-- Resolution Rises Most Ever After Planned Purchase of Axa's U.K. Life Unit
-- Kevin Crowley
-- 2010-06-30T09:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/resolution-rises-most-ever-after-planned-purchase-of-axa-s-u-k-life-unit.html

          
          
             Resolution Ltd. , the British buyout
firm founded by  Clive Cowdery , climbed the most on record in
London as its shares resumed trading following the agreement to
buy  Axa SA ’s U.K. life insurance division.  
 The stock climbed as much as 13.4 percent to 68.4 pence in
London trading, the most since its initial public offering in
December 2008. The Guernsey, Channel Islands-based firm today
published a  prospectus  for a 2.06 billion pound ($3.1 billion)
rights offer to fund the acquisition.  
 “Resolution is buying the right asset at the right
price,” said  Toby Langley , a London-based analyst at Sanford C
Bernstein Ltd. with an “outperform” rating on the stock.
“Investors were rather skeptical of the Resolution project, but
the Axa transaction is evidence that the plan is progressing as
expected.”  
 Resolution will be half way through its plan to buy and
merge as many as four U.K. life insurers by 2013 should
investors approve the rights offer at the company’s annual
general meeting in Guernsey next month. The insurer plans to pay
2.75 billion pounds for the Axa division after purchasing
Friends Provident Plc for 1.9 billion pounds last year.  
 Resolution rose 4.2 pence, or 7 percent, to 64.5 pence at
10:25 a.m. in London trading, valuing the firm at about 1.6
billion pounds.  
 The shares were suspended from trading on June 14, pending
the publication of the rights-offer prospectus. Resolution
announced the terms of the Axa purchase and the rights offer on
June 24.  
 Resolution’s top 10  shareholders  have agreed to sub-
underwrite at least half of the shares sold in the rights offer,
Chief Executive Officer  John Tiner  said June 24.  
 Resolution Operations LLP, a subsidiary of the insurer run
by Cowdery, will receive a 4.5 million-pound fee for arranging
the financing for the transaction, the company said today in its
prospectus.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        