-- Romania's Leu Rises From All-Time Low Against Euro on IMF Loan Prospects
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-06-30T16:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/romania-s-leu-rises-from-all-time-low-against-euro-on-imf-loan-prospects.html

          
          
             Romania’s leu advanced from its
weakest level on speculation the International Monetary Fund may
give the country more funding and that the central bank will
raise interest rates after saying it expected faster inflation.  
 The leu appreciated as much as 0.8 percent versus the euro
and traded 0.5 percent higher at 4.3646 per euro at 6:40 p.m. in
Bucharest, ending a five-day selloff. It was the second-biggest
gain among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
after Hungary’s forint. The main  BET  equity index added 2.8
percent, the most since June 17, to close at 4,743.86, after a
four-day slide. The gauge lost 20 percent this quarter.  
 The IMF board on July 2 will discuss Romania’s progress in
meeting the terms of its bailout and the next disbursement of
about 900 million euros ($1.1 billion), the lender said late
yesterday. The government has shown “strong commitment” to
meeting the IMF-mandated budget-deficit targets, it said.  
 The IMF statement is “very supportive for the leu, which
we see as having depreciated too far versus the euro,”  Simon Quijano-Evans , head of emerging-market research at Credit
Agricole Cheuvreux in Vienna, wrote in a report today. An
approval of the next payment “would provide Romania with more
than 10 months of import cover,” he said.  
 The European Union’s second-poorest country, which is
relying on 20 billion euros of loans from the IMF and the EU to
stay afloat, increased the value-added tax to 24 percent from 19
percent on June 26 to plug a budget hole created when the
Constitutional Court threw out a proposal to cut pensions by 15
percent. The IMF delayed its review of the bailout program from
June 28, pending discussions on alternative measures.  
 Inflation  
 The leu held on to its gains after the central bank left
its key interest rate on hold at 6.25 percent. The tax increase
will likely “trigger a significant” temporary acceleration in
inflation, the bank said in a statement after the decision. It
will “act to limit” the effects of the tax and “firmly anchor
inflation expectations at low levels,” the bank said.  
 The Hungarian forint, the world’s worst-performing currency
this quarter, advanced 0.7 percent to 284.98 euros. It tumbled
2.9 percent in the previous six days, its longest series of
declines in 13 months, and dropped to its weakest-ever against
the Swiss franc yesterday. Poland’s zloty and the Czech koruna
advanced 0.4 percent against the euro today.  
 Polish, Hungarian and Romanian central banks may buy their
currencies to stop further selloffs because a large share of
loans are denominated in euros or Swiss francs, Copenhagen-based
analysts at Nordea Bank AB wrote in a report yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        