-- Romanian, Ukrainian Floods Leave 21 Dead, Force Evacuations From Homes
-- Daryna Krasnolutska
-- 2010-06-30T13:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/romania-rain-flooding-leave-20-dead-as-wrecked-houses-force-evacuations.html

          
          
             Heavy rain and flooding in Romania
and Ukraine have killed 21 people in the past week and forced
the evacuation of another 9,500, authorities in both former
communist countries said.  
 Heavy rains ruined seven bridges and house and damaged
1,250 kilometers of roads in western Ukraine, said First Deputy
Prime Minister  Andriy Klyuyev  today at a press conference in
Kiev. In Romania, flooding destroyed 206 houses and damaged 174
bridges and 47 roads, the government said in an e-mailed
statement from Bucharest.  
 The neighboring countries, which are struggling to get out
of recession because of the global financial crisis, rely on
bailout loans from the International Monetary Fund that limit
their ability to boost emergency spending.  
 “Flooding may push inflation higher,” ING Bank Romania
Chief Economist  Nicolaie Alexandru-Chidesciuc  wrote in an e-
mailed note to investors today. “Depending on how bad the
situation gets and given the VAT hike, we may see inflation
climbing significantly in Romania more than a year from now.”  
 Romania’s economy may contract more than 1 percent this
year after the government decided to increase a value-added tax
by 5 percentage points and cut public wages by 25 percent to
meet an IMF-mandated budget-deficit target.  
 Damage in Romania accounted for 0.6 percent of gross
domestic product and the government has requested aid from the
European Union, Interior Minister  Vasile Blaga  said in a
televised speech.  
 Rail Damage  
 In the western Ukrainian  region  of Chernivtsi, which
borders Romania, the railway lines will be fixed in two to three
days, said Klyuyev. Floods also cut power and natural gas in
four western and central regions of Ukraine, according the Kiev-
based Ministry for Emergency situations.  
 The decline in Romania’s gross domestic product “could be
quite bad” in the second half of the year because of flooding,
Chidesciuc wrote.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        