-- Romania's Central Bank Leaves Benchmark Interest Rate Unchanged at 6.25%
-- Irina Savu
-- 2010-06-30T13:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/romanian-central-bank-leaves-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged-at-6-25-.html

          
          
             Romania’s central bank left the
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged to contain inflation after the
government raised the value-added tax by 5 points.  
 The Bucharest-based  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  kept the
 monetary policy rate  at a record-low 6.25 percent. The  decision
was expected by seven out of eight economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg . One expected a quarter-point cut.  
 “The increased VAT will immediately trigger a significant
rise of consumer price levels and consequently a temporary pick-
up in inflation,” so the central bank “will act to limit the
second-round effects of this measures and firmly anchor
inflation expectations at low levels,” it said in a statement.  
 The government , relying on 20 billion euros ($24 billion)
in loans from the International Monetary Fund and the European
Union to finance its deficit, raised the VAT to 24 percent on
June 26 to plug a budget hole created when the Constitutional
Court threw out a proposal to cut pensions by 15 percent.  
 “It’s a balanced statement, which highlights the weakness
in the economy and at the same time acknowledges the upside
risks to headline inflation and increased risk aversion,” said
Raffaella Tenconi, chief economist at Wood & Co. in Prague. The
bank “is still signaling the desire to loosen monetary
conditions, but until the IMF program discussions are completed
and risk appetite improves,” it must keep a cautious stance.  
 ‘Wise’ Move  
 The leu appreciated as much as 0.8 percent versus the euro
on speculation the IMF may unlock more bailout funds for the
Balkan state and traded 0.4 percent higher at 4.3690 per euro at
4:39 p.m. in Bucharest, ending a five-day selloff. It was the
second-biggest gain of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, after Hungary’s forint. The main  BET  equity index
snapped a four-day slide, adding 2.2 percent to 4,743.86 from a
one-month low yesterday.  
 “A wise decision by the central bank -- at this point we
need to see more coordinated action between the bank and the
government,” Simon Quijano-Evans, head of emerging-market
research at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux in Vienna, wrote in a
note. “We should start to see the leu recover further.”  
 The bank left its minimum reserve requirements on foreign-
exchange deposits at 25 percent and requirements in lei at 15
percent, ended a five-month easing cycle and decided to ensure
firm management of banking system liquidity “to avoid excessive
exchange rate volatility” and boost lending.  
 The IMF board is expected to review Romania’s progress
under the bailout agreement on July 2, after postponing the
meeting from June 28, pending discussions on alternative
financing measures.  
 Progress Needed  
 The EU’s second-poorest country must show progress toward
meeting a deficit target of 6.8 percent of gross domestic
product to avoid a second freeze in payments. The Constitutional
Court said on June 25 that a plan to cut pensions was illegal,
though it upheld a 25 percent reduction in wages for public
workers, which was formally approved by Parliament yesterday.  
 The  inflation  rate, the central bank’s main target, rose in
April for the first time since January to 4.3 percent, as a
weaker currency drove up costs of imports.  
 The east European country’s economy, mired in the worst
recession in two decades, will probably contract at least 1
percent in 2010, more than previously forecast, Finance Minister
 Sebastian Vladescu  said yesterday. There will probably be
“higher inflation and a different exchange rate” because of
the increase in VAT, according to Vladescu, who declined to give
a figure because the ministry is still working on a new
forecast.  
 The IMF and the government estimate GDP will contract as
much as 0.5 percent this year after shrinking a record 7.1
percent in 2009. The central bank forecasts year-end inflation
will be 3.7 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        