-- Alex Strengthens Into Category 2 Hurricane in Gulf of Mexico
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-06-30T23:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/tropical-storm-alex-upgraded-to-hurricane-with-winds-of-75-miles-an-hour.html

          
          
             Hurricane Alex grew into a Category
2 storm as it bore down on the Texas-Mexico coast, heading for
an overnight landfall with heavy rains and winds that have shut
down one-fourth of the Gulf of Mexico’s crude oil production.  
 Eight rigs and 74 production platforms were evacuated
because of the storm, the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management,
Regulation and Enforcement  said in a statement on its website.
Almost 421,000 barrels of daily oil output were shut-in, or 26
percent of Gulf production, along with 919 million cubic feet of
natural-gas output, or 14 percent.  
 High seas also disrupted efforts to clean up the BP Plc oil
spill, while the Federal Emergency Management Agency set up
staging grounds near San Antonio to ferry supplies to those in
the storm’s path.  
 “Alex is a large hurricane, and both hurricane- and
tropical storm-force winds extend a great distance from the
center,” a  National Hurricane Center  bulletin said. “Only a
small deviation to the north of the track will bring hurricane-
force winds to the southern Texas coast.”  
 The hurricane’s maximum winds grew to 100 miles (160
kilometers) per hour, up from 80 mph earlier today, and it
turned west at 12 mph, the center reported at about 6 p.m.
Houston time. The storm is 105 miles south of Brownsville,
Texas.  
 A Category 2 storm is the second-weakest on the five-step
Saffir-Simpson scale.  
 Pelting Coast  
 Hurricane-strength winds of at least 74 mph reach out 70
miles from the storm’s eye. Tropical storm-force winds of at
least 39 mph extend 205 miles from the core, about the distance
from New York City to Boston, according to the hurricane center.
Alex’s rains began pelting the Texas coast by midday.  
 A slight wobble in Alex’s path and hurricane-force winds
would hit Brownsville, said  Dennis Feltgen , a hurricane center
spokesman.  
 “They don’t always move in a straight line; it is like a
spinning top,” Feltgen said by telephone.  
 The storm’s track keeps it away from a direct hit on the
oil slick from the damaged BP well. However, Alex’s circulation
is so large it created waves as high as 10 feet in the spill
area, along with severe thunderstorms and heavy rain, Coast
Guard Rear Admiral Paul Zukunft said at a news conference today.  
 The rough seas were enough to keep the 510 oil skimmers out
of the area and prevent work by a relief ship designed to suck
up 25,000 barrels of oil per day, he said. The ship won’t be
able to start working until at least July 7.  
 Louisiana Hit  
 It has also torn oil booms and sent streamers of oil into
parts of the Louisiana coast that have been spared until now,
Zukunft said.  
 The weather will start to become calmer the day after
tomorrow, said Brian LaMarre, a National Weather Service
meteorologist in Slidell, Louisiana.  
 “As Alex moves into Mexico, it is going to take a lot of
the tropical moisture with it, which will be good news because
they can get back to some of their routine operations,” LaMarre
said by telephone.  
 The  Louisiana Offshore Oil Port , which serves tankers in
deep water off eastern Louisiana, halted offloading yesterday
because of rough seas,  Barb Hestermann , a port spokeswoman, said
in a telephone interview. Deliveries are being made to customers
from storage and there are no supply disruptions, she said.  
 The Matagorda ship channel and port in Texas also closed
because of Alex, said David Adrian, an officer with the
Matagorda Bay Pilots. Pilots stopped boarding ships in Houston,
according to the U.S. Coast Guard.  
 Rough Seas  
 Operations for loading oil onto smaller ships from large
tankers near Galveston, Texas, and the Southwest Pass, the main
deepwater entrance to the Mississippi River, were suspended
because of rough seas, according to  Mike Reardon , a Houston-
based vice president at freight derivatives broker Imarex.  
 Alex is expected to come ashore late tonight or early
tomorrow in the northeastern Mexico-southern Texas border area.
Tornado warnings were issued for the area around Corpus Christi
and Raymondville, Texas, according to the weather service.  
 “A dangerous storm tide will raise water levels by as much
as 4 to 6 feet above ground level along the immediate coast to
the north of where the center makes landfall,” according to the
hurricane center advisory. “The surge could penetrate inland as
far as several miles from the shore.”  
 The storm is expected to drop as much as 12 inches of rain
in northeastern Mexico and southern Texas. Some areas may
receive 20 inches of rain, the hurricane center said.  
 Emergency Preparations  
 Cities in the Mexican state of Tamaulipas were urged to
prepare shelters as needed and consider evacuating islands in
the storm’s path, according to a statement by the interior
ministry. The storm is being blamed for at least 13 deaths in
Central America.  
 FEMA prepared to offer support for storm victims from a
staging area outside San Antonio, including more than 1.1
million meals, 400,000 liters of water, 41,000 tarps and 100
generators, as well as cots, blankets and personal kits.  
 Yesterday, President  Barack Obama  declared an emergency in
Texas, which allows the state to receive federal aid in dealing
with Alex. Texas Governor  Rick Perry  declared 19 counties a
disaster area to free up resources and activated 2,500 National
Guard troops, eight helicopters and three C-130 transport
planes.  
 Alex is the  earliest  Atlantic hurricane since Allison
formed June 3, 1995, the Hurricane Center said. Last year,  Bill 
became the season’s first hurricane on Aug. 15. The Atlantic
storm season runs from June 1 through Nov. 30.  
 The Gulf Coast is home to 43 percent of operable U.S.
refining capacity, according to the  Energy Department . Gulf
Coast refiners in August and September 2008 lost about 20
percent of production capacity due to hurricanes Ike and Gustav.  
 The Gulf of Mexico is home to about 31 percent of U.S. oil
output, 10 percent of its natural gas production and seven of
the 10 busiest ports.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Hurricane Alex is seen as it closes in to land near the Mexico-Texas border on June 29, as seen from space of the Gulf of Mexico. Source: NOAA via Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
