-- Rubber Supply to Stay Tight Next Year on Lower Yields, Slow Output Growth
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-09-21T05:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/rubber-supply-tightness-china-demand-to-support-prices-association-says.html
Natural rubber will remain in
tight supply next year as yields from aging trees decline and
output growth slows, said  the Association of Natural Rubber
Producing Countries .  “While supply remains tight throughout this year, the
possibility of change is remote in 2011 also,” Jom Jacob, the
group’s senior economist, said in a monthly statement. The
market remains “bullish” as supplies have been disrupted by
rains in Thailand and Indonesia, the top two producers, said
the group.  Rubber advanced to the highest level in almost five months
today amid expectations that the global market is set for the
worst shortage in four years next year as weather constrains
supply and demand keeps expanding.  “Tight supply amid growing demand for tires will fuel
rubber prices further,” Umaporn Thepnuan, senior marketing
official at Future Agri Trade Co., said by phone from Bangkok.
Rainfall in southern Thailand, the country’s main production
area, may continue, which will probably cut supply, she said.  Production in Thailand may decline 3.9 percent in the
third and fourth quarter, compared with the same period last
year, the producers group said. Thai output tumbled 23 percent
in July because of extended wintering and rains, the group said.
The low-production period known as wintering takes place from
February to April, when rubber trees shed leaves and latex
output slows.  Thailand may produce 3.28 million metric tons of natural
rubber this year, up from 3.16 million tons last year, the
group said. Indonesia may produce 2.59 million tons, up from
2.44 million tons, it said. The forecast may be revised,
depending on the situation in the two countries, Jacob said.  Demand Slow  Demand from China, India and Malaysia slowed down in the
July-to-August period from the first quarter, reducing imports
from the three countries, which account for 47 percent of
global demand for natural rubber, the group said.  Consumption of natural rubber in China, including the
premium grade of compound rubber, is expected to increase 4.3
percent in the third quarter, compared with growth of 28
percent in the first quarter, it said.  Demand growth in India will probably slow to 1 percent in
the July-to-September period, from 12.2 percent in the first
quarter, the group said.  The association represents Cambodia, China, India,
Indonesia, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Singapore,
Sri Lanka, Thailand and Vietnam.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  