-- Trump Starts Building Scottish Golf Resort as `Slum' Views May Slow Hotel
-- Peter Woodifield
-- 2010-06-30T13:57:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/trump-starts-building-scottish-golf-resort-as-slum-views-may-slow-hotel.html

          
          
             Donald Trump ’s vision of building
the world’s best golf course may begin to take shape tomorrow
when the bulldozers begin work in northeast Scotland.  
 The New York real estate entrepreneur may still face delays
in starting construction of the associated hotel and vacation
homes that underpin the economics of the 750 million-pound
($1.12 billion) project. He hasn’t resolved efforts to buy some
properties next to his 1,400-acre (567-hectare) Menie Estate,
north of Aberdeen.  
 “We are not about to build a hotel that looks down on a
slum,”  George Sorial , Trump’s executive in charge of the
project, said in an interview today. “Someone has to step up
and make a decision. It is a question for the Scottish
government and  Aberdeenshire Council .”  
 Trump, whose mother is Scottish, first identified the
coastal site as a potential golf resort in 2005 and has battled
for consent to build two courses, a 450-bed five-star hotel, 500
homes and 950 short-term rental apartments.  
 Yesterday, Aberdeenshire Council’s local planning committee
approved the detailed proposals for the main golf course and
facilities including a driving range and putting green. The
application  passed  by a vote of 8-1, the municipality said on
its website. The committee received 10 written objections,
Sorial said.  
 “It was a tremendous feeling of victory, not only for us
but also for the people of northeast Scotland who have supported
us,” he said.  
 Hotel Consent  
 Construction is scheduled to take 18 months and the course
will probably open in the second quarter of 2012, Sorial said.
Trump isn’t likely to start building the hotel before the course
is completed. He still needs detailed consent for the hotel,
houses and apartments.  
 Trump, 64, has faced objections to his efforts to acquire a
total of six properties that he originally said he didn’t need.
Molly Forbes and David Milne, whose homes he wants to buy, have
protested the possible use of compulsory purchase orders to
force them to move.  
 “These powers have been used for centuries all over the
world,” Sorial said. “We would be happy that it doesn’t get to
that point, but I don’t think anybody would build a hotel
overlooking a derelict slum.”  
 The Scottish government intervened in 2007 after
councillors rejected the proposal. Following a public inquiry,
the government approved it in principal in November 2008 after
planning inspectors attached 40 conditions.  
 Legal Challenge  
 Protesters may not be able to afford a legal challenge to
determine whether the municipality was entitled to grant consent
yesterday while an existing case brought by 85-year-old Forbes
is still pending, Milne said in an interview.  
 “In which case, a unique site will have been stolen from
the local people by an incompetent council and a greedy
developer,” he said. Milne said he has had no contact with the
Trump Organization since Sept. 1, when he was offered 235,000
pounds for his four-bedroom house.  
 Opponents faulted Trump’s intentions to build part of the
course on a stretch of sand dunes in a nature reserve that
government environmental advisers said should be protected.  
 The dunes, in an area designated a site of special
scientific interest, represent an unusual form of geomorphology.
They move northwards at an average of a few yards a year.  
 Trump will plant a stretch of sand with marram grass to
keep the dunes from moving onto the course.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        