-- Russia Leaves Main Interest Rates Unchanged, Ends Monetary Easing Cycle
-- Maria Levitov
-- 2010-06-30T10:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/russia-leaves-main-interest-rates-unchanged-ends-monetary-easing-cycle.html

          
          
             Russia’s  central bank  left its main
interest rates unchanged today, ending a 14-month easing cycle
as the economic recovery gathers speed and inflation slows.  
 Bank Rossii kept the  refinancing rate  at a record low 7.75
percent, it said on its website today, as forecast by all 15
economists in a Bloomberg survey. It also left the repurchase
rate charged on one- and seven-day loans unchanged at 6.75
percent. The regulator last trimmed rates on May 31.  
 “The main trends in economic activity, monetary and credit
spheres remain the same,” the bank said in a  statement .
“Industrial activity, employment and domestic demand” are
recovering. “The continued gradual recovery of bank lending,
which began in March, and decreasing interest rates on loans to
the real sector are positive factors.”  
 The  economy  may expand 7 percent this year, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. Chief Global Economist Jim O’Neill said on June 19,
compared with the government’s 4 percent forecast. Higher
commodity prices and domestic demand are helping the world’s
biggest energy exporter recover from last year’s 7.9 percent
slump, the biggest on record.  Inflation  this year will slow to
between 5.5 percent and 6.5 percent, the government estimates.  
 Inflation risks are “at an acceptable level” and the
regulator will “likely keep interest rates unchanged in the
coming months,” according to the statement. The inflation rate
remained at 6 percent in May, the lowest level in 12 years.  
 No Rush  
 “Given the benign inflation dynamics, we expect the
central bank not to rush to tighten policy, although the bank
would likely continue to withdraw anti-crisis support measure to
the banking sector,” Anna Zadornova, a London-based economist
at Goldman Sachs, said by e-mail today.  
 Russian stocks erased gains after the decision and the
ruble remained little changed. The Micex Index slipped than 0.5
percent to 1,316.29 as of 2:40 p.m. in Moscow, after rising as
much as 0.4 percent. The ruble traded at 31.1900 per dollar,
from 31.2675 yesterday.  
 “All the necessary conditions for a swifter economic
recovery are emerging,” Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said at a
Cabinet meeting on June 2. The 14 rate cuts in as many months
helped boost lending, he said.  
 Lending Growth  
 Corporate lending grew at the fastest pace this year in May
as the economic recovery gained momentum, central bank data
show. Corporate loans rose 1.9 percent, compared with 0.9
percent in the previous month, Bank Rossii said in a report on
its website today. Retail loans advanced 1.2 percent in May,
compared with 1 percent the month before, it said. Retail
deposits increased 1.7 percent, according to the report.  
 “The refinancing rate won’t have a significant influence
because it is lowered to increase liquidity on the market,”
Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said on June 19. “There is
currently a lot of liquidity. The key, fundamental factors for
lending are industry risks, the potential for growth.”  
 There is enough liquidity in the system as banks have 2
trillion rubles ($64 billion) of liquid assets, half of which is
held in central bank bonds, Bank Rossii’s First Deputy Chairman
 Alexei Ulyukayev  said yesterday.  
 Capital Flows  
 Russian lending rates are “too low” and “do not reflect
the real risks” in the economy,  German Gref , chief executive
officer of OAO Sberbank, the country’s biggest bank, said on
June 1. Still, Sberbank doesn’t have immediate plans to raise
the interest rates it offers on loans, according to Gref.  
 “Rates at the current level don’t create significant
preconditions for capital inflow,” the central bank said in a
statement last month.  
 Net capital inflow reached $10 billion in March through May
and probably continued in June, Ulyukayev said. There will be no
net capital inflow for the year as a whole, after a $52.4
billion outflow last year, according to government estimates.  
 Bank Rossii’s “commitment” to a flexible exchange rate
and free capital movement means inflows will make the ruble’s
appreciation “inevitable,” ING Groep NV analyst Stanislav
Ponomarenko said last month. The central bank has reduced the
extent to which it steers the ruble to lessen the effects of
currency moves on producers.  
 Ruble Policy  
 While the bank will continue to intervene on currency
markets to “smooth out the volatility” of the ruble, “we will
not set a target for the ruble’s nominal or real exchange
rate,” Ulyukayev said yesterday.  
 The ruble may strengthen to 28 versus the dollar by the end
of 2012 and maintain a “trend toward appreciation” in the next
three years, according to a government report this month. The
ruble may gain 20 percent in the next three years against the
currencies of Russia’s major trading partners with the effects
of inflation stripped out, the report said.  
 The ruble’s appreciation “is a real problem for the
Russian economy, but it’s still inevitable,” Deputy Finance
Minister Dmitry Pankin said in an interview in London on June
24. “Appreciation will depend on the oil price. If the oil
price is higher, there will be more pressure on ruble
appreciation.”  
 Oil Revenue  
 Russia, which earns about $550 million from oil exports
every day, will raise about $40 billion more in oil taxes for
the budget than the government previously estimated, according
to UralSib Financial Corp. calculations. The deficit is set to
narrow to 5.4 percent of gross domestic product this year from
5.9 percent in 2009, the first shortfall in a decade.  
 Of the other BRIC countries, Brazil’s central bank on April
28 became the first in Latin America to increase borrowing costs
in more than a year, raising the Selic rate to 9.5 percent from
8.75 percent. China and India have increased reserve
requirements for banks to avoid stoking unsustainable lending.  
 Russia suffered a deeper recession than Brazil last year.
That compares with China’s growth of about 9 percent and India’s
7.2 percent.  
 Russia must gradually withdraw its anti-crisis measures to
prevent “bubbles” from forming in the economy, Putin said at a
meeting in the Moscow region today. His comments echoed
yesterday’s statements by Ulyukayev, who said the central bank
may stop extending unsecured loans by the end of this year
because lenders have enough liquidity.  
 Bank Rossii will hold the next meeting on rates in July, it
said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        