-- Russian Bank $2.5 Billion Bond Sales Most Since 2008 on Economic Recovery
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-01T15:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/russian-bank-2-5-billion-bond-sales-most-since-2008-on-economic-recovery.html

          
          
             Russian companies, led by  OAO
Sberbank  and Vnesheconombank, are borrowing as much as $2.5
billion in the international bond market for the first time in
two years. The sales reflect increasing confidence in the
economy, as growth accelerates in the second half of the year.  
 “The overall story in Russia is that loan books are
growing quicker than maybe expected,” said  Robert Whichello ,
co-head of the global syndicate business in London at BNP
Paribas SA, France’s biggest bank. “We’ve got a period of
relative calm and issuers are looking to take advantage of
that.”  
 Sberbank , Russia’s biggest lender with about $248 billion
of assets, sold $1 billion of five-year debt yesterday.
 Vnesheconombank , the government’s development bank, is selling
the same amount in 10-year notes today, according to two people
with knowledge of the sale.  OAO TransCreditBank , the lending
unit of Russia’s rail monopoly, may sell up to $500 million of
five-year debt, the company’s president said. The total is the
most for a week since June 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Banks are taking advantage of yields near one-month lows to
revive corporate sales from Russia, where the government
returned to international markets in April for the first time
since defaulting on $40 billion of debt in 1998. Rising bank
deposits and credit are fueling an economic expansion that
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says may reach 7 percent this year
after the gross domestic product contracted in 2009 by the most
since the Soviet Union’s 1991 collapse.  
 Yields Fall  
 Emerging nations including Russia may lure investors who
want to shift away from holdings in indebted European countries,
Whichello said. Greece, Portugal and Spain had their credit
ratings downgraded this year on concern they will struggle to
fund their budget deficits.  
 Yields  on Russian corporate bonds dropped to 6.73 percent
yesterday from this year’s high of 7.35 percent on May 25,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Corporate EMBI Russia Index.  
 Sberbank’s 5.499 percent notes were priced to yield 3.69
percentage points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries,
Bloomberg data show. Vnesheconombank’s notes will be priced to 
yield 4 percentage points more than U.S. Treasuries, according
to two people with knowledge of the sale.  
 Russia’s economy expanded 2.9 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier. President  Dmitry Medvedev  said at the
annual St. Petersburg International Economic Forum last month
that the economy is recovering with “minimal” sovereign debt,
growing foreign-exchange reserves and slowing inflation.  
 Default Swaps  
 Credit-default swaps linked to Russian debt fell 2 basis
points to 196 yesterday. The five-year contracts that investors
use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or speculate on
creditworthiness pay the buyer face value if a borrower reneges
on its debt.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian sovereign
debt rather than U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points to 2.88
percentage points at 4:13 p. m. in London, according to the
JPMorgan EMBI+ Index. The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in
2020 rose one basis point to 5.47 percent.  
 The ruble gained 0.2 percent against the dollar to 31.1950
today, after dropping 1.2 percent last month. Investors pared
bets that the ruble will weaken further, with non-deliverable
forwards showing the currency at 31.3200 per dollar in three
months compared with an NDF of 31.4545 yesterday. The contracts
are a guide to expectations of currency movements as they allow
foreign investors and companies to fix the exchange rate at a
particular level in the future.  
 New Benchmark  
 Russian companies issued about $1.5 billion of
international bonds in the two months after the government’s
$5.5 billion debt sale in April, which Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said would help create a new benchmark 12 years after the
government’s default. Company debt sales were limited by concern
Europe’s debt crisis will worsen and erode demand for riskier
assets.  
 Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and
Societe Generale SA are managing Vnesheconombank’s sale of loan
participation notes, according to a banker involved in the
transaction. Sberbank hired DZ Bank AG, JPMorgan and Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc for its sale, two people with knowledge of
the transaction said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        