-- Salazar May Give Congress More Details on Drill Ban
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-06-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/salazar-may-provide-more-details-on-new-drill-ban-at-congressional-session.html

          
          
             U.S. Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar , who has promised a new ban on deep-water oil drilling
after an initial one was ruled illegal, has hinted what a
revised moratorium might look like and may provide more details
when questioned by members of Congress today.  
 In any new ban, Salazar must reconfigure the original
moratorium to address legal flaws cited by U.S. District Judge
 Martin Feldman  in a June 22 ruling. Alternatively, he might
impose regulations that effectively stop deep-water drilling
without a formal prohibition, legal experts said.  
 “Feldman’s going to have a problem” with any broadly
based, retooled government moratorium, said  Anthony Sabino , a
professor at St. John’s University in New York who specializes
in complex litigation and oil-and-gas law. “They have to cut it
back big time,” he said.  
 Salazar is scheduled to appear before the House Natural
Resources Committee on the reorganization of the former Minerals
Management Service, which regulates drilling safety. The agency
was  renamed  the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation
and Enforcement this month. Salazar may be asked about his plans
for a new ban as he was on June 23, the last time he testified
on the same topic.  
 President  Barack Obama  temporarily halted all drilling in
waters deeper than 500 feet (152.4 meters) on May 27 to give a
presidential commission time to study improvements in the safety
of offshore operations. The six-month moratorium was imposed in
response to the worst oil spill in U.S. history, caused by the
sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf of Mexico off
the Louisiana coast in April.  
 Irreparable Harm  
 Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and other offshore service
and supply companies on June 7 sued U.S. regulators, including
Salazar, seeking to lift the ban. The companies argued that they
would suffer irreparable economic harm from the suspension of
drilling.  
 Feldman, who is based in New Orleans, found the original
ban was illegal because it was “arbitrary” and “capricious.”
He said the government failed to explain why 500 feet of water
was the threshold for banned drilling, didn’t consider
alternatives, didn’t give reasons to support the scope of the
moratorium, and failed to justify the ban’s six-month time
limit.  
 Feldman ruled that there wasn’t a strong enough connection
between the moratorium and the drilling-safety recommendations
it was based on. Salazar could base a second ban on different
criteria, according to energy law professor  Jack Williams , of
Georgia State University in Atlanta.  
 ‘Completely Tapped’  
 Government lawyers repeatedly cited the industry’s
inadequate ability to respond to the current oil spill, much
less a second one, in court filings and at hearings. Still, the
U.S. didn’t bring up that point in documents supporting the
original moratorium.  
 “If they can prove the U.S. and the industry are
completely tapped beyond their capacity to respond, that might
be something” Salazar could use to justify a new suspension,
Williams said.  
 Salazar must proceed cautiously in revising drilling
restrictions because even a “mild, toned-down version” may
trigger more litigation from affected drilling companies, as
well as censure from Feldman, Sabino said.  
 A new ban, Salazar said in congressional testimony on June
23, might take into consideration the differences between
developmental drilling in reservoirs where pressures are known
and exploratory drilling into formations “where you don’t know
as a company what it is you are drilling in.”  
 Deep-Water Defined  
 Only five of the 33 wells affected by the original ban are
exploratory wells, Feldman said. The judge also noted that the
agency’s own safety report preceding the moratorium defined
“deep-water” as 1,000 feet or more, double the 500-foot
trigger favored by Salazar.  
 “It was our decision to move forward with allowing shallow
water drilling to continue because at the 500-foot level, they
can still be anchored to the bottom,” Salazar testified June
23, in defense of the restriction to shallower depths. “It’s
still a place where the wellhead can be reached by divers.”  
 Salazar may delay resumption of deep-water drilling by
requiring companies to get new permits for existing wells or to
do new environmental impact statements, Williams said. Many
current deep-water wells were approved without such impact
statements being filed, he said.  
 This would “slow the industry down without necessarily
killing it,” Williams said.  
 The U.S. also may be able to accomplish its goals by
beefing up inspections, Sabino said.  
 More Inspectors  
 “The government could tell the companies, ‘You folks can
drill, but we’re sending out more inspectors,” he said. “How
many safety inspectors and how long it takes to make an
inspection is under the discretion of the federal agencies.”  
 If Salazar orders a new round of heightened safety
inspections, which keeps drilling rigs idle without imposing a
blanket ban, companies will have a difficult time opposing the
plan in court, said  Carl Tobias , professor of law at the
University of Richmond in Virginia.  
 “The companies might challenge it, but the government
could argue that was in line with what the judge was saying,”
Tobias said.  
 Feldman has denied a U.S. request to leave the drilling ban
in place while regulators appeal. The U.S. Court of Appeals in
New Orleans yesterday granted an expedited hearing on Salazar’s
request to stay Feldman’s order overthrowing the ban. The court
will hear the matter on July 8.  
 Windfall Tax  
 If Salazar wants to sidestep the legal pitfalls of a new
ban altogether, he could discourage deep-water drilling by
encouraging Congress “to tax the hell out of all that activity
to make it economically unfeasible,” Williams said.  
 “Something like a windfall profits tax on that part of the
Gulf would have the same effect as a moratorium and would be a
more traditional government solution,” Williams said.  
 Hornbeck and the other offshore oil-service companies
already have filed a motion accusing Salazar of a “de facto”
extension of the ban through his public statements following
Feldman’s June 22 ruling. Drillers are afraid to incur the
expense of starting back up, for fear they will have to stop
again, Williams said.  
 Until Salazar spells out the new drilling rules, the U.S.
is getting a virtual ban that can’t be legally challenged,
Williams said. “That is absolutely what the government is
doing,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ken Salazar, U.S. secretary of the interior, testifies at a Senate Appropriations subcommittee hearing in Washington. Photographer: Jay Westcott/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 -- Colin McLean, managing director at SVM Asset Management Ltd., talks about the likelihood that BP Plc will be forced to sell assets and the future of Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward.
     McLean, whose company sold the last of its BP shares this month, speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
