-- Sanofi Agrees to Acquire Targegen of U.S. to Add Blood Cancer Treatments
-- Phil Serafino
-- 2010-06-30T09:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/sanofi-agrees-to-acquire-targegen-of-u-s-to-add-blood-cancer-treatments.html

          
          
             Sanofi-Aventis SA , France’s largest
drugmaker, agreed to buy closely held  TargeGen Inc.  to add
treatments for certain forms of leukemia and blood disorders.  
 Sanofi will pay $75 million at the closing of the purchase,
which is expected in the third quarter, the Paris-based company
said in an e-mailed statement today. Additional payments tied to
reaching development goals on TargeGen’s lead product may bring
the total purchase price to $560 million, Sanofi said.  
 The purchase gives Sanofi an experimental treatment for
 myelofibrosis , a bone marrow disorder that disrupts the body’s
production of blood cells, causing fatigue and an enlargement of
the spleen. TargeGen, based in San Diego, completed early-stage
patient studies last year of the drug, known as TG101348, and
more trials are planned for this year, Sanofi said.  
 “The acquisition of TargeGen represents a further
significant step to increase our engagement in the field of
hematological malignancies,”  Marc Cluzel , Sanofi’s executive
vice president of research and development, said in the
statement.  
 TargeGen’s  owners  include five investment firms -- Forward
Ventures, Enterprise Partners Venture Capital, Chicago Growth
Partners, VantagePoint Venture Partners and BB Biotech Ventures.  
 Enzyme’s Effects  
 TG101348 aims to block the effects of an enzyme known as
Janus kinase 2, Sanofi said. Mutations in the enzyme can lead to
myelofibrosis, according to the company.  
 Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  has been
acquiring experimental drugs in part because the company’s labs
haven’t been bringing new products to market fast enough to
offset sales being lost to competition from generic products.
Sanofi did two to three  acquisitions  a month in 2009, and
probably will do the same in 2010, he said in February.  
 With the TargeGen purchase, Sanofi has added about 20
projects to its cancer pipeline in the past year. The company
this month bought rights to compounds from Ascenta Therapeutics
that may make cancer medicines more effective in a deal worth as
much as $398 million. A year ago, Sanofi paid $500 million for
BiPar Sciences Inc., developer of a treatment for breast and
lung tumors. The BiPar drug has had “stunning” results in a
human trial, Viehbacher said this month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        