-- Santander Hunts for Takeovers Amid Stress Tests as Botin Reigns in Spain
-- Charles Penty
-- 2010-06-30T22:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/santander-hunts-for-takeovers-amid-stress-tests-as-botin-reigns-in-spain.html

          
          
             In his almost quarter-century as
chairman,  Emilio Botín  has built Banco Santander into the euro
region’s most valuable bank, in part by engineering more than
$70 billion of  acquisitions .  
 Now he’s pursuing more deals, even as global investors shun
Spanish banks, concerned that the country will struggle to
control its budget deficit, which ballooned to 11.2 percent of
gross domestic product last year, Bloomberg Businessweek
reported in its July 5 issue.  
 The 153-year-old institution is bidding for the German
consumer unit of Sweden’s SEB AB and 300 U.K. branches of Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc. In June it agreed to buy back
almost a quarter of its Mexican unit from  Bank of America Corp. 
for $2.5 billion, as well as purchase $3.2 billion of auto loans
from  Citigroup Inc.   
 “Why shouldn’t they continue to conduct business as usual
if opportunities arise and they don’t think they have any issues
with solvency?” asks  Kevin Lilley , who manages about
$1.5 billion in Continental European shares, including
Santander, at Royal London Asset Management.  
 Santander navigated the financial crisis without an
unprofitable quarter after avoiding U.S. subprime debt. As well
as diversifying into markets beyond Spain, the bank stuck to a
basic business model that has it earning about 70 percent of its
profit from retail operations. At the same time, Bank of Spain
regulations meant Santander and other Spanish lenders had to
build up reserves in good times to cover future losses.  
 Botín, 75, told shareholders in June that the bank will
earn about as much in 2010 as it did in 2009, when  profit 
totaled $10.9 billion. Botín and other Santander executives
wouldn’t comment for this story.  
 Stress Tests  
 The stress tests being conducted on European banks may
provide further evidence of Santander’s solid position. “I’m
confident Santander will fare very well in the stress tests,”
says  Daragh Quinn , an analyst at Nomura International in Madrid,
“especially bearing in mind that only a third of its loan book
is in Spain.”  
 Juan Inciarte , Santander’s head of strategy, said at a
seminar in Madrid that growth and diversification are “in the
DNA” of the bank. It was founded in 1857 in the northern
Spanish port of the same name to finance trade with Latin
America.  
 Under Botín, the scion of a dynasty that’s helped run the
bank for 115 years, Santander has grown from the sixth-largest
lender in Spain, with 700,000 clients, to a company with
92 million customers and the  biggest market value  of any bank in
the 16 nations sharing the euro.  
 Expansion  
 Botín led the expansion by buying lenders in Brazil and the
U.K. and stretching Santander’s reach across nine main markets.
That breadth helped it weather Spain’s economic slump. Brazil
will contribute more to Santander’s profit than Spain for the
first time this year, Botín told shareholders on June 11.  
 Among deals under consideration, Santander is trying to
resurrect talks to combine its Sovereign unit, a retail bank in
the U.S., with  M&T Bank Corp. , also a regional American lender,
after negotiations collapsed in May, three people familiar with
the situation said. Joining the businesses would create a lender
with about $140 billion in assets and 1,470 branches in the
Northeastern U.S.  
 The bank says it doesn’t make purchases simply to expand
its empire. “The strategic and financial criteria for
acquisitions mean that Santander only carries out a transaction
when it is sure it will create value for shareholders,” said a
Santander spokesman who declined to be identified, in keeping
with company policy.  
 Making Acquisitions  
 “Santander is making bolt-on acquisitions in markets it
knows, and that’s exactly what a big and well-capitalized bank
should be doing when there are opportunities,” said  Arturo de Frias , an analyst at Evolution Securities in London, who rates
the bank a buy.  
 The bank has taken steps to increase its market share at
home. It added $36.6 billion in  deposits  this year by offering
Spanish customers an annual interest rate of 4 percent, well
above what competitors were paying.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria , the country’s second-largest bank, reported a
6.9 percent decline in its deposit base in Spain and Portugal in
the first quarter.  
 “Santander clearly took the view that (other banks) would
chase this deposit funding and they would get in there first,”
said  Claire Kane , an analyst at MF Global in London, who rates
Santander a buy.  
 The bank hasn’t been immune to investors’ concerns about
Spain’s economy and finances: Its stock has dropped 27 percent
since the beginning of the year. That may make it harder to
finance acquisitions with equity, the currency it has used to
buy banks, including the U.K.’s Abbey National in 2004.  
 As for Botín, there’s no sign he’ll be stepping aside
anytime soon: He took over when his father resigned as chairman
in 1986, at the age of 83. His eldest daughter,  Ana Patricia Botín , 49, who runs Banco Español de Crédito, a Spanish consumer
bank owned by Santander, has been mentioned as a possible
successor.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Emilio Botin, chairman of Grupo Santander, speaks at a news conference at the company's headquarters in Madrid. Photographer: Denis Doyle/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
