-- HSBC Overtaking CIMB as Top Underwriter of Sukuk Sales: Islamic Finance
-- Khalid Qayum
-- 2010-06-30T10:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/hsbc-overtaking-cimb-as-top-underwriter-of-sukuk-sales-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             HSBC Holdings Plc  is overtaking CIMB
Group Holdings Bhd. as the top underwriter of Islamic bonds as
sales from the Gulf pick up and corporate issuance from
Malaysia, the biggest market for the debt, declines.  
 HSBC, Europe’s biggest lender by market value, arranged
$1.6 billion of global sukuk so far in 2010, about 25 percent of
the total, led by Saudi Electricity Co.’s issuance in May,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. CIMB Group, Malaysia’s
second-largest banking group, led $1.4 billion of sales of debt
that complies with the religion’s ban on interest. Last year,
CIMB was the top underwriter, managing $4.4 billion of
offerings.  
 “The origin of the issuer may have an impact on the
decision to hire which underwriter,” Azrul  Azwar Ahmad Tajudin ,
chief economist at Bank Islam Malaysia Bhd., the country’s
oldest Shariah-compliant bank, said in an interview in Kuala
Lumpur yesterday. “If the issuance amount is huge, issuers may
have some level of comfort with a foreign bank.”  
 Sales of Malaysian ringgit-denominated sukuk slumped 44
percent to 9.4 billion ringgit ($2.9 billion) so far this year
as companies delayed infrastructure projects after the economy
slipped into recession in 2009. The government began a 230
billion ringgit, five-year development plan on June 10, which
may revive offerings of Islamic bonds, according to Malaysian
rating company RAM Holdings Bhd.  
 Global Sales  
 Gulf issuers sold $2.5 billion of Islamic notes in the
first half of the year, down 13 percent from a year earlier,
Bloomberg data show. Issuers from the Middle East may sell more
than $10 billion of bonds in the remainder of the year to
refinance debt and fund projects, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Malaysian companies may sell as much as $5.2 billion.  
 Global sales of sukuk fell 23 percent to $6.48 billion so
far this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance
totaled $20.2 billion last year, up from $14.1 billion in 2008.  
 “We’re a dominant player in the sukuk market” because of
our major presence in markets like Dubai and Malaysia,  Mukhtar Hussain , chief executive officer of HSBC Amanah, the Islamic
banking unit of HSBC, said in an interview in Kuala Lumpur
yesterday.  
 The  difference  between the average yields on sukuk and the
London interbank offered rate widened 10 basis points yesterday,
or 0.1 percentage point, to 443. The spread has narrowed 24 this
year, and widened 42 basis points for the quarter, according to
the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index.  
 Sukuk Returns  
 The  spread  on emerging-market debt and Libor widened three
basis points yesterday to 585 based on the EMBI+ index from
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The difference shrank 49 basis points so
far this year.  
 Islamic securities returned 0.9 percent this quarter,
according to  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index.  Debt
in developing markets gained 1.2 percent, JPMorgan Chase’s   EMBI
Global Diversified Index  shows.  
 The yield on Dubai’s 6.396 percent Islamic note maturing in
November 2014 has dropped 256 basis points to 7.719 percent
since reaching this year’s high of 10.29 percent on Feb. 15,
according to Bloomberg bond trader composite prices. The yield
gap with similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries shrank 195 basis
points to 616.  
 Malaysia used London-based HSBC and Barclays Capital, along
with Kuala Lumpur-based CIMB to underwrite its $1.25 billion
sukuk last month. Barclays ranks fifth in Islamic bond sales
this year, Bloomberg data show. Samba Financial Group, Saudi
Arabia’s second-biggest lender by market value, ranked third
after co-managing Saudi Electricity’s 7 billion riyal ($1.9
billion) Islamic bond in April with HSBC.  
 Pending Sales  
 Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s largest state-owned oil
company, and French producer Total SA plan to raise $8 billion,
including the sale of Islamic bonds, for a refinery and
petrochemical project in the “coming months,” Saleem Shaheen,
chief executive officer of Saudi Aramco Total Refining and
Petrochemical Co. said at a conference in Abu Dhabi on March 24.  
 Developer Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co. may sell
$1.5 billion in 10-year conventional bonds and five-year Islamic
securities, said a person familiar with the plan on May 12. HSBC
and New York-based Barclays Capital are among banks expected to
manage the sale, which could be completed in the next three
months, the person said. Spokesmen for HSBC and Barclays
declined to comment.  
 Saudi Arabia’s Islamic Development Bank, based in Jeddah,
plans to raise $1 billion to finance projects in member
countries, President  Ahmed Mohammed Ali  was quoted as saying by
the  Saudi Press Agency  on June 9.  
 Global Names  
 Issuers prefer global underwriters to regional banks to
manage international bond sales, making it difficult for
Malaysian banks, said  Nazir Razak , chief executive officer at
CIMB Group in Kuala Lumpur.  
 “There’s still some partiality to global names,” Nazir
said in an interview on June 28. “Relationships of global banks
with Middle Eastern corporates go back many, many years.”
CIMB’s unit in Bahrain offers regular and Islamic financial
services, according to its  website .  
 Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil supplier, plans to
spend $400 billion by 2013 on infrastructure projects such as
roads, airports and water works. The Qatari government and
state-owned companies plan to spend as much as $100 billion in
the next four years on roads, sewage and water treatment, ports
and airports, Finance Minister  Yousef Hussain Kamal  told
reporters in Istanbul on June 10.  
 Investment Needs  
 “There’s huge investment needed in terms of
infrastructure, utilities and transportation” in the Middle
East, said Kuala Lumpur-based  Zeid Ayer , who helps oversee $1.6
billion of Shariah-compliant assets for a joint venture between
Principal Global Investors and CIMB. “They can issue debt to
grow their economies and use oil revenue to back those debts.
That is something that would be very positive” for the sukuk
market, he said.  
 Indonesia, which has the world’s largest Muslim population,
may name three finalists from 11 international banks to help
sell its second overseas offering of sukuk in October,  Dahlan Siamat , the finance ministry’s head of Islamic financing, said
on June 15 in an interview in Kuala Lumpur. The government aims
to raise as much as $650 million, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        