-- SEC Limits Political Contributions After Pay-to-Play Investment Scandals
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-06-30T16:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/sec-limits-advisers-political-giving-after-pension-pay-to-play-scandals.html

          
          
             U.S. regulators restricted
investment advisers from contributing to political campaigns to
win pension business in response to abuses in an industry that
oversees $2.6 trillion of public retirement funds.  
 Securities and Exchange Commission members voted 5-0 at a
meeting in Washington today to ban executives at private-equity
firms and hedge funds from managing pension-fund assets for two
years if they give money to elected officials with influence in
awarding investment contracts.  
 “Pay-to-play distorts municipal investment priorities, as
well as the process by which managers are selected,” SEC
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said at the meeting. “The cost of this
practice is borne by retired teachers, firefighters and other
government employees relying on expected pension benefits.”  
 The SEC and New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  have
investigated state pension-fund corruption for more than a year.
Indictments and civil complaints stemming from the probes depict
officials who let political and personal relationships trump
merit in deciding who should be entrusted with retirement funds.  
 Quadrangle Group LLC, the private-equity firm co-founded by
 Steven Rattner , agreed in April to pay $12 million to resolve
allegations it provided kickbacks to win an investment from a
New York state retirement fund.  
 Rattner paid $1.1 million in finder fees to a former
political consultant to  Alan Hevesi , who served as New York’s
comptroller from 2003 to 2006, according to Cuomo. Rattner
denied any wrongdoing.  
 Directed Contributions  
 The SEC rules would bar hedge-fund and private-equity
executives from directing contributions by spouses, lawyers,
affiliated companies or political action committees, private
groups formed to elect candidates or support legislation.  
 Donations of $350 or less to politicians an investment
adviser is entitled to vote for wouldn’t trigger the two-year
ban on managing money. The SEC, which said smaller donations
wouldn’t influence the awarding of pension contracts, will also
permit donations of $150 to candidates the giver can’t vote for,
such as an out of state politician.  
 The SEC backed away from a proposal made last July that
would have imposed an outright ban on investment advisers hiring
so-called placement agents.  
 Placement agents are companies paid by hedge funds and
private-equity firms to help gain access to pension money. The
proposed ban followed allegations that New York officials
arranged for a pension fund to invest $5 billion with money
managers who paid political advisers with ties to placement
agents.  
 Registered Firms  
 The regulations approved today allow hedge funds and
private-equity firms to keep using placement agents as long as
the firms are registered with the SEC or the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, the industry-funded brokerage watchdog,
and subject to pay-to-play restrictions.  
 Companies including Credit Suisse AG fought the outright
ban, with the Switzerland bank arguing in a September letter to
the SEC that a prohibition would eliminate the “critical
capital-formation function” that brokerage firms provide as
placement agents.  
 Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd  also
opposed it in a February letter to the SEC. Retaining placement
agents is the only “cost-effective way for smaller funds” to
compete with bigger rivals in winning contracts to manage
pension-fund money, wrote Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat.  
 The SEC asked Finra in December whether it could restrict
brokerages from engaging in pay-to-play arrangements as an
alternative to a ban. Finra Chief Executive Officer  Richard Ketchum  responded in March the private regulator that oversees
5,000 U.S. brokerages could restrict firms from engaging in
“improper pay-to-play practices.”  
 The restriction on investment advisers using unregistered
placement agents won’t take effect for one year to give Finra
time to write rules.  Andrew Donohue , who heads the SEC division
of investment management, said at today’s meeting that the Finra
regulations will be “at least as stringent” as his agency’s.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        