-- Serena Williams Says Experience Doesn't Guarantee a Fourth Wimbledon Title
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-06-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/serena-williams-says-experience-doesn-t-guarantee-a-fourth-wimbledon-title.html

          
          
             Defending champion  Serena Williams 
said the experience advantage she brings into today’s Wimbledon
semifinals doesn’t guarantee her fourth title.  
 Williams, the top seed, is the only player remaining in the
women’s draw who’s ever advanced past the fourth round at the
All England Club. She meets unseeded  Petra Kvitova  of the Czech
Republic in one match, with No. 21  Vera Zvonareva  of Russia
facing Tsvetana Pironkova of Bulgaria in the other.  
 “It’s not mine to lose, it’s mine to win if I can get
it,” Williams, 28, said in a news conference following her
quarterfinal win over Li Na two days ago. “There’s three other
people that are vying to win it. They have just as good a chance
as I do.”  
 This is the third time since the Grand Slams extended to 32
seeds in 2001 that two unseeded players have reached the
semifinals. The last to do it at Wimbledon were Mirjana Lucic of
Croatia and  Alexandra Stevenson  of the U.S. in 1999.  
 Williams will be trying to avoid the fate of the defending
men’s champion,  Roger Federer  of Switzerland, who was eliminated
in yesterday’s quarterfinals by 12th-seeded  Tomas Berdych  of the
Czech Republic, 6-4, 3-6, 6-1, 6-4.  
 Men’s Semifinals  
 Berdych will play in tomorrow’s semifinals against third-
seeded  Novak Djokovic  of Serbia, who beat unseeded Yen-Hsun Lu
of Taiwan 6-3, 6-2-, 6-2. The other semifinal will pit second-
seeded  Rafael Nadal  of Spain against fourth-seeded  Andy Murray 
of Britain. Nadal, the 2008 champion and No. 1 player in the ATP
World Tour rankings, beat sixth-seeded  Robin Soderling  of Sweden
3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7-4), 6-1, while Murray defeated 10th-seeded  Jo- Wilfried Tsonga  of France 6-7 (5-7), 7-6 (7-5), 6-2, 6-2.  
 Williams, who captured her 12th Grand Slam singles title at
the Australian Open in January, is the top-ranked player on the
WTA Tour.  
 Kvitova, a 20-year-old ranked 62nd, failed to get out of
the opening round in two previous Wimbledon appearances. She’s
beaten three seeded players en route to the semifinals,
including No. 3  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark in the fourth
round.  
 The 82nd-ranked Pironkova upset five-time Wimbledon
champion  Venus Williams  two days ago to become the first
Bulgarian to reach the Wimbledon semifinals. She lost in the
first round in her only other appearance, in 2006.  
 “I still cannot believe that I reached the semifinals,”
the 22-year-old told reporters. “This is truly like a dream to
me and I will enjoy it as much as I can.”  
 Zvonareva, 25, defeated U.S. Open champion  Kim Clijsters  in
her quarterfinal match. She’s twice reached the fourth round at
Wimbledon and her only other Grand Slam semifinal came last year
in Australia.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        