-- Shell Shuts Perdido Platform as Hurricane Idles 26% of Gulf Oil Production
-- Aaron Clark
-- 2010-06-30T20:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/shell-shuts-perdido-platform-as-hurricane-idles-26-of-gulf-oil-production.html

          
          
             Royal Dutch Shell Plc  shut in
production at its Perdido platform in the Gulf of Mexico as
Hurricane Alex bore down on the oil-rich region.  
 The Hague-based company also evacuated non-essential
workers from the project,  Ted Rolfvondenbaumen , a spokesman,
said in an e-mail. About 930 workers have been evacuated from
offshore platforms in the Gulf and Shell has shut-in its south
Texas operations, the company said in a statement posted on its
 website  today.  
 The Perdido project is the “world’s deepest offshore
drilling and production facility,” according to the  website . It
began producing oil and natural gas March 31, Shell  said . The
project will eventually have a peak capacity of 100,000 barrels
of oil equivalent a day.  
 Shell said in a statement on June 27 that it shut in
production from the Auger and Brutus platforms. Brutus has the
capacity to process 110,000 barrels of oil and condensate and
150 million cubic feet of natural gas a day, according to the
company’s  website .  
 Alex has halted about 26 percent of crude-oil production in
the Gulf of Mexico and 14 percent of natural-gas output, the
U.S. government said.  
 Oil and gas producers report that eight rigs and 74
production platforms have been evacuated due to the storm, the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement
said today in a statement on its website. About 421,000 barrels
of daily oil production remain shut-in, along with 919 million
cubic feet of gas.  
 “We will continue to monitor this system closely and
respond to further developments,” Shell said. “We now
begin planning the safe redeployment of personnel and production
ramp-up.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        