-- Shionogi Jumps After Winning U.S. Court Ruling on Sales of Crestor Copies
-- Kanoko Matsuyama
-- 2010-06-30T02:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/shionogi-rises-after-astrazeneca-wins-ruling-to-prevent-crestor-copies.html

          
          
             Shionogi & Co. , the discoverer of
the Crestor cholesterol pill, is headed for the biggest gain in
19 months in Tokyo trading after a U.S. court ruling that will
help prevent sales of cheaper copies of the drug until 2016.  
 Shionogi, based in Osaka, Japan, gained as much as 11
percent to a five-month high of 1,906 yen after U.S. District
Judge  Joseph J. Farnan Jr  ruled yesterday that a patent on the
active ingredient in Crestor is valid and enforceable.  
 Crestor generated $4.5 billion last year for Shionogi’s
partner, London-based  AstraZeneca Plc , which sells the medicine
outside of Japan, and brought 50 billion yen ($565 million) in
royalty revenue in to Shionogi in the year ended March 31, or 18
percent of its total sales. The dispute has been capping
Shionogi shares, said  Mayo Mita , an equities analyst at Morgan
Stanley in Tokyo.  
 “A big uncertainty is lifted,” said Mita, who rates the
stock “overweight.”  
 Shionogi was 8.4 percent higher on the Tokyo Stock Exchange
at 1,863 yen at the 11 a.m. trading break. The benchmark Topix
index declined 1.5 percent.  
 The shares may reach 2,200 yen in the next 12 months, said
 Fumiyoshi Sakai , an equities analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG,
in a note to clients.  
 The judge in Wilmington, Delaware, rejected challenges by
companies including  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  that
sought to market copies of the medicine.  
 “The legal victory will now provide some upside,” said
Sakai, who rates Shionogi “outperform.” “It ensures that
Shionogi can continue to receive substantial royalty payments
from AstraZeneca until September 2016, when the substance patent
expires.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kanoko Matsuyama  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        