-- Six People Killed, 10 Hurt, in an Accident on Amusement Park Ride in China
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-30T07:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/six-people-killed-10-hurt-in-accident-on-amusement-park-ride-in-shenzhen.html

          
          
             An accident on an amusement park
ride in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen yesterday killed
six people and injured 10 others.  
 Shenzhen Overseas Chinese Town Holdings Co.  disclosed the
accident on the “Space Journey” ride in a Shenzhen stock
exchange filing late yesterday, without giving accident details.
The company will shut parts of the  Overseas Chinese Town East
park  for three days, according to a statement on the park’s
website.  
 The ride collapsed at about 4 p.m. local time yesterday,
trapping 48 people, said the Southern Metropolis Daily newspaper,
based in the nearby city of Guangzhou. A power shortage struck
the ride, a simulated rocket-launch experience, before the
accident, the official Xinhua News Agency said late yesterday,
citing a rider who survived the accident, identified only by the
surname Zhang.  
 The Shenzhen government is investigating the accident,
Xinhua said.  Ni Zheng , secretary of Shenzhen Overseas Chinese
Town’s board of directors, wasn’t available to comment,
according to a company employee who answered the phone at Ni’s
office and who declined to give her name.  
 Shenzhen Overseas Chinese Town fell  9.8 percent , the
biggest one-day drop since April 19, to 11 yuan, a 16-month low,
in Shenzhen today. China’s benchmark Shanghai Composite Index
fell 1.2 percent. The stock has fallen 36 percent this year.  
 The  Overseas Chinese Town East park  in Shenzhen was built
with an investment of 3.5 billion yuan ($516 million) and has
two theme parks, four resort hotels and two 18-hole golf courses,
according to its website. It generated 2.3 billion yuan of sales
last year and a profit of 195 million yuan, according to
Shenzhen Overseas Chinese Town’s 2009 annual report.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories about China’s tourism industry: TNI CHINA LEI BN <GO>
Stories about Shenzhen Overseas Chinese Town:
000069 CH <Equity> CN <GO>
China economic statistics: ECST CH <GO>
Most-read stories about China: MNI CHINA <GO>  
          
          


  


        