-- Smurfit-Stone Containerboard Maker Emerges From Bankruptcy, Lists on NYSE
-- Alex Sherman
-- 2010-06-30T20:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/smurfit-stone-containerboard-maker-emerges-from-bankruptcy-lists-on-nyse.html

          
          
             Smurfit-Stone Container Corp. , the
second-largest U.S. maker of corrugated packaging, emerged from
Chapter 11 bankruptcy and will begin trading tomorrow on the New
York Stock Exchange under the symbol SSCC.  
 Unsecured creditors will own 96 percent of the reorganized
company’s new equity in exchange for canceling about $3 billion
in debt. Preferred and common stock owners agreed to split the
remaining stock, the company said in a statement. Smurfit-Stone
will leave bankruptcy with about $1.2 billion in debt, Chief
Executive Officer  Patrick J. Moore  said in an interview.  
 “We’re emerging from this restructuring with a leadership
position and a healthy  balance sheet ,” said Moore, 55. “We
have a very strong liquidity position, we’re leaner than we were
and we’ve substantially improved productivity.”  
 Smurfit-Stone, which filed for bankruptcy in January 2009,
has reduced inventory, closed two mills, shuttered 13 converting
facilities and cut more than 10 percent of its workforce during
the 17-month restructuring, Moore said. The company is
emphasizing efficiency as demand for cardboard shipping
containers hasn’t rebounded to pre-recession levels.  
 “We’re at the lowest inventory levels that I can ever
remember,” said Moore. “At 3.2 weeks of supply, we’re in a
very tight situation. It would be difficult to contract much
further.”  
 Industry Consolidation  
 Since 1999, the five largest U.S. containerboard makers
have increased their U.S.  market share  to about 75 percent from
45 percent, according to Moore, who predicted more acquisitions
would likely occur within the industry. International Paper Co.,
based in Memphis, Tennessee, is the largest maker of cardboard
boxes and paper products.  
 Smurfit-Stone, based in Chicago, will have approximately
100 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding,
according to the statement.  
 The new common stock to unsecured creditors will be worth
as much as 71 percent of their claims, according to the June 21
disclosure. Secured creditors who claimed $969 million were paid
in full in cash or new debt.  
 Smurfit-Stone had sales of $5.6 billion in 2009. The
company will host a conference call and  webcast  to update
investors on the newly restructured company tomorrow at 11 a.m.
New York time.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Brendan Linehan Shannon  in
Wilmington, Delaware, on June 21 gave final approval of Smurfit-
Stone’s reorganization plan.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Sherman  in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        