-- South Korea's Lee Faces `Lame Duck' Test as Plan for New City Is Canceled
-- Bomi Lim
-- 2010-06-30T05:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/south-korea-s-lee-faces-lame-duck-test-as-plan-for-new-city-is-canceled.html

          
          
             South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ’s administration reversed course on a $13 billion plan to
develop a new city after lawmakers rejected a proposal to get
businesses instead of government agencies to move there.  
 The  National Assembly  yesterday rejected a proposed
revision of the previous administration’s plan to move nine
ministries and four government agencies into  Sejong City , 150
kilometers (93 miles) south of Seoul. Lee’s government instead
proposed Samsung Group and other companies should invest there.  
 “I respect the National Assembly decision and will do my
best to develop Sejong city into a good city,” Prime Minister
 Chung Un Chan  said today in a televised speech. “The nation
should no longer be divided over this issue and I hope the
controversy ends with this.”  
 It was the latest defeat for Lee’s Grand National Party,
after a surprise loss in local elections on June 2 and
escalating tensions with North Korea over the alleged torpedoing
of the Cheonan warship.  
 “President Lee will start having to make compromises on
his key domestic agenda if he doesn’t want to further alienate
himself from the public,” said Park Kie Duck, a senior research
fellow at the Seongnam, South Korea-based Sejong Institute.
“That would signal the beginning of Lee’s lame-duck status.”  
 The government’s Sejong plan was rejected by 164 votes to
105, with six abstentions. Lee’s Grand National Party has 168
seats in the unicameral 299-member parliament, while the main
opposition Democratic Party holds 84.  
 Lee is halfway through his single five-year term, which
ends in February 2013. Under South Korea’s constitution he
cannot stand again. The election for the next president is
slated for December 2012.  
 ‘Full Responsibility’  
 Chung said he will take “full responsibility” for not
being able to push through the revised plan, without elaborating.
He reiterated his stance that the new plan would have been more
effective in fueling regional development.  
 Samsung ,  Lotte Group , Hanwha Group and Woongjin Group
pledged 4.4 trillion won ($3.6 billion) of investment in Sejong
City under the new plan. At least 16.5 trillion won would have
been spent on the project and investments would have grown as
more companies and universities moved into the town, lured by
tax incentives and other benefits, Chung said in January.  
 More than 5 trillion won has already been spent for the
project under the original plan for an administrative town,
mandated by laws that were passed in parliament in 2005.  
 Reach Out  
 Lee needs to reach out to other members of his party like
former Grand National Party Chairwoman Park Geun Hye, who leads
a faction critical of Lee, to ensure his leadership doesn’t
weaken, said  Kang Won Taek , professor of political science at
Soongsil University in Seoul. Park, who lost to Lee in elections
for the party endorsement as a presidential candidate in 2007,
had opposed the revised Sejong plan.  
 “The latest policy failure may provide a chance for
President Lee to try to forge unity within his own party,” said
Kang. “It is absolutely necessary for Lee to maintain his
approval rating.”  
 Lee’s approval rating stood at 39.4 percent last week,
after dropping to below 40 percent for the first time this year
in the second week of June, according to surveys by research
company Realmeter. The surveys of 5,000 South Koreans nationwide
aged 19 or older were carried out between June 7-11 and June 21-
25 and had a margin of error of plus or minus 1.4 percentage
points.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bomi Lim  in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        