-- South Africa Maintains Its 26% Black Ownership Target for Mining Companies
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-06-30T16:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/south-africa-maintains-its-26-black-ownership-target-for-mining-companies.html

          
          
             South Africa, the world’s largest
platinum producer, retained its 26 percent black ownership goal
for mining companies and raised targets for training as it tries
to boost participation in the industry by people disadvantaged
by apartheid.  
 “The commitment of 26 percent has been confirmed,” Mines
Minister  Susan Shabangu  said today in a speech in Pretoria,
where the government, industry and labor unions signed a new
mining strategy. While it’s “disappointing” that last year’s
black ownership target wasn’t met by all mining companies,
they’re being given “a second opportunity” to do so, she said.  
 A 2004 Mining Charter required companies to sell 15 percent
of their South African assets to black investors by the end of
2009 and 26 percent by 2014 to make amends for apartheid, the
segregation policy that ended in 1994. The government aims to
complete a review of the charter by August.  
 South Africa is the world’s biggest producer of platinum
and ferrochrome, and is the fourth-largest gold producer, after
China, Australia and the U.S.  
 The so-called Strategy for Sustainable Growth and
Meaningful Transformation, signed today, states that black
investors must be given full shareholder rights regardless of
how the transactions are structured.  
 New Targets  
 The deals should take place within the agreed timeframes,
and will take into account “prevailing market conditions,”
according to the strategy document. Some cash flow should accrue
to black investors “throughout the term of the investment.”  
 Other new targets include a stipulation that a minimum of
40 percent of employees at the board, executive committee,
middle and junior management levels should be previously
disadvantaged people by 2014.  
 Mining companies should boost spending on training to 5
percent of their annual payroll by 2014, up from 3 percent this
year, according to the document. Each mineworker should also be
given his or her own room by that date, it says. Some mining
companies house workers in hostels, where they share rooms.  
 “A lot of the targets that were vague in the mining
charter have become hard targets,” Peter Leon, chairman of the
Mining Law Committee of the International Bar Association, said
by mobile phone today, citing employment equity targets as an
example.  
 ‘Huge Improvement’  
 “A huge improvement is the commitment to revise the
Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act,” Leon said.
While the Minister wasn’t specific about which elements of the
act will be revised, excessive administrative discretion and
licensing processes are problematic, Leon said.  
 South Africa dropped 12 notches to 61st in the 2009/2010
 Fraser Institute Survey of Mining Companies  which aims to
establish how mineral endowment and public policy factors such
as taxation and regulation affect exploration investment. That
made it the worst-ranked country in Africa apart from the
Democratic Republic of Congo and Zimbabwe.  
 South Africa has the most mineral wealth in the world,
according to an April 26 Citigroup AG note. The country has $2.5
trillion of in-situ reserve value, the firm said, adding it used
countries’ non-energy reserve data and the firm’s own long-term
commodity price assumptions to assess the relative ‘commodity
wealth’ of countries.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s biggest mining company,
Anglo American Plc, the biggest platinum producer, and AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd., the third biggest gold producer, are among
companies operating in the country.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        