-- South Korea's Biggest Investors Become More Bullish as Foreign Funds Sell
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-01T06:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/south-korea-s-biggest-investors-become-more-bullish-as-foreign-funds-sell.html

          
          
             South Korea’s largest fund managers
are growing more bullish on the nation’s stocks even as overseas
investors sell, helping the benchmark  Kospi index  post one of
only two gains among the 20 biggest equity markets last quarter.  
 KTB Asset Management Co. and Mirae Asset Global Investments
Co. of Seoul say shares may rise further as Korea Exchange Inc.
 data  show domestic pension funds increased equity holdings in
the first half. At the same time,  foreign investors  pulled a net
407.66 billion won ($330 million) from Kospi stocks in the three
months that started April as Europe’s debt crisis reduced the
allure of riskier assets, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Domestic investors stepped up purchases of Korean stocks as
the economy rebounded at a faster-than-forecast 2.1 percent pace
in the first quarter, helped by rising exports and increased
domestic demand. The 0.3 percent  climb  in the past quarter for
the Kospi, which along with India’s Sensex were the only
benchmarks to rise among the largest markets, marks the first
time in six quarters Korea’s index advanced as foreigners sold.  
 “Korea’s economy is fast recovering,” said  Chang In Whan ,
who helps manage the equivalent of $9.2 billion in assets as
president of KTB. “There’s ample upside left as prices remain
cheap.”  
 Buying More  
 Chang said KTB is boosting the proportion of stocks in its
portfolios, while Mirae, the nation’s largest asset management
company, said it has bought more technology, automobile and
chemical shares over the past six months. Korean pension funds
bought a net 3.7 trillion won worth of equities this year,
according to Koscom Corp., which provides financial  data  from
the Korea Exchange.  
 The Kospi’s gain last quarter compares with an average 8.9
percent decline in stock benchmarks for the world’s 20 largest
markets. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index is the only
other benchmark to rally, climbing 1 percent, while Sweden’s OMX
Stockholm 30 Index was the third-best performer after a 1.3
percent retreat. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  tumbled 23
percent, the most among the biggest markets.  
 The Korean index fell 0.7 percent to 1,686.24 in Seoul, the
lowest close since June 11.  
 Korea’s  National Pension Service  intends to boost holdings
of domestic equities to 16.6 percent of its portfolio this year
and 18 percent in 2011 from 13.1 percent in 2009, the Ministry
for Health, Welfare and Family Affairs, which oversees the fund,
said yesterday. The country’s biggest investor expects assets to
increase to 303.3 trillion won at the end of 2010.  
 ‘Buy’ Ratings  
 Analysts remain the most optimistic on Korea among the
world’s 20 largest markets even after cutting the number of
“buy” ratings in the country to 51.58 percent as of June, the
lowest since September 1999, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. India has the second-highest number of “buy” calls,
amounting to 45.76 percent of total analyst recommendations.  
 Korea’s  gross domestic product  expanded in the first
quarter more than the central bank’s April estimate of 1.8
percent. Government data also showed exports climbed in June for
an eighth straight month while consumer sentiment rose for a
second month.  
 The Kospi’s 763 members are  forecast  to post profit growth
of 203 percent in the next 12 months, compared with a 28 percent
forecast for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  and 40 percent for
the Shanghai Composite Index, analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show.  
 Shrinking Valuations  
 Valuations have shrunk since the start of the year amid
improving earnings prospects, with companies on the  Kospi  now
trading at 10 times estimated earnings, compared with a multiple
of 15 in January. Korea is the fourth-cheapest among the world’s
20 largest markets, trailing only Russia, Argentina and Spain.  
 “Valuations, the outlook for corporate earnings and low
interest rates all suggest there’s room for gains in the second
half,” said  Koo Jae Sang , who helps oversee $47 billion as the
chief executive officer of Mirae. “Simply put, Korea’s not
expensive at all and the market’s outperformance will
continue.”  
 The won’s 7.4 percent slump last quarter, the most among
Asian currencies, means the Kospi has retreated 6.5 percent in
dollar terms. That compares with an average drop of 12.1 percent
for indexes in the 20 largest markets after Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis and China’s efforts to curb property speculation
raised concern over the pace of the global economic recovery.  
 Won’s Rebound  
 The Korean currency may strengthen 11 percent to 1,100 per
dollar by the end of the year from 1,217 currently, according to
the median forecast of 21 economists compiled by Bloomberg.  
 While a rebound in the won may draw foreign investors, the
stronger currency may curb demand for Korean goods and hurt the
value of exporters’ overseas sales, UBS AG’s wealth management
unit said. Producers of electronics and cars that generate part
of their revenue in foreign currency account for a third of the
 Kospi , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Korea is an export-oriented market and it’s exposed to
external demand more than other countries,” said  Pu Yonghao ,
the Hong Kong-based chief Asian investment strategist for UBS
Wealth Management. “We’re still cautious on Korea even though
we’re starting to see interesting value in the won.”  
 Hyundai Motor Co. , which sells almost 80 percent of its
vehicles outside Korea, rallied 25 percent in Seoul last
quarter, compared with a 20 percent slump in  Ford Motor Co.  and
a 2.3 percent decline in Volkswagen AG. Shares of South Korea’s
largest automaker are valued at 10.4 times this year’s earnings,
compared with 7.6 times for Ford. Germany’s  Volkswagen  trades at
a multiple of 18 times.  
 ‘Free Lunch’  
 “The won is extremely undervalued and this free lunch for
Korean exporters cannot last forever,” BNP Paribas’s Singapore-
based chief Asian strategist  Clive McDonnell  said in a June 21
report. “Together with our view that global growth momentum
should moderate in the second half, we are more cautious on the
Korean auto stocks, which also look increasingly expensive.”  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co., ranked third for Korean research in
Institutional Investor’s 2010 poll, says a return of foreign
investors may help drive an 18 percent advance in the Kospi by
the end of the year.  
 “More foreign funds will come in the second half as
earnings are in good shape and as the European sovereign debt
problems stabilize,”  Scott YH Seo , JPMorgan’s Seoul head of
equity research, said in a June 18 interview. “It’s a buying
opportunity for Korean stocks.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        