-- Sovereign Default Enters Apparatchik Vocabulary: Mark Gilbert
-- Mark Gilbert
-- 2010-06-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/sovereign-default-enters-apparatchik-vocabulary-mark-gilbert.html

          
          
             The notion that default might be the
only sensible exit strategy for an indebted euro nation is
finally gaining traction with the authorities. With global
financial markets still in a state of disrepair, investors would
be wise to tread softly amid the potential nightmares.  
 A draft European Union document, dated June 25 and
scheduled for discussion July 12-13, was obtained this week by
Bloomberg reporter Meera Louis. The draft suggests the
forthcoming stress tests planned for the region’s banks should
assess the dangers posed by “exposures to sovereign risk.”  
 That’s a euphemism for asking whether banks would blow up
if a government couldn’t pay its debts. Including that scenario
in the analysis is an admission that the prospect of
restructuring has, in the minds of the euro’s apparatchiks,
moved up the scale to “possible” from “out of the question.”  
 On June 28, the  Bank for International Settlements  weighed
in with its  annual report . Cheery reading it is not.  
 “As the long history of sovereign debt crises has shown,
when investors lose their confidence in a country’s ability to
service its debt and become unwilling to hold it, rescue
packages, bailouts and even debt restructuring for the sovereign
remain the only options,” the BIS said. Rearrange the words
“bag,” “cat” and “out of the” to form a well-known phrase.  
 Financial markets breathed a huge sigh of relief this week
when a money auction by the  European Central Bank  seemed to
suggest that bank funding pressures aren’t as bad as they might
have been. I’m not convinced.  
 Delaying the Inevitable?  
 Sure, it looks like good news that banks didn’t feel the
need to re-borrow all of the 442 billion euros ($539 billion)
that they took from the ECB a year ago and have to repay this
week. In three months, however, we’ll replay the same, nervy
game when  Europe ’s financial institutions have to find the 132
billion euros the central bank loaned them this week. A problem
delayed is not a problem solved.  
 Maybe the banks don’t need the cash because they’re not
planning to do anything with their money other than keep it
stuffed in the holes in their balance sheets. If you’re not
lending to the bank next door, or to the entrepreneur trying to
build a business, or to your own profligate government by
investing in its bonds, maybe you can afford not to turn up at
the ECB’s money auctions. That’s not a good thing.  
 Unfriendly Trend  
 There’s a terrifying chart on page 32 of the BIS report. It
suggests the average maturity of bank debt around the world has
declined to about 4 1/2 years, down from a 30-year average of
more than six years. And those are last year’s figures; the
trend would suggest that refunding risks are probably even
higher now.  
 The BIS, which acts as kind of a clearing house for central
banking philosophy, reckons debt is coming due at the fastest
pace in 30 years, and that 60 percent of what it calls “long-
term debt flows” need repaying in the coming three years.  
 So Europe’s banks have transformed a one-year obligation of
442 billion euros into a three-month burden worth 132 billion
euros. That should give pause for thought.  
 The same logic applies to the euro region’s governments,
which aren’t exactly flooding the zone with 30- and 50-year
debt.  
 “The vulnerability to a run on debt is clearly higher when
a country has to refinance a large portion of its debt every
year,” as the Basel, Switzerland-based institution put it.  
 Cause for Concern  
 Three warnings in particular stick out from the BIS report:
that ultra-low central-bank  interest rates  are dangerous; that
policy makers have no capacity to cope with the next black swan;
and that government coffers are out of firepower to fend off any
renewed attack on the banking system.  
 Suppressing borrowing costs to near zero “alters
investment decisions, postpones the recognition of losses,
increases risk-taking in the ensuing search for yield, and
encourages high levels of borrowing,” the BIS wrote. That’s
exactly what caused the credit crisis in the first place; so we
should be “extremely wary this time around,” the report says.  
 When governments and central banks distort markets, bad
things happen.  
 As risk has drifted from bank balance sheets to government
accounts, the medicine cabinet has been raided again and again
to try to heal the global economy. “It will be difficult to
find a source of further treatment should another emergency
arise,” the BIS said.  
 Beyond the Grave  
 The BIS’s final caution has an air of unreality. “If the
debt of the government itself becomes unmarketable, any future
bailout of the banking system would have to rely on external
help,” the agency says.  
 External help? If the capital markets are closed to
governments, it is far from clear what external sources might
remain available to banks in trouble. They can’t exactly ask the  International Monetary Fund  for help.  
 Recent government-bond auctions in the euro area tell you
nothing about the willingness of investors to fund government
deficits. Arms will have been twisted so far up backs that the
domestic banks obliged to participate in the sales couldn’t
reach the “No, thanks” button without breakages.  
 In the absence of a clear picture of sovereign-debt demand,
market participants would do well to heed the weekly words of
Sergeant Phil Esterhaus as he sent the police officers of “Hill
Street Blues” out onto the streets: “Hey! Let’s be careful out
there.”  
   Mark Gilbert , author of “Complicit: How Greed and
Collusion Made the Credit Crisis Unstoppable,” is the London
bureau chief and a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Mark Gilbert in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        