-- Spain Gets Luck of the Rebound and the World Cup Win as Portugal Goes Home
-- Christopher Elser
-- 2010-06-30T00:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/spain-gets-luck-of-the-rebound-and-the-world-cup-win-as-portugal-goes-home.html

          
          
             Portugal coach  Carlos Queiroz 
lamented the bounce of the ball after his team was eliminated 1-
0 by Spain last night in the World Cup round of 16.  
 Spanish goalkeeper  Iker Casillas  could only block  Cristiano Ronaldo ’s 28th-minute free-kick back in front of his goal and
the ball went over the heads of two Portuguese attackers. In the
64th minute, Spain’s  David Villa  broke through Portugal’s
defense, shooting straight at Eduardo, who stopped it. The ball
bounced back to Villa, who struck it cleanly into the net.  
 “Unfortunately one of the rebounds went right to Spain,”
Queiroz told reporters. “We had a similar situation in the
first half. The rebound went off Casillas and past our two
players. It was exactly the same.”  
 Eduardo, who stopped nine of the 10 shots the Spanish got
on target, was left in tears at the end. It was the only goal
Portugal conceded in the tournament, after scoreless draws with
Brazil and Ivory Coast and a 7-0 rout of North Korea. Eduardo’s
team goes home and Spain moves on to play Paraguay in the
quarterfinals.  
 Spain, which had 61 percent of the possession and outshot
Portugal 10-3, deserved to win, Queiroz said. Still, a first-
half goal might have made a difference, he said.  
 “Spain moved the ball extremely well and had a good
portion of possession,” the coach said. “Whoever does this
will control the game.”  
 Argentinean referee Hector Baldassi allowed the game to
flow, telling players to get up instead of whistling for fouls.  
 Spain started to pressure Eduardo from the first minute,
when  Fernando Torres  forced a save. The Portuguese keeper had
two more stops to make from Villa in the next six minutes.  
 Portuguese Chances  
 The Portuguese got some of their own chances, with Casillas
able to parry Tiago’s shot straight up in the air and get to it
before  Hugo Almeida  could head it in.  
 “It was extremely intense,” Spain coach  Vicente del Bosque  said. “We were quite even in the first half. We always
controlled the match, but I thought in the second half we were
better.”  
 Del Bosque replaced Liverpool’s Torres with Fernando
Llorente in the 58th minute. The 6-foot-4 (1.92 meter) Athletic
Bilbao forward helped open up the game and Villa’s goal came
five minutes later.  
 Portugal couldn’t respond, with Ronaldo left protesting to
the referee about fouls that weren’t given. Eventually, Baldassi
did give a card, dismissing  Ricardo Costa  for a foul on Spain’s
 Joan Capdevila . Portugal had all but given up, with Ronaldo
shooting from 30 yards, a slow roller that went wide. It brought
boos from the crowd of 62,955.  
 The former World Player of the Year appeared frustrated,
spitting close to a television camera filming his exit from the
field.  
 Spain moved on, the European champion trying to win a
bigger trophy.  
 “We tried to keep possession of the ball,” said Xavi, who
was named man of the match. “We tried to play the style we’ve
been playing for the last few years. We enjoyed our football,
especially in the second half. This is the best match we played
in this World Cup.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Rachel Brookes reports from the World Cup in South Africa on Spain's 1-0 win over Portugal to secure the last spot in the quarterfinals.
     Brookes also discusses the art of taking a penalty and puts on her boots to find out whether she can score against Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
