-- Spain's Aaa Rating on Review for Downgrade at Moody's
-- Emma Ross-Thomas
-- 2010-06-30T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/spain-s-aaa-rating-is-on-review-at-moody-s-amid-growth-budget-challenges.html

          
          
             Spain’s top credit ranking was placed
on review for a possible downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service
as the country prepares to sell as much 3.5 billion euros ($4.3
billion) of five-year notes today.  
 “Deteriorating” growth prospects and challenges in
meeting fiscal targets mean Spain’s Aaa classification may be
lowered by as much as two grades, Moody’s analysts including
Senior Vice President  Kristin Lindow  in New York said yesterday
in a statement. The review will be concluded within a three-
month period, the ratings company said.  
 The moves came before today’s auction provides a test of
investor sentiment toward the euro region’s fourth-largest
economy and puts pressure on the Socialist government to deepen
spending cuts as it starts drafting next year’s  budget . Fitch
Ratings and Standard & Poor’s already stripped Spain of their
top ratings.  
 “It will add to the general nervousness before the Spanish
auction,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at
RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “The move shouldn’t come
as too much of a surprise as Spain has already lost its triple-A
rating with the other two agencies.”  
 U.S. stocks extended losses and the euro trimmed gains
against the dollar after the announcement from Moody’s, which is
the latest blow to the euro-area as its members seek to escape a
debt crisis. Single currency members Greece and Portugal have
had their sovereign ratings lowered on concern they will
struggle to cut their budget deficits to within European Union
limits.  
 ‘Different’ View  
 In an interview with Bloomberg Television late yesterday in
New York, Spain’s Deputy Finance Minister  Jose Manuel Campa  said
he had a “different assessment” of his economy than Moody’s.
“What I do think is unfortunate is that many of these
downgrades come on the evaluation of long-term growth, but the
timing tends to be linked to short-term volatility,” he said.  
 Prior to Moody’s decision, investors had expected strong
demand at the five-year note auction on easing concerns about
the region’s banks after lenders sought less cash than forecast
at a European Central Bank tender. The extra yield demanded on
 Spanish debt  rather than German equivalents fell to 198.4 basis
points yesterday from 204.9 basis points. That compares with a
euro-era high of 221 basis points on June 16.  
 Spain, which faces 24.7 billion euros of maturing debt in
July, is trying to convince investors it can cut the third-
largest deficit in the euro region, while bolstering the
country’s savings banks and lifting the economy out of a two-
year slump. The July debt redemptions are the largest for the
rest of the year and the government has said it will have no
trouble making the payments, which coincide with some of the
largest tax revenue of the year.  
 Budget Targets  
 Moody’s said it will “review” next year’s  budget  “to
assess whether the deficit target for 2011 can be achieved.”
That increases pressure on the minority Socialist government,
which cut civil servants’ wages last month and will increase the
value-added tax rate today, as it starts drafting next year’s
budget ahead of its presentation to Parliament by the end of
September.  
 The government expects to cut the budget deficit to 6
percent of gross domestic product next year from 11.2 percent in
2009, aiming to bring the shortfall in line with an EU limit of
3 percent in 2013. Moody’s expects the deficit to remain “just
over” 5 percent that year, lead Spain analyst Kathrin
Muehlbronner said in a telephone interview.  
 That will push the debt ratio to close to 80 percent by
2014, she said. Last year Spain’s debt burden was 53 percent of
GDP, less than Germany’s and below the euro region average.  
 Growth Outlook  
 Moody’s also forecasts less economic growth than Spain’s
Finance Ministry as budget cuts threaten the recovery. Moody’s
projects that the economy will expand by an average 1 percent a
year through 2014, while the government expects growth to
accelerate to 2.7 percent in 2013.  
 Campa said in the interview that growth may be “slightly
less” than the 1.3 percent the government now expects.  
 Fitch Ratings also cited growth concerns when it cut Spain
to AA+ on May 28. Standard & Poor’s ranks the nation AA, having
stripped Spain of the top rating in January 2009.  
 “The general consensus is that it’s a bit overdue. It’s
late, it’s old news,” said  Ian Lyngen,  a government bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.  
 “You’d need something genuinely new, like the prospect for
downgrades across Europe, to have the market reacting to it,”
he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Spain's Deputy Finance Minister Jose Manuel Campa speaks prior to a television interview in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
