-- U.S. Stocks Extend Losses; S&P 500 Heads for Quarterly Drop
-- Kelly Bit
-- 2010-06-30T20:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/stock-index-futures-gain-as-ecb-loans-tender-indicates-strength-of-banks.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks fell, extending the
first quarterly drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in more
than a year, after Moody’s Investors Service’s warning that it
may downgrade Spain revived concern about sovereign debt and
snuffed out an earlier rally.  
 Alcoa Inc. ,  Walt Disney Co.  and  Hewlett-Packard Co.  lost at
least 2.3 percent to  lead  losses in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average after Moody’s said Spain’s Aaa rating is in jeopardy.
 General Mills Inc.  slumped 3.7 percent after its forecast for
the year ending in May 2011 trailed analysts’ estimates.  
 The  S&P 500  fell 1 percent to 1,030.71 at 4 p.m. in New
York. It has declined 12 percent since March 31, breaking a
four-quarter winning streak that drove the benchmark index for
U.S. stocks up 47 percent. The  Dow  decreased 96.28 points, or 1
percent, to 9,774.02 today, giving it a second-quarter decrease
of 10 percent. The  Nasdaq-100 Index , which gets 63 percent of
its value from technology companies, slumped for an eighth
straight day, the longest stretch of losses since 2006.  
 “The glass is half empty when you’re at the end of the
quarter,” said  Wayne Wilbanks , chief investment officer at
Wilbanks, Smith & Thomas in Norfolk, Virginia, which manages
$1.5 billion. “It’s continued concerns with the economic
slowdown and global deterioration issues as highlighted by the
Spanish potential downgrade and the jobs data.”  
 ADP Report  
 Companies in the U.S. added fewer workers in June than
forecast, according to data today from ADP Employer Services.
Shares had advanced earlier after the European Central Bank said
it will lend the region’s banks less money than economists had
forecast, spurring speculation the region’s lenders are stronger
than had been expected. The S&P 500 had gained as the Institute
for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s business barometer showed
manufacturing is overcoming turmoil in financial markets.  
 Any gains today were limited after companies in the U.S.
added fewer workers in June than forecast, according to data
from a private report based on payrolls. The 13,000 gain
followed a revised 57,000 increase the prior month, data from
ADP Employer Services showed today. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News had anticipated an increase of 60,000, according
to the median forecast.  
 The ADP data came as investors awaited a Labor Department
report July 2 that will show the U.S. lost jobs for the first
time this year, reflecting a drop in federal census workers as
the population count began to wind down, economists said.  
 European Bank Loans  
 U.S. futures rallied in trading before the open of
exchanges after the European Central Bank said banks sought
131.9 billion euros ($161.8 billion) in three-month loans as a
yearlong facility expires. The figure amounts to about half the
level the market was expecting to be borrowed from the central
bank, said  Jacques Porta , a fund manager at Ofi Patrimoine.  
 “This amounts to the stress test the U.S. banking industry
had last year and we didn’t,” said Paris-based Porta, who
oversees about $425 million in stocks. “European banks are one
of the weakest links in global equities. Investors were afraid
the ECB would confirm this, so it’s good news.”  
 The S&P 500 is valued at  14.9  times projected profits,
according to Bloomberg data. Shares of raw-material producers,
financial and energy companies led the decline, dropping at
least 13 percent. Alcoa,  Microsoft Corp.  and  General Electric
Co.  led the Dow’s losses in the second quarter, declining at
least 20 percent.  
 S&P 500’s Decline  
 The S&P 500 has tumbled 15 percent from this year’s high on
April 23 on concern a sovereign-debt crisis in Europe and
China’s moves to slow the world’s largest emerging economy will
dent global growth.  
 Stocks are the  cheapest  relative to bonds in three decades,
a sign it’s time to buy,  Michael Darda , the chief economist for
MKM Partners LLC, said in a phone interview.  
 “From a risk-reward standpoint these are good entry
prices,” said  Robert Doll , who helps oversee $3.36 trillion as
vice chairman and chief equity strategist at New York-based
BlackRock Inc. “I think the risk of a double-dip recession is
low.”  
 The S&P 500 has in recent days been testing levels watched
by analysts who study charts and patterns. S&P 500  futures 
rebounded at 1,035 in May and at 1,038 earlier this month. The
S&P 500 fell as low as 1,028.33 at 3:45 p.m. in New York, the
lowest price since Oct. 2, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The S&P 500’s decline in the past two weeks started
after the index failed to stay above a level identified by chart
analysts as bullish: its average price in the past 200 days.  
 Wal-Mart, Monsanto  
 All 10 groups in the S&P 500 declined today.  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.  slipped 1.7 percent to $48.07. The world’s biggest
retailer may sell debt in a three-part benchmark offering,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The 5-, 10-
and 30-year bonds may be sold as soon as today.  
 Monsanto Co.  slumped 2.4 percent to $46.22. The world’s
largest seed company posted a 45 percent drop in third-quarter
profit as its Roundup herbicide lost money and corn-seed
earnings fell.  
 General Mills retreated 3.7 percent to $35.52. The maker of
Lucky Charms cereal and Progresso soup reported a 41 percent
drop in fourth-quarter profit and gave an earnings forecast for
the year ending in May 2011 that trailed analysts’ estimates.  
 AT&T Inc.  lost 1.1 percent to $24.19. The largest U.S.
phone company is losing its exclusive claim on  Apple Inc. ’s
iPhone. Analysts say  Verizon Wireless  may sell as many as 12
million next year after it begins offering the device and widen
its lead over AT&T. Verizon, the largest U.S. mobile-phone
carrier, dropped 2.1 percent to $28.02.  
 3M, Ford  
 3M Co. , the maker of 55,000 products from Post-It Notes to
Scotch tape, was the only company to gain in the Dow. It
advanced 0.6 percent to $78.99 as business activity in the U.S.
expanded in June for a ninth straight month. Deere & Co., the
world’s farm equipment maker, increased 0.5 percent to $55.68.  
 Ford Motor Co.  gained 2 percent to $10.08. The second-
largest U.S. automaker said it will pay about $3.8 billion in
cash to a union health-care fund today, a sign the company is
confident that Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally ’s focus on
the namesake brand will generate cash.  
 Companies involved in trying to halt the flow of oil from a
ruptured  BP Plc  well in the Gulf of Mexico rallied after the
first hurricane of the season headed away from the area.  
 BP increased 4.4 percent to $28.88.  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. , the Texas oil company that owns a 25 percent stake in
BP’s well, fell 1.6 percent to $36.09.  Halliburton Co.  advanced
0.3 percent to $24.55.  
 Other oil drillers also gained.  Baker Hughes Inc.  increased
1.8 percent to $41.57.  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc.  rose 3.4
percent to $62.19.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. Stocks Retreat  
                       
                         
                           Jin Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. stocks fell, extending the first quarterly drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in more than a year. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. stocks fell, extending the first quarterly drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in more than a year. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Chicago-based Harris Private Bank, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman and Marc Crumpton about the U.S. stock market, economy and labor market. (This report is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Bill Fleckenstein, president of Fleckenstein Capital Inc. in Seattle, talks about the outlook for the U.S. stock market and his belief that the market has evolved into a "speculative casino" that no longer discounts problems.
     Fleckenstein speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Jeffrey Saut, chief investment strategist at Raymond James & Associates, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for U.S. stocks and the nation's economy.
     Saut, speaking from St. Petersburg, Florida, also discusses U.S. House of Representatives' approval of the financial-overhaul bill and its implications for the banking industry. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
