-- BOJ Cooperation Crucial to Ending Deflation, Strategy Minister Arai Says
-- Tatsuo Ito
-- 2010-06-30T08:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/strategy-minister-arai-says-boj-cooperation-crucial-to-ending-deflation.html

          
          
             Japan’s National Strategy Minister
 Satoshi Arai  said overcoming deflation is the country’s biggest
challenge and cooperation with the central bank is crucial.  
 “Stamping out deflation is our top policy priority,” Arai
told reporters today in Tokyo, reiterating the government’s goal
of eradicating price declines by the year ending March 2012.
“Our research has found that the deflation lingering over the
past two decades has weakened the country’s fiscal and social
welfare systems.”  
 Arai’s remarks are the latest from government officials
urging support from the Bank of Japan to arrest the slide in
prices that is hampering the economic recovery. He said Japan’s
rebound has been driven by foreign demand and is yet to sustain
itself, while it’s too early to decide whether additional
stimulus measures are needed.  
 Arai, who took the portfolio this month, also said he’s
“very concerned” about the recent slump in Japan’s stock
market, adding that he’s watching global financial-market
movements because they are influencing the decline.  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  tumbled 2 percent today to
9,382.64, the lowest level in seven months, as a drop in U.S.
consumer confidence fueled concern about the prospects for the
global recovery. The yen traded near the strongest level in
eight years against the euro and an eight-week high versus the
dollar, threatening to erode exporters’ profits.  
 Keeping Watch  
 The current stock slump and the yen’s rise are “mostly
attributable” to concerns about the state of the U.S. economy
and a decline in European equities stemming from the region’s
government debt crisis, Arai said. “We must keep a close watch
on the development of overseas economies.”  
 He said it’s not clear how long the yen will keep gaining
and the currency’s strength “may be temporary.”  
 Arai, who is also economic and fiscal policy minister, said
the government hopes to work with the central bank even after
deflation is over. Interest-rate policy is up to the BOJ, which
is responding to government efforts “by implementing various
measures” and doing its best to support the economy, he said.  
 Japan’s central bank has kept the benchmark interest rate
at 0.1 percent since December 2008, and has since injected cash
into the economy by providing low-interest loans to banks. This
month it unveiled a 3 trillion-yen ($34 billion) program to
encourage lending to companies.  
 Prime Minister Naoto Kan this month released a plan for
faster growth that urged the Bank of Japan to make “utmost
efforts” to beat deflation. Consumer prices excluding fresh
food, the central bank’s preferred gauge of inflation, fell for
a 15th consecutive month in May.  
 Data released this week indicated the recovery of the
world’s second-largest economy may be losing steam. The
 unemployment rate  climbed to a five-month high in May, while
industrial production and household spending dropped.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mayumi Otsuma  in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Japan's National Strategy Minister Satoshi Arai speaks during an interview in Tokyo. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
