-- Strasburg to All-Star Team Gives Washington Latest Chance as Baseball Town
-- Curtis Eichelberger
-- 2010-06-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/strasburg-to-all-star-team-gives-washington-latest-chance-as-baseball-town.html

          
          
             Washington Nationals  rookie  Stephen Strasburg ’s inclusion in the All-Star Game would help Major
League Baseball build its fan base in the nation’s capital.  
 The franchise hasn’t had a winning season since moving to
Washington from Montreal in 2005, and its average home
attendance of 23,287 ranks 22nd of baseball’s 30 clubs.  
 The team has sold out three home games this year: opening
day and two starts of Strasburg, the 2009 No. 1 overall draft
pick. In five big-league games, the 21-year-old is 2-2 with a
2.27 earned run average. He struck out 41 in his first four
games, breaking  Herb Score ’s record. An All-Star appearance will
shine a spotlight on Strasburg and his teammates, raising
interest in one of the worst franchises in baseball.  
 “He is breeding Nationals fans,” said  Vince Gennaro , 58,
a Purchase, New York-based consultant who helped the Cleveland
Indians redesign their ticket business last year. “An
appearance in the All-Star Game will only enhance that.”  
 The club hasn’t given fans much to cheer about. After going
81-81 in their first season in Washington, the team hasn’t had a
winning season since, losing 134 more games than they’ve won.
They were last in their division every year except 2007, when
they finished next-to-last.  
 The city has lost two other baseball franchises: The
original Washington Senators moved to Minnesota and became the
Twins in 1961; and the replacement franchise moved to Arlington,
Texas, and became the Rangers in 1972.  
 Redskins Lead  
 The National Football League’s Washington Redskins are the
most popular professional team in the market, according to a
study by Haddonfield, New Jersey-based Turnkey Sports &
Entertainment. The Nationals are least popular among the four
teams in the Washington area, which includes basketball’s
Wizards and hockey’s Capitals.  
 The 81st All-Star Game will be played on July 13 in
Anaheim, California. Fan voting on MLB.com ends tomorrow at
11:59 p.m. New York time.  
 In the National League, fans select the starting lineup
except for the pitcher. Players select eight fielders and eight
pitchers -- five starters and three relievers. Manager  Charlie Manuel  of the Philadelphia Phillies picks five pitchers, four
position players and he’ll submit five candidates for the final
spot on the team. That’s 34 All-Stars.  
 Manuel has said he’s watching Strasburg and will wait to
see if he continues performing at a high level before making a
decision about adding him to the NL lineup. In his most recent
start, against the Atlanta Braves on June 28, he allowed three
earned runs in 6 1/3 innings and took the loss.  
 Building the Business  
 Helping the Nationals build their business may be the best
reason for putting a player as inexperienced as Strasburg on the
roster for a game that is reserved for the best in the sport,
said  Marc Ganis , president of Sportscorp Ltd. in Chicago, a
sports business consulting firm.  
 “This is a way for baseball to support the franchise and
for fans around the country to see this is an up-and-coming team
with some good young players,” Ganis said in an interview.  
 Neither Nationals President  Stan Kasten  nor Chief Operating
Officer  Andrew Feffer  were available to comment, said
spokeswoman Joanna Comfort.  
 It also probably will increase television viewership,
bringing in casual fans to see what everyone else is talking
about, Ganis said.  
 Total television viewership for the All-Star Game on  News
Corp.’s  Fox network increased in each of the past four years
with 33.6 million viewers watching last summer’s 4-3 American
League victory.  
 Commercials Sold  
 Fox has sold out its advertising inventory, so while rates
can’t be increased this year, high ratings will affect next
summer’s prices,  Ed Goren , vice chairman of  Fox Sports Media
Group , said in an interview. Strasburg’s success in Washington,
the ninth-largest U.S. television market according to Nielsen
Co., will increase viewership of all baseball games, he said.  
 “It’s a sizable market to have this extra interest in,”
Goren said. “There is no question his participation in the game
will help create a buzz, a curiosity, and therefore have an
impact on viewership.”  
 With so much at stake, Strasburg’s All-Star invitation is a
no-brainer, analysts said.  
 “There is a window of opportunity here to show the
greatest young pitching prospect to come out of the major
leagues in decades,” Gennaro said. “Fans have heard about him,
they’ve seen the highlights, now they want to see him face the
best hitters.  
 ‘‘You capitalize on that interest by putting him in your
showcase event -- the All-Star Game.’’  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Michele Steele reports on Washington Nationals rookie pitcher Stephen Strasburg’s impact on the team and the potential for increased television viewership of Major League Baseball's All-Star Game if Strasburg is included in it. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
