-- Sullivan Says He Was Unaware in 2005 of AIG Swap Risk
-- Inyoung Hwang
-- 2010-06-30T20:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/sullivan-says-he-was-unaware-until-2007-of-aig-credit-swaps-risk-tripling.html

          
          
             Martin Sullivan , former chief
executive officer of  American International Group Inc. , said he
was unaware in 2005 of the tripling of risk through derivatives
at the bailed-out insurer’s Financial Products unit.  
 “My first knowledge of the super senior credit-default
swaps portfolio was sometime in 2007,” Sullivan, 55, said today
in a hearing of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in
Washington. The swaps fueled losses that forced New York-based
AIG to take a government bailout in 2008.  
 Sullivan said he was focused on improving AIG’s relations
with regulators in 2005 after replacing CEO  Maurice “Hank” Greenberg , who left amid federal and state  probes  into
accounting. The insurer’s outside auditor said Sullivan didn’t
hold his staff accountable for financial reporting matters,
according to documents released today by the FCIC.  
 Sullivan said that before 2007 he received reports about
the “totality” of the Financial Products unit without being
alerted to the specific trades that later contributed to AIG’s
near collapse. He was ousted in 2008 as the firm’s writedowns
mounted on bets that he previously said would be “manageable.”  
 “I never recognized that portfolio, and there were no
issues raised in that correspondence that would have given me
cause for concern,” Sullivan testified today.  
 ‘Lacking in Execution Skills’  
 Auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP identified Sullivan’s
weaknesses as including a “difficulty in holding people
accountable for internal control-related matters” and “making
difficult decisions,” according to  FCIC documents . The report
released today said that the auditor told then-AIG Chairman
 Robert Willumstad  in February 2008 that the insurer’s chief
financial officer should attempt to compensate for Sullivan
because he was “lacking in execution skills.”  
 Willumstad replaced Sullivan as CEO less than six months
later.  Steven Silber , a spokesman for PwC, said the company does
not comment on client matters.  
 AIG, once the world’s largest insurer, received a U.S.
bailout designed to protect banks that bought $62.1 billion in
swaps from the firm. The FCIC is reviewing decisions that led to
the insurer’s rescue as lawmakers seek to prevent another
company from accumulating so much risk that its collapse could
threaten global economic stability.  
 While the securities linked to swaps hadn’t defaulted in
late 2008, the market value of the assets collapsed, triggering
collateral calls that drained cash and pushed AIG into a rescue.  
 ‘An Understatement’  
 Robert Lewis , AIG’s chief risk officer, said he didn’t know
swaps contracts included collateral call provisions until after
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  made its first demand in July 2007,
according to the FCIC documents. When asked if the provisions
caused consternation within AIG, Lewis said, “I would say
that’s an understatement.”  
 “I only became aware of the collateral calls completely in
the latter part of 2007,” Lewis said in the hearing. “The
responsibility for liquidity risk management was not directly
under my jurisdiction.”  
 AIG was able to handle the  collateral calls  “and there was
no indication whatsoever when I left that in two months’ time,
the company was going to need government intervention,”
Sullivan said.  
 He answered questions after commission Chairman  Phil Angelides  said AIG’s swaps tied to asset-backed securities
tripled to $54 billion in the 12 months ended Dec. 31, 2005.  
 Angelides, who will report the commission’s findings to
Congress and President  Barack Obama  in December, said Sullivan
should have known more about risk at AIG.  
 ‘Failure of Leadership’  
 “We will probably debate on this panel many, many issues,
but I do not think that the failure of leadership and effective
management at AIG will be a matter of much debate,” Angelides
said.  
 Joseph J. Cassano , who led AIG’s derivatives unit,
testified today that he “never compromised” underwriting
standards on the swaps sold to banks including Goldman Sachs and
Societe Generale SA. Cassano, 55, was head of AIG’s Financial
Products unit until March 2008, and stepped down after Sullivan
asked him to resign.  
 Had he remained at AIG through the end of 2008, Cassano
would have “negotiated a much better deal for the taxpayer than
what the taxpayer got,” he told the commission.  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 As part of a November 2008 revision to AIG’s rescue, banks
were fully reimbursed in exchange for delivering collateralized
debt obligations linked to the $62.1 billion in swaps. The
securities were placed in a taxpayer-funded vehicle called
 Maiden Lane 3 . Cassano said that while at AIG he won concessions
from banks that demanded collateral from the insurer.  
 Cassano also defended his statements to investors
minimizing the risk AIG faced. Three years ago, AIG executives
couldn’t envision a “scenario within any kind of realm or
reason that would see us losing $1 in any of those
transactions,” Cassano told analysts then.  
 “Often repeated are my words during an earnings call in
August 2007 that I did not expect any realized, economic losses
(as opposed to unrealized accounting losses) on this
portfolio,” Cassano said in a written  statement  submitted
before the hearing. “I meant exactly what I said.”  
 Lewis testified that AIG was “wrong about how bad things
could get” in credit markets. “What ended up happening was so
extreme that it was beyond anything we had planned for.”  
 Cassano said an AIG committee that included Lewis approved
his transactions. Lewis said accountability for risks assumed by
AIG businesses resides “within the business units themselves.”  
 Goldman Sachs  
 Goldman Sachs President  Gary Cohn  and Chief Financial
Officer  David Viniar  were also slated to appear before the FCIC
during the two-day hearing. Goldman collected $12.9 billion
after the rescue from contracts with AIG.  
 Viniar has said that collateral agreements would have
helped protect the firm, among AIG’s biggest counterparties,
against default. AIG’s $182.3 billion bailout ensured that
Goldman Sachs was paid in full.  
 Cassano had shied away from public statements while
regulators investigated his role in the swaps trades. The U.S.
Justice Department and the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office dropped
probes last month, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission closed its investigation, AIG and Cassano’s lawyers
said this month.  
 Selling the swaps “was an act of incredible corporate
irresponsibility,”  Steve Kohlhagen , a former finance professor
at the University of California, Berkeley, and an ex-AIG
Financial Products executive, said in prepared remarks.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Leising  in Washington at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Sullivan Says He Was Unaware in 2005 of AIG Swap Risk  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Martin Sullivan, former chief executive officer of American International Group Inc., listens during a Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission hearing on the role of derivatives in the financial crisis in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Martin Sullivan, former chief executive officer of American International Group Inc., listens during a Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission hearing on the role of derivatives in the financial crisis in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
