-- Sumo Gambling Scandal Prompts Fuji Xerox to Quit Sponsoring Ancient Sport
-- Anna Mukai
-- 2010-07-01T06:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/sumo-loses-third-sponsor-after-wrestlers-admit-to-gambling-on-baseball.html

          
          
             Fuji Xerox  became at least the fifth
company to pull its sponsorship of Japan’s  sumo  wrestlers as the
sport’s governing authority battles to stem the fallout of a
betting scandal.  
 Japan’s biggest maker of color copiers yesterday canceled
prizes for winning wrestlers worth 540,000 yen ($6,100) for a
tournament scheduled to begin July 11 in Nagoya, central Japan.
It follows decisions by  Nagatanien Co. , Asahi Mutual Life
Insurance Co., IHI Corp. and Natori Co. not to sponsor the event.  
 Japan’s sumo association this week suspended Chairman
Musashigawa and 13 wrestlers after some members admitted to
illegal gambling on baseball matches. Organizers are protecting
$96 million in tournament sales and guarding against damage to a
sport already hurt by allegations of assault, trainee abuse and
drug use.  
 “The association is paying for its failure to take adequate
measures to address various incidents in the past,” Sports
Minister  Tatsuo Kawabata  told reporters in Tokyo June 29. “The
fate of sumo, with a long history, hinges on efforts by the
association from now on.”  
 Kawabata said he was concerned about links between the
sport and organized crime, including allegations that
stablemasters gave front-row tournament tickets to gangsters.  
 An investigative panel commissioned by the association has
recommended that at least two members be expelled for their
involvement in gambling.  
 The association should replace Chairman Musashigawa with
someone able to remove the influence of “socially threatening
groups,” panel member Shigeru Ito told reporters on June 27.  
 Wrestler Prizes  
 Fuji Xerox , a unit of  Fujifilm Holdings Corp. , has provided
9 prizes at each tournament held this year. Each prize is worth
60,000 yen, with the majority of the funds going to the winning
wrestlers. Sponsors can provide multiple prizes per bout, and
their names are displayed on banners carried around the ring and
read out before matches.  
 Fujifilm , which owns a 75 percent stake in Fuji Xerox,
declined 1.7 percent to 2,545 yen at the 3 p.m. close on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange. IHI dropped 2.1 percent to 140 yen. The
benchmark Topix index fell 1.6 percent.  
 “We judged there is a social impact” from the involvement
of wrestlers and stablemasters in gambling, Fuji Xerox spokesman
Masaaki Bando said today.  
 IHI ’s boilermaker unit also decided to cancel its 12 prizes
at the Nagoya tournament, spokesman  Keiichi Sakamoto  said by
phone today.  
 The sumo association has no comment to make on the
withdrawal of sponsors, a spokeswoman, who declined to provide
her name, said yesterday.  
 One-Day Tournament  
 Asahi Broadcasting Aomori Co. this week canceled a plan to
hold a one-day sumo tournament in August because of the
controversy.  
 Public broadcaster NHK, which has aired every major
tournament since 1953, has said it may cancel coverage of the
Nagoya event unless the association takes “sufficient”
measures to address the gambling issue.  
 The sumo association  forecasts  annual sales of about 8.53
billion yen this year from six tournaments, according to a
report on its website.  
 Morinaga & Co.  may also cancel its award, which is given in
a tournament in September, spokeswoman  Kaoru Nakamura  said today.  
 McDonald’s Holdings Co. Japan  isn’t considering canceling
its sponsorship, said spokesman  Kazuyuki Hagiwara  today. The
burger chain installed a custom-made seat to support the weight
of wrestlers at its restaurant near Tokyo’s sumo stadium after
it started sponsoring the sport last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        