-- Swatch Names Nayla Hayek Chairwoman of Watchmaker After Her Father's Death
-- Tom Mulier
-- 2010-06-30T14:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/swatch-names-nayla-hayek-chairwoman-of-watchmaker-after-her-father-s-death.html

          
          
             Swatch Group AG , Switzerland’s
largest watchmaker, said  Nayla Hayek  will become chairwoman,
succeeding her father, the late  Nicolas Hayek .  
 Swatch Group has prepared Nayla Hayek for the position
over the past years, the Biel-based company said in a  statement 
today. She was voted in unanimously, the maker of Omega and
Breguet watches said. Nayla Hayek becomes the only woman to
chair a company of the Swiss benchmark SMI Index.  
 Nicolas Hayek, a businessman of Lebanese origin credited
with reviving Switzerland’s watch  industry  as it faced Japanese
competition, died of heart failure on June 28 at age 82. His
children are teaming up to lead the company, with Nicolas
Hayek’s son,  Nick Hayek Jr ., filling the role of chief
executive officer since 2003.  
 “It shows the family is going ahead together: the driver
in the company will continue to be Nick, and the family will
continue to be the main shareholder,” said  Rene Weber , an
analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich. “The good point is that it
shows the two children of Nicolas Hayek are committed to the
company.”  
 Nayla Hayek became vice chairman of Swatch Group in May
and runs its Tiffany Watch unit. She joined the watchmaker’s
board of directors in 1995.  
 She studied at the European University of Montreux,
Switzerland and is known for her interest in horses. Her
connections as a member of the World Arabian Horse Organization
and as a horse judge have helped the watchmaker’s business and
marketing, Swatch Group has said on its website.  
 Sales Growth  
 Nayla Hayek is also responsible for Swatch Group’s Middle
Eastern unit centered in Dubai, the company’s Indian business,
and the Balmain brand. She became a full employee of Swatch
Group in 2007 after helping the company in an advisory role.  
 CEO  Nick Hayek Jr . joined the company after a career in
filmmaking and after he dropped out of business school. He has
overseen gains of 70 percent in  earnings per share  and 34
percent in sales since 2003, a period that includes the worst
drop in Swiss watch exports since the 1930s.  
 The Hayek family and a group of investors together own
about 41 percent of the voting rights.  
 Nayla Hayek’s son Marc is head of the company’s Blancpain
brand. Marc is a candidate to eventually replace Nick Hayek Jr.
as CEO, Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, has
said.  
 Though  Swatch Group  has a “number of battle-hardened
managers,” the one post that will be difficult to fill is a
new head for Breguet,  Alessandro Migliorini , an analyst at
Helvea in Geneva, wrote in a report yesterday. Nicolas Hayek
was chairman of that brand, one of the company’s most
expensive.  
 Swatch Group  fell 0.5 percent to 305.8 francs as of 4:04
p.m. in Zurich trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Swatch Group said Nayla Hayek will become chairwoman, succeeding her father the late Nicolas Hayek. Photographer: Adrian Moser/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
