-- Swiss Stocks Drop as U.S. Jobs Report Misses Forecast; Transocean Slides
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-06-30T16:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/swiss-stocks-climb-as-banks-advance-ubs-novartis-shares-lead-increase.html

          
          
             Swiss stocks declined for a second
day as figures from ADP Employer Services showed U.S. companies
added fewer jobs than forecast in June, overshadowing a European
Central Bank announcement that it will lend European banks less
money than economists had forecast.  
 Transocean Ltd.  sank as the U.S. Justice Department asked
it, BP Plc, and three other companies responsible for the Gulf
of Mexico oil spill to give notice if they plan to sell any
U.S.-based assets.  Lonza Group AG  fell 2 percent as Evolution
Securities downgraded its recommendation on the European
pharmaceutical industry.  
 The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  lost 16.39, or 0.3
percent, to 6,128.06. The SMI has retreated for three straight
months, losing 2.9 percent in June and dropped 11 percent in the
second quarter, amid speculation that Europe’s debt crisis may
derail the economic recovery. The broader  Swiss Performance
Index  fell 0.2 percent today.  
 “The worse-than-expected ADP number tallies with the drop-
off in consumer sentiment seen on Tuesday,”  David Semmens , an
economist with Standard Chartered Bank in New York, wrote in an
e-mail. “The sparse hiring appetite current in U.S. companies
will see GDP in the second half of 2010 slow down as the
consumer continues to disappoint in this recovery.”  
 U.S. Payrolls  
 Companies in the U.S. increased their payrolls by 13,000 in
June, according to ADP. The median estimate of 36 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was a gain of 60,000 jobs. Yesterday, the
Conference Board’s index of U.S. consumer confidence dropped
more than forecast as Americans became more pessimistic on jobs
and incomes.  
 Earlier today the Frankfurt-based ECB said it would lend
banks 131.9 billion euros ($162 billion) for three months, less
than economists predicted as a landmark yearlong loan expires.  
 Banks tomorrow need to repay 442 billion euros in 12-month
funds, the largest amount the ECB has ever awarded and a key
plank of the bank’s efforts to fight the financial crisis last
year. Demand for the three-month cash today was a litmus test
for the health of Europe’s banking system, economists said.  
 Transocean lost 3.6 percent to 51.2 Swiss francs. The U.S.
Justice Department asked Transocean, BP, Anadarko Petroleum
Corp., Halliburton Co., and Moex USA Corp. to give the
government advance notice if they planned to sell any assets
held within the jurisdiction of the U.S. authorities.  
 ‘Compelling Interest’  
 The letters, dated June 23 and provided yesterday to
Bloomberg News in response to a Freedom of Information Act
request, said the U.S. has a “compelling interest” to ensure
the companies don’t “deplete those assets that would be
available to satisfy a judgment” should the authorities sue the
companies responsible for the spill. The Justice Department
letter to Transocean called the company’s $1 billion stock
dividend program “troubling.”  
 Lonza, the world’s biggest maker of drug ingredients, slid
2 percent to 72.25 francs. Evolution Securities downgraded
Europe’s pharmaceutical companies to “neutral” from
“overweight.”  
 Compagnie Financiere Richemont SA , the world’s largest
jewelry maker, dropped along with other exporters, losing 1.2
percent to 37.95 francs.  
 Swiss Reinsurance Co. , the world’s second-largest
reinsurer, lost 1.8 percent to 44.71 francs.  
 Novartis AG  added 0.8 percent to 52.6 francs. OctoPlus NV
agreed to develop a controlled-release formulation of an
undisclosed compound for the drugmaker for an undisclosed sum.  
 Ruling Request  
 Separately, Novartis’s Ciba Vision unit asked a U.K.
appeals court to reverse a ruling in an infringement lawsuit
against Johnson & Johnson. The original ruling said that Ciba
Vision’s European patent for extended-wear contact lenses is
invalid.  
 AFG Arbonia-Forster Holding AG  advanced 3.3 percent to 22
francs as the Swiss home-appliance maker was raised to “buy“
from “neutral“ at UBS AG, which cited “an unchanged positive
construction outlook for Germany and Switzerland.”  
 Barry Callebaut AG  surged 3.3 percent to 671.5 francs as
the world’s largest maker of bulk chocolate said its third-
quarter sales rose 16 percent as the global chocolate market
improved.  
 Excluding currency swings, revenue rose 19 percent while
shipments rose 11 percent in the three months through May, the
Zurich-based company said. Shipment growth beat the 8 percent
median of three analysts’ estimates gathered by Bloomberg News.  
 “The release of slightly better-than-anticipated nine-
month top-line figures confirms the attractive growth trend of
the market leader,” Berenberg Bank said in a note.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        