-- U.K. Debt Chief Says Gilts Lifted By Being Outside Euro, Budget Helped Him
-- Andrea Catherwood
-- 2010-06-30T10:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/u-k-debt-chief-says-gilts-lifted-by-being-outside-euro-budget-helped-him.html

          
          
             U.K.  gilts  may be benefitting from
being outside of the euro region as investors seek the safest
assets amid the sovereign debt crisis, said  Robert Stheeman ,
chief executive officer of the Debt Management Office.  
 Government bonds are “still something that are highly sought
after, especially at the time of increasing volatility,”
Stheeman said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today.
“For the U.K., there is perhaps an argument to say that we may
be regarded as being slightly outside the euro zone, and
therefore benefitting.”  
 Stheeman’s remarks came after Britain raised 8 billion
pounds ($12 billion) from selling a new 30-year bond yesterday
through banks, the largest syndicated gilt offering by the debt
office to date. The agency sold the security at the lowest yield
in the target range after investors placed orders worth 13.8
billion pounds for the security.  
 The demand partly reflected investor confidence in the new
government’s fiscal policy, which Stheeman said made his job
easier. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s emergency
budget presented to the Parliament on June 22 prompted the debt
agency to reduce planned gilt sales for this fiscal year to 165
billion pounds from 185.2 billion pounds envisaged in April.
That followed an unprecedented 227.6 billion pounds of bond
sales in the previous 12 months.  
 ‘Big Reduction’  
 “That’s a big reduction,” Stheeman said. “But 165
billion is still a large amount in the overall context.”  
 Gilts outperformed their U.S. and German counterparts after
the May 6 election, which ousted the Labour Party government.
British bonds gave investors a 2.5 percent return, compared with
1.5 percent from German bonds and 2.1 percent for Treasuries,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch unit.  
 Foreign demand for gilts has been increasing, especially in
shorter-dated securities, he said.  
 “Traditionally, foreign investors focus mainly on
mainstream markets such as U.S. Treasuries and German bonds,”
Stheeman said. “They are also increasingly looking at the U.K.
market.”  
 Foreign holdings of U.K. government bonds have risen to
224.3 billion pounds at the end of last year from 216.9 billion
pounds three months before, according to data from debt agency.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        