-- U.K. Public-Sector Wages Rise Least in Almost 50 Years in Budget Squeeze
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-06-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/u-k-public-sector-wages-rise-least-in-almost-50-years-in-budget-squeeze.html

          
          
             U.K. public-sector  wages  rose by the
least in almost half a century during the quarter through May as
government departments squeezed spending to curb the budget
deficit, Incomes Data Services said.  
 The median raise in salary agreements for state workers
fell to 0.8 percent, compared with 1 percent in the quarter
through April. The result is the lowest since at least the early
1960s, the London-based pay researcher said today. Overall wages
increased by a median 2 percent.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  last week
announced the deepest spending cuts since World War II and
higher taxes to cut the U.K.’s record budget deficit. Today’s
report shows government departments are already curbing pay
before a planned two-year wage freeze starts in 2011.  
 “Our figures show that the freeze has already begun and
there is every prospect that some groups, such as local
authority staff in England and Wales, will face a three-year
freeze,”  Ken Mulkearn , editor of the IDS pay report, said in a
statement. “This is in contrast to the private sector, where
the proportion of freezes has stabilized and the number of
higher-level awards has increased.”  
 Pay freezes in the private sector account for one in 10
wage agreements, compared with two-fifths of those in the public
sector, the report showed. More than 1.3 million state workers
had their salaries frozen in the quarter.  
 Britain will shed 610,000 public-sector staff over the next
five years as the U.K. coalition government cuts spending, the
country’s new fiscal watchdog said yesterday.  
 IDS based its report on data from 127 wage agreements
covering 2,150,386 workers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        