-- U.K. House Prices Rose to Two-Year High in June, Showing `Broad Stability'
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-06-30T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/u-k-house-prices-rose-to-two-year-high-in-june-showing-broad-stability-.html

          
          
             U.K. house prices  rose for a fourth
month in June to a two-year high as the property market showed
“broad stability,” Nationwide Building Society said.  
 The  average cost  of a home increased 0.1 percent from May
to 170,111 pounds ($257,000), Britain’s biggest customer-owned
lender said in an e-mailed statement today. From a year earlier,
prices increased 8.7 percent, and they are now 8.6 percent lower
than the peak reached in October 2007.  
 With the economic recovery showing signs of keeping up
momentum, the property market has revived from a slump which
shaved a fifth off home values. Mortgage approvals still remain
at about half the level during the housing boom in 2007, and the
prospect of budget cuts pushed consumer confidence to a six-
month low on GfK NOP’s measure published today.  
 “The month of June presented a picture of broad stability
for the housing market,”  Martin Gahbauer , chief economist at
Nationwide, said in the statement. Budget measures “will
clearly put a squeeze on household disposable incomes, which are
undoubtedly an important driver of house prices” and “this
limits the scope for property values to maintain the very strong
upward momentum that we have seen over the last year.”  
 The monthly price increase was lower than the 0.3 percent
median  forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists.
Values have climbed 3 percent so far this year, Nationwide said.  
 London Market  
 House prices climbed 1.9 percent in the second quarter from
the previous three months. Gains were led by England’s southwest
region, with a 3 percent increase, and London, posting a 2.5
percent advance. Northern Ireland remained the worst-performing
area in the quarter and the only one to report a decline, with
values falling 5.7 percent.  
 Demand for homes is “broadly stable,” and supply has
increased perhaps because of the ending of a disclosure
requirement for sellers, Gahbauer said. This may help explain
weakening momentum in house prices, he said.  
 Mortgage lending  has been slow to revive and support the
housing recovery. Banks granted 49,815 loans to buy homes in
May, fewer than the economists forecast, Bank of England data
showed yesterday. Taylor Wimpey Plc, Britain’s second-largest
homebuilder by volume, said on June 28 that first-half home
sales in the U.K. will probably decline from a year earlier.  
 Consumer confidence  dropped to a six-month low in June as
Britons became more pessimistic about the economic outlook in
the face of spending cuts announced by Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  on June 22, GfK said today. Its  index
of sentiment  fell to minus 19 from minus 18 in May.  
 “Providing the economy does not suffer a relapse
recession, the net impact of the budget on the housing market
and house prices should be relatively neutral,” Gahbauer said.
“This is consistent with the relative stability seen in the
housing market during the last major fiscal consolidation in the
mid-1990s.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        