-- U.S. Mortgage Applications Rise as Rate Drop Spurs Refinancing Requests
-- Courtney Schlisserman
-- 2010-06-30T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/u-s-mortgage-applications-rise-as-rate-drop-spurs-refinancing-requests.html

          
          
             Mortgage applications in the U.S.
rose to an eight-month high as a drop in mortgage rates
propelled gains in refinancing requests.  
 The Mortgage Bankers Association’s  index  increased 8.8
percent in the week ended June 25. The Washington-based group’s
purchase gauge declined 3.3 percent to the second-lowest level
since 1997, while its refinancing gauge jumped 13 percent to the
 highest reading  since May 2009.  
 Home sales have dried up following an April 30 deadline to
sign contracts and receive a tax credit worth as much as $8,000,
indicating housing will subtract from economic growth in coming
months. Refinancing may keep climbing as Americans, facing a
jobless rate around a 26-year high, take advantage of near
record-low borrowing costs to reduce monthly payments.  
 “It’s going to take a couple of months before the home
sales numbers kind of settle down,”  Scott Brown , chief
economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in St. Petersburg,
Florida, said before the report. “You’re also seeing now a big
drop in mortgage rates so there may be some more refinancing
activity.”  
 The  share  of applicants seeking to refinance a loan rose to
76.8 percent last week, the highest level since April 2009.  
 The average rate on a  30-year  fixed loan decreased to 4.67
percent from 4.75 percent the prior week. The rate reached a
record low of 4.61 percent in March 2009 after the Federal
Reserve expanded a mortgage-purchasing plan aimed at reducing
lending rates. The program ended in March of this year.  
 Mortgage Payments  
 At the current 30-year rate, monthly payments for each
$100,000 of a loan would be about $517, down $41 from a year ago
when the rate was 5.34 percent.  
 The average rate on a 15-year fixed mortgage dropped to
4.06 percent from 4.19 percent, and the rate on a one-year
adjustable mortgage held at 7.05 percent.  
 The tax credit for first-time homebuyers, which was
extended in November to include some current owners, required
contracts be signed by April 30 and settled by June 30.  
 Reports last week signaled demand is weakening more than
anticipated. Purchases of  new homes  dropped to a record low in
May, the Commerce Department said June 23. The same month
existing houses, which are tabulated when a contract closes,
unexpectedly decreased 2.2 percent, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed. A decline in home starts and
building permits last month also reinforced the retrenchment.  
 Los Angeles-based KB Home, which targets first-time buyers,
reported a wider-than-estimated loss for the quarter ended May
31 as new orders declined 23 percent and the average price for
its houses fell 4 percent from a year ago.  
 “Homebuyers who missed the deadline seemed to step out of
the market completely,” KB Home Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said in a June 25 conference call with analysts. It’s too
early to forecast demand in the second half of the year, he
said.  
 “It’s a matter of when, not if, things are going to
improve,” Mezger said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net @bloomberg.net  
          
          


  


        