-- U.S. Two-Year Note Yields May Soon Mimic Bills, Ira Jersey Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-06-30T16:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/u-s-two-year-note-yields-may-soon-mimic-bills-ira-jersey-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             Treasury two-year note yields may
fall to 0.4 percent within two years, near the level of bill
rates, according to  Ira Jersey , director of U.S. interest-rates
strategy in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG.  
 The U.S. economy is similar to where it was in 2008, when
the Federal Reserve cut its target lending rate to virtually
zero, Jersey said today in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on
Bloomberg Surveillance. Concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis will make banks reluctant to lend has driven investors
away from higher-yielding assets, he said.  
 “If the Fed is on hold almost forever, then two-year
yields become a T-bill proxy,” said Jersey, whose firm is one
of the 18 primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed.
“Especially if you’re looking at T-bill yields that are going
to remain in the teens or even in the 20s for a long time.”  
 Treasury six-month  bill  rates increased one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 0.22 percent, according to Bloomberg
generic data. The record low of 0.1106 percent was reached on
Nov. 19, 2009.  
 The two-year note’s  yield  slid earlier today to the all-
time low of 0.5856 percent as economists said the nonfarm
payrolls report later this week will show employers eliminated
125,000 jobs in June. The previous record of 0.6044 percent was
set Dec. 17, 2008, after the Fed cut its target rate for
overnight lending to a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  
 Confidence must be restored before yields climb, according
to Jersey.  
 ‘Distressed Levels’  
 “When you have very large deficits and very large debt,
and when you have countries’ bonds that are trading at
distressed levels, it’s hard to find buyers until there’s a very
clear resolution,” Jersey said.  
 The yield on 10-year notes, which dropped to less than 3
percent yesterday for the first time in more than a year, is
falling on deflation concern and the Fed’s limited ability to
deal with it, Jersey said.  
 The consumer price index dropped 0.2 percent last month in
the biggest decrease since December 2008, the Labor Department
reported June 17.  
 “Inflation you can get rid of,” Jersey said. “It might
take you a little bit of time, it might be painful, but we know
how to deal with it. The problem is that the toolkit to deal
with deflation is limited.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 Akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        