-- U.S. Lucky as International Disasters Dwarfed Domestic Losses
-- Sarah Frier
-- 2010-06-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/u-s-lucky-for-insurers-as-tornadoes-wildfires-dwarfed-by-global-losses.html

          
          
             U.S. tornado and wildfire seasons
are milder than average this year, sparing domestic insurers
like  Allstate Corp.  as overseas carriers absorbed losses from
Chile’s earthquake and the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  
 Wildfire frequency through June 28 was the  lowest  since
2003, National Interagency Fire Center data show. Tornadoes
struck 904 times this year, killing 29 people, compared with a
first-half average of 983 twisters and 69 deaths from 2007 to
2009, according to preliminary data on the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration’s  website  yesterday.  
 Catastrophes outside the U.S. this year cost insurers more
than twice as much as domestic disasters, with the February
quake causing about $7 billion in claims and the Gulf disaster
more than $1.5 billion, said  Bob Hartwig , Insurance Information
Institute president. Lower U.S. disaster costs may bolster
surplus at domestic insurers as they brace for a hurricane
season predicted to be more severe than average by the NOAA.  
 “More years than not it’s the U.S. that has the greatest
insured catastrophe loss,” Hartwig said. “Global losses
dwarfed U.S. losses this year.”  
 Insurers spent $2.6 billion on U.S. first-quarter
catastrophes, down about 18 percent from the same period in
2009, according to the Property and Casualty Insurers
Association of America. Tornadoes are typically most frequent
from April through June, while the worst wildfires tend to occur
from June through October.  
 AIG, Allstate  
 Allstate, the largest publicly traded U.S. home and auto
insurer, may post operating earnings per share of 98 cents for
the quarter ending today, compared with 55 cents in the same
period last year, according to the average estimate of 19
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Last year, the Northbrook,
Illinois-based insurer had  record second-quarter claims , with
five events costing $50 million or more.  
 American International Group Inc., which gets most of its
 revenue  outside the U.S. and has been scaling back in the
country with the sale of its domestic auto-insurance unit, may
post a  profit decline . The New York-based company will earn 99
cents a share in the second quarter, according to two analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, compared with $2.57 a year earlier.  
 Lloyd’s of London has said its insurers will pay $300
million to $600 million tied to the explosion of the Deepwater
Horizon Rig that caused the leak in the Gulf of Mexico in April.
European reinsurers such as Munich Re and  Swiss Reinsurance Co. 
have disclosed the highest claims from the Chile quake.  
 “If we did business in other countries, obviously we’d
have more losses,” said  Dick Luedke , spokesman for Bloomington,
Illinois-based State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. The
policyholder-owned insurer reports earnings once a year.  
 ‘We’ve Been Lucky’  
 California, which endured the country’s costliest wildfires
in 2007 and 2008, was spared from severe blazes so far this year
because there was enough rain to dampen vegetation, said Julie
Hutchinson, a battalion chief for the  California Department of
Forestry and Fire Protection .  
 “We’ve been lucky,” she said. “The threat hasn’t
stopped, but it’s been delayed and lessened.”  
 The second half of the year is typically riskier for U.S.
insurers because of hurricanes. This year’s Atlantic storm
season may be the most active since 2005, which was the worst on
record with more than 1,500 U.S. deaths and $115 billion in
damage, Moody’s Investors Service said this month. The season
began June 1 and ends Nov. 30.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrier@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A home destroyed by a tornado Oklahoma  
                       
                         
                           Brett Deering/Getty Images 
                         
                         Shelby Bradford stands next to the debris of her trailer home destroyed by a tornado  in Oklahoma. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Shelby Bradford stands next to the debris of her trailer home destroyed by a tornado  in Oklahoma. Photographer: Brett Deering/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
