-- Unfunded Pensions Won't Cause Municipal Insolvency, Report Says
-- Darrell Preston
-- 2010-06-30T16:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/unfunded-pension-liabilities-won-t-cause-municipal-insolvency-report-says.html

          
          
             Unfunded public pension liabilities
won’t result in defaults by municipal bond issuers because the
problem isn’t severe enough to cause financial distress, a
report by Herbert J. Sims & Co. analyst  Richard Larkin  said.  
 State and city retiree funds aren’t insolvent and forecasts
of widespread defaults and municipal bankruptcies are overblown,
Sims said in the report. A historic review of pension history
shows that underfunding hasn’t led to “budgetary insolvency and
default,” the report said yesterday.  
 Separately, Standard & Poor’s said in its own report today
that the funded pension level for state plans fell to 80 percent
in 2008 from 83 percent in 2007 and 100 percent in 2000. The
funded ratio is the amount of assets available to pay expected
future benefits.  
 “There have been a lot of observers who are predicting a
meltdown of the municipal bond market, citing unfunded pension
liabilities as the leading reason,” Larkin said in an e-mail.
“An unfunded pension liability will not by itself lead to
immediate financial crisis or insolvency.”  
 The Herbert J. Sims report said “uninformed observers”
have been citing unfunded obligations as a “bubble” that will
lead to the next bond market crisis. The only situation in which
a city or state might be in financial crisis would be when a
municipality failed to save any money toward its future retiree
costs, Larkin said in the e-mail.  
 The report acknowledges the liabilities need to be
addressed to avoid passing on rapidly rising costs to future
generations. Such shortfalls have occurred in the past and will
again in the future, the report said.  
 Pension Assets  
 Meanwhile, S&P said the decline in public pension assets
that began in fiscal 2008 is “contributing to significant
budget challenges for U.S. states.”  
 States face having to increase funding for pensions even
though federal stimulus payments to states are ending and
“before meaningful revenue recovery has taken hold,” the S&P
report said, according to a press release.  
 “This shortfall in assets is causing many states to
rethink core services, programs and benefit levels, including
pensions,” said S&P managing director  Robin Prunty , in a
prepared statement in the press release.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        