-- Hungary's Government Seeks New `Precautionary' IMF Loan in 2011, FN Says
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-06-30T07:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/hungary-s-government-seeks-new-precautionary-imf-loan-in-2011-fn-says.html

          
          
             Hungary is seeking a new,
“precautionary” loan from the International Monetary Fund in
2011 to shore up market confidence, said  Gyorgy Szapary , an
economic adviser to Prime Minister  Viktor Orban .  
 Hungary doesn’t plan to draw funds from the emergency loan
package it obtained in 2008 from the IMF, the European Union and
the World Bank nor from a new IMF loan, Szapary said in an
interview published by the news website  FN.hu  today. He said the
government is seeking to extend the current arrangement by two
months to the end of this year, FN reported.  
 “A precautionary loan would strengthen market confidence,
which could reduce risk premiums and allow Hungary to take out
cheaper loans on foreign markets,” Szapary said, according to
the transcript of the interview posted on  FN’s website .  
 Hungary’s 20 billion-euro ($24.5 billion) bailout, obtained
two years ago to avert a default during the credit crisis,
expires in October. The government needs to reduce the budget
deficit to qualify for the loan.  
 The  budget target  approved by the IMF and the EU for this
year is 3.8 percent of gross domestic product, compared with a
shortfall of 4 percent last year. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ,
who took power a month ago, pledged to meet this year’s goal
after the forint plunged earlier this month over investor
concern about Hungary’s fiscal health.  
 Orban sought permission from the IMF and the EU to raise
the deficit target. European Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso  on June 3 said Hungary was in a “delicate situation” and
urged the government to continue fiscal consolidation.  
 “The budget deficit is a key condition,” of a new IMF
agreement, Szapary, a former central bank vice president, said
according to FN. “I expect that the deficit can be reduced to
the planned level.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net 
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        