-- Hungary Records Fourth Consecutive Quarterly Surplus on Current Account
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-06-30T06:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/hungary-records-fourth-consecutive-quarterly-surplus-on-current-account.html

          
          
             Hungary recorded its fourth
consecutive  current-account surplus  in the first quarter after
the worst recession since 1991 curbed demand for imports and
European Union transfers helped improve the balance.  
 The surplus was 344 million euros ($420 million), compared
with 446 million euros in the fourth quarter and a deficit of
778 million euros in the year-ago period, the  Magyar Nemzeti
Bank  said today. The median estimate of seven analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was for a 212 million-euro surplus.  
 Hungary recorded its first full-year current-account
surplus last year since records started in 1995 after an
economic contraction of 6.3 percent cut consumer demand and
companies imported fewer parts and raw materials as they scaled
back output. Growth resumed in the fourth quarter and
accelerated in the first three months of this year.  
 “The surplus on real economic transactions continued to be
higher than the deficit on the income account,” the central
bank said. “In each of the last three quarters, seasonally
adjusted export revenue and import expenditure both exceeded the
levels recorded in the preceding quarters.”  
 The balance of European Union transfers contributed 660
million euros to Hungary’s financing capacity, the bank said.
The country’s external financing capacity, the combined surplus
on its current and capital accounts, was 793 million euros, or a
seasonally adjusted 2.7 percent of gross domestic product.  
 The central bank’s foreign exchange reserves totaled 33.9
billion euros at the end of March. Hungary became the first
member of the 27-nation bloc to receive an  International
Monetary Fund -led bailout in 2008, lining up a 20 billion-euro
loan package to avert a default during the credit crisis.  
 The current account, the widest measure of the difference
between money flowing into the country and funds going out, has
showed a narrowing deficit before swinging into a surplus in the
second quarter of last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        