-- Hungary's Forint Ends Longest Selloff in Year on IMF Loan, Deficit Pledge
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-06-30T16:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/hungary-s-forint-ends-longest-selloff-in-year-on-imf-loan-deficit-pledge.html

          
          
             The forint rallied, ending a six-day
selloff, after a Hungarian official said the country is seeking
a new international loan to reassure investors and the finance
minister said the government will meet budget-deficit targets.  
 The world’s worst-performing currency this quarter jumped
0.8 percent to 284.87 per euro as of 6 p.m. in Budapest, the
biggest gain among more than 170 global currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The forint tumbled 2.9 percent in the previous six
days, its longest series of declines in 13 months.  
 Hungary is seeking a new, “precautionary” loan from the
International Monetary Fund in 2011 to boost market confidence
and cut government borrowing costs,  Gyorgy Szapary , an economic
adviser to Prime Minister Viktor Orban, said in an interview
with FN.hu today. The country doesn’t plan to draw funds from
the bailout obtained in 2008 and expiring in October, nor from
the new loan, Szapary told the news site.  
 “Today’s news should be positive for the markets, as an
IMF agreement provides a solid anchor for fiscal prudence and
reduces risks to financial stability,” Nordea Bank AB analyst
 Anders Svendsen  in Copenhagen wrote in a client report today.  
 Hungary, which has the highest level of public debt among
the European Union’s eastern members, was the first nation in
the bloc to ask for an international bailout during the credit
crisis in 2008. The country roiled markets this month after
government officials compared its finances to those of Greece.  
 Current Account  
 Hungary will be able to narrow its deficit within the IMF-
approved target of 3.8 percent of gross domestic product,
Economy and Finance Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy said today. The
government “hopes” to conclude negotiations with lenders on a
planned tax on the financial industry within “days” and
approved a plan to ban foreign-currency mortgages, he said. In
exchange for the tax, Hungary may take over some of lenders’ bad
foreign-currency loans, Matolcsy said.  
 The forint and Romania’s leu yesterday tumbled to their
weakest levels against the Swiss franc, and the Polish zloty
fell to a 15-month low against the Swiss currency.  
 Hungary had a current-account surplus of 344 million euros
($420 million) in the first three months of the year, compared
with 446 million euros in the fourth quarter and a deficit of
778 million euros in the year-ago period, the central bank said
today. The median estimate of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 212 million-euro surplus. It was the fourth
straight quarterly surplus.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        