-- Hungary Seeks to Help Banks Handle Bad Loans in Exchange for Extra Levy
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-06-30T16:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/hungary-seeks-to-help-banks-handle-bad-loans-in-exchange-for-extra-levy.html

          
          
             Hungary seeks to help banks with
non-performing loans and give them “oxygen” to pay an extra
tax, a key part of the Cabinet’s plan to meet a creditor-
approved budget deficit, Economy Minister Gyorgy Matolcsy said.  
 The Cabinet is in talks with banks to take over some of the
non-performing foreign-currency loans in a national asset
management company, Matolcsy said at a press conference in
Budapest today. In exchange, banks must agree not to pass on the
cost of the new tax to customers and not to cut back corporate
lending, he said.  
 The plan “would result in the freeing up of provisions to
such an extent that would allow banks to pay” the extra tax,
Matolcsy said. The government hopes to reach a final agreement
with the banks on the tax “within days” and hopes to draw up a
plan on bad foreign currency loans by Aug. 31, he said.  
 Hungary, which obtained a 20 billion-euro ($24.6 billion)
International Monetary Fund-led bailout in 2008 to avert a
default, needs to cut its  deficit  to 3.8 percent of economic
output to qualify for the loan. The government also wants to
take out a “precautionary” IMF loan for 2011 after the current
bailout expires in October, Matolcsy said.  
 Prime Minister Viktor Orban wants to raise 187 billion
forint ($807 million) this year from the special tax on
financial institutions to meet the budget target. Commercial
banks would pay 120 billion forint, insurers 36 billion forint
and other financial institutions 30 billion forint, Matolcsy
said. Financial institutions would have to pay the same amount
next year, he said.  
 The basis of the tax will be total assets at the end of
2009 for commercial banks while insurers will have to pay the
levy based on their net fee income, the minister said.  
 The government also banned foreign-currency household
mortgages, starting tomorrow, to reduce the country’s
vulnerability to exchange-rate swings. The government also
approved plans today to achieve savings of 120 billion forint in
the public sector, Matolcsy said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        