-- Munis Underperform Treasuries With Default Concern Raising Risk Premium
-- Darrell Preston
-- 2010-06-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/munis-underperform-treasuries-with-default-concern-raising-risk-premium.html

          
          
             Municipal bonds underperformed U.S.
Treasuries in the first half as default speculation drove state
and local government  yields  to the highest level relative to
government bonds in 13 months.  
 Ten-year municipal bond yields rose to 100 percent of
Treasuries for the first time since May 2009, from 80 percent
six months ago, according to Municipal Market Advisors data.
Investors bought Treasuries, pushing two-year yields to a  record
low  this week, on signs of slowing global economic growth and
amid protests in Europe over austerity measures.  
 The cost of contracts insuring against losses in municipal
bonds almost doubled in the past two months, led by  Illinois .
Greece and Spain led a surge in the cost of protecting sovereign
debt.  
 “The Treasury market rallied its brains out,” said  Brian Battle , vice president of trading for Performance Trust Capital,
a Chicago-based institutional portfolio adviser. “Munis haven’t
followed as much.”  
 Financial pressure on states and municipalities has built
as revenue fell in the wake of the recession. More than two-
thirds of states had a drop in revenue last quarter over the
same period in 2009, the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of
Government said this month. States will have confronted $296.6
billion of budget deficits from 2009 to 2012, the National
Governors Association and National Association of State Budget
Officers  said .  
 Pennsylvania Capital  
 Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, capital of the sixth most-
populous U.S. state, has considered filing for bankruptcy
protection in the face of $68 million in debt payments tied to
an incinerator project.  
 Illinois, whose $13 billion deficit is about half its
budget, had the cost of insuring its debt against default more
than double since early April, to a record of 370 basis points,
or $370,000 to protect $10 million of debt, according to CMA
DataVision. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 “You’ve gotten a lot of negative press about municipal
bonds,” said  J.R. Rieger,  vice president of fixed-income
indexes at S&P in New York. “Yields have been driven down on
U.S. Treasury bonds due to a flight to quality.”  
 Investors in the $2.8 trillion municipal-bond market on
average earned 3.13 percent this year through June 28, compared
with about 7.3 percent in the same period of 2009, according to
 S&P’s Investortools Municipal Bond Main Index .  Treasuries 
brought in about 5 percent, according to S&P. Corporate bonds
returned 5.8 percent, Credit Suisse’s  Liquid U.S. Corporate Bond
Index  shows.  
 Default Ratio  
 Municipal investors may be worrying unduly given the debt’s
low default ratio relative to other asset classes, said Battle
at Performance Trust and  Jim Colby , a senior municipal
strategist for New York-based Van Eck Associates, which has
about $515 million of municipal bonds. Companies are 98 times
more likely to default than muni issuers over a 10-year period,
data from Moody’s Investors Service show.  
 The volume of municipal defaults has also declined.
Nineteen issuers have defaulted on about $1 billion of municipal
debt this year, the Distressed Debt Securities Newsletter
reported in its June issue. In the two previous years a combined
$14.5 billion defaulted, a rate of $3.6 billion every six
months.  
 There is a limit to how much municipal yields will fall as
Treasury yields decline, said  Matt Fabian,  a managing director
at Concord, Massachusetts-based MMA.  
 Ten-year top-rated municipal bonds  yield 3.08 percent , or
about 60 basis points below their five-year average, according
to MMA data.  
 “Must municipal buyers are income buyers, and if there is
no income, there are no buyers,” said Fabian. “Yields can’t go
much lower.”  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal debt in
the U.S.:  
 DELAWARE RIVER PORT AUTHORITY , the regional transportation
agency that owns and operates four toll bridges linking
Pennsylvania and New Jersey, plans to offer $320 million in
Build America Bonds tomorrow to finance capital improvements.
The bonds, rated fourth-lowest at A3 and A- by Moody’s and S&P,
respectively, will be used for capital-improvement projects and
to refinance debt. Citigroup Inc. will lead a group of
underwriters in marketing the securities. (Updated June 30)  
 LOS ANGELES COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT, the nation’s
largest two-year system, with about 141,000 students, is
scheduled to offer $125 million in taxable bonds today. The
district is rated second highest at Aa1 by Moody’s and one step
lower, at AA, by S&P. Citigroup will lead marketing of the
securities, which will be used for improvements on the
district’s nine campuses, including a green-technology student
union at Los Angeles City College and a performing-arts center
at Los Angeles Valley College. (Updated June 30)  
 NEW YORK LIBERTY DEVELOPMENT CORP., a state arm created to
finance loans for lower Manhattan construction, will sell $650
million in tax-exempt municipal bonds today to refinance debt
from the Bank of America Tower project at One Bryant Park. Bank
of America Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase & Co. will
underwrite the securities, which are top-rated by Fitch and
Moody’s. (Updated June 30)  
 U.S. VIRGIN ISLANDS, whose rum shipments to the mainland in
2009 reached 8 million “proof gallons,” a measure for
calculating federal excise tax, plans to offer about $396
million of tax-exempt debt through its public finance authority
as soon as next week. About $308 million of the issue is senior
obligations rated BBB+ by Fitch, third-lowest. The remaining
subordinate bonds are rated BBB, second-lowest. Underwriters led
by Jefferies & Co. will market the securities to investors.
(Added June 30)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        