-- Universal Health Services Plans Junk Debt as Yields Slide: New Issue Alert
-- Katie Evans
-- 2010-06-30T09:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/universal-health-services-plans-junk-debt-as-yields-slide-new-issue-alert.html

          
          
             Universal Health Services Inc., the
operator of more than 100 U.S. hospitals and other medical
facilities, plans to sell high-yield, high-risk notes as
Treasury-bond yields have fallen to their lowest this year and
investors shun the stock market.  
 Universal Health may sell $400 million of debt to help
finance its acquisition of Psychiatric Solutions Inc., according
to a June 24 company filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.95 percent
yesterday, the lowest in 14 months, on evidence of a slowing
global economic recovery. Stocks dropped, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index tumbling 3.1 percent to its lowest since
October 2009. Bonds have outperformed stocks this year, with the
exception of emerging-market equities, according to  Jeffrey Rosenberg , head of global credit strategy for Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  
 “In an environment where credit outperforms, and interest
rates are zero, there’s no incentive to get out of credit,”
Rosenberg said during a press briefing on June 28.  
 High-yield, high-risk bonds have returned 4.75 percent in
2010, including reinvested interest, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II Index. The S&P
500 has fallen 5.71 percent.  
 Spreads Widen  
 The extra yield investors demand to own junk debt instead
of Treasury bonds rose to 706 basis points from 693 basis
points, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High
Yield Master II Index. Investment-grade spreads widened 1 basis
point to 209 basis points, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  
 Rosenberg said in the presentation at his New York office
that he expects spreads on bonds to tighten through 2010 to
about 500 basis points for high-yield and 140 to 150 basis
points for investment-grade.  
 Junk bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by S&P. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 S&P cut its corporate credit rating on  Universal Health
Services  to BB from BBB- and assigned a BB+ ranking to the
company’s existing unsecured notes on June 25, citing the debt-
financed acquisition.  
 There were $980 million of junk-bond sales yesterday in the
U.S. corporate bond market and none of investment-grade debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Bankrate Boosts Offering  
 Bankrate Inc., the online consumer personal finance
network, sold $300 million of five-year notes. The North Palm
Beach, Florida-based company boosted the offering from $280
million offered earlier, according to a person familiar with the
transaction who declined to be identified because the marketing
was private.  
 DynCorp International Inc., the speculative-grade-rated
defense contractor, sold $455 million of notes that mature in
2017, and Vanguard Health Systems Inc. priced $225 million of
debt due in 2018 in a reopening of an issue originally offered
in January.  
 “People are hungry for yield because government rates are
at such a low level,” said  Martin Fridson , a global credit
strategist at BNP Paribas Asset Management in New York.  
 Companies have issued $1.26 billion of high-yield debt this
week, down from $2.43 billion in the comparable period last
week. Investment-grade sales are $450 million this week, down
from $11.2 billion.  
 Following is a description of at least $4.44 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  
 Investment Grade  
 LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC plans to sell $300 million of so-
called public income notes due 2050. The lender filed a shelf
registration on June 28 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission allowing it to sell notes to individuals in the U.S.
for the first time, according to Sara Evans, a London-based
spokeswoman for Lloyds. The notes may yield about 7.75 percent,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  
 CHILE plans to sell $1 billion of 10-year bonds, along with
warrants and peso debt, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Chile will use the proceeds
for general purposes, the filing said. The country, which hasn’t
sold international bonds in six years, is seeking financing for
repairs after a Feb. 27 earthquake and subsequent tsunami killed
more than 400 people and caused as much as $30 billion of
damage.  
 DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The money is likely to be raised for five years and is
meant to “fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance
sheet,  Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone
interview from Doha. The bank hasn’t decided which currency to
sell the bonds in, he said. The lender said in April that it
planned to sell senior notes in dollars in a statement on the
Qatari bourse, without disclosing the size of the offering.  
 FORETHOUGHT FINANCIAL GROUP INC. plans to sell $150 million
of 10-year bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. S&P assigned the notes a grade of BBB- in a March 24
report.  
 Not Rated  
 OXEA FINANCE & CY S.C.A. plans to sell the equivalent of
500 million euros of seven-year bonds in dollars and euros,
according to two people with knowledge of the offering. Proceeds
will be used to repay debt, shareholder loans and a payment to
shareholders, and for general corporate purposes, the people
said.  
 The PROVINCE OF CORDOBA, Argentina, plans to sell as much
as $350 million of bonds in international markets once the
federal government completes a restructuring of defaulted debt,
Banco de Cordoba said.  
 SENSIENT TECHNOLOGIES CORP. said it entered into an
agreement with a group of four financial institutions for the
issuance of $110 million in fixed-rate, senior notes, according
to a Nov. 19 statement distributed by Business Wire. The company
plans to issue seven-year debt to repay existing indebtedness,
Sensient said in a March 1 regulatory filing.  
 High Yield  
 INSIGHT COMMUNICATIONS CO. , the cable television operator
partly owned by Carlyle Group, plans to sell $400 million of
eight-year notes to pay a distribution to holders of its capital
stock, according to a person familiar with the transaction. The
company will use $300 million of proceeds for the distribution
and the remaining funds to repay debt, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. The debt may
yield 9.25 percent to 9.5 percent, the person said.  
 GENTIVA HEALTH SERVICES INC.  may sell $305 million of
eight-year notes, according to Moody’s Investors Service.
Moody’s assigned the notes a grade of B2 and ranked $925 million
of loans three steps higher at Ba2, it said in a report.  
 UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES INC., the operator of more than
100 U.S. medical facilities that’s buying Psychiatric Solutions
Inc., plans to sell $400 million of senior unsecured debt to
help finance the acquisition, it said in a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 PROMSVYAZBANK OJSC , Russia’s third-largest private bank,
hired banks to arrange investor meetings, according to a banker
with knowledge of the matter. S&P affirmed its B counterparty
credit rating on the company in April and revised its outlook to
positive from stable, citing “improved liquidity and
strengthening risk management.”  
 PT BERAU COAL, the Indonesian mining company, may market
five-year notes in Singapore and London, according to an e-mail
from company director Thomas Shreve. Moody’s assigned a
provisional B2 rating to the notes.  
 CKE RESTAURANTS INC. may sell $600 million of eight-year
notes, according to a person familiar with the transaction. The
senior secured second-lien notes may be sold next week, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  
 AKBANK TAS , the Turkish bank part-owned by Citigroup Inc.,
plans to sell five-year, dollar-denominated eurobonds worth up
to $1 billion, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock
Exchange.  
 CEDAR FAIR ENTERTAINMENT CO., the operator of amusement
parks that called off a takeover by an Apollo Management LP
affiliate, said it plans to sell $500 million of senior
unsecured notes due in 2020. Proceeds will be used to repay
existing debt, the Sandusky, Ohio-based company said in a May 20
statement distributed by PR Newswire.  
 IRSA INVERSIONES Y REPRESENTACIONES SA, Argentina’s biggest
real-estate company, extended an offer to sell $250 million in
10-year bonds until June 24, the company said in a regulatory
filing in Buenos Aires on June 14. S&P assigned the notes a
grade of B-, six steps below investment quality.  
 TITAN INTERNATIONAL INC., the maker of tire and wheel
systems for off-highway equipment, said it plans to sell at
least $150 million of senior unsecured notes. Proceeds will be
used to repurchase the 8 percent senior unsecured notes due in
2012 and for general corporate purposes, the Quincy, Illinois-
based company said in a May 13 statement distributed by Business
Wire.  
 INVENTIV HEALTH INC., the provider of sales and marketing
services to science companies that is being acquired by Thomas
H. Lee Partners, may sell $275 million of senior notes to back
the purchase, it said in a regulatory filing.  
 Offerings in Pipeline  
 GEORGIAN RAILWAY LTD. hired Bank of America Corp. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. for a sale of bonds in dollars, according
to a banker involved in the transaction.  
 JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  
 BANK OF EAST ASIA LTD.  hired Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. to help it sell subordinated 10-year bonds in
dollars, according to a person with direct knowledge of the
matter. The banks are meeting potential investors in Hong Kong
and Singapore, the person said.  
 URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a LatinFinance conference in
London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of 20
years or more, Steneri said.  
 MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire the same banks,
including CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc, to
arrange the sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to
be named as the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25
billion from its first Shariah-compliant dollar bond in eight
years on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  
 INDOSAT PALAPA CO., a unit of Indonesia’s second-largest
phone operator, delayed a planned dollar bond sale until market
conditions improve, a person familiar with the matter said May
26. Indosat began meetings with investors in Asia, the U.S. and
Europe on May 12 to gauge demand for a global bond sale,
according to a company statement sent to the Indonesian stock
exchange that day. Moody’s assigned a provisional Ba1 rating to
the notes and S&P rated them BB, one step lower.  
 SABIC CAPITAL , a unit of Saudi Basic Industries Corp., will
sell bonds when market conditions and rates are favorable, its
vice president for corporate finance  Mutlaq al-Morished  told al-
Arabiya television in Dubai on June 16. Sabic delayed a bond
sale because of unfavorable spreads, al-Morished said in a May
26 telephone interview. Sabic Capital had hired HSBC Holdings
Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
to manage a benchmark-sized offering.  
 GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond next
year to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production
boosts economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy
Finance Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government is considering
a “no-deal roadshow” as early as the fourth quarter to gauge
international investors’ appetite, Kwetey said in a May 26
interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its first global bond in 2007,
raising $750 million to help fund the construction of roads and
power plants.  
 ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds this
year. The southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated
at B+ by S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade.
Moody’s assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  
 EURASIAN NATURAL RESOURCES CORP. , a London-based iron ore
and alumina producer with operations in China and Russia, said
it delayed its first dollar bond sale. The company is
“postponing meetings with investors regarding a potential bond
issuance under its Euro Medium Term Note program until further
notice,” Charlotte Kirkham, a spokeswoman for ENRC, said in an
e-mail. The company had hired Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan
Stanley to manage the sale, according to a person familiar with
the transaction.  
 KAZAKHSTAN plans to sell between $500 million and $750
million in bonds to investors abroad in the autumn, Kazakh
Finance Minister  Bolat Zhamishev  said in a May 14 interview. The
bonds will probably be denominated in dollars and will be used
to set a benchmark for corporate borrowing, Zhamishev said.  
 QATARI DIAR REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT CO. may raise about $1.5
billion by selling global bonds backed by Qatar, according to a
person familiar with the sale plan. The developer may offer 10-
year conventional bonds and 5-year Islamic securities, said the
person who declined to be identified because details of the
transaction haven’t been completed. HSBC Holdings Plc and
Barclays Capital are among banks expected to manage the sale,
according to the person.  
 CHINA ORIENTAL GROUP CO.  plans to sell senior notes to
provide working capital and possibly to finance the purchase of
steel mills and iron ore assets in China. Deutsche Bank AG will
manage the sale with ING Groep NV, according to a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange.  
 OAO SBERBANK , Russia’s biggest lender, may sell $1 billion
of dollar-denominated bonds for the first time in two years when
debt markets improve, Deputy Chief Executive Officer Anton
Karamzin said. Sberbank will consider selling $1 billion of
“five-year senior unsecured” notes to establish a benchmark
“if the price is right,” Karamzin said. Sberbank hired DZ Bank
AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
for the sale of five-year bonds, according to two people with
knowledge of the transaction said April 29.  
 BANK FOR INVESTMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF VIETNAM received
approval from the central bank to issue 7 trillion dong ($369
million) of notes and another 3 trillion dong of dollar-
denominated notes in 2010, according to a statement on State
Bank of Vietnam’s Web site.  
 BOLIVIA plans its first international bond sale in more
than 70 years as early as the end of 2011, Finance Minister  Luis Arce  said. He didn’t disclose the size of the offering.  
 KOREA FINANCE CORP.  hired BNP Paribas SA and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it sell dollar bonds backed by Korean
residential mortgages, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The banks will help arrange meetings with investors
in Asia, Europe and the U.S., the person said. Edaily reported
in April that the company planned to sell $100 million to $200
million of foreign-currency bonds in its first overseas debt
sale since October, without citing anyone. The state-run agency
also plans to sell $1 billion of global bonds in the U.S., the
Korean-language online newspaper said.  
 PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL , the Thai oil explorer,
hired Credit Suisse Group AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc to help it sell global bonds, according to two people
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified as the
plan is private.  
 POWER SECTOR ASSETS AND LIABILITIES MANAGEMENT CORP. of the
Philippines may sell between $750 million and $1.5 billion of
dollar-denominated bonds “anytime” to help refinance maturing
debt through next year, Vice Chairman  Jose Ibazeta  said. The
company manages the finances of state utility National Power
Corp.  
 BRISBANE AIRPORT CORP., owner of Australia’s third-busiest
airport, may sell bonds in the U.S. later this year as it
pursues new markets to help refinance debt and pay for a new
runway. The company is considering a 10- or 15-year U.S. private
placement and a five- to seven-year Australian dollar bond sale
in late 2010 or early 2011, Chief Financial Officer  Tim Rothwell 
said in a phone interview from Brisbane.  
 VIETNAM NATIONAL COAL-MINERAL INDUSTRIES GROUP, the state-
owned coal producer known as Vinacomin, plans to sell as much as
$500 million of bonds overseas this year to fund mining and
energy projects, according to Deputy Chief Executive Officer
 Nguyen Van Hai .  
 FINLAND may sell five-year bonds denominated in dollars
this year, the Finnish Treasury said in a document posted on its
Web site.  
 POLAND may sell dollar bonds if markets stabilize, Deputy
Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said. The European Union
member earlier planned to sell $1 billion in five-year debt
denominated in the U.S. currency as early as April.  
 MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds this
year and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be
sold according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales this year
after Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment
banks are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5
to 10 years, Bayartsogt said in a Feb. 9 interview. The
securities may yield between 8 percent to 11 percent, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Evans  in New York at 
 Kevans28@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        