-- Turkish Economic Growth Accelerates to 11.7%, Fastest Pace in Six Years
-- Steve Bryant
-- 2010-06-30T09:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/turkish-economic-growth-accelerates-to-11-7-fastest-pace-in-six-years.html

          
          
             Turkish  economic growth  accelerated
in the first quarter, recouping most of the output lost in last
year’s slump as domestic demand drove the fastest annual
expansion in almost six years.  
 Gross  domestic product increased an annual 11.7 percent,
compared with 6 percent in the previous three months, the
statistics office in Ankara said on its website today. The
 median estimate  of 12 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg was for
growth of 11.5 percent. The economy expanded a seasonally
adjusted 0.1 percent from the  previous quarter , when it grew a
revised 1.7 percent.  
 The economy is recovering from a 14.5 percent slump a year
ago as record-low interest rates revive spending by Turkish
consumers and companies. First-quarter growth in the European
Union membership candidate was the fastest among the Group of 20
major economies bar China.  
 “Turkey is a bright star in the region, the only country
where we see something of a V-shaped recovery,”  Christian Keller , chief economist for European emerging markets at
Barclays Capital, told Bloomberg Television in an interview.
Barclays expects to see “a rebound and then a moderation,” he
said.  
 The lira was little changed after the announcement, trading
at 1.5796 against the dollar at 12:22 p.m. in Istanbul. Yields
on  benchmark lira bonds  were 3 basis points lower at 8.77
percent. The benchmark ISE-100 stock index was up 0.4 percent on
yesterday’s close.  
 ‘A While Longer’  
 Central Bank Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  has kept the  benchmark
interest rate  unchanged for seven months after slashing it by
10.25 percentage points in the 13 months through November last
year. The bank aims to keep it at the present level of 7 percent
“for a while longer,” and sees no reason to change its stance
because of growing concerns about the pace of Turkey’s recovery
and the state of the global economy, according to a statement
yesterday. The Monetary Policy Committee next meets on July 15.  
 Non-government consumption rose 9.9 percent in the first
quarter from the year earlier, when it slumped 10.1 percent, the
statistics agency said. Automotive production rose an annual 81
percent in the first three months of the year, according to the
manufacturers’ association.  
 Stocks Rally  
 Home appliance-maker  Arcelik AS  and lender Akbank TAS are
among Turkish companies that reported a surge in first-quarter
profit. The  main share index  has more than doubled from a low on
Nov. 20, 2008, two months after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  
 The  index  gained 5.2 percent in dollar terms in the first
quarter, more than double the increase on the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index . Net income at Istanbul-based  Arcelik , which makes
home appliances, doubled from a year earlier to 109.6 million
liras ($70 million) in the first quarter. Akbank, in which
Citigroup Inc. holds 20 percent, said profit jumped 56 percent
to 967.8 million liras.  
 Economic recovery is key to Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s  bid to win a third term in elections that must be held
before July next year. The country survived the global crisis
without bailing out any banks and this year Erdogan ended loan
talks with the International Monetary Fund, saying it can meet
its borrowing needs without external assistance.  
 The government is preparing to raise its forecast of 3.5
percent expansion for the year, Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  told parliament’s planning and budget committee on June
18. The IMF expects growth of 6.3 percent.  
 Set to Slow  
 The economy’s expansion is forecast to slow later this year
because of the European debt crisis and as unemployment remains
above pre-crisis levels. First-quarter growth of about 12
percent will “moderate” in the rest of the year, Finance
Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said on June 3.  
 Quarter-on-quarter growth slowed for the fourth consecutive
three-month period, according to today’s data.  
 That was a “surprise” that may “give the central bank
more room to delay the interest rate normalization,”  Inan Demir , chief economist for Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said in a
telephone interview.  
 The  unemployment  rate declined to 14.4 percent in the first
quarter from 16.1 percent a year earlier, the highest since
records began in 2005. It’s still above the five-year average
rate of 11.1 percent.  
 ‘Loss of Momentum’  
 “A bounce-back was inevitable but there are already signs
of a loss of momentum,” said  Cevdet Akcay , chief economist for
Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS, the Istanbul-based lender part-owned by
UniCredit SpA. “Turkey’s advantage is that it has a large
domestic market. Still, in the end it’s global dynamics that
define what happens.”  
 Confidence among Turkish manufacturers declined in May and
June, according to the  index  compiled by the central bank. July
export figures may start to reflect falling demand from
countries such as Greece, Portugal and Spain,  Mehmet Buyukeksi ,
head of the Turkish Exporters’ Assembly, said on June 23.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Christian Keller, chief economist for European emerging markets at Barclays Capital, talks about the rebound in Turkey's growth and the outlook for interest rates.
     Gross domestic product increased 11.7 percent from a year earlier,  the fastest expansion in almost six years. Keller speaks with Francine Lacqua from London on Bloomberg Television's "Startup." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
