-- Usiminas Agrees to Sell Stake in Mining Unit to Sumitomo for $1.93 Billion
-- Lucia Kassai
-- 2010-06-30T21:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/usiminas-agrees-to-sell-stake-in-mining-unit-to-sumitomo-for-1-93-billion.html

          
          
             Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA, Brazil’s second-largest steelmaker, agreed to sell a stake
in its mining and railroad businesses to  Sumitomo Corp.  for
$1.93 billion before a possible share offering in the unit.  
 Sumitomo will buy 30 percent of unit Mineracao Usiminas SA,
the Belo Horizonte, Brazil-based steelmaker said today in a
regulatory filing. The unit will own 83 percent of railroad
operator Usiminas Participacao & Logistica SA.  
 Usiminas is seeking to profit from surging iron-ore prices
by selling a stake and spinning off the unit, which the company
said may be worth $6.43 billion. Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA,
the Brazilian steelmaker known as CSN, also plans to sell shares
in its iron-ore operations.  
 “Sumitomo agreed to pay a considerable amount,”  Marcos Assumpcao , an analyst at Itau Unibanco Holding SA, said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “That reflects strong
global demand for iron ore.”  
 Usiminas will invest 4.1 billion reais ($2.27 billion) by
2015 to boost iron-ore output more than fourfold to 29 million
metric tons, Chief Executive Officer  Wilson Brumer  said today on
a conference call.  
 “Global iron-ore demand is pretty strong, prompting
clients to seek partnerships to secure supplies,” Brumer said.
The company doesn’t yet have a timeline for a public share sale
in the unit, he said.  
 Supplies  
 Tokyo-based Sumitomo follows other Asian companies buying
assets in South America to secure supplies of iron ore, the main
raw material used to make steel, as demand in China rises.  
 A group that included Posco and Nippon Steel Corp. last
year acquired a 40 percent stake in the CSN’s Namisa unit for
$3.12 billion.  
 Sumitomo paid the equivalent of about $247 a ton of iron
ore, almost twice as much as Usiminas paid in 2008 to buy mining
company Mineracao J. Mendes Ltda.,  Ivan Fadel , a Credit Suisse
analyst based in Sao Paulo, said today in a note to clients.  
 “Financially, we believe this was an excellent deal pulled
out by Usiminas management,” Fadel said.  
 The Usiminas unit owns iron-ore mines in the southeastern
Brazilian state of Minas Gerais and the Itaguai port project in
neighboring Rio de Janeiro state.  
 The railroad business includes a 20 percent voting stake in
 MRS Logistica SA , a rail operator in southeastern Brazil.  Vale
SA  and  CSN  also hold stakes in MRS.  
 CSN is seeking to spin off its mining unit to sell shares
in an initial public offering to finance expansion. The spinoff
includes iron-ore mine Casa de Pedra, 60 percent of the Namisa
mine, its stake in MRS and an iron-ore port project in Brazil,
the company said Nov. 4.  
 Usiminas fell 1.59 reais, or 3.2 percent, to 48.11 reais in
Sao Paulo trading. The stock is down 2.6 percent for the year,
compared with an 11 percent loss for Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa
index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucia Kassai  in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        