-- HMV Group's Full-Year Profit Rises 11% on Increased Sales of Blu-Ray DVDs
-- David Altaner
-- 2010-06-30T08:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/hmv-group-s-full-year-profit-rises-11-on-increased-sales-of-blu-ray-dvds.html

          
          
             HMV Group Plc , the music and DVD
retailer that also owns Waterstone’s bookstores, said full-year
profit rose 11 percent as it sold more Blu ray-format DVDs in
its home U.K. and Irish markets.  
 Net income rose to 49.2 million pounds ($74 million), or
11.6 pence per share in the year ended April 24, from 44.2
million pounds, or 10.7 pence, in the same period a year
earlier, the Maidenhead, England-based company said in a
statement today on Regulatory News Service. Shares gained as
much as 7.9 percent.  
 HMV, the biggest British CD seller, acquired Mama Group Plc
in January to help it promote live music as digital music gains.
HMV profit gains in the U.K. and Ireland helped it offset
declines at Waterstone’s, where it’s seeking to revive sales
growth by giving local stores more say over book selection.  
 “HMV has long-term challenges,” wrote KBC Peel Hunt
analyst  John Stevenson  in a note to investors. “However,
management has set out a clear strategy to develop and diversify
earnings, with profit before tax underpinned by cost savings,
the new live division, new product categories and Waterstone’s
recovery.” Hunt has a “buy” recommendation on the shares.  
 HMV rose as much as 4.5 pence to 61.5 pence and traded at
60.25 pence as of 8:54 a.m. The stock has fallen by about two-
thirds over the past four years, giving the company a market
value of 255.2 million pounds.  
 “It is early days, and there are doubters, but I feel our
share price is dramatically undervalued,” Chief Executive
Officer  Simon Fox  said on a conference call with reporters.
Waterstone’s should generate a “big improvement” in profit in
the new fiscal year, he said.  
 A new Waterstone’s distribution center that was a “major
distraction” for management last year is now running smoothly,
he said. The top 20 stores have been renovated, and new graphics
have freshened the look of others, he said.  
 “Early signs are, the new direction is working,” Fox
said.  
 New 3-D DVD technology should boost Christmas 2011, because
the format won’t be easily available digitally for some time, he
added. He said Blu ray-format DVD sales doubled in the last
fiscal year.  
 HMV hopes to acquire or open one to two summer music
festivals per year as it expands its live programming, Fox said.  
 HMV said today it’s aiming to sell 3 million tickets and
generate about 15 million pounds of earnings before interest and
tax by 2012-2013 fiscal year at its live-entertainment division.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Altaner  in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        