-- Spain's Valencia Cashes in on World Cup Soccer Players to Stay in Business
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-06-30T13:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/valencia-s-soccer-club-trades-spain-world-cup-players-to-stay-in-business.html

          
          
             Valencia is cashing in on the form
of Spain’s World Cup players to stay in business.  
 The soccer club, reeling from a credit crunch and two years
of recession in Spain, agreed to trade midfielder David Silva to
Manchester City today, five weeks after releasing striker  David Villa  to Barcelona for 40 million euros ($49 million). It will
sell forward Juan Mata to Barcelona for 20 million euros, sports
newspaper Marca reported June 23.  
 The transfer fee for Silva wasn’t revealed but U.K. press
reports say it may be about 25 million pounds ($37.5 million).  
 Valencia is among teams that need to slash costs after it
racked up 550 million euros of debt through June 2009, more than
six times its annual income for the previous year, according to
a report on Spanish soccer finances by Barcelona University
professor Jose Maria Gay. Last year, the club halted work on a
new stadium when it was denied more credit by Bancaja, a Spanish
savings bank.  
 “Valencia’s debt is deadly, it’s technically bankrupt,”
Gay said in a telephone interview today. “It’s selling its
three best players to get some breathing space while it
rebuilds.”  
 Of the top 20 Spanish clubs, only Real Madrid had more debt
than Valencia last June, according to Gay’s report released last
month. The combined debt of the clubs rose 1 percent to 3.5
billion euros in the year through June 2009 as credit dried up,
he added.  
 Atletico Madrid, Sevilla and Villarreal are among other
Spanish clubs that need to cut payroll costs, the report said.  
 World Cup  
 On the field, Spanish soccer is healthier. The European
champion beat Portugal 1-0 in Cape Town yesterday with a goal by
Villa to advance to a World Cup quarterfinal against Paraguay.
Villa is joint top-scorer at the tournament with four goals in
four games.  
 Silva played in Spain’s opening game, while forward Mata
entered as a substitute against Honduras last week. The other
Valencia player in Spain’s World Cup squad is 30-year-old
defender  Carlos Marchena .  
 Valencia finished third in the Spanish league last season
behind champion Barcelona and Real Madrid to qualify for the
Champions League. City was fifth in the Premier League and
missed out on a place in the elite European competition.  
 “David Silva is one of the best midfielders in Europe,”
City coach  Roberto Mancini  told his  team’s website . “We are
showing the world that we are bringing the best players here.”  
 Calls to Valencia seeking comment went unanswered.  
 Concerned with clubs’ debts, the Spanish government plans
to install a financial regulator for its domestic league,
secretary of state for sport  Jaime Lissavetzky  said May 24.  
 “If one of these clubs that people have in their blood
disappears, it will be terrible,” Lissavetzky said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        