-- Verizon May Sell 12 Million IPhones After AT&T Exclusive Ends
-- Amy Thomson
-- 2010-06-30T20:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/verizon-may-sell-12-million-iphones-the-year-after-at-t-exclusivity-ends.html

          
          
             Verizon Wireless may sell as many as
12 million iPhones next year after the largest U.S. mobile-phone
carrier begins offering the device, widening its lead over  AT&T
Inc. , analysts say.  
 Verizon Wireless will start selling  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone to
customers in January, two people familiar with the plans said
yesterday. AT&T has had exclusive claim on the device in the
U.S. since it was introduced in 2007.  
 Verizon Wireless will likely sell about 12 million iPhones
in the first year, UBS AG analyst  John Hodulik  said in an
interview. Three to four million of those may be to customers
the company draws from other wireless carriers, he said.  
 “Not only would they sell lots to their own base, but they
would also be able to attract new gross adds from other
carriers,” said Hodulik, who is based in New York and doesn’t
own the shares, which he  rates  “neutral.”  
 Yair Reiner , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York,
said a deal with Verizon Wireless would allow Apple to sell at
least 12 million additional phones a year. That would increase
Apple’s annual revenue by more than $7 billion and  earnings  by
more than $3 a share, Reiner said in a research note.
  Charlie Wolf , an analyst with Needham & Co. in New York,
said Verizon Wireless may sell between 8 million and 9 million
iPhones a year. Analysts at Barclays Capital said in a research
note the company will probably activate 9 million iPhones in
2011, including 900,000 for customers new to Verizon.  
 AT&T Concessions  
 Verizon Wireless had  92.8 million subscribers  at the end of
the first quarter, after adding 1.6 million during the period.
AT&T, the second-largest wireless carrier, had  87 million
subscribers , after adding 1.9 million during the first quarter.  
 Natalie Kerris , an Apple spokeswoman, and  Jeffrey Nelson , a
Verizon Wireless spokesman, declined to comment.  
 AT&T made several concessions when it won exclusive rights
to the iPhone three years ago. It started off sharing wireless
service revenue with Apple, according to statements from Chief
Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  at the time, though it
discontinued that practice in 2008. AT&T allowed Apple to manage
the iTunes software loaded on the phone, a step that gave rise
to Apple’s App Store for mobile applications. And AT&T
subsidizes the iPhone, paying Apple an estimated $600 for each
phone it sells to wireless customers for $199, Hodulik said.  
 Verizon Wireless may see profit  margins  trimmed as it
begins to subsidize the iPhone, Hodulik said. Though he doesn’t
know what Verizon will pay for the device, the subsidies may
trim 10 percent off of earnings per share next year if payments
are similar to AT&T’s, he said.  
 Faster Network  
 “It will add value for shareholders as well, but they’ll
have to wait,” said Hodulik. The two people familiar with the
iPhone plans wouldn’t provide the terms of the deal.  
 Verizon Wireless, which is building a high-speed fourth-
generation network, plans to unveil several devices that will
run on the new technology in January at the Consumer Electronics
Show, CEO  Lowell McAdam  has said.  
 AT&T fell 27 cents to $24.19 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading at 4:01 p.m.  Verizon Communications Inc. ,
which co-owns the wireless company with Vodafone Group Plc,
declined 60 cents to $28.02. Apple, based in Cupertino,
California, dropped $4.64 to $251.53 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  
 Peter Thonis , a Verizon Communications spokesman, and  Mark Siegel , an AT&T spokesman, declined to comment.  
 AT&T Profit  
 The iPhone has helped AT&T add subscribers even as the U.S.
mobile-phone market nears saturation. There are enough wireless
devices for more than nine out of 10 people, according to the
 CTIA  wireless industry association.  
 In the first three months of this year, about a third of
AT&T’s iPhone activations came from customers who were new to
the carrier. Without those 900,000 new subscribers, the company
may have posted a loss in contract customers that quarter,
analysts said.  
 Still, Dallas-based AT&T has battled customer complaints
about dropped calls and other service quality issues, especially
in New York and San Francisco. The company dedicated an extra $2
billion to upgrading its  network  this year.  
 “It’s hard to ignore the quality issues that AT&T has
faced,” said Hodulik. “The fact is, Apple is going to
dramatically increase the number of devices it sells in the U.S.
when exclusivity at AT&T ends.”  
 AT&T’s profitability will likely get a boost, with a lower
subsidy cost that will add 4 cents a share to earnings in 2011,
said Barclays analyst  James Ratcliffe .  
 BlackBerry, Android  
 For Apple, a partnership with Basking Ridge, New Jersey-
based Verizon Wireless is a victory over rivals such as  Research
In Motion Ltd.  and Motorola Inc., whose smartphones are
currently promoted by the carrier.  
 “For Apple it means a larger addressable market,” said
 Andy Hargreaves , an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in
Portland, Oregon. “It’s also good news for Apple in that it
will spread the load on the wireless data networks, which will
be good for their customers.”  
 RIM, maker of the BlackBerry, lost 49 cents to $49.26 on
the Nasdaq. Motorola, which makes Droid phones that use  Google
Inc. ’s Android operating system, decreased 28 cents to $6.52 on
the New York Stock Exchange. Google fell $9.31 to $444.95 on the
Nasdaq.  
 Apple has sold more than 50 million iPhones since the
phone’s introduction in 2007. The latest version, iPhone 4, sold
more than 1.7 million units in the first three days after its
June 24 debut, a record for the product. CEO  Steve Jobs  said the
company didn’t have enough supply to meet demand. Many stores,
including retailer  Best Buy Co. , sold out.  
 A release at Verizon in the first quarter will help Apple’s
sales in the U.S. grow to at least 15 million units next year
from 11 million in 2010, Barclays said. The company’s suppliers
have been ramping up production of components for a phone that
will run on Verizon’s CDMA network, according to the research
report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Verizon Wireless will likely sell about 12 million iPhones in the first year, UBS AG analyst John Hodulik said.  Photographer:  David Scull/ Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Yair Reiner, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., and James Ratcliffe, an analyst with Barclays Capital, discuss the outlook for Apple Inc. iPhone sales by Verizon Wireless when the carrier begins selling the device next January.
    AT&T has had exclusive claim on the smartphone in the U.S. since it was introduced in 2007. They speak with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- John Hodulik, an analyst at UBS Securities LLC, talks about the outlook for AT&T Inc. losing exclusive rights to carry Apple Inc.'s iPhone and the impact on the wireless industry.
     Hodulik talks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Jay Margolis, a former retail executive, talks with Bloomberg's Betty Liu about Verizon Wireless's plan to sell Apple Inc's iPhone in January.
     Margolis, talking on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop With Betty Liu," also discusses the impact of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill on BP Plc's public image. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Jeff Jarvis, author of “What Would Google Do?,” discusses the prospects of Verizon Wireless selling Apple Inc.'s iPhone and its impact AT&T Inc.'s iPhone sales and on Google Inc., which makes the Android operating system.
     Jarvis speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Verizon will start selling Apple Inc.'s iPhone in January. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
