-- Volcker Said to Be Disappointed With Final Version of His Rule
-- Yalman Onaran
-- 2010-06-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/volcker-said-to-be-disappointed-with-final-version-of-rule-named-after-him.html

          
          
             Paul Volcker  is disappointed with
the final version of the rule that bears his name.  
 As first envisioned, the Volcker rule would have banned
banks from running private-equity and hedge funds, an attempt to
curb risk-taking that fueled the financial crisis. Last-minute
congressional negotiations aimed at winning Republican support
led to a compromise that allows banks to invest up to 3 percent
of their capital in such funds.  
 Volcker, the 82-year-old former Federal Reserve chairman,
didn’t expect the proposal to be diluted so much, said a person
with knowledge of his views. He’s content with language that
bans banks from trading with their own capital, the person said.  
 “The Volcker rule started out as a hard-and-fast rule on
risky trades and investments,” said  Anthony Sanders , a finance
professor at George Mason University  School of Management  in
Fairfax, Virginia. “But through negotiations, it was weakened
and ended up with many loopholes.”  
 Democratic Senators  Carl Levin  of Michigan and  Jeff Merkley 
of Oregon were also dissatisfied with the result, for the same
reasons as Volcker, according to two people with knowledge of
negotiations, speaking anonymously because they weren’t
authorized to comment to the press. The two lawmakers introduced
language that decreased the ability of regulators to water down
a final version of the rule and provisions to prevent banks from
bailing out failed hedge funds.  
 ‘Particular Interest’  
 Lobbying by banks and congressmen sympathetic to Wall
Street’s views, as well as some administration members in the
banks’ defense, trampled the views of Volcker and others who
favored a stronger proposal, the people said.  
 President Barack Obama introduced the rule in January with
Volcker, now one of his economic advisers, standing beside him.
That was after the House had already passed its version of the
financial reform bill, and so the rule was only included at
first in the Senate package.  
 In the final version, U.S. banks including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  and  Citigroup Inc.  may have as long as a dozen years
to reduce stakes in hedge funds and private-equity units,
lawyers say.  
 Volcker said in a statement released June 28 that the bill
agreed upon by congressional negotiators “provides a
constructive legal framework for reform of the financial
system.”  
 Among its provisions “are strong restraints on proprietary
trading by commercial banking organizations, a point that has
been of particular interest to me,” Volcker said, without
mentioning the hedge-fund side of the rule. He declined to
comment beyond the statement.  
 Brown’s Request  
 Scott Brown , the Massachusetts senator who was among four
Republicans voting in favor of the Senate bill, demanded some of
the changes to the Volcker rule. Lawmakers said yesterday they
plan to reconvene the House-Senate conference on the financial-
overhaul bill to eliminate a $19 billion bank fee that drew
objections from Brown and other Republicans.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-largest U.S. bank by
assets, operates the world’s biggest hedge fund, according to
the 2009 rankings of AR magazine, an industry trade publication.
The New York-based firm’s hedge funds had $50 billion of assets
under management as of Jan. 1, the magazine reported in March.
Goldman Sachs’s hedge funds, which ranked ninth on the list, had
$21 billion.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yalman Onaran  in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Volcker said to be disappointed with final version of rule  
                       
                         
                           Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Former Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Former Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- Former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker is reportedly disappointed with the final version of the rule that bears his name. Volcker didn’t expect his proposal to ban banks from running private-equity and hedge funds to be diluted so much, said a person with knowledge of his views. Bloomberg's Margaret Brennan reports.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 30 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator Judd Gregg, a New Hampshire Republican, discusses his opposition to the Democrats' strategy to finance the U.S. financial regulation bill. 
     Democratic lawmakers cleared the way for final votes in the House and Senate on the U.S. financial-regulatory bill after reconvening to make a fix requested by Republican senators, who objected to charging banks and hedge funds $19 billion to help pay for the measure. Gregg speaks with Peter Cook on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With Betty Liu.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Barney Frank talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about the agreement reached today by members of a House and Senate conference committee on the most sweeping overhaul of U.S. financial regulation since the Great Depression.
     The legislation shepherded by Senate Banking Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd and Frank places limits on potentially risky activities such as proprietary trading or over-the-counter derivatives and gives regulators new powers to seize and wind down large, complex institutions if needed. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 24 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Gardner, senior vice president for Washington research at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about the outlook for a final financial regulatory bill.
     A deal reached by members of a House and Senate conference early this morning diluted provisions from the tougher Senate bill, limiting rather than prohibiting the ability of federally insured banks to trade derivatives and invest in hedge funds or private equity funds. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
