-- Won, Ringgit Lead Slides in Asian Currencies as Global Recovery Sputters
-- Khalid Qayum
-- 2010-06-30T04:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/won-ringgit-lead-slides-in-asian-currencies-as-global-recovery-sputters.html

          
          
             Asian  currencies fell, led by South
Korea’s won and Malaysia’s ringgit, after a bigger-than-expected
slump in U.S. consumer confidence highlighted the fragility of
the global economy’s recovery from a recession.  
 The  MSCI  Asia-Pacific Index of regional shares dropped for
a second day and the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index of U.S. shares
hit an eight-month low after the Conference Board’s sentiment
index tumbled to 52.9 in June, missing all 71 projections in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. The research group yesterday
also revised lower its outlook for China’s economy, suggesting
demand may cool in the world’s most-populous nation.  
 “The broad sentiment in the market is very nervous,” said
 Mirza Baig , a Singapore-based currency strategist at Deutsche
Bank AG, the world’s largest foreign-exchange trader. “We are
coming into a period where global economic growth is likely to
slow down.”  
 The won weakened 0.9 percent to 1,227.78 per dollar as of
12:48 p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency has tumbled 7.8 percent since March, poised for its
first quarterly loss in more than a year. The ringgit slid 0.3
percent to 3.2600 per dollar and Indonesia’s rupiah declined 0.2
percent to 9,083.  
 Polls of purchasing managers in the U.S. and China,
scheduled for publication today and tomorrow, are forecast to
show expansion slowed, according to separate Bloomberg surveys
of economists. The two nations are the biggest buyers of exports
from South Korea, Taiwan and Singapore.  
 ‘Psychologically Vulnerable’  
 Overseas investors  sold more Korean shares than they bought
today, having dumped some $4.8 billion of the securities since
the end of April, and the Kospi index was poised for its worst
close in almost three weeks.  
 “The situation at home and abroad is psychologically
vulnerable and stocks are not doing as well as we hoped,” said
 Ha Joon Woo , a currency dealer at Daegu Bank Ltd in Seoul.
“We’ll have to see if exporter demand to repatriate foreign
income can stop the slide.”  
 Data released yesterday showed Japan’s unemployment rate
unexpectedly rose last month, while industrial output climbed
less than forecast and household spending fell. Wages in Asia’s
biggest economy dropped in May for the first time in three
months, the government reported today.  
 ‘Depreciation Pressure’  
 Thailand’s baht was set for its first quarterly loss since
March 2009 after the worst political violence in almost two
decades kept visitors away and prompted foreigners to pull funds
from the nation’s stocks. Overseas investors dumped $1.88
billion of shares since March, following net purchases of $1.31
billion in the first three months of 2010, exchange data show.  
 “The baht may remain under depreciation pressure in the
near term,” said Jurachat Chompoosri, a foreign-exchange trader
at Bank of Ayudhya Pcl in Bangkok. “Stock declines and China
growth concern make people risk averse. So far this year,
exports have been a supporting factor.”  
 The baht traded at 32.43 per dollar in Bangkok, little
changed from 32.44 yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 32.46, matching the lowest level since
June 15. The currency declined 0.2 percent since March, trimming
this year’s advance to 2.7 percent.  
 Taiwan’s dollar gained 0.3 percent to NT$32.183 against its
U.S. counterpart today on speculation exporters were
repatriating income after yesterday’s suspected intervention by
the central bank resulted in a more favorable exchange rate. The
currency yesterday weakened 0.3 percent, reversing a gain of as
much as 0.5 percent.  
 Elsewhere, China’s yuan strengthened 0.1 percent to 6.7913
per dollar and India’s rupee slid 0.2 percent to 46.59.
Financial markets in the Philippines are closed today for a
holiday as President Benigno Aquino takes office.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        