-- Won, Rupee Lead Declines in Asian Currencies on Global Recovery Concern
-- Khalid Qayum
-- 2010-06-30T10:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/won-rupee-lead-declines-in-asian-currencies-as-global-recovery-sputters.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won and India’s rupee
led declines in  Asian  currencies after a bigger-than-expected
slump in U.S. consumer confidence highlighted the fragility of
the global economy’s recovery from a recession.  
 The  MSCI  Asia-Pacific Index of regional shares dropped for
a second day and the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index of U.S. shares
hit an eight-month low after the Conference Board’s sentiment
index tumbled to 52.9 in June, missing all 71 projections in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. The research group yesterday
also revised lower its outlook for China’s economy, suggesting
demand may cool in the world’s most-populous nation.  
 “The broad sentiment in the market is very nervous,” said
 Mirza Baig , a Singapore-based currency strategist at Deutsche
Bank AG, the world’s largest foreign-exchange trader. “We are
coming into a period where global economic growth is likely to
slow down.”  
 The won weakened 0.4 percent to close at 1,221.80 per
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
tumbled 7.4 percent since March, completing its first quarterly
loss in more than a year. India’s rupee slid 0.2 percent to
46.59, headed for a 3.6 percent quarterly loss.  
 Polls of purchasing managers in the U.S. and China,
scheduled for publication today and tomorrow, are forecast to
show expansion slowed, according to separate Bloomberg surveys
of economists.  
 ‘Psychologically Vulnerable’  
 Overseas investors  sold more Korean shares than they bought
today, building on some $4.8 billion of net sales since the end
of April, and the Kospi index fell.  
 “The situation at home and abroad is psychologically
vulnerable and stocks are not doing as well as we hoped,” said
 Ha Joon Woo , a currency dealer at Daegu Bank Ltd in Seoul.
“We’ll have to see if exporter demand to repatriate foreign
income can stop the slide.”  
 Data released yesterday showed Japan’s unemployment rate
unexpectedly rose last month, while industrial output climbed
less than forecast and household spending fell. Wages in Asia’s
biggest economy dropped in May for the first time in three
months, the government reported today.  
 Thailand’s baht completed its first quarterly loss since
March 2009 after the worst political violence in almost two
decades kept visitors away and prompted foreigners to pull funds
from the nation’s stocks. Overseas investors pulled $1.88
billion from the nation’s equities since March, following net
purchases of $1.31 billion in the first three months of 2010,
exchange data show.  
 ‘Depreciation Pressure’  
 “The baht may remain under depreciation pressure in the
near term,” said Jurachat Chompoosri, a foreign-exchange trader
at Bank of Ayudhya Pcl in Bangkok. “Stock declines and China
growth concern make people risk averse. So far this year,
exports have been a supporting factor.”  
 The baht traded at 32.42 per dollar in Bangkok, little
changed from 32.44 yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 32.46, matching the lowest level since
June 15. The currency declined 0.2 percent since March, trimming
this year’s advance to 2.7 percent.  
 The yuan gained against the dollar after China’s central
bank set the  reference rate  stronger for a sixth day, having
last week scrapped a two-year-old currency peg. The daily fixing,
around which the currency can fluctuate by as much as 0.5
percent, was set at 6.7909.  
 China’s currency strengthened 0.24 percent to 6.7814 per
dollar, its biggest gain in a week. It’s appreciated 0.66
percent since the peg ended.  
 Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.4 percent to 3.2375
per dollar, reversing an earlier decline of as much as 0.7
percent. The currency completed a fifth quarterly gain. Taiwan’s
dollar was closed at NT$32.278, little changed from NT$32.279
yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        