-- WTO Plane Subsidies Ruling Faults European Airbus Aid
-- Jennifer Freedman
-- 2010-06-30T16:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/wto-says-airbus-benefited-from-illegal-subsidies-from-european-governments.html

          
          
             The  World Trade Organization  found
Airbus SAS benefited from illegal European government subsidies,
with money for the A380 jumbo topping the list of violations.  
 The panel opinion, made public today in Geneva after a
confidential ruling nine months ago, supports U.S. arguments
that loans by European governments constituted unfair aid. In
the case of the A380, the panel ruled the aid constituted the
strongest violation, because interest rates on loans were too
low and the support was linked to export performance.  
 The ruling raises the prospect of  Airbus  having to repay a
portion of the aid provided by the governments. European
governments paid out about $4 billion in so-called launch loans
for the A380, the world’s largest passenger plane. The WTO
didn’t specify what portion of that figure broke the rules and
would require payback. It also said France’s loans for the A380
weren’t considered prohibited.  
 Boeing , which lost its industry lead to Airbus in 2003,
called the WTO ruling a “sweeping legal victory,” saying the
verdict called for Airbus to repay $4 billion in illegal launch
aid for the A380, a statement that Airbus said is “deliberately
misleading” and “wrong.”  
 Abandoned Accord  
 About a third of Airbus’s development costs come from
European governments in the form of loans that are repaid with
interest only if the aircraft is a commercial success. The A380,
launched in 2000, is a 550-seat plane that began service in
2007. Airbus has said the program is years from breaking even.  
 The ruling comes six years after the U.S. abandoned a
transatlantic accord on aircraft aid over European Union
objections and filed a case against the EU, alleging that
aircraft development loans awarded by France, Germany, the U.K.
and Spain constituted illegal support that helped Airbus develop
new models to Boeing’s detriment.  
 The EU filed a counter-case, alleging that Boeing received
illegal aid. A preliminary judgment on that case is scheduled
for July 16.  
 “This final report needs to be read together with the
forthcoming interim report on subsidies provided in the U.S. to
Boeing,” said EU Trade Commissioner  Karel De Gucht  in a
statement provided upon release of the document. “The EU
remains committed to a negotiated outcome to the dispute with no
pre-conditions on either side.”  
 Fault with Infrastructure  
 The  1,050-page report  also found fault with money granted
by European governments on infrastructure used to help build
planes as well as with asset transfers and equity infusions.  
 Among projects cited were landfill work to extend a runway
in Hamburg, land given by the French government for the site
where the Airbus A380 is put together, and grants provided by
Germany and Spain for the construction of manufacturing and
assembly plants in Germany and Spain.  
 Asset transfers scrutinized in the ruling included a 1992
transfer by German bank KfW of its 20 percent equity interest in
Deutsche Airbus to MBB, and equity infusions that the French
government and then-state-owned bank Credit Lyonnais provided to
Aerospatiale SA, now part of Airbus parent European Aeorospace,
Defence & Space Co.  
 The ruling also found fault with support to Airbus under
the EU’s research and development program. Research aid is the
centerpiece of the EU case against U.S. support for Boeing.  
 Illegal Aid  
 “This panel could not be more clear: every instance where
the European governments have provided launch aid to Airbus”
has been found to be an illegal subsidy,  Tim Reif , a general
counsel for the U.S. Trade Representative’s office, said at a
press briefing.  
 “Our hope is that the clarity of this ruling is something
that the EU will take to heart” and refrain from any new launch
aid payments, he said.  
 In the EU’s favor, the WTO declined to uphold U.S. arguments
that the subsidies awarded TO Airbus led to “significant price
undercutting” or managed to “cause injury to the United
States’ domestic industry.”  
 The French government will continue to give development
loans to Airbus, the transport ministry said in an e-mailed
statement after the ruling.  
 The U.K. also said its plan to offer launch loans for the
A350 wouldn’t be affected by today’s ruling.  
 A350 Aid  
 “As the EU has reiterated in the past, support to the A350
is not within the scope of the proceedings,” an official for
the U.K. Business Dept. said today. The official called
government loans for aircraft development “a perfectly legal
market based instrument.”  
 WTO judges won’t tell Airbus how to remedy the illegal
subsidies. The aircraft maker could repay the portion of the
loans deemed illegal, or renegotiate the terms of its loans and
get new ones with interest rates judged to be commercial.  
 The WTO doesn’t have the power to impose sanctions itself,
though it can permit a nation that has been harmed to raise
tariffs or impose other barriers to imports from an offending
country or countries.  
 Both governments have 60 days to file an appeal. The EU
hasn’t decided yet whether to appeal, De Gucht said today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer M. Freedman  in Brussels at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        