-- Yen, Dollar Advance on Recovery Concerns; Franc Reaches Record Versus Euro
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-07-01T07:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/yen-is-near-2001-high-against-euro-as-stocks-fall-global-growth-may-slow.html

          
          
             The yen and dollar strengthened
against most major currencies as stock losses and signs the
global recovery is faltering boosted demand for safer assets.  
 Japan’s currency advanced versus 12 of its 16 counterparts
before reports today that economists said will show slowing
growth in U.S. and U.K. manufacturing. The Swiss franc
strengthened below 1.31 per euro for the first time after
China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index climbed at a slower pace and
Fitch Ratings said Europe’s sovereign debt problem boosts the
risk of a renewed recession. Moody’s Investors Service yesterday
placed Spain’s AAA rating on review for a possible downgrade.  
 “The dollar, the yen and the franc benefit from demand for
safe havens,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “Data may show a
sharper slowdown in the global economy and that puts pressure on
risk assets.”  
 The yen rose to 108.05 per euro as of 8:13 a.m. in London,
from 108.22 in New York yesterday. The currency climbed to
107.32 on June 29, the highest since November 2001. The yen
traded at 88.47 per dollar from 88.43, after earlier gaining to
88.08, the strongest since May 6.  
 The dollar rose to $1.2211 per euro from $1.2238. The euro
fell to 1.3125 francs from 1.3184. It reached 1.3074 francs, the
weakest since the single currency’s 1999 debut.  
 The yen has strengthened 14 percent this year, the biggest
gain among its 10 developed-world counterparts, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has risen 8
percent, and the euro has lost 9.5 percent.  
 Stocks Decline  
 The MSCI World  Index  of stocks dropped 0.8 percent, a third
day of losses, as economic reports signaled the global recovery
is losing momentum.  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s U.S. manufacturing
gauge fell to 59 in June from 59.7 in May, according to the
median forecast of 79 economists in a Bloomberg survey. A gauge
based on a survey of U.K. companies by Markit Economics and the
Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply fell to 57.5 in
June from 58, another survey showed.  
 “People are concerned that not many economies in the world
are going to be sustainable after stimulus measures expire,”
said  Susumu Kato , chief economist in Tokyo at Credit Agricole
CIB and CLSA, a unit of France’s largest bank by branches. “The
bias is for the yen to be bought.”  
 The yen typically strengthens in times of financial turmoil
as Japan’s trade surplus means the nation does not have to rely
on overseas lenders. The dollar benefits as the world’s main
reserve currency.  
 China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 52.1 in June
from 53.9 in May, the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
said in an e-mailed statement.  
 ‘Double-Dip’  
 “Financial market fears about the solvency of some
European governments and the future of the euro zone cast a
shadow over the outlook,”  Brian Coulton , head of global
economics at Fitch, wrote in an statement. “While not our
central case, the elevation of euro area sovereign debt fears
and renewed financial-market volatility have increased the risk
of a double-dip recession.”  
 Fitch forecasts world gross domestic product will expand
3.1 percent this year.  
 “Deteriorating” growth prospects and challenges in
meeting fiscal targets mean Spain’s Aaa classification may be
lowered by as much as two grades, Moody’s analysts including
Senior Vice President  Kristin Lindow  in New York said yesterday
in a statement. The review will be concluded within a three-
month period, the ratings company said.  
 ‘Brave Person’  
 The Australian and New Zealand dollars fell to three-week
lows against the greenback after reports showed Australian
building approvals fell and retail sales growth slowed.  
 Home-building approvals dropped 6.6 percent in May, while
 retail sales  rose 0.2 percent, a third of the pace in April, the
Bureau of Statistics said.  
 “You can see the Aussie back down to 80 cents and further
losses in equity markets,” said  Thomas Averill , a Sydney-based
senior consultant at HiFX, a foreign-exchange risk management
firm. “Into the weekend it would be a very brave person that’s
long risk, so you’re either going to be short or standing on the
sidelines.” A short position is a bet an asset will decline.  
 Australia’s currency slid 0.7 percent to 83.53 U.S. cents,
after declining to 83.16, the weakest since June 10. New
Zealand’s dollar fell 0.6 percent to 68.09 cents, after reaching
67.99 cents, also the lowest since June 10.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Jerram, chief Asia economist at Macquarie Securities Ltd. in Tokyo, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for Japan's economy and the yen.
     Sentiment among Japan’s largest manufacturers rose to a two-year high, signaling Europe’s debt crisis has yet to undermine their confidence in the global recovery. The quarterly Tankan index of sentiment at large manufacturers climbed 15 points in June to plus 1, the Bank of Japan said in Tokyo today. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
