-- Yuan Climbs as Fixing Suggests China's Central Bank Prefers Appreciation
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-30T10:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-30/yuan-climbs-as-fixing-suggests-china-s-central-bank-prefers-appreciation.html

          
          
             The yuan gained by the most in more
than a week on signs China’s central bank is favoring
appreciation after dropping a dollar peg.  
 The People’s Bank of China has allowed the currency to gain
0.7 percent since saying on June 19 that it was resuming a
flexible exchange rate to curb inflation and rebalance the
economy away from exports. It has set the daily fixing rate
stronger than the previous day’s close for six days in a row.  
 “The central bank wants to guide the yuan toward
appreciation at the initial stage of its yuan policy shift via
the daily reference rate,” said  Liu Dongliang , a Shenzhen-based
analyst at China Merchants Bank Co., the country’s fifth-largest
lender by market value. “The dollar’s relative weakness in the
short term also helps the yuan rise.”  
 The yuan climbed 0.24 percent to 6.7814 a dollar at 5:30
p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trading System. The central bank set the  reference rate  at
6.7909 a dollar today, compared with 6.7977 at yesterday’s close.
The currency is allowed to trade 0.5 percent on either side of
the fixing rate.  
 Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.3 percent to
6.6695 in Hong Kong, reflecting traders bets that the yuan will
strengthen 1.7 percent in one year.  
 The People’s Bank of China said June 19 it would end a two-
year peg to the dollar and manage the yuan with reference to a
currency basket. The Dollar Index declined 0.3 percent to 85.814
after the Conference Board’s gauge of U.S. consumer confidence
yesterday declined to 52.9 in June, below all 71 projections in
a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  
 ‘Modest Appreciation’  
 Investors should buy the yuan and sell the dollar on the
NDF market as the Chinese currency may strengthen more than the
contracts price in at present as inflation will temporarily
accelerate, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. said in a research
note today.  
 The British bank expects the yuan to appreciate 3 percent
against the greenback in a year and reach 6.6 by the end of
2011. Prices may rise close to near 4 percent from a year
earlier by July. A stronger yuan will help reduce inflationary
pressure by making imported goods cheaper.  
 “It’s easier for China to allow just extremely modest
appreciation than something more significant,” said  Ashley Davies , a senior economist at Commerzbank AG in Singapore.
“China is caught between wanting to placate the Americans on
the one side, and to avoid inducing large capital inflows to
speculate on the yuan’s appreciation on the other.”  
 He predicted the yuan will rise to 6.75 a dollar by the
year-end.  
 Obama Pressure  
 China’s decision to shift its exchange-rate policy and
allow its currency to trade more freely was a first step, and
the U.S. will monitor progress over the next “several months,”
U.S. President  Barack Obama  said at a press conference after a
summit of the Group of 20 countries last weekend.  
 The U.S. Treasury Department postponed an April 15 deadline
for a semi-annual review of the currency policies of major U.S.
trading partners, which might have resulted in China being
labeled a currency manipulator.  
 Government bonds rose after lending costs between banks
receded from a three-week high.  
 The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures funding
availability between banks, lost 26 basis points to 2.62 percent,
according to the daily fixing rate published by the National
Interbank Funding Center. The rate rose to 3.16 percent at the
end of last week, the highest level since June 2. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  
 The yield on the 2.33 percent government note due in June
2013 fell one basis point to 2.39 percent, and the price of the
security added 0.03 per 100 yuan face amount to 99.83, according
to the funding center.  
 China’s local-currency government bonds handed investors a
0.35 percent loss this month, the worst performance among Asia’s
10 largest economies excluding Japan, according to a local debt
indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc. The drop trimmed this
year’s gain to 2.61 percent, the index showed.  
 -- Belinda Cao ,  Patricia Lui . Editors:  Simon Harvey ,  Sandy Hendry   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at   plui4@bloomberg.net ;
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        