-- Bankers Blow $20 Billion Faster Than Gamblers: William Pesek
-- William Pesek
-- 2010-03-03T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-03/bankers-blow-20-billion-faster-than-gamblers-william-pesek.html

          
          
             The big buzz in Singapore is about
the casinos beginning to dot the city-state.  
 Singapore prefers to call them “integrated resorts.”
Gambling is what it is, though. Welcoming Las Vegas tycoons
Sheldon Adelson and Steve Wynn is intended to woo tourists and
diversify the economy.  
 It’s not exactly a new idea. The truth is that Singapore
has been gambling for some time now, and not very well.  
 The die was cast when the Government of Singapore
Investment Corp., which manages more than $100 billion of state
currency reserves, bet big on Zurich-based UBS AG. It took three
days to agree to prop up debt-laden UBS in 2007. It may take 10
years to recoup that $10 billion.  
 Singapore isn’t alone in massive losses that may reshape
markets -- and perhaps for the better.  
 Two years ago, sovereign wealth funds were heralded as
saviors of world markets. That was when Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. seemed too big to fail. It was a quainter time, when
Iceland was a country, not a failed hedge fund, and American-
style capitalism still had some appeal.  
 The thinking then was that the trillions of dollars that
resource- and cash-rich governments were pouring into markets
would out-Greenspan the “Greenspan put.”  
 Safety for Gamblers  
 Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan liked to
rescue markets with lower rates when things got dicey. Likewise,
investors figured this almost infinite source of demand would
support riskier assets and stabilize markets. Capitalism
suddenly seemed safe for all gamblers.  
 Markets had a new shock absorber and it appeared to work
brilliantly. As the global crisis heated up and banks shuddered,
government investment arms helped support Citigroup Inc.,
Merrill Lynch & Co. and UBS, as well as Barclays Plc, Credit
Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley.  
 Then the roof fell in. Investments totaling more than $69
billion by state investment funds produced $20 billion in
realized and paper losses, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Blowing that much money means managers of these funds
will be under greater scrutiny than ever.  
 China Investment Corp. is the big money in this tale, since
China has $2.4 trillion of reserves. It still has explaining to
do over a $3 billion investment in Blackstone Group LP in 2007.
Blackstone shares have fallen 52 percent since Jan. 1, 2008.  
 $4.8 Billion Loss  
 Abu Dhabi Investment Authority may face a $4.8 billion
paper loss when it’s forced to convert its so-called Citigroup
equity units to shares starting this month. In Singapore,
Temasek Holdings Pte, a state-owned investment company that
oversees $120 billion, sold its shares in Bank of America Corp.
-- BofA bought Merrill Lynch, in which Temasek invested -- for a
$4.6 billion loss in early 2009.  
 Such investments may pay off in the long run. For example,
in the Government of Singapore Investment Corp.’s annual report,
published in September, Chief Investment Officer Ng Kok Song
said he still has “confidence” in the long-term prospects of
the UBS investment. GIC declined to comment for a March 3
Bloomberg article.  
 Expect to see far greater conservatism on the part of
governments investing overseas. It’s not such a bad turn of
affairs. This whole idea that massive state investment funds
would save capitalism was always a bit surreal. It’s a wonder
the free-market crowd was ever peddling it.  
 Reverse Thatcherism  
 Let’s call it what it is: Thatcherism in reverse. During
the 1980s, U.K. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher championed a
process of selling national assets, arguing that private
managers create more wealth than public ones. Recently, we have
seen a kind of renationalization of companies across borders. Is
this how capitalism is really supposed to work?  
 If so, tensions will rise markedly. Would the U.S. sit idly
if China went shopping for big stakes in Silicon Valley? What
about Australia, New Zealand and Canada as foreign governments
consider buying key resource companies? How might Japan or South
Korea react to acquisitions of their banks?  
 These questions were touchy before the worst global crisis
since the 1930s. Its fallout makes them even harder to tackle as
nations turn inward to boost employment and shelter populations
from global shocks.  
 This year has served up its fair share of disorientation.
Look no further than market chatter about Greece turning to
China for a bailout. After all, China’s cache of reserves dwarfs
what the International Monetary Fund has on hand to deploy.  
 Looming Crisis  
 If the doomsayers are correct that an even bigger crisis is
looming, sovereign wealth funds may be expected to save the day.
As the world shifts from economies that are too big to fail to
those that are too big to save, it will be tempting to access
all that state money sitting around. Greece is one thing. Think
of the cost of bailing out a $1.6 trillion economy like Spain or
even larger ones.  
 Governments aren’t meant to dominate markets in the long
run. The global crisis brought them in to stabilize things, and
greater regulation is needed to avoid another meltdown in the
not-so-distant future.  
 When we talk about exit strategies, though, we should think
about more than winding down stimulus efforts. We also should
consider whether governments really should dominate the global
finance game in the years ahead. Talk about gambling with
capitalism’s future.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        