-- IT and Business Leaders: Getting Along Is Not Enough
-- Susan Cramm
-- 2010-03-03T19:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-03/it-and-business-leaders-getting-along-is-not-enough.html

          
          
             My previous blog  emphasized the importance of increasing the IT-smarts of business leaders in order to fully leverage technologies that are reshaping the competitive landscape. 

 As you might expect, IT leaders agreed. They said that "when we give business P&L owners the right level of knowledge, it empowers them to make optimal decisions and become technology power users." 

 And, as you might also expect, business leaders said that, while there is merit in getting the business smarter about IT, "it would be far more efficient if IT learned how to work better with the business." 

 Both responses are right on. We absolutely need business-smart IT leaders. We also need IT-smart business leaders. We live in a complex world that is best served by "and" versus "or" thinking. East  and  west. Art  and  science. Logic  and  emotion. Business-smart IT  and  IT-smart business. 

 Increasing business-smarts in IT has been a top priority for every self-respecting CIO on the planet for the last 10 to 15 years. The days of the inwardly focused, "catch me if you can," IT organization are long gone. In its place are IT professionals collaborating with the other parts of the business on strategy, prioritization, and delivery, and measuring their success based on their ability to support the interests of the enterprise and the businesses within it. Progress has been made with more than 45% of business leaders agreeing that, "IT leaders are business-smart."* But there is more work to do when 60% of the business leaders say, "IT consists of technologists, not business leaders." 

 Unfortunately, improving the IT-smarts of the other parts of the business hasn't been on anybody's mind in any real way. The thought has been that, eventually, IT-smarts will naturally emerge as tech-savvy youngsters grow up and move their elders out of the executive suite. While it's true that business leaders are smarter about using consumer technologies, they aren't all that smart about how to apply and manage technology to serve the enterprise. Only 25% of business leaders feel smart about IT and almost 50% of business leaders admit that they: 

 Make half-baked requests and are clueless about enterprise impact 
 Want it all now right now, regardless of ROI 
 Frequently change their mind about what they want their systems to do 
 Don't understand how to use their systems and technologies 
 We have an opportunity to help business leaders manage IT as an organizational asset — not simply an organizational structure. Technology will fall far short of expectations if business leaders continue to try to operate IT via remote control. Emerging technologies — such as social media, business intelligence, business process management — aren't applications in so much as they are innovation toolkits. While they require (business-smart) technologists to implement and configure, they also require IT-smart business leaders (at all levels) to experiment and exploit their potential.  

 It is possible for companies to increase innovation by uplifting the IT-smarts of the 90-plus percent of the company that works outside of IT. The question is not  if  we need business-smart IT leaders  and  IT-smart business leaders, but how we change the fundamental nature of IT-business collaboration. 

 How are you creating IT-smart business leaders and business-smart IT leaders? 

 *source: 2009 "How IT-Smart Is Your Organization" survey. If you'd like a copy of the results, email me at susan @ valuedance.com. 
          
          


  


        