-- Nortel Wins Approval to Sell Internet Phone Unit
-- Joe Schneider
-- 2010-03-03T21:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-03/nortel-wins-approval-to-sell-internet-phone-unit-update1-.html

          
          
             Nortel Networks Corp. (NRTLQ) , once North
America’s biggest maker of telecommunications equipment, won
bankruptcy court permission to sell its Internet phone business
for $282 million to Genband Inc.  
 At joint hearing of courts in the U.S. and  Canada , the
judges overseeing Nortel’s liquidation approved the sale, which
would bring about $182 million to the company and is the last
major unit the company has left to sell.  
 At the start of Nortel’s bankruptcy, “I said this is not
about the end of Nortel, this is about the beginning of a new
Nortel,” company lawyer Derrick Tay said. “I was wrong.”  
 “We can’t save this company,” Tay said.  
 Months after it sought court protection from creditors in
January, 2009, Nortel began  auctioning its assets . The company
has raised about $3 billion from the sales, Nortel has said in
court papers.  
 The company, at its peak in 2000, was valued at $250
billion and employed more than 90,000 people. There are about
500 people left, Tay said.  
 The sale to Genband came after Nortel canceled an auction
for the unit, according to court records.  
 “We had two other potential bidders show up and take a
look at the business but ultimately no other offers were
submitted,” company attorney Lisa Schweitzer said in court
today.  
 Sale Approved  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
approved the sale today as part of a joint hearing with Ontario
Superior Court Judge Geoffrey Morawetz in Toronto.  
 Earlier today, Morawetz rejected a request from a group of
about 30 former Nortel workers to delay consideration of an
agreement to settle outstanding health, pension and severance
payments owed to employees.  
 Under the deal, Nortel agreed to create a C$57 million fund
to pay long-term disability benefits and provide health, life,
dental and pension benefits to the end of the year.  
 Without the deal, Nortel would stop payments at the end of
the month, Tay said. The fund also includes severance and
termination payments, to a maximum of C$3,000, to fired Nortel
workers.  
 Joel Rochon, lawyer for the group of former workers on
long-term disability who oppose the deal, urged the judge to
delay consideration of the approval of the agreement for 45
days, saying the workers haven’t had enough time to analyze the
proposal.  
 Morawetz said the risk of the loss of the benefits to other
former workers was too great to grant the request.  
 The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Toronto at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        