-- Protecting the Public Ends Up Helping Markets: Susan Antilla
-- Susan Antilla
-- 2010-03-04T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-03/protecting-the-public-ends-up-helping-markets-susan-antilla.html

          
          
             If you still believe that protecting
consumers from lying creeps who peddle financial schlock is bad
for business, you’ve been spending too much time playing video
games since you lost your job in the Great American Meltdown.  
 Not all of the creeps who sell payday loans, or subprime
mortgages, or high-interest credit cards, are lying creeps, of
course. Some of them are just in creepy businesses. And the war
that has erupted over proposals to regulate those businesses, so
that the average person can understand their products, might
make you believe that a push for higher lending standards could
bring down the Republic.  
 I was thinking about the impassioned fight to kill or water
down President  Barack Obama ’s proposed Consumer Financial
Protection Agency over the weekend when I came across a paper
written by a New York University business professor, presented
in New York on Friday at the Penn/NYU Conference on Law and
Finance.  
 Entitled “The Impact of Investor Protection Law on
Corporate Policy: Evidence from the Blue Sky Laws,” the paper
described the professor’s effort to determine whether new
standards to protect investors helped or hurt corporate fortunes
in an era when bogus mining scams, not deceptive credit-card
contracts, were the rage.  
 Considering all the current-day flap I’ve been hearing
about the devastating impact that would result if we set up a
new regulator to watch out for consumers of financial products,
I braced myself, expecting to discover that the companies
examined by  Ashwini K. Agrawal  had wound up hauling their
corporate carcasses into bankruptcy court after failing to cope
with the onerous pro-consumer laws.  
 New Laws  
 It didn’t turn out that way. In fact, the enactment of new
state laws to protect U.S. investors during the early 20th
century was followed by -- don’t faint, Chicago School
parishioners -- a period of greater investment in stocks, higher
dividends and growing company assets.  
 “The results are strongly supportive of theoretical models
which predict that investor protection laws have a significant
impact on the financing and investment policies of firms,”
Agrawal wrote. In other words, protecting the public can be good
business.  
 He wrote that his findings are relevant to the debate on
whether emerging markets in Eastern Europe and Asia should enact
reforms to protect investors. Still, he isn’t comfortable
applying the lessons of his study to the debate over Obama’s
proposed consumer agency.  
 Being Cautious  
 “A lot of academics are OK with making extrapolations like
that, but I personally don’t like that stuff,” he said in a
telephone interview.  Jill E. Fisch , professor of law at the
University of Pennsylvania Law School and one of four organizers
of the conference, said in a telephone interview that Agrawal’s
paper probably provides no lessons for today’s regulatory
debates, noting that the paper was an “early stage” research
project that focuses narrowly on a single industry.  
 Agrawal says he focused on mining for a reason -- that’s
where the fraud was. At the turn of the 20th century, investors
were getting fleeced by oil, gas and mining scams, with
promoters going door-to-door to peddle interests in phony
offerings. “The problem was that a lot of those investors could
not verify if the money was going into the promoter’s pockets,
or into a gold mine or oil well,” Agrawal told me.  
 Shades of  Bernie Madoff .  
 By 1931, every state except Nevada passed what became known
as “blue sky” laws, which demanded that companies provide
basic information, such as their corporate address and the names
of their officers. The laws also established a legal basis for
investors to sue a fraudster who’d sold them a bill of goods.  
 Number Crunching  
 Kansas was the first state to pass such a law. Its banking
commissioner, Joseph Dolley, said that swindlers were selling
securities that were backed up by nothing more than the blue
skies.  
 Agrawal crunched numbers on 108 publicly traded mining
firms on which he could get historical information about
products, sales, and product prices for the years 1899 to 1918.
He learned this: Between two and three years after investor-
protection laws were passed in a company’s state, dividend
payouts increased 10 percent, common stock outstanding was up at
least 11 percent and corporate assets increased 17 percent.  
 Operating performance increased in the period too, he says
in his paper, with return on assets up 6 percent on average.  
 Fisch has reservations about those results, noting that the
good performance was achieved during “the biggest bubble of all
times in the 1920s.” Agrawal, though, says his data shows that
states that passed laws to protect investors had superior
performance to those that hadn’t yet passed such laws.  
 That’s the Story  
 I asked him whether his basic finding was that better
investor protection meant more confident investors, which meant
investors who were more willing to be, well, investors. “Yes,
that’s basically the story,” he said.  
 Agrawal’s research may not prove that regulation always
helps markets, but it sure casts doubt on those who say rules
inevitably stifle innovation and the entrepreneurial spirit.
That isn’t the story that lawmakers trying to undermine Obama’s
proposed agency a century later would like to hear.  
 ( Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.
  
          
          


  


        