-- Rangel, Bunning Drag Congress Close to Bottom: Margaret Carlson
-- 
-- 2010-03-04T02:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-03/rangel-bunning-drag-congress-close-to-bottom-margaret-carlson.html

          
          
             You be the judge: Which was a worse
example of the  U.S. Congress  at work this week?  
 Was it Senator Jim Bunning, Republican of  Kentucky ,
launching a one-man crusade against extending unemployment and
health-insurance benefits while whining about missing a college
basketball game? During the five days of infamy, he shouted at
reporters from inside a senators-only elevator and flipped his
middle finger to onlookers.  
 Or was it Congressman Charles Rangel, Democrat from  New
York City  and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee?
The House ethics committee slapped his wrist for accepting a
corporate-sponsored trip, which was enough to prompt  Jon Stewart , among others, to resurrect a  photo  of him flopped on a
lounge chair on a sandy beach, surely one of the most
unflattering pictures of a lawmaker captured in recent times.  
 It’s a tough call.  
 Bunning’s stunt added pain to the lives of the jobless,
furloughed workers building roads and threatened the game his
colleagues are playing. The Republican caucus is pretty pleased
with its more elegant mode of resistance and doesn’t want the
public to see obstructionism for what it really is, played out
on C-Span.  
 Yet Rangel is a walking, vacationing example of the
entitled behavior that sickens voters.  
 In the wake of the 2007 Jack Abramoff scandal, Congress
tried to show it could police itself by adopting rules such as
banning corporations that employ lobbyists from paying for any
trip lasting more than one day.  
 ‘Prime Access’  
 In the Rangel case, the letter soliciting corporations to
kick in for expenses for the multiday trip explicitly promised
“prime access to key elected officials” for their money by way
of a private reception, good seating at meals, “photo
opportunities, etc.”  
 Even without the “et cetera,” Rangel ran afoul of the
rule by going. So, of course, he blamed his staff, claiming he
didn’t know who paid for the trip.  
 What Rangel must have known was that he didn’t pay. Did he
wonder about the identity of those sharks circling him in bright
resort wear, sipping pina coladas, as they enjoyed the “prime
access” they’d paid for? The trip smelled bad before it began.
Organizers had sent Rangel a letter during the planning saying
they were worried that HSBC and AT&T might not pony up because
they were worried word of the trip might get out and they’d get
slammed in the press for funding it.  
 Speed of Sludge  
 Flying off to a warm climate during winter isn’t Rangel’s
only problem -- it’s just the one the ethics committee, moving
at the speed of sludge, has found time to admonish him for.
There might be an explanation for the panel’s slowness in
getting to Rangel’s other questionable trips, a $1 million
contribution from a wealthy businessman who later got a tax
break, and not reporting rental income from a vacation villa he
owns in the  Dominican Republic . Three of the five Democrats on
the bipartisan committee got donations from Rangel. One of them
went along with him on the island junket in question.  
 It took only two work days for Maine Republican Senator
 Susan Collins , speaking for most of the Republican caucus, to
isolate Bunning and force him to stop his obstructionist tactic.
It’s taken the Democrats far longer to remove Rangel from his
privileged position.  
 That’s partly because Rangel is beloved and Bunning is not.
In fact, Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  successfully pressured
Bunning not to run for a third term. Bunning was so mad the GOP
had hurt his fundraising, he threatened to sue it.  
 Bad Temper  
 In a body of crotchety old men, Bunning is the
crotchetiest. He said his Italian-American opponent in his last
race looked like one of  Saddam Hussein ’s sons. After beating the
so-called Uday, he didn’t show up in the Senate for the first
month, off on the Appalachian Trail for all anyone ever knew. In
a speech last year, Bunning said conservatives soon would occupy
a majority of Supreme Court seats because Associate Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  would die within nine months from “bad cancer,
the kind that you don’t get better from.”  
 While Bunning gets little love, Democrats closed ranks
around Rangel last fall, defeating a GOP resolution to strip him
of his powerful committee chairmanship. Republicans argued that
the country’s chief tax writer shouldn’t get away with ignoring
rules he’d written. Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , who vowed to have the
most ethical Congress in history, made the false distinction
that Rangel’s conduct was only a “violation of the rules of the
House, not something that jeopardized our country in any way.”  
 But yesterday, as Republicans called for a vote on a
similar resolution, Democrats, in fear for their seats, were set
to vote against Rangel. In a brief announcement, Rangel agreed
to give up his gavel “temporarily.”  
 Another Problem  
 Another excuse Democrats gave for not acting sooner was
that they didn’t want Congressman Pete Stark of  California , tax-
challenged himself, to take over Ways and Means. He got
“extremely belligerent,” according to ethics investigators,
when questioned about his attempt to get a homestead  tax
exemption  in  Maryland  when his official residence is in
California.  
 If Pelosi hopes to keep a Democratic majority, she better
get busy cleaning the swamp she promised to drain. On Tuesday
night, Washington got another smackdown. Texas Governor Rick Perry walloped Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison  by 21 points in the
state’s Republican primary for governor. Hutchison, who had the
Bush family and  Dick Cheney  supporting her, once had a
commanding lead in polls.  
 There was only one reason she lost: voters might dislike
the capitol in Austin, but they hate the one in  Washington .  
 ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        