-- Swap Vigilantes Take Heat for Euro Shortcomings: Mark Gilbert
-- Mark Gilbert
-- 2010-03-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-03/swap-vigilantes-take-heat-for-euro-shortcomings-mark-gilbert.html

          
          
             Make way, bond vigilantes. A new
posse is in town, using the credit-default swaps market to
punish indebted governments for their deficit-swelling
subterfuges. And, as usual, the first reaction of the guilty is
to blame speculators, rather than their own shortcomings.  
 The European Commission is calling banks and regulators to
a meeting this week to discuss sovereign-default swaps. The
derivatives offer investors protection against a country failing
to pay its debts, or depending where you stand, allow malicious
hedge funds to trash a nation’s creditworthiness.  
 U.S. authorities, meantime, have asked hedge funds not to
destroy records of trades they make involving the euro,
according to a person with knowledge of the requests. The common
currency has lost almost 5 percent of its value against the
dollar this year as Greece’s economic woes undermined investor
confidence in the European monetary union (or malevolent
infidels savaged an innocent bystander, depending on your view).  
 This circling of the regulatory wagons is a replay of what
we saw in the equity markets in 2008. Then, pesky speculators
were blamed for driving down bank stocks, prompting bans on
short sellers, who bet that a share price will decline by
selling securities they don’t own in anticipation of buying them
back later at a lower price.  
 Wrong Reaction  
 Those kneejerk supervisory reactions are wrong.  Bank shares 
were collapsing because balance sheets were full of toxic
rubbish. This led financial firms around the world to write down
their assets by $1.7 trillion so far. Investors pushed up the
cost of buying Greek debt insurance in recent weeks because of
genuine concern that the government might default, unable to
borrow in capital markets and left to flounder by its peers in
the euro area.  
 Now, as then, the wrong response is to strangle the
operation of free markets with ill-advised bans and restrictions
designed to prevent economic Darwinism from cleansing the gene
pool. Banks deserved to watch their share prices plummet in
2008. And Greece has only itself to blame for the collapse in
confidence in its creditworthiness that drove its default swaps
to a record 428 basis points on Feb. 4, meaning it cost $428,000
a year to insure $10 million of debt for five years.  
 Greece lied and cheated its way into euro membership and
has been economical with the truth about its budget deficit ever
since. The nation yesterday effectively relinquished control of
its fiscal policies to the EU, pledging to save 4.8 billion
euros ($6.6 billion) as it tries to get its shortfall down from
12.7 percent of gross domestic product.  
 Motivated Rescuers  
 Greece is hoping a newfound enthusiasm for spending cuts
and higher taxes will persuade its neighbors to fund a bailout
package lickety-split. Investors may be reluctant to lend the
country the 20 billion euros it needs to repay bondholders in
April and May.  
 Some euro members know that they might be next in the
firing line, having committed similar crimes against the euro’s
supposed 3 percent deficit limit. That helps explain the EU’s
willingness to countenance a rescue package, as well as its
enthusiasm for a curb on sovereign-default swaps.  
 “We’re working on the fundamentals of derivatives, to
understand who does what, and in CDS we’re looking at the aspect
that relates to states,”  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s
financial services commissioner, told Bloomberg News this week.  
 Unintended Consequences  
 Be careful what you wish for. International banks that have
money at risk to governments -- either because of cross-border
trades, involvement in government-bond auction programs or other
parts of the financial plumbing that connects global markets --
use sovereign swaps to cover their backs.  
 It is almost impossible to distinguish between the types of
hedging that even the most fervent regulator would approve of
and the financial betting that some would prefer to outlaw. By
trying to prohibit the latter, supervisors might smother the
former, and the law of unintended consequences could kick in
with force.  
 “A ban on naked sovereign shorts would curtail legitimate
hedging, and probably lead to greater government-bond selling,”
Citigroup Inc. analysts led by  Michael Hampden-Turner  in London
wrote in a research note published Feb. 2.  
 To a regional regulator given a hammer by scared
governments, everything starts to look like a nail. The euro
would be better served by its members focusing on enforcing the
existing rules of the common-currency club, rather than
inventing new ones that may undermine their funding abilities.  
 ( Mark Gilbert , author of “Complicit: How Greed and
Collusion Made the Credit Crisis Unstoppable,” is the London
bureau chief and a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Mark Gilbert  in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          March 4 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Sara Eisen reports on the defense by top hedge-fund managers of trades they make involving the euro as U.S. authorities scrutinize the funds' possible role in the Greek debt crisis. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
