-- `Shadow' Lenders' Emergency Fed Loans Boosted Aid to Barclays, Citigroup
-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d ,   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-12-13T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/-shadow-lenders-emergency-fed-loans-boosted-aid-to-barclays-citigroup.html
The Federal Reserve gave more
support to the world’s biggest financial companies, including
 Barclays Plc ,  Citigroup Inc.  and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc,
than the direct loans it disclosed this month in response to
congressional mandates.  That’s because about $140 billion, or 20 percent of the
Fed’s Commercial Paper Funding Facility, went to affiliates of
four firms that provided financing to banks and other companies:
Hudson Castle, BSN Holdings, Liberty Hampshire Co. and
Northcross, central bank  data  show.  Banks around the world benefited. The affiliates were
vehicles known as conduits -- part of what a Fed report in July
called the “ shadow banking ” system that removed assets from
companies’ balance sheets and turned toxic debt into top-rated
securities. At least a dozen banks had promised to provide
conduits financing or other support in an emergency, reports by
Standard & Poor’s show. Some also tapped the conduits for loans,
according to people with direct knowledge of the firms’ dealings.  The shadow banking system “contributed significantly to
asset bubbles in residential and commercial real-estate markets
prior to the financial crisis” by obscuring risks, the Fed
itself said in the study. The Fed’s disclosures on Dec. 1 didn’t
identify borrowers from the four conduits. The funds were repaid.  Spokesmen for New York-based Citigroup, London’s Barclays
and Royal Bank of Scotland, based in Edinburgh, wouldn’t say
whether their firms borrowed money from conduits that tapped the
commercial paper facility. Representatives of the conduits
either declined to comment or didn’t respond to messages.  ‘Repaid in Full’  “Like most global banks, we utilized central bank
liquidity schemes during the crisis in financial markets,” said
 Pholida Phengsomphone , a spokeswoman for the Royal Bank of
Scotland, in an e-mailed statement. “Since then we have
significantly reduced our borrowing from central banks and all
money borrowed from the Fed has now been repaid in full with
interest.”  General Electric Co.’s  finance unit was among firms that
borrowed from one of the conduits, a person with direct
knowledge of the transactions said. Russell Wilkerson, a
spokesman for Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, declined to
comment on the amount.  These types of conduits operate by selling commercial paper
and then providing inexpensive short-term financing to banks or
banks’ customers, often through repurchase agreements, in which
the seller of a security agrees to buy it back in the future.  ‘Like Mini-Banks’  Some transactions can help companies remove assets from
their balance sheets and reduce capital requirements, said  Henry Tabe , co-founder of Sequoia Investment Management Co. in London
and author of a  book , “ The Unravelling of Structured Investment
Vehicles : How Liquidity Leaked Through the SIVs” (Thoth Capital,
2010).  “These vehicles grew quite large and away from the gazes
of regulators,” said Tabe, a former analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service. “These conduits are like mini-banks, making
available billions in loans to banks.”  Companies’ dealings with conduits can take a variety of
forms.  Bank of America Corp. , for instance, acted as an
intermediary for BSN’s sales of commercial paper to the Fed, a
person briefed on the transaction said. At the same time, the
bank provided BSN with assets from its own balance sheet, the
person said.  “We have had a small but ongoing relationship with BSN,”
said Robert Stickler, a spokesman for the bank. The Charlotte,
North Carolina-based lender directly borrowed $22.9 billion in
aggregate from the Fed’s CPFF, according to Fed data.  ‘Shadow of the Shadow’  The conduits’ borrowing took place from September 2008
through January 2010, the data show. Some of the loans matured
as late as April 2010.  “If securitization was shadow banking, then this was in
the shadow of the shadow,” said  Joseph Mason , professor of
finance at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge. “This was
even further down the line.”  Other components of the shadow banking system include
money-market funds, mortgage-backed securities and government-
sponsored companies such as Fannie Mae, according to the Fed
report.  The total loaned by the Fed under its commercial paper
facility was $738 billion. While BSN didn’t need the funding
from the Fed, it did “bolster profits in 2009,” according to
an annual statement filed earlier this year by a London-based
affiliate of the firm.  Keeping Tabs  A banker who deals with conduits said that, because the
funding vehicles were not well known, the Fed grew curious about
why they needed to sell so much commercial paper. He said an
executive at one of the four firms contacted him to say the Fed
had asked for information about what the conduits did and how
they loaned money to customers.  “We maintained contact with all firms accessing the
facility at some level in order to better understand our risk
exposure,” said Jeffrey Smith, a Federal Reserve Bank of New
York spokesman. “The range of programs and the creation of
programs like the CPFF reflect the Federal Reserve’s ability to
create broad and democratic lending programs.”  The conduits, several of which were formed as the
securitization markets surged after 2004, had little permanent
capital. Some were run by parent companies founded by former
bank executives. By turning to conduits, companies can expand
their sources of financing.  According to a report by S&P from 2005, customers of
conduits used them to gain “access to a pool of funding in
excess of $700 billion, flexibility, and alternative sources of
funding.”  Shareholders’ Capital  Hudson Castle’s Ebbets Funding conduit, which is registered
in Dublin, said in its accounts for the year ended March 31,
2009, that it had investments of $7.4 billion, borrowings it had
to repay within a year of $7.5 billion, and shareholders’
capital of $48,896. It paid a management fee of $18.4 million to
Hudson Castle for the year.  Credit ratings assigned to the conduits were based solely
on the strength of the  financial companies  pledging to support
them. Assistance included agreements to purchase the conduits’
commercial paper if others balked or to buy back assets serving
as collateral for their loans. Other types of conduits were
sponsored by single banks, including Citigroup and Barclays.
Such conduits needed to hold assets of a certain quality to
obtain a high rating.  Hudson Castle had no comment, a spokeswoman who declined to
give her name said.  Jeffrey Kelley , a spokesman for Guggenheim
Partners LLC, the owner of Liberty Hampshire, declined to
comment.  Albert Cheong , co-founder of BSN and the company’s
representative in New York, also declined to comment. Phone
calls and e-mails to Northcross founder  Steve Anthoney  weren’t
returned.  Off Balance Sheets  Before changes in accounting rules sparked by the financial
crisis, the assets of all conduits and similar companies called
special investment vehicles, or SIVs, were typically held off of
the balance sheets of U.S. banks that sponsored or supported
them, said James Mountain, a partner in New York at  Deloitte &
Touche LLP . That meant they didn’t need to hold capital against
those assets, he said.  Banks still needed to hold some capital against various
forms of guarantees they provided to the conduits, he said.
Assets sold with repurchase agreements usually remain on banks’
balance sheets, he added.  Conduits managed by New York-based Hudson Castle received
an aggregated total of $53.3 billion from the Fed program, with
at most $16 billion outstanding at any one time. Support
providers for its Elysian Funding LLC conduit included Citigroup
and  Royal Bank of Scotland , according to a September 2009 report
from Standard & Poor’s. Companies serving in that role often
also received loans from the conduits, according to people
familiar with the market.  Liberty Hampshire  Hudson Castle described Chief Executive Officer Kyle L.
Miller in 2007 as a former managing director with Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., according to ZoomInfo, a search engine
that archives executive profiles from companies’ websites.  Liberty Hampshire affiliates drew $41.4 billion from the
CPFF, with $16 billion its maximum outstanding. Barclays was
among 11 financial companies that provided support to Liberty’s
Crown Point Capital conduit, according to a 2009 S&P report.  The executive chairman of Guggenheim, which also runs an
investment bank along with Liberty Hampshire, is  Alan Schwartz ,
former chief executive officer of Bear Stearns Cos.  Northcross is headed from London by Anthoney, who led
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s European commercial paper operation until
the bank left the business in 2004, according to the company’s
website. Anthoney set up Northcross in 2005, the website says.
He founded the business with  David Hynes , an Irish money manager
who previously worked with Morgan Stanley, Gartmore Group Ltd.
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  BSN Holdings  BSN Holdings took a total of $42.8 billion and Northcross
borrowed $8.6 billion, peaking at $15 billion and $3 billion,
respectively, Fed data show. BSN’s London-based operation, BSN
Capital Partners Ltd, was founded in 2005 by an ex-Deutsche Bank
AG managing director,  John Burgess , according to a 2008 company
filing. Two other ex-Deutsche Bank officials,  Jeremy Nye  and
Albert Cheong, also run BSN, according to the firm’s website.  BSN’s Chesham Finance vehicle, which had $23.6 billion of
commercial paper outstanding as of mid-2007, is among conduits
still in business, with $1.5 billion of borrowing as of Sept. 30,
according to Moody’s Investors Service data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Sterngold  in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
 Donal Griffin  in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  