-- Lack of Health Mandate Would Lead to Skyrocketing Costs, U.S. Insurers Say
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-12-13T21:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/lack-of-health-mandate-would-lead-to-skyrocketing-costs-u-s-insurers-say.html
A federal judge’s ruling striking
down a health-law mandate that all Americans buy insurance would
cause “skyrocketing costs” if affirmed by higher courts, says
a group that represents health plans in Washington.  Eliminating the mandate undercuts insurers’ ability under
the law to guarantee coverage for people with pre-existing
conditions and to lower cost for those who can’t afford to buy
plans, said  Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for the Washington
lobby group, America’s Health Insurance Plans.  The insurance industry can’t afford to let people sign up
only when they get sick, Zirkelbach said. An alternative being
discussed is to guarantee coverage for all at a lower price for
people who buy into plans during a certain time period,  Dan Mendelson , chief executive officer of Washington-based
consulting firm Avalere Health.  “It’s using a carrot instead of a stick,” Mendelson said
in a telephone interview.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Managed Health Index rose $1.17
at 4 p.m., or less than a percent, to 363.66, after rising as
high as $372.22 earlier in the day.  U.S. District Judge  Henry Hudson , of Richmond, Virginia,
didn’t order the government to stop implementing the law. He
ruled that outside of the mandate, the rest of the law should
stand. Today’s ruling is one among about two dozen suits against
the health law. Judges in two other cases, in Michigan and a
different Virginia court, have ruled that the entire law is
constitutional.  32 Million People  Through the individual mandate and expansions of Medicaid
and employer-based coverage, the health-care overhaul signed
into law by President  Barack Obama  in March was estimated to
provide 32 million more people with insurance coverage by 2019,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Because the mandate doesn’t go into effect until 2014, the
White House doesn’t need to make any decisions on changes, said
 Nancy-Ann DeParle , director of the White House Office of Health
Reform, in an interview. She said she expected the provision to
be upheld by higher courts.  “We have plenty of time,” DeParle told Bloomberg TV.
“It’s a really important provision and we’re confident we’ll
prevail on it in the end.”  The Republican Party isn’t likely to push for a change in
the mandate before the 2012 elections, Avalere’s Mendelson said.
That’s because Republicans want to keep controversy over the
mandate alive, believing the requirement is unpopular with
voters, he said.  Republicans React  Representative  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican in line
to become House majority leader next year, called on Obama and
Attorney General  Eric Holder  to ask the Supreme Court for an
expedited review of the health-law challenge.  “We must not burden our states, employers, and families
with the costs and uncertainty created by this unconstitutional
law,” Cantor said in a statement.  The ruling demonstrates that “Congress must obey the
Constitution rather than make it up as we go along,” Senator
 Orrin Hatch , Republican of Utah, said in a statement.  The Obama administration faced a similar situation when
pushing  insurers  to comply with a requirement in the law to
offer coverage to children with pre-existing conditions.
Insurers wanted to set up a separate, limited enrollment period
in which children who had pre-existing conditions or were sick
would be able to sign up for coverage.  The White House  told insurers  then that they couldn’t set
up different sign-up periods for sick and healthy kids.  Coverage Expansion  The government could take a similar route with the coverage
expansion, using some combination of existing state law, federal
and state regulations, and voluntary agreements with insurers to
offer incentives for people to sign up before they get sick.  The White House needs to begin discussions with
congressional leaders about an alternative to the individual
mandate because a ruling upholding the requirement is “well
short of a certainty,” said  Henry Aaron , a health-care policy
expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington.  While there are other options to an insurance mandate that
might be considered, almost all would require a higher subsidy
so people would see it in their interest to buy insurance, Aaron
said in a telephone interview.  “The only way this works is if they offer an adequate
subsidy and it’s debatable whether the law currently does
that,” he said. “It would be prudent for the White House to
start these discussions now.”  Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives, who will
be in the majority next year, plan a vote to repeal the health
law, said John Murray, a spokesman for Rep. Eric Cantor, a
Virginia Republican who will be the Republican leader. He said
they are no plans for a separate vote to repeal only the
mandate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Wayne  in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 