-- AGL Slumps After Bid to Buy NSW Power Assets Fails; CLP Said to Succeed
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-12-14T06:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/agl-energy-s-bid-for-nsw-assets-fail-amid-reports-origin-truenergy-to-win.html
AGL Energy Ltd.  fell the most in
almost two years in Sydney after failing to buy power assets
from Australia’s New South Wales state amid reports rival  Origin
Energy Ltd.  and a unit of  CLP Holdings Ltd.  succeeded.  AGL, which said it couldn’t justify making a higher bid,
slumped 4.9 percent to A$15.07 by the 4:10 p.m. close, the most
since Jan. 23, 2009. Origin halted its stock for an announcement
on an acquisition and CLP suspended its shares in Hong Kong.
Australia’s benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index  gained 0.2 percent.  AGL lost an opportunity to add customers and increase
earnings through an acquisition of some of the assets, estimated
by Citigroup Inc. to be worth as much as A$8 billion ($8
billion). The state put retailers EnergyAustralia, Country
Energy and Integral Energy up for sale, as well as “gentrader”
contracts, or trading rights for the electricity produced by
state-owned generators.  “No doubt it’s disappointing they didn’t get it,”  John Hirjee , an analyst at Deutsche Bank in Melbourne, said by phone
today. “But if what they’re saying is correct and they didn’t
want to pay a high price for the assets, then they are showing
pricing discipline.”  AGL may lose its position as Australia’s biggest
electricity retailer if Origin buys Integral Energy and Country
Energy and TRUenergy Holdings Pty, the Australian unit of CLP,
gets EnergyAustralia, Hirjee said.  Alternative Plans  Sydney-based AGL said today it plans to build a new gas-
fired power plant in New South Wales as part of an alternative
growth strategy. “AGL has said it would only bid for assets at
prices that achieved the required returns for shareholders,”
the utility said in a statement. “AGL’s bids for assets were at
prices consistent with this principle.”  AGL will book a charge of about A$13 million for costs
incurred in the bidding process, it said. The company will aim
to “leverage its market position” to gain customers after
failing to buy any of the power retailers.  An EnergyAustralia purchase would boost TRUenergy’s
customer accounts by 1.4 million, Citigroup said in a report
today. The retailer and the power generating asset Delta Western
may be worth A$2.1 billion, the report said.  Australia’s most populous state may announce today that
TRUenergy will buy EnergyAustralia, while Origin will get
Integral Energy and Country Energy, the Australian Financial
Review and the Australian newspapers reported today.  EnergyAustralia is valued at A$1.3 billion, Integral is
worth A$772 million and Country Energy may sell for A$1.03
billion, Citigroup estimated in a November report.  Citigroup said AGL would have been able to increase
earnings with a retailer acquisition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 