-- Air New Zealand Is in Talks to Sell Lie-Flat Coach Seats to Other Carriers
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-12-14T09:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/air-nz-in-talks-to-sell-lie-flat-coach-seats-to-other-carriers.html
Air New Zealand Ltd.  said it’s in
talks to sell its lie-flat economy-class seat technology to
other carriers ahead of the delivery of the first plane
fitted with the units.  The carrier is “hopeful” it will be able to license
out the system, which it developed, Chief Executive Officer
 Rob Fyfe  told reporters yesterday in Queenstown, New Zealand,
where the Star Alliance is holding a meeting. He declined to
elaborate further on the talks.  Air New Zealand will next week receive the first Boeing
Co. 777 fitted with the SkyCouch system, which enables three
coach-class seats to be converted into a lie-flat bed. The
airline is rolling out the new product and seeking to form a
venture with  Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd.  to fend off
competition from Qantas Airways Ltd. and Emirates Airline.  Bookings for the SkyCouch are in line with traditional
seats, even though the new product can only be booked through
the Auckland-based company’s website, which accounts for less
than half of total sales, Fyfe said.  “We are expecting that will lead to superior seat
yields,” he said. Yield is a measure of average fares.  Air New Zealand  fell  0.7 to close at NZ$1.41 in
Wellington  trading. The shares have gained 17 percent this
year, compared with a 1.8 percent advance on the NZX 50 Index.  Virgin Blue Alliance  Regulators may rule on the proposed alliance with Virgin
Blue this week, Fyfe said. The two carriers are aiming to
collaborate on Australia-New Zealand routes, product planning,
codesharing and frequent flyer programs to pare costs.  The Australian Competition & Consumer Commission
rejected the tie-up in a Sept. 10 draft ruling saying it may
reduce competition. The airlines have offered to add seats on
six routes to allay regulators’ concerns.  “They are asking all the right questions and hopefully
we are giving all the right answers,”  John Borghetti , CEO of
Brisbane-based Virgin Blue, Australia’s No. 2 carrier, told
reporters separately at the same event.  Air New Zealand , 74 percent owned by the nation’s
government, expects to receive its first Boeing 787 in 2013
after production delays at Boeing disrupted deliveries, Fyfe
said.  Delays have been “frustrating” and may affect the
carrier’s ability to start new routes, he said, declining to
comment on possible compensation.  “A number of routes we fly only support a single
carrier and if those delays result in another carrier
emerging before we get a chance, we can get locked out,” he
said. Still, “we have lost no enthusiasm for the aircraft.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Queenstown, New Zealand at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  