-- Airbus Lifts Demand Outlook as Emerging Markets Boom
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-12-13T16:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/airbus-lifts-aircraft-demand-outlook-as-emerging-markets-boom.html
Airbus SAS  said it is more
optimistic about long-term growth prospects in the aviation
industry than a year ago and predicted almost 26,000 passenger
and freighter aircraft will be sold over the next 20 years.  The forecast is 900 aircraft higher than the prediction
that Toulouse, France-based Airbus made a year ago, the company
said in a statement today. Most of the aircraft in demand in the
next two decades will be in the single-aisle category, which
Airbus serves with its A320 series of jets, the company said.  Asia Pacific will become the world’s most important region
for air traffic and aircraft demand, with China and India
growing at double the rate of mature markets such as North
America and Europe, Airbus Chief Operating Officer  John Leahy 
said at a press conference in Toulouse to present the report.  “Traffic in the developed world doubles on average every
15 years, in developing markets it’s now doubling every six
years,” Leahy said.  In 2009, Asia Pacific accounted for 27 percent of world
traffic. By 2029, travel on airlines based in that region will
represent 33 percent by revenue passenger kilometers, an
industry gauge, Leahy said. Airlines in North America, the
biggest generator of traffic in 2009, will carry 20 percent of
world traffic by then, while European airlines will fall to 25
percent, Airbus predicted.  Middle East Demand  Of the additional passenger aircraft needed in the next two
decades, 10,000 will replace older and less efficient aircraft,
and about 15,000 will be for growth. The company said emerging
economies are leading a recovery in the civil aviation industry,
with travel demand rising in India, the Middle East and South
America.  The Middle East, whose airlines in 2009 carried 6 percent
of all airline traffic, will see that portion rise to 9 percent
in 2029, Leahy said. The manufacturer’s largest customer for the
A380 superjumbo is Dubai-based Emirates, which has ordered 90 of
the double-decker aircraft.  Neither Airbus nor  Boeing Co.  provide a breakdown of them
market share they expect to get in their 20-year global market
forecasts. Leahy predicted that new manufacturers from countries
including China may need as long as 20 years to establish a
family of aircraft that can compete with Boeing and Airbus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  