-- Airgas CEO Faces Divided Board in Takeover Fight
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-12-13T21:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/airgas-ceo-mccausland-faces-divided-board-after-air-products-revised-bid.html
Airgas Inc. founder and Chief
Executive Officer  Peter McCausland  is facing resistance among
his directors after 14 months of battling a hostile takeover bid
from Air Products & Chemicals Inc.  Three independent directors threatened to file a lawsuit if
Airgas didn’t give them their own legal and financial advisers,
according to a Dec. 7 letter disclosed by Airgas today. Airgas
subsequently appointed a third bank as an adviser. The three
directors also said Airgas Chairman  John van Roden Jr.  made a
“misleading” claim about the board’s position on the offer.  Air Products is seeking to acquire Radnor, Pennsylvania-
based Airgas for $5.9 billion to become the largest North
American industrial-gas company. The board dispute may boost Air
Products’ chances of prevailing in a trial in Delaware, where
it’s asking Chancery Court Judge  William B. Chandler III  to
invalidate Airgas’s poison-pill takeover defense, said  Louis Meyer , a New York-based analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc.  “It’s going to affect the judge’s thought process,”
Meyer, who tracks takeover contests, said in a telephone
interview today. “The concern is that the shareholders’ will is
not being reflected in the board’s decision making.”  Airgas rose 35 cents to $63.50 as of 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Allentown, Pennsylvania-based
Air Products on Dec. 9 raised its bid to $70 a share from
$65.50.  Mischaracterized Views  Air Products’ bid values Airgas at 11.3 times the target
company’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization. That compares with the median of 9 times ebitda in
27 offers for U.S. chemical companies in the past five years,
according to Bloomberg data.  In their Dec. 7 letter to Van Roden, the three Airgas
directors --  Robert L. Lumpkins ,  John P. Clancey , and  Ted B. Miller  -- said that unless they got independent advisers, they
might notify the judge that “we are without appropriate
representation” and initiate a lawsuit. They also said Van
Roden mischaracterized their views when he said the board was
unanimous in insisting on a $78 a share takeover price.  “Neither you nor Airgas are authorized to make statements
on our individual behalves -- including by reference to
‘unanimous’ views of the board, of which we are now members -
without our express and specific consent,” they said.  In a Nov. 2 letter to Air Products CEO John McGlade, Van
Roden had said the board had concluded “unanimously” that
Airgas is worth at least $78 a share. Airgas cited the letter in
a brief filed in the poison-pill case on Nov. 11.  Disputed Price  “We do not believe that such an unequivocal statement is
accurate,” the three directors said in the Dec. 7 letter.  “At no time did any of us take the position that a $78
offer price was the price of admission to having any
discussions,” they said. “It would be wrong for you to
insinuate otherwise to the court.”  Lumpkins, Clancey and Miller were elected as Air Products
nominees in September and joined the other Airgas directors in
unanimously rejecting Air Products’ $65.50-a-share offer in
October.  Van Roden, after conferring with other directors, told the
three in a Dec. 8 letter that “all of the statements that
Airgas had made to the court and publicly have been accurate.”  Airgas said today that the board’s nine independent
directors on Dec. 10 chose a third investment bank to represent
the full board, and the board agreed to reimburse the three
directors for some legal expenses.  Credit Suisse  The new bank is Credit Suisse Group AG, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter, joining existing advisers
Bank of America Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  CNBC’s  David Faber  reported Dec. 10 that the three
directors didn’t support the Nov. 2 letter. In response, an
Airgas spokesman, who said he was acting on behalf of the three
directors, issued a statement saying “we deny the charges of
division on the board, we condemn the spread of unproductive
rumors.”  Praxair Inc. is the largest U.S. industrial-gases producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net  