-- Amgen Drug's Prostate Study Results May Boost Sales by $2 Billion a Year
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-12-14T21:25:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/amgen-says-xgeva-trial-shows-drug-slows-spread-of-prostate-cancer-to-bone.html
Amgen Inc. ’s denosumab delayed the
spread of prostate cancer to men’s bones in a study that may
help boost sales by $2 billion a year. The company’s shares rose
the most since June.  Use of the drug stalled the malignancy’s spread by 4.2
months, Thousand Oaks, California-based Amgen said in a
statement yesterday. The study, part of the final phase of
testing usually needed for U.S. approval, didn’t find a survival
benefit.  Amgen, the world’s biggest biotechnology company, markets
the drug as Xgeva for use in cancer. If the medicine can
eventually win U.S. clearance to prevent breast cancer and
prostate cancer from moving into bone, it may add $2 billion in
 sales  a year for each use, said  Eric Schmidt , a Cowen & Co.
analyst in New York. The drug was approved Nov. 18 to reduce
fractures after tumors had already migrated to bones.  “If it also works in breast cancer prevention, Xgeva could
become one of the biggest cancer drugs ever,” Schmidt said in a
Dec. 10 telephone interview. “No drug has ever before shown the
ability to prevent bone metastases.”  Amgen rose $2.65, or 4.9 percent, to $56.76 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The stock
has  fallen  less than 1 percent in the past 12 months.  Denosumab targets a protein called  RANK ligand  that Amgen
scientists discovered in the mid-1990s. This protein works with
others in a process that breaks down old bone in the body and
replaces it with new. It also plays a role in weakening the
bones of people with  osteoporosis  and cancer.  Osteoporosis Approval  The medicine entered the U.S. market in June when a lower-
dose version, sold under the name Prolia, won approval from the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration to treat osteoporosis in older
women. Schmidt said it may have $1.9 billion in U.S.  sales  in
2015 for the two approved uses. Sales outside the U.S. should be
about the same, he said.  Amgen started a trial in June that aims to enroll 4,500
women with breast cancer to see if Xgeva can delay or prevent
the malignancy from spreading to their bones. That study’s
results aren’t expected to be released until about 2016, said
 Roger Perlmutter , Amgen’s executive vice president for research
and development, in a telephone interview yesterday.  “We feel that the success of the prostate cancer study
certainly augurs well for the ultimate outcome of the breast
cancer study,” he said.  Data to be Analyzed  Amgen will analyze data from the prostate cancer study of
1,432 men, and meet with regulators, before deciding whether to
seek approval for that indication, Perlmutter said.  The FDA may require evidence that the drug extends men’s
lives before approving it as prevention agent, said  Robyn Karnauskas , an analyst for Deutsche Bank in New York. Preventing
cancer from reaching the bones is an $800 million opportunity,
she said yesterday in a note to investors.  “Investors have been ignoring this company and its
potential,” said  Bill Smead , a portfolio manager at Smead
Capital Management Inc. in Seattle, in a telephone interview
yesterday. “It’s been stuck in the $45 to $60 trading range
forever and we’d like to see the thing break out. This is a big
deal.” Smead owned almost 111,000 Amgen shares on Sept. 30.  Cowen’s Schmidt predicted that positive results from the
study would push shares up by as much as $10. That would be an
18 percent rise over yesterday’s closing price of $54.11.  Yaron Werber , a Citibank analyst, said Amgen may rise as high as $65,
in a note to investors.  In Schmidt’s best-case scenario,  worldwide revenue  for all
uses of denosumab may climb to $12 billion or higher, making it
one of best-selling drugs in the world.  High Cancer Risk  The men who took part in the prostate cancer study released
yesterday were considered to have a high risk that their
malignancies would spread to bones. They had high levels of
prostate specific antigen, or PSA, which continued to rise even
after the men took different drugs or had surgery to lower their
testosterone levels.  PSA, a protein produced by the prostate gland, rises as a
result of cancer or some prostate conditions and is used to help
diagnose and monitor cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 