-- Hana to Sell $1 Billion of New Shares for Korea Exchange Bank Acquisition
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a   a n d   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-12-13T00:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/hana-to-sell-1-billion-of-new-shares-for-korea-exchange-bank-acquisition.html
Hana Financial Group Inc.  said it
plans to sell 1.2 trillion won ($1 billion) worth of new shares
to help pay for its 4.7 trillion won acquisition of Korea
Exchange Bank.  The share sale plan needs the board’s approval, Seoul-based
Hana said in a regulatory filing today. Apart from new shares,
Hana will use internal reserves to fund about half the purchase
and the remainder by selling bonds, Chairman  Kim Seung Yu  said
in Seoul yesterday after meeting with overseas investors. Kim’s
comments were confirmed by spokesman Lee Jung Dae by phone today.  Hana, South Korea’s fourth-largest financial company by
assets, signed a contract on Nov. 25 to buy a 51 percent stake
in Korea Exchange Bank from Lone Star Funds for 4.7 trillion won.
The deal would be Hana’s largest acquisition and vault it past
Shinhan Financial Group Co. to become the country’s third-
largest financial company.  “The funding plan is in line with the market’s expectation,
and I see that amount of new shares and bonds being easily
absorbed in the market,” said  Shim Kyu Sun , a banking analyst at
HI Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.  Hana declined 0.2 percent to 41,300 won at 9:09 a.m. in
Seoul trading, compared with a 0.1 percent advance in the
benchmark Kospi index.  The firm plans to sell new common and preferred shares to
third parties, and each will have less than a 9 percent stake in
the firm, Kim said. Hana will pursue long-term investors
including overseas sovereign wealth funds and private-equity
groups, the chairman said, without naming potential investors.  Hana will receive letters of intent from investors about
the share sale in January and will probably complete the funding
by the end of that month, according the chairman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net ;
Bomi Lim at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  