-- Blackburn Rovers Fire Manager Sam Allardyce After Buyout by Indian Owners
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-12-13T18:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/manager-sam-allardyce-leaves-blackburn-rovers-soccer-club-new-owners-say.html
Blackburn Rovers manager Sam
Allardyce was fired today by the Premier League club, which last
month became the first Indian-owned English soccer team.  “We have taken this decision as part of our wider plans
and ambitions for the club,” poultry firm Venky’s Group said on
the team’s website. Allardyce and assistant manager Neil
McDonald are leaving with “immediate effect.”  The club is 13th in the league, with 21 points from 17
games, after losing 2-1 at local rivals Bolton Wanderers
yesterday. It’s five points clear of the three-team relegation
zone.  “I am very shocked and disappointed to be leaving
Blackburn Rovers,” Allardyce, 56, said in a statement released
by the League Managers’ Association. “I am extremely proud to
have managed this club and I enjoyed a fantastic relationship
with the players, my staff and the supporters during my time in
charge. I now wish them and the football club every success for
the future.”  His departure comes a week after Chris Hughton was
dismissed at Newcastle, the first Premier League firing this
campaign.  Allardyce took over at Blackburn in December 2008,
replacing the dismissed  Paul Ince  when the club was in 19th spot
in the 20-team league. The former Bolton and Newcastle manager
signed a three-year contract. Rovers finished that season 15th
and came 10th in 2009-10, when it also reached the semifinals of
the League Cup.  Previous Posts  Allardyce has been linked in media speculation with the
coaching post at bottom club West Ham, where Avram Grant is
under pressure after getting only two league wins from 17 games
this season. Blackburn hosts the Hammers in its next match, on
Dec. 18.  First-team coach Steve Kean has been put in temporary
charge at Blackburn, the 1995 Premier League champion which was
bought by Venky’s on Nov. 19.  Allardyce previously managed clubs including Blackpool and
Notts County, and his playing career included spells at Bolton,
Millwall and Preston.  Rovers -- built up by the investment of late British steel
magnate Jack Walker and controlled by a trust bearing his name -
- had been looking for new owners for more than two years. Two
other Indian groups had been linked with a buyout before
Venky’s, a supplier to McDonald’s Corp., KFC and Pizza Hut in
India, made its move.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  