-- Park's Goal Lifts Manchester United Over Arsenal at Premier League Summit
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-12-14T01:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/manchester-united-beats-arsenal-to-move-to-top-of-england-s-premier-league.html
Ji-Sung Park  scored the only goal as
Manchester United defeated Arsenal to replace the London team at
the top of English soccer’s Premier League.  Park directed a deflected cross beyond the reach of rookie
goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny in the 41st minute at Old Trafford
last night to send United two points clear at the top. United’s
 Wayne Rooney  missed a second-half penalty.  United has 34 points having played one fewer match than
Arsenal, Manchester City and Chelsea, the three teams behind it,
and remains the only unbeaten club among England’s four
divisions. The Red Devils visit defending champion Chelsea in
five days.  “These games are important,” United manager  Alex Ferguson 
told his team’s website. “Arsenal were top of the league and we
were in third, so it was an important result for us.”  Arsenal, which had entered the match one point ahead of
United and with the Premier League’s best away record, has now
failed to beat United or Chelsea in its past 11 meetings with
the last two clubs to win England’s league championship.  Injuries forced Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  to hand 20-
year-old Szczesny, the third-choice goalkeeper, his first
Premier League start. Captain  Cesc Fabregas  and  Robin van Persie 
began the game on the bench.  Neither team had a clear scoring chance before Park’s goal.  Rooney and Nani tested Szczesny with long-range shots and
Nani fired wide after Arsenal’s defense failed to clear. Gunners
striker Marouane Chamakh headed straight at goalkeeper  Edwin van der Sar  with the visiting team’s best first-half attempt.  ‘Big-game Player’  With halftime approaching, Park arched his neck to meet
Nani’s deflected cross and beat Szczesny with a looping header.
It was the South Korean midfielder’s sixth goal for United this
season, his best tally since joining the club in July 2005.  “Ji is a big-game player,” United defender  Rio Ferdinand 
told United’s website. “He is a proper team player and we fully
appreciate that. He stepped up today.”  Anderson had a chance to double United’s lead 10 minutes
after the interval, though Szczesny blocked his goal-bound shot.
Nani then shot over the crossbar from 12 yards after
dispossessing  Gael Clichy .  Rooney, who was isolated in a lone striker’s role for most
of the match, was given the opportunity to make it 2-0 in the
73rd minute when Clichy slipped and was judged to have handled
the ball in the penalty area. The England striker blazed his
penalty into the stands.  He nearly made amends for the miss in the 86th minute,
though Szczesny was able to get a hand to the chipped shot.  “You always worry at 1-0, it only takes a second to lose
one,” Ferguson added. “But I thought our back four were
fantastic. If my back four keep that foundation of not conceding
any goals it gives us a really good chance.”  Second-place Arsenal and Manchester City have 32 points,
with Chelsea, on a five-game run without a win, a point further
back in fourth.  “It’s a massive game now,” Ferguson said of the Dec. 19
match at Chelsea. “That will go a long way to establishing the
top of the league. It’s a big, big game for United.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  