-- JGBs Signal Economy Rebound as Tankan Points to Contraction: Japan Credit
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-12-14T04:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/tankan-points-to-contraction-as-bond-market-signals-recovery-japan-credit.html
Japanese bond yields are rising the
most since June 2008 as traders look toward faster global growth
just when the nation’s economy shows signs of starting to
contract.  The Bank of Japan’s December  Tankan  report will show an
index of sentiment among large manufacturers dropped for the
first time in seven quarters, sliding to 3 from 8 in September,
according to the median forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey before tomorrow’s announcement. Data for October
showed industrial  output  fell by the most since February 2009,
 export growth  slowed and the  jobless rate  rose.  At the same time, three-month euroyen futures rates for
September delivery, which indicate investor expectations for
interest rates, touched 0.42 percent on Dec. 9, the most since
April, and 10-year government bond yields were at 1.24 percent
today, near last week’s six-month high of 1.27 percent. The
mismatch shows growing conflict between investors dumping bonds
and analysts and executives concerned Japan’s year-long recovery
may end.  “There’s no evidence that Japan’s economy is gaining
strong momentum at the moment,” said  Jun Fukashiro , who helps
oversee about $18 billion as chief fund manager at Toyota Asset
Management Co. “The current wave of selling in Japan’s short-
term market can’t be justified as deflation is persisting and
corporate sentiment is starting to dwindle.”  Yields on Japanese government  bonds  have climbed 31 basis
points this quarter, setting for the biggest quarterly increase
since June 2008 on optimism about a global recovery. The 1.2
percent 10-year bond due Dec. 20, 2020 was unchanged at 1.24
percent today, according to Bloomberg data.  Lost 2.1 Percent  Investors in Japanese government bonds lost 2.1 percent
since Sept. 30, while those who bought  Treasuries  lost 2.7
percent, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  Euroyen contracts for September delivery fell the last
three months, lifting the implied yield by 15.5 basis points, or
0.15 percentage point, to 0.405 percent today from a five-year
low of 0.255 percent in August.  The advance in rates was partly because of selling by
Japanese banks that suffered losses on Treasuries holdings, said
 Shinsuke Kanabu , a project and research director at Tokyo-based
money market dealer Central Tanshi Co.  ‘No Double-Dip’  “People are expecting there will be no double-dip
recession,” said  Shinji Hiramatsu , senior investment manager in
Tokyo at Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset Management Co. Ltd. which
oversees about 1.5 trillion yen. “China is picking up and the
U.S. is getting better, so people are expecting Japan could be
next.”  China’s  industrial-output  growth accelerated to a 13.3
percent annual pace in November, while retail sales rose almost
19 percent. U.S. gross domestic product will expand 2.6 percent
in 2011, more than the 1.4 percent predicted for the euro region
and the 1.4 percent forecast for Japan, according to the median
estimate of at least 15 economists in Bloomberg surveys.  Japan’s economy may shrink this quarter as Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan ’s stimulus spending fades, the government-affiliated
Economic Planning Association said last week, citing forecasts
from economists. Exports rose 7.8 percent in October, the
slowest pace this year, while industrial production fell for a
fifth month and the unemployment rate climbed to 5.1 percent.  Capital Outlays  The Tankan may show that companies’ forecasts for capital
outlays this year have increased. Large companies aim to boost
 spending  by 2.7 percent in the year ending March 31, more than
the 2.4 percent planned three months ago, according to the
Bloomberg News survey.  The rise in yields on euroyen futures is impeding the Bank
of Japan’s efforts to spur the economy through asset purchases
by driving up borrowing costs.  The Bank of Japan seeks to bolster growth with 35 trillion
yen ($419 billion) of asset purchases. The bank also cut its
target rate to as low as zero in October and introduced a 5
trillion-yen fund to buy bonds and assets including exchange-
traded funds and real-estate investment trusts, aiming to add
money to the economy.  Japan’s economy expanded at an annual 4.5 percent rate in
the three months ended Sept. 30, the Cabinet Office said Dec. 9.
In dollar terms, the $3.96 trillion economy, which returned to
growth at the end of last year, remained larger than China’s
$3.95 trillion economy in the first nine months of 2010, the
Cabinet Office said.  The BOJ’s plans have driven up prices for assets targeted
by the central bank’s fund, including company bonds rated BBB or
higher and real estate investment trusts.  Corporate Yields  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold five-year
corporate bonds rated BBB over government notes of similar
maturity narrowed to 106 basis points yesterday from 121 on Oct.
5, when the BOJ announced the asset-purchase program.  The  Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index  has advanced 14 percent
since Oct. 5. Japan’s central bank plans to buy 50 billion yen
of REITs.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecasts the BOJ will need to
expand stimulus measures to boost the economy even as the yen’s
decline helps exporters. The yen has dropped 4 percent against
the dollar from a 15-year high of 80.22 reached Nov. 1.  “The BOJ is going to keep its cautious stance because we
know the yen is not getting stronger but at the same time we
also notice the economy is getting worse,” said Chiwoong Lee,
senior economist at Goldman Sachs in Tokyo. “So, I am betting
the BOJ is going to keep its easy stance. We are actually
expecting more additional easing in February.”  90 Per Dollar  The yen will trade at 90 per dollar by the end of 2011,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 32
analysts.  Bonds designed to protect investors against inflation show
money managers in Japan anticipate prices will decline over the
next five years. The difference between yields on five-year
Japanese government notes and inflation-linked debt widened by
one basis point today to minus 0.68 percent.  The cost to protect Japanese government debt against non-
payment for five years with credit-default swaps was at 69.85
basis points yesterday, declining from 73.68 points on Nov. 30,
CMA prices in New York show. The contracts pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  