-- ARM Holdings Plans to Challenge Intel's Server-Processor Dominance in 2014
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-12-13T11:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/arm-plans-to-challenge-intel-s-server-chip-dominance-in-2014.html
ARM Holdings Plc , the top designer
of processors for smartphones, is pushing into chips for server
computers and aims to start eroding  Intel Corp. ’s dominance in
that market in 2014.  Server manufacturers are already looking at chips based on
ARM’s technology, Chief Executive Officer  Warren East  said last
week in an interview. The designs will help create lower-power
computers, which will make data centers more efficient. Still,
the effort will take years to bear fruit, he said.  “Work is under way: System designers are actively
considering  ARM  architectures,” said East, whose company is
based in Cambridge, England. “We don’t want to raise
expectations that next year there are going to be a lot of ARM
servers. Of course, there aren’t.”  ARM and Intel are encroaching on each other’s turf.  Intel ,
which accounts for about 90 percent of the processors in
servers, is attempting to parlay that strength into the
handheld-device market. After a decade of trying to break into
phones, Intel says its chips will begin appearing in models by
the second half of next year.  ARM customers are tackling the server market by adapting
its latest mobile-phone chip design, which debuted in September.
ARM’s Cortex lineup is the basis of chips that power  Apple
Inc. ’s iPhone, as well as devices using  Google Inc. ’s Android
software.  Stock Run-Up  ARM  shares  have more than doubled in value this year,
spurred by the explosion of smartphones using its technology.
 Qualcomm Inc. , Texas Instruments Inc. and  Samsung Electronics
Co.  all rely on ARM’s chip designs in processors for phones.  By freeing ARM-designed chips from the constraints of a
battery -- a limitation they face in portable devices -- they
can run fast enough to power servers, East said. And because
they were designed from the ground up to work on battery power,
they’re more energy-efficient than Intel  chips  and aren’t as
hot, he said.  “We could certainly halve the power of these things,”
East said. As data centers get packed more tightly with
computers and chips, “the challenge is delivering the energy
and taking the heat away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  