-- Marubeni to Spend $297 Million to Double Global Water Assets by March 2013
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2010-12-14T01:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/marubeni-to-spend-297-million-to-double-global-water-assets-by-march-2013.html
Marubeni Corp. , the Japanese owner
of Chile’s third-biggest water company, will spend 25 billion
yen ($297 million) to double the size of its international water
assets in two years.  Marubeni, based in Tokyo, plans to buy water-service
companies in Southeast Asia, Australia and the Middle East as
well as add to assets in Chile and China to double the number of
people it supplies to 10 million by March 2013, said Yoji Ibuki,
head of Marubeni’s environment infrastructure unit.  The company this month completed a 40 billion yen
acquisition of Aguas Nuevas SA of Chile and the proposed
investments will propel the company into the top 10 global water
providers, Ibuki said.  Veolia Environment SA  and  Suez
Environment Co.  of France and Spain’s Sociedad General de Aguas
de Barcelona SA, the three largest water companies, supply
services to about 300 million people, according to Marubeni.  “Water and infrastructure projects are preferred
businesses for Japanese trading houses since the government
traditionally helps with a large portion of the investment,”
said  Yasuhiro Narita , a Tokyo-based analyst at Nomura Securities
Co. “To clinch bigger, more attractive water deals, it’s good
for Marubeni to chalk up a track record.”  China Expansion  Marubeni’s  shares  rose 0.7 percent to 572 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange at 10:38 a.m. local time, while the benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average was up 0.1 percent. The stock has
gained 12 percent this year in contrast to a 2.2 percent decline
in the benchmark.  Marubeni and its Beijing unit hold a 30 percent stake in a
sewage treatment company in Anhui province, eastern China, which
also operates units in Guangdong, Jiangsu and Hunan provinces.
Marubeni plans to expand its business in Southeast Asia through
the Chinese venture, Ibuki said.  Asian countries the company wants to invest in include
China, Thailand, the Philippines and Indonesia, Ibuki said in an
interview on Dec. 10 in Tokyo.  French companies are also expanding in China. Suez Chief
Executive Officer  Jean-Louis Chaussade  said in June his company,
which earns 80 percent of its revenue from Europe, would pursue
joint ventures in China.  In Marubeni’s latest deal in Chile, the trading house and
Innovation Network Corporation of Japan, a government-backed
investment fund, bought Aguas Nuevas from a unit of  Banco
Santander SA . Acquired assets include 33 water purification
facilities such as desalination plants and 39 sewage farms,
Marubeni said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Yuji Okada  in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 