-- Dollar Strengthens, Stocks, Commodities Rise as China Avoids Rate Increase
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-12-13T08:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/asian-stocks-dollar-copper-climb-as-china-refrains-from-increasing-rates.html
Stocks advanced, copper and rubber
jumped to records, and the dollar strengthened for a sixth day
after China refrained from raising interest rates and as
optimism increased that the U.S. recovery is gathering steam.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.4 percent to 133.62
as of 5 p.m. in Tokyo and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.3
percent. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1
percent. Copper rallied as much as 1.7 percent in London and
rubber gained for a fourth day in Tokyo. The  Dollar Index , which
tracks the currency against six major peers, added 0.3 percent,
and was set for its longest stretch of gains since June.  China on Dec. 10 ordered banks to set aside larger reserves
and didn’t announce an interest-rate increase, even as data
released the following day showed the inflation rate reached 5.1
percent in November while industrial-output growth and retail
sales grew. As Federal Reserve policy makers meet tomorrow, a
U.S. Commerce Department report will likely show retail sales
climbed for a fifth straight month, adding to data that showed
consumer confidence increased in December to a six-month high.  “A rate increase would produce a greater impact on the
wider economy, so their cautious measure is positive for the
market” said  Lam Chee Mun , a fund manager at TA Investment
Management in Kuala Lumpur.  Two stocks rose for each that fell on the MSCI  Asian index ,
which has climbed 11 percent this year. The Shanghai Composite
jumped 2.9 percent, its biggest advance since Oct. 15. Gains
today helped trim the index’s 2010 loss to 11 percent, still the
steepest drop among Asian markets this year.  China Vanke Co. ,
the nation’s largest developer by value, rose 3.7 percent.  ‘More Effective’  Consumer prices  rose a more-than-forecast 5.1 percent from
a year earlier, a statistics bureau report showed in Beijing
over the weekend. Producer-price inflation was 6.1 percent,
higher than any of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had
estimated. The central bank boosted reserve requirements by 50
basis points starting Dec. 20, the third increase in five weeks,
instead of raising borrowing costs.  “The government seems to be using reserve requirements at
the moment as a more effective tool,”  Hugh Simon , co-manager of
the Dreyfus Greater China Fund, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “They need to have some relief about inflation.
Inflation this time, rather than 2008, is coming from the demand
side as people are getting paid more.”  Westpac Banking Corp.  paced a rally in Australia’s four
largest lenders after analysts including  Jarrod Martin  of Credit
Suisse Group said the companies may emerge as victors from
Treasurer Wayne Swan’s package to promote banking competition.
Westpac,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , National Australia Bank
Ltd. and  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  rose at
least 1.1 percent each after Swan’s 13-point plan stopped short
of investors’ most pessimistic expectations.  Copper, Rubber  Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange rose to as high as $9,138.50 a metric ton, surpassing
the $9,091 level reached on Dec. 9. Zinc gained 2.6 percent
while nickel rose 1.3 percent. Rubber futures in Tokyo advanced
to an all-time high of 397.1 yen per kilogram following rains in
Thailand, the largest exporter.  Crude oil gained 0.6 percent in New York to $88.32 a barrel
on speculation oil demand will continue to rise in China, the
world’s largest energy user.  The dollar rose against most of its 16 major counterparts
and traded at 84.19 yen from 83.95 yen in New York.  Retail sales 
climbed 0.6 percent in November after advancing 1.2 percent in
October, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s figures. Confidence
among U.S. consumers increased in December to a six-month high,
the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment showed on Dec. 10.  Yields Climb  Treasuries fell before the release of the data, sending
 yields  on the 10-year note higher by four basis points to 3.36
percent. Fed policy makers may signal this week they will
contemplate boosting purchases of government debt to support job
growth. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said earlier this month
purchases of government securities may be increased beyond the
$600 billion already announced under the Fed’s so-called
quantitative easing program.  The euro retreated against 12 of its 16 major peers before
a Dec. 16 and 17 European Union meeting, where leaders will
discuss the creation of a permanent mechanism to shore up over-
indebted countries. Against the dollar, the shared currency
traded $1.3201 from $1.3226 in New York on Dec. 10  Euro’s Survival  The currency’s survival is “non-negotiable,” requiring
budget vigilance and closer economic cooperation to overcome
“structural weaknesses” within the euro region, German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
said Dec. 10. Splits between EU governments on how to contain
the debt crisis have emerged, with Germany opposed to euro-area
bonds that Italy, Belgium and Luxembourg favor.  “Europe’s large nations may find it hard to provide
further aid when they think about their own domestic factors,”
said  Masahide Tanaka , a senior strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho
Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest bank.
“The euro is struggling to rise, as the dollar is regaining
strength.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  