-- Aurora Diagnostics Plans Debt as Junk-Bond Sales Rebound: New Issue Alert
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-12-13T10:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/aurora-diagnostics-plans-debt-as-junk-bond-sales-rebound-new-issue-alert.html
Aurora Diagnostics Inc. , the
diagnostic laboratory services provider, plans to sell debt
after U.S. junk bond sales rose last week to the highest since
September, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Aurora Diagnostics may sell $230 million of seven-year
notes, according to a person familiar with the transaction. The
debt may be issued as soon as today, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  High-risk, high-yield corporate bond sales climbed last
week to $12 billion, the most since the period ended Sept. 24,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance is
accelerating as U.S. consumer confidence rose to a six-month
high and exports climbed to the most since August 2008.  Novelis Inc. , the Atlanta-based aluminum unit of India’s
Hindalco Industries Ltd., sold $2.5 billion of notes in a two-
part offering and Australia’s  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd.  priced
$1.5 billion of debt after almost doubling the size of its
transaction to lead junk-rated corporate bond issuance last
week, Bloomberg data show.  The extra yield investors demand to own speculative-grade
bonds contracted 6 basis points on Dec. 10 to 554, the narrowest
since April 29, while yields were little changed at 7.93
percent, according to the Bank of America U.S. High Yield Master
II index. Spreads tightened 38 basis points and yields fell 7
basis points last week, the index data show.  High-yield bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and less than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Debt Ratings  Aurora Diagnostics’ notes are graded B2 by Moody’s and CCC+
by Standard & Poor’s. The Palm Beach Gardens, Florida-based
company plans to use proceeds from its sale to refinance debt,
pay for an acquisition and for general corporate purposes, the
person said.  Spreads on investment-grade bonds tightened 11 basis points
last week to 171 and yields rose 29 basis points to 4.144
percent, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S.
Corporate Master index.  Societe Generale SA , the Paris-based bank, and  Merck & Co. ,
the second-largest U.S. drugmaker after Pfizer Inc., each sold
$2 billion of debt to lead investment-grade offerings in the
U.S. last week, Bloomberg data show.  The following is a description of at least $4.24 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  FIRST GULF BANK PJSC plans to sell five-year dollar-
denominated bonds that may yield between 3.25 percent and 3.5
percent, said three people familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. BNP Paribas
SA, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC are arranging meetings with
investors, two people said on Nov. 1. The Abu Dhabi-based lender
is rated A2 by Moody’s.  TRANSNET LTD., South Africa’s state-owned ports, rail and
pipeline operator, said it may sell $1 billion worth of bonds in
international markets to pay for expansion. Transnet has 35.2
billion rand ($5 billion) of debt outstanding.  High Yield  SYNIVERSE HOLDINGS INC. , the communications-equipment
company being acquired by Carlyle Group, plans to sell $475
million of eight-year senior notes, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. Proceeds may be used to fund the
acquisition, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set. The debt may be rated Caa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service and B- by Standard & Poor’s, the person said.  CNO FINANCIAL GROUP INC., the insurer formerly known as
Conseco Inc., plans to sell $300 million of seven-year senior
secured notes, according to a company statement distributed by
PR Newswire. Proceeds may be used, together with borrowings
under a new $325 million senior secured credit facility and
available cash, to retire CNO Financial’s existing senior credit
facility, the Carmel, Indiana-based company said in the
statement.  RES-CARE INC., a provider of support services to special-
needs populations, plans to sell $200 million of senior notes
due 2018 through a private placement, the company said in a
statement distributed by Globe Newswire. Proceeds may be used to
repurchase outstanding senior notes due 2013 and to fund a share
exchange where an affiliate of Onex Corp. will acquire Res-Care,
according to the statement.  AURORA DIAGNOSTICS INC., a closely held specialized
laboratory company, plans to sell $230 million of seven-year
senior unsecured notes, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. The bonds may be issued through the company’s Aurora
Diagnostics Holdings LLC and Aurora Diagnostics Financing Inc.
units, the person said.  CONVATEC INC., a medical products business, plans to sell
$1.87 billion of bonds to refinance debt used to fund its
leveraged buyout, according to three people with knowledge of
the transaction. The company, owned by Nordic Capital AB and
Avista Capital Partners, will issue $1.18 billion of eight-year
senior unsecured notes denominated in dollars and euros and the
equivalent of $690 million of seven-year senior secured notes in
euros, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the sale is private.  IFH PERU LTD.  plans to add up to $100 million to its 8.625
percent 2019 bonds, according to two people with knowledge of
the sale. Barclays Capital and IM Trust are managing the sale.  SWIFT SERVICES HOLDINGS INC., a unit of the largest
truckload carrier in North America, plans to sell $490 million
of eight-year senior second-priority secured notes, according to
two people with knowledge of the sale. Bank of America Corp.,
Morgan Stanley, Wells Fargo Securities, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche
Bank AG and UBS AG are managing the sale. The notes will be used
to repay existing indebtedness, the people said.  MDA LENDING SOLUTIONS , the information- and settlement-
services provider to real estate lenders, may sell $175 million
of senior subordinated notes to help pay for its leveraged
buyout by TPG Capital, according to a Moody’s statement. The
MacDonald, Dettwiler & Associates Ltd. unit is also seeking $400
million of loans.  AFREN PLC , a U.K. oil and gas explorer focused on West
Africa, hired Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and BNP
Paribas SA to manage a sale of senior secured bonds in dollars,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. The company
will meet bond investors in Europe and the U.S., said the
people, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  CYRELA BRAZIL REALTY SA EMPREENDIMENTOS E PARTICIPACOES ,
Brazil’s biggest homebuilder, hired Banco do Brasil SA, Credit
Suisse Group AG, Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Morgan Stanley to
arrange bond investor meetings, according to a person familiar
with the matter. Cyrela will meet with investors in Asia, Europe
and the U.S., said the person, who declined to be identified
because the conversations are private. S&P raised its rating on
the company one step to BB on Sept. 30.  DELONG HOLDINGS LTD., a Singapore-based steel trader, hired
Credit Suisse Group AG to help it organize meetings with
investors ahead of an international sale of guaranteed senior
notes. Money raised will be used to redeem 5 percent convertible
bonds due 2012, to repay bank loans and for acquisitions
relating to iron ore and other raw materials used by the steel
industry, the company said in a statement to Singapore’s stock
exchange. The dollar-denominated notes were assigned a
provisional rating of B3 by Moody’s, the ratings company said in
a note.  FLAKEBOARD CO., the Canadian producer of fiberboard and
particleboard used to build furniture and countertops, plans to
sell $225 million of senior secured notes maturing in 2017, S&P
said in a statement. The ratings company grades the proposed
U.S. dollar-denominated debt as B, according to the statement.  PT ENERGI MEGA PERSADA , Indonesia’s second-biggest listed
oil company, hired Nomura Holdings Inc. to help it with a dollar
bond sale, according to a person familiar with the matter who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  SI ORGANIZATION INC., the Lockheed Martin Corp. unit
formerly known as Enterprise Integration Group, may sell $175
million of senior subordinated notes, according to S&P. Proceeds
may be used with $340 million of bank debt and $370 million of
new common stock to pay for its acquisition by Veritas Capital,
S&P said.  Offerings in Pipeline  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP , the insurer rescued by the
U.S. government, is contemplating a new debt sale, a person
familiar with the matter said. The firm hasn’t considered a
timeline for when it might sell more bonds, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the terms aren’t set. AIG sold
$2 billion of bonds Dec. 1 in its first offering since it was
rescued by the U.S. government in 2008.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-controlled
lender to power projects, hired Credit Agricole CIB, Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc and Standard Chartered Plc to sell $500
million of bonds. Rural Electrification aims to price 5.5-year
notes to yield between 195 basis points and 200 basis points
more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries Finance Director Hari
Das Khunteta said in a telephone interview from New Delhi on
Nov. 10.  PTT EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION PCL, Thailand’s only listed
oil and gas explorer, plans to sell bonds denominated in U.S.
dollars, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
PTT Exploration hired Barclays Plc to manage the sale, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Barclays is arranging a U.S. dollar-denominated medium-term note
program for the company, the person said.  PTA BANK , or Eastern and Southern African Trade and
Development Bank, hired HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Bank
Group Ltd. to arrange bond investor meetings in Europe and Asia,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. The meetings
will be held in Hong Kong, Singapore, Zurich, Geneva and London,
said the people, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. The company may sell dollar bonds after the
meetings, the people said.  MAQUINARIA ESPECIALIZADA MXO TRUST , a special-purpose
company expected to provide construction machinery services to
Corporacion GEO SAB de CV, hired Banco Santander SA to arrange
bond investor meetings, according to a person with knowledge of
the sale. A dollar bond sale may follow the meetings, to be held
in London, Boston, New York and Los Angeles, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  CREDIT BANK OF MOSCOW plans to sell five-year dollar bonds,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The sale of
Reg S securities is being arranged by Commerzbank AG, ING Groep
NV and Raiffeisen Bank International, the banker said.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, hired Morgan
Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to manage a planned $500
million bond sale, its chief executive officer said. The
offering, announced on the Qatar Exchange website, will be
marketed to investors in the U.S., Europe and the Middle East,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in an Oct. 20 telephone interview.  BELARUS may sell debt in the U.S. and Asia, according to
Finance Minister Andrei Kharkovets. “We will undoubtedly enter
the Asian and the American markets,” Kharkovets said in an Oct.
15 interview in Moscow, declining to comment on the timing of
possible sales.  GEORGIAN RAILWAY LLC, the former Soviet republic’s state-
owned rail company, is preparing a bond roadshow in the U.S.,
Giorgi Gagnidze, the company’s financial director, said in
comments broadcast on Rustavi-2 television.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
has not decided on the size of the bond, he said.  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS  hired JPMorgan Chase & Co., the Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc, Standard Bank Plc and Standard Chartered
to help find buyers for a planned bond sale during meetings in
the U.S. and Europe. Isbank made the announcement to the
Istanbul Stock Exchange after the market regulator approved a
sale of 1.45 billion liras ($1.03 billion) of bonds by the bank.
Isbank said the sale will be in dollars.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 