-- Australia's Biggest Banks Likely to Gain From Swan's Reforms, Analysts Say
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-12-13T05:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/australia-s-biggest-banks-likely-to-gain-from-swan-s-reforms-analysts-say.html
Australia’s four largest lenders,
led by  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and  Westpac Banking Corp. ,
may emerge as victors from Treasurer  Wayne Swan ’s package to
promote banking competition, analysts said.  Commonwealth Bank, Westpac,  National Australia Bank Ltd. 
and  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  rose in Sydney
trading as Swan’s  13-point plan  stopped short of investors’ most
pessimistic expectations. A proposal to let financial-services
providers issue covered bonds and broaden access to funds will
help the top lenders the most and makes them the “long-term
winners” from the package, according to Credit Suisse AG.  “The treasurer’s bark was far worse than his bite,” said
 Prasad Patkar , who helps manage about $1.8 billion at Platypus
Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney. “The measures will have no
adverse impact on the major banks at all.”  Swan yesterday announced plans to help customers switch
lenders, strengthen Australia’s smaller banks, and develop the
domestic bond market to allow banks to raise cheaper funds. The
package was a response to public anger at record profits from
the biggest banks, which control more than 80 percent of the
home-loan market, and mortgage-rate advances that outpaced
increases to benchmark borrowing costs at the central bank.  Commonwealth Bank, Australia’s largest, added 1.2 percent
to A$51.20 at the 4:10 p.m. local time close, trimming this
year’s decline to 6.7 percent. Westpac  rose  1.5 percent to
A$22.90, taking the year’s drop to 9.5 percent. National
Australia Bank climbed 1.5 percent to A$24.57 and ANZ Bank
 gained  1.1 percent to A$24.10.  ‘Political Footballs’  In a parliament where no party has an outright majority,
there’s a “tangible” risk some of the treasurer’s plans will
fail, Credit Suisse analysts led by  Jarrod Martin  in Sydney said
in a note to clients dated today.  Swan’s minority Labor government needs support from other
lawmakers in the lower house of parliament to pass legislation.
As he last month said preparations for reforms were underway,
UBS AG said the banks had become “political footballs.”  Swan plans to ban exit fees on new home loans from July
2011 and empower the  Australian Competition & Consumer
Commission  to pursue banks that signal interest-rate changes to
rivals. Aiming to turn credit unions and building societies into
a competitive force, he said a government guarantee on deposits,
put in place after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed, will
be permanent.  ‘Very Modest’  The package is unlikely to ”significantly impact” in the
near term the profitability of the biggest banks or regional
lenders such as  Bank of Queensland Ltd. , Nomura Holdings Inc.
said in a note to clients dated yesterday.  “The outcome appears very modest,” said  Victor German , an
analyst at Nomura in Sydney. “We see the restricted nature of
the reforms as a near-term positive for the majors.”  Since October, Westpac and ANZ Bank have argued that
covered bonds would help the banks reduce their reliance on
foreign debt markets for funding. Australians borrow more than
they save, and the top lenders have all blamed the rising cost
of offshore funds since the crisis on the increase in domestic
mortgage costs.  Covered Bonds  Australian regulators currently ban the sale of covered
bonds because they conflict with local banking laws. Mostly sold
by European banks, covered bonds attract higher ratings than
regular notes because they’re backed by assets such as mortgages
that stay on the lender’s balance sheet and can be sold in a
default.  Allowing covered bonds will help “secure the long-term
safety and sustainability” of Australia’s banking system,
according to a federal document detailing the  reforms . Treasury
may impose a cap on the amount of covered bonds that each bank
can sell, it said, citing 5 percent of an issuer’s total
Australian assets as an example.  That proposal is a “major win for the major banks,”
Credit Suisse said. A 5 percent cap would allow for a total of
about A$100 billion of covered bond sales, Deutsche Bank AG
analysts  Gus Medeiros  and  Colin Tan  wrote in a note to clients
today.  The first sale of covered notes in New Zealand in June, a
NZ$425 million ($318 million) offering by Bank of New Zealand,
was priced at a 38 percent discount to what the nation’s banks
would pay without cover, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  ‘Important Step’  National Australia Bank Chief Executive Officer  Cameron Clyne , appearing before a Senate committee studying competition
in the banking industry in Sydney today, called the covered
bonds proposal an “important step in diversifying funding.”  The lender’s average cost of funding would fall if National
Australia Bank were to finance some of the A$28 billion ($27.6
billion) it requires for the year ending September 2011 with
covered bonds, he said.  Between them, the four biggest banks control almost 90
percent of residential mortgages sold by all banks, and write 83
percent of all loans, according to October data from the
Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority.  Central Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens , said Australia’s
mortgage rates are at appropriate levels for the economy and
access to home loans is “adequate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 