-- Automotive Engineers in Short Supply as U.S. Production Rebounds
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2010-12-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/automotive-engineers-in-short-supply-as-u-s-production-rebounds.html
Ricardo Plc , a service provider to
auto companies, is turning to billboards to find engineers as
the industry, battered by last year’s bankruptcies of General
Motors Corp. and Chrysler LLC, regains sales and production.  Ricardo for the first time put up billboards along Detroit-
area highways yesterday and started running radio ads touting
the engineering-services company as an employment destination as
fuel-economy standards drive demand for efficient powertrains.
 General Motors Co.  and Chrysler Group LLC among others, are
hiring as vehicle output recovers from more than 40-year lows.  Competition for skilled employees is heating up even in
Michigan, where the unemployment rate was 12.8 percent in
October, 3 percentage points higher than the national average.
The state’s jobless rate was second only to Nevada among U.S.
states.  “We’re all playing in the same sandbox, competing for some
of the same talent,”  Kent Niederhofer , president of Van Buren
Township, Michigan-based Ricardo Inc., the U.S. unit of the
engineering-services company. “It isn’t as simple as throwing a
shingle out there and saying ‘Job Opening.’ Attracting this kind
of talent has gotten absolutely tougher and we’re trying to
raise our head above the crowd.”  North American light-vehicle production fell 43 percent in
2009, the year when GM and Chrysler restructured under
bankruptcy court protection. While still about three years from
reaching 2007’s output of 15.1 million, volume should reach 12.9
million next year, a 50 percent increase from 2009, IHS
Automotive in Northville, Michigan, forecasts.  GM, Chrysler  GM, the maker of the Chevrolet Volt gasoline-electric car,
said last month it plans to hire 1,000 engineers in Michigan to
help develop more electric vehicles. Detroit-based GM plans to
sell 10,000 Volts next year and 45,000 in 2012.  Chrysler, the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based automaker run by
 Fiat SpA , is hiring 1,000 engineers and high-tech workers for
its small and midsize vehicles, about 60 percent will be
Chrysler employees and the rest contractors,  Mike Palese , a
Chrysler spokesman, said in an e-mail. Most of the hires will be
engineers and most will be based in the Detroit area, he said.  Other companies hiring engineers in the state include
Continental AG, the world’s biggest maker of car instruments and
display systems, which is hiring 40 engineers in the Detroit
area, and TRW Automotive Holdings Corp., the largest supplier of
vehicle-safety equipment, which is hiring about 85 engineers.  ‘In-Demand Jobs’  Competition for the engineers has intensified in recent
months,  John Wilkerson , a TRW spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “These are in-demand jobs and there is lots of competition
to find people with experience in some of the specialties we are
looking for,” he said.  Tata Technologies, a Novi, Michigan-based unit of Mumbai-
based Tata Motors Ltd., is hiring about 400 automotive
engineering consultants in the U.S. Mike Zwiezynski, a 54-year-
old electrical engineer who took an early retirement from GM
last year, came to Tata’s job fair at a Southfield, Michigan
hotel last week.  While he said he’s heard about the staffing plans, he said
he expects the actual hiring to be gradual. In the meantime, he
said he’s seeing more job openings and, at the job fair, at
least one other potential indicator of job growth.  “There are a lot fewer people at this one than the others
I’ve been to in the last year or so,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Clothier  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 