-- Aviva Says Buying Spain’s Debt ‘Smart’ Ahead of EU Crisis Talks
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-12-13T01:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/aviva-says-buying-spain-s-debt-smart-before-european-union-crisis-talks.html
Surging yields shouldn’t deter
investors from buying Spanish bonds as European Union efforts to
tackle the region’s sovereign debt crisis will make a default
unlikely, according to  Aviva Investors .  “If you buy the thesis that these bonds will be paid back
in full, then I think spreads have widened out sufficiently,”
said  Paul Abberley , chief executive officer of the London unit
of British insurer  Aviva Plc ’s investment-fund arm. “In 12
months’ time investing could look quite smart.”  Spanish bonds fell for a fifth straight day Dec. 10 after
EU officials disagreed on extra funding to ease a financial
crisis that’s already pushed Ireland and Greece to seek
international bailouts. The yield on Spanish 10-year bonds rose
13 basis points to 5.44 percent as of 5:25 p.m. in London, up
from 5.08 percent Dec. 3. Spain is due to sell notes maturing in
2020 and 2025 on Dec. 16.  European leaders meet Dec. 16-17 in Brussels where they’ll
discuss a proposal to sell joint euro-region debt. While Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley economists say the proposal
may stabilize the region’s bond markets, opponents including
Germany and France say it will raise borrowing costs for
stronger nations.  “There’s such strong political commitment to the euro that
regulators will do anything to keep it going,” Abberley said in
an interview last week in Singapore. “There’ll be a more
elegant way of describing it, but one way or the other, money
will be printed so you’ll be paid out in full on this debt in
euros.”  Currency Risk  There is a risk, however, that while Spain will repay its
debt, “those euros will be worth less” if the currency
continues to fall, Abberley said. The euro has declined 8
percent against the dollar since January.  The cost of contracts insuring Spanish government debt
against a default rose to the highest in at least six years on
Nov. 30 on speculation Spain may be the next to seek aid.
European governments handed Ireland an 85 billion euro ($112
billion) bailout on Nov. 28.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments increased 7.4 basis points to
196.1 basis points on Dec. 10, the highest since Nov. 30, prices
from data provider CMA show. The index, which investors use to
hedge against losses on debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbed 49.25 basis points in November in the biggest monthly
increase this year.  London-based Aviva Investors, with 19 offices in 13
countries, manages about $371 billion globally, according to its
website. Aviva Plc is the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  