-- Tax-Compromise Test Vote Scheduled in Senate Amid Criticism by Democrats
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2010-12-13T13:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/tax-compromise-test-vote-scheduled-in-senate-amid-criticism-by-democrats.html
The U.S. Senate is set to hold a
procedural vote today on the $858 billion tax-cut package that
President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans announced
last week.  The vote, which requires 60 senators’ approval, would clear
the way for final passage of the bill on Tuesday.  The bill would extend all existing income tax rates for two
more years beyond their scheduled Dec. 31 expiration. It also
would extend expanded  unemployment  insurance benefits through
2011, cut payroll taxes by 2 percentage points, and set the
estate tax with a $5 million per-person exemption and 35 percent
top rate.  The biggest hurdle may come in the House, where Democratic
leaders are discussing potential changes to the bill, which
could threaten the compromise between Obama and Republicans.  “A deal is a deal. We have an agreement and that ought to
be honored and it should pass soon so we don’t create this
volatility in the economy,” Representative  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin Republican, told Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt .”  House members won’t return to Washington until Tuesday
evening, and House leaders haven’t said whether they will allow
the bill to reach the floor in its current form or whether they
will seek changes.  Changes Sought  Democratic leaders have been particularly critical of the
estate tax provisions in the agreement. They would prefer a 45
percent top rate and a $3.5 million exemption per person. They
also wanted to limit the extension of lower income tax rates to
incomes below $200,000 for individuals and below $250,000 for
married couples.  “We just can’t afford that kind of giveaway to the very
wealthiest among us,” said Senate Budget Chairman  Kent Conrad ,
a North Dakota Democrat who appeared with Ryan on Bloomberg
Television.  Conrad, who has endorsed the agreement between Obama and
Republicans, said he expects the bill to pass. Republicans,
including Senator  Jon Kyl  of Arizona, have said changes to the
estate tax provisions would threaten the entire bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Rubin  in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  