-- Banning Big Wall Street Bonus Favored by 70% of Americans in National Poll
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-12-13T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/banning-big-wall-street-bonus-favored-by-70-of-americans-in-national-poll.html
More than 70 percent of Americans
say big bonuses should be banned this year at Wall Street firms
that took taxpayer bailouts, a Bloomberg National Poll shows.  An additional one in six favors slapping a 50 percent tax
on bonuses exceeding $400,000. Just 7 percent of U.S. adults say
bonuses are an appropriate incentive reflecting Wall Street’s
return to financial health.  A large majority also want to tax Wall Street profits to
reduce the federal  budget deficit . A levy on financial services
firms is the top choice among more than a dozen deficit-cutting
options presented to respondents.  With  U.S. unemployment  at 9.8 percent, resentment of
bonuses and banking profits unites Americans across political,
gender, age and income groups. Among Republicans, who generally
are skeptical of business regulation, 76 percent support a
government ban on big bonuses to bailout recipients, that’s
higher than backing among Democrats or independents.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon  got a bonus package for 2009 valued at $17 million
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s Chairman and CEO  Lloyd Blankfein 
received a $9 million all-stock bonus for last year, down from
his Wall Street record $67.9 million in 2007.  “The American people bailed them out and immediately they
went and paid their employees very large bonuses,” says poll
respondent Michael Robertson, 43, of Wayne, Michigan. “I don’t
believe they should have a bonus at all for a while.”  ‘Bitter About Wall Street’  Robertson lost his job in retail management in the auto
parts industry three years ago when his company cut workers and
is now in school studying computer electronics. “Of course I’m
bitter about this Wall Street thing,” he says.  Cash bonuses to securities industry employees in New York
City grew 17 percent, to $20.3 billion, for work in 2009,
according to estimates in a report last month by the  New York
State Comptroller’s office . While the cash bonus pool for 2010
will probably be smaller, the average bonus may be bigger
because after job losses the money will be divided among fewer
employees, the report said.  As Wall Street managers prepare year-end compensation
decisions,  Morgan Stanley  told employees at the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets to expect investment banking bonuses to
decline 10 percent to 30 percent. The  Council of Institutional
Investors  last month said that, among the six largest U.S.
banks, only New York-based Morgan Stanley and San Francisco-
based  Wells Fargo & Co.  have changed compensation practices to
institute bonuses based on long-term performance.  Webb Proposal  U.S. Senator  Jim Webb , a Virginia Democrat, this year
proposed a 50 percent tax on bonuses of more than $400,000,
though it failed to win backing from Congress or the Obama
administration.  The $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program, enacted in
October 2008 to prevent a collapse of the U.S. financial system,
provided money to shore up financial-services companies,
including  American International Group Inc.  Some recipients,
such as Goldman Sachs and  Bank of America Corp. , have since
repaid the money.  The Bloomberg poll of 1,000 adults 18 and older reflects
continuing public animosity toward the bailouts, which became a
potent political issue that helped defeat dozens of lawmakers
from both parties in congressional elections this year.  The TARP program’s unpopularity lingers even after a
Congressional Budget Office report last month said the program
would wind up costing taxpayers about $25 billion, far less than
initial estimates.  Bailing Out Treasury  Seven of 10 Americans say it’s Wall Street’s turn to help
bail out the government Treasury, supporting a tax on Wall
Street profits as a way to reduce the $1.3 trillion deficit. By
comparison, 43 percent favor a freeze on spending for items like
education and medical research, 33 percent would cut farm
subsidies, 25 percent back a new tax on gasoline, and 15 percent
would reduce benefits in the  Medicare  health insurance program
for the elderly.  “I know that some of the tax I pay when I buy gas for my
car, and on my income, was somewhere written into a check to
keep these companies from imploding,” says poll respondent
Steven Previll, 33, a maintenance worker from Harrisonburg,
Virginia. “There’s an amazing amount of money being made on
Wall Street. It would be cool if we could take some of that
money and reinvest it in the country.”  The poll by Des Moines, Iowa-based  Selzer & Co . was
conducted Dec. 4-7. It has a margin of error of plus or minus
3.1 percentage points.  Fourth-Largest Profit  Bolstered by bailouts, Wall Street earned $61.4 billion in
2009, almost three times more than in 2006, according to the  New
York State Comptroller’s office  report. This year’s profit,
projected at $19 billion, still would be the industry’s fourth
largest, the report said.  The average securities industry wage in New York City fell
more than 20 percent last year, to $311,000. That was still five
times the average pay for other private-sector jobs in the
largest U.S. city, the comptroller’s office said.  Compensation expenses at  Goldman Sachs  in the first nine
months were 21 percent less than a year earlier, while the pay
pool at JPMorgan’s investment bank was down 10 percent. The New
York-based firms cut their compensation pools in the fourth
quarter last year as banks faced pressure from lawmakers and
shareholders over pay packages.  “We need to come down to a more equal level of people,”
said Melba Northern, 62, of Red Bluff, California, who was laid
off from her job as a nursing assistant. “The finance companies
got bailed out and then they got bonuses. But the people who had
 loans  through them still have to pay them back, and they are
struggling to keep a roof over their head. No one is bailing
them out.”  Compensation Crackdown  Congress, which in 2009 considered proposals designed to
claw back bonus money paid out to executives, stopped short of a
direct crackdown on Wall Street compensation practices.  President  Barack Obama , in July, signed into law a sweeping
financial-regulation package that aimed to give shareholders
more of a say in the compensation of bank executives.  In Europe, bankers will face limits on cash payouts and the
size of their bonus relative to salary from the start of next
year, as European Union regulators this month approved laws to
curb incentives for excessive risk-taking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 