-- Barclays, JPMorgan Broke S. Korea Derivatives Rules
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-12-14T06:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/barclays-jpmorgan-violated-south-korean-rules-on-derivatives.html
Barclays Plc  and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. ’s South Korea units broke local banking rules by selling
inappropriate currency derivatives, the Financial Supervisory
Service said.  The regulator sent an institutional warning to Barclays and
cautioned an individual at JPMorgan after regular examinations,
it said in an e-mailed statement.  Barclays sold currency derivatives to three  exporters  that
harmed the companies last year, the regulator said. JPMorgan
sold derivatives in 2007 that crimped the ability of six
companies to effectively hedge against currency volatility, it
said.  “Korean regulators are going way back to before the crisis
to penalize the banks,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , senior
economist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “The question is,
were they too aggressive, were they trying to protect the local
companies from a loss on the derivatives exposure that was
willingly taken by them, or did the banks break some obvious
rules?”  Bellerina Yeo, a spokeswoman for Barclays in Singapore,
said in an e-mail that the company is unable to comment. Kang So
Young, the South Korea spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment.  Currency Volatility  Nations from China to South Africa are striving to limit
currency volatility as near-zero borrowing costs in advanced
economies spur demand for higher-yielding assets in emerging-
markets. Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said today the
nation needs to use “macro-prudential” measures to reduce the
volatility of the won because sharp fluctuations are an obstacle
to financial-market stability.  South Korean regulators began an audit of how banks handle
foreign-currency derivatives on Oct. 19 to tackle speculation.
Financial Supervisory Service Governor  Kim Jong Chang  said last
month the country may tighten curbs on bank trades of the
derivatives and penalize institutions acting improperly.  The National Assembly is also moving closer to reviving
taxes on foreign investors’ bond holdings. The parliament’s
finance committee on Dec. 7 supported a bill that would tax
interest income from treasury and central bank bonds by as much
as 14 percent and put a 20 percent levy on capital gains from
their sale.  The Financial Supervisory Service didn’t identify the
companies it said were hurt by the derivatives from Barclays and
JPMorgan. Banks in South Korea are required to propose
appropriate derivatives instruments to their clients after
taking full account of the company’s financial position, the
report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 