-- Batista's MMX to Invest $2.9 Billion in Brazil Mines to Meet Asian Demand
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2010-12-13T16:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/batista-s-mmx-will-invest-2-9-billion-in-brazil-to-expand-iron-ore-units.html
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA , the
iron-ore miner controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ,
plans to invest 5 billion reais ($2.9 billion) to expand mines
in Brazil as Asian demand for raw materials increases.  The Rio de Janeiro-based company’s board approved 3.5
billion reais of investment at the Serra Azul project, including
a plant to process as much as 24 million metric tons of ore a
year, MMX said today in a statement. MMX also plans to spend 1.5
billion reais at its 10 million-ton-a-year Bom Sucesso project.
Both projects are in Brazil’s southeastern Minas Gerais state.  Batista is tapping iron-ore, coal and oil deposits in
Brazil to supply increasing demand for minerals and energy in
China and other expanding Asian economies. China’s iron ore
imports rose 26 percent last month to the second-highest this
year as steelmakers restocked on expectations of higher prices.  The planned increase in production will “significantly”
reduce costs per ton at Serra Azul, MMX Chief Executive Officer
 Roger Downey  said today on a conference call with analysts.  “They need to invest in Serra Azul to expand production
and meet supply contracts with Chinese and South Korean
partners,”  Pedro Galdi , an equity analyst with SLW Corretora de
Valores in Sao Paulo, said today in a telephone interview.  MMX fell 2.4 percent to 11.18 reais in Sao Paulo trading at
11:05 a.m New York time. It earlier  climbed  as much as 2.5
percent, the most since Dec. 1.  PortX Offer  Last week MMX offered to pay as much as $2.24 billion to
buy  PortX Operacoes Portuarias SA , a company that is also
controlled by Batista and runs the Sudeste mining port on the
coast of Rio de Janeiro state.  The iron-ore producer will seek to raise $1.4 billion in
loans from commercial and development banks including Brazil’s
government-owned BNDES development bank to finance the
expansion, according to the statement.  “What we’re really working on is the most competitive
offer,” Downey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Millard  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 Pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  