-- Bean Says U.K. Inflation Strength Raises Risk of Higher Price Expectations
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-13T13:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/bean-says-u-k-inflation-strength-raises-risk-of-higher-price-expectations.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor
 Charles Bean  said the strength of inflation has increased the
risk to price expectations and there may also be less spare
capacity in the economy than previously assumed.  “Given the unexpected strength of inflation in recent
months, this risk has probably increased of late,” Bean said in
a speech at an event organized by Market News International in
London today. “We shall be watching these indicators, and their
impact on wages and prices, like proverbial hawks.”  Policy makers have split three ways on whether to focus on
curbing an inflation rate that has exceeded the government’s 3
percent upper limit for eight months, or the risks to growth
from the government’s planned spending cuts. The Monetary Policy
Committee last week left the  emergency bond -purchase plan
unchanged at 200 billion pounds ($315 billion).  There are still risks “to both sides” of the economic
outlook, Bean said in answer to questions, adding that an
“unhappy” outcome to the euro-area crisis may yet trigger an
increase in so-called quantitative easing.  “It is certainly possible we may want to undertake a
second round of QE if the outlook for  U.K. growth  and inflation
prospects is slowing,” he said.  ‘Highly Uncertain’  The outlook for U.K. growth still “remains highly
uncertain,” Bean said. “The important thing for us is whether
an intensification of the difficulties in the euro-area
periphery could also derail the recovery here.”  Bean noted that private-sector demand and exports are
showing signs of picking up and that overseas sales may continue
to strengthen because of the weakness of the pound.  “As 2010 draws to a close, the good news, then, is that
the recovery, here and more widely, has remained on track,”
Bean said. Moreover, the high rate of inflation “could indicate
that the margin of spare capacity is not as large as the
collapse in activity might suggest,” he added.  Bean said that the economic recovery is showing signs of
persisting in the current quarter.  “If all goes to plan, however, and private final demand
continues to pick up the baton as the fiscal consolidation
proceeds, then the margin of spare capacity will shrink and it
will at some juncture become appropriate to begin withdrawing
the current extraordinary degree of  monetary stimulus ,” he
said. “When that point comes, the MPC will aim to do so in a
timely, but measured, fashion.”  Bean also said that the change in longer-term inflation
expectations has been “relatively modest.”  “Measures of inflation expectation in the short-term in
the next year have moved up,” he said in answer to questions.
“What we would be more concerned about would be a rise in
longer-term inflation expectations. So far the move in those
longer-term inflation expectations has been modest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  