-- Berlusconi Woos Moderates Before Confidence Vote, Offers Government Posts
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-12-13T12:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/berlusconi-woos-moderates-before-confidence-vote-offers-government-posts.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said he would yield to calls by former allies to add
them to his government if he keeps power in confidence votes
tomorrow, threatening a rift with his current partner as early
elections loom.  In an “appeal to all the moderates” as debate opened in
Rome today on his political fate, Berlusconi told senators he
may “enlarge the government majority” and “reinforce the
government team.” A loss would have to result in elections, he
said. Berlusconi’s main ally, Northern League leader  Umberto Bossi , rejected broadening the coalition.  Berlusconi’s grip on power has been slipping since July
when former ally  Gianfranco Fini , speaker of the Chamber of
Deputies, broke ranks with the premier. Corriere della Sera
newspaper reported today that the vote hangs on seven members of
the 630-seat lower house, including  Federica Mogherini , 37, who
is due to deliver her first child today.  “If I go into labor, there’s nothing I can do,”
Mogherini, a Berlusconi opponent, was quoted as telling  la
Repubblica  newspaper.  Italy needs “continuity” to protect it from financial-
market turmoil, the 74-year-old Berlusconi said. He claimed
credit for shielding Italy, saddled with Europe’s biggest public
debt in nominal terms, from “speculative attacks” during the
sovereign-debt crisis.  Risk Premium  The  yield premium  investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
bonds over similar-maturing German bunds widened 3 basis points
to 163 basis points as of 1:15 p.m. today in Rome. It surged to
a euro-era record of 212 basis points on Nov. 30 amid investor
concern that other countries may follow Greece and Ireland in
seeking a bailout.  The motions of no-confidence introduced by opposition
parties were signed by 317 lawmakers, a majority. Still, some in
the opposition have since said that they may support Berlusconi.
Among them were two members of the Italian Values Party, whose
leader  Antonio Di Pietro  called for Rome prosecutors to
investigate vote buying. Berlusconi has denied any wrongdoing.  In a last-gasp bid to reach a deal with the premier, 16
parliamentarians from both the ruling People of Freedom Party
and Fini’s Future and Liberty for Italy party sent Berlusconi a
letter on Dec. 11, urging him to join with opposition centrist
forces and present a renewed program. Berlusconi, Italy’s
richest man, will consider those requests, including changes to
the electoral law, he replied in a statement.  Fini’s Demand  Fini, in an interview yesterday with state-television Rai,
repeated his call for Berlusconi to step down and accused his
former ally of wanting to cling to power in order to retain
immunity from prosecution in pending corruption trials under a
law passed by his government. The law prevents the premier from
having to appear in court because of his government duties.  Fini also said he would consider supporting a new
government led by Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti . A loss by
Berlusconi in either of tomorrow’s votes may lead to early
voting or wrangling to form a new coalition.  Berlusconi told the Senate today that the choice of the
“prime minister is not under discussion” and that Italians
want a change of government only through early elections. “If
the government didn’t act well and has to leave, it must be up
to the people to decide,” he said.  Italy won’t need additional deficit-cutting measures next
year after lawmakers approved the 2011 budget bill, European
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on
Dec. 10. The budget plan “is in line with targets and the goal
to have a deficit below 3 percent” of  gross domestic product  by
2012, Rehn told reporters in Rome.  Budget Deficit  Italy’s  budget deficit  will be 4.3 percent of GDP next
year, worse than the government’s 3.9 percent forecast, the
Brussels-based commission estimated on Nov. 29. Italy’s upper
house of parliament on Dec. 7 passed the 2011 budget bill, which
includes cuts totaling 11.6 billion euros ($16 billion) to trim
the deficit.  The country’s recovery from its fourth recession in seven
years slowed in third quarter as GDP rose 0.3 percent from the
previous three months, when it climbed 0.5 percent, Rome-based
statistics institute  Istat  said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  