-- Berlusconi Wins Senate Vote, Setting Up Lower House Showdown
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-12-14T12:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/berlusconi-may-survive-confidence-vote-loss-as-italy-opposition-splinters.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  won a confidence vote in the Senate, setting up a
showdown over his political fate in the lower house as the
threat of violent protests forced authorities to block access to
central Rome.  Berlusconi triumphed in the upper house, where he has a
majority, by 162 to 135, Senate Speaker  Renato Schifani  said.
The survival of the government will be decided by the lower
house, where final results may come by 2 p.m.  The 74-year-old premier may survive a loss in the lower
house and emerge as prime minister of a reconstituted coalition.
The opposition is too splintered and there are no possible
challengers among the 74-year-old  media tycoon’s  allies,
according to  Richard Bellamy , a political-science professor at
University College London.  “He survived many times and I doubt that, even if he loses
in the  lower house , that will be his end,” Bellamy said in a
telephone interview. “The challenge is whether there is a
credible coalition opposition, as Berlusconi has always
benefited from the inability of the center left to win.”  The fall of his government wouldn’t necessarily lead to
elections. President  Giorgio Napolitano  would first consult the
parties to see if another government may be formed with or
without Berlusconi as its head, before calling for a vote. Even
with his popularity at record low levels, polls indicate that
Berlusconi’s coalition might win re-election.  Vote estimates indicate the thinnest possible margins.
Newspaper La Repubblica estimated the Chamber of Deputies, the
630-seat lower house, bringing down Berlusconi by 313 to 312.
Corriere della Sera reckons the incumbent winning by 313 to 312.  Loss Predicted  Berlusconi will probably lose the ballot by two votes,
prompting as many as 60 of his lawmakers to defect and try to
form a new government without him, predicted  Luca Barbareschi , a
former ally of the prime minister.  “There are those 50, 60 lawmakers from Berlusconi’s party
who, once Berlusconi has fallen, will betray him in a second,”
Barbareschi, who quit the premier’s People of Liberty party in
July to join with rebel lawmakers, said in an interview today.  Students threw bottles and smoke bombs at police outside of
Berlusconi’s Rome residence and some manage to get through one
of the blockades protecting Palazzo Grazioli. At least one
student was injured, news agency Ansa reported.  While a defeat today may weaken Berlusconi by forcing him
to bring more parties into his Cabinet, extending his leadership
avoids a vacuum that would rattle markets. Berlusconi said
yesterday that Italy, the euro region’s most indebted country in
nominal terms, needed “continuity” to shield it from
financial-market turmoil amid the European debt crisis.  ‘Political Risk’  “There isn’t the perception that political risk in the
short or medium term is going to harm the public accounts,”
 Maria Cannata , the Finance Ministry’s director of public debt,
said in a Dec. 9 interview. “Clearly, if there is a longer
crisis, like we have seen in Belgium, something more than six
months or a year, that could impede the government from taking
any needed initiatives to support the economy.”  The  yield premium  investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
bonds over similar-maturing German bunds widened 4 basis points
to 165 basis points at 1:25 p.m. It more than doubled this year
and surged to a euro-era record of 212 basis points on Nov. 30.  Berlusconi’s grip on power has been slipping since July
when former ally  Gianfranco Fini , the speaker of the Chamber of
Deputies, broke ranks with the premier and later formed the
 Future and Liberty Party .  Appeal to ‘Moderates’  Premier for almost eight of the past 10 years, the
billionaire yesterday sought to woo “all the moderates” as
debate on the confidence motion began. He said he would yield to
calls by Fini’s party and the  Union for Center , led by another
former ally, to “enlarge the government majority.”  Fini, who criticized Berlusconi for stifling debate in the
ruling party, further distanced himself from the premier amid a
series of sex-related scandals. In a Dec. 12 interview with
state-television Rai, Fini repeated his call for Berlusconi to
step down, accusing him of clinging to power to retain immunity
from prosecution in pending corruption trials. Fini also said he
would consider supporting a new government led by Finance
Minister  Giulio Tremonti .  “Tremonti is no fool, he won’t accept governing in such a
situation,” Berlusconi’s main partner, Northern League leader
 Umberto Bossi , told reporters in Rome yesterday. “Only those
who are as crazy as Berlusconi could do it.”  Meantime, Bossi refused the premier’s proposal to enlarge
the government majority.  “With his money, media power, and personal influence,
Berlusconi has been able to hold his coalition together,” said
 Grant Amyot , professor of politics at Queen’s University, Canada
and co-author in 2006 of “The End of the Berlusconi Era?”  “As Fini’s split has revealed, that era is already over,
but it doesn’t seem that there is anyone who can take over his
role on the right,” Amyot said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  