-- Madoff Won't Attend Son's Funeral to Protect Family's Privacy, Lawyer Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-12-13T22:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/bernard-madoff-won-t-leave-prison-to-attend-his-son-s-funeral-lawyer-says.html
Convicted swindler  Bernard Madoff ,
who is serving a 150-year prison term at a prison in Butner,
North Carolina, won’t be attending the funeral of his elder son,
 Mark Madoff , who committed suicide Dec. 11, a lawyer said.  Ira Sorkin , Bernard Madoff’s defense attorney, said his
client had decided not to attend the funeral “out of
consideration” for his daughter-in-law and his grandchildren’s
privacy.  “He will be conducting a private service in the facility
where he’s incarcerated,” Sorkin said in a telephone interview.  Mark Madoff, 46, committed suicide two years to the day
after his father’s arrest.  He was found at 7:30 a.m. Dec. 11, hanging from a dog leash
attached to a pipe in the living room of his Manhattan
apartment, while his 2-year-old son slept in an adjoining
bedroom, said  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the New York City
Police Department.  “There are a variety of ways an inmate can go to a
funeral,” said  Traci Billingsley , a spokeswoman for the U.S.
Bureau of Prisons. “Those decisions are made on a case-by-case
basis. An inmate can attend a funeral on an escorted or
unescorted visit.”  Billingsley said she couldn’t discuss what the Bureau’s
determination was in Madoff’s case.  Sorkin declined comment when asked whether Madoff met
criterion set by the U.S. Bureau of Prisons for release for a
funeral.  Prison Guidebook  Furloughs from federal prison can be granted for
“extraordinary” circumstances, including funerals for
immediate family, according to Federal Prison Guidebook by  Alan Ellis , a criminal defense lawyer, and J. Michael Henderson, a
former employee of the U.S. Bureau of Prisons.  Such furloughs require minimum-security status and a
“clear” conduct record, according to the guide.  A Butner inmate, with less than two years to serve and with
no history of violence, may apply for temporary release to
attend a funeral, according to the Butner facility’s inmate
handbook.  Other inmates may apply for funeral visits accompanied by
one or two correctional staff. All expenses, after the first
eight hours, must be paid for by the inmate.  Visits can be denied where “security concerns about the
individual inmate outweigh the need to authorize the visit,”
according to the handbook.  According to the Bureau of Prisons website, the prison
where Madoff is incarcerated, FCI Butner Medium in North
Carolina, is a medium-security facility.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 