-- Best Books for Kids Into Lego Robots, Baseball, Arty Lizards, Human Pets
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2010-12-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/best-books-for-kids-into-lego-robots-baseball-arty-lizards-human-pets.html
Jackie Robinson, a despondent bird
and a boy who wants to be a television chef star in some of the
season’s stand-out picture books for children.  Artistic Lizards  “ Art & Max ” by David Wiesner (Clarion, $17.99). Wiesner
is known for wonderfully imaginative wordless books, such as the
Caldecott winners “ Tuesday ” and “ Flotsam ” and my own
favorite, “ Sector 7 ,” in which a boy is whisked off the Empire
State Building to a cloud-making factory. His new book has
words, making it easier for a read-aloud, and the art is as
strikingly detailed as ever.  Art is a serious artist who just happens to be a lizard.
His friend Max wants to paint, too -- which Art thinks is
ridiculous. Any kid who ever looked at a Jackson Pollock
painting and said, “I can do that!” will enjoy this colorful
journey through the history of art.  Bear Loves Boy  “ Children Make Terrible Pets ,” by Peter Brown (Little,
Brown, $16.99). When Lucy, a frisky bear in a pink tutu, finds
an adorable little boy in the forest, she begs her mother to let
her keep him.  “Lucille Beatrice Bear!” Mama Bear scolds. “Don’t you
know that children make terrible pets?”  Like mothers everywhere, though, she soon gives in. It will
make kids laugh to see an animal dragging a human around,
dressing him up for tea parties, carrying him in a pouch like a
kangaroo. The multi-media artwork, including hand-lettered
dialogue on construction-paper word balloons, gives the book a
solid, old-fashioned feel.  Chef in Training  “ Cooking With Henry and Elliebelly ,” by Carolyn
Parkhurst. Illustrated by Dan Yaccarino (Feiwel & Friends,
$16.99). Henry is a 5-year-old  Mario Batali  in training,
pretending to have a cooking show with his little sister. As he
patiently tries to demonstrate raspberry-marshmallow-peanut
butter waffles with barbecued banana bacon, Elliebelly insists
they wear pirate hats and tries to insert her doll into the
proceedings.  The story is told entirely in dialogue, Henry’s in small
black type and Ellie’s in BIG RED LETTERS that match her wild
hair. Their mother remains in the wings, offering typically
unhelpful Mom-like comments.  Lego Robots  “ Cool Robots ,” by Sean Kenney (Holt, $12.99). The Lego
fanatic on your gift list will love this book, which features
directions for building a variety of robots. Pictures of
futuristic houses, hovercrafts and a big circular space station
provide additional inspiration.  Welcome to Brooklyn  “ Jackie’s Gift ,” by Sharon Robinson. Illustrated by E.B.
Lewis (Viking, $16.99). When baseball legend  Jackie Robinson 
moved to Brooklyn in 1948, not everyone was happy to have a
black family on the block. Young Steve Satlow, a Dodgers fan,
welcomed the Robinsons with a bowl of cherries, and was soon
friendly enough to help decorate their Christmas tree. When
Robinson heard the Satlows didn’t have a tree of their own, he
decided to return their kindness by bringing one over as a gift
-- not realizing they were Jewish and didn’t celebrate
Christmas.  This lovely book is written by Robinson’s daughter, Sharon,
who wasn’t born at the time but says she grew up hearing the
story.  A Book With Panache  “ 13 Words ” by Lemony Snicket and Maira Kalman (Harper,
$16.99). What do “convertible,” “panache,” “mezzo-soprano”
and “haberdashery” have in common? They’re four of the 13
words the ever-droll Snicket combines in this tale of a
despondent bird and her friend the dog’s attempts to cheer her
up. Kalman’s candy-colored pictures add to the surreal fun.  Mother Goose  “ Tomie dePaola’s Mother Goose ,” by Tomie dePaola (Putnam,
$25.99). It’s surprisingly hard to find a perfect book of Mother
Goose rhymes; this might be it. DePaola includes all the
familiar ditties along with discoveries like “Three wise men of
Gotham/ Went to sea in a bowl/ If the bowl had been stronger/ My
story would have been longer.”  The illustrations are simple and colorful, surrounded by
lots of white space, and the book is laid out beautifully: full-
page poems alternate with shorter ones that go together in funny
ways -- “Hickory Dickory Dock/ The mouse ran up the clock” is
paired with rhymes about rats and cats.  To buy these books in North America, click  here .  ( Laurie Muchnick  is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg  News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Laurie Muchnick in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 