-- Year’s Best Wines Offer $2,500 White, Czar’s Muscat: Elin McCoy
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2010-12-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/best-wines-of-2010-offer-2-500-white-burgundy-czar-s-muscat-elin-mccoy.html
In 2010, I once again sipped
thousands of wines looking for the few worth recommending. I’m
happy to report I found more compelling high quality wines than
ever -- especially from the 2009 vintage in Germany, Beaujolais,
Bordeaux, and Burgundy -- among a sea of plonk and expensive
disappointments. Here are my 10 picks of the year.  2007 Fia Nobile Cerasuolo di Vittoria ($20)  My bargain of the year is this lively red from Sicily,
discovered at New York’s Convivio restaurant. Charged with
finding one wine for dishes with clashing tastes, the sommelier
offered his secret weapon -- the frappato and nero d’avola grape
blend known as Cerasuolo di Vittoria. The Fia Nobile version, my
introduction to the category, brims with crushed cherry aromas
and light but rich texture.  1939 Massandra Gurzuf Rose Muscat ($525 at auction)  In the Ukraine’s Crimea, the  Massandra winery  on the Black
Sea once produced sweet dessert muscats for the czars. Its
collection of bottles, stored in 21 underground tunnels,
survived the Russian Revolution and some were served to
Churchill, Stalin, and Roosevelt at the Yalta Conference.
History was in my mind as I sipped the amazingly fresh-tasting
1939, with aromas and flavors of rose petals and spicy brown
sugar, at a Zachys’ auction before 38 lots of old vintages went
on the block.  1980 Soldera Case Basse Brunello Riserva ($350)  One of the maestros of Brunello,  Gianfranco Soldera 
produces cult reds revered by tradition lovers. During a long
Italian dinner, my generous host brought out this 30-year-old
vintage. I was blown away by its cedar-and-chestnut fragrance,
toffee flavors and luminous character that sang in the glass.  2003 Brokenwood ILR Reserve Semillon ($40)  I don’t understand why Australia’s Hunter Valley semillons
remain stuck in the world’s underappreciated-great-wines
category. While judging semillons at the annual Critics
Challenge wine competition in San Diego, this flagship white
from the  Brokenwood  estate won my top marks for its intense lime
and honey aromas and toasty complexity. The wine’s magic depends
on aging, not oak or alcohol, and it will only get better.  2004 Schloss Gobelsburg Heiligenstein Riesling ($40)  Austria is the land of gruner veltliner, but dozens of
rieslings from top vineyards impressed me even more during a
tasting tour along the Danube. Who says terroir is a myth? In
sampling six vintages (1976 to 2009) made by this 900-year-old
winery in the Kamptal from grapes grown in the steep grand cru
 Heiligenstein vineyard , I was struck by their fruit-and-mineral
precision. My pick? The exciting, succulent 2004, with its long
complex finish.  2002 Clos du Val Cabernet Sauvignon Stags Leap District Oak
Vineyard ($70)  When I retrieved this bottle from my cellar for a birthday
dinner, I thought it would be good, but it was much grander.
Since the 1970s,  Clos du Val  has been creating splendid Napa
Valley cabernets that show all the ripeness you could want
without over-the-top, palate-bruising extraction and alcohol.
This elegant wine echoes top-class Bordeaux while remaining
completely Napa.  1989 Argyros Estate Vinsanto ($100, 500ml)  I traveled to the Greek island of Santorini to taste its
dramatic dry whites, but fell in love with its luscious sweet
vinsantos made from the same grapes, dried in the sun to
concentrate their sweetness. This caramel-colored example,
barrel-aged in a  300-year-old winery , was the stunner. Its
intense dried fruit and roasted coffee aromas and fig and toffee
flavors make it my new ideal match with chocolate -- or, for
this season, plum pudding.  NV Jacques Selosse Initiale Brut Champagne ($140)  Wild man visionary Anselme Selosse makes concentrated,
highly original, terroir champagnes. The bad news is that they
are extremely hard to find. Which is why I eagerly downed
several glasses of his brut cuvee Initiale offered before a
grand dinner in New York. This all-chardonnay blend of three
vintages from three grand cru villages is rich and creamy, with
amazing energy and complexity.  2007 Domaine de la Romanee-Conti Montrachet ($2,500)  This year I happily braved a snowstorm to get to the annual
release tasting of Domaine de la Romanee-Conti’s great
Burgundies. The 2007 vintage is not a top one, but the DRC’s
ultra-elegant rare white, made in tiny quantities from the most
famous chardonnay site in the world, has a purity and complex
layered citrus-and-stone character that makes it extraordinary.
Worth it? Perfection is always pricy.  1989 Chateau Palmer ($350)  After sipping and spitting a barrel sample of the powerful
2009 Palmer during last spring’s Bordeaux en primeurs tastings,
I swallowed with pleasure the satiny, seductive 1989 with lunch
in  the chateau ’s elegant dining room. A star of the Margaux
appellation in that vintage, it’s all black fruit and silky
texture, perfect for drinking over the holidays -- and costs no
more than the still-in-barrel 2009, which won’t reach maturity
for 20 years.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:  Elin McCoy  at
 elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 