-- Billionaires Rival, Plot to Snare $5,000 Bottles of Haut-Brion
-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s   a n d   G u y   C o l l i n s
-- 2010-12-13T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/billionaires-rival-plot-to-snare-5-000-bottles-of-haut-brion.html
Fate bequeathed a delusional legacy
to the small French suburb of Pessac.  As the 1st century A.D. birthplace of Bordeaux wine,
Pessac’s Gunzian gravel soil over the millennia has attracted
holy men, scoundrels and a crowd of billionaires on a quest to
spend beyond $5,000 for a vintage bottle of Chateau Haut-Brion
Cru Classe de Graves Premier Grand Cru Classe Appellation
Pessac-Leognan Controlee Domaine de Clarence Dillon SA.  It’s an expensive mouthful.  “There’s not one explanation for how it happened,” says
Jean-Philippe Delmas, the “regisseur” or estate manager of one
of the world’s five rarest and most costly first-growth
investment wines. “In the end, it’s all up to Him,” Delmas
adds, pointing an index finger toward the heavens, as did his
regisseur father and grandfather before him.  It all began more than 2,000 years ago, when a group of
Bituriges Vivisci tribesmen scattered grape seeds a few miles
west of the Gironde River. That gesture has burgeoned into a
hyper-luxury, billion-dollar industry hinged on how the weather
affects the 400,000 vines that annually turn out between 10,000
and 11,000 cases of Haut-Brion.  Strolling through snow flurries to inspect his 124 acres of
spindled vines, Delmas, 41, considers the expense of maintaining
one of Bordeaux’s signature estates. “There are no rules on the
cost of making Haut-Brion,” he says.  Rare Whites  Still, the arithmetic remains precise: Each plant produces
50 centiliters or 1.05 pints of red. A further 6.5 acres
annually squeezes out what Delmas says is an even rarer and can
be more expensive 5,000 to 6,000 bottles of Haut-Brion white,
which sells between 251 euros ($331) and 3,049 euros a bottle,
depending on the vintage.  Delmas exclusively sells the wine that  Thomas Jefferson  in
1787 first imported to the U.S. to Bordeaux’s 70 registered wine
merchants at a 5 percent to 10 percent markup. Though Haut-Brion
prices trail first-growth investment rivals Lafite-Rothschild,
Mouton-Rothschild, Latour and Margaux in classic years such as
1982 and 2000, the brand outshines its competition in the 1945,
1959 and 1989 vintages.  The 1989, for instance, fetches an average merchant price
of $18,075 a case, according to the London-based wine exchange
Liv-ex. That’s about 50 percent more than a 1989 Lafite and more
than triple the prices asked for other first growths.  Hong Kong Sale  Off the investment floor, Christie’s International Plc in
London last November sold a case of 1959 Haut-Brion for $20,900.
A dozen of the chateau’s 1945 bottles in May pulled in $48,800
at an Acker Merrall & Condit sale in Hong Kong. The Liv-ex says
says the average current European broker price for a single
bottle of 1945 Haut-Brion is $5,027.  As for the street value, “billionaires don’t care about
money,” Delmas reckons.  To be sure, Haut-Brion never has been a bottle for the
bargain bin. Faded records in the Pessac City Hall indicate that
Lady Johanna Faure on Sept. 6, 1426, was the first to register
the cultivation of vines in Haut-Brion for the monks of Menuts
to commemorate the death of nobleman Johan d’Artiguemale.  On April 23, 1525, criminal-court clerk Jean de Pontac was
gifted the grape field as part of his dowry, more or less
creating the Haut-Brion brand. Owners since have included former
French Foreign Minister Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand, who sold
the estate to a banker, who then sold it to a stockbroker, who
sold it to another banker, who in 1935 sold it to New York
financier Clarence Dillon.  Pricey Pitcher  No wonder a “flagon” of Haut-Brion for centuries has cost
more than a milk cow. Indeed, the 17th-century English writer
 Jonathan Swift  noted in his diaries that he paid 7 shillings,
the price of a cow, for a pitcher of Haut-Brion. Philosopher
 John Locke  in 1677 visited the chateau for a taste and
pronounced the claret a rip-off.  “Thanks to the rich English, who sent orders that it was
to be got for them at any price,” is how the father of
liberalism described Haut-Brion’s market forces at work.  “I don’t know what to do about it,” Delmas rues. “We
have more investors than drinkers as clients and I’m sad about
that because we make our wine to be drunk. We have fewer and
fewer clients, but all of them are billionaires.”  Growth Markets  Just who those billionaires are might be easy to discover
if you can decipher the Chinese characters scribbled on page
after page in the leather-bound Haut-Brion guest book. “China
and Asia are the growth markets,” Delmas says. “That’s where
the money is.”  Delmas says that Haut-Brion posted its first profit in the
1970s. “The Dillon family kept giving us operating capital,”
he explains. “My grandfather fought to make as much wine as
possible. I fight to reduce the volume and have no excuses for
producing a bad vintage.”  Haut-Brion has had an undisputed place among the top 10 or
20 most expensive wines in the world for the past 350 years, yet
it tends to sell for less than rival top reds from the Medoc,
Saint-Emilion and Pomerol.  “Haut-Brion has definitely lagged behind vis-a-vis first
growths,” says William Grey, manager at the London-based  Wine
Investment Fund , which has 42 million pounds ($66 million) under
management. “It’s got a great track record. It would form part
of most people’s portfolios because of the quality of the wine.
It’s lagging at the moment, which could make it the best deal.”  Wall Street Link  Stephen Williams, founder of the  Antique Wine Company  who
commutes between London, France and Hong Kong selling top claret
to high-net-worth collectors, says Haut-Brion prices have been
held back by its lack of a strong reputation in China, coupled
with reduced demand in recent years from its traditional U.S.
customer base, a clientele that reflected the Dillon ownership
and Wall Street connection.  “The most sluggish wine market has been the U.S., so Haut-
Brion is going to be the first of the first growths to suffer
from that,” says Williams. “The wine has the quality, but the
brand doesn’t have the presence in China.”  That may represent an opportunity for investors looking for
alternatives to top-selling Bordeaux such as Chateau Lafite or
Latour, or cult wines like Le Pin. “From a value perspective,
Haut-Brion is definitely the wine to buy,” Williams says.
“It’s the same quality as the other first growths and half the
price.”  Private Stash  As for those billionaires, Delmas says they come from all
over and have no scruples about scoring any of the approximately
2,000 bottles of red and 1,000 bottles of white annually kept in
the estate stash. “I get calls every day,” says Delmas, who
declines to disclose the details. “Let’s say that billionaires
will do anything to try and acquire an extra case or bottle of
Haut-Brion. I am firm.”  Back in the vineyard, Delmas shakes his head, exhales a
plume of cold breath and smiles. “I’m also lucky,” he says.
“I can drink Haut-Brion.” The chateau’s 75 employees also get
to taste the good stuff. And to ensure the flow continues,
workers each year replace some 4,000 vines, each one taking 10
years to become part of the grand cru bloodline.  Luc Nicholas calls the creation of Haut-Brion a wedding.
He’s the 47-year-old cooper charged with the delicate ceremony
of “bousinage,” the burning of the barrel. Nicholas constructs
640 Haut-Brion barrels a year, all fashioned from planks of
French sessile oak cured for 3 years.  “The marriage of the wine and the oak is what makes Haut-
Brion,” Nicholas says, fixing traditional chestnut rims on his
barrels. “The inside of the cask must be burned to create the
proper taste. Not too much, not too little.”  To contact the writers on the story:
 Craig Copetas  in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net ;
 Guy Collins  in London at 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 