-- Blackstone Names Chae to Head Private Equity in Asia
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2010-12-13T21:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/blackstone-names-michael-chae-to-head-private-equity-in-asia.html
Blackstone Group LP  named  Michael Chae , a senior managing director in its private-equity group, to
head the firm’s buyout investing business in Asia.  Chae, 42, will also be responsible for marketing to clients
in the region while Ben Jenkins will continue to focus on deal-
making, Blackstone said today in a statement from New York.
Antony Leung remains Blackstone’s chairman for greater China and
will join the firm’s executive committee.  Private-equity firms are seeking to take advantage of
faster economic growth in Asia after investors’ appetite for
buyouts in the U.S. waned following the global financial crisis.
Blackstone in 2009 announced a partnership with the Shanghai
Pudong Government to raise a renminbi-denominated private-equity
fund.  “As our business continues to globalize, Asia is becoming
ever more central to the firm,”  Stephen Schwarzman ,
Blackstone’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.  Blackstone, based in New York, last year was the first
global private-equity firm to set up a fund with the Chinese
government, agreeing to a 5 billion yuan ($750 million) joint
venture to target investments in Shanghai and neighboring areas.  The firm has 157 employees in Asia, with offices in Hong
Kong, Beijing, Shanghai, Tokyo and Mumbai. Chae, who joined
Blackstone in 1997, led investments including Hilton Hotels and
Weather Channel Cos., the firm said.  Carlyle Group, the second-largest private-equity firm after
Blackstone, said in July it raised 2.4 billion yuan for a
Beijing fund, its second yuan-denominated fund. In a Dec. 3
interview, co-founder  William Conway  said he expects the
Washington-based firm to add at least one more to the pair it’s
already marketing.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Cristina Alesci  in New
York at   Calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 