-- Cocky Trader Gets Hooked on ‘Blind Date’ With Faux Parisienne
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-12-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/bond-trader-gets-hooked-on-blind-date-with-wry-canadian-ruffles-fiance.html
A svelte woman sits at a table alone
onstage at New York’s  Ars Nova  wearing a red dress, bright
lipstick and a clown nose. She introduces herself as Mimi from
Paris.  “It’s not TV, you can talk back” she says playfully to
the audience in a French accent.  “I’m wai-teeng for my blind date,” she says. (Pause).
“I’ve been wai-teeng for two hours.”  “Maybe I will come sho-peeng,” she adds as she makes her
way down the center aisle in search of a man to pluck.  So begins “ Blind Date ” a charming -- and for the
appointed guy, highly interactive -- show running through Dec.
20. Mimi’s played by Rebecca Northan, a 38-year-old native of
Calgary, Canada, who identifies herself on her business card as
an “actor, director, writer, smart ass.”  She harnesses all those skills as she improvises a nightly
90-minute date/performance piece with a male audience member of
her choosing.  Most performances (I saw two) feature small talk followed
by a drive to her apartment (fueled by sound effects and
imagination) followed by a dollop of awkward canoodling and
ending with an ingenious denouement of the relationship in full
flower.  Cocky Trader  The pleasure comes from Mimi’s humor, the real-life rapport
that emerges between the daters and, if the guy’s girlfriend or
wife is in the audience, how she reacts when Mimi checks in
during the proceedings. At a recent performance the fiancee of a
cocky bond trader said she was uncomfortable with onstage
kissing. That night was peck free.  “It’s a unique experience and different every night,”
said  Kevin McCollum , the producer presenting the run. “It
speaks to people and what they expect in a relationship. The
show celebrates that dance.”  McCollum said another incarnation is possible.  “I wanted to introduce her to New York,” he said.
“‘We’ll see what happens.”  Over coffee on the Upper West Side, Northan comes off as
more demure than her onstage confection. She said she’s done
improvisational comedy since she was a teenager and “Blind
Date” began as 10 minutes at a 2007 Toronto arts festival.  “I wanted to do something funny that involved an audience
member and pushed the envelope,” she said. “It was a
terrifying experiment that worked every night.”  Clown Nose  She expanded the show and performed successful gigs in
Toronto and Calgary. Her friend Bob Martin, a fellow Canadian
who was the co-writer and star of Broadway’s “The Drowsy
Chaperone,” referred her to McCollum.  She’s created about 50 “Blind Date” performances so far
in Canada and New York. Offstage, she’s had less experience.  “That’s the only lie in the whole show,” said Northan,
who is divorced. “I’ve never been on a blind date in my real
life. But I think if I did without a clown’s nose and an
audience, I’d be just as awkward and inept as anyone else.  What
a stressful situation.”  Although the clown nose obscures an attractive little
nozzle, she said it’s essential.  “I would never do the show without the nose,” she said.
“The nose offers protection to me and the guy. It’s a reminder
that we’re clowning and there’s nothing serious here.”  “Blind Date” is at Ars Nova, 511 W. 54th St. Information:
https://www.ovationtix.com/trs/pr/791495.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 