-- Boston Scientific Said to Abandon Sale of Pain Unit
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-12-13T21:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/boston-scientific-said-to-abandon-sale-of-pain-management-unit-over-price.html
Boston Scientific Corp.  has halted
efforts to sell its pain-management business after disagreements
over the value of the unit, said four people familiar with the
matter.  Boston Scientific, based in Natick, Massachusetts, tried
for several months to sell its neuromodulation business and was
seeking from $1.5 billion to $2 billion for it, said the people,
who declined to be named because the talks were private. Boston
Scientific halted the process a few weeks ago and is unlikely to
pursue a sale of the unit, one person said.  Johnson & Johnson , the world’s largest health products
company, explored a purchase of the pain unit for a little more
than $1 billion and decided not to proceed, said two of the
people. Other interested parties were willing to pay from $1
billion to $1.5 billion, three people said.  Boston Scientific spent most of 2010 seeking buyers for the
pain unit and its stroke-device business.  Stryker Corp. , the
maker of artificial hips and knees based in Kalamazoo, Michigan,
agreed Oct. 28 to buy the stroke-device unit for about $1.5
billion. At the time, Boston Scientific anticipated completing
the pain-management sale within a few weeks, said three people
familiar with the matter. Bank of America Merrill Lynch advised
Boston Scientific on both processes.  “As a matter of policy we don’t comment on speculation
about acquisitions,”  Bill Price , a spokesman for New Brunswick,
New Jersey-based J&J, said today in a telephone interview.  Paul Donovan , a spokesman for Boston Scientific, declined to comment
in a telephone interview.  Cut Expenses  Boston Scientific Chief Executive Officer  Ray Elliott  has
moved to diversify the company’s product line, cut expenses and
refinance debt acquired in its 2006 purchase of Guidant Corp.
Boston Scientific, the world’s second-largest maker of heart
devices, has been dealing with slowing sales of cardiac stents
and surgically implanted pacemakers and defibrillators that help
treat heart rhythm disorders.  Boston Scientific shares fell 2 cents to $7.09 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. J&J fell 5 cents to
$61.86.  “It may simply mean that, if they did try and it didn’t
work out, they re-evaluated the strategic relevance of this to
their business,”  Joanne Wuensch , an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets in New York, said in a telephone interview. “It may
mean that they think they can turn around the business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  