-- Bovespa Stock Index Gains on Commodities Rally, Improved Economic Outlook
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-12-13T21:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/bovespa-stock-index-gains-on-commodities-rally-improved-economic-outlook.html
The  Bovespa  stock index rose for a
second day, gaining the most in more than a week, as commodities
rallied after China refrained from boosting interest rates and
Brazil’s broadest inflation gauge trailed economists’ forecasts.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, rose as crude prices gained in New York.  Even
Construtora e Incorporadora SA  surged after the Relatorio
Reservado newsletter said  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA
Empreendimentos e Participacoes  is in talks to acquire the
homebuilder. MRV Engenharia e Participacoes SA led Brazilian
real-estate companies to their biggest rally in almost two weeks
as traders pared bets for higher borrowing costs.  “It’s helping that China didn’t raise interest rates,”
said  Joao Pedro Brugger , who helps oversee 60 million reais
($35.6 million) at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis, Brazil.
“Consumer stocks have really gotten hit, but we’re still going
to have very strong growth next year.”  The  Bovespa  index advanced 1.1 percent to 69,126.32, the
biggest gain since Dec. 1. Forty-six stocks rose on the index
while 22 fell. The  BM&FBovespa Small Cap index  gained 0.8
percent. The real climbed 0.8 percent to 1.6939 per dollar
today.  Emerging-market stocks climbed, with the benchmark index in
China, Brazil’s biggest trading partner, surging the most in
eight weeks, after the nation’s central bank refrained from
raising interest rates. China on Dec. 10 ordered banks to set
aside larger reserves and didn’t announce an interest-rate
increase, even as the inflation rate reached 5.1 percent in
November while industrial-output growth beat economists’
estimates.  Rate Outlook  Petrobras rose 0.8 percent to 25.91 reais.  Brazil’s central bank will increase the  benchmark interest
rate  to 11.25 percent in January, according to the median
forecast in a Dec. 10 central bank survey of about 100
economists published today.  Gross domestic product  will grow
7.61 percent this year, higher than last week’s median estimate
of 7.54 percent, according to the survey.  Rossi jumped 2.6 percent to 14.57 reais.  “The company is moving toward stronger launch volume after
three years of stable operations,” Santander analysts wrote in
a note to clients. “We expect margins to perform well, with the
cash cycle improving as a result of product mix changes.”  MRV jumped 5.1 percent, the most since Nov. 11, to 16.65
reais.  Economic Growth  Even jumped 4.9 percent to 8.63 reais. The purchase is part
of Cyrela’s strategy to regain its position as Brazil’s largest
homebuilder, which it lost when PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos e
Participacoes bought Agra Empreendimentos Imobiliarios SA, the
Rio de Janeiro-based newsletter said.  Even denied the report, according to its external media
relations company, MZ Media Relations. Cyrela didn’t immediately
return calls and e-mail from Bloomberg News seeking comment.  Cyrela climbed 0.1 percent to 20.88 reais.  Emerging-market equity funds attracted more money last
week, with year-to-date inflows moving within “striking
distance” of the $90 billion mark, EPFR Global said.  Increased optimism about economic growth prospects prompted
investors to commit $13.7 billion to equity funds worldwide in
the week ended Dec. 8, of which $3.1 billion was in emerging-
market funds, Boston-based EPFR said in a Dec. 10 e-mail.  The  Bovespa index  gained 0.8 percent this year as earnings
prospects bolstered by the fastest growth in two decades offset
concern Europe’s debt crisis and rising borrowing costs in China
will slow demand for exports.  The gauge still trades for 10.5 times analysts’ 2011
earnings estimates through last week, less than the 11.3 price-
to-earnings ratio for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Shanghai Composite Index 
trades for 13.2 times profits, Russia’s  Micex  trades at 7.2
times and India’s  Sensex  trades at a ratio of 15.7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  