-- Build America Extension Sought by Democrat Wyden in Senate Tax Compromise
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-12-13T22:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/build-america-bond-program-extension-sought-by-democrat-in-senate-tax-bill.html
A Democratic U.S. senator is
proposing what may be a last-ditch effort to extend the Build
America Bonds program as part of legislation being considered by
the Senate to continue the 2001 and 2003 income-tax cuts.  Oregon’s  Ron Wyden , an advocate of the securities who
previously led Democrats in an unsuccessful bid to have an
extension included in the tax bill, offered an amendment seeking
to keep them available for a year beyond their scheduled end on
Dec. 31, said Jennifer Hoelzer, his spokeswoman.  The looming end of the federally subsidized debt program,
which pays 35 percent of the interest expenses on municipal
bonds sold for public works, is threatening to push up borrowing
costs for cash-strapped state and local governments.  The securities were left out of the agreement President
 Barack Obama  struck with Republicans, some of whom have been
critical of the program. While in the minority, the party has
enough power to stall the passage of legislation.  There have been no decisions about whether the Senate will
vote on amendments to the tax package. Republican Senator  Robert Corker  predicted none would make it through.  “No amendments are going to pass, I think everybody knows
that,” Corker told reporters in the Capitol. “This was
structured so it’s just an up or down.”  ‘Uphill Fight’  Passage of Wyden’s amendment would be a struggle because
Republicans have made it clear that they oppose extending the
Build America program, said William Daly, a Washington lobbyist
with the Bond Dealers of America, which represents regional
underwriting firms.  “I think he has an uphill fight,” Daly said.  Build Americas were created under the president’s stimulus
legislation last year as a means of driving down borrowing costs
for localities and funneling money to job-stoking construction
projects. Issuers have sold about $179 billion of the securities
since April 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  More than 60 senators have voted to advance the Senate tax
bill. Approval by 60 senators will clear the way for final
passage of the bill tomorrow.  The House of Representatives will approve the measure after
the Senate acts this week, House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer 
told reporters. While House Democrats have said they would push
for changes to the deal, White House adviser  David Axelrod  said
the administration expects them to back the package.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  