-- Build America Borrowers Race Countdown Clock Before Year-End: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2010-12-13T21:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/build-america-borrowers-race-countdown-clock-before-year-end-muni-credit.html
Issuers from across the U.S. are
moving up planned Build America Bond sales to this month, making
the quarter the biggest yet for the program, which is set to
expire Dec. 31 if Congress doesn’t extend it.  States and municipalities are slated to offer more than
$3.8 billion of the securities this week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales of the taxable debt in the last
three months of 2010 to date represent about 21 percent of the
$179 billion sold since the program began in April 2009,
Bloomberg data show.  The securities, which include a 35 percent federal subsidy
on interest costs, have allowed state and local governments to
borrow at a lower cost than traditional tax-exempt debt.
President  Barack Obama  and Republican congressional leaders left
the program out of a tax deal they reached last week, hastening
issuers to market.  “We had expected it to be renewed in one form or another,
but when that chance began declining we prepared to go,” said
 Brian Thomas , chief financial officer of the  Metropolitan Water
District of Southern California.   The district is planning to sell $250 million in Build
Americas as soon as this week. The deal had originally been set
for March, Thomas said. The market is likely to be “juiced up”
by issuers pulling early 2011 deals back to this month, said
 Chris Mier , a municipal strategist at Chicago-based Loop Capital
Markets LLC.  “The issuers close to doing their deals are going to get
them done this month,” Mier said. “You’re going to see a
little bit lighter supply in January, February, March -- those
are the issuers who pulled back to the this month.”  Yield Pressure  The indecision over the Build America program put upward
pressure on long-term tax-exempt yields as 30-year rates jumped
 79 basis points  since Oct. 29, according to a BVAL benchmark
index. That has widened the  difference between 2- and 30-year
rates , to a so-called spread of 4.06 percentage points Dec. 9,
the most since Aug. 18, 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on two-year debt have risen 9 basis points, or
0.09 percentage point, since Oct. 29.  The average yield on Build Americas fell to 6.33 percent
Dec. 9, according to a Wells Fargo index of composite maturities
averaging 28.8 years. That’s a post-subsidy cost of about 4.11
percent, which compares with a  4.62 percent  yield on top-rated
tax-exempts due in 30 years, according to a Bloomberg Valuation
index.  In a sale this month by New York’s Empire State Development
Corp., 10-year tax-exempts yielded 3.17 percent, while Build
Americas of the same maturity sold at 4.61 percent, or 3 percent
post-subsidy.  Mutual Fund Flows  How much pressure the potential demise of the Build America
program puts on long tax-exempts “will be a function of how
much it gets hurt by mutual-fund flows,” said  Peter Coffin ,
president of Boston-based Breckinridge Capital Advisors Inc.,
which manages about $13 billion in municipal debt, including
$600 million in taxables.  Tax-exempt mutual funds shrank for a fifth consecutive week
as investors pulled out $538 million in the period ended Dec. 8,
according to  Chris Holmes , fixed-income strategist at  JPMorgan
Chase & Co . in New York, citing data from Lipper FMI. The trend
is likely to continue as the Build America program expires, he
said.  “With prospects for BABs renewal declining, we suspect
continued outflows over the near term as investors speculate on
the potential impact on tax-exempt valuations,” Holmes said.  Economic Stimulus  The Build America program, the fastest-growing part of the
$2.86 trillion municipal market, began as part of Obama’s
economic-stimulus package to spur public works projects by
driving down borrowing costs.  The San Francisco  Public Utilities Commission , which plans
to sell $350 million in Build Americas this week, accelerated
the offering several months ahead of its previous schedule, said
Charles Perl, deputy chief financial officer for the district.  “We were trying to beat the clock, so we fast-tracked the
financing to take advantage,” Perl said.  New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s finance
committee today approved a $750 million Build America issue to
get in before the deadline. The agency estimates an all-in
borrowing cost of 4.65 percent versus 5.5 percent for tax-
exempts.  “We think there’s liquidity to sell the bonds,” said
Finance Director  Patrick McCoy  at a meeting today.  The bonds represent about half of the new money financing
the MTA planned for next year.  Build America sales this quarter are set to be $39.3
billion, the most since the last three months of 2009, when
$26.6 billion were issued, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Ashley Lutz  at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  