-- Cadillac Returns to Racing With CTS-V Coupe as GM Pushes Sports Marketing
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2010-12-13T19:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/cadillac-returns-to-racing-with-cts-v-coupe-as-gm-pushes-sports-marketing.html
General Motor Co. ’s Cadillac brand,
resuming sports marketing after the automaker’s bankruptcy, will
return to racing in 2011 with a version of its CTS-V Coupe
competing in the Sports Car Club of America World Challenge.  Cadillac’s return to SCCA would be GM’s latest move to
boost its sports marketing after budget cuts ended many of the
automaker’s racing programs and sponsorships during the past
several years. Detroit-based GM ended many of its golf
sponsorships before its 2009 bankruptcy.  “This is a good platform to promote V-series, which
strengthens the Cadillac brand,” said  Jim Vurpillat , Cadillac’s
global marketing director. “V-series represents what we want
the brand to be: the height of design, performance and
technology.”  The first event in the SCCA World Challenge is March 25-27 in
St. Petersburg, Florida. Johnny O’Connell, a three-time GT1
champion in the America Le Mans Series, and Andy Pilgrim , who won
the 2005 SCCA World Challenge GT class in a Cadillac, will be
behind the wheel of the CTS-V racecars, GM said in a statement.  Pratt & Miller, a New Hudson, Michigan-based engineering firm
that specializes in motorsports, will help develop the CTS-V Coupe
racecar. Some of the production components will be modified because
of the special demands of racing or SCCA series rules.  Cadillac said on Nov. 29 it will sponsor the World Golf
Championships PGA event at Doral Golf Resort & Spa in Miami in
March. The tournament will be renamed the Cadillac Championship
through 2016.  GM ended its relationship with golfer  Tiger Woods  in 2008
and its sponsorship of the Buick Open golf tournament in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 