-- California Plans Charging Network for 1 Million Electric-Powered Vehicles
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-12-13T20:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/california-plans-charging-network-for-1-million-electric-powered-vehicles.html
California, the U.S. state that buys
the most cars and trucks, set up an alliance of state agencies,
utilities and automakers aimed at creating a charging network to
handle 1 million electric vehicles by 2020.  The  California Plug-In Electric Vehicle Collaborative  said
today at a conference at Universal Studios in Los Angeles that
it will work to simplify the process of installing home-chargers
and seek to ease restrictions on vehicle charging in apartments
and condominiums. The group, made up of 30 agencies,
organizations and companies, will promote installation of public
charging equipment and off-peak charging rates.  Nissan Motor Co. ,  General Motors Co.  and other automakers
are set to begin delivering tens of thousands of rechargeable
vehicles in California and nationwide. A decade ago,
California’s program requiring the largest carmakers to sell
electric vehicles in the state failed in part because of
inadequate charging infrastructure.  “By 2025, to meet our air quality emissions goals we’re
going to need to have about 250,000 battery and plug-in hybrids
being sold in California every single year,”  Mary Nichols , head
of the state’s Air Resources Board, told reporters today.  The timing of the release of Nissan’s Leaf, GM’s Volt and
the plug-in Prius from  Toyota Motor Corp.  and other rechargeable
vehicles coincides with California’s so-called zero-emission
vehicle mandate requiring the six biggest automakers to sell
battery-powered vehicles in the state starting with 2012 models.  Private Sector  While federal and state incentives are helping spur a
market for plug-ins, creating a charging network for 1 million
electric autos requires private-sector investment as California
lacks the funds to do it alone, said Nichols and  Jonathan Read ,
chief executive officer of  ECOtality , a San Francisco-based
renewable energy company that’s setting up charging networks in
16 U.S. cities.  “This has to be led by private investment,” Read said.  Nissan last week delivered its first electric Leaf
hatchback to a San Francisco-area driver, and has 20,000 initial
orders for the car that goes about 70 miles powered by lithium-
ion batteries. GM this month begins delivering its rechargeable
Volt sedan that goes about 40 miles on a charge.  Carlos Ghosn , chief executive officer of Nissan and
affiliate  Renault SA  of France, has set a goal of leading the
auto industry in vehicles powered solely by electricity,
targeting sales of at least 500,000 battery cars worldwide
within the next few years. Ghosn has estimated that electric
cars may account for 10 percent of global auto sales by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  