-- California Pension Fund Should Restrict Revolving Door, Lawyers Recommend
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-12-13T21:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/california-pension-fund-should-restrict-revolving-door-lawyers-recommend.html
 The California Public Employees
Retirement System, the largest U.S. pension fund, should impose
a “cooling-off” period restricting how quickly former
executives may take jobs with money managers, its outside
lawyers recommended.  Calpers staff and board members who leave should be
prohibited for two years from taking a job with any company that
was awarded $10 million or more in business during the previous
five years, said a report today from Steptoe & Johnson LLP, the
law firm hired to examine practices of the fund, which has $218
billion in assets.  The California attorney general’s office accused former
Calpers board member  Alfred Villalobos  of trying to improperly
influence the fund’s personnel to favor  Apollo Global Management
LLC  and other private-equity clients. Federal and state agencies
are probing influence peddling for access to the $2 trillion in
U.S. public-pension funds. Villalobos has denied wrongdoing.  “We take these matters with the utmost seriousness,”  Anne Stausboll , the fund’s chief executive officer, told the board
today. “Our goal is to make sure we have corrected the problems
and that never again has Calpers’ credibility been called into
question.”  The report recommends that board members and executive
staff be prohibited from taking jobs during the cooling off
period with firms known as placement agents that act as
middlemen to win investment contracts for clients.  On Oct. 1, Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  signed a law
prohibiting money managers from paying contingency fees to
middlemen who help win state retirement-plan contracts.  The fund in November agreed to  rules  compelling any company
seeking a contract worth more than $10,000 to report hiring a
placement agent to win Calpers business. The rule also requires
disclosure of how much was paid and for what services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 