-- Canada's Currency Gains With Commodities on View Global Economy Recovering
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-12-13T22:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/canada-s-dollar-climbs-with-stocks-oil-on-view-global-economy-recovering.html
Canada’s dollar rose for a fourth
day, the longest winning streak in more than a month, as gains
in commodities and stocks made currencies related to economic
growth more attractive.  The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie, extended this
month’s increase to 1.8 percent versus the U.S. dollar, which
has dropped against all of its 16 major counterparts. The loonie
pared gains as North American equities and crude oil curtailed
advances.  “Commodities are the main story again on the Canadian
dollar,”  Michael Leavitt , a Montreal-based institutional-
derivatives broker at MF Global Canada Co., said via e-mail.
“However, we’re at a bit of a junction and we need to see a
clear move through 99.75 Canadian cents per U.S. dollar.”  The Canadian currency, called the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.2 percent to
C$1.0074 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0091 on
Dec. 10. One Canadian dollar bought 99.27 U.S. cents. The
currency’s stretch of daily gains was the longest since the
seven days ended Nov. 5.  The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of  raw materials  advanced
1.6 percent, the most on a closing basis since Dec. 1.  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, trimmed an advance.
Crude for January delivery traded at $88.24 a barrel, up 0.5
percent, after earlier increasing 1.9 percent to $89.49.  The Standard & Poor’s Toronto Stock Exchange  Composite
Index  ended the day up 0.4 percent after rising as much as 0.9
percent. The S&P 500 erased gains, while the  MSCI World  Index
advanced 0.7 percent.  Exchange Rates  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said the refusal by
some countries to let their exchange rates float is slowing
inflation in advanced economies, which may spark additional
loosening of policies globally.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars outperformed the
loonie after China’s central bank refrained from raising
borrowing costs over the weekend. Consumer prices in China rose
in November more than forecast, increasing 5.1 percent from a
year earlier, statistics showed. China has ordered lenders to
park more money with the central bank to counter inflation.  “The main drivers for modest Canadian dollar strength
today are commodity prices higher and no rate hike by China,”
 Blake Jespersen , director of foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank
of Montreal, said via e-mail.  The amount of Canadian industrial companies’  plant  capacity
in use increased to 78.1 percent in the July-September period,
from a revised 76.9 percent in the previous quarter, Statistics
Canada said today in Ottawa. Economists in a Bloomberg survey
predicted the rate would be 76.5 percent, based on the median of
14 estimates.  Bonds Gain  Government bonds rose, pushing the five-year note’s  yield 
lower by eight basis points, or 0.8 percentage point, to 2.48
percent. Earlier it reached 2.612 percent, the strongest since
June 23. The price of the 3 percent security maturing in
December 2015 climbed 35 cents to C$102.42.  Keeping currencies fixed has begun to force inflation
higher in emerging markets and disinflation elsewhere, which
“reinforces the low-interest-rate strategies of major advanced
economies and may necessitate further rounds of quantitative
easing,” Bank of Canada’s Carney said in the text of a speech
he gave in Toronto today.  Canadian households had higher debt ratios than their U.S.
counterparts for the first time in 12 years. The ratio of
household credit market debt-to-personal disposable income rose
to 148.1 percent from 143.4 percent as income fell 1.5 percent,
Statistics Canada said in a report from Ottawa. U.S. debts
represent 147.2 percent of households’ disposable income,
according to the Federal Reserve.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  