-- Canadian Household Debt Exceeds U.S. Levels for First Time in 12 Years
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-13T17:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/canadian-household-saw-their-net-worth-and-debts-increase-in-third-quarter.html
Canadian households had a higher
debt-to-income ratio than their U.S. counterparts for the first
time in 12 years, even as their net worth advanced during the
third quarter, government figures show.  The ratio of household credit market debt-to-personal
disposable income rose to 148.1 percent from 143.4 percent as
income fell 1.5 percent, Statistics Canada said in a  report  from
Ottawa. In the U.S., debts represent 147.2 percent of
households’ disposable income, according to the U.S. Federal
Reserve.  The Bank of Canada  expects  consumer spending to account for
more than half of the country’s growth this year and next. The
central bank said last week Canadian households have become more
vulnerable in the past six months as debts have risen faster
than income. The Globe and Mail reported today that the
government is considering tightening mortgage rules to make it
harder for households to become overextended.  “Low rates today do not necessarily mean low rates
tomorrow,” Bank of Canada  Mark Carney  said today in a speech in
Toronto. “It is the responsibility of households to ensure that
in the future, they can service the debts they take on today.”  The proportion of Canadians in a “stretched” financial
position “has grown significantly,” Carney said in the speech,
adding that authorities continue to monitor households’
finances.  Household debt levels are a concern, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  told reporters in Thetford Mines, Quebec, adding that
interest rates are unlikely to go down.  Canadians now owe C$44,000 ($43,800) per capita. The last
time the debt-to-income ratio was higher than in the U.S. was in
the third quarter of 1998.  Reversing Decline  The value of Canadian households assets minus their
liabilities increased 2.7 percent to C$6.11 trillion in the
July-September period, reversing a decline in the previous
quarter as stock markets advanced, the agency said.  Household net worth was 614 percent of personal disposable
income, Statistics Canada said, up from 602 percent in the
previous quarter.  The gain in household asset values was partly offset by a
C$108 billion drop in corporate net worth and a C$9 billion
decline in government net worth, which fell to negative C$53
billion. National net worth rose C$45 billion to C$6.28
trillion.  The report said companies’ credit market debt-to-equity
ratio fell to 54.7 percent from 54.8 percent, as their equity
issues and undistributed earnings rose more than their
borrowing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexandre Deslongchamps in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  