-- Carlyle Finance Chief Peter Nachtwey Leaves Firm
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-12-13T18:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/carlyle-finance-chief-nachtwey-leaves-in-setback-to-planned-public-listing.html
Peter Nachtwey , the chief financial
officer of Carlyle Group, is leaving the world’s second-biggest
private-equity firm as it plans a public share sale to meet the
challenge of raising money for buyout funds.  Glenn Youngkin  will assume the role of interim CFO,
 Christopher Ullman , a spokesman for Washington-based Carlyle,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. Nachtwey will become
CFO of  Legg Mason Inc. , the Baltimore-based asset management
firm that oversees $668 billion, Legg Mason said today.  “Pete decided to pursue a great new opportunity for him,”
Ullman said. “We thank him for his service to Carlyle and wish
him continued success.”  Carlyle is gearing up for an initial public offering to
amass permanent capital as wealthy individuals and institutions
that traditionally backed private equity firms become more
reluctant to commit fresh capital. Nachtwey, a former Deloitte &
Touche LLP partner, joined Carlyle in 2007, when the firm first
considered an initial public offering.  Carlyle plans to file IPO papers late in 2011, people with
knowledge of the matter said earlier this month. The stock sale
may not occur until the following year, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the plans are private.  The firm has considered an IPO since at least June 2007,
when larger rival  Blackstone Group LP  began trading on the New
York Stock Exchange. Nachtwey’s clients at Deloitte included
Blackstone.  Reluctant Investors  Investors have been reluctant to pony up for new buyout
pools, given that the industry has $461 billion in committed,
unspent capital already, according to London researcher Preqin
Ltd. Half of the private-equity funds worldwide that started
investing in 2006 through 2009 were posting a loss of at least 4
percent as of the end of June, according to Preqin data.  Washington-based Carlyle has participated in 33 deals this
year, with a total value of $16 billion, higher than any rivals,
 Bloomberg Businessweek  reported in its Dec. 13 edition. It beat
out Blackstone and TPG Capital to buy NBTY, maker of Nature’s
Bounty, MET-Rx and Solgar nutritional supplements, for $3.8
billion in July. In October, Carlyle agreed to buy CommScope, a
manufacturer of fiber-optic networks, for $3.9 billion.  Carlyle returned $5.7 billion to clients through the third
quarter -- more than Blackstone and KKR & Co. combined --
compared with $2.4 billion in all of 2009. It funded the payouts
by selling nine companies and adding debt to others.  Carlyle says it has raised $3.7 billion in 2010. That’s up
from $1 billion last year but nowhere near the $20 billion it
raised in 2008.  Blackstone  When Blackstone went public, it said having stock would
give it a currency to buy companies, recruit and retain
employees and enable founders  Stephen Schwarzman  and Peter G.
Peterson to convert their ownership stakes into shares and cash.
The New York-based  company  has fallen 45 percent from the $31
IPO price.  Carlyle’s plans for an IPO were put on hold when debt
markets froze during the financial crisis. The firm instead sold
a 7.5 percent stake to Mubadala Development Co., an arm of the
Abu Dhabi government, in September 2007.  Nachtwey’s departure from Carlyle was previously reported
by the Financial Times.  Carlyle, which was founded in 1987 by  William Conway ,  David Rubenstein  and  Daniel D’Aniello  with $5 million in seed capital,
would use proceeds from the IPO to invest in its funds and
continue to expand beyond corporate buyouts.  Earlier this month, Carlyle bought a 55 percent stake in
Claren Road Asset Management, a $4.5 billion hedge fund. The
firm has also hired several high-level bankers, including  Mitch Petrick , Morgan Stanley’s former sales and trading chief, to
help raise funds and move into new markets.  KKR, which also weighed going public during the IPO boom,
later merged with a European-listed affiliate and moved the
stock to New York. It has gained 22 percent since the switch to
the  New York Stock Exchange  in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 