-- Carney Says More Quantitative Easing May Be Needed, Warns Canada on Debts
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-13T21:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/carney-says-more-quantitative-easing-may-be-needed-warns-canada-on-debts.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said the refusal by some countries to let exchange rates float
is slowing inflation in advanced economies, which may spark
additional loosening of policies globally. He also warned
Canadians against borrowing too much with low interest rates.  Keeping currencies fixed has begun to send inflation higher
in emerging markets and disinflation elsewhere, which
“reinforces the low-interest-rate strategies of major advanced
economies and may necessitate further rounds of quantitative
easing,” Carney, 45, said in a speech he gave to the Economic
Club of Canada in Toronto today.  The U.S., Japanese and European central banks are still
relying on asset purchases -- so-called quantitative easing --to
revive demand and are keeping their interest rates close to
record lows. Carney, who kept his  key lending rate  at 1 percent
Dec. 7, said there are limits to how much Canada’s economy can
diverge from the U.S., where policy makers tomorrow may leave
their rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Carney said the U.S. Federal Reserve’s policies have had
“all the expected effects,” including a weakening of the U.S.
dollar, adding that the latest round of quantitative easing
should have a “positive but small” impact on Canadian  economic
growth .  ‘Trade Drag’  “One of the risks is persistent strength of the Canadian
dollar could interact with weak productivity performance and
reinforce this trade drag that we have seen,” Carney said at a
press conference after his speech. “To some extent that risk is
being realized, which is one of the things we will have to
assess as we sit down in January,” he said. The bank’s next
rate decision is Jan. 18.  China’s policy of limiting movements in its exchange rate
is leading to inflationary pressure, Carney said, adding “U.S.
monetary policy isn’t appropriate for China.” Chinese  consumer
prices  jumped 5.1 percent in November, a statistics bureau
report showed Dec. 11, and a measure of wholesale costs climbed
6.1 percent, exceeding all 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  Without currency movements, consumer prices will rise more
slowly in developed economies and encourage central banks to
keep borrowing costs low, Carney said. “This more wrenching
adjustment has already begun,” he said.  Canadian companies need to boost investment because they
have “challenges with competitiveness” and “traditional
markets are much weaker than in the past” Carney also told
reporters.  ‘Low for Long’  The proportion of Canadians in a stretched financial
 position  “has grown significantly,” Carney said in the speech
-- entitled “Living with Low for Long” -- adding that
authorities continue to monitor households’ finances. The bank
said in its semi-annual Financial System Review Dec. 9 that
there is now a “moderate” risk that low global borrowing costs
could fuel a new round of excessive risk-taking by investors.  “It seems to me that with each passing speech, the
warnings are getting a little louder and a little bit worse and
a little more dire,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist
with BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “The bank can’t do much
else other than jawbone, so they’re using the one tool they have
at their disposal with a great deal of enthusiasm.”  Carney reiterated today that the level of Canada’s policy
interest rate “leaves considerable monetary stimulus in
place.” Canada’s central bank led the Group of Seven earlier
this year with three rate increases from June through September.  Higher Than U.S.  The ratio of household credit market debt-to-personal
disposable income rose to 148.1 percent in the third quarter
from 143.4 percent in the April-June period as income fell 1.5
percent, Statistics Canada said today in a  report  from Ottawa.
In the U.S., debts represent 147.2 percent of households’
disposable income, according to the U.S. Federal Reserve.  “Low rates today do not necessarily mean low rates
tomorrow,” Carney said. “It is the responsibility of
households to ensure that in the future, they can service the
debts they take on today.”  Banks and companies have to be careful too, Carney said,
citing financial institutions’ strategy of rebuilding capital by
investing in long-term government bonds.  “This strategy is effective to a point, provided
complacency does not set in over the duration of low policy
rates,” Carney said. “Banks would do well to remember that
marginal adjustments of interest rates have non-negligible
effects when leverage is high.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Toronto at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  