-- Cash Crunch Means RBI Seen Buying 300 Billion Rupees of Debt: India Credit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2010-12-14T08:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/cash-crunch-means-rbi-seen-buying-300-billion-rupees-of-debt-india-credit.html
India’s government may buy more
bonds from the market to ease the worst  cash crunch  in 10 years,
according to companies obliged to bid at debt auctions.  The yield on the benchmark 2020 security has dropped 11
basis points from a 26-month high of 8.21 percent in the past
week as the Reserve Bank of India bought back 101 billion rupees
($2.2 billion) of securities. Policy makers may purchase 300
billion rupees of notes for the rest of the financial year
ending March 31, according to ICICI Securities Primary
Dealership Ltd. and IDBI Gilts Ltd., including 120 billion
rupees tomorrow, the most this quarter.  “The banking system is short of liquidity, and so the RBI
may want to address that through bond buybacks,”  Manoj Swain ,
chief executive officer at Morgan Stanley India Primary Dealer
Pvt. in Mumbai, said in a phone interview yesterday, without
specifying how much policy makers would purchase.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said Dec. 9 he is “deeply
conscious” of the shortage of cash in the banking system, even
as  inflation  stays above the central bank’s “tolerance level.”
A government report today showed benchmark inflation cooled to
7.48 percent in November from 8.58 percent in October, compared
with 8.1 percent in Russia, 5.1 percent in China and 5.6 percent
in Brazil.  The central bank  injected  an average 820 billion rupees
every day into banks this quarter, the most since 2000,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The amount the lenders
borrowed is an indication of the shortage of funds in the
financial system. The government raised 677.2 billion rupees by
auctioning third-generation phone licenses in May and 385.4
billion rupees by selling Internet permits a month later,
draining cash from lenders.  Yields Climb  The cost of fixing rates on money for  three months  surged
295 basis points, or 2.95 percentage points, this year to 6.90
percent in the interest-rate swaps market, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Overnight  loan rates  between banks averaged 6.6
percent this month, twice the rate a year ago.  The yield on the 7.8 percent bond maturing in May 2020
dropped one basis point to 8.10 percent today. It has risen
three basis points this month on concern tax payments will
deplete cash in the system. Such payments will total 500 billion
rupees this week, according to ICICI Securities Primary
Dealership.  “Bond purchases may be a key tool policy makers will look
at, with corporate-tax outflows set to add to the liquidity
tightness,” Namrata Padhye, a fixed-income strategist at
Mumbai-based primary dealer IDBI Gilts, said in an interview
yesterday.  Bond Returns  India’s three-month  Treasury bill  yields have more than
doubled to 7.15 percent this year as the Reserve Bank lifted
borrowing costs by 150 basis points, the most of any central
bank in Asia, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The comparable
measure climbed 14 basis points to 10.67 percent in Brazil and
12 basis points to 0.16 percent in the U.S. The rate on similar
notes from the People’s Bank of China rose 124 basis points to
3.05 percent.  The difference in  yields  between India’s debt due in a
decade and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries was 483 basis points
yesterday, compared with 372 at the start of the year.  India’s bonds have returned 4.1 percent this year, the
fifth-worst performance among 10 local-currency debt markets
tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc. Investors in Indonesia’s debt
assets earned 22.4 percent, the most in the region, according to
Europe’s largest bank.  The rupee, which has appreciated 3.4 percent this year,
strengthened 0.4 percent today to 44.98 per dollar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fiscal Deficit  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned State
Bank of India, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, has dropped 77 basis points from this year’s peak of 239
on optimism the nation will meet its fiscal-deficit target,
according to the data provider CMA. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should the bank fail to adhere to its debt
agreements. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  The government plans to reduce the  fiscal deficit  to 5.5
percent of gross domestic product in the current financial year
from 6.9 percent last year, the sharpest cut in three years,
helped by sales of stakes in state-run companies. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  is seeking to raise 400 billion rupees by selling
such assets in the year to March to help fund the construction
of roads, ports and hospitals.  “The central bank will do more buybacks and try to infuse
some money,”  Prasanna Ananthasubramaniam , a Mumbai-based chief
economist at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership, said in an
interview yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 V. Ramakrishnan  in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  