-- Cathay Pacific Begins Pilot Wage Talks Under Threat of Industrial Action
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-12-13T09:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/cathay-pacific-pilots-union-start-five-days-of-salary-talks-in-hong-kong.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. , Hong
Kong’s biggest carrier, today begins pay talks with pilots who
have voted for possible industrial action as they seek raises.  The discussions are expected to last five days,  Carolyn Leung , a Cathay spokeswoman said yesterday by phone. She didn’t
say how much the pilots were seeking.  The union wants rises of more than 30 percent over the next
four years and they could take action that would disrupt flights
over the Christmas period, the South China Morning Post  reported 
yesterday. Union members last month voted to allow leaders to
possibly recommend shunning overtime, while rejecting calls for
such action to start on Dec. 1.  “It’s a cost increase that the airline should be able to
absorb rather than having to face any possible disruptions,”
said K. Ajith, an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Research Pte in
Singapore. “I would expect the airline to come to some
compromise in the negotiations.”  Ajith expects the airline’s staffing costs to rise about
14.5 percent next year, he said. Last month, the carrier
announced it will give Hong Kong-based staff annual pay rises
averaging 4 percent and 4.5 percent. Staff will also receive a
13th month bonus payment and a profit-share pay-out.  Cathay’s incoming Chief Executive  John Slosar  said Dec. 7
he was optimistic the airline would reach an agreement with the
pilots.  ‘Constructive Negotiations’  “We are looking forward to constructive negotiations and a
mutually acceptable agreement,”  John Findlay , assistant general
secretary of the Hong Kong Aircrew Officers Association, said
today by e-mail. “The pay claim we submitted was reasonable and
is affordable.”  Cathay rose 2.4 percent to HK$23.85 at the close of trading
in Hong Kong. The stock has risen 65 percent this year compared
with a 6.6 percent gain in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  The carrier, the world’s third-largest by market value,
expects to more than double profit this year to at least HK$12.5
billion ($1.6 billion), helped by rebounding travel demand and
the sale of stakes in an air-cargo handler and a maintenance
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  