-- Chavez Seeks Decree Powers Ahead of New Congress as Opposition Cries Foul
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2010-12-13T19:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/chavez-seeks-decree-powers-ahead-of-new-congress-as-opposition-cries-foul.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  is
set to ask the  National Assembly  to grant him powers to enact
legislation without its approval, a move the opposition says is
intended to weaken the new congress being sworn in next month.  Decree powers are needed to quickly allocate resources to
build homes and repair infrastructure after heavy rains killed
35 people and left 124,000 homeless, Chavez said Dec. 10. The
government will request permission as early as today and begin
to pass legislation on Dec. 17, he said.  “We’ve been hit with a sea of infinite problems and we
need to legislate with the radical haste demanded by the
circumstances,” Chavez wrote yesterday in his weekly  newspaper
column . “I’m asking for an enabling law to pass laws in
housing, agriculture, food, infrastructure and economics to
resolve the emergency.”  The 56-year-old leader, who is seeking such powers for the
fourth time in his 12 years in office, is set to face greater
opposition in congress starting Jan. 5 after losing his two-
thirds majority in September elections. Chavez, who hasn’t said
how long he intends to keep the emergency authority, is trying
to make the new congress irrelevant, said  Julio Borges , head of
the opposition party Primero Justicia.  ‘Desperate’  “The president is desperate to pass socialist laws and
boost control over the media and Internet,” Borges said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “He says he’s giving more
power to the people, but he’s really exerting more power over
the people.”  Lawmakers will likely debate the enabling law tomorrow and
approve it in a second vote Dec. 16, Carlos Escarra, a
constitutional lawyer and pro-Chavez lawmaker, said today on
state television.  “To not approve this request would be an act of treason,”
he said.  Yields on the government’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds
maturing in 2027 fell nine basis points to 13.16 percent today
at 1:22 p.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The
price rose 0.5 cents on the dollar to 73.75 cents.  Chavez last held decree powers between January 2007 and
July 2008 and passed 26 laws on the day before the law expired,
deepening state control of the economy through measures such as
the nationalization of the local unit of Spain’s Banco Santander
SA.  Majority Party  His  United Socialist Party , while maintaining a majority in
the next assembly session, won’t be able to grant decree powers,
approve the national budget or pass new laws single-handedly.  Pro-Chavez lawmaker Marelis Perez Marcano said the enabling
law will extend into the new congress, while constitutional
lawyer Gerardo Fernandez said decree powers beyond Jan. 5 would
be unconstitutional, Caracas-based newspaper Ultimas Noticias
reported yesterday.  Chavez is also seeking to push through a law to declare
underutilized urban land public property, in order to build low-
income housing to resolve a shortage worsened by the rains.  The government will need “billions of dollars” from off-
budget sources to rebuild after the extensive flooding in seven
states and is tapping the  central bank  to finance a 350 million-
bolivar ($81.5 million) fund to rebuild hard-hit farming areas,
Chavez said last week.  Damage to crops will likely cause consumer prices to rise
in coming months, according to Barclays Capital. Venezuela,
which has the highest annual inflation rate of 78 economies
tracked by Bloomberg, saw prices rise 26.9 percent in November.  Foreign risk aversion to Venezuelan credit may minimize the
impact on government debt prices,  Siobhan Morden , head of Latin
America strategy at RBS Securities Inc., said today in a note to
clients.  “These headlines do not come necessarily as a surprise,”
Morden said. “Whether they are disruptive or not to sovereign
risk appetite will remain a function of the laws that are
proposed and whether overall external risk appetite remains
resilient enough to minimize the impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  