-- Chinese Stocks in U.S. Head Toward Biggest Gain in Month on Interest Rates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-13T18:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/china-s-stocks-jump-most-in-two-months-on-economic-reports-rate-caution.html
Chinese stocks  traded in the U.S.
rose toward the highest in a month after the central bank
refrained from increasing interest rates and economic indicators
showed the economy is withstanding tightening policies.  Aluminum Corp.  of China Ltd. and other commodity companies
gained as copper futures climbed to a 31-month high in New York
and to a record in London after China didn’t raise borrowing
costs.  PetroChina Co.  rose after Xinhua News Agency said the
company discovered an oilfield in Gansu province.  “Commodity prices are benefiting from the fact that rates
weren’t increased and people are feeling more optimistic about
commodities demand,” said  Nick Chamie , global head of emerging
markets research at RBC Capital Markets.  The  Bank of New York Mellon China ADR Index , which tracks
American depositary receipts, increased 0.9 percent to 431.26 at
12:53 p.m. New York time, which would be its highest close since
Nov. 15. The  American Stock Exchange China Index  added 0.5
percent to 237.69.  The gains in the U.S. came after the  Shanghai Composite
Index , which tracks the bigger of China’s stock exchanges,
advanced 2.9 percent to 2,922.95 at the close, the biggest gain
since Oct. 15. The  CSI 300 Index  added 3.1 percent to 3,261.06.  In New York, PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil company,
climbed 1.6 percent to $129.62.  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s largest
offshore oil producer, gained 1.9 percent to $238.01. Aluminum
Corp. of China, the nation’s biggest producer of the metal, rose
1.4 percent to $23.06.  Material Companies  Material companies are outperforming because the supply of
basic materials is limited while demand is inelastic,  Hao Hong ,
a Beijing-based CICC global equity strategist, wrote in a report
today. China’s stocks aren’t likely to have a “major
correction” in the short term, as November economic data erased
concerns about economic growth, CICC analysts including  Hou Zhenhai  wrote in a separate note.  Data today showed the economy is withstanding government
curbs.  Industrial-output growth  accelerated to 13.3 percent last
month from a year earlier, exceeding economists’ median estimate
of 13 percent. Urban fixed-asset investment also grew at a
faster pace, climbing 24.9 percent in the first 11 months of
2010.  Retail sales  gained 18.7 percent in November.  The Shanghai gauge has lost 7.5 percent since reaching an
almost seven-month high on Nov. 8 on concern that monetary
tightening will curb economic growth. The measure is down 11
percent this year, Asia’s worst performer, as the central bank
last month twice ordered banks to set aside larger reserves
after raising rates in October, the first increase since 2007.  Energy Stocks  In China today, measures of energy and material stocks
jumped 5.4 percent and 4.4 percent respectively, the second- and
third-biggest gains among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups.  So-called cyclical stocks with large and medium
capitalizations, such as non-ferrous metal producers and
financial companies, will rebound if the central bank doesn’t
raise rates by the end of the year, CICC said in the report.  A gauge of property stocks rose 3.2 percent today in China.
Poly Real Estate Group Co., China’s second-largest developer by
market value, gained 4.5 percent to 12.59 yuan.  China Vanke Co. ,
the biggest, climbed 3.7 percent to 8.40 yuan. Gemdale Corp.,
the fourth biggest, rose 2.4 percent to 5.94 yuan.  Consumer prices rose a more-than-forecast 5.1 percent from
a year earlier, a statistics bureau report showed over the
weekend. Producer-price inflation was 6.1 percent, higher than
any of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had estimated.  Economic Data  The statistics bureau brought forward the release of
economic data to Dec. 11 from Dec. 13, signaling to some
economists, including Societe Generale SA’s  Glenn Maguire , that
a rate increase could come as early as the weekend. Instead, the
central bank boosted reserve requirements by 50 basis points
starting Dec. 20, the third increase in five weeks.  “It’s a sensible policy move by regulators, and some
short-term strong medicine will prevent a more serious bubble
bursting later,” according to  Sandy Mehta , Hong Kong-based
chief investment officer for Value Investment Principals.  China won’t raise rates because that would fuel fund
inflows from overseas and exacerbate inflation, Huili Asset’s He
said, echoing comments made by  Wu Xiaoling , a former deputy
governor of the central bank, at a hedge fund conference in
Shanghai on Dec. 11.  Offshore Oil Engineering Co. , the drilling unit of the
nation’s largest offshore oil producer, jumped 10 percent to
7.95 yuan in Shanghai.  China Oilfield Services Ltd. , which has
the same parent as Offshore Oil, climbed 10 percent to 24.74
yuan in the city, the highest since May 2008.  Rate Increase Positive  China may announce a five-year development plan for the
nation’s advanced manufacturing equipment industry that includes
aviation, aerospace, high-speed rail, ocean engineering and
intelligent equipment, Shanghai Securities News reported today,
citing an unidentified person who helped draft the plan.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said it would be “fundamentally
positive” if China increases both loan and deposit rates early
to curb inflation amid the potential recovery of the U.S.
economy in 2011.  Investors want to see higher interest rates, according to
 Hugh Simon , co-manager of the Dreyfus Greater China Fund. Simon
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television he likes Chinese
technology, industrial and consumer stocks.  -- Zhang Shidong ,  Susan Li . With assistance from  Camila Russo  in
New York. Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Brendan Walsh   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  