-- China Datang's Wind Power Unit Said to Raise $643 Million in Hong Kong IPO
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   J o h n   D u c e
-- 2010-12-13T06:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/china-datang-renewable-said-to-raise-hk-5-billion-in-initial-public-offer.html
China Datang Corp. Renewable Power
Co. raised the minimum $643 million sought in a Hong Kong
initial public offering and rival  Huaneng Renewables Corp. 
scrapped its sale, amid concern the Chinese economy will slow.  Datang Renewable, China’s second-biggest wind-power
producer by capacity, sold 2.14 billion shares at HK$2.33 (30
cents) apiece, after offering them at HK$2.33 to HK$3.18 each,
according to two people with knowledge of the IPO, declining to
be identified before an announcement.  Hong Kong’s benchmark  Hang Seng  index has fallen 6.6
percent since reaching a year-high on Nov. 8 on concerns China
will take more measures to cool the world’s fastest-growing
major economy and rein in inflation. Investors in Chinese wind-
power producers  China Longyuan Power Group Corp.  and Xinjiang
Goldwind Science & Technology Co. have lost almost 10 percent
since they sold stock in Hong Kong in the past year.  “Wind power is seen as being too reliant on support from
China’s government,” said  Francis Lun , general manager at
Fulbright Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “I don’t think there’s
much appetite for wind power companies in Hong Kong.”  Huaneng Renewables, a unit of China Huaneng Group Corp.,
scrapped its IPO because of unexpected and excessive market
volatility, the company said in a statement to the Hong Kong
stock exchange today. Huaneng Renewables didn’t want to price
its shares at the bottom of a range offered to investors, two
people with knowledge of the transaction said. The company was
seeking as much as $1.3 billion as it offered shares from
HK$2.98 to HK$3.98 apiece.  Price Estimates  Datang International Power Generation Co.  and Huaneng Power
International Inc., Hong Kong-listed units of China’s two
largest electricity producers, fell today. Datang International
dropped 0.7 percent as of 2:32 p.m. local time and Huaneng Power
declined 1.2 percent. The Hang Seng index rose 0.7 percent.  Datang Renewable is seeking to post a profit of at least
405 million yuan ($61 million) this year, compared with 366.9
million yuan in 2009, the IPO  prospectus  shows. The Datang
shares were sold at 13.1 times price-to-earnings estimates for
2011.  Longyuan Power  has dropped 9.9 percent from its IPO price
last December, and is now trading at about 18.6 times for 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Xinjiang Goldwind has
declined 8.5 percent since its share sale price on Oct. 8, and
trades at 13.14 times for the same period.  Wind-Power Capacity  Hong Kong’s stock market decline led Bluestar Adisseo
Nutrition Group and China Auto Systems Technologies Ltd. to
postpone IPOs in the city in the past month.  “There are so many companies coming to the market now
looking for money that investors can be very choosy,” said
Fulbright’s Lun. “If I were considering an IPO, I would wait a
while for sentiment to improve.”  The proceeds of Datang Renewable’s share sale will be used
to expand its wind-power generating capacity and pay bank loans,
the prospectus shows. China Everbright Ltd., UBS AG, Credit
Suisse Group AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Macquarie Group Ltd.
are managing the sale.  Seven key investors have agreed to pay a total of $260
million for shares in the unit of China Datang Corp., according
to the prospectus. China Power International Holding Ltd. will
buy a $10 million stake, while Thomas Lau, brother of Hong Kong
billionaire Joseph Lau, will take a $20 million share.  Datang Renewable’s wind-power capacity may rise to 4,000
megawatts by the year-end, and increase by about 2,000 megawatts
annually in the next six years, President Hu Yongsheng said on
Dec. 6.  China wants at least 15 percent of its energy to come from
renewable sources including wind by 2020. The world’s biggest
polluter erected more wind turbines in 2009 than any other
country and may install a record 18,000 megawatts of wind-power
capacity this year, Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 