-- China Rate Caution `Positive' for Stocks, Former Golden Bull He Zhen Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-13T07:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/china-s-caution-in-raising-rates-positive-for-stocks-huili-asset-says.html
China’s decision to refrain from
increasing interest rates and to order banks to set aside larger
reserves instead will benefit stocks, a fund manager at Shanghai
Huili Asset Management Co. said.  The central bank’s lack of action “is fairly positive
news,”  He Zhen , who helps manage $301 million as general
manager at Shanghai Huili, said in an interview on Dec. 11 after
the release of economic data including a report showing the
fastest inflation in 28 months. “The central bank will be very
cautious about raising interest rates.”  He previously worked at GF Fund Management Co. in Guangzhou
and was awarded the “Golden Bull Prize” by the China
Securities Journal in 2005, Huili Asset’s  website  said. His fund
returned 17 percent that year, the website showed, compared with
the  Shanghai Composite Index ’s 8.3 percent drop.  China won’t raise rates because that would fuel fund
inflows from overseas and exacerbate inflation, He said, echoing
comments made by  Wu Xiaoling , a former deputy governor of the
central bank, at a hedge fund conference in Shanghai on Dec. 11.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  rose 2.9 percent to 2,922.95
at the 3 p.m. close, the most since Oct. 15. It fell to the
lowest in two months on Dec. 9 after the statistics bureau
brought forward the release of economic data to Dec. 11 from Dec.
13, signaling to some economists including Societe Generale SA’s
 Glenn Maguire  that a rate increase could come as early as the
weekend. Instead, the central bank boosted reserve requirements
by 50 basis points starting Dec. 20, the third increase in five
weeks, according to a statement after the market closed Dec. 10.  Data Leak  The  Shanghai gauge , the worst performer in Asia this year,
has lost 7.5 percent since reaching an almost seven-month high
on Nov. 8 on concern that monetary tightening will curb economic
growth. Stocks in the index are valued at about 16 times
estimated profit, near a two-month low.  China raised borrowing costs in October for the first time
since 2007 as inflation reached 4.4 percent that month, the most
since September 2008. November’s consumer prices rose a greater-
than-estimated 5.1 percent from a year earlier, the statistics
bureau reported on Dec. 11.  “The market has already largely digested negative factors
such as policy tightening and the 5.1 percent  inflation rate ,”
said He, who recently bought stocks of companies with large
market capitalization such as banks, developers and insurers
because of valuations. The data leaked ahead of the announcement,
with the Economic Information Daily reporting the inflation
number on Dec. 10.  Under Pressure  “The global low interest-rate environment prevents China’s
central bank from raising interest rates,” said Wu, the former
deputy central bank governor. Emerging markets face capital
inflows and “excessive money supply is one of the important
reasons for China’s inflation,” she added.  Zhou Xiaochuan , the governor of the People’s Bank of China,
said Nov. 16 China is under “pressure” from capital inflows
after the U.S. government announced a second round of
quantitative easing to boost its economy.  Investors want to see higher interest rates, according to
 Hugh Simon , co-manager of the Dreyfus Greater China Fund. Simon
likes Chinese technology, industrial and consumer stocks,
according to an interview today on Bloomberg Television. His
fund beat 96 percent of rivals last year with a 120 percent gain
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report today it would be
“fundamentally positive” if China increases both loan and
deposit rates early to curb inflation amid the potential
recovery of the U.S. economy in 2011.  Economic Conference  London-based Capital Economics Ltd. said Dec. 10 that a
rate increase after senior officials conclude an economic policy
meeting in Beijing this weekend “cannot be ruled out.”  China’s leaders pledged to change the nation’s growth model
in 2011 and also focus on stabilizing prices after the outcome
of the so-called Central Economic Work Conference yesterday,
attended by President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao . There
were no specific targets for growth, inflation or lending,
according to initial state radio reports.  Hao Hong , a Beijing-based global strategist at China
International Capital Corp., the top-ranked brokerage for China
research in Asiamoney’s annual survey, said the central bank
risks a perception of being “behind the curve” by not
increasing borrowing costs.  ‘Behind The Curve’  China’s economic data for November showed growth is
withstanding government curbs.  Industrial-output growth 
accelerated to 13.3 percent last month from a year earlier,
exceeding economists’ median estimate of 13 percent. Urban
fixed-asset investment also grew at a faster pace, climbing 24.9
percent in the first 11 months of 2010.  Retail sales  gained 18.7
percent in November from a year earlier.  “If the market does not get it this weekend, there is
likelihood that the market will perceive monetary policy is
behind the curve,” Hong said in a report on Dec. 10 after the
reserve-ratio announcement. “Investors should continue to stay
put in the near term.”  The benchmark one-year deposit rate stands at 2.5 percent,
less than the annual pace of consumer-price inflation, and the
lending rate is 5.56 percent.  “The market was worried about interest-rate increases, and
it eventually came up with a reserve-ratio increase,” said  Luo Bin , general manager at Shanghai Mingyu Xiaoyang Investment
Management Co., which manages the equivalent of $60 million.
“The market will interpret it as good news because that has
removed short-term uncertainty and interest rates won’t be
raised in the near future.”  -- Zhang Shidong ,  Allen Wan . With assistance from  Li Yanping .
Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Darren Boey .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Wan in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3041 or
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  