-- China Said to Plan for at Least $1.1 Trillion Credit Expansion Next Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-13T08:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/china-said-to-aim-for-at-least-7-trillion-yuan-of-new-bank-loans-in-2011.html
China is likely to set a target of
at least 7 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) of new loans for 2011
after leaders met to decide key economic policy objectives for
the coming year, said two people briefed on the matter.  The government also aims for 4 percent  inflation , 8 percent
economic growth and 16 percent money supply expansion for next
year, the people said, declining to be identified because the
information isn’t public. No final target for new lending has
been set and the figure may change, one person said.  A quota of more than 7 trillion yuan would exceed estimates
made by UBS AG and Bank of America Corp. in the past month,
suggesting the government may avoid stepping up a clampdown on
 lending . China moved to rein in credit this year after record
loan growth in 2009 caused inflation to quicken and home prices
to surge.  “This is a positive surprise to the market and is likely
to trigger a rebound in banking valuations,” said  Dorris Chen ,
a Shanghai-based analyst at BNP Paribas SA. “The economy needs
this amount of credit to keep existing projects running instead
of turning them into a pile of bad loans.”  The central bank has a target of 7.5 trillion yuan of new
loans for 2010, a ceiling that was almost breached in the first
11 months of the year, and has forced banks to set aside more
deposits as reserves three times in five weeks.  Officials at the State Council did not immediately respond
to a fax seeking comment, and a press officer at the People’s
Bank of China didn’t return two calls to her office.  Trust Loans  The Hang Seng Finance Index rose 0.6 percent at 3:45 p.m.
in Hong Kong. The gauge, which includes  shares  of China’s three
largest lenders, has fallen 4.9 percent in the past month.  Economists at UBS and Bank of America forecast a new-loan
quota of 6.5 trillion yuan to 7 trillion yuan for next year.
China’s leaders, including President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao , met over the weekend to discuss economic policies for
2011.  New lending for this year may be higher than official
figures suggest, or about 9 trillion yuan, when off-balance
sheet credits and short-term financing bills that get converted
into loans are included, one of the people said.  China’s banking regulator in August ordered lenders to
transfer off-balance sheet loans extended through trust firms
back onto their books by the end of 2011 and make provisions
equal to 150 percent of potential losses. The move was aimed at
curbing banks’ practice of lending proceeds from sales of wealth
management products through trust companies.  Price Stability  Inflation jumped to 5.1 percent in November and property
prices rose even as the government imposed restrictions on
mortgage lending, increasing the risk that China will have to
resort to a more abrupt  monetary tightening  next year.  The central bank held off over the weekend on an interest-
rate increase predicted by firms including UBS and Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd.  China’s leaders pledged to give a greater priority to
stabilizing prices in 2011 and to better manage  liquidity ,
Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday. Wen summarized the coming
year’s economic tasks and laid out key targets and economic
policies, the report said without elaborating on the targets.  The government will continue to use loan quotas, reserve
ratio requirements, bad-debt reserves and capital ratios to
manage loan growth and liquidity in 2011,  May Yan , a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Barclays Capital, wrote in a note to clients
today. She predicted a credit quota of 7 trillion yuan for next
year.  ‘Disorderly Fall’  Chinese banks advanced 7.45 trillion yuan of new loans in
the first 11 months of this year, taking the  outstanding amount 
to 47.4 trillion yuan as of Nov. 30. The nation’s biggest banks
stopped expanding their loan books late last month to avoid
exceeding the full-year quota, people with knowledge of the
matter said on Nov. 23.  In November 2008, China removed an annual quota for new
loans and started encouraging lending to revive the economy
during the global financial crisis. New loans soared to a record
$1.4 trillion the following year, fueling speculative property
investments that caused home prices to skyrocket.  China should raise interest rates further and impose a
property tax to curb the risk of asset bubbles and a
“disorderly fall” in home prices, according to a working paper
by the International Monetary Fund published this month.  China’s central bank has raised interest rates once since
December 2007, pushing the benchmark one-year deposit rate to
2.5 percent and the lending rate to 5.56 percent in October.
Across Asia, India has moved six times this year, Malaysia three
times and South Korea twice.  -- John Liu . Editors:  Chitra Somayaji ,  Paul Panckhurst   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Liu in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7565 or  jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  