-- China's Regulator Said to Consider Allowing Yuan Options Trading by Banks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-13T11:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/china-s-regulator-said-to-consider-allowing-yuan-options-trading-by-banks.html
China may allow yuan options trading
to help banks and companies protect their earnings from swings
in foreign-exchange rates, according to four people with
knowledge of the plan.  The  State Administration of Foreign Exchange , the nation’s
currency regulator, has asked for some banks’ opinions on the
issue, according to the people, who asked not to be identified
because the plan hasn’t been announced. Trading may start in two
months, two of the people said. Options give the buyer the
right, not the obligation, to buy or sell the currency at a
specific price on a specific date.  Policy makers, seeking to curb the fastest inflation in two
years, may allow the yuan to rise 6.2 percent by the end of
2011, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. Senate
Foreign Relations Committee Chairman John Kerry said last week
that Congress is “impatient” with the artificially low value
of China’s yuan and may impose legislation “with teeth” next
year.  “We expect increased volatility in the yuan’s exchange
rate as the foreign-exchange system is being continuously
reformed and as yuan appreciation is likely to accelerate,”
said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB
in Hong Kong. “This implies a growing need for hedging tools.”  The foreign-exchange regulator didn’t reply to three
telephone calls and a fax seeking comment. An official at the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System, which provides a platform
for yuan trading, declined to comment.  Yuan Gains  Chinese authorities last allowed a new derivative to trade
in the nation’s  interbank market  when approving currency swaps
in 2007. Derivatives are agreements whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to
specific events such as changes in interest rates.  The  People’s Bank of China  has permitted the yuan to
strengthen 2.4 percent against the dollar since scrapping a two-
year dollar peg on June 19. Inflation accelerated to 5.1 percent
last month, the fastest pace in 28 months, the statistics bureau
said on Dec. 11. China’s trade surplus was a larger-than-
expected $22.9 billion in November as  exports  rose 35 percent
from a year earlier, the customs bureau said Dec. 10.  ‘Limited Tools’  China will push forward the reform on the yuan’s exchange
rate next year, according to a  statement  on the State Council’s
website yesterday following the annual Central Economic Work
Conference, which was attended by President Hu Jintao and
Premier Wen Jiabao.  “There are very limited tools for companies to hedge
against exchange-rate risks,” said  Liu Dongliang , a Shenzhen-
based analyst at China Merchants Bank Co., the country’s sixth-
largest lender by market value. “Currently they can only use
either yuan settlements or forward contracts to protect
themselves in international trade.”  Yuan options are traded outside China between banks and the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the biggest U.S. futures market,
began trading such contracts in August 2006.  Shares of  Citic Pacific Ltd. , an arm of China’s biggest
state-owned investment company, slumped 55 percent on Oct. 21,
2008 after it announced HK$14.7 billion ($1.9 billion) of
potential losses from the foreign-exchange derivatives trades.  Implied Volatility  Chinese regulators have taken steps to help companies guard
against risks in financial products after U.S. credit-related
derivatives triggered the global crisis. Li Fuan, head of
banking innovation department of the China Banking Regulatory
Commission, said China will “soon” publish new regulations on
banks’ derivative businesses, the Shanghai Securities News
 reported  on Nov. 19.  One-month implied volatility on the yuan against the
dollar, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options,
has risen to 3.75 percent, from 0.45 percent at the start of the
year. The currency weakened 0.17 percent today to 6.6670 per
dollar, after gaining 0.12 percent last week.  The dollar’s one-year, 25-delta risk-reversal rate against
the yuan was a negative 0.48 percentage point, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A negative reading indicates there’s more
demand for yuan calls, or the right to buy the currency, than
puts, or the option to sell the currency.  China is promoting greater use of its currency in global
finance and trade to reduce reliance on the U.S. dollar. In
November, the central bank started allowing the yuan to trade
against the Russian ruble in the interbank market.  -- John Liu . Editors:  Sandy Hendry ,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Liu in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7565 or
 jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 