-- China's Stocks Jump Most in Two Months on Economic Reports, Rate Caution
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-13T07:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/china-s-stocks-advance-on-economic-reports-central-bank-s-rate-restraint.html
China’s stocks  rose, pushing up the
benchmark index by the most in two months, after the central
bank refrained from increasing interest rates and government
reports showed the economy is withstanding tightening policies.  PetroChina Co. and  Jiangxi Copper Co.  led an advance for
commodity stocks after China International Capital Corp. said
material companies benefit from a faster inflation environment.
 Poly Real Estate Group Co.  gained most in two weeks after the
central bank ordered banks to set aside more reserves instead of
increasing borrowing costs as had been speculated by investors.
 Offshore Oil Engineering Co.  and China Oilfield Services Ltd.
jumped the 10 percent daily cap as the Shanghai Securities News
said ocean engineering will be included in a development plan.  The decision not to boost rates “is fairly positive
news,” said  He Zhen , who helps manage $301 million at Shanghai
Huili Asset Management Co. “The central bank will be very
cautious about raising interest rates.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, advanced 81.91, or 2.9 percent, to
2,922.95 at the 3 p.m. close, the biggest gain since Oct. 15.
The  CSI 300 Index  added 3.1 percent to 3,261.06.  The Shanghai gauge has lost 7.5 percent since reaching an
almost seven-month high on Nov. 8 on concern that monetary
tightening will curb economic growth. The measure is down 11
percent this year, Asia’s worst performer, as the central bank
last month twice ordered banks to set aside larger reserves
after raising rates in October, the first increase since 2007.  No ‘Major Correction’  Measures of energy and material stocks jumped 5.4 percent
and 4.4 percent respectively, the second- and third-biggest
gains among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups.  PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil company, climbed 4.4
percent to 11.95 yuan. Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer
of the metal, surged the maximum 10 percent to 41.42 yuan.
 Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co. , the second biggest,
advanced 8.6 percent to 30.84 yuan.  Material companies outperform because the supply of basic
materials is limited while demand is inelastic,  Hao Hong , a
Beijing-based CICC global equity strategist, wrote in a report
today. China’s stocks aren’t likely to have a “major
correction” in the short term, as November economic data erased
concerns about economic growth, CICC analysts including  Hou Zhenhai  wrote in a separate note.  The data showed the economy is withstanding government
curbs.  Industrial-output growth  accelerated to 13.3 percent last
month from a year earlier, exceeding economists’ median estimate
of 13 percent. Urban fixed-asset investment also grew at a
faster pace, climbing 24.9 percent in the first 11 months of
2010.  Retail sales  gained 18.7 percent in November.  Rate Outlook  So-called cyclical stocks with large and medium
capitalizations such as non-ferrous metal producers and
financial companies will rebound if the central bank doesn’t
raise rates by the end of the year, CICC said in the report.  A gauge of property stocks advanced 3.2 percent today. Poly
Real Estate, China’s second-largest developer by market value,
gained 4.5 percent to 12.59 yuan.  China Vanke Co. , the biggest,
climbed 3.7 percent to 8.40 yuan. Gemdale Corp., the fourth
biggest, rose 2.4 percent to 5.94 yuan.  Consumer prices rose a more-than-forecast 5.1 percent from
a year earlier, a statistics bureau report showed over the
weekend. Producer-price inflation was 6.1 percent, higher than
any of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had estimated.  The statistics bureau brought forward the release of
economic data to Dec. 11 from Dec. 13, signaling to some
economists including Societe Generale SA’s  Glenn Maguire  that a
rate increase could come as early as the weekend. Instead, the
central bank boosted reserve requirements by 50 basis points
starting Dec. 20, the third increase in five weeks.  Oil Equipment  “It’s a sensible policy move by regulators, and some
short-term strong medicine will prevent a more serious bubble
bursting later,” according to  Sandy Mehta , Hong Kong-based
chief investment officer for Value Investment Principals.  China won’t raise rates because that would fuel fund
inflows from overseas and exacerbate inflation, Huili Asset’s He
said, echoing comments made by  Wu Xiaoling , a former deputy
governor of the central bank, at a hedge fund conference in
Shanghai on Dec. 11.  Offshore Oil, the drilling unit of the nation’s largest
offshore oil producer, jumped 10 percent to 7.95 yuan. China
Oilfield, which has the same parent as Offshore Oil, climbed 10
percent to 24.74 yuan, the highest since May 2008.  China may announce a five-year development plan for the
nation’s advanced manufacturing equipment industry that includes
aviation, aerospace, high-speed rail, ocean engineering and
intelligent equipment, Shanghai Securities News reported today,
citing an unidentified person who helped draft the plan.  Rate Increase Positive  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said it would be “fundamentally
positive” if China increases both loan and deposit rates early
to curb inflation amid the potential recovery of the U.S.
economy in 2011.  Investors want to see higher interest rates, according to
 Hugh Simon , co-manager of the Dreyfus Greater China Fund. Simon
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television he likes Chinese
technology, industrial and consumer stocks.  -- Zhang Shidong . With assistance from  Susan Li . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  