-- Miliband Urges Liberal Democrats to Leave Cameron, Work With Labour Party
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2010-12-13T12:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/coalition-is-rock-solid-clegg-strong-liberal-democrat-alexander-says.html
Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband 
urged Liberal Democrat lawmakers disenchanted by their role in
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative-led coalition
to stop backing the government and work with the opposition.  Twenty-one of the 57 Liberal Democrat lawmakers voted Dec.
9 against letting universities triple tuition fees, breaking
ranks with the party’s ministers. The Liberal Democrats pledged
before the May 6 election to oppose higher fees. Student
protests in central London turned violent after Parliament
passed the measure by 21 votes.  Within the Liberal Democrats, “many people are deeply
frustrated and even ashamed at the way their progressive
tradition has been hijacked by the coalition,” Miliband told a
news conference in London today. “I invite them to work with us
against the direction this government is taking Britain.”  The Liberal Democrats’ president-elect,  Tim Farron , one of
the lawmakers who opposed the increase in fees, rejected
Miliband’s overtures.  “As part of the coalition government, Liberal Democrats
have started fixing Labour’s economic mess, taking millions of
people out of income tax and reforming British politics,”
Farron said in an e-mailed statement. “Continuing that work is
something far more attractive to Liberal Democrats than helping
Ed Miliband’s increasingly desperate attempts to work out what
he actually stands for.”  ‘Rock Solid’  Senior Liberal Democrat ministers said yesterday the
coalition would survive the split over fees and a slump in the
party’s support as they rallied behind their leader,  Nick Clegg ,
the deputy prime minister.  The chief secretary to the Treasury,  Danny Alexander , said
the coalition is “rock solid” and would serve its full-five
year term. He dismissed talk of a leadership challenge to Clegg.
Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  said he believed Clegg would lead
the party into the next general election, scheduled for 2015.  A  YouGov Plc poll  for the Sunday Times newspaper published
yesterday showed Liberal Democrat support at 9 percent, down
from 23 percent in the election. Labour was on 42 percent,
2 percentage points ahead of the Conservatives. YouGov
questioned 1,937 voters on Dec. 9 and 10.  “The Liberal Democrats’ reputation for standing for a new,
more honest, promise-keeping style of politics has been
destroyed by its U-turn over tuition fees,” YouGov President
 Peter Kellner  said in an e-mailed statement today.  An Ipsos Mori poll for the News of the World newspaper
showed 25 percent of voters trust Clegg, down from 66 percent in
April. Ipsos Mori interviewed 809 adults Dec. 9-10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eddie Buckle  in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  