-- Colleges Expanding Shariah Courses Amid Scholar Shortage: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 2010-12-14T07:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/colleges-expanding-shariah-courses-amid-scholar-shortage-islamic-finance.html
Universities are expanding Islamic
finance courses as demand for professionals qualified in Shariah
law outstrips supply in the $1 trillion industry.  The  International Islamic University of Malaysia  plans to
start postgraduate courses specializing in Shariah-compliant
capital markets, banking and insurance after enrollment for its
general program in finance complying with Muslim tenets tripled
in the past year, said Professor Mohd Azmi Omar, the dean of the
institute.  La Trobe University in Melbourne , which started
classes this year, is working with officials in Malaysia to
offer industry-recognized qualifications.  A lack of skills is among the biggest challenges for the
expansion of global Islamic banking, said Washington-based
Patrick Imam, an economist at the  International Monetary Fund.
About 50,000 professionals will be needed over the next five to
seven years to meet demand, according to Ishaq Bhatti, the
director of La Trobe’s Islamic banking and finance program.  “There are very few people who are really good at both
finance and the interpretation of Shariah law,” Imam said in an
e-mailed reply to questions on Dec. 10. “To do Islamic banking
you must be fluent in finance and Islamic principles, and
typically they are either one or the other.”  Industry Standards  The Islamic finance industry, with assets the Kuala Lumpur-
based Islamic Financial Services Board estimates will climb to
$1.6 trillion by 2012, is developing global standards to improve
regulations. The Manama, Bahrain-based  Accounting & Auditing
Organization for Islamic Financial Institutions  said a shortage
of scholars increases the risk of conflicts of interest as many
sit on various advisory boards.  Sheikh Nizam Yaquby  of Bahrain and Syria’s  Abdul Sattar Abu Ghuddah , who each serve on 85 boards of Islamic financial
institutions, ranked first among the top 20 religious experts in
an October report from Zawya, an online Middle East business
news and directory, and Funds@Work AG, a Kronberg, Germany-based
consulting company.  Experts are preparing the first standardized certification
for scholars. A permanent committee is due to be selected by
year-end to work on setting up a body to issue permits for those
qualified to sit on Shariah boards,  Aznan Hasan , the president
of the oversight committee, said in an Aug. 30 interview in
Kuala Lumpur.  “You could see the hunger and the thirst for Islamic
finance when we first announced this program in July 2009,” La
Trobe’s Bhatti said in an interview on Oct. 28 in Kuala Lumpur.
“Initially, we thought 100 people were going to register, then
we started getting very high-profile requests from governments
and the industry, so we increased it to 200.”  Thailand, Senegal  Thailand, Senegal and Sudan are among countries seeking to
tap the wealth of the world’s 1.6 billion Muslims by selling
Islamic bonds, which are vetted by scholars for compliance with
Shariah law.  Global sales of sukuk, which pay returns based on asset
flows to comply with the religion’s ban on interest, fell 28
percent this year to $14.5 billion from the same period in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance reached a
record $31 billion in 2007.  Shariah-compliant bonds returned 12 percent in 2010, the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index  shows, while debt in
emerging markets gained 13 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  Malaysia Yields  The  difference  between the average yield for sukuk in
developing nations and the London interbank offered rate has
narrowed 160 basis points, or 1.6 percentage point, to 308 this
year, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent sukuk maturing in
June 2015 was little changed today at 3.06 percent, according to
prices from the Royal Bank of Scotland Group. The extra yield
investors demand to hold Dubai’s government sukuk rather than
Malaysia’s was also little changed at 342, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The U.K.’s  Durham University ,  Al-Azhar  University in Cairo
and  Ethica Institute of Islamic Finance  in Dubai also offer
Islamic finance courses. Harvard University in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, runs an  Islamic legal studies  program through its
law school, according to data on its website.  Durham University  Schools and colleges are facing a shortage of teaching
staff for Islamic finance courses as demand increases, said
Professor  Rodney Wilson , a lecturer at the Centre for Middle
East and Islamic Studies at Durham University.  “We need to appoint more staff” as Durham only has four
lecturers for the classes, Wilson, who is based in London, said
in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  La Trobe University is working with Malaysia’s Kuala
Lumpur-based  International Centre for Education in Islamic
Finance  to gain approval to provide the Chartered Islamic
Finance Professionals certification, said Bhatti.  The Institute of Islamic Banking and Finance at the IIUM
will start a Masters in Islamic capital markets in September
2011 in conjunction with the Malaysian Securities Commission,
the institute’s dean said in an interview on Dec. 6.  “We have bankers, lawyers and fresh graduates attending
our classes,” said Mohd Azmi, who also teaches Islamic capital
markets at  Trisakti University  in Jakarta, Indonesia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Suryani Omar in Singapore at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  