-- Columbia's Expansion Allowed by U.S. Supreme Court in Eminent Domain Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-12-13T20:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/columbia-s-expansion-allowed-by-u-s-supreme-court-in-eminent-domain-case.html
Columbia University can move ahead
with plans for a $6.3 billion expansion of its Manhattan campus
after the  U.S. Supreme Court  rejected an appeal by neighboring
businesses whose property may be taken over by eminent domain.  The justices today refused to question findings by a state
development agency, Empire State Development Corp., that the
area is blighted and that the Columbia expansion has a
legitimate public purpose. The New York Court of Appeals, the
state’s highest court,  upheld  the plan in June.  The property owners argued unsuccessfully in their Supreme
Court appeal that the process was fraught with favoritism,
violating their constitutional property rights. “ESDC worked
backward, pre-ordaining Columbia as the beneficiary of its
eminent domain power,” the appeal said.  In rejecting the appeal, the justices declined to revisit
aspects of their 2005 ruling that said local governments can
constitutionally take property as part of an economic
development plan.  The 17-acre site, in the Manhattanville section of West
Harlem, is less than a mile from Columbia’s main campus in New
York City’s Morningside Heights section. It will add more than
6.8 million square feet to the university, including a new
business school and science facilities.  The plan was challenged by the owners of four self-storage
facilities and two gas stations that would be razed.  ‘Extremely Disappointed’  The attorney for Tuck-It-Away storage, Norman Siegel, said
he will study the Supreme Court rules and may ask the court to
reconsider its position.  “We’re extremely disappointed that the Supreme Court of
the United States decided not to hear this important eminent
domain case,” Siegel said in a phone interview. “The court of
appeals decision is a terrible precedent regarding eminent
domain and the rights of property owners in New York.”  President  Lee Bollinger  of Columbia said in an e-mail
statement that the university project “will be a vibrant center
for a new level of intellectual and civic engagement for both
our university and our community.”  The Empire State Development Corporation urged the Supreme
Court not to hear the property owners’ appeal. The agency has
said the project will create 14,000 construction jobs over 25
years and 6,000 university positions.  ‘Significant Step’  “This victory represents a significant step toward
achieving the many goals of the project, including strengthening
New York as an international center for premier education and
academic research programs,” the development corporation said
in an e-mailed statement.  The first phase of the project, scheduled to be completed
in 2015, will include a science center and new homes for
Columbia’s business, arts and international and public affairs
schools. Later phases are expected to be completed around 2030,
according to the university’s website.  The rebuff marks the second time in less than three years
that the nation’s highest court has refused to question a
multibillion-dollar New York City project. The justices in 2008
rejected an appeal by property owners objecting to the Atlantic
Yards project in Brooklyn that will include a new sports arena.  The case is Tuck-It-Away v. New York State Urban
Development Corp., 10-402.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 