-- Contango Reverses With Crude Near $90: Energy Markets
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2010-12-14T22:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/contango-reverses-as-oil-producers-sell-near-90-a-barrel-energy-markets.html
(Corrects attribution in second paragraph of story that ran
yesterday.)  Oil producers increased sales for
the first time in four weeks to lock in profits near $90 a
barrel, reversing a two-year contango and raising speculation
that stockpiles will decline.  Producers and merchants  increased so-called net-short
positions in crude futures and options by 13 percent in the week
ended Dec. 7, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s said in
its Commitments of Traders report. Producers sell futures to
secure prices for output from their wells. It was the second-
largest set of sales in two years.  Hedging oil for future delivery pressured the longest-
maturity contracts, erasing the contango, or premium paid for
later shipments. Hedge funds exaggerated the move as oil for
delivery in December 2011 began trading at a premium to December
2012 for the first time since the week Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. declared bankruptcy in September 2008.  “Producers looked at prices at $90 and said they’ll take
some of that,” said  Adam Sieminski , Deutsche Bank AG’s chief
energy economist in Washington. “Hedge funds say, ‘We’re at
$90, OPEC doesn’t seem to care and the markets are getting
tighter.’”  Oil for delivery in December 2011 settled at $90.14 a
barrel on Dec. 3, 93 cents higher than the future for December
2012, which closed at $89.21 on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. The premium widened to a record $1.50 on Dec. 6.
January delivery crude advanced 82 cents, or 0.9 percent, to
settle at $88.61 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  Short Positions  Net-short positions held by producers and merchants reached
a two-year low the week-ended Nov. 30 before the increased sales
expanded their net-short position to 153,992 futures and options
combined the week ended Dec. 7. It was the largest advance in
net-short positions since the seven days ended Oct. 26, which
was the biggest sell-off in two years.  “The increase in producer and merchant net-short positions
confirms that producer hedging, selling forward, was a key
driver in the flattening of the crude forward curves in the last
week,” said  Michael Wittner , New York-based head of oil market
research at Societe Generale SA.  Hedge funds and other large speculators increased bullish
bets by the most in nine weeks, boosting so-called net-long
positions, or wagers that prices will climb, by 26 percent, the
CFTC report showed.  OPEC Meeting  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
produces about 40 percent of the world’s supplies, decided at a
meeting Dec. 11 in Quito, Ecuador, to maintain current oil
production quotas.  The group, which next meets in June, hasn’t altered its
formal limit since December 2008, when it announced record
supply cuts and a quota of 24.845 million barrels a day. OPEC
has breached its production quotas this year by an average of
1.934 million barrels a day, the most in six years.  The current price relationship, known as backwardation,
provides an incentive for traders to liquidate stockpiles, said
 Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. In
a contango market, traders cover the cost of transportation,
insurance and storage at the delivery point for New York futures
in Cushing, Oklahoma, by selling crude for future delivery at a
premium to today’s price. As the curve reverses, that becomes
impossible, he said.  “There’s no offsetting contango for the leaseholders who
have to pay monthly storage rates in Cushing,” Lipow said. “As
a result, you would expect that Cushing inventories starting in
the new year will be liquidated.”  Petroleum Inventories  U.S. inventories  declined more than forecast last week,
falling by 3.82 million barrels to 355.9 million. Supplies were
forecast to decrease 1.4 million, according to the median
estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Total U.S.  petroleum stocks , including diesel, gasoline and
crude, declined 43 million barrels to 1.101 billion since
reaching a record high in the week ended Sept. 17, according to
an Energy Department report on Dec. 8.  “The most bullish thing for oil is you look at the demand
forecasts,” Lipow said. Outlooks for U.S. and worldwide demand
have increased, he said.  The International Energy Agency boosted its 2011 global
demand forecast in its monthly Oil Market Report on Dec. 10.
Crude use worldwide will average 88.8 million barrels a day next
year, up 1.6 percent from this year and about 260,000 barrels
more than it projected in November.  U.S. demand will climb 2 percent to 19.18 million barrels a
day next year, according to the Paris-based adviser to oil-
consuming countries.  Hedge Funds  Managed money, including hedge funds, commodity pools and
commodity-trading advisers, increased  net-long positions  by
42,603 futures and options combined to 206,807 the week ended
Dec. 7, according to the CFTC report.  In other markets,  net-long  positions in futures and options
combined in four natural-gas contracts rose 28,920.8 futures
equivalents, or 40 percent, to 100,567.8 in the week ended Dec.
7, the highest level since August, the CFTC report showed.  The measure of net longs includes an index of four
contracts adjusted to futures equivalents: Nymex natural gas
futures, Nymex Henry Hub Swaps, Nymex Henry Hub Penultimate
Swaps and ICE Henry Hub Swaps. Henry Hub, in Erath, Louisiana,
is the delivery point for Nymex futures, a benchmark price for
the fuel.  Managed money’s bullish, or long, bets on  gasoline  rose 4.6
percent, the fifth weekly increase, to 68,434 futures and
options combined, the CFTC data showed. Net-long bets on  heating
oil  rose 56 percent, or 15,249 futures and options combined, to
42,487.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Asjylyn Loder  in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  