-- Corn, Soybeans Advance in Chicago on China Rates, Optimism Over Recovery
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-12-13T20:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/corn-soybeans-advance-in-chicago-on-china-rates-optimism-over-recovery.html
Corn futures rose to a one-month
high and soybeans climbed after China refrained from increasing
interest rates, boosting demand for commodities.  Raw materials eased last week on speculation that China
would boost borrowing costs over the weekend amid accelerating
inflation. The central bank had boosted the reserve ratio for
lenders for the third time in five weeks. An international gauge
of economic expansion rose to the highest in four months in
October.  “The buying today is directly tied to China not raising
rates as they wait to see if earlier actions slow speculation
and price inflation,” said  Greg Grow , the director of
agribusiness for Archer Financial Services Inc. in Chicago.
“Most commodities are catching a bid on perceptions that global
demand will improve.”  Corn futures for March delivery rose 14.25 cents, or 2.5
percent, to close at $5.885 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade, after reaching $5.89, the highest for a most-
active contract since Nov. 10.  Soybean futures for January delivery gained 29.5 cents, or
2.3 percent, to close at $13.025 a bushel in Chicago, the
biggest gain since Dec. 1. Earlier, the price touched $13.0475,
the highest in a week.  Commodities Rally  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
had the biggest gain in more than a week. Hedge funds and large
speculators increased their  bets  on a commodity rally to the
highest level since at least 2006 in the week ended Dec. 7, as
copper and gold rose to records, data from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show.  China is the world’s biggest soybean consumer and became a
net importer of corn in the 12 months ended Sept. 30 for the
first time in 14 years, U.S. Department of Agriculture data
show.  Higher commodity prices will be needed to slow U.S.
consumption “to make room for further Chinese demand,” Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said today in a report.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $48.6 billion in
2009, followed by soybeans at $31.8 billion, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  