-- Covered Bonds May Save Australian Banks 40% as Swan Pledges to Revoke Ban
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   L i s a   P h a m
-- 2010-12-14T06:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/covered-bonds-may-save-australian-banks-40-as-swan-pledges-to-revoke-ban.html
Australia’s four biggest banks may
cut their borrowing costs by as much as 40 percent selling
covered bonds after European lenders pushed sales of the asset-
backed debt to a record.  Westpac Banking Corp., Commonwealth Bank of Australia,
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and National
Australia Bank Ltd. may be able to issue three-year covered
bonds priced to yield about 50 basis points more than the bank
bill swap rate, less than the 85 basis-point spread on senior
debt, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. Moody’s
Investors Service estimates savings of 20 percent.  The Australian government will amend the law to let
financiers issue the securities for the first time, Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  said Dec. 12 as he announced an overhaul  package 
aimed at spurring competition in the banking industry. Global
sales of the securities, including Pfandbriefe, as they are
known in Germany, surged 33 percent to a record 329 billion
euros ($435 billion) in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, as investors seek the relative safety of debt backed
by both the issuer and an underlying pool of assets.  Covered bonds are “essential weapons as banks look for
cheaper and more diversified sources of funding,”  John Manning ,
a credit analyst at RBS in Sydney, said in a telephone interview.
Even when global credit markets seized up, European banks “had
good access to covered bond markets and were able to access the
funding they required at quite commercially acceptable rates,”
he said.  Balance Sheet  The securities typically get higher credit ratings and pay
less interest because they’re backed by assets such as mortgages
that stay on the lender’s balance sheet and that can be sold in
the event of a default. Australian lenders are barred from
selling them because they conflict with local laws stating that
depositors’ interests should come ahead of creditors’.  Investors in Europe demand 178 basis points of extra yield
to hold covered bonds instead of government debt, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU Covered Bonds index. Spreads
average 238 basis points, or 2.38 percentage points, on the
region’s financial debt, a separate index shows.  Australia’s government will release draft amendments to the
Banking Act to allow the sale of covered securities during the
first sitting of Parliament next year, according to a federal
document detailing the  planned  changes.  ‘Safety and Sustainability’  Allowing covered bonds will help “secure the long-term
safety and sustainability” of Australia’s banking system, the
document states. The Treasury may impose a cap on the amount of
covered bonds each bank can sell, “for example five percent of
an issuer’s total Australian assets,” it said.  Limiting sales to that amount would allow for about A$100
billion ($99 billion) of covered bond issuance in total, Sydney-
based Deutsche Bank AG analysts  Gus Medeiros  and  Colin Tan  wrote
in a report to clients yesterday.  The first sale of covered notes in New Zealand, a NZ$425
million ($319 million) offering by Bank of New Zealand in June,
was priced at a 38 percent discount to what the nation’s banks
would otherwise get, Moody’s said in a report at the time.  Cameron Clyne , chief executive officer of National
Australia Bank, said yesterday his bank plans to sell A$28
billion of bonds in the year ending September 2011, and would be
able to cut costs if some of that debt was covered.  Default Swaps Fall  Credit-default swaps protecting against a default on the
senior debt of the four biggest lenders fell 2 basis points to
106 basis points as of 2:12 p.m. in Sydney, according to Nomura
Holdings Inc. That’s the lowest in three weeks, according to
prices from data provider CMA.  ANZ Bank  shares  dropped 0.6 percent to A$23.95 at the 4:10
p.m. close of trading in Sydney, while Commonwealth Bank fell
1.1 percent. Westpac rose 0.4 percent and National Australia
Bank declined 0.2 percent.  Australia’s four biggest banks may need to raise as much as
A$130 billion from bonds in 2011, with the majority issued in
offshore markets, according to Nomura Australia Ltd. credit
analyst  Ben Byrne .  Australia’s banks were able to issue three-year debt at a
spread of about 50 basis points more than government bonds until
mid-2007, the Reserve Bank of Australia wrote in a Nov. 30
 submission  to a Senate inquiry into banking competition. The
spread for domestic sales peaked at about 220 basis points amid
the global credit freeze of late 2008 and is now at about 120
basis points, according to the RBA.  ‘New Equilibrium’  “No one is sure how long bank funding costs will remain
elevated,” Westpac wrote in its  submission  to the inquiry. “We
expect those costs to eventually settle at a new equilibrium,
lower than current levels, but certainly more expensive than
before the crisis began.”  Being able to issue covered debt “would strengthen the
banks’ funding positions as covered bonds provide access to a
broader class of investors,” the lender stated.  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce  raised A$750 million in
October in the first sale of Australian dollar-denominated
covered bonds since the start of the credit crisis in 2007.
Australian laws don’t bar overseas banks from issuing the notes.  CIBC’s 5.75 percent securities due December 2013 were
priced to yield 91.25 basis points more than similar-maturity
government debt, according to a statement at the time. The
spread has since narrowed to 87 basis points, according to ANZ
Bank prices on Bloomberg.  RBS’s Manning said his estimate of the costs for Australian
banks issuing covered bonds was based on the CIBC sale. Covered
bonds will probably be about 20 percent cheaper for Australian
banks to issue compared with senior unsecured debt, Jennifer Wu,
a senior analyst at Moody’s, said in a phone interview yesterday.  Government Guarantee  Top-rated covered securities would help attract investors
who bought AAA rated government-guaranteed bank debt under a
program introduced after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008, according to  Patrick Winsbury , Sydney-
based senior vice president at Moody’s.  The biggest banks were the heaviest users of the program,
and would benefit most from being able to market debt with the
highest ratings as they seek to refinance guaranteed bonds,
Winsbury said in a phone interview yesterday.  Australia guaranteed A$144.9 billion of bank debt under the
guarantee arrangement as of October, according to information on
a federal  website .  Lower-rated, smaller Australian lenders are unlikely to
benefit as much as the main banks from legislation allowing
covered bonds, as it is “highly unlikely” they will  be able
to secure AAA credit ratings, said  Mark Bayley , a Sydney-based
credit strategist with advisory company Aquasia Ltd.  “A covered bond market is actually more likely to decrease
competition within the Australian lending market,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 