-- U.S. Credit-Default Swaps Decline in Longest Stretch Since November 2009
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-12-13T21:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/credit-default-swaps-fall-in-longest-streak-since-november-2009.html
The cost of protecting bonds from
default in the U.S. fell for a ninth trading day, the longest
streak in 13 months, as Federal Reserve spending to stimulate
the economy encourages investors to embrace credit risk.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 0.7 basis point to a
mid-price of 86.6 basis points as of 4:37 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  “It’s a continuation of the risk-on trade,” said  David Withrow , head of taxable fixed income at Fifth Third Asset
Management in Cincinnati. “With the Fed propping up the
economy, the market has room to roll.”  The credit swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, has dropped
from 99.4 at the end of November as Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said the central bank may boost purchases of debt. The gauge has
further declined on speculation that President  Barack Obama ’s
extension of his predecessor  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts will help
spur economic growth and investors wager Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis will be contained.  “With the deal to extend the Bush tax cuts fueling the
rally, and, in turn, entirely displacing the sovereign story
from the headlines, markets are poised to continue their grind
tighter, especially as we head into the holidays,”  Michael Reiner , a New York-based credit strategist with Societe
Generale, said today in an e-mailed note.  ‘Pretty Fast’  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The index last declined for nine consecutive business days
in the period ended Nov. 16, 2009, Markit data show. Today it
fell as low as 85.5, the lowest since April 15. Its current
level is the lowest since Nov. 5.  “We’ve come a long way pretty fast,” Withrow said.
Negative news would probably spur a retracement, he said.
“There’s a lot of positive information baked into the markets
right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  