-- Crude Rises as China Imports More Oil, Increases Refining Rates to Record
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2010-12-13T13:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/crude-rises-as-china-imports-more-oil-increases-refining-rates-to-record.html
Crude advanced after a government
report showed Chinese refineries ran at record rates last month,
signaling oil demand will continue to increase in the world’s
largest energy user.  Futures gained as much as 1.5 percent, rising with global
equity markets. China’s refiners increased  crude processing  to a
record in November, according to the China Mainland Marketing
Research Co., which compiles data for the National Bureau of
Statistics. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
maintained production quotas at a Dec. 11 meeting.  “We could be heading for a year-end rally, as the general
outlook is good,” said Roland Stenzel, a crude-oil trader at
E&T Energie Handelsgesellschaft mbH in Vienna. “Fundamentals
from Asia are much better than the U.S.”  The January contract rose as much as $1.35, or 1.5 percent,
to $89.14 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange and
traded at $89.09 at 1 p.m. London time. The contract fell 1.6
percent last week and has risen 12 percent this year. Brent
crude for January settlement climbed as much as $1.61, or 1.8
percent, to $92.09 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London. Brent has gained 18 percent this year.  China, which last year overtook the U.S. as the world’s
biggest energy user, boosted net imports of crude by 26 percent
in November from a month earlier as refineries ramped up
processing rates to ease a diesel shortage. Net purchases were
20.3 million metric tons, or 5 million barrels a day, the
highest since September’s record 22.9 million tons, data from
the Beijing-based General Administration of Customs showed.  Refining Rates  Refineries processed 36.65 million metric tons in November,
or 8.96 million barrels a day. That exceeded the record of 8.76
million barrels a day in October.  Crude also gained as China held off raising interest rates,
opting to increase reserve requirements for the country’s banks
for the third time in five weeks. Chinese inflation accelerated
to 5.1 percent in November, the fastest pace in 28 months.  China’s decision to maintain rates “is likely to continue
to support the crude oil market,”  Filip Petersson , a Stockholm-
based commodities strategist at SEB AB, wrote in a note today.
“Confidence is growing that the Chinese economy is healthy and
that authorities will be able to control it using other measures
than interest rate hikes and thus avoid a hard landing.”  Global oil demand has exceeded supply by more than 900,000
barrels a day on a seasonally adjusted basis since May, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said in an e-mailed report today. Goldman
expects the world oil market to remain in deficit in the first
half of next year, it said.  Structural Bull Market  “As OPEC spare capacity is drawn down through the second
half of 2011, we expect the market to begin to transition back
to a structural bull market, with WTI crude oil prices rising
back above $100 a barrel,”  Jeffrey Currie , London-based head of
commodities research, wrote.  Crude will average $100 a barrel in 2011 and $110 a barrel
in 2012, according to Goldman estimates.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators  increased 
their net-long position in crude-oil futures and options in the
week ended Dec. 7, according to Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data. Managed-money bets that prices will rise
outnumbered short positions by 206,807 futures, the Washington-
based regulator said in its weekly Commitments of Traders
report. Net long positions rose by 42,603 contracts, or 25.95
percent, from a week earlier.  Producers and merchants increased net-short positions by 13
percent in the week ended Dec. 7, according to the CFTC report.
Sales increased for the first time in four weeks as producers
secured profits near $90 a barrel, reversing a two-year contango
and raising speculation that stockpiles will decline.  OPEC maintained its output quotas, forecasting demand
growth will slow as the global economy struggles to recover amid
ample supplies.  Oil supply and demand are “in balance,” and $70 to $80 is
“a good price” for oil, Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al- Naimi  said at the group’s meeting in Quito, Ecuador, on Dec. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  