-- Dad's Greed Costs Heisman Winning Son a Hug: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-12-13T02:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/dad-s-greed-costs-heisman-winning-son-a-hug-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Never before in its 75-year history
has the  Heisman Trophy’s  still-life imagery been more
appropriate. More than anything else, it’s a rendering of
avoidance.  The 45-pound bronze statue shows a football player side-
stepping and straight-arming an unseen foe. It’s just so
perfect.  Cam Newton ’s father tried to side-step National Collegiate
Athletic Association rules and, on Saturday night, when his son
accepted college football’s most prestigious honor, when a
little kid’s dream came true, the proud dad chose to stay at
arm’s length from the celebration. Avoidance.  There are only so-many Kodak moments in life, the kind that
result in framed photos that spark smiles even years later.
Cecil Newton robbed his son, and himself, of this one. No amount
of money is worth it, not even $200,000, which is the reported
asking price for a multitalented quarterback who can deliver 20
rushing touchdowns, 28 passing touchdowns, a No. 1 ranking and a
shot at the national championship.  Technically, Cecil Newton could have attended the ceremony
in Manhattan, where his 6-foot-6, 250-pound son won the award in
a landslide. He was invited by the Heisman Trophy Trust of New
York City, which has already recalled one of its trophies
because, thank you  Reggie Bush , a player and his family skirted
the rules.  Deep down, though, Cecil Newton knew he couldn’t share in
the moment, not without overshadowing his son, not with the NCAA
having fingered the father as the mastermind of a pay-for-play
scheme that engulfed the Auburn football program for much of the
season.  ‘Sacred Moment  “So that my son Cam Newton can receive all the honors and
congratulations that he has worked so hard to accomplish without
distraction, I have decided not to be in attendance as it will
perhaps rob Cam and the event of a sacred moment,” the elder
Newton last week said in a statement distributed by his
attorney.  If only Cecil Newton gave a moment’s thought to sacred
moments instead of sacks of cash before trying to turn his son
into a payday. Couldn’t he wait for the National Football League
contract that surely awaits his gifted son, who, according to
the facts gathered by the NCAA thus far, had no role in the
scandal and no knowledge of it?  “I’d be sitting up here lying to you if I didn’t say it
hurt,” Cam Newton said when asked about his father’s absence.
“This is a once-in-a-lifetime experience. I love my father. I
know he’s with me in spirit.”  Ask  Tiger Woods  about the value of a father’s embrace. Few
who witnessed it will ever forget the  bear hug  applied by  Earl Woods  after his son won his first Masters Tournament, and first
major, in 1997.  Ask What It Means  Ask  Graeme McDowell  about what it meant to have his father
alongside the 18th green when he won this year’s U.S. Open at
Pebble Beach. On Father’s Day no less.  “It was pretty amazing,” McDowell said afterward.
“Seeing him, and giving me a hug, he was crying. It was one of
the coolest moments of my life.”  Guess Cecil Newton wasn’t watching.  Take it from someone who has covered too many National
Basketball Association drafts to count: seeing fathers and sons
trade handshakes, high-fives and hugs never gets old. You can
bet that neither of them is thinking about the money at that
moment.  To hear NBA Commissioner  David Stern   call your name  is the
culmination of years of practice making perfect. Those hugs are
the recognition and culmination of countless back-yard games of
catch, of television tutorials and chauffeured trips to and from
one practice or another.  They’re born of dinner-table conversations about bounce
passes, blind-side blitzes and game-winning catches in the Super
Bowl.  Father and Son  At the 2009 Super Bowl in Tampa, Florida, I sat in front of
Larry Fitzgerald Sr., the Minnesota Spokesman-Recorder
sportswriter who has covered every NFL championship game since
1981. Only this one was different. His son was playing for the
Arizona Cardinals. Junior caught a pass late in the fourth
quarter and zoomed toward the end zone. I looked back at dad,
who tried his darnedest to comply with the code that says
there’s no cheering in the press box.  The Cardinals lost. The Fitzgeralds, based on their post-
game embrace, won. Won big.  Cam Newton got a trophy the other night. He missed out on a
handshake, high five or hug from his father. A memory missed, a
moment wasted. A photograph that will never hang in the Newton
home.  That makes it so hard to declare the kid the winner.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  