-- Dale Says Bank of England Is Determined to Maintain `Trust' in Institution
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-12-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/dale-says-bank-of-england-is-determined-to-maintain-trust-in-institution.html
Bank of England Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale  said that the central bank is determined to sustain
trust in its framework and the institution itself.  “The challenges facing the central banking community are
continually evolving and we cannot know all that tomorrow might
bring,” Dale wrote in the foreword to the bank’s quarterly
bulletin released today in London. “The bank will remain
committed, however, to ensuring that trust is maintained in both
the policy framework and the bank itself.”  Dale’s comments follow weeks of focus on Governor  Mervyn King ’s relationship with the government and his backing of its
deficit-reduction policy. King has also reiterated the bank’s
commitment to price stability as it keeps up stimulus for the
economy at time when  inflation  has exceeded the government’s
upper limit for eight months.  “Inflation is likely to remain above the target throughout
2011, boosted by the increase in VAT effective in January,
elevated import-price inflation and by some businesses
continuing to rebuild profit margins,” Sally Hills and Ryland
Thomas, both economists at the bank, wrote in an article in the
bulletin with Nicholas Dimsdale of Oxford’s Queen’s College.
“Further ahead, CPI inflation is likely to fall back to around
the target” of 2 percent.  Investors’ expectations of further  asset purchases  by the
bank after it bought 200 billion pounds ($316 billion) in bonds
to stimulate the economy receded since the Bank of England’s
inflation report in November and news of faster-than-forecast
 economic growth  in the third quarter, the bulletin said.  ‘Stress’ Signs  Still, “some indicators of stress were beginning to rise
towards the end of the review period,” the bank said in a
review of market developments in the past quarter, and since
then, “concerns over sovereign risk in the euro area became
more widespread.”  In another article, bank officials noted that “constrained
credit supply continues to be one of the main factors holding
back the economic recovery.”  A survey of U.K. households conducted for the bank in late
September showed that almost half of them were “either somewhat
or very concerned” about their debts, bank officials wrote in
an article on consumer finances.  “The burden of unsecured debt has risen this year, most
likely reflecting a combination of weak earnings growth and the
interest rates on unsecured debt remaining high over the past
two years despite falls in bank rate,” the officials said.  The bank also said it’s inclined to revert to the money-
market system it had in place before the financial crisis
because it prefers to separate activities to provide liquidity
insurance from those to implement monetary policy. The old
arrangements, known as a “corridor” system, required firms to
set a monthly target for aggregate reserves and set lending and
deposit rates for central bank facilities by establishing a band
above and below the key  interest rate .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  