-- Dell to Buy Compellent for $960 Million for Storage
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-12-13T15:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/dell-agrees-to-acquire-compellent-for-960-million-to-add-data-storage.html
Dell Inc. , the world’s third-largest
personal-computer maker, agreed to buy Compellent Technologies
Inc. for $960 million to gain data-storage technology.  Compellent investors will receive $27.75 a share in cash,
the companies said today in a statement. The companies said last
week they were in exclusive talks for an acquisition at $27.50 a
share. The purchase price is 3.3 percent less than the Dec. 10
 closing price  for Compellent. The  stock  had gained 68 percent in
the past two months on speculation Compellent will get bought.  Dell  is using  acquisitions  to expand its data-center
offerings, such as server computers and storage, and lessen its
dependency on the desktop and notebook market, where  profit
margins  typically are lower. Compellent, based in Eden Prairie,
Minnesota, will give Dell technology that helps customers store,
recover and manage large amounts of data.  “The digital universe is just exploding,” said  Rich Kugele ,
an analyst at Needham & Co. in Boston, who advises investors to
buy Dell shares and doesn’t own any. “All the devices that you
and I have, and have come to rely on, generate and consume
content. We all basically just expect to be able to access any
of our data regardless of where we are, on any device.”  Compellent  fell  87 cents to $27.84 at 10:23 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Round Rock, Texas-based
Dell  declined  35 cents to $13.54 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Compellent was advised by Blackstone Group LP and Morgan
Stanley. UBS AG advised Dell.  Storage Takeovers  The price is 56 percent more than Compellent’s closing
price on Oct. 25, the day before Reuters reported the company
was considering options including a sale. There have been more
than 50 similar acquisitions in the storage industry in the past
12 months, with an average premium of 15 percent, according to
Bloomberg data. The average deal size was $64 million.  Dell said in June that its data-center business, including
servers, storage and networking gear, will generate $30 billion
in sales by the end of fiscal 2014. That’s up from $17 billion
in the year ending in January.  Several of Compellent’s peers have already been acquired
this year. International Business Machines Corp. bought Netezza
Corp. in November, and EMC Corp. agreed to buy Isilon Systems
Inc. the same month.  Hewlett-Packard Co. , the world’s biggest PC maker, outbid
Dell in September for storage company 3Par Inc. by agreeing to
pay $2.35 billion, more than triple the business’s market value
before any bids became public.  Data-Center Boom  There may be no rival bidders for Compellent because the
storage acquisitions by Dell’s rivals have reduced demand for
this type of company, Kugele said. Still, companies in the data
storage and management industry will likely get bought next
year, too, he said. People increasingly tap into software and
content via the Web, using so-called cloud-computing services,
boosting demand for data centers that store the content.  “People forget there’s a backend to all of it,” he said.
“They refer to the cloud in a philosophical way, but the cloud
is a data center.”  Dell also is relying on research and development to expand
its data-center products. The company plans to increase research
and development spending on those products from a single-digit
percentage of sales to 10 percent or more, Chief Financial
Officer  Brian Gladden  said in an interview last month.  Dell had $13.4 billion  in cash  and short-term investments
at the end of its third quarter, which ended in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  