-- Dell Plans More Data-Storage Acquisitions After Compellent Deal
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-12-13T21:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/dell-plans-more-data-storage-acquisitions-after-compellent-deal.html
Dell Inc.  plans more data-storage
acquisitions following the $960 million purchase today of
Compellent Technologies Inc. to strengthen its hand in the
market against rivals  Hewlett-Packard Co.  and EMC Corp.  About 3.5 percent of Dell’s $15.4 billion in sales  last
quarter  came from storage products. Dell, the world’s third-
largest personal-computer maker, may seek purchases in software
for managing data storage systems, Executive Vice President  Brad Anderson  said today on a conference call with reporters.  “The storage area will continue to be a very attractive
area for us,” said Anderson. In the meantime, Round Rock, Texas-
based Dell plans to keep reselling EMC’s products, he said.  HP, EMC,  International Business Machines Corp. , Cisco
Systems Inc., and Oracle Corp. may also bulk up in the storage
market as businesses look to manage increasing amounts of data,
according to analysts. Possible data-management targets include
 CommVault Systems Inc.  and  Double-Take Software Inc. ,  Jayson Noland , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co., said in an e-mail.  Symantec Corp.’s Veritas software may also be valuable to
Dell or HP, said San Francisco-based Noland, who has an
“outperform”  rating  on Dell shares and doesn’t own any.  Several of Compellent’s peers were acquired this year. HP,
the world’s biggest PC maker, outbid Dell in September for
storage company 3Par Inc. HP agreed to pay $2.35 billion, more
than triple the business’s market value before any bids became
public. IBM bought Netezza Corp. in November, and EMC agreed to
buy Isilon Systems Inc. the same month. Storage hardware and
software maker NetApp Inc. is also seen as a potential target.  ‘Solid Consolation Prize’  Compellent “is a solid consolation prize for missing out on
3Par,” said  Jason Maynard , an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities,
in a research note today. Maynard, based in Santa Monica,
California, rates Dell “market weight.”  Dell will pay Compellent investors $27.75 a share in cash,
the companies said today in a statement, after announcing last
week that they were in exclusive talks for a price of $27.50 a
share. The purchase price is 3.3 percent less than the Dec. 10
 closing price  for Compellent. The  stock  had gained 68 percent in
the past two months on speculation the company would get bought.  The price is 56 percent more than Compellent’s closing
price on Oct. 25, the day before Reuters reported the company
was considering options including a sale. There have been more
than 50 similar acquisitions in the storage industry in the past
12 months, with an average premium of 15 percent, according to
Bloomberg data. The average deal size was $64 million.  Dell  is using  acquisitions  to lessen its dependency on the
desktop and notebook market, where  profit margins  typically are
lower. Compellent technology helps customers store, recover and
manage large amounts of data.  Digital Universe  “The digital universe is just exploding,” said  Rich Kugele ,
an analyst at Needham & Co. in Boston, who recommends buying
Dell shares and doesn’t own any. “All the devices that you and I
have, and have come to rely on, generate and consume content. We
all basically just expect to be able to access any of our data
regardless of where we are, on any device.”  Philip Soran , CEO of Eden Prairie, Minnesota-based
Compellent, said on the conference call that Dell offered
employment to all of its almost 490 employees, and will retain
its upper management.  Compellent  fell  73 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $27.98 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Dell  declined 
54 cents to $13.36 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Compellent was advised by Blackstone Group LP and Morgan
Stanley. UBS AG advised Dell.  Dell said in June that its data-center business, including
servers, storage and networking gear, will generate $30 billion
in sales by the end of fiscal 2014. That’s up from $17 billion
in the year ending in January.  EMC Relationship  Compellent’s products compete with EMC’s. Dell’s purchase
of Compellent will cause further strain on its relationship with
EMC, said Wells Fargo’s Maynard.  Mike Workman , chief executive officer of closely held
storage maker Pillar Data Systems, said Dell may be able to sell
Compellent’s products more profitably than it has EMC’s.  “They’re excited about the margins you get when you own
your own product line,” said Workman. Pillar competes with
Dell, EMC, and others in the data storage market.  People are increasingly tapping into software and content
via the Web, using so-called cloud-computing services, boosting
demand for data centers that store the content.  The global market for external disk storage systems grew 19
percent to almost $7 billion in the third quarter, according to
research company IDC.  Dell also is relying on research and development to expand
its data-center products. The company plans to increase R&D
spending on those products from a single-digit percentage of
sales to 10 percent or more, Chief Financial Officer  Brian Gladden  said in an interview last month.  Dell had $13.4 billion  in cash  and short-term investments
at the end of its third quarter, which ended in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  