-- Dogan Yayin Seeks Buyers for Newspaper Business, Board Member Gedik Says
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2010-12-13T07:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/dogan-seeks-bids-for-turkey-s-hurriyet-board-member-says.html
Dogan Yayin Holding AS , Turkey’s
biggest media group, is seeking bids for its newspaper unit
 Hurriyet Gazetecilik & Matbaacilik AS , said Soner Gedik, a
company board member.  Hurriyet, owned 66.6 percent by Dogan Yayin, “has always
been in the list of assets to be sold,” Gedik said in a
telephone interview on Dec. 10.   Dogan Sirketler Grubu Holding AS, a Turkish business group
owned by tycoon Aydin Dogan,  put its media units grouped under
Dogan Yayin Holding up for sale, hiring  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .
as adviser. Dogan Sirketler Grubu holds 11 percent in Hurriyet,
according to Istanbul Stock Exchange data.  Dogan has asked potential investors for bids and a final
short list will be ready “within a month,” Gedik said.  “We are trying to sell all media assets for the right
price and in three months we plan to finalize the sale deal,”
he said. “Both strategic and private equity investors (are) among the
potential bidders. All potential bidders are foreign.”  Dogan Yayin Holding’s other assets include CNN Turk, Kanal
D and Star television channels as well as Milliyet and Posta
newspapers, published by  Dogan Gazetecilik,  and a number of
magazines, according to its web site.  Dogan is seeking buyers for its units after the government
demanded $3.8 billion in back taxes. The finance ministry filed
the tax bill last year after Dogan clashed with Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  over allegations in Dogan’s newspapers that
the government had financial links with Islamic charity Deniz
Feneri in Germany, whose officials were convicted of fraud.
Erdogan says the tax administration is independent of political
influence. Dogan is seeking to overturn the demands in court.  Hurriyet shares rose 10 kurus, or 5.3 percent, to 1.98
liras on Dec. 10. on the Istanbul Stock Exchange. Dogan Yayin
rose 5 kurus, or 2.8 percent, to 1.81 liras and Dogan Sirketler
was unchanged at 1.08 liras.  Dogan has received “non-binding bids” for the media
assets, it said in a statement to the Istanbul Stock Exchange on
Oct. 14.  RTL Group SA ,  KKR & Co. LP , TPG Capital and  Time Warner
Inc.  are among companies interested in the sale, three people
familiar with the matter told Bloomberg Oct. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 