-- Dollar Fluctuates Versus Euro, Yen Before Fed Meeting Outcome
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-12-14T18:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/dollar-is-near-one-week-low-before-fed-policymakers-discuss-bond-purchases.html
The dollar fluctuated against the
yen and euro before the outcome of the Federal Reserve’s meeting
to review its policy of debt purchases to bolster the U.S.
economy.  The U.S. currency fell against 15 of 16 major counterparts
as Treasury yields increased after U.S. retail sales rose more
than forecast during November, a sign consumers will play a
bigger role in the economic recovery. The Swiss franc
strengthened after the government raised its economic growth
forecast for 2011. The Federal Open Market Committee will issue
a policy statement at 2:15 p.m. New York time.  “We are going to have this bipolar dollar for a time to
come, with the two faces being better growth outlooks and
additional stimulus and then a worse deficit and debt picture
based on the massive increase in the budget, as well as QE
continuing to undermine dollar sentiment,” said  Brian Dolan ,
chief strategist at FOREX.com, a unit of online currency trading
firm Gain Capital in Bedminster, New Jersey.  The U.S. currency fell 0.2 percent to $1.3423 per euro at
1:07 p.m. in New York, after sliding 0.8 percent to 1.3499, the
weakest since Nov. 23. The dollar was little changed at 83.36
yen from 83.39 yen. Japan’s currency fell 0.1 percent 111.82 per
euro.  Yields Rise  U.S.  30-year  bond yields surged to a seven-month high,
rising as much as 12 basis points, 0.12 percentage point, to
4.51 percent.  Ten-year  yields rose 11 basis points to 3.38
percent.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, fell 0.1 percent
after touching the lowest since Nov. 23.  The dollar has fallen 2.2 percent this year in a measure of
the currencies of 10 developed nations, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro has dropped 9.2
percent. The yen is up 10.2 percent.  The euro gained earlier as German investor confidence rose
more than forecast for a second month, indicating the recovery
in Europe’s largest economy may be broadening.  A  ZEW Center for European Economic Research   index  of German
investor and analyst expectations increased to 4.3 this month
from 1.8 in November. ZEW’s gauge measuring sentiment in the
current situation rose to 82.6 from 81.5, falling short of
economist expectations.  ‘Euro Zone’  “When you have no one aiming to force any kind of policy
decisions in the euro zone, the market is going to underweight
euros and we have seen a rebalancing of that yesterday and
today,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at
Schneider Foreign Exchange in London. “No one in the market
wants to go in to 2011 excessively overweight euros.”  The one-year cross-currency basis swap between euros and
dollars reached minus 52 basis points today, the lowest since
Dec. 1, when concern Ireland’s debt problems would spread drove
it to trade near a seven-month low of 55 basis points reached
the day before. A negative swap rate signals that investors are
willing to receive reduced euro interest payments to obtain
dollar-based financing.  U.S. retail sales increased 0.8 percent, larger than
previously estimated, Commerce Department figures showed today
in Washington. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 0.6 percent rise.  Risk Positive  “It is positive for risk appetite,”  Kathy Lien , director
of currency research, with online currency trader GFT Forex, in
New York. “Investors are losing site of the bigger picture that
Europe is going to have a tougher time next year than the U.S.”  Wholesale costs in the U.S. rose in November by the most in
eight months, led by higher prices for gasoline, heating oil and
fruit. The producer price index increased 0.8 percent, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington.  Excluding more volatile food and energy costs, the so-
called core measure posted the smallest year-over-year gain in
five months.  The Swiss franc gained against all its major counterparts.
Swiss  gross domestic product  will rise 1.5 percent next year
instead of the 1.2 percent projected in September, the  State
Secretariat for Economic Affairs  in Bern said in a faxed
 statement  today.  The franc has appreciated 14 percent against the euro this
year as European leaders struggled to contain the region’s
fiscal crisis. Today it rose 0.7 percent to 1.2873 per euro and
traded at 96.12 centimes per dollar.  Gain Capital’s Dolan listed the Swiss franc as one of the
currency market standouts. “They don’t have the fiscal deficit
or debt issues and growth is reasonably robust so the currencies
will continue to be the outperformers,” he said.  The Norwegien krone was the second-best performer based on
the prospect the central bank will raise interest rates soon.  Norges Bank officials have said they plan to raise rates in
2011. The Norwegian krone has outperformed the 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg against the euro and the dollar
since the start of the month, gaining 2.1 percent against the
euro and 5.4 percent against the dollar. The krone gained 0.6
percent against the dollar to 5.8889.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  