-- ECB Raises Bond Purchases to $3.56 Billion After Extending Crisis Measures
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-12-13T15:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/ecb-raises-bond-purchases-to-3-56-billion-after-extending-crisis-measures.html
The European Central Bank increased
its bond purchases last week as investors remained concerned
about governments’ ability to push down budget deficits across
the 16-member euro region.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said it completed 2.667 billion
euros ($3.56 billion) of purchases after settling 1.965 billion
euros the previous week. That’s the most in 23 weeks. The
central bank will take seven-day term deposits tomorrow to
neutralize 72 billion euros of liquidity created by bond
purchases since the  program  started on May 10.  “The ECB is still buying very small amounts if you compare
the figures with the start of the program,” said  Cyril Regnat ,
a fixed-income strategist at Natixis in Paris. “However, it
sends a positive signal to the markets.”  The ECB said on Dec. 2 that it will extend emergency
liquidity measures for banks into the second quarter of 2011
after Ireland’s rescue package failed to quell market turmoil.
ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on that day that the
bank’s bond purchases remain “temporary in nature.”  ‘Last Resort’  “We suspect that the amount of bond buying will be scaled
back substantially in the remainder of this year,” said  Martin van Vliet , an economist at ING Bank in Amsterdam. “But early
next year, when the market returns to normal trading conditions,
the ECB will likely again have to step up its role as
‘peripheral bond investor of the last resort’.”  The ECB only publishes the amount of purchases settled each
week, without disclosing details. The program aims to smooth the
functioning of some euro-region bond markets to improve
monetary-policy transmission.  ECB council member  Ewald Nowotny  from Austria said on Dec.
10 that the bank’s unconventional measures “can’t become
normality” and his Luxembourg colleague  Yves Mersch  on the same
day called on governments to step up efforts to counter the
crisis, saying monetary policy “can’t be overburdened.”  “Concerning the question of spillover effects, I’m still
disturbed by the amount of uncertainty that’s created in markets
by focusing on unhelpful comments and unhelpful proposals,”
Mersch said. That “prevents the markets from focusing on the
real situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  