-- Hedge Funds Raise Bets on Commodity Rally to Highest Level in Four Years
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-12-13T09:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/hedge-funds-raise-bets-on-commodity-rally-to-highest-level-in-four-years.html
Hedge funds and large speculators
increased their bets on a commodity rally to the highest level
since at least 2006 as copper and gold gained to records.  An  index  tracking speculative positions in 20 commodity
futures in the U.S. advanced 8.4 percent from the week before to
1.54 million contracts as of Dec. 7, the highest level since at
least February 2006, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
show. The gauge, compiled by Bloomberg, is derived by taking
short positions, or bets on lower prices, from long positions.  Commodities tracked by the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
 Index  advanced 11 percent this year, extending a 23 percent gain
in 2009, on demand led by China and as investors bought raw
materials as a store of value. Cotton soared 85 percent, silver
73 percent and arabica coffee 54 percent. Hedge funds and
institutional investors will put more money in commodities next
year as the world economy recovers, Barclays Capital said.  “The current economic environment is clearly positive for
risk assets like commodities,” Yingxi Yu, an analyst at
Barclays Capital in Singapore, said today by phone. “Talk of a
double-dip or a recession seems to be fading away.”  About 76 percent of respondents surveyed at a Barclays’s
conference last week in New York predicted a bigger inflow into
direct commodity investments next year. New investments this
year were $50 billion, the London-based bank said.  ‘Cheap Money’  “We see most commodity prices moving higher in 2011 as
global economic growth, at an above-trend 4.2 percent, bolsters
demand,” Morgan Stanley analysts led by New York-based Hussein
Allidina said in a report dated Dec. 10. The bank is “most
constructive” on crude, copper, gold, corn and soybeans, it said.  Near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and increasing money
supply in leading world economies have attracted investors to
commodities, said  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., by phone today from
Melbourne. U.S. Treasuries returned 5.6 percent this year,
according to Merrill Lynch & Co., and the MSCI World  Index  of
equities gained 7.6 percent.  “The key driver is cheap money that’s parked in high-
returning assets like commodities,” he said. “A tipping point
would be when the Fed starts raising the rates. That’s when we
will start to see a big correction.”  Copper, Wheat  Speculative long positions in New York-traded copper
 outnumbered  shorts by 26,432 contracts in the week ended Dec. 7,
a 25 percent increase from the week before, CFTC data show.
 Wheat  speculators repositioned for a price increase, holding
8,488 net long positions, a reversal from 19,372 lots of net
shorts a week before, the data show.  Hedge-fund investments in agricultural, precious metal, oil
and copper derivatives totaled $160 billion this year, a record
according to data compiled by ANZ. Of the current total, 75
percent of the bets are long positions, Pervan said.  Hedge funds are largely unregulated investment vehicles
whose managers can trade any asset, aim to make money regardless
of whether markets rise or fall and participate substantially in
profits from money invested.  -- With assistance from  Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore. Editors:
Matthew Oakley, Jake Lloyd-Smith.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  