-- Edison Said to Weigh Capital Increase as Profit Drops
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2010-12-13T22:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/edison-said-to-consider-1-3-billion-capital-increase-as-earnings-decline.html
Edison SpA , Italy’s second-largest
power producer, is weighing a capital increase of more than 1
billion euros ($1.32 billion) to strengthen its balance sheet as
unprofitable gas-supply contracts threaten to further erode
earnings, said people with direct knowledge of the situation.  Edison’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization next year may be 30 percent to 50 percent below
analysts’  consensus expectation  of about 1.35 billion euros,
depending on the outcome of talks with suppliers including
Russia’s OAO Gazprom, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  A capital increase was discussed by  Edison’s board  earlier
this month and a decision about whether to proceed hasn’t been
made, said the people. Such a move is one option being
considered by investment bankers to strengthen Edison’s balance
sheet, the people said. Edison’s largest  shareholders  are Paris-
based Electricite de France SA and Italian utility A2A SpA.  Edison said in a statement today that a capital increase
hasn’t been considered by any “company organs.” Documents
showing the discussion of a capital increase are expected to be
available by the board’s next meeting in January, one of the
people said.  Shares of Edison slumped 7.3 percent, the steepest decline
since March 2009, to close at .86 euros in Milan.  Edipower Value  “A capital increase would be useful given the high costs
the company has to sustain,” said  Massimiliano Romano , head of
research at Concentric Italy in Milan. “But obviously the
market won’t like it.”  Edison is losing money on supply contracts because it’s
paying more for natural gas imports than it can sell the fuel
for. The company, carrying net debt of almost 4 billion euros at
the end of the third quarter, said in October the contracts will
negatively impact 2010 Ebitda by 300 million euros. Edison’s
credit rating was cut one level to BBB by Standard & Poor’s last
month.  Falling energy demand in Italy may force Milan-based Edison
to write down the value of its 50 percent stake in Italian
utility Edipower to about 2.2 billion euros from 3.6 billion
euros, the people said. It may have to write down the value of
Egyptian offshore gas field  Abu Qir  by about a third, these
people said.  Edison bought a multi-year concession to develop and
explore the Abu Qir field for more than 1 billion euros in
January 2009. The company was never able to secure a buyer for a
stake in the field as planned, one of the people said.  Shareholder Pact  A rights offering would require shareholders to buy more
stock or risk diluting their stakes.  EDF  controls about 50
percent of Edison. A2A, Italy’s largest municipal utility, owns
51 percent of the holding company Delmi Spa, which jointly owns
Transalpina di Energia Srl with EDF. Transalpina has 61.2
percent of Edison. Carlo Tassara SpA, the holding company of
financier  Romain Zaleski , owns a stake of about 10 percent.  EDF and A2A have differed in the past over A2A’s request to
play a bigger role managing Edison, as well as the company’s
effort to create a nuclear venture to rival one between EDF and
Enel SpA. A2A said in June that it hired investment bank
Mediobanca SpA to advise it on options for Edison.  A capital increase could be a way to resolve the current
ownership situation, said  Alessandro Frigerio , a fund manager at
RMJ Sgr in Milan.  “I doubt A2A can afford a capital increase so it could be a
means to an end for EDF,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  EDF Support  EDF’s stake supports Edison’s debt rating, which would be
one level lower without the French company’s backing, S&P said
last month.  A2A , meanwhile, is trying to cut its own debt, which
totaled 4.7 billion euros at the end of last year.  A2A issued a press release following Edison’s denial saying
it asked the market regulator to investigate today’s decline in
its shares, which retreated 3.6 percent to 1.04 euros. EDF
spokeswoman  Carole Trivi  declined to comment.  The companies control Edison through an agreement that
expires in September 2011 and must be renewed six months in
advance. Edison’s Chief Executive Officer  Umberto Quadrino  said
in October that Edison’s stock price was “a problem” as the
companies sought to reach an accord on control.  Shares of Edison  jumped 15 percent last week  after EDF CEO
 Henri Proglio  reiterated his commitment to Italy and EDF agreed
to sell a stake in a German power company for 4.7 billion euros.
That prompted speculation the company would use the proceeds to
buy the rest of Edison, which has a market value of about 4.6
billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 