-- Edison Is Said to Consider $1.3 Billion Capital Increase as Profit Drops
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2010-12-13T11:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/edison-is-said-to-consider-1-3-billion-capital-increase-as-profit-drops.html
Edison SpA , Italy’s second-largest
power producer, is weighing a capital increase of more than 1
billion euros ($1.32 billion) to strengthen its balance sheet as
unprofitable gas-supply contracts threaten to further erode
earnings, people with direct knowledge of the situation said.  Edison’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization next year may be 30 percent below analysts’
 consensus expectation  of about 1.35 billion euros, or 50 percent
below depending on the outcome of talks with suppliers including
Russia’s OAO Gazprom, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  A capital increase was discussed by  Edison’s board  earlier
this month and a decision about whether to proceed hasn’t been
made, said the people.  Edison said in a statement that it wasn’t considering a
capital increase. Edison’s largest  shareholders  are Electricite
de France SA and Italian utility A2A SpA. EDF spokeswoman  Carole Trivi  declined to comment. A call to A2A’s press office wasn’t
returned.  “If they do a capital increase it would be useful to know
whether it is for financial reasons or if it could be a way for
one of the partners to increase their stake,” said  Tatjana Eifrig , an analyst at Banca Finnat Euramerica in Rome.  Investment bankers are studying various options to
strengthen the company’s balance sheet, including a capital
increase, the people said.  Edipower Value  Falling energy demand may also force Milan-based Edison to
write down the value of its stake in Italian utility Edipower by
about 40 percent and Egyptian offshore gas field  Abu Qir  by
about a third, the people said.  “A capital increase would be useful given the high costs
the company has to sustain,” said  Massimiliano Romano , head of
research at Concentric Italy in Milan. “But obviously the
market won’t like it.”  Edison is losing money on supply contracts because it’s
paying more for natural gas imports than it can sell the fuel
for. The company, carrying net debt of almost 4 billion euros at
the end of the third quarter, said in October the contracts will
negatively impact 2010 Ebitda by 300 million euros. Edison’s
credit rating was cut one notch to BBB by Standard & Poor’s last
month.  Shares of Edison slumped as much as 6.3 percent, the
steepest intraday decline in seven months. The stock was 4.1
percent lower at 0.89 euros as of 12:37 p.m. in Milan. A2A
retreated 3.2 percent to 1.04 euros and EDF declined 0.6 percent
to 31.77 euros in Paris.  ‘Financial Reasons’  Edison, which uses gas in power generation and supplies it
directly to customers, may have to write down the book value of
its 50 percent stake in Italian power generator Edipower to
about 2.2 billion euros from 3.6 billion euros, the people said.  In Italy, demand for energy has been declining amid an
economic slump while Edison is paying more for natural gas than
it can sell it for due to procurement contracts signed when oil
prices were higher.  “The group’s financial metrics have deteriorated
materially as a result of pressures on earnings and cash flows
in light of challenging market conditions in Italy,” S&P said
in a Nov. 2 report. The ratings company also cited the
acquisition in January 2009 of a multi-year concession to
develop and explore the Abu Qir field for more than 1 billion
euros and a failure to renegotiate gas contracts.  Abu Qir  Edison had expected to conclude the sale of a stake in the
Egypt’s Abu Qir field earlier this year, Edison Chief Executive
Officer  Umberto Quadrino  said in October 2009. The company was
never able to secure a buyer for the stake, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  Edison said in October its  debt  would be close to 3.6
billion euros at the end of the year. Moody’s downgraded the
long-term senior unsecured ratings of Edison to Baa3 in October.  A rights offering would require shareholders to buy more
stock or risk diluting their stakes.  EDF  controls about 50
percent of Edison. A2A, Italy’s largest municipal utility, owns
51 percent of the holding company Delmi Spa, which jointly owns
Transalpina di Energia Srl with EDF. Transalpina has 61.2
percent of Edison. Carlo Tassara SpA, the holding company of
financier  Romain Zaleski , owns a stake of about 10 percent.  EDF and A2A have differed in the past over A2A’s request to
play a bigger role managing Edison, as well as the company’s
effort to create a nuclear venture to rival one between EDF and
Enel SpA. A2A said in June that it hired investment bank
Mediobanca SpA to advise on options for Edison.  Capital Increase  Alessandro Frigerio , a fund manager at RMJ Sgr in Milan,
said a capital increase could be a way to resolve the current
ownership situation.  “I doubt A2A can afford a capital increase so it could be a
means to an end for EDF,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  EDF’s stake in Edison supports the company’s debt rating,
which would be one level lower without the French company’s
backing, S&P said.  A2A , meanwhile, is trying to cut its own
debt, which totaled 4.7 billion euros at the end of last year,
through asset sales.  The companies control Edison through an agreement that
expires in September 2011 and must be renewed six months in
advance. Edison’s Quadrino said in October that Edison’s stock
price was “a problem” as the companies sought to reach an
accord on control.  Shares of Edison  jumped 15 percent last week  after EDF
Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  reiterated his commitment
to Italy and EDF agreed to sell a stake in a German power
company for 4.7 billion euros. That prompted speculation the
company would use the proceeds to buy the rest of Edison, which
has a market value of about 4.7 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 