-- Paulson, Calpers File Rival Payment Plan for Lehman
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-12-16T19:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/lehman-creditors-said-to-mull-competing-payout-plan-update1-.html
Paulson & Co. and other creditors of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  filed a payout plan for the
defunct firm that they said would spread an estimated
$57.5 billion more equally among creditors than would Lehman’s
own proposals.  The group would take money from derivatives creditors and
give it to senior bondholders, according to filings in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan yesterday. The 10 members
including New York-based Paulson, which has about $33 billion in
hedge funds, and the California Public Employees’ Retirement
System, the largest U.S. public pension fund, hold more than
$12 billion in claims against Lehman, including $9.4 billion of
senior bonds, according to the filing.  Under Lehman Chief Executive Officer  Bryan Marsal ’s
original plan filed in March, payouts would range from about 15
cents on the dollar to 44 cents. Senior bondholders would get
17.4 cents on the dollar under Marsal’s plan, and 24.5 cents if
the Paulson-Calpers plan is accepted by creditors.  “The plan represents a fair allocation of value for all
Lehman creditors,”  David Salanic , a director at Fir Tree
Partners, one of the group members, said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Double Dip’  Derivatives creditors’ payments would be slashed to 25.7
cents on the dollar, from what the group calculates as 38.8
cents under Marsal’s plan, which gives them a right to get paid
twice in a so-called “double dip,” the group has said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse
Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America Corp. have been
derivatives creditors of the Lehman Brothers Special Finance
unit, according to court filings.  A bankruptcy judge has asked Lehman for a Jan. 13 progress
report on its plan, according to a court filing. The defunct
investment bank, which is amending its earlier plan, said its
proposals were “a base for negotiations with major
stakeholders.” Lehman has “been in almost constant discussion
with major stakeholders and their unsecured creditors’ committee
in the effort to reach consensus as to a joint Chapter 11
plan,” it said in a statement yesterday.  The rival group favors a variant of so-called substantive
consolidation, which irons out differences among creditors of a
company’s units. The group would take from some creditors to
give to others, though this approach doesn’t make all creditors
equal.  Intercompany Debts  Consolidation would also help Lehman to deal with
intercompany debts, which might bring the parent company
$3 billion, they said.  Creditors’ payouts don’t depend on Lehman winning any
lawsuits, though after a $590 million judgment against Bank of
America they the group it may be “appropriate” to count that
as creditors’ money. The bank yesterday said it had appealed the
ruling.  Marsal said in September he aimed to raise $57.5 billion
for creditors in the next five years, beating his earlier
estimate. He would cut claims against those funds to about $365
billion from $1 trillion originally, he said. That would give
creditors an average of 15.8 cents on the dollar.  Asked earlier this week if a new plan might equalize
creditors, he declined to comment.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 