-- Emerging-Markets Stocks Gain as China Policy Makers Maintain Interest Rate
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-12-13T17:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/emerging-markets-stocks-gain-as-china-policy-makers-maintain-interest-rate.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with
the Chinese benchmark index surging the most in eight weeks,
after the nation’s central bank refrained from raising interest
rates and reports signaled economic growth is accelerating.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 0.7 percent to
1,122.66 as of 12:33 p.m. in New York, poised for the biggest
gain in a week. The  Shanghai Composite Index  rose 2.9 percent,
the most since Oct. 15. Turkish bond yields fell to a record
after the central bank’s deputy governor said lower interest
rates may be needed to cut the current account deficit. Brazil’s
 Bovespa  index gained for a second day as commodities rallied and
analysts increased their estimates for economic growth.  China on Dec. 10 ordered banks to set aside larger reserves
and didn’t announce an interest-rate increase, even as the
inflation rate climbed to 5.1 percent in November while
industrial-output growth beat economists’ estimates. The
government is likely to set a target of at least 7 trillion yuan
($1.1 trillion) of new loans for 2011, said two people briefed
on the matter. Economists at UBS AG and Bank of America Corp.
had forecast a quota of 6.5 trillion yuan to 7 trillion yuan.  The decision not to boost rates “is fairly positive
news,” said  He Zhen , who helps manage $301 million at Shanghai
Huili Asset Management. “The central bank will be very cautious
about raising interest rates.”  The MSCI emerging-market index rebounded from a 0.6 percent
decline last week and has gained 13 percent this year. The 21-
country gauge is still down 2.9 percent from its 2010 high
reached on Nov. 5.  Russia Rally  Russia’s  RTS Index  climbed 1.3 percent to the highest level
on a closing basis since August 2008 as energy companies
including  OAO Gazprom  and OAO Rosneft rallied on higher crude
prices. South Korea’s  Kospi Index  increased 0.5 percent to the
highest level since November 2007 after Hyundai Motor Co. gained
on an announcement that U.S. vehicle sales topped 500,000 this
year.  Emerging-market currencies were mixed. Poland’s zloty
posted the biggest gain, rising 1.9 percent against the dollar.
The Colombian peso weakened 1.1 percent to lead declines.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries widened four basis points to 2.34
percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
Index.  The  Shanghai Composite  index pared its 2010 loss to less
than 11 percent. The gauge is the worst-performing benchmark
index among major emerging markets this year after the
government raised borrowing costs in October and took steps to
restrict real-estate speculation.  Industrial Output  Data released on Dec. 11 showed the economy is withstanding
government curbs. Industrial-output growth accelerated to 13.3
percent last month from a year earlier, exceeding the 13 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Urban fixed-asset
investment also grew at a faster pace, climbing 24.9 percent in
the first 11 months of 2010. Retail sales gained 18.7 percent in
November, matching the median estimate.  Jiangxi Copper Co. , China’s biggest producer of the metal,
jumped 10 percent in Shanghai. Copper for three-month delivery
rose as much as 2.7 percent to a record on the London Metal
Exchange.  Gazprom, Russia’s natural-gas export monopoly, advanced 1.5
percent and state-controlled oil producer  Rosneft  increased 0.8
percent. Oil climbed as much as 1.9 percent in New York trading
after OPEC kept output targets unchanged at a weekend meeting.  Petrobras Gains  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, rose 1 percent as crude prices gained.  Obrascon Huarte
Lain Brasil SA  led gains for toll road operators, increasing 0.6
percent, after Bank of America Corp. said traffic in November
was “robust”.  Turkey’s two-year benchmark bond yield fell as much as 28
basis points to 7.41 percent in Istanbul. The ISE National 100
Index of shares rose 2.5 percent.  Erdem Basci, the deputy head of Turkey’s central bank who
may succeed  Durmus Yilmaz  as head of the lender next year, said
a combination of interest-rate cuts to limit gains in the lira
and higher reserve requirement ratios to slow credit growth is
the “ideal policy mix” to tackle a widening current-account
gap. He made the proposal in a paper published over the weekend
on the central bank’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at   Wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  