-- Merkel's FDP Partner Reels After `Late Phase' of East Germany Comparison
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-12-13T09:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/merkel-s-fdp-partner-reels-after-late-phase-of-east-germany-comparison.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Free Democratic Party coalition partner moved to tamp down
infighting after a senior member compared the FDP’s political
fortunes to the final days of East Germany.  Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle  added his voice today to
fellow FDP members who sought to distance the party from the
comments made in this week’s  Der Spiegel  magazine by  Wolfgang Kubicki , the FDP chairman in the northern state of Schleswig-
Holstein.  Kubicki told Spiegel that the party under the leadership of
Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  is as oblivious to pending
losses in state elections next year as East German leaders were
to the downfall of the communist state as the Berlin Wall
collapsed in November 1989.  “Some people only know how to profile themselves when they
position themselves against their own party,” Bruederle was
cited as saying in Handelsblatt newspaper today.  The comments are the latest blow to Merkel’s coalition
partner as it struggles to revive voter support before regional
elections next year in seven of Germany’s 16 states. Polls show
FDP backing is 25 percent of last September’s federal election
result, dragging down support for Merkel’s government.  The pro-business FDP has tumbled in the polls after failing
to deliver on a core campaign pledge of tax cuts and simplifying
the German tax system. Bickering with fellow coalition parties
over policies such as health care as well as domestic and U.S.
criticism of party leader Westerwelle have also taken a toll.  Support Drops  A Stern poll last week showed the FDP’s support nationwide
dropping one percentage point to 4 percent, below the 5 percent
threshold to gain seats in parliament and down from 14.6 percent
at the election. Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc was
unchanged with 34 percent, after 33.8 percent at the election.  Losses in elections next year in the states of Baden-
Wuerttemberg and Rhineland-Palatinate as well as in Hamburg and
Berlin might prompt Westerwelle not to seek re-election as party
chairman, Kubicki said.  “The situation in which we find ourselves fatally reminds
me of the late phase of East Germany,” Kubicki told Spiegel in
an interview published yesterday. “At one point it imploded --
it just wasn’t there anymore. The leadership didn’t see it
coming until the very end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  