-- Thermo Fisher to Buy Dionex for $2.1 Billion for Chemical Analysis Systems
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-12-13T21:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/thermo-fisher-scientific-agrees-to-purchase-dionex-for-2-1-billion-cash.html
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. , the
world’s largest maker of laboratory instruments, agreed to
acquire  Dionex Corp.  for about $2.1 billion to expand in the
water-analysis business in China.  The $118.50-a-share price represents a premium of 21
percent over the closing value of Dionex on Dec. 10, the last
trading day before the announcement. The transaction will be
completed in next year’s first quarter, the companies said in a
statement today.  Dionex, based in Sunnyvale, California, produces products
used to identify chemical mixtures, and made the first ion-
chromatography system for water analysis. Dionex will increase
Thermo Fisher’s business in China, where there is demand for
measuring water quality, the companies said.  “Thermo has a strong cash flow and a strong balance sheet,
and investors were eager to see Thermo do a sizable
acquisition,” said Sung Ji Nam, an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in
New York, in a telephone interview. “There’s very little
overlap between” the companies’ products, he said.  Dionex jumped $19.66, or 20 percent, to $117.83 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite  trading . Thermo
Fisher, based in Waltham, Massachusetts,  rose  $2.52, or 4.8
percent, to $55.56 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Natural Fit  “This is a natural fit with our range of products and
services, and Dionex has a great presence in China,”  Marc Casper , chief executive officer of Thermo Fisher, said in an
interview. The acquisition will add 13 cents to 15 cents a share
to Thermo Fisher’s adjusted earnings in the first 12 months
after closing, he said.  Dionex’s  chromatography  instruments are used to detect
what’s in a sample of water and will expand the range of
products offered by Thermo Fisher, which makes instruments for
mass spectrometry, another way of screening liquids and foods
for contaminants. The instruments also have applications in
discovering drugs.  Thermo Fisher has announced 29 pending or completed
acquisitions in the past five years, with an average premium of
18 percent and an average value of $1.28 billion. The biggest
was the purchase of Fisher Scientific for about $11 billion in
2006, according to Bloomberg data. Thermo had about $930 million
 in cash  on Sept. 30.  Dionex, founded in 1975, generates more than 35 percent of
its revenue from the Asia-Pacific region, according to the
companies’ statement. Dionex, with more than 1,600 employees in
21 countries, is to become part of Thermo Fisher’s Analytical
Technologies Segment.  Barclays Capital and J.P. Morgan Securities advised Thermo
Fisher, and Goldman Sachs was Dionex’s adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 