-- Estonia, Long-Time Ireland Follower, Continues Betting on Euro
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-12-14T10:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/estonia-long-time-ireland-follower-continues-betting-on-euro.html
Estonia’s resolve to adopt the euro
on Jan. 1 is strengthening as politicians, companies and
consumers bet the switch will make them safer, even after the
currency quaked under $260 billion of bailouts.  “We are at sea in a small boat tied to an ocean liner,”
Finance Minister  Jurgen Ligi  said by e-mail. “In a storm or
otherwise, we’d feel better being on board.”  As countries including the Czech Republic and Poland balk
at adopting the euro after members were forced to bail out
Ireland and Greece, Estonian support for the common currency is
rising. Backing for the euro rose to 54 percent in November from
49 percent the previous month as a government campaign helped
blunt concern about the debt crisis, according to a poll
commissioned by the Cabinet. A new survey is due out next week.  Estonia will be the first country to join the euro region
since the crisis gripped Europe. The former Soviet republic of
1.3 million people, which in the past two decades shaped its
economy after Ireland, is counting on eliminating currency risk
in a nation already dependent on euro-denominated loans and
trade.  “We should move on as a country, and I think this will
give more chances to Estonia and its people to improve their
life,” said Igor Beloborodov, a 23-year old client-service
representative. “I’m not worried by the Irish events.”  ‘Big Brothers’  More than 90 percent of Estonian private loans are in
euros, with most of them tied to the euro interbank offered
rate, or  Euribor , central bank data show.  “What the euro zone offers is risk sharing,” said  Agnes Belaisch , a London-based strategist at Threadneedle Asset
Management Ltd., which oversees $100 billion. “There are clear
advantages of having big brothers.”  The euro region “can handle problems better than yesterday
and tomorrow better than today” and the cost of reversing
European integration would be “acceptable to no-one,” Prime
Minister  Andrus Ansip  said in Estonia’s parliament today. The
switchover will bring more jobs, higher pensions and faster
economic growth to the country, he said.  The added security of euro-area membership helped persuade
 Statoil Fuel & Retail ASA , the biggest fuel retailer in the
Nordic countries, to set up its financial center in Estonia. It
spent 270 million euros ($351 million), the biggest foreign
investment in the Baltic country this year.  “We could have located the center in any of the three
Baltic states or in Poland,” Chief Financial Officer Klaus-
Anders Nysteen said by phone. “Estonia’s entry into the euro
zone was very important to our decision and definitely gave
added value to the location.”  Resisting Krugman  The kroon’s exchange rate has been fixed since its 1992
introduction, first to the Deutsche mark, then to the euro. The
country resisted calls from economists including  Paul Krugman 
and Nouriel Roubini to fight the EU’s second-deepest recession
by abandoning the peg, opting to cut costs and raise taxes.  The currency became an advantage among the former communist
countries of eastern Europe that agreed to work toward adopting
the euro when they joined the trading bloc in the last decade.  Poland, Romania, the Czech Republic and Hungary, the group’s
four largest countries, use versions of floating currency
regimes and are further from qualifying for euro adoption than
Bulgaria, Latvia and Lithuania, which have fixed exchange rates,
said  Fredrik Erixon , director of the European Centre for
International Political Economy in Brussels.  “If there will be another round of expansion before” the
second half of the decade, “it is the remaining Baltic
countries plus Bulgaria that are in line,” Erixon said in an e-
mail.  Following Ireland  Estonia followed Ireland’s example of betting on foreign
investment to drive  growth . Estonia abolished the corporate
income tax on reinvested profits in 2000, attracting Swedish and
Finnish companies to its banking, telecommunications and
electronics industries.  Ireland was one of the poorest countries in Europe when it
joined the EU in 1973. In the 1990s, lured by a 12.5 percent
corporate tax, companies such as Pfizer Inc. and Microsoft Corp.
helped Ireland export its way into becoming the “Celtic Tiger”
as GDP growth in the decade through 2006 averaged about 7
percent a year.  Budget Discipline  Estonia’s economic growth averaged 7.2 percent from 1995 to
2007 as Nordic lenders expanded their influence to more than 90
percent of the financial industry. The country kept its budget
deficit within the EU limit of 3 percent of economic output
every year except 1999.  Budget discipline helped Estonia keep its public debt at
the EU’s lowest level, 8 percent of GDP this year, according to
a European Commission estimate. In Ireland, the economic
expansion and easy credit fanned a real estate bubble, leading
to a 97 percent debt level.  Ireland needed an 85 billion-euro aid package after
predicting its budget deficit would swell to 32 percent of
economic output this year, the highest in the euro’s 12-year
history. With Greece’s 110 billion-euro bailout, the crisis
exposed flaws in the euro area’s makeup and fueling doubts
whether the 16 countries belong in the same currency union.  The consensus among Scandinavian investors two years ago
was that Estonia would have to devalue the kroon to exit one of
the world’s worst recessions, halting the flow of investment,
said  Joakim Helenius , executive chairman of Tallinn-based
investment bank Trigon Capital.  ‘Soviet Imperial Illusions’  Some Estonians say the country should continue focusing on
its own economic development instead of relying on the debt-
ridden euro area.  The currency switch may lead to “massive” price increases
and its “one-size-fits-all” monetary policy, which “mimics
Soviet imperial illusions” are wrong for the country, Anti
Poolamets, a lawyer who organized an anti-euro movement, wrote
Nov. 21 on the  website  Delfi owned by AS Ekspress Grupp, the
only publicly traded media company in the Baltic region.  A poll commissioned by Poolamets in October showed that
52.8 percent of the 1,524 respondents in the survey opposed euro
adoption. While the government asked people if they wanted to
adopt the euro, the competing poll also highlighted the loss of
the kroon, Poolamets said.  The opposition is myopic, according to central bank Deputy
Governor  Marten Ross .  “Criticism of the timing of Estonia’s euro entry reminds
of cases where strategic decisions have been overshadowed by
tactical considerations that in the end haven’t yielded any
gains,” he wrote in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  