-- Etisalat to Borrow $12 Billion for Zain; Plans $6 Billion Bond Refinancing
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-12-13T09:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/etisalat-to-borrow-12-billion-for-zain-plans-6-billion-bond-refinancing.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. 
plans to raise $12 billion of loans to fund its bid for a stake
in Kuwait’s biggest phone operator, three people familiar with
the situation said.  Etisalat, as the United Arab Emirates’ largest phone
company is known, is seeking $6 billion in a one-year loan that
can be extended by six months, said the people, who declined to
be identified because terms are private. The debt will be
refinanced with bond sales, following Etisalat’s creation of an
issuance program in November for as much as $8 billion.  Etisalat said on Sept. 30 it offered about $12 billion for
a 46 percent stake in Mobile Telecommunications Co., or  Zain. 
The Abu Dhabi-based company also plans to raise $3 billion in a
three-year loan, and another $3 billion for five years, the
people said.  An Etisalat spokesman couldn’t be reached for comment.  The deal would extend Etisalat’s reach in the Middle East,
where Zain operates in countries from Kuwait and Iraq to
Bahrain. Etisalat offers telecommunications in 18 countries in
the Middle East, Africa and Asia, counting more than 100 million
customers, according to its website. The seven emirates of the
U.A.E make up about 86 percent of Etisalat’s sales.  Kuwait’s commercial court set Dec. 15 as the date to
consider a lawsuit to stop the due diligence process to sell the
stake in Zain to Etisalat. Al-Fawares Holding Co., a
shareholder in Zain, filed the complaint against Al-Khair
National for Stocks & Real Estate Co., National Investments Co.
and Zain, according to the court last week.  Standard & Poor’s  rates  Etisalat’s debt AA-. Moody’s
Investors Service grades it Aa3. Fitch ratings ranks it A+.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  