-- Metrodome Owners May Know Tonight If Stadium Can Host Vikings-Bears Game
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2010-12-13T22:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/metrodome-owners-may-know-tonight-if-stadium-can-host-vikings-bears-game.html
Stadium officials in Minnesota may
know by tonight whether the Metrodome’s collapsed roof can be
repaired in time to host next week’s scheduled National Football
League game between the Vikings and Chicago Bears.  Roy Terwilliger , chairman of the Metropolitan Sports
Facilities Commission, said workers from Amherst, New York-based
Birdair Inc. were arriving this afternoon to survey the damage
and determine the cost and time required for repairs.  “Our goal is to keep that game here in Minneapolis,”
Terwilliger said in a telephone interview.  The Vikings are scheduled to play the New York Giants
tonight at Detroit’s Ford Field after yesterday’s game was moved
because the Metrodome’s roof caved in under the weight of 17
inches (43 centimeters) of snow, the biggest snowfall in
Minneapolis since 1991.  The Metrodome’s roof, composed of  10 acres  of Teflon-coated
Fiberglas, collapsed under the weight of 10 inches of snow 48
days after it was first inflated in October 1981. While the
structure has had tears since then, the only previous event to
be postponed because of snow was a Major League Baseball game
between the Minnesota Twins and California Angels in April 1983.  The Detroit Lions began giving away free tickets to
tonight’s game starting at 9 a.m. local time and ran out a few
hours later, team spokesman  Matt Barnhart  said in a telephone
interview. He was unsure how many tickets to the 64,500-seat
stadium were distributed.  Preferred Seating  Ticket holders for the original game in Minneapolis will
get preferred seating in sections near the 50-yard-line,
Barnhart said. The Lions will also admit ticketholders from the
team’s 7-3 victory over the Green Bay Packers yesterday at Ford
Field.  The commission will bear financial responsibility for the
repairs, Terwilliger said.  “They’re the tenant, we’re the landlord,” he said.  Birdair suggested  in July  that the commission begin
planning for replacement of the roof fabric, a process the
company said would take five years and cost between $12 million
and $15 million. The stadium has no debt and cash reserves of
$14 million or $15 million, Terwilliger said.  “It’s held up much better that we thought,” he said.  Terwilliger said he expects to hear calls for a new stadium
in the wake of the collapse. Lester Bagley, a Vikings spokesman,
said in a statement that now isn’t the time to discuss the
issue.  The commission last year  unveiled plans  for an $870 million
replacement for the Metrodome. The team’s lease runs through the
end of next season.  “We’ll probably have people say that’s why we need to
build this new facility,” he said. “It calls into question the
age of the facility, which is 28 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 