-- EU Carbon Erases Gains From Cancun Optimism as Natural Gas, Power Decline
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2010-12-13T17:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/eu-carbon-erases-cancun-gains-as-natural-gas-power-decline.html
European Union carbon permits erased
early gains as natural-gas prices slumped, damping demand for
emission allowances and undermining optimism that followed an
agreement reached at the global climate summit in Mexico.  EU allowances for December 2011 dropped 0.3 percent to
14.85 euros ($19.88) a ton on London’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. They earlier rose as much as 1.8 percent, the biggest
intraday increase since Nov. 17, after envoys at the United
Nations’ meeting in Cancun reached agreements on reducing
deforestation and a fund to manage aid for poorer nations.  U.K. natural gas for delivery next month lost as much as
3.7 percent to 57.2 pence a therm, the lowest intraday level
since Dec. 2, according to broker prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Lower gas prices may prompt some power generators to switch to
the fuel, which requires half as many carbon permits as coal.  German baseload power for next month dropped 3.5 percent to
53.10 euros a megawatt-hour, the sharpest intraday decline since
Nov. 1, according to broker prices compiled by Bloomberg. Lower
prices can reduce the incentive to sell electricity forward,
curbing demand for CO2 permits.  Negotiators at the United Nations meeting in Cancun,
Mexico, agreed after two weeks of talks to a climate-protection
package including a fund that would manage a “significant
share” of the $100 billion annually pledged last year in aid
for poorer nations by 2020 and a plan to reduce deforestation.
They failed to agree on emission-reduction targets during the
summit ended on Dec. 11.  ‘Long and Challenging’  The meeting also approved carbon capture and storage
projects as eligible to generate UN offsets, known as Certified
Emission Reductions. CERs are issued to investors for projects
to cut greenhouse gases in developing countries under the Clean
Development Mechanism, the world’s second-biggest carbon market
after the European Union’s cap-and-trade program.  The EU said on Dec. 11 the agreement was an important step
on a “long and challenging” road toward a binding treaty to
tackle global warming. The 27-nation bloc is on track to meet
its internal target of cutting greenhouse gases by 20 percent by
2020 compared with 1990 and said it may deepen the goal to 30
percent should other nations follow suit.  It stopped short of doing so during the 2009 summit in
Copenhagen, citing inadequate efforts by the U.S. and China.  The next UN summit aimed at ironing out a global climate
framework for when the Kyoto Protocol expires in 2012 is
scheduled to take place next year in Durban, South Africa.  ‘Clear Signal’  “For the EU allowances market, the Cancun Agreements
increase the likelihood of more ambitious long-term agreement in
the future,” Bloomberg New Energy Finance said in a research
note today. “However, the market risks getting ahead of itself
if it believes the Cancun Agreements will lead to an
international agreement involving binding emissions targets for
the U.S., China and Japan --arguably prequisites for the EU to
move beyond its current 20 percent target in 2020.”  UN offsets for delivery in December 2011 gained as much as
1.3 percent to 11.55 euros, the highest level since Dec. 2, and
last traded at 11.43 euros. The contract lost 10.6 percent in
the past six months because of uncertainty over the future of
the CDM after the Kyoto Protocol’s expiry.  “Parties at COP16 sent a clear signal that the CDM will
continue operation even if a gap will occur in 2013 between the
end of the Kyoto Protocol’s first commitment period and entry
into force of a subsequent treaty,” New Energy Finance said.
“This is critical, as it looks very likely that a replacement
treaty will not be in place by Jan. 1, 2013.”  The improved CDM rules “will expedite delivery of CERs
from existing projects, and inclusion of CCS as an eligible
technology type may also boost supply in the long term,” and
that could pull down prices, New Energy Finance said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  