-- EU Leaders Set to Focus on Debt Crisis Facility as ECB Grapples With Banks
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2010-12-13T14:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/eu-leaders-set-to-focus-on-debt-crisis-facility-as-ecb-grapples-with-banks.html
European Union leaders will this
week discuss the creation of a permanent mechanism to shore up
over-indebted countries as the European Central Bank tries to
hammer out plans to aid the region’s weakest lenders.  At a summit in Brussels on Dec. 16 and 17, the group will
confront investor skepticism about its readiness to stem a
sovereign-debt crisis that led to bailouts for Greece and
Ireland and threatens to spread. Spain’s 10-year bonds fell for
a sixth day today as the government prepares to sell debt on
this week.  “I don’t think there’s anything they can come up with to
settle things down right away,” said  David Owen , chief European
economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in London. “The
problems will continue. Markets are very much focusing on the
first few weeks of next year when not only sovereigns but banks
need to go to the market for a lot of financing.”  A draft summit statement sets a Jan. 1, 2013, deadline for
all 27 EU countries to ratify a treaty amendment foreseeing a
“stability mechanism to safeguard the stability of the euro
area as a whole,” with financial aid for distressed governments
“subject to strict conditionality.”  The mechanism would take over from the 440 billion-euro
($585 billion) European Financial Stability Facility, set up in
May and due to expire in mid-2013. Aid from the central EU
budget and International Monetary Fund make up the rest of the
current 750 billion-euro rescue package.  ECB-Addicted Banks  Meanwhile, ECB officials are focusing on how to reduce
banks’ reliance on emergency liquidity measures, according to
comments last week by Governing Council members  Mario Draghi  and
 Yves Mersch .  German and French leaders have pledged to do whatever is
necessary to defend the currency. The euro’s survival is “non-
negotiable,” requiring budget vigilance and closer economic
cooperation to overcome “structural weaknesses” within the
region, German Chancellor  Angel Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said on Dec. 10 after a meeting in the German
town of Freiburg.  EU officials are considering measures that would allow the
region’s rescue fund to buy bonds of distressed governments, the
Financial Times reported today, citing people involved in the
meetings. They are also considering allowing short-term credit
lines to nations struggling to borrow but not in need of
bailouts, the paper said.  Berlusconi Confidence  Investors may also focus on Italy, where Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  faces a no-confidence vote. Lawmakers in Rome
began debating a no-confidence motion today and the voting,
scheduled for tomorrow, will determine whether Italy’s richest
man can sustain his government, whose term still has two years.  The yield premium on Italy’s 10-year debt over comparable
German bunds, Europe’s benchmark, more than doubled this year,
reaching a euro-era high of 212 basis points Nov. 30. It was at
162 basis points today.  “Italy needs to be looked at carefully,” said Owen, who
noted debt equivalent to 116 percent of output as a concern. The
reality is that “if the markets perceive that Italy has a
problem, then Italy has a problem.”  A sovereign default in Europe could throw the entire region
back into recession, Ernst & Young said in a report released
today. “The euro zone’s political leadership is confronted with
an existential challenge to the well-being” of the region,
Ernst & Young Partner  Mark Otty  wrote.  ‘Very Reluctant’  Any further spreading of the debt crisis may increase
pressure on the ECB to step up its bond-purchase program.  “The problem is that that various parties with the ECB are
very reluctant to do that,” Owen said. “The question is
whether events will overtake them.”  ECB officials are discussing measures to deal with banks
overly reliant on central-bank funding, Governing Council member
Mario Draghi said last week. The ECB is debating “concrete
proposals” for such banks, Draghi said, according to the
Financial Times. Such steps would be part of the ECB’s exit
strategy, he told the paper.  “We clearly have the phenomenon that some banks are
dependent on ECB refinancing,” Governing Council member Yves
Mersch told Neue Zuercher Zeitung in an interview published Dec.
11. “This is being worked on at the moment and we will probably
present a solution at one of our next meetings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  