-- EU Should Pull Financial Support If Bailout Conditions Missed, OECD Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2010-12-13T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/eu-should-pull-financial-support-if-bailout-conditions-missed-oecd-says.html
The European Union should be ready
to withdraw financial support from countries such as Greece if
the conditions attached to bailouts aren’t met and such terms
should be part of any permanent aid facility, the OECD said.  “A credible mechanism for fiscal crisis management is
required,” the  Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development  said today in one of its regular regional Economic
Surveys. “This should involve a permanent liquidity-support
mechanism subject to strong conditionality. If conditionality is
not fulfilled, financing support should be withdrawn.”  The comments underline the stakes for EU leaders as they
prepare to gather in Brussels later this week to hash out a
permanent crisis-resolution mechanism to replace the 440
billion-euro ($580 billion) stability fund created in May in an
attempt to halt the spread of the region’s sovereign-debt woes.
The current mechanism is scheduled to expire in 2013.  The Paris-based OECD, which provides policy advice for its
33 member governments, warned that the reduction of economic
imbalances with the 16-nation euro region will be a “difficult
and prolonged process in some deficit countries.” Wage cuts may
be necessary to return economies to sustainable growth, it said.  “Falls in wages and prices cannot be ruled out and in some
cases may prove inevitable,” the OECD report said. “Structural
policies have a key role in rebalancing economies. In deficit
countries, reforms can boost productivity and help bring costs
back in line. In surplus countries, structural changes could
strengthen domestic demand.”  ECB Measures  The European Central Bank’s exceptional liquidity measures
to aid banks helped ease tensions in financial markets following
the onset of the economic crisis and ensured smooth functioning
of monetary policy, the OECD said. Still, the Frankfurt-based
ECB must give careful consideration to asset prices and monetary
growth, it said.  “Consideration should continue to be given to factors that
may present risks at medium- to long-term horizons, such as
asset prices and balance-sheet growth,” the OECD said. “It is
essential that monetary analysis continue to be enhanced in
order to be effectively and systematically incorporated into the
policy process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  