-- European Stocks Gain for Sixth Day; Kazakhmys, Wellstream Rise
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-12-13T17:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/european-stock-index-futures-rise-rio-tinto-may-be-active-as-copper-gains.html
European stocks  climbed for a sixth
day, extending a two-year high, after China refrained from
raising interest rates even as inflation surged.  Kazakhmys Plc paced gains in mining shares after copper
surged to a record in London. Wellstream Plc jumped 5.8 percent
after General Electric Co. agreed to buy the oilfield-services
provider for about 800 million pounds ($1.3 billion). John Wood
Group Plc rallied 6.7 percent after agreeing to acquire PSN Ltd.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained 0.3 percent to
276.99 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, extending the longest
winning streak since July. The gauge has risen 2.2 percent over
the last six days, reaching the highest level since September
2008, as U.S. consumer confidence advanced to a six-month high
and concern subsided that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will
derail the economic recovery.  “We are seeing a bit of a relief rally on the back of the
fact that China decided not to raise interest rates over the
weekend,” said  Richard Hunter , London-based head of U.K.
equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc. “Those interest rate rises
are nonetheless expected at some point as evidenced by China’s
inflation rate. There is little question that sentiment in the
market remains fragile, particularly with low volumes, so we
could see a pull back if any negative news comes through.”  The People’s Bank of China, which last week raised reserve-
requirement ratios for banks by half a percentage point, didn’t
increase interest rates this weekend even as  consumer prices 
climbed at the fastest pace in more than two years in November.  DAX, FTSE 100  National benchmark indexes advanced in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. Germany’s  DAX Index  climbed 0.3 percent and
the U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose 0.8 percent. France’s CAC 40 rallied
0.9 percent.  Federal Reserve policy makers are due to hold their final
meeting of 2010 tomorrow and may signal that they are open to
boosting debt purchases beyond the $600 billion already
announced to spurt job growth avoid deflation. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an interview on CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes”
program aired on Dec. 5 that buying more government bonds is
“certainly possible.”  European Union leaders will this week discuss the creation
of a permanent mechanism to shore up over-indebted countries as
the European Central Bank tries to hammer out plans to aid the
region’s weakest lenders.  At a summit in Brussels on Dec. 16 and 17, the group will
confront investor skepticism about its readiness to stem a
sovereign-debt crisis that led to bailouts for Greece and
Ireland and threatens to spread.  Mining Companies  Kazakhmys increased 4.1 percent to 1,592 pence, Xstrata Plc
advanced 1.4 percent to 1,461.5 pence and Rio Tinto Group added
1.9 percent to 4,479 pence after copper jumped to a record on
the London Metal Exchange. Chinese imports of copper and
products rose 29 percent last month.  Wellstream rallied 5.8 percent to 790 pence after General
Electric agreed to buy the U.K.-based oilfield-services provider
focused on Brazil for 780 pence a share plus a special dividend
of 6 pence a share.  Wood Group  climbed 6.7 percent to 521 pence after the U.K.
oil and gas services company agreed to buy PSN for a total
enterprise value of $955 million to create the world’s leading
brownfield production services provider.  Q-Med AB surged 13 percent to 74.75 kronor after the Swiss
maker of Cetaphil skin creams agreed to be bought by Galderma SA
for as much as 7.45 billion kronor ($1.08 billion). Q-Med
shareholders other than founder and Chief Executive Officer
 Bengt Aagerup  will receive 75 kronor a share cash.  Yule Catto  Yule Catto & Co. increased 12 percent to 290 pence after
the supplier of polymers agreed to buy a latex maker from
TowerBrook Capital Partners for 443 million euros ($585 million)
to target the market for materials used in gloves.  Rhodia SA  climbed 6 percent to 22.59 euros after Credit
Suisse Group AG initiated coverage of the chemical maker with an
“outperform” recommendation.  Renault gained 2.2 percent to 45 euros after Le Figaro
reported that full-year sales may reach 38 billion euros, up
from 33.7 billion euros in 2009. The newspaper did not say where
it obtained the information.  Edison SpA  sank 7.3 percent to 86.2 euro cents as people
with direct knowledge of the situation said Italy’s second-
largest power producer is weighing a capital increase of more
than 1 billion euros to strengthen its balance sheet.  “This option has never been taken into consideration by
any of its company organs,” Edison said in a statement in
response to the report.  Intercell AG  plunged 41 percent to 10 euros after a vaccine
patch to prevent diarrhea in travelers failed in two patient
studies, prompting the company to forecast a wider loss.
Deutsche Bank AG lowered its recommendation for the Vienna-based
company to “sell” from “buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 