-- Evonik to Sell Its Steag Unit to Municipal Utilities
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-12-13T16:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/evonik-to-sell-its-steag-unit-to-municipal-utilities-update1-.html
Evonik Industries AG, the German
chemical company part-owned by CVC Capital Partners Ltd., said
its management board has decided to sell 51 percent of its Steag
power generation unit to a group of German municipal utilities.  The group, which is led by the city of Duisburg’s  utility ,
also agreed to buy the remaining stake at a later point through
a put option, Essen-based Evonik said in an e-mailed statement
today. The chemical company, which declined to provide details
of the transaction, said its supervisory board must still
approve the decision.  Evonik, in which private equity firm CVC holds a 25 percent
stake, is selling Steag to raise funds for its chemicals
business. The buyer would get the fifth-largest portfolio of
electricity generators in Germany, assets in the  Philippines ,
 Turkey  and Colombia, as well as a power-plant construction
business.  The local utilities were competing against Energeticky a
Prumyslovy Holding AS of the Czech Republic in the bidding,
people familiar with the matter said last month. The municipal
utilities valued Steag at 3.8 billion euros ($5.1 billion),
including debt, in their bid and offered about 600 million euros
for 51 percent, one person said at the time.  The local utilities bid 649 million euros for the stake,
compared with EPH’s 645 million euros, Westdeutsche Allgemeine
Zeitung reported today, without saying where it got the
information. EPH couldn’t be immediately reached by telephone
for comment.  German States  "We’re happy about the decision by Evonik’s management,"
Hermann Janning, head of Stadtwerke Duisburg AG and
representative of the group of utilities, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Politicians from the German states of North Rhine-
Westphalia, Saarland, the federal government as well as the
country’s IG BCE union supervise the management of the RAG
foundation, which owns the remaining 74.9 percent of Evonik. RAG
is trusted with funding  Germany ’s exit from deep-shaft coal-
mining by selling the industry’s assets as well as Evonik.  The local utilities were the frontrunner to buy Steag
because they had the support from the state governments and
labor representatives which control Evonik’s biggest
shareholder, people familiar with the auction said in October.  Evonik’s management “is happy that they managed to find an
attractive partner with the group of local utilities that will
push forward with the further strategic development of the power
business,” Evonik said in today’s statement. “This will also
help secure jobs at Evonik Steag.”  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest utility, gets some of its
power from Steag under multi-year contracts and the Evonik unit
also operates generators at  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Total SA (FP) 
refineries in the country, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  