-- Favre's Record Start Streak Ends at 297 Games; Playing Career May Be Over
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-14T05:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/favre-won-t-play-for-vikings-against-giants-ending-record-297-nfl-starts.html
Brett Favre ’s record streak of 297
straight starts has ended. His National Football League playing
career may also be over.  For the first time in 18 years, Favre was inactive on game
day and stood on the sidelines in warm-up gear as the Minnesota
Vikings lost 21-3 to the New York Giants last night.  With his throwing hand still numb from a shoulder injury
suffered last week, the 41-year-old Favre was replaced at
quarterback by  Tarvaris Jackson  as the Vikings recorded their
fewest offensive yards in a game since 2006.  “There wasn’t really a flood of emotions,” Favre said
during a news conference. “I just couldn’t play. I didn’t think
I could function good enough to help us win.”  The end of the streak comes in a season in which the three-
time NFL Most Valuable Player has been hampered by injuries and
became the subject of a two-month NFL investigation into whether
he sent lewd messages to a former female co-worker.  A year after leading the Vikings within one win of the
Super Bowl while passing for 33 touchdowns and a career-low
seven interceptions, Favre has 10 touchdowns and a league-high
18 interceptions. The Vikings fell to 5-8 with last night’s loss
at Detroit’s Ford Field and will miss the NFL postseason for the
first time in three years.  Favre has said this will be his last year in the NFL. With
three games left, his ability to play again will depend on the
severity of the injury. Favre says he may have trauma to a nerve
in the shoulder and will have more medical tests today.  “I’m not going to play again if I can’t feel my hand,”
said Favre, who holds NFL passing records for yards, touchdowns,
completions and interceptions. “It’s not so much the pain, it’s
the tingling. It’d be foolish to even consider playing if you
don’t have total feeling in five fingers.”  Favre’s Streak  Favre’s record run began Sept. 27, 1992, in a 17-3 win over
Pittsburgh. He’s also started 24 playoff games during his
career, boosting his overall run to 321 straight starts.  “It’s the greatest record in sports,” Hall of Fame
quarterback  Troy Aikman , now an NFL analyst for Fox, said during
last night’s telecast. “I don’t think it will ever be broken.
Not only did he play 20 years, but you’ve got to be healthy.”  Favre got an extra day of rest when yesterday’s game was
pushed back from Sunday and moved to Detroit after the roof of
the Minneapolis Metrodome gave way under the weight of 17 inches
(43 centimeters) of snow. It wasn’t enough for Favre, who
sprained a joint in his throwing shoulder during the first
quarter of a Dec. 5 win against Buffalo.  Favre didn’t practice last week because of the injury,
which he said made it painful to even put on a shirt.  “I’ve played through a lot of stuff, but I think this is
something different,” said Favre. “I have to be more
cautious.”  Selling Footballs  By the time last night’s game started, Favre’s website was
 selling signed footballs  commemorating his streak for $499.  Indianapolis Colts quarterback  Peyton Manning  is now the
active leader with 205 consecutive regular-season starts.  Manning, 34, began his streak in 1998 and under the current
16-game schedule must play until Week 10 of the 2016 season to
pass Favre.  Giants quarterback  Eli Manning , who made his 100th
consecutive start last night, was 11 years old when Favre’s
streak began. The Manning brothers are among only four other
quarterbacks in NFL history to start more than 100 straight
games. ESPN said 237 quarterbacks have started an NFL game since
Favre’s streak began.  “It’s been a great run. I will not hang my head one bit
because it ended,” Favre said. “It’s been pretty amazing.”  Playing Through Injury  Favre, who was talked into returning for a 20th NFL season
when three teammates traveled to his home in Mississippi during
the preseason, had extended his streak through a series of
injuries this year.  The 11-time Pro Bowl selection was bothered by tendinitis
in his elbow and suffered two fractures in his foot during an
Oct. 24 loss to the Green Bay Packers, the team he spent 16
seasons with. One week later, Favre was knocked out of a loss to
the New England Patriots when he was struck in the jaw and
needed stitches to close a cut on his chin.  Favre also traded verbal barbs with former Vikings coach
 Brad Childress , who was fired last month.  Favre, who has been married for 14 years, met with the NFL
about allegations that he sent graphic photos and suggestive
messages to a female co-worker while he was with the Jets in
2008. Favre still may face discipline from the league.  “When you think back, I’ll think more about last season
than I will about this season,” Favre said. “But you take the
good with the bad. I knew that coming into this season --
there’s no guarantees.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 