-- Feinberg to Offer Oil-Spill Victims Quicker Payments
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2010-12-13T18:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/feinberg-said-to-offer-oil-spill-victims-fast-track-compensation-process.html
Kenneth Feinberg , administrator of
the $20 billion  BP Plc  oil-spill claims fund faulted for slow
payments to victims, is offering a quicker process to final
compensation.  Individuals would get $5,000 and businesses $25,000 within
two weeks if they accept a fast-track payment process, Feinberg
told reporters today on a conference call. Only recipients who
received emergency payments are eligible, he said. The checks
would be the final, lump-sum payments and in return the
claimants must waive their rights to sue BP and the companies
involved in the Gulf of Mexico spill.  “This is the quick-payment option,” Feinberg said. The
adjustment was made to meet the needs of a diverse group of
applicants, he said. “One size does not fit all.”  Government officials and residents of the Gulf Coast have
criticized Feinberg and the Gulf Coast Claims Facility he runs
for not ruling on claims quickly enough. Businesses face
“imminent failure,” Representative  Jo Bonner , an Alabama
Republican, told Feinberg in a Nov. 23 letter. Associate U.S.
Attorney General  Tom Perrelli  said he had “concerns about the
pace of the process” in a Nov. 19 letter.  Claimants who forego the $5,000 or $25,000 payments may
apply instead for interim payments on a quarterly basis, or for
final payments in excess of the fast-track limits. Claimants
have three years to seek interim and final payments. The
deadline for applying for emergency payments was Nov. 23.  Backlog Cleared  A backlog of emergency claims will be cleared by Dec. 15,
as Perrelli requested, Feinberg told reporters. Jessica Smith, a
spokeswoman for the Justice Department, said the agency is
pleased Feinberg “heeded our call.”  Compensation for the quick-pay option is based on the size
of emergency payments so far and wasn’t a number “picked out of
the sky,” Feinberg said. The option doesn’t require claimants
to supply additional documentation.  A few spill victims are seeking higher levels of
compensation than offered by the quick-payment plan. Feinberg
said some final claims have been filed for damages in the
“double-digit millions.”  The claims facility will release the methodology used to
calculate final payments as early as next week, he said.  The Wall Street Journal and the New York Times reported on
the new payment system earlier today.  As of Dec. 11, the  claims fund had received  463,795 claims
and had written checks for almost $2.48 billion to more than
166,000 people and businesses, according to the Gulf Coast
Claims Facility’s website. More than 232,400 claimants had been
denied.  About 2,000 to 3,000 claims are “very suspicious,” and
may be fraudulent, Feinberg said.  The fund will provide claimants free access to attorneys
before signing away their legal rights. The facility will also
hire local workers on site to help handle claims, Feinberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 