-- Fewer U.S. Homes Were `Under Water' in Third Quarter as Foreclosures Rose
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-12-13T17:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/fewer-u-s-homes-were-under-water-in-third-quarter-as-foreclosures-rose.html
The number of U.S. homes worth less
than the debt owed on them dropped in the third quarter, largely
because of mounting foreclosures rather than a rise in property
values, according to  CoreLogic Inc .  About 10.8 million homes, or 22.5 percent of those with
mortgages, were “underwater” as of Sept. 30, the Santa Ana,
California-based real estate information company said in a
report today. That was down from 11 million, or 23 percent, at
the end of June, the third straight quarterly decline.  Falling property values and  unemployment  near 10 percent
have spurred a surge in foreclosures. The number of homes
offered in foreclosure auctions averaged 110,000 a month in the
third quarter compared with about 98,000 in the same period a
year earlier, said  Mark Fleming , CoreLogic’s chief economist.  “There are two ways to reduce negative equity,” Fleming
said in a telephone interview today. “Price appreciation or
disposition, which means people getting taken out of their
homes. At the moment, there’s more disposition.”  A further decline in prices threatens to increase the
number of homeowners with negative equity, Fleming said. U.S.
home values will probably drop $1.7 trillion this year after
rising foreclosures and the expiration of buyer tax credits that
boosted demand early in the year, Zillow Inc. said Dec. 9. More
than $1 trillion of the drop came in the second half, according
to Zillow, a Seattle-based real estate data company.  2012 Bottom  The asset value of real estate held by U.S. households
fell by $649 billion in the third quarter to $16.6 trillion, the
Federal Reserve  said  Dec. 9. Home prices may drop as much as 11
percent more through the first quarter of 2012 before finding a
bottom, according to a Morgan Stanley report last week.  “House prices are going to fall more next spring and that
will bring more negative equity,” Fleming said.  Negative equity discourages homeowners from maintaining
their property or their payments, “because their financial
interest (the equity) has disappeared and has only a small
prospect of returning soon,” CoreLogic said.  About 2.4 million borrowers had less than 5 percent equity
in their home from June through September, bringing the total
amount of mortgaged homes underwater or near negative equity to
27.5 percent.  Banks seized a record of 288,345 homes in the third
quarter, up 7 percent from the previous three months and 22
percent from a year earlier, RealtyTrac Inc., an Irvine,
California-based real estate data service, said in October.  Nevada Leads  In Nevada, 67 percent of homes with mortgages were
underwater in the third quarter, more than any state, CoreLogic
said. It also has the highest rate of foreclosure filings, with
one in 79 households receiving a notice of default or
foreclosure in October, according to RealtyTrac.  Arizona had the second-highest percentage of underwater
homes, at 49 percent, followed by Florida at 46 percent,
Michigan at 38 percent and California at 32 percent, CoreLogic
data show.  States with the lowest rate of underwater homes included
Oklahoma at 6 percent, New York at 7 percent, Pennsylvania and
North Dakota at 7.4 percent and Montana at 7.7 percent.  The total value of negative equity in the period was $744
billion, compared with $800 billion at the end of 2009.  The report is based on data from 48 million properties with
mortgages, comparing public records of outstanding debt on
first- and second-liens with CoreLogic’s proprietary valuation
models for residential properties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 