-- Orange Juice Jumps to Three-Year High as Florida Freeze May Damage Citrus
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-12-13T19:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/florida-declares-emergency-as-severe-cold-threatens-to-destroy-orange-crop.html
Orange-juice futures jumped to the
highest since May 2007 after Florida, the world’s second-biggest
citrus grower, declared a state of emergency amid severe cold
and the prospects of crop damage.  Governor  Charles Crist  said “extreme temperatures”
threaten the state with a “major disaster.” Some areas may be
subject to freezes through Dec. 15, Crist said in a  statement  on
Dec. 10, citing National Weather Service forecasts. Prices
jumped as much as 6.2 percent.  “This kind of temperature will freeze the fruit,” said
 Jimmy Tintle , an analyst at Transworld Futures in Tampa,
Florida. “The market will remain bullish until we are able to
ascertain the extent of damage.”  Orange juice for January delivery advanced 6.35 cents, or 4
percent, to settle at $1.6695 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York. Earlier, the price surged by the exchange
limit of 10 cents to $1.706, the highest since May 9, 2007.  The commodity has gained 29 percent this year amid concern
that adverse weather would damage Florida’s groves.  The crop is at risk of “light” damage from freezing
temperatures tonight, said  Jason Nicholls , a senior
meteorologist at  AccuWeather Inc.  Temperatures in central and
northern regions may fall to 26 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 3.3
degrees Celsius) to 34 degrees tonight, he said.  “The coldest night is actually tonight,” Nicholls said.
The fruit can be damaged when temperatures fall below 28 degrees
for several hours, he said.  “If it gets down to 26, it will only be for a few hours,”
he said. “Tomorrow, we won’t see much of a problem.”  Florida will produce 143 million boxes of oranges in the
harvest that began in October and runs into July, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture said on Dec. 10. That was down from an
October estimate of 146 million boxes.  Last year, output dropped to 133.6 million boxes, the
second-smallest crop in two decades, after a January freeze
damaged fruit.  Brazil is the world’s biggest grower.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  