-- U.K. FSA Says It's Unable to Publish RBS Report Without Bank's Permission
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-12-13T17:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/fsa-unable-to-publish-rbs-report-without-permission-sants-says.html
The U.K.’s  Financial Services
Authority  wasn’t able to publish its supervisory report on Royal
 Bank of Scotland Group Plc  without permission from the banks and
individuals involved in the investigation.  The FSA is prohibited under U.K. and European Union law
“to publish information collected through a supervisory
investigation” without permission, said  Hector Sants , chief
executive officer of the agency. Lawmakers should review whether
the Prudential Regulatory Authority, which will replace the FSA
in 2012, should have more power to release data, he said.  The FSA cleared RBS and former executives including ex-
Chief Executive Officer  Fred Goodwin  in the Dec. 2 report, which
faulted the bank for “a series of bad decisions” before the
financial crisis. Edinburgh-based RBS posted the biggest loss in
corporate history in 2008 and required a bailout of 45.5 billion
pounds ($72 billion) following its acquisition of ABN Amro
Holding NV.  “I’m extremely sympathetic to those people who argued that
the FSA should publish the report,” Sants said at a conference
in London. “There isn’t actually a report we can put
immediately” into the public domain, Sants said. It would take
the FSA “several months” to turn the investigation files into
a readable report.  The FSA was probing the 2007 ABN Amro takeover, conduct by
RBS executives and a 2008 rights offering. The regulator said in
March 2009 it would examine senior managers of banks that
collapsed or accepted government money.  RBS spokeswoman  Linda Harper  declined to comment today.  Cable ‘Disappointed’  Liberal Democrat Business Secretary  Vince Cable , in a
letter to  Adair Turner , chairman of the FSA, urged the FSA to
publish any report into whether the lender’s former executives
broke regulatory rules in the run-up to the 2008 bailout. In the
letter, Cable said he was “disappointed” the findings weren’t
public.  U.K. Treasury minister  Mark Hoban  said the report’s
publication is a matter for the regulator.  “It’s a matter for the FSA, not for the government,”
Hoban told a panel of lawmakers in the House of Commons in
London today. “They have issues around confidentiality of that
report. I can honestly say we haven’t seen the report either.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said in June he
will abolish the Financial Services Authority and give most of
its power to the Bank of England, undoing the regulatory system
set up by  Gordon Brown  in 1997.  New Regulators  The FSA will be wound down and replaced by at least two
bodies. A Prudential Regulatory Authority will be created as a
subsidiary of the central bank. Sants said the PRA will be more
focused on reducing the impact of firm failure than the FSA has
been and relatively less on reducing the probability of failure.  The PRA will not be attempting to pursue a “zero failure
regime,” Sants said in the speech at Thomson Reuters Corp.’s
offices in London. “Persuading society that this is an
acceptable goal will be a challenge.”  Osborne will also set up a Financial Policy Committee at
the bank and establish a consumer protection and markets agency.  Sants said that the new regulators will move toward more
rules-based approaches to consumer protection rather than
relying on market disciplines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  