-- Q-Med, Swedish Cosmetic-Treatment Maker, Agrees to Be Acquired by Galderma
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2010-12-13T15:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/galderma-agrees-to-acquire-q-med-for-1-1-billion-to-gain-wrinkle-smoother.html
Galderma SA , the Swiss maker of
Cetaphil skin creams, agreed to buy Sweden’s  Q-Med AB  for as
much as 7.45 billion kronor ($1.08 billion) to add products that
smooth wrinkles and enhance breasts.  Q-Med  shareholders other than founder and Chairman  Bengt Aagerup  will receive 75 kronor a share in cash, the Swedish
company said in a statement today. That’s 13 percent more than
the stock’s Dec. 10 closing price of 66.25 kronor. The stock
rose as much as 15 percent, the most in 19 months, after the
announcement. Galderma,  founded  in 1981, is owned by  L’Oreal SA 
and Nestle SA.  The purchase will add to Lausanne, Switzerland-based
Galderma’s roster of cosmetic treatments. Q-Med’s Restylane
injection can be used separately or in combination with  Allergan
Inc.’s  Botox wrinkle smoother. The Swedish company also makes
 Macrolane , a gel that’s injected to give breasts volume.  “The deal makes sense for both L’Oreal and Nestle as they
will benefit from cooperation in developing skin-care products
and even value-added nutrition,” said  Barbara Ambrus , an
analyst at Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart, Germany.  Aagerup’s Lyftet Holding BV, which owns  47.5 percent  of Q-
Med, has committed to accept the offer in return for 58.94
kronor a share in cash, according to the statement. The founder
may receive additional cash payments if financial and business
goals are met, for a total price of 74.96 kronor a share, the
company said.  Public Offer  Nestle and L’Oreal will each provide half of the funds used
to finance the transaction, Galderma said in a separate
 statement . The amount won’t require a major charge for Nestle,
said Ambrus, who said she expects the company to spend about 5
billion Swiss francs ($5.1 billion) on investments this year.  Galderma will make a public offer for Q-Med shares from
about Jan. 4 to Jan. 25, Q-Med said. The Swedish company’s board
unanimously recommended that shareholders accept the offer.
Aagerup hasn’t participated in the board’s dealings over the
offer from Galderma, Q-Med said. The offer is conditional on
approval from  Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. , a business partner
of Q-Med’s, the company said.  “It is important from an industrial point of view that we
get a strong partner that has muscles to be a bit more resilient
than on a quarterly basis, which was our reality as a listed
company in Sweden,” Aagerup said in a telephone interview. Q-
Med talked to other potential buyers but “nobody else was
interested at this level,” he said.  Sensitive Skin  Galderma’s  Cetaphil  product line includes cleansers,
moisturizers and sunscreens for damaged or sensitive skin. It
also markets Azzalure, a Botox competitor manufactured by Ipsen
SA.  Q-Med rose 8.50 kronor, or 13 percent, to 74.75 kronor at
3:35 p.m. in Stockholm trading. Before today, the shares had
returned 40 percent this year including reinvested dividends,
 compared with  a 23 percent return for the OMX Stockholm 30
Index.  Aagerup founded the company in 1987 to bring to market his
research on hyaluronic acid, a chemical naturally present in the
body that can be used for wound-healing, joint pain and to
create volume under the skin.  Q-Med stabilized and patented a form of the acid, according
to the company’s website. Its first product,  Restylane , won
approval in Europe in 1996 to fill out wrinkles and plump lips.
The company first sold shares on the Stockholm stock exchange in
1999.  Galderma would gain five products derived from hyaluronic
acid including Restylane, which works differently from its own
Azzalure.  Azzalure, like Botox, is based on a purified form of the
poison botulinum and works by freezing the facial muscles.
Restylane, by contrast, creates a cushion under the skin that
smoothes out the wrinkles.  Nordea Corporate Finance advised Q-Med, while Credit Suisse
Group AG and Swedbank Corporate Finance served as advisers to
Galderma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net . 