-- GE Agrees to Acquire U.K. Oil-Services Company Wellstream for $1.3 Billion
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2010-12-13T07:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/ge-agrees-to-acquire-u-k-oil-services-company-wellstream-for-1-3-billion.html
General Electric Co.  agreed to buy
 Wellstream Holdings Plc , a U.K.-based oilfield-services provider
focused on Brazil, for 800 million pounds ($1.3 billion) in the
company’s second purchase in the industry this year.  Wellstream’s stockholders will receive 786 pence a share,
including a 6 pence special cash dividend, GE said today in a
statement, sweetening an offer of 755 pence that was rebuffed in
October. The bid is 29.1 percent higher than Wellstream’s
closing price on Sept. 20, the day prior to when the British
company announced it had received approaches.  Buying Wellstream supports Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt ’s strategy to build up GE’s industrial business while
shrinking the finance unit as a source of sales and profit. He
said in October that GE had about $20 billion in discretionary
cash to spend as he unlocks a war chest amassed over two years.  The acquisition will be added to the GE Oil & Gas unit.
GE agreed to buy oil-field equipment maker Dresser Inc. for
about $3 billion in October. The oil and gas unit is part of the
GE Energy Infrastructure segment, a business Immelt has said he
wants to expand. GE Energy Infrastructure provided $37 billion
of Fairfield, Connecticut-based’s $157 billion in 2009 sales.  Wellstream, based in Newcastle Upon Tyne, England, reported
2009 sales of 386.1 million pounds, with Brazil accounting for
more than half that revenue, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company’s products include pipelines and risers used in
underwater oil-field operations. The shares rose 41 percent this
year through Dec. 10 in London trading, buoyed by takeover
speculation ahead of today’s agreement.  With Dresser, GE added industrial valves and pumps to
challenge companies such as Tyco International Ltd., Flowserve
Corp. and Emerson Electric Co. Other energy-unit acquisitions
this year included the waste-heat power generation business of
closely held Calnetix Inc. for an undisclosed sum.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;  Rachel Layne  in Boston at   rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  