-- Wellstream Brings GE Energy to $4.3 Billion in Deals
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2010-12-13T21:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/ge-to-buy-wellstream-for-780-pence-a-share-plus-special-dividend.html
General Electric Co.’s agreement
today to buy Wellstream Holdings Plc brings its acquisitions of
natural gas- and oil-exploration equipment makers to $4.3
billion in the past two months as Chief Executive Officer
 Jeffrey Immelt  taps emerging market growth and energy demand.  GE’s purchase, valued at 800 million pounds ($1.3 billion)
and offering sales and earnings multiples in line with industry
averages, follows the company’s agreement to buy Dresser Inc.
for $3 billion in October.  Wellstream expands GE’s operations in Brazil, where  Exxon
Mobil Corp. ,  BG Group Plc  and state-controlled  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA  may need to spend more on the U.K.-based company’s
flexible pipes and risers to ramp up energy production. The
deepwater Tupi and Libra fields, discovered in the past three
years, together may contain more than 20 billion barrels of oil.  “Subsea growth will come from Brazil,”  Claudi Santiago ,
chief executive officer of GE Oil & Gas, said in a telephone
interview. “Brazil is one of many reasons” buying Wellstream
made sense, he said.  The purchase reflects probable acceleration in offshore oil
and gas investment worldwide,  Nicholas Heymann , an analyst with
Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in New York, wrote in a note to
investors today.  “Since 2005, the global deepwater fleet has doubled, and
we believe further deepwater field investments will be needed as
global demand for energy continues,” said Heymann, who has a
“neutral” rating on the stock. “Importantly, Wellstream has
little Gulf of Mexico exposure, a region where development has
slowed sharply.”  Brazil Operation  Buying Wellstream supports  Immelt ’s strategy to build up
GE’s industrial business while shrinking the finance unit as a
source of sales and profit. Immelt said in October that GE had
about $20 billion in discretionary cash to spend as he unlocks a
war chest amassed over two years.  GE’s offer is approximately 2.1 times the oil- and gas-
pipeline maker’s annual sales, in line with the median of 30
deals in the past five years.  The deal would pay 13.2 times Wellstream’s earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, compared with the
median of 13.6 in 26 acquisitions. Robbins & Myers Inc. paid
15.6 times ebitda for T-3 Energy Services Inc. in October,
Bloomberg data show.  The acquisition will be added to the GE Oil & Gas unit,
which generated $7.7 billion in sales last year.  The oil and gas unit is part of the GE Energy
Infrastructure segment, a business Immelt has said he wants to
expand. Energy Infrastructure provided $37 billion of Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE’s $157 billion in 2009 sales.  Wellstream Sales  Wellstream, based in Newcastle Upon Tyne, England, reported
2009 sales of 386.1 million pounds, with  Brazil  accounting for
more than half that revenue, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  GE said in November it would spend $500 million to expand
energy, transportation and health-care manufacturing in Brazil
while adding its fifth global research center.  With Dresser, GE adds industrial valves and pumps to
challenge companies such as Tyco International Ltd., Flowserve
Corp. and Emerson Electric Co. Other energy-unit  acquisitions 
this year included the waste-heat power generation business of
closely held Calnetix Inc. for an undisclosed sum.  Wellstream shares rose 43 pence, or 5.8 percent, to 790
pence in London trading today. The company’s stock has gained 49
percent this year, higher than the 32 percent average among its
peers,  according to Bloomberg data .  GE’s revised offer is 29 percent higher than Wellstream’s
closing price on Sept. 20, the day before the British company
said it had received approaches.  GE  fell  10 cents to $17.62 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 16 percent
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at   rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  