-- Genoptix Said to Seek Sale, Hire Barclays to Run Auction to Find Buyers
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-12-14T21:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/genoptix-cancer-test-maker-said-to-seek-buyers-hire-barclays-for-auction.html
Genoptix  Inc., a cancer testing
company, put itself up for sale, said two people with knowledge
of the process. The shares gained 17 percent.  Genoptix hired Barclays Plc to run an auction, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the matter is
private. Genoptix, based in Carlsbad, California, had a market
value of about $369 million at the close of trading today.  Genoptix provides laboratory tests and services to doctors
for diagnosing cancer. Sales have been hurt by unemployment in
the U.S, which has reduced the number of patients seeking care
from blood specialists and cancer doctors who use the tests,
said  Amanda Murphy , an analyst at William Blair & Co. in
Chicago.  “Given the recent difficulties the company has faced from
a competitive standpoint and the recent increase in M&A
transactions in the lab space, I am not surprised Genoptix would
be seeking alternative options,” Murphy said in an e-mail.  Genoptix increased $3 to $20.98 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, for the biggest single-
day gain since Nov. 7, 2008. The  stock  fell 49 percent this year
before today.  Genoptix is currently trading at  7.8 times earnings  before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, higher than the
median premium of 6.1 times ebitda paid for publicly traded U.S.
diagnostics companies acquired over the past five years.  Quest, Sonic  Quest Diagnostics Inc. , based in Madison, New Jersey, and
Sydney-based  Sonic Healthcare Ltd.  are among companies that may
be interested in acquiring Genoptix, Murphy said.  “As a policy, we do not comment on rumors or speculation
about M&A activity,” Wendy Bost, a Quest Diagnostics
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Colin Goldschmidt , Sonic
Healthcare’s chief executive, didn’t respond to an e-mail
seeking comment.  Marcy Graham , executive director of investor relations for
Genoptix, declined to comment in a telephone interview.  The market for specialized medical tests is about $1.5
billion, Murphy said. Genoptix reported  net income  of $30.6
million on revenue of $184 million last year. “Complicating any
sale is the dramatic company growth deceleration and long-term
questions on pricing stability,”  Stephen Shankman , an analyst
at UBS Investment Research in New York, wrote in a note to
investors yesterday.  Genoptix’s sales may grow only 5.5 percent, to $194.5
million in 2010 after jumping nearly 59 percent in 2009,
Shankman said in his note.  There have been 185 acquisitions in the U.S. medical lab
and test services business in the past five years, with an
average disclosed price of $66.5 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sonic was the industry’s busiest
purchaser, announcing seven U.S.  acquisitions  during that time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  