-- Spanish Bonds Decline for Sixth Straight Day Before This Week's Debt Sales
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-12-13T17:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/german-bonds-decline-as-stock-rally-saps-demand-for-safety-of-fixed-income.html
Spanish 10-year government bonds
declined for a sixth consecutive day before debt sales this
week, as European Union leaders prepared to discuss the creation
of a permanent regional crisis mechanism.  German government bonds were little changed. Spain, which
plans to sell 4.85 percent 2020 securities and 4.65 percent 2025
debt on Dec. 16, is the only euro-region nation apart from Italy
that is scheduled to issue bonds for the rest of this year.
Portuguese 10-year debt declined as the European Central Bank
said it increased bond purchases last week.  “The Spanish auctions are in the air, giving the bonds a
hard time as the dealer community makes room to get the new
issue on board,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist
at Commerzbank AG in London. “EU leaders are unlikely to
deliver a solution this time round, and that is underpinning
bunds.”  The Spanish 10-year yield rose six basis points to 5.49
percent at 4:31 p.m. in London. The 4.85 percent security due
October 2020 fell 0.435, or 4.35 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,323)
face amount, to 95.155. The bund yield was two basis points
higher at 2.98 percent.  The difference in yield, or spread, between Spanish and
German 10-year yields widened three basis points to 248 points,
according to Bloomberg generic prices. It reached a euro-era
record of 298 basis points on Nov. 30. The  Portuguese-German
spread  widened two basis points to 332 basis points, while the
Italian spread also grew one basis point, to 161 basis points.  The euro rallied 1.2 percent to $1.3384. The Europe Stoxx
600 Index gained 0.3 percent.  EU Divisions  Spanish and Portuguese securities fell last week,
underperforming German bunds, as European lawmakers’ divisions
on a potential joint security for the area eroded confidence
they will be able to end the region’s debt crisis.  European Union leaders will meet on Dec. 16 and 17 to
discuss the creation of a permanent mechanism to shore up over-
indebted countries as the European Central Bank tries to hammer
out plans to aid the region’s weakest lenders.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told ARD
Television yesterday he expects an EU agreement on a permanent
crisis facility. ECB officials are focusing on how to reduce
banks’ reliance on emergency liquidity, according to comments
last week by Governing Council members  Mario Draghi  and  Yves Mersch .  Distressed Governments  EU officials are considering measures that would allow the
region’s rescue fund to buy bonds of distressed governments, the
Financial Times reported today, citing people involved in the
meetings. They are also considering allowing short-term credit
lines to nations struggling to borrow but not in need of
bailouts, the paper said.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said it completed 2.667 billion
euros ($3.56 billion) of purchases after settling 1.965 billion
euros the previous week. It will take seven-day term deposits
tomorrow to neutralize 72 billion euros of liquidity created by
bond purchases since the program started on May 10.  The ECB said on Dec. 2 that it will extend emergency
liquidity measures for banks into the second quarter of 2011
after Ireland’s rescue package failed to quell market turmoil.
ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on that day that the
bank’s bond purchases remain “temporary in nature.”  “It is, of course, a substantive increase from the volume
in preceding weeks,” said  Luca Jellinek , head of European
interest-rate strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment
Bank. “It is not, however, very large compared to average
supply amounts in the European government bond market or even
compared to the buying last May, which was in double figures.”  Spain is due to sell 364-day and 553-day Treasury bills
tomorrow, as well as the bonds on Dec. 16.  German bonds returned 6 percent this year, compared with
5.6 percent for U.S. Treasuries and 6 percent for U.K. gilts,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds lost
4.7 percent, while Italian bonds earned 0.3 percent, the indexes
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  