-- German Investor Confidence Probably Increased for Second Month in December
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-12-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/german-investor-confidence-probably-increased-for-second-month-in-december.html
German  investor confidence  probably
rose for a second month in December as Europe’s largest economy
powered ahead of its euro-area neighbors.  The  ZEW Center for European Economic Research  in Mannheim
will say its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which
aims to predict developments six months in advance, increased to
3.9 from 1.8 in November, according to the median forecast of 36
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . The ZEW releases the
report at 11 a.m. today.  Germany’s economy has fueled the euro region’s expansion
this year as companies stepped up  hiring  and output to meet
export demand, encouraging consumer spending.  Business
confidence  surged to a record high in November. While countries
from Spain to Ireland are seeking to revive growth and push down
budget deficits, the Bundesbank on Dec. 3 projected the fastest
expansion since data for a reunified Germany began in 1992.  “We’re confident the economy will pick up steam again in
the middle of next year,” said  Costa Brunner , an economist at
Natixis in Frankfurt. “Domestic demand will take over the baton
from slowing exports and investor confidence should continue to
rise in the coming months.”  ZEW’s gauge measuring  sentiment  in the current situation
probably rose to 84.5 from 81.5 in November, the survey shows.
That would be the highest since July 2007.  Earnings Growth  The benchmark  DAX share index  has risen almost 10 percent
in the past two months as some of the country’s largest
companies reported faster earnings growth.  Porsche SE , the maker of the 911 sports car, said on Nov.
24 that operating profit surged more than sevenfold in the
fiscal first quarter.  Hochtief AG , Germany’s biggest
construction company, said on Nov. 11 that third-quarter profit
jumped 55 percent, beating analysts’ estimates.  Peter Bauer , chief executive officer at  Infineon
Technologies AG , Europe’s second-largest chipmaker, said last
week the sales target for the current fiscal year may be
“conservative” if the overall economy “remains strong.”  Germany’s gross domestic product will rise 3.6 percent in
2010, 2 percent in 2011 and 1.5 percent in 2012, the  Bundesbank 
said Dec. 3. By comparison, the European Commission in Brussels
last month forecast the euro-region economy to expand 1.7
percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2011.  Debt Crisis  Still, the sovereign-debt crisis may curb Germany’s
economic expansion as governments step up austerity measures to
fight the fiscal crisis. European Union leaders at a summit in
Brussels this week will discuss the creation of a permanent
mechanism to shore up debt-burdened countries.  German and French leaders have already pledged to do
whatever is necessary to defend the single currency. The euro’s
survival is “non negotiable,” requiring budget vigilance and
closer economic cooperation to overcome “structural
weaknesses” within the region, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said on Dec. 10.  “Markets have calmed a bit at the end of the year but that
doesn’t mean the situation has stabilized,” said  Philipp Jaeger , an economist at DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt. “At the
beginning of the year, the market focus will return to the
sovereign-debt crisis and countries’ need for refinancing and
investor confidence will probably weaken again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  