-- German Stocks Advance for Second Day; Volkswagen, BMW, K+S Lead Increase
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2010-12-13T16:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/german-stocks-gain-as-china-holds-rates-steady-volkswagen-bmw-k-s-rise.html
German stocks  climbed for a second
day after China refrained from raising interest rates even as
inflation surged and as Europe’s leaders prepared to discuss a
permanent mechanism to assist over-indebted countries.  Automakers  Volkswagen AG  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG 
rose 1.9 percent and 1.1 percent, respectively.  ThyssenKrupp AG ,
Germany’s largest steelmaker, gained 4.7 percent and  K+S AG , the
region’s largest potash supplier, climbed 1.5 percent.  The  DAX Index  advanced 0.3 percent to 7,029.39 at the 5:30
p.m. close in Frankfurt, its highest closing level since May
2008. The gauge has jumped 18 percent in 2010 as corporate
profits rose, the Federal Reserve unveiled a $600 billion bond
purchase program to assist the U.S. economic recovery and the
European Union bailed out Greece and Ireland. The broader HDAX
Index rose 0.4 percent today.  China’s consumer prices jumped 5.1 percent in November, a
statistics bureau report showed Dec. 11. A measure of wholesale
costs climbed 6.1 percent, exceeding all 28 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. Even so, the central bank
held off over the weekend on the rate move predicted by firms
including UBS AG and Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.  “China has to be careful not to let bubbles develop,”
said  Fulvio Maccarone , chief investment officer at Bank of China
(Switzerland) Fund Management SA. “If you look forward you may
see attempts by China to reduce pressure.”  Permanent Mechanism  European Union leaders will this week discuss the creation
of a permanent mechanism to shore up over-indebted countries as
the European Central Bank tries to hammer out plans to aid the
region’s weakest lenders.  At a summit in Brussels on Dec. 16 and 17, the group will
confront investor skepticism about its readiness to stem a
sovereign-debt crisis that led to bailouts for Greece and
Ireland and threatens to spread.  Volkswagen surged 1.9 percent to 131.4 euros and BMW
climbed 1.5 percent to 63.44 euros. A gauge of carmakers in the
regional  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  added 1 percent.  ThyssenKrupp soared 4.7 percent to 31.64 euros.  “Demand for cars is extremely high and companies such as
ThyssenKrupp benefit from that as they have such a high exposure
to the automotive industry,” said Lars Hettche, analyst at
Bankhaus Metzler in Frankfurt, who has a “buy” rating on the
stock. Thyssenkrupp sends around 40 percent of its steel to
carmakers, said Hettche.  K+S rose 1.5 percent to 53.9 euros after HSBC Holdings Plc
raised its price estimate for the stock to 61 euros from 58
euros. Analyst  Jesko Mayer-Wegelin  has an “overweight” rating
on the shares.  Beisersdorf AG , the Nivea skin-cream maker, lost 2.1
percent to 43.06 euros ahead of a strategy presentation on Dec.
15. “We expect consensus earnings for 2011 to come under
pressure,” wrote  Alex Molloy , analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG, in a note to clients.  Deutsche Boerse AG , Europe’s largest securities exchange,
added 1.3 percent to 50.59 euros. “Improving equity mutual fund
and hedge fund flows should underpin improving volumes and a
recovery in earnings,” wrote  Rupak Ghose , analyst at Credit
Suisse, in a note to customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 