-- Precious Metals to Lead Commodity Returns in 2011, Goldman Sachs Predicts
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-12-13T13:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/goldman-sachs-predicts-best-commodity-returns-for-2011-in-precious-metals.html
Precious metals will probably give
investors the best returns among commodities in the next year,
and livestock the worst, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  Precious metals will advance 28 percent over 12 months and
livestock 4 percent, London-based  Jeffrey Currie ,  Allison Nathan 
and other Goldman analysts said in a report today. The team
raised its 12-month forecast for the  S&P GSCI Enhanced Total
Return Index  to 18 percent from 16 percent, mostly because of
changes to agricultural estimates.  “Extreme weakness in U.S. demand over the past two years
has allowed China to grow unconstrained without any competition
for raw materials,” the Goldman analysts said in the report.
“This is likely to change in 2011 with a stronger U.S. that is
likely to bump up against a China that is consuming dramatically
more commodities than pre-crisis.”  Commodity assets under management rose $19 billion to a
record $340 billion in October, led by demand for index-linked
investments, Barclays Capital said in a report last month. Gold
rose 27 percent this year, heading for a 10th consecutive annual
advance. Investors are seeking hard assets as governments and
central banks led by the Federal Reserve pump more than $2
trillion into the world financial system.  Chinese Demand  Higher commodity prices will be needed to slow U.S.
consumption, “to make room for further Chinese demand,”
Goldman said. The raw materials most affected will be those with
the tightest supply, including crude oil, copper, cotton,
soybeans and platinum, the analysts said. The S&P GSCI Enhanced
Total Return Index gained 7 percent this year.  Gold will reach $1,690 an ounce in 12 months, from $1,390
now, and probably peak the following year, Goldman estimates.
Gold in exchange-traded products backed by the metal reached a
record 2,105 metric tons on Oct. 14 and holdings were last at
2,093 tons, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
equal to about nine years of U.S. mine output.  “A low U.S. real interest-rate environment will continue
in 2011, particularly given the resumption of quantitative
easing measures in the U.S.,” the analysts wrote. “However, as
we look toward 2012, we find it timely to reiterate our view
that at current price levels gold remains a compelling trade,
but not a long-term investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 