-- Good Cholesterol Linked to Reduced Risk of Alzheimer's, Researchers Find
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2010-12-13T23:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/good-cholesterol-linked-to-reduced-risk-of-alzheimer-s-researchers-find.html
High levels of “good” cholesterol
may help prevent Alzheimer’s disease later in life, a Columbia
University study found.  People with the most  high-density lipoprotein , or HDL, were
60 percent less likely than those with the least to develop
Alzheimer’s disease over four years, according to research
reported today in the  Archives of Neurology . LDL, or bad
cholesterol, contributes to fat buildup that clogs blood
vessels, while good cholesterol, or HDL, ferries that away.  Abbott Laboratories , based in Abbott Park, Illinois,
markets Niaspan to raise HDL. Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-
based  Merck & Co. ,  Roche Holding AG  of Basel, Switzerland, and
Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co.  are testing treatments. HDL
may lower Alzheimer’s risk by influencing how  plaque  is cleared
from the brain, said  Christiane Reitz , the lead researcher.  “Even at the age of 65, the higher the good cholesterol,
the lower your risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease,” said
Reitz, an assistant professor of neurology at Columbia
University’s Taub Institute in New York, in a Dec. 10 telephone
interview. Eating a healthy diet and getting exercise may also
help raise HDL levels.  Alzheimer’s is a disease that gradually damages brain
cells, afflicting 60 percent of those older than age 95, Reitz
said. Lilly and London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  and  AstraZeneca
Plc , are among the drugmakers whose experimental medicines,
designed to slow or stop the condition, have failed or had
setbacks in tests in recent years.  36 Million People  As Alzheimer’s progresses, the condition makes it difficult
for people to think, remember and function. About 36 million
people worldwide have the disease and different dementias,
according to the  website  of Alzheimer’s Disease International, a
London-based group.  Current therapies for the disease, including Nameda from
New York-based  Forest Laboratories Inc.  and Aricept from New
York-based  Pfizer Inc.  and Tokyo-based  Eisai Co. , address only
Alzheimer’s symptoms; they don’t cure or slow the illness.  Researchers don’t know what causes Alzheimer’s, but
evidence suggests it develops as the result of multiple factors,
according to the Chicago-based Alzheimer’s Association. Today’s
study adds to other research that has shown a link between
cholesterol, high blood pressure, diabetes and weight and the
risk of developing Alzheimer’s later in life, the  association 
said.  Manhattan Participants  Researchers in the study included 1,130 Medicare recipients
from northern Manhattan who were age 65 and older and had no
history of dementia or memory problems. They were followed for
four years.  The men and women were divided into four groups. Those in
the highest group had HDL levels of more than 55 milligrams per
deciliter of blood, while those in the lowest group had levels
of 38 or less.  Over the course of the study, 101 people developed
Alzheimer’s. Of those, 16 were in the highest HDL group and 32
were in the lowest HDL group.  The researchers also found that those with the highest HDL
were 20 percent less likely to develop the disease compared with
those in the middle two groups, Reitz said.  Total cholesterol levels consist of three components: HDL,
LDL or low-density lipoprotein and triglycerides. While high
total cholesterol can increase the risk of health problems
including heart disease, HDL is the exception and is thought to
protect against heart attack, according to the  American Heart
Association .  Heart Disease Protection  Having a HDL cholesterol level of 60 or higher gives “some
protection” against heart disease, according to the heart
association. Low HDL is less than 40 for men and less than 50
for women, the group said.  “More needs to be learned about this complex issue,” said
 William Thies , chief medical and scientific officer for the
Alzheimer’s Association, in a Dec. 10 e-mail. “The relationship
between cholesterol levels and Alzheimer’s is complex and still
needs further investigation.”  Long-term studies are needed to determine possible risk
factors for Alzheimer’s disease over the course of lives and
generations, he said. Also, more trials are needed to show if
changing lifestyles or intervening with medicines can lower the
risk of developing the disease.  Today’s study was supported by grants from the National
Institutes of Health, the Charles S. Robertson Memorial Gift for
Research in Alzheimer’s Disease and the Blanchette Hooker
Rockefeller Foundation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  