-- PIC, Growthpoint in Talks to Buy Istithmar World's V&A Mall in Cape Town
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2010-12-13T10:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/growthpoint-plans-to-issue-a-statement-on-v-a-waterfront-speculation.html
Public Investment Corp., which
manages South African state pensions, is in talks to buy the
 Victoria & Alfred Waterfront  in Cape Town, which was sold to
Istithmar World PJSC four years ago for $1 billion.  “We have not secured a transaction,”  Wayne van der Vent ,
the general manager of real-estate investment for the Pretoria-
based PIC, said in a mobile-phone interview today. “We have
always been involved in the V&A Waterfront discussions since day
one, four years ago. We have never left those negotiations.”  Istithmar World in 2006 teamed up with London & Regional
Properties and a group of local investors to buy South Africa’s
most popular retail center in the country’s biggest property
transaction. The PIC, Growthpoint Properties Ltd. and Absa Group
Ltd. have together signed an agreement to buy the V&A for 10
billion rand ($1.5 billion), Johannesburg-based newspaper Mail &
Guardian newspaper reported on Dec. 10.  Growthpoint,  South Africa’s largest publicly traded real-
estate investor, said today it recently started talks that may
affect the value of its share price, without giving more
details. The company won’t comment beyond the statement, Nadine
Kuzmanich, the head of investor relations at the Johannesburg-
based company, said. Absa is not involved in any transaction
involving the V&A, the lender said in a statement.  Shares of Growthpoint  rose  as much as 27 cents, or 1.5
percent, to 18 rand, and were trading at 17.88 rand as of 11:54
a.m. in Johannesburg. Growthpoint Chief Executive Officer
 Norbert Sasse  didn’t answer a call seeking comment to his mobile
phone, which didn’t give an option to leave a message.  Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three state-owned holding
companies, is altering the terms on $24.9 billion of debt as it
restructures business after the global credit crisis. Istithmar
World is not part of the restructuring.  The V&A, situated in Cape Town’s harbor, is the country’s
largest retail and tourism property. The PIC has assets of more
than 1 trillion rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  