-- Growth at a Low Price Is My Favorite Stock Screen: John Dorfman
-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 2010-12-13T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/growth-at-a-low-price-my-favorite-stock-screen-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html
Money managers tend to become fond
of their favorite stock screens, just as baseball players tend
to prefer one bat over others. One of my favorite screens is
growth at a low price.  I define a GALP stock as one that shows average annual
earnings growth of 25 percent or more over the past five years,
yet sells for 12 times earnings or less. For the past 11 years,
I’ve found this screen to be a fertile source for stock picking.  Thirty-nine U.S. stocks with a market value of more than
$250 million passed this screen on Dec. 7. Let’s spotlight 10 of
them.  One that excites me is  LAM Research Corp. , a Fremont,
California, company that makes semiconductor manufacturing
equipment. Of 17 analysts who follow the company, seven say to
buy the stock, four recommend selling, and six are neutral. This
type of opinion dispersion is a good sign in my view.  When views are split, the  stock  price often will split the
difference and reflect a middling view. Yet one of the extreme
views may prove correct. In this case, I believe it will be the
optimists’ view.  As I see it, semiconductor industry conditions are
improving, and LAM’s fortunes are rising more rapidly than most.
In the company’s first fiscal quarter, which ended Sept. 30,
revenue shot up to $806 million, more than double the level of a
year earlier. Diluted earnings per share hit $1.55 a share, a
record.  Caveats Abound  One negative: Fidelity Investments owns almost 19 million
shares as of Sept. 30, or about  15 percent  of the company.
Should Fidelity become a seller, the stock could be under
pressure for months.  Three companies are resurfacing from last year’s list. Two
of them are insurance-related businesses:  Life Partners Holdings
Inc.  in Waco, Texas, and  HCC Insurance Holdings Inc. , based in
Houston.  Life Partners arranges transactions between individuals who
are older than 65 or are terminally ill and want to sell their
life insurance policies and people who will buy their policies
at a discount. Emotionally, I can’t warm up to this business.
Analytically, I believe that the company may lose market share
as traditional life insurers develop competing options.  HCC Insurance operations include life, property and
casualty insurance companies along with units specializing in
marine and aviation coverage. The company has shown a profit
every year since 1992, the year it went public. I think its
stock is attractive at 10 times earnings and about one times
book value (corporate net worth).  Eroding Value  The other returnee is New York-based  M&F Worldwide Corp. , a
holding company controlled by Chairman  Ronald Perelman . It
prints checks and related products, offers direct marketing
services, and makes flavors and flavorings, especially licorice.  At less than four times earnings, M&F is cheap, but
Perelman has a poor record for creating shareholder value. He is
chairman of  Revlon Inc. , whose shareholders have lost about 70
percent of their investment over the past 10 years. Also, I
consider M&F’s debt-to-equity ratio of almost 375 percent
excessive.  The largest corporation on this list by market
capitalization is New York-based  Travelers Cos. , a property-and-
casualty insurer. Its market value is $25 billion.
Unfortunately, its seemingly high five-year growth rate is
statistically misleading, which stems largely from a subpar base
year in 2004.  Avoid Shortcuts  That illustrates an important point about using screens:
They are a starting point for analysis, not a substitute for it.  Three stocks on this year’s list are for-profit college
companies:  Corinthian Colleges Inc. , of Santa Ana, California,
 ITT Educational Services Inc. , based in Carmel, Indiana, and
 Lincoln Educational Services Corp. , of West Orange, New Jersey.  I wrote about the for-profit colleges in November. I would
avoid Corinthian, which I believe will struggle to meet new
regulatory requirements to preserve financial-aid eligibility
for its students. I think ITT and Lincoln, each at about six
times earnings, may be good buys now.  I’m favorably disposed to  Humana Inc. , a managed-care
company based in Louisville, Kentucky, even though federal
budget pressure may induce Congress to cut Medicare payments.
Humana posted record earnings of $6.15 a share in 2009 and is
expected to better that to $6.64 this year. At seven times
earnings and about 0.3 times revenue, I think the stock is
attractive.  Going Offshore  Rounding out this GALP candidates list is  Seacor Holdings
Inc. , based in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The company operates a
fleet of boats that support offshore oil platforms. Analysts
expect it to post record earnings this year as companies try to
adjust to the post-Gulf-spill world. In 2011, analysts expect
earnings to fall more than 50 percent from this year’s level. I
think they are too pessimistic there.  Unlike some of its oil-service kin, Seacor has been
consistently profitable. Like HCC Insurance, it hasn’t posted an
annual loss since it went public in 1992.  Disclosure note: I own shares of HCC personally and for
clients. I own Humana for many of my clients. On the other
stocks discussed in this week’s column, I have no long or short
positions.  ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  