-- IBM Sells $1 Billion of 18-Month Floating-Rate Bonds
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-12-13T21:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/ibm-sells-1-billion-of-notes-in-first-floating-rate-debt-sale-since-2009.html
International Business Machines
Corp. , the world’s biggest computer-services provider, sold $1
billion of 18-month floating-rate notes in its first offering of
the securities in more than a year.  The notes yield 3 basis points more than the  three-month 
London interbank offered rate, a lending benchmark for banks
that’s currently set at 0.302 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. IBM last sold floating-rate debt in
November 2009, Bloomberg data show.  IBM, based in Armonk, New York, tapped credit markets after
raising $1 billion through a sale of five-year notes a week ago.
Floating-rate debt tends to lose value when interest rates
decline because it pays less, while fixed-rate bonds become
relatively more attractive. Sales of floaters, which have
tumbled from the year’s $16.8 billion record in January, may
increase as interest rates climb, said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-
income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia.  “There’s certainly demand for them out there,” LeBas
said. “The downside is in the current environment with Libor
trending at 30 basis points, the current coupon of floating-rate
notes is pretty low, so they’re narrowly a defensive play for
investors.”  Even as floating-rate note issuance is dominated by banks,
borrowers from consumer-products company Procter & Gamble Co. to
Caterpillar Inc. have sold the securities in the past month.  Interest Rates Rise  IBM’s notes rank as senior unsecured obligations, the data
show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “The only reason that floating-rate notes would pay off
more than a fixed-rate one is if short-term interest rates do
rise quickly,” said LeBas, who doesn’t anticipate that
increase. “For investors that are concerned about a rise in
rates, purchasing floaters is one way to reduce that.”  Yields on the benchmark  10-year Treasury  have climbed for
the past two weeks to 3.32 percent as of Dec. 10, while those on
 30-year Treasuries  increased to 4.43 percent as of that date.  IBM plans to spend about $20 billion on acquisitions by
2015 as it aims to almost double operating earnings per share.
Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano  is investing in analytics
software and services that help predict trends, as well as cloud
computing, which helps customers save money by letting them
store and access data via the Internet rather than from their
own servers.  The company, which has announced 15 acquisitions this year,
ended the third quarter with more than $11 billion in cash and
short-term investments.  Barclays Capital and UBS AG managed the offering, according
to a regulatory filing from IBM today. Proceeds will be used for
general corporate purposes, the company said in the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  