-- Icahn Pulls Hostile Bid for Lions Gate Studio After Losing Court Ruling
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-12-13T19:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/icahn-pulls-hostile-bid-for-lions-gate-studio-after-losing-court-ruling.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn 
pulled his hostile bid for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.  after
a court ruling last week allowed a director to keep his
increased voting power.  A New York judge ruled on Dec. 9 that director Mark
Rachesky could vote shares he acquired in a deal that diluted
Icahn’s stake. Icahn, the largest shareholder with a 33 percent
stake, said in a statement today that he was dropping his bid.
He still urged investors to vote for his five board nominees at
the Lions Gate’s annual meeting tomorrow.  Icahn’s $7.50-a-share tender offer for the film studio was
conditioned upon his request that a court block Rachesky from
voting the shares he acquired in July that gave him a stake of
almost 29 percent, according to the statement. Icahn, 74, had
said management conspired with large shareholders to thwart his
bid for Vancouver-based Lions Gate.  “We will continue to monitor the situation at Lions Gate
and will aggressively take all actions necessary to protect our
investment,” Icahn said in the statement. “We recognize that
it is now virtually impossible for us to prevail in the proxy
contest due to the dilutive transaction in question.”  All Lions Gate shares that were previously tendered and not
withdrawn will be returned, Icahn said.  The judge said an important reason in his determination was
that Lions Gate’s lawyers told him another investor meeting
would be held in September 2011.  Lions Gate, run from Santa Monica, California,  fell 
30 cents, or 4 percent, to $7.14 at 2:11 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares gained 28 percent this
year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  