-- Microsoft Aims to Add More Users Than Salesforce.com
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2010-12-13T22:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/microsoft-aims-to-outpace-salesforce-com-in-customer-software.html
Microsoft Corp.  aims to attract more
users to its customer-relationship management software in 2011
than  Salesforce.com Inc.  and outpace its competitor in that
market for the first time.  “We’re gunning for that,” Michael Park, vice president of
Microsoft Business Solutions, said today in an interview. The
Redmond, Washington-based  software giant  is introducing a new
version of the relationship-management software next month,
helping to spur growth. Last year, Salesforce gained about
50,000 more new users than Microsoft, Park estimated.  Microsoft  is trying to prize customers from Salesforce and
 Oracle Corp.  with updated software and a “Don’t Get Forced”
advertising campaign. Its earlier  products  weren’t capable
enough to warrant a big marketing push and were available only
in the U.S. and Canada, Park said. The new version will be
offered in 40 countries.  “We needed to be more aggressive now that we have a
product we can stand behind,” he said.  Microsoft expects to pick off Oracle customers who are
unhappy with the software the company acquired from  Siebel
Systems Inc.  or the Fusion products designed to replace them,
Park said.  Carol Sato , a spokeswoman for Redwood City, California-
based Oracle, and  Jane Hynes , a spokeswoman for San Francisco-
based Salesforce, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call
and e-mail request for comment.  Decade-Old Push  Microsoft rose 10 cents to $27.25 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The  shares  have declined 11
percent this year. Salesforce fell $4.73, or 3.2 percent, to
$143.88 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The stock has gained 95 percent this year.  The campaign is part of a push Microsoft started a decade
ago to get more sales from customer, accounting and finance
programs. The company initially predicted it would earn $10
billion in revenue annually from these products by this year.
It’s generating “well north of a billion dollars in revenue” a
year, short of that mark, Park said.  The company doesn’t break out revenue for that business in
quarterly reports and Park declined to specify.  The biggest customers for finance and accounting software
already have programs installed and don’t replace them often, he
said. Instead, Microsoft is targeting smaller businesses or
divisions of the larger firms that want less expensive options
than Oracle or Germany-based SAP AG.  While Dell Inc. uses Oracle for its main enterprise-
resource planning software, the company’s manufacturing and
assembly operations are installing Microsoft’s Dynamics ERP,
Park said. Dell expects to save $100 million as a result, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  