-- Lilly Suspends Late-Stage Trial for Melanoma Drug in Which 12 People Died
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-12-13T23:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/lilly-suspends-late-stage-trial-for-melanoma-drug-on-safety-considerations.html
Eli Lilly & Co.  suspended a late-
stage clinical trial of a medicine in skin-cancer patients after
12 patients in the study died.  The deaths, among the 300 patients in the study, “may be
treatment-related,” said  Amy Sousa , a Lilly spokeswoman, in a
telephone interview today. Lilly was testing the drug,
tasisulam, as a medication for patients whose skin cancer had
spread and who didn’t benefit from earlier treatment, the
Indianapolis-based company said today in a statement.  Lilly  has struggled to get new products approved before
patents expire on older medicines, led by the antipsychotic
treatment Zyprexa. Two setbacks in October for diabetes products
under development spurred analysts to suggest Lilly look for
acquisitions to bolster revenue.  “We are thoroughly reviewing the clinical trial data to
understand what modifications to the study protocol or dosing
would be needed to improve patient safety on this trial,”
 Richard Gaynor , Lilly’s vice president of oncology product
development and medical affairs, said in the statement.  No new or existing patients will be given the drug while
the company evaluates safety data for the trial, which is spread
across 18 countries. Studies will continue in breast, ovarian,
and renal cancers and against soft-tissue sarcoma, the company
said. Tasisulam works by killing cancer cells and also by
preventing them from replicating, the company has said.  About 68,130 new cases of melanoma, or skin cancer, were
diagnosed this year in the U.S., and about 8,700 people died
from the disease, according to the  National Cancer Institute ,
based in Bethesda, Maryland.  Lilly declined less than 1 percent in extended trading
after dropping 1 cent to $34.97 at the 4 p.m. close of regular
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 