-- Time Inc. Magazine Unit Names Randall Rothenberg as First Digital Chief
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-12-13T17:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/time-inc-magazine-unit-names-rothenberg-as-first-digital-chief.html
Time Inc., the magazine publisher
owned by  Time Warner Inc. , named advertising industry veteran
 Randall Rothenberg  as its first chief digital officer.  Rothenberg, who has been president and chief executive of
the  Interactive Advertising Bureau  for three years, will oversee
Time Inc.’s digital strategy, from potential acquisitions to new
revenue opportunities, the New York-based company said today in
an e-mailed statement. He starts in January.  The new role was created by Time Inc., publisher of People
and Sports Illustrated, four months after  Jack Griffin  was named
CEO. Magazine publishers are searching for new ways to make
money on the Internet and on new mobile devices such as  Apple
Inc. ’s iPad and tablets using  Google Inc. ’s Android operating
system. Billionaires including Virgin Group Ltd.’s  Richard Branson  and News Corp.’s  Rupert Murdoch  are introducing
publications exclusively for tablets.  “Randall is the ideal candidate to lead Time Inc.’s
digital growth strategy and further establish our brands as
innovators in the tablet and other emerging digital arenas,”
Griffin said in the statement.  Rothenberg will be Time Inc.’s representative on the board
of Next Issue Media, a joint venture of publishers, and the
senior executive responsible for relationships with industry
associations and other major companies. He’s responsible for
developing a center for digital innovation within the company
that will provide seed funding for new digital projects.  Previously, Rothenberg was chief marketing officer for Booz
Allen Hamilton and spent six years as an editor and reporter at
the New York Times.  The Time Inc. unit has shown profit growth this year
through costs cuts and higher advertising sales, after several
years of investors calling for its divestment.  Time Warner rose 4 cents to $31.83 at 11:36 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares had gained 9.1
percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  