-- India, China May Sign Banking Accord During Wen Jiabao’s Visit
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-12-13T15:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/india-china-may-sign-banking-accord-during-wen-visit-easing-icbc-s-entry.html
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s visit
to India may lead to closer ties in financial services such as
 banking , and access to the Indian market for Chinese banks, an
Indian foreign ministry official said today.  “This visit by Wen will see India and China cooperating
closer in the financial sector, especially in the area of
banking,”  Gautam Bambawale , a joint secretary in India’s
foreign ministry, told reporters in New Delhi. India “looks
forward” to Chinese banks starting operations in the country,
he said.  An agreement on banking may pave the way for companies like
the  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s
largest lender by market value, to enter India, where credit
growth averaged 24 percent annually in the last five years.  “There are already more than 10 Indian banks operating in
China, but so far no Chinese banks in India,” Zhang Yan,
China’s ambassador to India, said today at a conference in New
Delhi. “I hope very soon, the Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China will open its branch in India.”  There are 34 foreign banks in India, accounting for about 7
percent of total banking assets,  Reserve Bank of India  Governor
 Duvvuri Subbarao   said  in Mumbai on Dec. 3.  Wen’s visit to India this week will contribute to a push
for greater financial cooperation to narrow a Chinese surplus in
trade between the economies, Zhang said.  Bilateral trade is likely to rise to $60 billion in 2010,
with China running a surplus of $18 billion in the first 11
months of the year, according to Chinese customs figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  