-- Indonesia Approves Phased-In Limits on Subsidized Fuel Sales
-- B y   B a m b a n g   D j a n u a r t o
-- 2010-12-13T17:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/indonesia-approves-limit-on-subsidized-fuel-sales-update1-.html
Indonesian lawmakers approved a
government proposal to gradually limit the sale of subsidized
fuel starting in 2011, Teuku Riefky Harsya, chairman of the
parliament’s energy commission, said late yesterday.  A specific timeframe for implementation hasn’t been
decided, Harsya said after the announcement. Owners of private
cars won’t be allowed to buy subsidized gasoline and diesel in
Jakarta starting next month, and the prohibition will be in
effect throughout Indonesia in 2013, Coordinating Minister for
the Economy  Hatta Rajasa  said before the decision was announced.  The curb on subsidized fuel consumption may help Southeast
Asia’s biggest economy cut subsidy spending in the state budget
by 8.9 percent to 184.8 trillion rupiah ($20.5 billion) next
year, President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  said in August.  The program will help the government to cut subsidized fuel
quotas in the 2011 budget by 40 percent to 22.16 million
kiloliters,  Karen Agustiawan , president director of state-owned
oil company  PT Pertamina , said Dec. 2.  The government is preparing two options to limit the use of
subsidized fuel, Ibrahim Hasyim, a committee member of petroleum
regulator  BPHilir  Migas, said the same day.  The options are only motorcycle, public transportation and
fishermen will be allowed to use subsidized fuel, or vehicles
manufactured before 2005, Hasyim said.  The option of limiting subsidies to motorcycles, public
transport and fishermen “is the most ready to be applied,”
Agustiawan told lawmakers at a parliament hearing Dec. 2. It
will reduce the use of subsidized RON 88 gasoline by 11 million
kiloliters and diesel by 3.6 million kiloliters, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bambang Djanuarto  in Jakarta at 
 bdjanuarto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  