-- Infineon CEO Bauer Leads Company to Profit as Last Man Standing
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2010-12-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/infineon-chief-bauer-leads-german-chipmaker-to-profit-as-last-man-standing.html
Infineon Technologies AG ’s Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Bauer  says a focus on tailor-made chips
for cars and machinery is helping Europe’s second-largest
semiconductor maker overcome the industry’s sharp price and
demand swings.  “Our risk profile is much lower” after getting rid of
high-volume, commoditized chips used in personal computers and
mobile phones, Bauer said in an interview last week at the
company’s headquarters in Neubiberg, south of Munich. “The
company has some difficult times behind it. Now we are cyclical,
but not volatile.”  In 2004, Bauer  assumed  board responsibility for Infineon’s
automotive, industrial and multimarket units -- six years later,
those are the only businesses left and Bauer is CEO. And
Infineon, the worst-performing company in Germany’s benchmark
DAX Index before he took over, can show off rising profits, the
first dividend in more than a decade and an 85 percent share
price gain this year. STMicroelectronics NV, Europe’s largest
chipmaker, has risen 20 percent in 2010.  “Bauer picked the right markets where price is not
everything and long-term customer relationships are important
because the chips are application-specific,” said  Boris Boehm ,
who helps manage 1 billion euros ($1.34 billion) at Aramea Asset
Management in Hamburg, including Infineon shares. “The company
is now in a surprisingly good state, considering that it posted
massive  losses  for such a long period of time.”  Accumulated Losses  Infineon accumulated losses of 4.7 billion euros after it
was sold by  Siemens AG , Europe’s largest engineering company, in
an initial public offering in March 2000. Infineon’s  shares  were
sold for 35 euros each, rose as high as 83.74 euros in June 2000
and fell to an all-time low of 35 cents in March 2009. The stock
dropped 0.3 percent to 7.186 euros in Frankfurt yesterday.  Bauer, 50, became CEO in June 2008 and completed a revamp
that started in 2006 with the carve-out of the unprofitable
memory-chip unit  Qimonda  and ended with the agreement in August
to sell the mobile-chip division to  Intel Corp.  Qimonda filed
for insolvency in 2009.  Other chipmakers also retreated from the memory market to
avoid dealing with uneven sales of personal computer
semiconductors that hurt earnings when supply outweighed demand.
Intel exited the memory-chip industry more than 20 years ago and
Texas Instruments Inc. sold its business in 1998.  After posting a net income of 390 million euros in the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, Bauer has five consecutive
quarters of profits behind him -- the longest streak since the
IPO. His predecessor  Wolfgang Ziebart  presided over 13 quarters
of losses and three of profit, according to Bloomberg data.  Conservative Forecast?  Bauer forecast a 10 percent improvement in sales as well as
stronger margins in fiscal 2011 and said last month that
Infineon plans a dividend of 10 cents for the past fiscal year,
the first payout in a decade. The sales target for the current
fiscal year may be “conservative” as the company is awash with
orders, the CEO said.  Bauer, whose first job was as a judo trainer, completed his
engineering degree at Technical University in Munich in 1986 and
started at Siemens as development engineer of microcontrollers,
eventually becoming vice president of that unit.  Infineon’s remaining businesses have “been hidden behind
the turnaround story of wireless, and before that it was about
memory, memory, memory,” Bauer said. As investors learn more
about the complex industrial business, “they become
increasingly happy with what they see there.”  Windmills, ID Cards  The industrial and multimarket unit makes chips for smart
power use in electronics and for windmills and the automotive
unit supplies companies like  Audi AG  and China’s Chery Inc. with
chips that replace expensive mechanical parts. The chip card and
security unit recently won a deal to supply security controllers
for some 6.5 million new electronic identification cards that
the German government issues each year.  Infineon’s success is partly due to Bauer and also a result
of demand for semiconductors recovering after the economic
slowdown last year, said  Eerik Budarz , an analyst at Silvia
Quandt & Cie. AG in Frankfurt.  “Now they are doing extremely well and I’d love to credit
Bauer for a lot of that but at the same time they’ve benefited
from the cycle,” he said. “Hopefully, it should be a more
stable business going forward, with higher margins and possibly
even higher peer multiples.” Infineon’s shares trade at 16.3
times estimated earnings compared with 13.8 times at ST.  The new, stable business model “is probably also luring
some investors who are also more conservative and not just the
casino type,” Budarz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ragnhild Kjetland  in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  