-- Intercell Plummets 45%; Travelers' Diarrhea Vaccine Patch Fails in Trials
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2010-12-13T16:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/intercell-predicts-bigger-loss-after-diarrhea-vaccine-patch-fails-in-trial.html
Intercell AG  plunged 41 percent in
Vienna trading after a vaccine patch to prevent diarrhea in
travelers failed in two patient studies, prompting the company
to forecast a wider loss.  The 2010 loss will be “substantially higher” than the 40
million euros ($52.8 million) Intercell forecast last month, the
Vienna-based company said in a statement late yesterday.
Intercell said it expects to write down as much as 167 million
euros of intangible assets for the project and doesn’t expect to
receive milestone payments from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc , the patch’s
co-developer. The total loss for 2010 may reach around 200
million euros, Chief Executive Officer  Gerd Zettlmeissl  said in
an interview with Boerse-Express newsletter.  The decision ends development of Intercell’s  most advanced 
project, which the company had said might generate as much 500
million euros in annual sales. Intercell will also trim its
budget for research and development.  “Intercell is cutting their R&D spend by 40 percent, which
gives you some idea of the significance of the project,”  Martin Wales , an analyst at UBS AG, said in a telephone interview
today.  Intercell  sank  6.86 euros to 10 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close of trading in the Austrian capital, cutting the company’s
market value to 485.9 million euros. The drop was the biggest
since the company’s February 2005 initial public offering.  “We are extremely disappointed,” Zettlmeissl said in the
statement. “We have taken all necessary managerial measures to
fully realign the company’s operations.” The company postponed
a briefing for investors planned for Dec. 15 in London.  Glaxo Stake  Intercell will make organizational changes that will lead
to further cost savings starting in 2012, it said, without
specifying the measures.  The company may choose to raise funds if revenue generated
by its Ixiaro shot to protect against Japanese encephalitis
fails to reach a projected 45 million euros next year,  Brigitte de Lima , an analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a
note to clients today.  “Overall we don’t see an issue with respect to our
liquidity for the next one to two years,” Zettlmeissl said in
the interview with Boerse-Express.  Intercell said in October that its vaccine candidate
against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a bacterium that causes some
hospital-acquired infections, significantly cut mortality in a
400-patient clinical trial.  Travelers’ Diarrhea  Novartis AG , which owns about 15 percent of Intercell, has
an option to buy the rights to the vaccine, a step that could
trigger as much as 120 million euros in payments and additional
royalties to Intercell,  Peter Welford , an analyst at Jefferies
International in London, said in a note to clients at the time.  The travelers’ vaccine was designed to protect against
 enterotoxigenic E.coli , or ETEC, which can cause diarrhea
through contaminated food or water. The studies tested the patch
among 2,759 travelers from Europe to Mexico, Guatemala and
India.  ETEC infections were reduced in about 35 percent of the
people wearing the vaccine patch, compared with those wearing a
placebo, yet that reduction may have been the result of chance,
Intercell said. The patch had no effect on the frequency of
diarrhea due to any cause.  The studies support ongoing investigation of the patch
technology, which Intercell and London-based Glaxo are also
using to develop an influenza vaccine, Intercell said.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, agreed to pay 33.6
million euros last year to form an alliance with Intercell to
develop and market the vaccine patches.  It also bought a 1.9 percent stake for 28 million euros,
with an option to increase its holding to as much as 5 percent
by paying another 56 million euros if clinical trials were
successful.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net 
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 