-- Lions Give Away Remaining Tickets to Giants-Vikings Game at Ford Field
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-12-13T18:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/lions-give-away-remaining-tickets-to-giants-vikings-game-at-ford-field.html
The Detroit Lions have given away
the last free tickets to tonight’s game between the New York
Giants and Minnesota Vikings, rescheduled to Detroit’s Ford
Field when the roof of the Metrodome collapsed yesterday due to
snow.  The National Football League team started giving them away
at 9 a.m. local time and it ran out a few hours later, team
spokesman  Matt Barnhart  said in a telephone interview. Barnhart
was unsure how many tickets were distributed.  The game, originally scheduled for yesterday afternoon, was
moved to 64,500-seat Ford Field following the biggest snowstorm
in Minneapolis-St. Paul since 1991. The 17 inches (43
centimeters) of snow caused the roof of the Metrodome to
collapse, forcing the matchup between the 8-4 Giants and 5-7
Vikings to another stadium. Tonight’s game will be televised on
News Corp.’s Fox in local markets and will begin at 7:20 p.m.
New York time.  Ticket holders for the original game in Minneapolis will
get preferred seating in sections near the 50-yard line,
Barnhart said. The Lions will also admit ticketholders from the
team’s 7-3 victory over the Green Bay Packers yesterday at Ford
Field.  Detroit’s Ford Field is the closest indoor NFL stadium to
Minneapolis, about 689 miles (1,108 kilometers) from the
Metrodome. Giants President  John Mara  said the facility was the
“most logical” because it was reasonably close and Fox already
had television equipment at the field after broadcasting
yesterday’s game between the Lions and Packers. The University
of Minnesota’s 50,805-seat open-air stadium was ruled out
because it had been shut down for the winter.  Repairs to the inflatable Metrodome roof, which is composed
of 10 acres of Teflon-coated Fiberglas, will take “several
days,” Bill Lester, executive director of the Metropolitan
Sports Facilities Commission, which owns the Metrodome, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. There were no injuries in
the collapse, Lester said.  The Metrodome roof has deflated once before, after more
than 10 inches of snow fell in October 1981, 48 days after the
stadium opened. The only previous event in the Metrodome to be
postponed because of snow was a Major League Baseball game
between the Minnesota Twins and California Angels in April 1983.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 