-- Iran Atomic Chief to Take Over Foreign Ministry as Mottaki Is Forced Out
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-12-13T17:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/iran-foreign-minister-quits-at-president-s-request-salehi-named-to-post.html
Iranian Foreign Minister  Manouchehr Mottaki  was forced out of the Cabinet by President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who named the country’s atomic energy chief to
replace him.  The appointment of  Ali Akbar Salehi  on an interim basis was
announced today by Ahmadinejad in a decree issued while Mottaki
was on an official visit to Senegal, state-run Fars news said
without giving a reason for Mottaki’s firing. He became foreign
minister in 2005 after Ahmadinejad took office.  Mottaki’s departure from the top diplomatic post “doesn’t
bode well” for international talks over Iran’s nuclear program,
 Gala Riani , Middle East analyst for London-based business
intelligence and forecasting company IHS Global Insight, said in
phone interview. “Mottaki was somewhat of a moderate and viewed
as someone to whom the international community could talk.”  After a year of stalemate, Iran agreed in negotiations on
Dec. 7 to more talks on its atomic program, while saying it
would “absolutely not” suspend uranium enrichment. The United
Nations in June stepped up sanctions against Iran over its
nuclear ambitions. The next negotiations are planned for January
in Istanbul between Iran and the so-called P5+1 group --
comprising China, France, Germany, Russia, the U.K. and U.S.  Mottaki’s ouster will make it easier for Iran “to speak
with a united voice,” after divisions arose between those in
the leadership who favor negotiations over the nuclear dispute
and those who don’t, Riani said.  Conflicts With Ministry  Ahmadinejad had conflicts with the Foreign Ministry in
August, when he appointed four special envoys Middle Eastern and
Asian affairs, according to reports in state-run media at the
time. Mottaki complained days later that the move was weakening
the country’s diplomatic structure. Ahmadinejad was forced to
heed Supreme Leader  Ali Khamenei ’s demand that he avoid
“parallel moves” in foreign policy. The four posts were then
downgraded to adviser positions.  The dispute over the positions manifested personal
differences between the president and Mottaki, according to
Iranian Diplomacy, a  website  run by former Iranian diplomats,
including Sadegh Kharrazi.  While Mottaki wasn’t officially seen as opposing the
president, he “stood out in Ahmadinejad’s cabinet and didn’t
quite fit with others who had a more military background,”
Riani said.  Khamenei, the highest authority in the Islamic state, has
the final say on the nation’s affairs and determines its policy
on nuclear issues.  Attended MIT  Salehi was appointed in 2009 to head  Iran’s Atomic Energy
Organization . He had previously served as an envoy to the UN’s
 International Atomic Energy Agency  in Vienna. Salehi has a
Bachelor of Science degree from the American University of
Beirut and attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in
Cambridge.  Mohammad Qannadi, an Atomic Energy Organization official,
will replace Salehi as the agency’s chief, Fars said.  Iran denies allegations that it may be using an atomic
power program to disguise weapons development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net . 