-- Irish Debt Default Would Be Far From Armageddon: Kevin Hassett
-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 2010-12-13T02:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/ireland-default-would-be-far-from-armageddon-commentary-by-kevin-hassett.html
The world’s economic policy makers
have talked up a zero-tolerance attitude toward sovereign-debt
defaults. For every troubled national borrower, there seem to be
a dozen central bankers ready to hand out cash, always to avoid
Armageddon.  Earth would be a better place if these bankers were forced
to take a remedial course in Christian theology. Then they would
stop obsessing over Armageddon, at least until a Messiah
appears.  Debtors have failed to make good on their obligations
throughout history, and we’re still here. Defaults by financial
institutions are, of course, too numerous to count, but
governments crash as well. We have a long record to see just how
they play out.  According to “This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of
Financial Folly,” the 2009  book  by  Carmen M. Reinhart  and
 Kenneth Rogoff , there were 238 external debt defaults or
reschedulings from 1800 to 2008. Spain tops the list with 13
occurrences in its history, though none since the 19th century.  Today we are supposed to believe that if one small country
such as Ireland goes down, the rest of us will too. Yes, the
world is more interconnected now than 200 years ago. That
doesn’t make every cough a sure sign of pneumonia.  At the risk of understatement, throwing money at a country
teetering at the brink of default isn’t how things used to be
done.  Gunboat Economics  In 1902, European nations responded to a Venezuelan
government debt default with military force. German, Italian and
British gunboats blockaded ports, seized customs houses and
bombarded a Venezuelan fort. Venezuela caved, agreeing to
restructure and pay its debts.  These days, when European leaders see Greece and Ireland on
the brink of default, they don’t send gunboats -- they send
money. The word “restructure” is taboo. Somewhere along the
line it became unacceptable to take 80 cents on the dollar from
a debtor nation, but acceptable to give that same nation 20
cents to keep its payments on schedule.  The problem is, once you do that, everyone wants 20 cents.  The theory of bailouts is intricately related to the fear
of Armageddon. If investors see Greece go down, the story goes,
they might panic and stop lending to other nations, even ones
that should be considered healthy. In this view, default spreads
like influenza in 1918.  The theory doesn’t stop with national governments. If
California defaults on its debts, then the credit crisis might
sweep up all the other states. If Bear Stearns Cos. fails, then
so will everyone else.  Averting Disaster  We seem to have become a world in which we assume a panic
is around every corner. When markets are irrational, it’s
impossible to say what might set them off, and fear of disaster
becomes a powerful excuse for policy makers to do whatever they
choose.  Economist  Vincent Reinhart  reviews the legacy of the 2008
Bear Stearns bailout in an article to be published in the
Journal of Economic Perspectives. As he points out, the U.S.
government, in its wisdom, wiped out equity holders but saved
bondholders, and investors began to expect this policy.  Reinhart writes, “This expectation made it profitable to
identify the next financial firm to be resolved and then to sell
its stock short and use the proceeds to purchase its unsecured
debt. If the candidate firm was identified correctly, the debt
would appreciate in value and its stock collapse.”  Delayed Reckoning  The Bear Stearns bailout, then, only delayed the inevitable
realization of losses from the collapse of the real estate
market. It abetted the fiction that government can save us. Only
when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. was allowed to go down did
markets realize that the losses were just too big. The process
would have been more orderly if the restructuring began at once.  It’s just as bad for countries. Central bank interventions
become an excuse to avoid tough choices.  While no one would recommend that we return to the gunboat
days, the old-fashioned hard-nosed approach had a big effect on
contagion.  Economists Kris Michener and Marc Weidenmier  studied  what
they call supersanctions -- the use of military or political
pressure to force repayment of sovereign debts, a commonly used
enforcement mechanism from 1870 to 1913.  They found that following supersanctions, “on average, ex
ante default probabilities on new debt issues fell by more than
60 percent, yield spreads declined approximately 800 basis
points, and defaulting countries experienced almost a 100
percent reduction of time spent in default.” In other words, a
Tony Soprano approach toward a defaulting nation can inspire
some major improvements.  The world economy has survived sovereign debt defaults in
the past, not by bailing out the miscreants, but by paying close
attention to their own balance sheets. If you don’t want a Greek
default to lead to a crisis in your country, balance your own
budget ahead of time.  And stop whining about Armageddon.  ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator  John McCain  in the 2008
presidential election. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Kevin Hassett  at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  