-- Israel Buttons on Egypt Clothes Double Garment Exports to U.S.
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-12-13T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/israeli-buttons-on-egyptian-garments-mean-double-clothing-exports-to-u-s-.html
Alaa Arafa , who runs Egypt’s biggest
clothing exporter, says any of his countrymen concerned about
trading with Israel should see how doing so has boosted exports
to the U.S.  “Business is business,” the chief executive officer of Al
Arafa Investments and Consulting said in an interview in Cairo.
“This is creating jobs for women and for young people.”  Sales of Egyptian garments to the American market have
doubled to $800 million in the past five years, thanks to a 2005
U.S.-brokered trade accord with Israel, and may increase 25
percent next year alone, Arafa said.  Egypt is now in talks with the U.S. to widen the trade
agreement, setting up more so-called  Qualifying Industrial Zones 
in the Arab world’s most populous country and third-largest
economy after Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. The
accord allows companies to export goods to the U.S. duty-free if
they have an Israeli component, such as buttons and zippers.  The improvement in trade ties comes after decades of uneasy
relations between the two countries, which fought each other in
four regional wars between 1948 and 1973. Egypt in 1979 became
the first Arab state to make peace with Israel, a decision that
remains controversial. A government poll in 2006 found that 92
percent of Egyptians consider Israel an enemy.  The  Muslim Brotherhood , an Islamist opposition group, is
demanding that the government break off ties with the Jewish
state. Opposition newspapers in September said gas exports to
Israel since 2005 left power stations undersupplied and led to
nationwide electricity cuts. The Oil Ministry denied the claims.  “Gas Exports to the Zionist Entity! When Will This Shame
End?” read a headline on the Brotherhood’s website.  Expansion Plans  The Egyptian government hasn’t been deterred from doing
business with its neighbor. The government plans to expand the
zone agreement to include all the provinces in  Upper Egypt , a
poor region south of Cairo that is a stronghold of the
Brotherhood.  Prime Minister  Ahmed Nazif  said in October that extending
the trade zones to the south will help labor-intensive
industries. “Nobody can deny the positive impact,” he told
reporters in Cairo.  More than 700 Egyptian companies have based themselves in
the zones so far. Four areas in northern Egypt were initially
designated for the zones, known by their acronym of QIZ, and the
deal was extended last year to the provinces of Minya and Beni
Suef in the south.  “The QIZ agreement has significantly enlarged Israel’s
bilateral exports to Egypt,” said Amira Oren, director of the
Egypt department at the Israeli  Ministry of Foreign Affairs .
Israeli exports to the Arab country rose 50 percent to $90
million in the year after the agreement was signed, she said.  ‘Closer Relationship’  The accord “has definitely brought a closer relationship
and more understanding among the Israelis and Egyptians
involved,” Oren said.  In return for signing the peace treaty, Egypt received more
than $28 billion in direct economic assistance from the U.S.
through 2006, according to the  U.S. Agency for International
Development . Egypt is also expected to export some $4 billion of
gas to Israel over the next 15 years, Oren said.  Having diplomatic ties with Israel has helped Egypt play a
leading role in the region even as Iran and Saudi Arabia
increase their influence. Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , 82,
has played host in the past decade to several rounds of Israeli-
Palestinian peace talks, the last of which took place in
September in the Red Sea resort of Sharm El-Sheikh.  ‘Warm’ Ties  Leaders of both countries have found common opponents in
militant groups such as Hamas, the Islamist group that controls
the Gaza Strip, said Hala Moustafa, a journalist and member of
the ruling party’s policy committee. Hamas is considered a
terrorist group by Israel, the U.S. and the European Union.  While Moustafa described ties as “very warm,” Israel
remains a target for some Egyptians.  In 2008, Culture Minister  Faruq Hosni  said in parliament
that he would burn any Israeli book found in Egypt, a remark for
which he later apologized. Writers such as Moustafa and
playwright Ali Salem, who promote normalization with Israel,
find their patriotism questioned in the media.  “There is a dichotomy between the security cooperation”
taking place “and other aspects of the relationship,” such as
cultural and social cooperation, that are less advanced, Oren
said.  That tension hasn’t stopped Egyptian companies from using
the zones. El Nasr Clothes & Textiles, a knitwear company that
produces clothes for clients such as London-based  Marks &
Spencer Group Plc , plans to use the new industrial zones to
export to the U.S. market, in the hope this will help it swing
back to profitability after enduring a loss last year.  Making Use  “Of course we will make use of the QIZ,”  Amr El Sharnoubi , chairman and managing director of the company, based
in the Mediterranean city of Alexandria, said in an interview.  Arafa, who declined to give sales figures for his company,
says it isn’t just textiles and clothing companies that can
benefit from the zones. He suggests exporters focus on goods
that incur high tariffs when exported to the U.S., such as dried
onion. That product is usually subject to a 36-percent duty
absent an Israeli component, such as packaging, he said.  “If you make it here and ship it to the United States you
will make a fortune,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 