-- Israeli Premier Netanyahu Welcomes U.S. Shift on Middle East Peace Talks
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-12-13T14:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/israeli-premier-netanyahu-welcomes-u-s-shift-on-middle-east-peace-talks.html
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu 
praised the U.S. for not pushing Israel to impose another freeze
on West Bank settlement construction ahead of a meeting today in
Jerusalem with U.S. envoy to the Middle East  George Mitchell .  “After a year and a half spent in unproductive discussion
on additional building in settlements, the U.S. understood it is
more worthwhile to address the issues at the heart of the
conflict,” Netanyahu said in Tel Aviv today. “I welcome the
U.S. coming to this decision even though we were willing to
examine a continuation of the freeze.”  The U.S. said last week it was abandoning its efforts to
get Israel to renew a freeze on West Bank settlement
construction that Palestinians had made a requirement for
continuing direct talks. The Obama administration said it will
focus on getting the sides to discuss such issues as the borders
of a future Palestinian state.  Mitchell, who will also meet Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas , will primarily focus in the coming
weeks on getting Israel to define its position on core issues
such as the borders of the future Palestinian state, Haaretz
newspaper reported, without saying where it got the information.  Netanyahu and Abbas agreed in September to try to reach an
agreement on the framework for a comprehensive peace accord
within a year. All the issues at the core of the conflict would
be on the table, including the borders of a future Palestinian
state, security arrangements for Israel and the right of
Palestinian refugees to return.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ,
 Gwen Ackerman  at   gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 