-- Ivory Coast’s Ouattara to Attempt Takeover of Offices
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-12-14T11:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/ivory-coast-s-ouattara-to-attempt-takeover-of-state-offices-this-week.html
(Corrects time of curfew in final paragraph on story
published Dec. 13.)  Ivory Coast’s  rival cabinet, backed
by the United Nations and the African Union, will attempt to
take control of government offices on Dec. 17, said  Guillaume Soro , the prime minister chosen by  Alassane Ouattara .  Politicians appointed to Ouattara’s cabinet will try to
hold a “council of ministers” in the Plateau neighborhood of
Abidjan, the commercial capital, where the state offices are
located, Soro said in an e-mailed statement today.  The move will be the first attempt for Ouattara’s
government to meet outside the Golf Hotel, where they have been
based for more than a week. Ouattara was named winner of the
Nov. 28 election, garnering 54.1 percent of the vote, according
to the country’s electoral commission. The proclamation was
annulled by the Constitutional Council on Dec. 3, which named
incumbent  Laurent Gbagbo  the victor after canceling ballots from
the country’s north amid claims of irregularities.  Earlier today, security forces loyal to Gbagbo blocked the
main road leading to the hotel, sparking a clash with Forces
Nouvelles fighters who support Ouattara and had been guarding
the site along with United Nations personnel. Shots were fired,
though it wasn’t clear where they came from, said  Amadou Coulibaly , a spokesman for Ouattara’s party. There were no
reports of injuries.  The European Union today repeated its support for Ouattara
and pledged to place bans on visas and to freeze the assets of
leaders “who have refused to place themselves under the
authority of the democratically elected president,” according
to an e-mailed statement.  Both Gbagbo and Ouattara have taken oaths of office and
appointed government ministers in the world’s top cocoa grower.  A night time curfew, in place since the election, was
extended to Dec. 21, state-controlled broadcaster Radiodiffusion
Television Ivoirienne reported today. The hours are from 12 a.m.
to 5 a.m., it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Olivier Monnier  and  Pauline Bax  in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 