-- Japan Said to Consider Extension of Capital Gains Tax Break by One Year
-- B y   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2010-12-13T08:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/japan-said-to-consider-extension-of-capital-gains-tax-break-by-one-year.html
Japan may extend a capital-gains tax
break by a year after the Financial Services Agency opposed
ending it in 2011 as scheduled, according to two government
officials familiar with the matter.  Vice Finance Minister  Fumihiko Igarashi , who moderates the
tax panel that will make policy recommendations to Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan , said last month he wanted to end the 10
percentage point break for levies on dividends and capital gains.
Japan’s banking regulator has rejected the proposal, citing the
potential effect on stocks, said the officials, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because the talks were private.  The discussions reflect policy makers’ dual objectives of
reining in the world’s largest public debt burden while
sustaining confidence in a recovery from Japan’s deepest postwar
recession. Igarashi has favored bringing the tax back to 20
percent from 10 percent, a step that might make it easier to
avoid having to sell more deficit-financing bonds next year.  “This is good news for investors but it’s important to
keep in mind is that it’s not clear the tax break has been
encouraging people to buy stocks,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief
economist at Norinchukin Research Institute in Tokyo. “Japan’s
fiscal situation is so severe that they are going to need to end
the tax break eventually.”  ‘Severe State’  Toshiharu Mashita, an FSA spokesman, confirmed that his
agency wants an extension of the reduced tax rate. “We are
asking to extend the equities tax break because of concerns with
the outlook for economy, which remains in a severe state, as
well as finance,” he said.  Igarashi told reporters today that the panel hasn’t made a
decision about the tax break, adding that the Finance Ministry
has presented alternatives to the FSA, without elaborating.  The benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  has advanced 9
percent so far in the fourth quarter, helped by a halt to the
yen’s appreciation against the dollar and signs of stabilizing
growth in the U.S. and China. The index added gains after the
news on the tax-policy discussions, and was up 0.8 percent at
10,293.89 as of 3:28 p.m. in Tokyo.  Japan’s government has previously extended the tax break,
in the wake of the global financial crisis, a move that pushed
its expiration to 2011 from 2008. Implemented in 2003, the
measure was originally scheduled to last five years. The
government tax panel plans to compile tax guidelines for the
year starting in April 2011 this month.  Small Investors  The Finance Ministry had proposed bolstering tax benefits
for small investors to help offset the effect of repealing the
tax break.  Kan’s government is struggling to halt growth in a
government debt level estimated by the International Monetary
Fund at 226 percent of gross domestic product in 2010. His party
lost ground in an upper house of parliament election in July
after Kan favored discussing an increase in sales taxes.  Japan’s new bond issuance of 44.3 trillion ($527 billion)
for the fiscal year through March 2010 is expected by the
finance ministry to exceed tax revenue.  The tax panel is also debating a reduction in income-tax
deductions and an inheritance tax break, and scaling back the
scope of a pledge to increase childcare handouts. A further area
for potential changes is corporate taxes, where officials are
discussing a reduction to help make Japan more competitive.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said this month it would be
“difficult” to reduce the effective corporate tax rate by 5
percentage points without coming up with revenue sources to
compensate for the lower income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kyoko Shimodoi  in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  