-- Jets, NFL Review Assistant Coach's Tripping of Miami Dolphins Cornerback
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2010-12-13T21:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/jets-strength-coach-apologizes-for-tripping-dolphins-player-in-loss.html
The National Football League is
reviewing an incident in which a New York Jets coach tripped
Miami Dolphins cornerback  Nolan Carroll  as the rookie ran along
the sideline while covering a punt during yesterday’s game.  Sal Alosi, the Jets’ strength and conditioning coach, said
in a televised news conference that he would take whatever
punishment the league or the team gives him.  Alosi, 33, apologized for tripping Carroll during the third
quarter of the Jets’ 10-6 loss, as the defensive back ran just
out of bounds after a Dolphins punt. Television replays appeared
to show Alosi’s knee make contact with Carroll, who was helped
by Jets’ medical personnel after tumbling to the ground.  “I wasn’t thinking,” Alosi said at the team’s practice
facility in Florham Park, New Jersey. “If I could go back and
do it again, I’d sure as heck take a step back.”  Alosi  said he apologized to Carroll and Dolphins coach
 Tony Sparano  after the game, as well as Jets coach  Rex Ryan ,
General Manager  Mike Tannenbaum  and owner  Woody Johnson .  NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said in an e-mail that the league
is reviewing the incident. Ryan said after the game the team
would also look into the matter. Alosi, who joined the Jets as
an intern in 2002, said he may face a fine or other discipline
from the NFL.  Ryan said at a televised news conference this afternoon
that the team is working with the league in determining how to
handle the situation.  “There’s no place for it in football,” Ryan said. “He
made a mistake and he admitted it.”  Blaming Ryan  A former linebacker at Hofstra University on New York’s
Long Island, Alosi spent his first four seasons with the Jets
before directing the Atlanta Falcons’ strength and conditioning
program in 2006. He rejoined the Jets in his current role the
following season.  Carroll, who had a first-quarter interception that set up a
Dolphins’ field goal, returned to the game after being injured
and said he wasn’t angry about the incident. He’s the son of
Florida Lieutenant Governor-elect  Jennifer Carroll .  Dolphins linebacker  Karlos Dansby  blamed Ryan for creating
a team culture in New York that he said encourages bad behavior.  “You take it up with the head coach,” Dansby told
reporters after the game. “The head coach, he opened a can of
worms over there, and now he has to fix it.”  Earlier this season, the Jets said they would pay for a
leaguewide training program on proper workplace behavior after
the NFL said players and coaches exhibited “unprofessional
conduct” toward a female television reporter at practice.  Tony Dungy , the former Indianapolis Colts coach, also criticized Ryan
for his use of profanity in the HBO television series “Hard
Knocks.”  After receiver  Braylon Edwards  was charged in September
with driving while intoxicated, Ryan said he told players he was
tired of dealing with off-field embarrassments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  