-- Kenya Holds Talks on U.S. Ambassador After Cable Disclosure by WikiLeaks
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-12-13T10:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/kenya-holds-talks-on-u-s-ambassador-after-cable-disclosure-by-wikileaks.html
Kenya’s Cabinet will hold talks
today on the conduct of U.S. Ambassador  Michael Ranneberger ,
less than a week after WikiLeaks published a cable he allegedly
wrote that criticized political leaders in the East African
nation for failing to curb corruption, a government spokesman
said.  Kenya is concerned that Ranneberger is inciting poor young
people to bring about a change in leadership through a U.S. aid
program that helps them participate in national reform,
spokesman  Alfred Mutua  said today in a phone interview from the
capital, Nairobi. U.S. Embassy spokesman John Haynes declined to
comment on the allegations.  WikiLeaks published a Jan. 12 diplomatic cable from
Ranneberger saying President  Mwai Kibaki  and Prime Minister
 Raila Odinga  had “vested interests” in failing to curb
corruption and that Kenya needs to reform the police and the
judiciary. The Cabinet will decide over the next few days what
action to take against Ranneberger, Mutua said.  “There’s a disconnect between the reality in Kenya and
what the U.S. ambassador is saying,” Mutua said. “He’s been
here six years and we think it’s a bit too long.”  Berlin-based  Transparency International  ranks Kenya as
among the world’s 20 most corrupt nations. Ranneberger said that
the impunity enjoyed by Kenyan leaders and their failure to curb
corruption risks triggering a crisis worse than the 2008 post-
election violence that killed 1,500 people, according to the
leaked cable published by WikiLeaks.  ‘High-Level’ Corruption  Ranneberger said in the leaked cable that Kenya needs to
take “significant” steps to address “high-level” corruption,
reform the judiciary, overhaul the police force and hold
perpetrators of post-election violence accountable for their
actions. Failure to do so would “greatly enhance prospects for
a violent crisis in 2012,” when the next elections are due, he
said, according to the cable.  While the WikiLeaks cable didn’t prompt today’s Cabinet
meeting, Mutua said the government is “very disappointed” by
the alleged comments, which “confirm” that the ambassador was
providing incorrect information to the U.S. state department.  The U.S. Embassy said in a Nov. 30 statement that it is
spending $47 million on a “Yes Youth Can” campaign that
“empowers Kenyan youth to achieve a greater voice in national
reform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 