-- Kids Take In More Tobacco Smoke in Apartments Than in Houses
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-12-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/kids-living-in-apartments-take-in-more-smoke-than-in-houses-study-finds.html
Children who live in apartments
where no one smoked inside are more likely to be exposed to
 tobacco smoke  than those who live in stand-alone houses,
researchers said.  About 85 percent of children from families who didn’t smoke
inside their apartments had blood proteins indicating exposure
to cigarette smoke, compared with 70 percent in houses,
according to a report released today by the journal  Pediatrics .
About 5,000 U.S. children were studied.  Childhood exposure to cigarette smoke causes more-severe
asthma, respiratory infections and ear maladies, and slows lung
growth, according to the  National Cancer Institute , in Bethesda,
Maryland. There is no safe level for exposure to secondhand
smoke, and neighbors’ smoke may travel through ductwork,
windows, and ventilation systems, the authors wrote.  “Banning smoking in multiunit dwellings by property owners
or by regulation would be the obvious way to mitigate
contamination,” wrote the scientists, who were led by  Karen
Wilson , a pediatrician at the University of Rochester Medical
Center, in Rochester, New York.  The increase in exposure was greatest in white children,
who had triple the amount of contine, a metabolite linked to
nicotine, if they lived in apartments rather than houses. Black
children in apartments had 46 percent more exposure.  Adult nonsmokers in apartments may also be exposed to
secondhand smoke, the authors said. Because tobacco fumes drift,
the source of a person’s exposure may not be a dwelling unit
immediately neighboring that individual’s home, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 