-- Naspers Scours Emerging Markets to Replicate Success of Tencent Investment
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-14T09:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/naspers-scours-emerging-markets-to-replicate-success-with-tencent-stake.html
Naspers Ltd. , whose $32 million bet
on  Tencent Holdings Ltd.  has swelled in value to more than $14
billion, aims to replicate that success by scouring emerging
markets where the two companies are jointly the biggest Internet
investors.  Naspers, South Africa’s biggest media company, and
Shenzhen, China-based Tencent jointly invested $688 million this
year in  Mail.ru Group Ltd. , the Russian e-mail company that owns
parts of Facebook Inc. Tencent has also followed Naspers in
investments in India and Thailand, and said it’s considering
further opportunities with its  biggest shareholder .  The alliance combines Naspers’s experience in investing
overseas with the financial muscle behind Tencent’s 637 million
user accounts as they search for budding dot-coms. That may give
them an edge for their next purchase in the fastest-growing
regions of the worldwide Web as  Google Inc. , the world’s most
acquisitive Internet company, focuses on U.S. acquisitions.  “Naspers has been very successful for a long time
investing in markets that established western investors have
ignored,” said  Bill Bishop , a Beijing-based independent media
consultant. “Naspers created on its own an incredibly powerful
portfolio across the developing world that fits well with
Tencent’s own plans for going out of China.”  400-Fold Increase  The ties stretch back to 2001, when Naspers bought 46.5
percent of Tencent for $32 million. That made Naspers the
 largest shareholder  in what was then a three-year-old company
offering a Chinese instant-messaging service called QQ to 18
million customers.  Tencent  rose 1.2 percent to HK$182 at the 4 p.m. close of
trading in Hong Kong, giving the world’s third-largest dot-com
company by  market value , a capitalization of HK$334 billion ($43
billion). The value of Naspers’ stake, now diluted to less than
35 percent, has since jumped to more than $14 billion.  Naspers targets companies with strong, entrepreneurial
management, rather than start-ups, said  Antonie Roux , head of
the Internet operations and a member of Tencent’s  board of
directors . Rather than controlling investments, Naspers prefers
to offer access to expertise from its “confederation” of
holdings, he said.  “We don’t micromanage these guys,” Roux said in a Dec. 2
interview. “That’s why we haven’t lost one single entrepreneur
founder.”  Latin America, Asia  The African media group also has stakes in more than 50
Internet companies across Africa, Asia, Europe and Latin
America, according to Naspers Chief Executive Officer  Koos Bekker .  Naspers spent 4.57 billion rand ($669 million) on purchases
in the six months to September, including $388 million in
Mail.ru, $144 million on OLX Inc. for its classified-ads
business in Latin America and $44 million in Multiply Inc. for
its online shopping in Southeast Asia.  All of Tencent’s disclosed overseas  purchases  have involved
its African partner. In 2008, it bought a stake in a Naspers
subsidiary in India. This year, Tencent bought 10 percent of
Mail.ru for $300 million and 49.9 percent of Sanook, a Naspers
unit in Thailand.  While Naspers and Tencent pursue assets in emerging
markets, larger U.S. companies may be missing out, according to
Bishop.  Google spent $1.6 billion buying more than 20 companies,
mostly in the U.S., in the first nine months of the year,
according to  regulatory filings .  “We look at acquisitions across the entire globe, but
probably there are more in the United States,” said  Alan Eustace , who serves as a member of Google’s operating committee
with founders  Sergey Brin  and  Larry Page .  No Expatriates  Not all investments by Naspers have been successful. It
entered China in 1998, setting up an Internet service provider.
After failing to earn a  profit , the company shut the business in
2001. The experience taught the company to use local managers
because they are more knowledgeable than expatriates, according
to Naspers.  “We don’t place any expats in any of our businesses,”
Roux said. “Zero. Not a single one.”  With Tencent, Naspers doesn’t mind keeping a secondary role
because of its confidence in Chairman Pony  Ma Huateng  and
President  Martin Lau , CEO Bekker said.  “We make a contribution but we don’t control or we don’t
lead it,” Bekker said in an interview last month. “We are
quite happy with that structure.”  Ma and Chief Technology Officer  Zhang Zhidong  were among
the dozen founders that started Tencent. At least four of them
were 1993 graduates of Shenzhen University, according to the
company’s  website .  $2 Billion War Chest  As the number of QQ accounts surged, Ma began offering add-
ons such as a game portal in 2003, a social networking service
in 2005 and a payment system in 2006. The company went public in
Hong Kong in 2004 and the stock has since jumped almost 50-fold.  Tencent plans to gradually expand internationally, Lau told
investors in May. The company was armed with a war chest of more
than $2 billion in  cash  and equivalents as of Sept. 30 that
could be used for acquisitions.  “We will leverage the strong rapport we built together to
further explore opportunities in emerging markets,” Tencent
said in an e-mail.  Naspers also relies on Tencent for investment advice in
China.  “How are we ever going to understand the Chinese market as
good as they’re going to understand it?” Roux said. “If they
don’t want to do it, we won’t do it.”  Still, Naspers expects U.S. companies will increasingly
follow their strategy of investing in emerging markets.  “While people, even five years ago, pooh-poohed places
like Brazil or China, today they are taken seriously,” Bekker
told investors on Nov. 30. “Competition for good assets will
increase.”  -- Edmond Lococo ,  Nicky Smith ,  Mark Lee . Editors:  Young-Sam Cho ,
 Bret Okeson   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Edmond Lococo  in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net 
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net 
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 