-- Natural Gas Futures Decline For Third Day, Reversing Earlier Gains
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2010-12-13T16:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/natural-gas-rises-on-forecasts-of-colder-weather-in-midwest.html
Natural gas futures declined for a
third day in New York, reversing earlier gains, on speculation
that a midday update to a government weather model will show
moderating temperatures that may reduce heating demand.  Gas futures fell as the  update  to the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration’s Global Forecast System may show
milder weather next week in the eastern and central U.S., said
 Matt Rogers , the president of Commodity Weather Group in
Bethesda, Maryland. Current forecasts predict below-normal
temperatures in those regions.  “Going beyond this week, we could see some relief here in
terms of getting away from below-normal temperatures and back
into more normal winter weather,” said Pax Saunders, an analyst
with Gelber & Associates in Houston. “We still have high
production.”  Natural gas for January delivery fell 8.4 cents, or 1.9
percent, to $4.333 per million British thermal units at 11:10
a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange after rising as much as
2.9 percent. The futures have declined 22 percent this year.  The Global Forecast System model usually begins updating at
about 11 a.m. New York time. The forecast for next week is
usually published at about 11:30 a.m., Rogers said.  “A lot of folks think this midday GFS run is going to come
in warmer,” he said. “People are trying to get out ahead of
the model.”  Temperatures may be below-normal across most of the eastern
half of the U.S. from Dec. 18 through Dec. 22, according to a
Commodity Weather Group forecast sent to clients early today.
Normal temperatures are likely in the Upper Midwest and parts of
the Great Plains from Dec. 23 to Dec. 27, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Buurma  in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  