-- NBC Imports Dutch TV Show From De Mol, Burnett to Take On `American Idol'
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-12-13T23:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/nbc-imports-dutch-reality-show-to-take-on-fox-s-american-idol-.html
NBC  will bring a new singing
competition called “The Voice of America” to the U.S. next
year to challenge Fox’s “American Idol,” the most-watched
prime-time program on television.  The show is modeled after “The Voice of Holland,” which
displaced “Idol” and “The X Factor” as the No. 1 Dutch
talent competition, NBC said today in an e-mailed statement. The
U.S. program will start in the first half of 2011.  “Voice of America” creates a new challenge for “Idol,”
which is undergoing a makeover for its 10th season amid slipping
ratings.  Simon Cowell , an original judge on “Idol,” left to
start a new talent show, “The X Factor,” which will also air
on  News Corp. ’s Fox, starting in September 2011.  “This show truly focuses on amazing voices,” Paul
Telegdy, executive vice president of alternative programming at
NBC and Universal Media Studios, said in the statement. “As
soon as we saw the Dutch format, we knew this was completely
different and really exciting.”  The initial audition process for “Voice of America” will
be blind and based on voice only, NBC said. Four celebrity
artists will form their own teams of singers that will face off
until each celebrity has only one competitor remaining. The
contestants will perform live and be voted on by the TV audience
as they compete for a recording contract, the network said.  De Mol, Burnett  The reality show is produced by  John de Mol  of “Big
Brother” and “Fear Factor” and  Mark Burnett , known for
“Survivor.” It’s also produced by Warner Horizon Television,
which makes “The Bachelor” and “ Randy Jackson  Presents
America’s Best Dance Crew.” Jackson is a judge on “Idol.”  De Mol is the creator of “The Voice of Holland.”  The NBC broadcast network is a unit of NBC Universal.
 General Electric Co.  is selling a majority stake of NBC
Universal to Philadelphia-based Comcast Corp., the biggest U.S.
cable company.  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, lost 10 cents to
$17.62 today in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Comcast  gained  1 cent to $21.32 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
New York-based News Corp., controlled by Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , fell 26 cents to $14.34.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  