-- New York City Hosts `No Labels' Political Group Countering `Partisanship'
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-12-13T23:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/new-york-city-hosts-no-labels-political-group-countering-partisanship-.html
More than 1,000 Democrats,
Republicans and independents gathered today in New York City to
create “ No Labels ,” an organization that says it’s devoted to
reducing “excessive polarization and hyper-partisanship” in
U.S. politics.  The group will pressure “elected officials to put the
labels aside at critical times and work together,” and serve
“as a counterweight to ideological extremes,” it said in a
news release.  The organization’s leadership includes New York Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg . In a speech last week to business leaders in
Brooklyn, the mayor said U.S. economic growth would fall behind
other nations because of “partisan gridlock, political
pandering and legislative influence-peddling.”  Bloomberg, 68, a one-time Democrat, switched to the
Republican Party before running for mayor in 2001 and 2005, and
gave up all party affiliations in 2007, when he explored an
independent presidential bid. He won re-election to a third
mayoral term in 2009 on the Republican and Independence Party
ballots. In a Dec. 12 appearance on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” he
said he would serve his full term and doesn’t have presidential
aspirations.  “I’m not looking at the possibility of running,” he said
on NBC. “No way. No how.”  Castle and Crist  The gathering was set to include Republican U.S.
Representative  Michael Castle  of Delaware, who lost a U.S.
Senate primary to Tea Party advocate  Christine O’Donnell , and
Florida’s  Charlie Crist , a former Republican who ran as an
independent for U.S. Senate and lost to Tea Party-supported
Republican  Marco Rubio .  Democrats were scheduled to include U.S. Senators  Kirsten Gillibrand  of New York, who won election last month, and
Senator-elect  Joe Manchin  of West Virginia, who defeated  John Raese , a media entrepreneur who campaigned with Tea Party
support.  Joe Lieberman  of Connecticut, a Democrat who won re-
election in 2006 as an independent, was also on the roster of
speakers.  The group endorsed the concept of “non-partisan
redistricting,” removing legislative control over how state and
U.S. Congressional districts are drawn in an effort to boost
competition among candidates.  Incumbent politicians “make sure that they don’t have
competitive races, and as long as they are the ones that set the
standards, I don’t think you can expect much change,” Bloomberg
said during a panel discussion.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 Hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 