-- Obama Said to Consider Yale President Levin for Top Economic Advisory Post
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-12-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/obama-said-to-consider-yale-president-levin-for-top-economic-advisory-post.html
President  Barack Obama  is
considering Yale University President  Richard Levin  for a top
economic post, possibly head of the National Economic Council or
chairman of his outside advisory board, according to three
people familiar with the matter.  Obama interviewed Levin last week at the White House. He
is among the top three candidates to replace NEC Director
 Lawrence Summers , who plans to return to Harvard University at
the end of the year, according to an administration official.
Obama also is considering  Roger Altman , the founder  of Evercore
Partners Inc. , and  Gene Sperling , an adviser to Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner .  Levin has been to the White House to discuss several
possible positions, including NEC director, according to two
administration officials. No decisions have been made, either by
Levin or Obama, one of the officials said. The officials spoke
on condition of anonymity because the discussions were private.  The president likely won’t choose a new chief economic
adviser before Summers is scheduled to depart.  “I’m not sure that’s going to get done by the end of the
year,” White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said yesterday
at a briefing.  Levin, 63, whose 17 years leading Yale make him the Ivy
League’s longest-serving president, is an industrial economist.
He received his Ph.D. from the school in 1974. Under Levin, Yale
has doubled the number of undergraduate applications, and its
 endowment  has increased fivefold to $16.3 billion.  Advisory Board  Levin also is a potential candidate to lead the  President’s
Economic Recovery Advisory Board , whose current chairman is
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker .  The panel was established by executive order at the start
of Obama’s administration and its authorization is set to expire
in February. Volcker hasn’t indicated to the White House that he
has plans to change his role, and Obama hasn’t discussed with
him the future of the board during the next two years of the
president’s term, one of the administration officials said.  A spokesman for Volcker, Anthony Dowd, declined to comment.  Yale spokesman  Thomas Conroy  also declined to comment.
Levin told the Yale Daily News on Dec. 6 that “I love my job,
and I’m not looking to leave.”  University Connection  Taking the job as chairman of the advisory board, known as
PERAB, wouldn’t require Levin to relinquish Yale’s presidency.
If he is picked to succeed Summers, Levin would have to leave
his post at the university in New Haven, Connecticut, where he
was once chairman of the economics department. Summers was on a
two-year leave from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Harvard while
serving in the administration.  Obama interviewed Altman, a former deputy Treasury
secretary, on Nov. 16, and Altman returned to the White House
Dec. 3 for meetings with White House aides. Sperling is
frequently at the White House in his capacity as counselor to
Geithner.  Obama’s economic team is undergoing changes as the
administration is trying to accelerate the economy’s recovery
from the worst recession since the 1930s and following midterm
elections in which the Democratic Party lost control of the
House and its Senate majority was narrowed.  Summers addressed the challenges the economy faces in a
speech yesterday at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington.  “While the economy may be out of the intensive care unit,
the patient now faces the long road of not just recovering from
previous affliction, but beginning to address chronic
ailments,” Summers told his audience, citing the need to boost
U.S. output and narrow the deficit.  Tax Overhaul  Obama has vowed to use the next year to begin a debate over
revamping the tax code as part of an effort to trim the federal
budget  deficit , which hit $1.294 trillion in the last fiscal
year.  “The idea is simplifying the system, hopefully lowering
rates, broadening the base,” Obama said in an interview last
week with NPR. “We’ve got to start that conversation next
year.”  The NEC post or the advisory panel chairmanship would give
Levin broad influence over administration policy.  In January 2009, Levin said in a Bloomberg Radio interview
that Obama’s stimulus package “may not be enough” to revive
the economy.  He has also said that observing how successful companies
function taught him to think like a chief executive when it
comes to hiring and promoting in academia.  Former Yale provosts groomed by Levin head three of the
world’s top 10 universities: MIT, the University of Oxford and
University of Cambridge. Former Levin administrators also run
Wellesley College, Duke University and Carnegie Mellon
University.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net  