-- Holbrooke's Rare Condition Is Painful, Often Fatal, Doctors Say
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n   a n d   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-12-14T01:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/holbrooke-s-artery-tear-is-rare-often-fatal-condition-heart-doctors-say.html
The torn aorta that led to the death
of  Richard Holbrooke , the U.S. envoy for Afghanistan and
Pakistan, is an uncommon disorder that isn’t always recognized,
doctors said.  Holbrooke died today at age 69, at George Washington
University Hospital in Washington, according to a member of his
staff and a friend. He had been taken to the hospital Dec. 10
after falling ill and spent about 20 hours in surgery on Dec. 11
and seven hours yesterday, family friends said.  A torn aorta affects about 2,000 Americans yearly, and less
experienced doctors sometimes have trouble recognizing it, said
 Deeb Salem, chairman of medicine at Tufts Medical Center  in
Boston. The  aorta , about an inch wide, is the main artery
carrying blood from the heart to other organs. A tear is often
painful and life-threatening, Salem said in a phone interview.  Patients may suffer a heart attack, stroke, organ damage or
paralysis as the  tear  prevents oxygen-carrying blood from being
pumped to other parts of the body, said Duke Cameron, chief of
cardiac surgery at  Johns Hopkins Hospital  in Baltimore.  Research suggests  tears may result  from a combination of
high blood pressure and weak tissue, and they usually strike
without warning, Salem, from Tufts, said in a phone interview
yesterday. About two-thirds of those who suffer aorta tears have
high  blood pressure , and many have  Marfan syndrome , a genetic
condition that weakens the walls of the major arteries.  Extensive Damage  The length of the initial surgery suggested the damage
suffered by Holbrooke was extensive,  said  James Willerson ,
chief medical officer of the  Texas Heart Institute  in Houston,
in a phone interview yesterday.  The goal of surgery is to repair the site of the tear with
a graft that eases the pressure on other parts of the heart,
which can cause a second rupture, Willerson said. Surgeons may
also have reattached some critical blood vessels that were
blocked by the tear, he said.  The tear begins when the inner lining of the  aorta  splits
and the vessel’s layers begin to separate, Cameron said. The
separation may spread down the aorta and block off other
arteries to vital organs, including the brain, kidneys or
intestines, which cause the organ damage or stroke, he said.  Sometimes the lining blocks the blood supply to the heart,
leading to a heart attack, Cameron said. The actor John Ritter
died this way, he said.  Heart Sac  The most dangerous outcome of the aortic tear occurs when
blood leaks into the sac that surrounds the heart, called the
pericardium, Cameron said. Filling the sac with blood reduces
the space that allows the heart to beat, which can quickly lead
to death, he said.  Doctors treat tears by replacing the upper part of the
artery with a plastic tube, made of  Dacron , Cameron said.
Survivors often need frequent monitoring to make sure the aorta
remains healthy, he said.  Holbrooke has spent the last two years traveling to
Afghanistan and Pakistan, and seeking support from allies to
help promote economic development and stabilize the neighboring
countries that have been plagued by terrorism.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net ;
 John Lauerman  in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 