-- Hong Kong Home Costs Entering Bubble Based on Affordability, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-13T08:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/hong-kong-home-costs-entering-bubble-based-on-affordability-jpmorgan-says.html
Hong Kong’s home prices may be
entering a “bubble” amid a battle between surging liquidity
and government efforts to cool the property market, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said.  Residential real estate values-to- gross domestic product 
has exceeded the island’s peak of 3.13 times in 1997 and may
“overshoot” to 3.5 times next year based on the brokerage’s
forecast of a 15 percent increase in home prices in 2011,
analysts led by  Lucia Kwong  said in a report dated Dec. 10.  “This shows that economic growth cannot catch up with
asset price growth or liquidity is likely to channel mostly into
properties and little to other segments,” they wrote. “The
battle between policies and liquidity will continue in the next
nine to 12 months.”  Hong Kong last month intensified a yearlong battle to curb
surging home prices with additional taxes and policies a day
after the International Monetary Fund warned that asset
inflation may derail the city’s economy. Homes sold within six
months of purchase will now incur a 15 percent stamp duty, and
down payments will increase for most mortgages, with those for
homes costing at least HK$12 million ($1.5 million) rising to 50
percent from 40 percent.  The government acted after home prices climbed more than 50
percent since the beginning of 2009 and surpassed a 1997 peak
with record-low mortgage rates and an influx of Chinese buyers.
The island’s currency peg to the dollar prevents its de-facto
central bank from raising interest rates.  Home Sales Rises  Home transactions picked up after a decline following last
month’s government curbs, according to Centaline Property Agency
Ltd., the city’s biggest privately held real-estate brokerage.
The company handled 53 home sales over the weekend, a 61 percent
increase from the previous week, it said in a press release
yesterday.  The measures show the government’s determination to stem
rising prices, the JPMorgan analysts said. “Cash-rich
investors” who don’t rely on mortgage financing and plan to
hold their properties for more than two years shouldn’t be
affected, they said. Funds from the U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan
to boost purchases of bonds may increase capital inflows and
raise Hong Kong asset prices in the next six to nine months,
they said.  Property Index Rebounds  The  Hang Seng Property Index  rose 1.3 percent at the 4 p.m.
close in Hong Kong, the most since Nov. 29. Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd., Hong Kong’s biggest listed developer, climbed
1.5 percent, and Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., controlled by Li
Ka-shing, the city’s richest man, added 1.4 percent.  The property measure has fallen 3 percent since the
government’s curbs on Nov. 19, more than double the 1.2 percent
drop in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  JPMorgan prefers office and shopping mall landlords to
developers as retail sales during the year-end holiday season
are expected to be good, helping to drive rents higher.  Hongkong
Land Holdings Ltd. , Hysan Development Co. and  Wharf Holdings Ltd. 
are their top picks.  Grade A or prime office rents in the city’s Central
business district will rise about 24 percent in 2011 because of
increased demand and limited new supply, CB Richard Ellis Inc.
said last week. Overall residential values are expected to climb
5 percent to 10 percent, CB Richard Ellis said.  -- Bonnie Cao , with assistance from Richard Frost, Weiyi Lim and
 Tatiana Lau . Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Malcolm Scott .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  