-- Moody's Says Obama Tax Proposal Deal Is Negative for U.S. Credit Rating
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-12-13T18:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/moody-s-says-obama-tax-deal-is-negative-for-u-s-credit-rating.html
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said
President  Barack Obama ’s agreement to extend tax cuts raises the
chance of a negative outlook for the U.S.’s Aaa credit rating
unless offsetting measures are enacted.  While the compromise package is likely to boost economic
growth in the next two years, it will “adversely affect” the
budget deficit, Senior Credit Officer  Steven Hess  wrote in a
note today. Obama’s deal with congressional Republications,
announced Dec. 6, calls for a two-year extension of tax rates in
return for extending long-term jobless benefits for 13 months
and cutting the payroll tax for $120 billion for a year.  “From a credit perspective, the negative effects on
government finance are likely to outweigh the positive effects
of higher economic growth,” New York-based Hess wrote. “Unless
there are offsetting measures, the package will be credit-
negative for the U.S. and increase the likelihood of a negative
outlook on the U.S. government’s Aaa rating during the next two
years.”  The  Congressional Budget Office  estimates budget deficits
of $1.1 trillion for fiscal 2011 and $665 billion for 2012 if
tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 expire on schedule on Dec. 31,
for a ratio of government debt to GDP of 68.5 percent by the end
of fiscal 2012, Hess wrote. The net cost of the compromise
package may be $700 billion to $900 billion, pushing the ratio
to as much as 73 percent, he wrote.  “Higher economic growth should have a positive effect on
government revenues and reduce payments related to
unemployment,” Hess wrote. “However, the magnitude of this
positive effect will be considerably less than the forgone
revenue and increased benefit expenditure.”  There also is a risk that the tax-cut extension may be
renewed during the presidential-election year of 2012, which
might generate a “considerable increase in deficit and debt
levels” unless there are offsetting provisions, he wrote.  Editors: Greg Storey, Paul Cox  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  