-- Hooters Sues Firm Over Challenge to Restaurant Chain's Sale
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2010-12-13T21:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/hooters-sues-chanticleer-holdings-over-challenge-to-chain-s-proposed-sale.html
Hooters of America Inc., a
restaurant chain known for its tank top-clad waitresses, sued a
buyout firm over its challenge to the proposed sale of the
company to Wellspring Capital Management LLC.  Officials of Hooters sued a unit of  Chanticleer Holdings
Inc.  on Dec. 7 in Delaware Chancery Court over the buyout firm’s
bid to block the sale to Wellspring, a private-equity firm whose
holdings include the Checkers hamburger-restaurant chain, court
filings show. While Hooters’ lawsuit has been sealed, other
filings detail the company’s arguments in the case.  The family of Hooters Chief Executive Officer  Robert “Bob” Brooks , who died in 2006, is selling the company to
resolve a dispute over Brooks’s estate, according to South
Carolina’s Myrtle Beach Sun News newspaper. Brooks lived in the
Myrtle Beach area, the newspaper said.  Chanticleer executives contend they got an option to buy
Atlanta-based Hooters when they loaned money to the chain in
2006,  Kevin Abrams , a lawyer for an affiliate of the Charlotte,
North-Carolina investment firm, said in a Dec. 9 court filing.  Hooters is asking a Delaware judge to decide whether
Chanticleer “validly exercised its contractual right of first
refusal” to bar the Wellspring sale, Abrams said in the filing.  Alexis Aleshire, a Hooters of America spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment
about the suit.  Michael Pruitt , Chanticleer’s CEO, declined to
comment on the suit in a telephone interview. Mark Semer, a
spokesman for New York-based Wellspring, said in a phone
interview that he couldn’t comment.  455 Restaurants  The Hooters chain includes 455 restaurants in 44 states and
28 countries, according to the company’s  website . The chain’s
waitresses, clad in tight, white tank tops and orange shorts,
serve sandwiches, seafood and the chain’s signature chicken
wings, it says.  Brooks, known as the chain’s “Worldwide Wing Commander,”
bought Hooters in 1986 and expanded it in the U.S. and
internationally. The 69-year-old executive died in July 2006.
His will divided ownership of the chain among family members and
Clemson University, according to the Sun News.  Brooks’ second wife, Tami Springs Brooks, challenged her
$20 million share under the will and a South Carolina judge
ruled she was entitled to one-third of Brooks’s estate, the
newspaper reported. The Hooters chain may be worth as much as
$250 million, the New York Post reported in February.  Sale Approved  Earlier this month, a South Carolina judge approved the
chain’s sale as part of an agreement between Brooks’s family
members, the Sun News reported.  In the sealed Delaware case, Hooters officials “tacitly
admit” that they have haven’t decided whether to accept
Chanticleer’s bid to exercise its right to buy the chain, Abrams
said in a court filing.  Hooters executives shouldn’t ask a court to “make a
determination that the” purchase option has been properly
invoked, Abrams said in the filing.  Chanticleer executives argue they got the option in 2006
when they loaned money to Hooters Air, a now-defunct airline
linked to the restaurant chain, the Sun News reported, citing
the court testimony of  James P. Creel , a Hooters board member
and an executor of Brooks’s estate. Creel didn’t immediately
return a phone call today seeking comment on his testimony.  The Myrtle Beach airline, which offered cut-rate fares,
shut down in April 2006, citing increases in jet-fuel costs.  Loan Group  Chanticleer was part of a group that loaned $5 million to
Brooks, officials of the investment firm said in a 2008 press
release announcing the acquisition of Hooters franchises.  In March 2008, Chanticleer officials announced they were
buying 22 franchises for $55.1 million. Pruitt, the Chanticleer
CEO, said today that the purchase never closed. The company owns
two Hooters franchises in South Africa, Pruitt said.  The amount of Wellspring’s offer for Hooters hasn’t been
made public. Founded in 1995, the private-equity firm focuses
mostly on companies in industries such as restaurants,
manufacturing and distribution,  Greg Feldman , Wellspring’s
managing partner, told Bloomberg News in November.  Wellspring earlier this year sold restaurant and
entertainment company Dave & Buster’s Inc. to Oak Hill Capital
Partners for $570 million.  The Delaware case is Hooters of America Inc. v.
Neighborhood Restaurants International Inc., 6054, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware.
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 