-- Morgan Stanley’s ‘Boom-Boom’ Bressan Boxes for China’s Poorest
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-13T02:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/morgan-stanley-s-boom-boom-bressan-boxes-for-china-s-poorest-in-shanghai.html
Morgan Stanley’s  Andre “Boom-Boom”
Bressan sweats profusely while trading punches with John “Big
Swingin” Cox as the two pugilists slug it out for three rounds
to a chorus of jeers and cheers from bankers and executives at
Shanghai’s Hyatt hotel.  “I was nervous beforehand but my own  Morgan Stanley 
cheering section boosted my confidence,” said Bressan, 27, who
trained at a local gym for three months to get in shape for the
charity tournament.  Like most of the 13 other fighters, Bressan, an Australian,
had no prior experience before signing up  online  for White
Collar Boxing China. The  fad  started in Gleason’s gym in New
York in 1988 and spread to Asia where it has become popular with
bankers and traders in Hong Kong and Singapore, said Shane Benis,
who organized the Shanghai event and is one of the trainers.  “Brawl on the Bund,” the fourth tournament in China since
2008, on the city’s colonial-era waterfront boulevard, included
an auction to raise money for  Leo’s Foundation , which provides
healthcare for prematurely born children, and  Sport for All ,
which teaches sports to underprivileged children.  A boxing ring was set up in the middle of the Grand
Ballroom of the Hyatt hotel as the 490 guests, decked out in
tuxedos and formal gowns, cut into Beef Tenderloin and imbibed
on Mojitos in between the seven bouts.  “I’m here to watch a good fight and contribute to a good
cause,” said Greg Rumney, director of corporate security in
North Asia for  Walt Disney Co. , who paid 900 yuan ($135) for his
ticket.  Winning Fighter  Bressan won the main event as the referee stopped the fight
in the furious last round after Cox, a Taiwanese-American from
Los Angeles, dislocated his shoulder.  “It was an amazing experience,” Bressan said after the
final bout finished at 10 p.m. on Dec. 11.  Bressan spent as much as 10 hours a week sparring wearing
14-ounce gloves and a head guard when he wasn’t at Morgan
Stanley supporting the U.S. brokerage’s equities operations.
He’s lost 9 pounds from his 5-9, 158-pound frame, and is proud
that he was among the 14 who made the cut out of the 30 who
started. Others include an English teacher, graphic designer and
a former stockbroker. The ages of the group range from 23 to 40.  The only requirements for the fledgling boxers are that
they have no prior fighting history or major health conditions,
said Benis. “You have to be fit as training is pretty tough.”  Julia Taylor, one of the two woman taking part in the event,
said boxing was a chance to overcome her fear of the sport.  “It’s scary and that’s why I want to do it,” said Taylor,
34, whose moniker “Judge, Jury and Jailor” proved to be
apropos after the Australian interior designer and vegetarian
beat her Mexican opponent, Montse “Monster Munch” Aguirre, by
decision in the first match.  For Bressan, the victory was an opportunity to fulfill one
of his life’s goals.  “I get to check this off the bucket list,” he said.  -- Allen Wan . Editors:  Adam Majendie ,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Allen Wan at +86-21-6104-3041 or
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 