-- Morgan Stanley Wins Dismissal of Shareholder Lawsuit Over Employee Pay
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-12-13T19:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/morgan-stanley-wins-dismissal-of-shareholder-lawsuit-over-pay.html
Morgan Stanley  Chairman  John Mack ,
Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  and other executives won a
dismissal of a shareholder lawsuit filed over $45 billion paid
to the firm’s employees over three years.  New York State Supreme Court Justice  Shirley Werner Kornreich  threw out the lawsuit, citing a requirement that
shareholders first make a demand on a board before suing on
behalf of a company or show that such a move would be futile,
according to a Dec. 10 decision.  The “complaint fails to show” that a demand on Morgan
Stanley’s board “would be futile,” Kornreich wrote. “There is
no reasonable doubt that the respective board approvals were not
a valid exercise of business judgment.”  The complaint by shareholders including the Security Police
and Fire Professionals of America Retirement Fund said employee
compensation during 2006, 2007 and 2009 was “unconscionable”
given the firm’s performance, including its reliance on a
government bailout.  The shareholders argued in court papers that making a
demand on Morgan Stanley’s board would have been futile because
its members were “beholden” to the firm. Kornreich rejected
that argument, saying the plaintiffs didn’t show that the board
couldn’t make disinterested decisions.  “We are pleased with the court’s ruling, which dismisses
all claims with prejudice,”  Mark Lake , a Morgan Stanley
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Jay Eisenhofer , a lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  The case is Security Police and Fire Professionals of
America Retirement Fund v. John J. Mack, 600359-2010, New York
State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 