-- Morgan Stanley, Wells Fargo Added to New York's MTA Underwriting Pool
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-12-13T21:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/morgan-stanley-wells-fargo-added-to-new-york-s-mta-underwriting-pool.html
The Metropolitan Transportation
Authority’s Finance Committee added  Morgan Stanley ,  Wells Fargo
& Co . and  Jefferies Group Inc.  to a pool of banks that were
recommended to manage its bond sales.  The Finance Committee of the largest U.S. transit agency,
meeting in New York today, approved 10 investment banks that
will compete to manage $6.2 billion of  new bonds  for capital
projects in the next three years. The full board of the MTA will
vote on the underwriting pool on Dec. 15.  Last month, board members, including  Doreen Frasca  and New
York City Budget Director  Mark Page , said a seven-member group
of banks was too small. The comments came after the agency’s
staff recommended  JPMorgan Chase & Co.,   Barclays Plc ,  Citigroup
Inc .,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .,  Bank of America Corp ., Siebert
Brandford Shank & Co. and Samuel A. Ramirez & Co. as senior
underwriters from a group of 27 applicants.  “A larger group of senior managers, which includes several
firms not previously part of the senior manager pool, assures
MTA of access to a highly capable group of underwriting firms
that will assist MTA in the effective placement of both
variable-rate and fixed-rate bonds,” a Finance Committee  staff
summary  said.  Based on figures from the MTA’s last bond sale in November,
the firms may earn $31 million in fees.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs will manage the first-ever sale of securities
backed by a payroll tax in New York City and seven other
counties served by the agency, the transit agency said. The tax
was adopted as part of a 2009 bailout by the state Legislature.  Siebert Brandford and Samuel A. Ramirez are the first-ever
minority-owned firms to be selected as senior bond managers by
the MTA, according to staff. JPMorgan, Barclay’s and Citigroup
are in the authority’s current five-bank rotation, which was
chosen in 2006.  The agency averages about five bond issues per year,
Finance Director  Patrick McCoy  said last month. The Finance
Committee also approved 16 firms for a pool of co-managers.  The MTA solicited proposals from investment banks to serve
as bond underwriters and interest-rate swap counterparties in
June. Banks seeking to serve as senior managers were judged in
eight categories, including experience with the MTA, bond-
distribution capability and quality of financing ideas.  Build America Bonds  MTA Finance Committee members also approved selling $750
million of Build America Bonds before the federal program, which
subsidizes interest payments, is scheduled to expire on Dec. 31.  The MTA estimated its borrowing cost using taxable Build
America Bonds would be 4.65 percent, compared with 5.5 percent
using traditional tax-exempt bonds, said McCoy.  “We think there’s liquidity to sell the bonds,” McCoy
said today. The agency will use proceeds of the debt to pay for
capital projects. If it goes ahead with the sale, the MTA will
lower the amount of new debt it plans for next year to about
$900 million from $1.65 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark
Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  