-- Lousy Lovers, Wiki Fakers Prod ‘Laziness’ Author to Quit Paris
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-12-13T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/lousy-lovers-wiki-fakers-prod-laziness-author-to-quit-france-interview.html
  France  is a place where philosophers
crib from Wikipedia, teachers belittle their pupils, and paper
pushers forever clamor for more files.  Or so it seems to French author Corinne Maier, who has
decamped to Belgium and written “Tchao la France,” a book
listing 40 reasons to abandon the world’s top tourist
destination.  Maier, a French economist and psychoanalyst, became famous
for urging her countrymen to laze at their desks in her 2004
rant, “Bonjour Paresse” (“Hello Laziness”). Now she’s
roiling reviewers with her arguments in favor of exile, which
run from the financial (a lower cost of living) to the social
(sexist employers) and the cultural (lousy movies).  I called the 47-year-old at her home in Brussels and asked
why she chose to shatter so many romanticized notions about
France.  Nayeri: You dispute the idea that the French are great
lovers. How did you reach that conclusion?  Maier: It’s hard to disclose one’s sources on that subject!
But I don’t think France is a sexy country, despite what
everyone says. Statistics show that the French aren’t very happy
with their sex lives. When you’re bored with your work or with
your life, you’re not necessarily in a chirpy mood the rest of
the time.  Nayeri: So does the French lover exist or not?  Maier: I’ve never met him, but I’m waiting to hear from
people who have.  Sleepy Paris  Nayeri: You say nightlife in Paris is dead.  Maier: Paris is living in the past. It’s very beautiful,
with lots of exhibitions and things to see, but a little sleepy.
It’s turning into a stuffy country club catering to executives
and professionals.  Nayeri: Why doesn’t France produce great thinkers anymore?
You mention  Bernard-Henri Levy .  Maier: BHL is a good example. He was discredited all over
the world for his last book, which quoted  a philosopher who
didn’t exist , something he found on the Internet. BHL, the very
embodiment of the French philosopher, was unmasked. That doesn’t
mean France has no philosophers, just that those on the
frontline are impostors.  Nayeri: You write that a small club of people dominates
every walk of life in France, including the arts.  Maier: Yes. Barriers are thrown up, and the people who are
chosen are more often friends with Mr. Thingamajig than artists
who interest the world.  Mercurial Sarkozy  Nayeri: You give President  Nicolas Sarkozy  a hard time.
What do you have against him?  Maier: The fact that he promises anything and everything,
changes his mind all the time, wants to seduce the electorate,
and doesn’t really govern. That may not be a bad thing,
actually, because he has no vision.  Nayeri: How can Brussels be so much better than Paris?  Maier: My house here is four or five times bigger than what
I could afford for the same money in Paris. Tax-wise, as a non-
salaried, self-employed person, I’m much better off. In France,
I’d pay much higher welfare tax. A lot of French people live in  Belgium  now; it’s crazy, the wave of people moving here.  Dealing in France with the bureaucracy, with your bank,
with economic or political decision-makers is horrible. Any kind
of paperwork is very, very complicated.  Swiss Chocolate Boxes  Nayeri: So why do foreigners stick to the dreamy image of
France they get from movies like “Amelie”?  Maier: It’s like the pictures on Swiss chocolate boxes:
There are views of Lake Geneva and kitsch vistas of a chateau on
a lake. They’re postcards. It reassures people to imagine that
there’s a country where people walk the streets with a beret and
a baguette and live differently, lead a village life.  If you go to France as a tourist, it’s great. You eat well,
the weather in the south is great. But I say settle there, look
for housing, try to talk to the landlord, open an account.
Things will get tough.  Nayeri: Do you ever plan to move back?  Maier: Maybe someday, but not for years. At the moment,
it’s too exhausting, too much of a hassle.  “Tchao la France” is from  Flammarion  (221 pages, 16
euros).  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own. This
interview was condensed from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 