-- Lowest Rates Since Bear Stearns Failure Signal Debt Deal: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2010-12-13T19:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/lowest-rates-since-bear-stearns-failure-signal-debt-deal-argentina-credit.html
Argentina’s borrowing costs are
dropping to the lowest level since March 2008 as the government
pledges to restructure defaulted debt with creditor nations in
talks that begin today.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
notes rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 20 basis points last week
to 507 after touching 497 on Dec. 7, the smallest  difference 
since before JPMorgan Chase & Co. agreed to buy Bear Stearns
Cos. more than 2 1/2 years ago. The yield spread on emerging-
market dollar debt overall shrank 11 basis points in the week to
230.  Argentine dollar bonds returned 34 percent this year, the
most among developing nations tracked by JPMorgan, after
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s swap of $12.2 billion
of defaulted bonds for new securities in June. A settlement with
the Paris Club group of creditors would bolster the country’s
access to international credit markets, helping extend the bond
rally, said  Carola Sandy , a Credit Suisse Group AG economist.  “It may be difficult, but I think the government has made
up its mind that it wants to reach an agreement with the Paris
Club,” Sandy said in a Dec. 10 telephone interview from New
York. “As we see more concrete results, it’s going to help
tighten spreads even more,” she said.  Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  is meeting with Paris Club
officials today in the French capital. Finance Secretary  Hernan Lorenzino  declined to comment Dec. 10 about Argentina’s goals
for the meetings. The Paris Club secretariat didn’t return a
call seeking comment.  Boudou’s Plan  “We have solved this with 93 percent of private creditors
and now this issue remains to be resolved,” Boudou said,
according to an audio recording taped in France and released by
e-mail by the Buenos Aires-based Economy Ministry. “We today
started technical meetings in Paris to reach an accord that
would allow creditors to get their debt paid but in favorable
terms that would allow Argentina to keep growth with social
inclusion and reopen investment in the economy.”  While Argentine debt has rallied, the nation’s borrowing
costs remain the third highest among major emerging markets
after Venezuela and Ecuador, according to data compiled by
JPMorgan.  Argentina owed $6.868 billion as of the end of last year to
the governments of 16 nations including Canada, Germany, Italy,
Japan, Spain, the U.K. and the U.S., according to the Paris
Club’s website. In 1956, Argentina received the first loan the
Paris-based group ever made.  Halted Payments  “As this will be a meeting between Argentina and the Paris
Club Secretariat, the United States will not be a party to the
discussions” said U.S. Treasury spokeswoman  Natalie Wyeth .
Government officials representing Canada, Germany, Italy, Japan,
Spain, and the U.K. declined to comment or didn’t return
requests for comment.  Argentina halted payments to the Paris Club in 2001, when
it also defaulted on $95 billion of bonds. Settling Argentina’s
debt with the group would allow export-import banks from member
nations to renew lines of credit for projects in the South
American country, according to Sandy.  U.S. and European lenders may seek to restore credit to
Argentina within months of an accord since export-import credit
gives priority to goods and service providers from lender
nations struggling after the worst economic slowdown since the
Great Depression, Sandy said.  “It helps them too,” she said.  More Loans  Foreign companies will be able to get loans from their
export agencies at as low as 100 basis points, or 1 percentage
point, above the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, once
credit is restored, said  Miguel Kiguel , a former Argentine
finance undersecretary, in a Dec. 10 interview.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Argentine debt fell
11 basis points to 630 at 2:17 p.m. New York time. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Government warrants linked to growth in South America’s
second-biggest economy rose 0.14 cent to 14 cents, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 3.9733 per dollar today, while
Argentina’s so-called spread above U.S. Treasuries gained 2
basis points to 509.  Boudou may be overestimating his bargaining position, said
Kiguel, who now runs Buenos Aires-based research company
Econviews. Fernandez announced Nov. 15 that the Paris Club
agreed to Argentina’s request to hold the talks without
oversight from the International Monetary Fund.  Club’s Demands  “Argentina is probably too optimistic about how the talks
will go,” Kiguel said. “If they don’t want the IMF involved,
and it looks like they don’t, the Paris Club will demand that
the payment be made within a relatively short period of maybe
18-24 months.”  Argentina’s record $52 billion in reserves, which Fernandez
is using to pay debt, along with the country’s current account
surplus make it unlikely that Paris Club nations will offer
lenient terms, said  Alberto Ramos , an economist with Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. in New York.  Settlement Terms  “My gut feeling is that the Paris Club will demand
something that’s not as easy as what Argentina wants,” Ramos
said. “It’s very hard for Argentina to build a case for
financial hardship that would justify a restructuring over a
long period.”  Argentina’s yield gap above U.S. Treasuries may narrow by
another 50 basis points once the country reaches an agreement on
the debt, said  Kevin Daly , who helps manage $6 billion,
including Argentine bonds, at Aberdeen Asset Management in
London.  “If they can do this it will potentially unlock foreign
direct investment,” Daly said in a Dec. 10 telephone interview.
“Certainly you will see some spread tightening if they are able
to successfully complete the Paris Club restructuring.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  