-- Pakistan Central Bank Chief `Worried' Rate Increases May Hurt Investment
-- B y   N a w e e n   A .   M a n g i
-- 2010-12-14T05:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/pakistan-central-bank-chief-worried-rate-increases-may-hurt-investment.html
Pakistan’s  inflation-fueling
government borrowing is forcing the central bank to raise
interest rates, “crowding out” investment and undermining
economic growth, Governor  Shahid Kardar  said.  “I am worried about the growth aspect, what is going to
happen to the private sector,” Kardar, 58, said in Karachi
yesterday in his first interview since taking charge in
September. “We need 8 percent to 10 percent growth just to
absorb the annual increase in the labor force.”  The last time Pakistan’s economy grew at more than 8
percent pace was in 2005, and a failure to generate jobs for the
two million people entering the nation’s labor force each year
makes the country a recruiting ground for Taliban militants,
analysts said. Kardar said narrowing the budget deficit will
help ease borrowing costs.  “It’s absolutely critical that we get back to a fast
growth path,” said  Nasim Beg , who manages the equivalent of
$170 million in stocks and bonds as chief executive at Arif
Habib Investments Ltd. in Karachi. “If we don’t, we are headed
for serious unrest. No one in the world would like to see us
immerse into financial chaos.”  The State Bank of Pakistan on Nov. 29 raised its benchmark
discount rate for the third time since late July, by a half
point to 14 percent. Consumer prices jumped 15.5 percent in
November from a year earlier, the highest rate among 17 Asian
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Tighter’ Policy  “Some might even argue monetary policy should have been
tighter,” said Kardar, who studied politics, philosophy and
economics at Oxford. “The stance has been what it is because of
these private-sector concerns.”  He said a young labor force is “is a dividend, but a
worrying dividend if it’s not catered for.”  Hundreds of civilians and security officials have died in
retaliatory bomb and gunfire attacks since Pakistan’s army began
an offensive Oct. 17 against Taliban guerrillas in the tribal
region of South Waziristan, near the border with  Afghanistan .
President  Barack Obama  has called Afghanistan and Pakistan the
“epicenter of violent extremism practiced by al-Qaeda.”  Pakistan’s $167 billion economy is lagging behind as
emerging markets from neighboring India to China help lead the
global economic rebound from the deepest postwar recession.
Growth is forecast by the government at 2.5 percent in the year
through June, compared with a 9.1 percent estimate for the
current fiscal year in India.  Economic Growth  The International Monetary Fund, which bailed out Pakistan
with an $11.3 billion loan in November 2008 after the nation’s
foreign-exchange reserves shrank 75 percent to $3.5 billion,
forecasts the South Asian economy will grow 2.75 percent in 2011,
4 percent in 2012 and 5 percent in 2013.  The Karachi Stock Exchange’s 100  Index , which has advanced
24.3 percent this year after a 60 percent gain in 2009, rose 0.5
percent to 11,656.90 at 9:43 a.m. The rupee has declined 1.9
percent to 85.84 against the dollar since Jan. 1, after sliding
6.5 percent in 2009. It traded at 85.79 per dollar at 9:40 a.m.
in Karachi.  “For the moment the currency looks reasonably stable,”
Kardar said. “Once repayments to the IMF begin in 2012, it
could put pressure on the exchange rate but that is something we
continue to monitor very closely.”  Kardar, who was appointed to a three-year term after  Syed Salim Raza  quit in June, expects Pakistan’s economy to expand by
as much as 8 percent in the next two to three years on optimism
the government will curb borrowings.  New Legislation  The  finance ministry  has asked parliament to enact
legislation placing limits on borrowing. Under the legislation,
the government will be required to limit borrowing from the
central bank to 10 percent of the previous year’s revenue.  “If we can achieve this, it will be a structural shift in
the way the economy operates,” said Kardar, who served as the
Punjab province’s finance minister under military ruler  Pervez Musharraf  from November 1999 until January 2001. “It will allow
the availability of credit to the private sector which should be
the engine of growth.”  The government borrowed 280 billion rupees from July 1 to
Nov. 27, according to the central bank, 29 percent more than the
same period last year. Large-scale manufacturing output
contracted 1.5 percent in the three months ended Sept. 30,
according to the  Federal Bureau of Statistics  in Islamabad.  Bond Sales  The finance ministry last week reiterated its intention to
cut bond sales.  “A substantial driver causing inflationary pressure to
intensify is the fiscal deficit combined with low inflows of
international assistance, that is leading to high dependence on
government borrowing from the central bank,”  Sakib Sherani ,
principal economic adviser at the finance ministry in Islamabad,
said in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News on
Dec. 10.  The government needs to tax agriculture, real estate and
capital gains and reduce spending on state-owned companies to
cut the budget gap, Kardar said. State-run companies including
 Pakistan International Airline Corp. , Pakistan Steel Mills Corp.
and Pakistan Railways lose 1 billion rupees a month and the
government should “get out of” these businesses, he said.  The budget shortfall could be as much as 6 percent of gross
domestic product in the year ending June 30, the  central bank 
said Oct. 25, compared with the government’s target of 4 percent.  Pakistan plans to sell bonds in international markets “in
the short term,” to help raise funds, Kardar said, without
elaborating.  “Monetary policy appears to have picked up the entire
burden of the macroeconomic problems, which is a bit unfair,”
he said. “If we change the strategy and make the fiscal side
more manageable, we can achieve eight to 10 percent growth
within the next two or three years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naween A. Mangi in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  