-- Parliament Shuts After Worst Gridlock in 25 Years Fuels Policy Concerns
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2010-12-13T07:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/parliament-to-close-after-worst-gridlock-in-25-years-fuels-policy-concerns.html
India’s  parliament  ended its least
productive session in at least 25 years today amid signs that 
opposition protests over corruption allegations may extend into
early next year when the government must pass its budget.  Lawmakers left the legislature after 22 consecutive days of
gridlock during which four bills have been passed of the  36
planned . The main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  is demanding
a cross-party investigation into claims that the former
telecommunications minister oversaw the sale of mobile-phone
licenses at below-market rates, stripping up to $31 billion from
state revenue. The government says probes by auditors and a
federal crime agency are enough.  “It’s a very serious breakdown. The wheels of the system
are stuck -- we are in gridlock,”  Mahesh Rangarajan , a New
Delhi-based political analyst, said in a phone interview. “The
opposition will play for as long as they can because they
believe this will smear the name of the government.”  Parliament’s budget session will start in February, in
which Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  will present his tax
proposals and spending plans for the financial year starting
April 2011. Growth in India’s $1.3 trillion economy is likely to
surpass the government’s 8.5 percent target for this fiscal year,
Mukherjee said Nov. 30, sparking fears of fresh inflationary
pressures.  ‘Investor Concern’  Failure to resolve the impasse in parliament has sidelined
proposals to change rules on how steelmakers including South
Korea’s Posco and ArcelorMittal acquire land for expansion
projects as farmers’ protests stall up to $100 billion in
investment. A bill to make mining companies share profit with
local communities has also been delayed.  The parliament session that started on Nov. 9 was the most
disrupted since at least 1985, according to the New Delhi-based
 PRS Legislative Research  think-tank. Debates took place over
just 6 percent of the time available, it said.  The standoff is “going to raise concerns for global
investors who are looking at putting their money in India,”
said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , strategist and head of research at
SMC Global Securities Ltd. in New Delhi. “In the last five or
six years there has been a lot of interest in investing in India
and we shouldn’t lose that opportunity.”  Corruption and bureaucratic inefficiency help make India
the riskiest country in Asia for investors, according to this
year’s survey by  Hong Kong-based Political & Economic Risk
Consultancy Ltd.   Insurer Probe  Federal investigators last week searched homes of former
telecom minister  Andimuthu Raja  over the license sales.
Separately, in the past month, federal agents ensnared eight
executives at the nation’s biggest life insurer, a brokerage and
three state-run banks in a housing-loan probe and detained
organizers of the $4.6 billion Commonwealth Games for misuse of
public funds.  Lawmakers led by the Bharatiya Janata Party have held
protests in parliament, not unused to disruptive behavior.  “The opposition in the country, particularly the BJP, is
not interested in the vindication of the law,” new
Telecommunications Minister  Kapil Sibal , said on Dec. 9. “These
people are playing politics,” he said while “important
legislation” drifts.  Congress President  Sonia Gandhi  said the people of India
will judge the manner in which the opposition has disrupted the
session. “Our government has nothing to hide, our government
has nothing to fear,” she told party lawmakers.  Singh ‘Absent’  BJP leaders have criticized Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
for his response to the allegations against a government
minister. “The most visible factors have been the complete
absence and silence of the Prime Minister,”  Arun Jaitley , a
senior party member, told reporters in New Delhi on Nov. 10.  India’s growth story is at risk due to the current
environment of negativity, the Indian Express reported yesterday,
citing  Deepak Parekh , chairman of Housing Development Finance
Corp., India’s largest mortgage lender.  “The big boys in the government are pulling in different
directions and not working as a team,” he said, according to
the paper. “They are following their own agenda, own
departmental agenda, not looking at a broader picture, the prime
minister has to get that organized.”  Raja resigned on Nov. 14, two days before India’s chief
auditor said in a report that a 2008 sale of airwaves at below-
market prices may have cost the state exchequer 1.4 trillion
rupees. Telenor ASA and  Emirates Telecommunications Corp.  were
among operators that purchased stakes in Indian companies the
auditor said weren’t eligible for the licenses.  The Central Bureau of Investigation said it has found
“incriminating” documents as they searched the homes of Raja
and other officials. Raja, a member of a key ally in Singh’s
ruling coalition, denies any wrongdoing.  “Congress is worried they are in a jam now and it is going
to be hard to get out,” Rangarajan said. “When the government
is involved in firefighting, it’s never good for economic
reforms.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Macaskill  in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at   hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  