-- Eagles Win, Take NFC East Lead; Patriots Clinch Playoff Berth: NFL Week 14
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-13T05:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/patriots-beat-bears-for-playoff-berth-jets-lose-2nd-straight-nfl-week-14.html
The Philadelphia Eagles beat the
Dallas Cowboys 30-27 to take a half-game division lead over the
New York Giants, whose game was pushed back to today after the
roof of the Metrodome in Minneapolis partially collapsed.  Michael Vick  threw two touchdown passes and also had a
rushing score for the Eagles, whose win in Dallas capped a day
in which the New England Patriots became the first team to
clinch a National Football League playoff berth.  The Patriots routed the Chicago Bears 36-7 on the road to
tie the Atlanta Falcons for the NFL’s best record at 11-2 and
extend their division lead over the New York Jets to two games.  “It was a good win. That was a good football team with a
good defense,” said Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady , who threw
for a season-high 369 yards and two touchdowns amid snowy
conditions at Soldier Field.  The Jets were beaten 10-6 at home yesterday by the Miami
Dolphins and have failed to score a touchdown in losing their
past two games. The Jets’ record dropped to 9-4 heading into
next week’s game against the Pittsburgh Steelers, who are 10-3
after a 23-7 win over the Cincinnati Bengals.  The Falcons extended their winning streak to seven games
with a 31-10 win over the Carolina Panthers as  Michael Turner 
rushed for three touchdowns. The Falcons remain one game ahead
of the Super Bowl-champion New Orleans in the National Football
Conference’s South Division after the Saints improved to 10-3
with a 31-13 win over St. Louis.  Giants-Vikings  The Giants will seek to tie the Eagles atop the NFC East
when they play the Minnesota Vikings tonight at Detroit’s Ford
Field. The game was rescheduled and relocated after part of the
Metrodome roof caved in yesterday under the weight of 17 inches
(43 centimeters) of snow.  The Eagles (9-4) erased a 20-14 second-half deficit at
Cowboys Stadium as  David Akers  kicked three field goals and
 DeSean  Jackson took a short pass 91 yards for a touchdown.  LeSean McCoy added 149 rushing yards for Philadelphia,
which visits the Giants on Dec. 19.  In the matchup of division leaders in Chicago, the Patriots
followed up their 45-3 rout of the Jets by scoring 33 first-half
points against a Bears defense that had allowed the third-fewest
points in the NFL.  Brady’s 369 passing yards was a season high and he went
without an interception for the eighth game. It was Brady’s
sixth straight game with at least two touchdowns and no
interceptions, tying  Don Meredith  (1965-66) for the longest such
streak in NFL history.  Four Turnovers  New England outgained Chicago 475-185 in total offensive
yards and forced four turnovers by the Bears, who maintain a
one-game lead over the Green Bay Packers in the NFC North.  The Packers (8-5) lost quarterback  Aaron Rodgers  to a
concussion in a 7-3 defeat against the Detroit Lions, who
snapped a 19-game losing streak against division opponents.  At New Meadowlands Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey,
the Dolphins turned two first-quarter turnovers by Jets
quarterback  Mark Sanchez  into 10 points. Jets coach  Rex Ryan 
said that he considered benching Sanchez, who fumbled four times
in a downpour, losing one, and was sacked six times.  “We’ve got to take a hard look and find ways to get
better,” Ryan said at a news conference.  Miami got the win even though it was held to 131 yards of
offense, with quarterback Chad Henne completing five of 18
passes for 55 yards. Two  Nick Folk  field goals were the Jets’
only points.  The Steelers will take a four-game winning streak into
their game against the Jets after  Troy Polamalu  and LaMarr
Woodley returned interceptions for touchdowns in yesterday’s win
over the Bengals.  Saints’ Streak  The Saints won their sixth game in a row as  Drew Brees 
threw for three touchdowns and  Malcolm Jenkins  returned one of
his two interceptions 96 yards for a score at the Superdome in
New Orleans. The Rams fell to 6-7, yet are still tied with
Seattle atop the NFC West.  The Seahawks lost in San Francisco 40-21 as  Alex Smith 
reclaimed the starting quarterback job for the 49ers and threw
three touchdown passes.  The Tampa Bay Buccaneers (8-5) kept pace with the Falcons
and Saints in the NFC South by holding on for a 17-16 win
against Washington as the Redskins botched an extra-point
attempt with nine seconds remaining.  The Jacksonville Jaguars beat Oakland 38-31 on a 30-yard
touchdown run by  Maurice Jones-Drew  with 1:34 left. The Jaguars
improved to 8-5 and hold a one-game lead in the AFC South over
the Indianapolis Colts, who beat Tennessee 30-28 four days ago.  The San Diego Chargers pulled within one game of Kansas
City in the AFC West by beating the Chiefs 31-0.  Also in Week 14, it was Buffalo 13, Cleveland 6; and
Arizona 43, Denver 13. Baltimore visits Houston tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 