-- Pike River Coal Mining Company Unlikely to Repay Loans, Appoints Receivers
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2010-12-13T00:21:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/pike-river-receivers-appointed-after-29-miners-killed-in-blasts-last-month.html
Pike River Coal Co ., owner of a New
Zealand coal mine where 29 miners died after blasts last month,
had receivers appointed after telling major creditors it’s
unlikely to be able to repay loans.  Managers from PriceWaterhouseCoopers were appointed by New
Zealand Oil & Gas Ltd., which holds about 30 percent of the
company’s shares and is one of the largest secured creditors, at
the request of the Pike board, Chairman  John Dow  said in a
statement. Pike River shares have been suspended since Nov. 22
after the first explosion at its mine on the west coast of the
nation’s South Island.  “The company finds itself in a precarious position
financially,” Dow said in the statement.  The first blast at Wellington, New Zealand-based Pike
River’s mine occurred on Nov. 19, followed by a larger explosion
on Nov. 24 that prompted police to say no one would have
survived. Rescue teams have so far been unable to enter the mine,
part of which is burning underground. The incident is the
country’s worst mining disaster in 96 years.  “It will be an extended period before any resumption of
mining can be contemplated, and with Pike River rapidly facing
insolvency, receivership is an unavoidable step,”  David Salisbury , New Zealand Oil & Gas chief executive officer, said
in the statement.  New Zealand Oil  shares  fell 2 cents to 87 New Zealand
cents at 12:45 p.m. in Wellington. Pike River last traded at 88
New Zealand cents on Nov. 19, giving it a market value of
NZ$356.7 million ($266.5 million).  Uncertain Future  The board has advised the receivers that its priorities are
to recover the bodies of the dead men and make the mine safe, to
cooperate with all inquiries into the cause of the disaster, and
to ensure employees get their entitlements, Dow said.  The board also wants to preserve the value of the asset
“while recognizing there is considerable uncertainty about the
future of the mine,” he said. “Both Pike and New Zealand Oil
are supportive of any intentions to eventually reopen the
mine.”  New Zealand Oil  said the Pike board had confirmed its debts
are substantial and in excess of its cash and other immediately
foreseeable sources of funds, the Wellington-based company said
in a separate statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  