-- Pimco's Gross Puts $4.4 Million Own Money on Muni Bond Rebound
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 2010-12-13T23:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/pimco-s-gross-buys-five-of-firm-s-muni-bond-funds-update1-.html
Bill Gross , the co-chief investment
officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., spent $4.4 million
of his own money this month to purchase shares of five
municipal-bond funds run by his firm after tax-exempt debt
tumbled.  Gross, 66, who manages the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pimco, has more than doubled his holdings of the firm’s closed-
end municipal bond funds, according to Securities and Exchange
Commission data. He bought about 451,000 shares of Pimco
municipal bond funds in December, bringing his total holdings to
about 878,000 shares.  The municipal bond market has dropped in the past two
months due to a jump in new bond issuance and rising Treasury
rates. Tax-free holdings lost 2.29 percent in November, the
third consecutive monthly slide and the longest since 2004,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Municipal Master
Index, which accounts for price changes and interest income.  “Bill Gross’s leadership in being a buyer is notable as it
reflects his optimism about a recovery in the underlying
fundamentals of municipal bonds,” said Cecilia Gondor, an
analyst at Thomas J. Herzfeld Advisors Inc. in Miami, in a
telephone interview.  Gross added to shares in Pimco California Municipal Income
Fund, Pimco California Municipal Income Fund II, Pimco
California Municipal Income Fund III, Pimco Municipal Income
Fund and Pimco Municipal Income Fund III on Dec. 9 and Dec. 10,
according to SEC filings today.  He bought 50,000 shares of the  Pimco Municipal Income Fund
III  on Dec. 10 at an average price of $9.75, according to public
records. That fund hit a 52-week high of $12 on Sept. 8.  Closed-end funds issue a fixed amount of shares that trade
on an exchange. The average discount between the share prices of
municipal bond closed-end funds and the value of the underlying
assets owned by the funds has risen from 0.05 percent at the end
of November to 3.4 percent on Dec. 10, Gondor said.  Gross runs the $250 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund . It has
advanced 7.7 percent this year, doing better than 71 percent of
similarly managed funds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Over the past five years, the fund has advanced 8.1
percent, beating 98 percent of peers.  Gross wasn’t available for comment,  Mark Porterfield , a
spokesman for Newport Beach, California-based Pimco, said in an
e-mail response.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
Joanna Ossinger in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  