-- Qantas to Buy Western Australia Charter Operator as Mining Boosts Flights
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   B a t c h e l o r   a n d   D a v e   M c C o m b s
-- 2010-12-13T04:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/qantas-to-buy-western-australia-charter-operator-as-mining-boosts-flights.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. , Australia’s
biggest carrier, agreed to buy Western Australian charter
operator Network Aviation as a mining expansion in the country’s
Pilbara region boosts demand for flights.  The airline plans to expand the charter carrier, which
operates eight aircraft with between 30 and 100 seats, Qantas
said in an e-mailed statement that didn’t disclose terms of the
sale.  “This is an important market, and a growth market, and
Qantas will now become a key player in meeting the needs of the
resources sector,” Chief Executive Officer  Alan Joyce  said in
the statement.  The acquisition would be the carrier’s first of a domestic
passenger airline since it bought Impulse Airlines in 2001,
according to Bloomberg data. Mining company demand for fly-in-
fly-out services to transport employees can’t be met by regular
scheduled flights, Joyce said in the statement.  A housing shortage has pushed up prices for accommodation,
making it more attractive to commute by air to the area from
cities including Perth and Sydney. The Pilbara region generates
about 23 percent of the nation’s merchandise exports.  Network Aviation operates two 100-seat Fokker 100 aircraft
and six 30-seat Embraer Brasilia EMB-120ERs, according to the
Qantas statement. Network Aviation will become a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Qantas Group once the purchase is completed,
the airline said in the statement.  Qantas  gained  0.4 percent to A$2.69 as of 3:31 p.m. in
Sydney trading. The stock has dropped 10 percent this year,
compared with a 2 percent decline in the S&P/ASX 200 index.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Victoria Batchelor  at 
 vbatchelor@bloomberg.net ;
 Dave McCombs  at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  