-- Raw Material Costs Rise for Third Month in November by More Than Forecast
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-12-13T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/raw-material-costs-rise-for-third-month-in-november-by-more-than-forecast.html
U.K. raw material costs rose in
November for a third month by more than economists forecast,
driven by higher prices of oil, energy and imported goods.  Input prices rose 0.9 percent on the month, compared with
2.2 percent in October, the Office for National Statistics said
today in London. The median forecast of 11 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.5 percent increase. On the
year, prices climbed 9 percent.  Bank of England policy makers last week refrained from
increasing their emergency bond purchase program after inflation
remained above its 3 percent limit for an eighth month. Governor
 Mervyn King  has said that consumer-price gains will stay
“elevated” next year. Inflation has been stoked by higher
costs of imports, partly reflecting the weakness of the pound.  “The monthly rise in the input index between October and
November mainly reflected rises in the price of crude oil and
fuels, partially offset by a fall in the price of home-produced
food products,” the statistics office said in a statement.  Five out of nine categories of input prices increased on
the month, led by crude oil and fuel, the statistics office
said. Imported goods from food to metals and chemicals all
showed gains from October.  Companies have raised prices to offset higher raw-material
costs. Producer prices increased by 0.3 percent in November, the
statistics office said on Dec. 10.  “Notwithstanding continued increases in input costs,
trading in the second half to date is progressing well,” DS
Smith Plc, the owner of the Spicers office-products brand, said
in a statement last week.  The ONS “reluctantly” postponed the release of the input-
price data, originally due on Dec. 10, to today because of some
“potential errors,” according to a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  