-- Real Yields Show Dollar Can Still Outperform With Bernanke Printing Money
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-12-13T16:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/real-yields-show-dollar-can-still-outperform-with-bernanke-printing-money.html
The U.S. bond market is giving
dollar bulls more reason to be optimistic after driving the
greenback higher against the other 16 major currencies since the
first week of November.  Inflation-adjusted, or real, yields on benchmark 10-year
Treasuries are higher than for similar-maturity notes in
Germany, the U.K. and Japan, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That may help the U.S. lure foreign capital to
finance the $1 trillion budget deficit even as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  floods the global financial system with
cash by purchasing $600 billion of government debt.  “The yield story is important for the dollar,” said  Derek Halpenny , European head of currency research at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London, who predicts a 9.3 percent gain
versus the euro next year and a 9.6 percent advance against the
yen. “If we continue to see an improvement in economic data,
that’s going to push U.S. yields higher.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s  U.S. Dollar Index , which
measures its performance against those of six trading partners,
has risen 1.6 percent since Nov. 12, when the Fed began
purchasing Treasuries in its second round of so-called
quantitative easing. The U.S. 10-year real yield was 2.15
percent at the end of last week after averaging 1.74 percent
during the past decade.  Most Traded  The dollar is 3.4 percent stronger against the euro in the
period to $1.3226, 1.7 percent higher versus the yen at 83.95
and up 1.9 percent against the pound, trading at $1.5802. The
dollar is the world’s most-traded currency, followed by the
euro, yen and pound, according to the Bank for International
Settlements in Basel, Switzerland.  A survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc. of 20 money managers
controlling $1.34 trillion found that all forecast the dollar
will be stronger or little changed versus the euro during the
next three months and 90 percent project the same against the
yen. The poll by the Jersey City, New Jersey-based Reid
Thunberg, a unit of ICAP Plc is dated Dec. 13.  U.S. 10-year real yields are more than a percentage point
 higher  than the Japanese equivalent, approaching the most since
October 2009. The Japanese yield ended last week at 1 percent,
down from this year’s high of 3.07 percent on Jan. 8. Euro real
yields peaked at 2.49 percent on Jan. 4, before falling to 1.05
percent last week. They are 0.32 percent in the U.K.  Yield Help  Higher yields may help the dollar the most versus the yen,
according to  Ronald Leven , executive director and currency
strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York.  It tends to climb against the yen as U.S. yields increase
relative to Japanese rates. The correlation coefficient between
dollar-yen and the spread between U.S. and Japanese two-year
yields averaged 0.52 since 2005, Bloomberg data show. A
correlation of one means the pair move in lock step, while minus
one means they move in opposite directions.  Even after rallying almost 6 percent from an 11-month low
on Nov. 4, the dollar remains undervalued against 10 of the 16
most-traded currencies, according to a measure of purchasing-
power parity compiled by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development in Paris that measures the relative
prices of goods across countries.  The dollar is 27 percent below fair value against the yen,
36 percent undervalued versus the Swiss franc, 33 percent
against the Norwegian krone, 31 percent versus the Danish krone
and 30 percent against the Australian dollar, the measure shows.  ‘Best Value’  “Our fair-value estimates suggest that the U.S. dollar
offers the best value amongst the G-3,” said Leven at Morgan
Stanley, referring to the economies of the U.S., euro-zone and
Japan.  Real yields have had little effect on the euro rate this
year. U.S. real yields were mainly below equivalent European
rates when the dollar climbed to a four-year high against the
region’s single currency in June.  The median forecast of at least 36 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg is for the dollar to trade at $1.35 per
euro by the end of September 2011. The U.S. currency will climb
to 90 yen by the end of next year, the data show.  Changes in the dollar against the euro in the past two
years have been more influenced by stock-price movements,
correlation data show. Declines in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index accounted for almost 50 percent of the greenback’s gains
versus the 16-nation currency in the 120 days to Dec. 10,
according to the data.  Libor Comparisons  Shorter-term rates are working against the U.S. The three-
month dollar  London interbank offered rate  was 0.3 percent last
week, compared with 0.957 percent for the equivalent euro rate,
0.745 percent for Libor in sterling and 0.183 percent for yen
Libor.  Rising U.S. yields have tended to  coincide  with a weaker
dollar since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
which drove demand for the greenback as a haven. An increase in
10-year Treasury yields was more strongly correlated with a
falling dollar in September than at any time since 1998.  “Some of the tools that we use in the foreign-exchange
community, such as interest-rate differentials, have become
meaningless concepts,” said  David Bloom , global head of
currency strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc in London. “Risk-on,
risk-off has driven everything.”  Gathering Pace  That relationship may be ending as the U.S. economic
recovery gathers pace, according to  Ian Stannard , a senior
currency strategist in London at BNP Paribas SA, France’s
biggest bank. The Dollar Index rose 0.9 percent last week to
80.07, while U.S. 10-year yields jumped 31 basis points to 3.32
percent, the biggest rise since the period ended Aug. 7, 2009.
The yields were at 3.34 percent today.  The Dollar Index fell 0.9 percent today to 79.346, gaining
snapping a five-day gain.  “The risk-on, risk-off view has to change as economic
divergence takes place, with the U.S. economy standing out,” he
said. “As we see relative outperformance of U.S. assets, the
dollars that are being generated will stay at home.”  U.S. gross domestic product will expand 2.6 percent in
2011, more than the 1.4 percent predicted for the euro region
and the 1.4 percent forecast for Japan, according to the median
estimate of at least 15 economists in Bloomberg surveys. The
U.K. will grow 1.9 percent, another survey showed.  The agreement last week between President  Barack Obama  and
the Senate to extend Bush-era income-tax cuts may add as much as
half a percentage point to GDP next year, according to  Michael Feroli , the chief U.S. economist at New York-based JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  ‘Far From Over’  “The situation in Europe remains troubling, and the future
is more uncertain than ever,” International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said in Geneva the day
the deal was announced. The effects of the global financial
turmoil “are far from over,” he said.  Higher U.S. yields will give a boost to the dollar for as
long as they reflect economic growth and not a concern about the
U.S. budget deficit, according to  Geoffrey Yu , a foreign-
exchange strategist in London at UBS AG, the world’s second-
biggest currency trader.  “For the greenback, favorable growth differentials and
problems elsewhere will be helpful,” he said. “The euro zone
is facing austerity next year, while Japan’s economy will likely
remain stagnant. The dollar will be the outperformer next year
in G-3.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  