-- Real Volatility Ebbs as Mantega Takes on Foreign Investors: Brazil Credit
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-12-13T22:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/real-volatility-ebbs-as-mantega-takes-on-foreign-investors-brazil-credit.html
Swings in the Brazilian real are
slowing to a 27-month low as central bank dollar buying and a
tax on foreigners’ bond purchases offset investment flows into
Latin America’s biggest economy.  Implied volatility on one-month options for the real versus
the dollar, which reflects traders’ expectations for currency
fluctuations over the next month, sank to 9.95 percent last
week, the least since September 2008, from 18.38 in May,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Similar options on the
Polish zloty rose to a four-month high of 19.8 percent on Nov.
30 before falling to 18 percent last week.  Brazil’s central bank bought $2.35 billion last month and
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  tripled a tax on overseas
purchases of local debt to halt the real’s two-year, 43 percent
rally. The country’s inflation-adjusted interest rates, the
highest in the world after Croatia, are luring investors seeking
alternatives to relatively low yields in the U.S., Europe and
Japan. Brazil will raise the key rate by 200 basis points next
year to 12.75 percent, futures trading shows.  “You have relatively consistent demand of foreign exposure
trying to push the dollar-real down, but at the same time you
have the central bank and the government trying to push it up,”
 Nick Chamie , global head of emerging markets at RBC Capital
Markets in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “These two
opposing forces are pushing the real into a tight range.”  The real fell 0.1 percent against the dollar in the past
month to 1.7070 as of Dec. 10, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Currency War’  Mantega, who will retain his post under President-elect
 Dilma Rousseff , boosted the tax twice in October after the real
climbed to 1.65 against the dollar, the strongest in more than
two years. The currency is up 5.7 percent in the past six
months. Brazil is ready to take new steps to prevent further
gains in the real, Mantega said on Dec. 9, two months after
telling reporters that countries are engaging in a “currency
war” to weaken their exchange rates and bolster exports.  The central bank bought $7.6 billion in the currency market
in October and $10.8 billion in September to stem the
appreciation of the real. It has bought dollars every day since
May 8, 2009.  The central bank didn’t return messages seeking comment
after business hours.  “If the market pushes it closer to the recent high of 1.65
or so, the risk of intervention will rise and then we’ll go from
words to actions,”  Marjorie Hernandez , a currency strategist at
HSBC Holdings Plc in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“That’s the sensitivity level.”  Spending  Concern Rousseff will fail to slow spending growth to help
ease inflation may fuel bigger swings in the real, said  Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin America fixed-income research at
IDEAglobal in New York.  President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  increased spending 27
percent in the first nine months of the year.  Annual  inflation  through November was 5.63 percent, the
highest level since February 2009. Brazil targets inflation of
4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  “That will filter into the volatility of the currency,”
Alvarez said in a telephone interview.  Implied volatility on one-month options for the real versus
the dollar rose 10.99 percent on Dec. 10.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 167 at 5:25
p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Yield Differential  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years was little changed today at 111, according to CMA
prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 fell 4 basis points to 11.90 percent today.  The real gained 0.8 percent to 1.6939 per dollar.  Investors are pouring money into Brazil to take advantage
of the country’s high-yielding assets and the fastest  economic
expansion  in more than two decades. Brazil’s 10 percent real-
denominated bonds due in 2021 yield 12.33 percent, or 901 basis
points more than similar-maturity  U.S. Treasuries , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg through Dec. 10.  Brazil’s economy will expand 7.5 percent this year, the
most since 1986, according to a central bank survey of analysts
released on Dec. 6. The U.S. economy, the world’s largest, will
grow 2.8 percent, according to the median estimate of 77
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Rate Futures  Traders in the interest-rate futures market are betting
 Alexandre Tombini , who is awaiting Senate confirmation to become
the next central bank president, will increase benchmark
borrowing costs by 50 basis points at his first meeting in
January. At president  Henrique Meirelles ’s final meeting on Dec.
8, the board held the rate at 10.75 percent.  U.S. interest-rate futures show a 12 percent chance the
Federal Reserve will raise its target rate to 0.5 percent in
January from between zero and 0.25 percent.  “Global investors are willing to invest in Brazil because
rates are higher,”  Roberto Melzi , a Latin America local-markets
strategist at Barclays Plc in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “The fundamentals are better than the U.S. and
Europe. On the other hand, you have this government willing to
fight the flow. That’s why we don’t see much more volatility
than that over the medium term. You have conflicting forces.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  