-- Treasuries Gain Before Fed as 10-Year Yield Near 6-Month High Spurs Buying
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-12-13T22:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/treasuries-decline-on-speculation-congress-will-pass-extension-of-tax-cut.html
Treasuries rose before tomorrow’s
Federal Reserve statement on the economy as 10-year note  yields 
near a six-month high attracted investors.  Bonds also advanced as a federal judge ruled against the
U.S. health-care overhaul, easing concern that the government
will struggle to contain record deficits. Less U.S. debt was
submitted today for purchase by the Fed under its program of
quantitative easing, giving Treasuries a boost.  “Yields are more attractive now than they were three
months ago,” said  John Spinello , chief technical strategist in
New York at Jefferies Group Inc., one of the 18 primary dealers
that trade with the Fed. “For people who haven’t been active in
Treasuries, it’s a much better entry point now if they feel
rates are not going to go higher.”  The yield on the 10-year note fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 3.28 percent at 5:18 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625
percent security maturing in November 2020 rose 3/8, or $3.75
per $1,000 face amount, to 94 1/2.  The 10-year note yield earlier climbed seven basis points
to 3.39 percent, the highest level since June 3, on speculation
Congress will support economic growth by passing President
 Barack Obama ’s plan to extend tax cuts. The yield has risen 63
basis points since Nov. 11, the day before the Fed began the
$600 billion second round of debt buying.  Tax-Cut Extension  Treasuries slumped last week, pushing 10-year  yields  up by
31 basis points, after Obama agreed on Dec. 6 to a two-year
extension of current tax rates in exchange for another 13 months
of jobless benefits for the long-term unemployed and cutting the
payroll tax by $120 billion for a year.  The weekly gain in the yield was the biggest since a five-
day increase of 37 basis points on Aug. 7, 2009, when the U.S.
payrolls report showed fewer-than-forecast job losses.  Fed policy makers meeting tomorrow may signal that they are
open to boosting debt purchases beyond the amount already
announced to spur job growth and avoid deflation.  Buying more government bonds is “certainly possible,” Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an interview broadcast on CBS
Corp.’s “60 Minutes” on Dec. 5, referring to the policy of
quantitative easing. “It depends on the efficacy of the
program” and the outlook for inflation and the economy,
Bernanke said.  Primary dealers submitted today $18.268 billion of debt due
from June 2016 to November 2017 for possible purchase by the
central bank, compared with $33.126 billion in the same maturity
range on Dec. 9. The Fed bought $7.79 billion of debt today,
part of $105 billion in purchases over the next month.  ‘Taken Aback’  “People were taken aback that the securities offered in
the buybacks was only $18 billion,” said  Charles Comiskey , head
of Treasury trading at Bank of Nova Scotia in New York. “It’s
just less securities being offered, meaning people’s positions
have been pared down. The price action is positive.”  Treasuries rose earlier today as U.S. District Judge  Henry Hudson  in Richmond, Virginia, ruled that the Obama
administration’s health-care overhaul is unconstitutional
because it forces individuals to buy insurance.  The insurance requirement goes beyond Congress’s powers to
regulate interstate commerce, Hudson ruled. He didn’t address
other provisions such as expanding Medicaid that are unrelated
to the insurance mandate. He held off from ordering the
government to stop work on putting the law into effect.  Two-Year Yields  Two-year yields fell six basis points to 0.58 percent after
increasing six basis points to 0.69 percent, the highest since
June 23. The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year notes
over 2-year debt was 2.69 percentage points after touching 2.73
percentage points, the widest since April 30.  Sustaining growth may be challenging without an improvement
in the  unemployment rate,  which climbed to a seven-month high of
9.8 percent in November.  Retail sales  rose for a fifth month in November, increasing
0.6 percent, as Americans began their holiday shopping,
according to the median forecast of 77 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey before tomorrow’s report from the Commerce
Department. Sales rose 1.2 percent in the prior month.  Consumer prices excluding food and fuel costs increased 0.6
percent in November from a year earlier, according to a
Bloomberg survey before a report from the Labor Department on
Dec. 15. Such an advance would match October’s increase, which
was the smallest annual gain on record.  “These are some of the most important economic numbers of
each month and will likely give the market a fair view of where
the economic recovery stands and how much work has to be done to
declare a ‘real’ turn upward,”  Kevin Giddis , president of
fixed-income capital markets at the brokerage firm Morgan Keegan
Inc. in Memphis, Tennessee, wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  