-- Paras Pharma to be Acquired by Reckitt Benckiser for About $724 Million
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-13T14:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/reckitt-benckiser-agrees-to-acquire-india-s-paras-for-about-762-million.html
(Corrects to remove erroneous market ranking in first
paragraph.)  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc , the
maker of Lysol cleaners and Nurofen painkillers, agreed to buy
India’s Paras Pharmaceuticals Ltd. for about 32.6 billion rupees
($724 million), extending its push into consumer healthcare.  Reckitt Benckiser will acquire a 63 percent stake in Paras
from Actis LLP, the companies said in a statement today. Sequoia
Capital and the remaining Paras shareholders, including the
company’s founder  Girish Patel  and his family, will also sell
their shares to the Slough, England-based company.  Paras, based in Ahmedabad in the western Indian state of
Gujarat, meets Chief Executive Officer  Bart Becht ’s aim of
expanding in health and personal care to help buffer slower-
 growth  in sales of household cleaners. Reckitt Benckiser this
year agreed to buy U.K. condom maker SSL International Plc for
2.54 billion pounds ($4 billion). Paras, the maker of Moov pain
relief ointment, has annual sales of about 4 billion rupees.  “All the boxes are ticked,”  Marco Gulpers , an analyst at
ING in Amsterdam, said by phone. “Acquiring the number 1 brand
in analgesics sounds like a smart move, the structure means they
gain full control, the brands are pretty strong and it’s in line
with previous strategy.”  Reckitt Benckiser rose 52 pence, or 1.5 percent, to 3,561
pence at 9:02 a.m. in London trading, the day’s highest price.
The  stock  has climbed 6.1 percent this year.  ‘A Little High’  The maker of Veet hair remover is paying 8.1 times sales,
according to Bloomberg calculations, or 30 times operating
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  “The initial price reads a little high, but this is an
emerging market where growth is substantially higher,” Gulpers
said. The industry standard is around 4 times sales, he said.  SSL was acquired for the equivalent of 3.1 times sales or
18 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. That was Reckitt’s first major  purchase  since the
$2.3 billion takeover of Adams Respiratory Therapeutics in 2008.  Developing markets, which include India, Latin America,
Africa, Middle East and Asia, account for about a fifth of
 Reckitt ’s revenue. That trails  Unilever’s  Asia and Africa
division and  Procter & Gamble Co. ’s developing markets, Latin
America and northeast Asia units, which both account for 37
percent of group sales.  ‘Not A Big Deal’  “This is not a big deal, but following on from the SSL
acquisition we believe marks a fundamental shift in the Reckitt
investment case,”  James Edwardes-Jones,  an analyst at Execution
Noble, said in a research report. “It’s a slower growth
business dependent on acquisitions which, so far, don’t appear
especially value accretive.” He has a “sell” rating.  Paras makes BoroSoft moisturizing skin cream and Zatak
deodorant. Other brands include D’Cold, the flu remedy, Dermicol
for prickly heat, Krack, a cracked heel treatment, Itch Guard
anti-fungal cream, and Set Wet, a hair gel and deodorant brand.  Actis stands to make more than a threefold gain on its 2006
investment in Paras, based on a purchase price of $145 million
disclosed in an Aug. 3 e-mail.  The London-based private-equity firm has $4.7 billion of
funds under management, according to today’s statement. It will
continue to pursue investments in India’s consumer-products and
manufacturing industry, and financial and business services,
said J.M. Trivedi, an Actis partner and head of South Asia.  About $1 billion has been earmarked for India of which more
than half has already been committed, Trivedi said in an
interview. There will be equal focus on buyouts and taking
minority stakes, he said.  Reckitt, which will fund the deal from existing facilities,
was advised by JPMorgan Chase & Co. Actis and the other Paras
shareholders were advised by Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net ;
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge   jstonge@bloomberg.net  