-- Republican National Committee Chief Steele Likely to Decline Second Term
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2010-12-13T19:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/republican-national-committee-chief-steele-likely-to-decline-second-term.html
Republican National Committee
Chairman  Michael Steele  is likely to announce he won’t seek a
second term in an evening conference call today, according to a
Republican committee member close to the issue.  Steele’s tenure, which began in the aftermath of President
 Barack Obama ’s 2008 election, has been marked by a series of
comments that drew criticism and by internal grousing over the
committee’s finances, including spending on the 2012 Republican
convention in Tampa.  Steele, the committee’s first black chairman, was selected
to help recast his party’s image after two cycles of major
Republican losses at the ballot box.  “Steele got elected because we wanted a great communicator
to put up against their great communicator,” said  Alex Castellanos , a Republican strategist. “What we needed was a
great manager,” he said. “Clearly, the RNC is moving on.”  Doug Heye, a Republican committee spokesman, declined to
comment. Steele has organized a conference call for 7:30 p.m.
Washington time, during which he is expected to make the
announcement.  Pressure has been building on Steele to give up the party
chairmanship, as he has been losing support from key allies in
recent weeks.  Lost Ally  Earlier this month, Reince Priebus, chairman of the
Wisconsin Republican Party and Steele’s former legal counsel,
announced he would run to lead the national party. Priebus was a
key Steele ally, and his candidacy would likely peel support
away from a re-election bid. He has the backing of Henry
Barbour, a nephew of Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour .  In November, Republican political director Gentry Collins
resigned with a letter criticizing Steele’s management of the
national committee, saying fundraising failures led to some
close Republican losses in the last election.  A handful of other contenders have already announced their
bids, including  Maria Cino , a former official under President
 George W. Bush  who has the backing of former national party
Chairman  Ed Gillespie  and former Vice President  Dick Cheney .  Others include former Michigan Republican Party Chairman
Saul Anuzis and Ann Wagner of Missouri, a former RNC co-
chairwoman.  Norm Coleman , a former Minnesota senator, is also
considering a bid.  Criticized by McCain  In July, Arizona Republican Senator  John McCain , the
party’s 2008 presidential nominee, criticized as “wildly
inaccurate” a comment by Steele that the conflict in
Afghanistan, which began after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks, “was a war of Obama’s choosing.”  The comment is among many that have created controversy
during Steele’s chairmanship.  In an interview with GQ magazine in 2009 Steele called
abortion an “individual choice,” sparking an outcry among the
Republican Party’s social conservative base. Steele later
clarified that he was pro-life.  Shortly after he was elected, Steele said he wanted to
apply the party’s principles to “urban-suburban hip-hop
settings.” The comment became fodder for comedians and critics
given the Republican Party didn’t have a single black member in
the House or Senate at the time.  Steele also faced criticism after financial reports showed
the party paid almost $2,000 for meals at a West Hollywood,
California, nightclub that features topless dancers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  