-- Tiffany Keys, Blue Nile's Tuxedo Pearls Show Reviving U.S. Consumer Demand
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2010-12-13T21:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/reviving-consumers-snap-up-tiffany-keys-blue-nile-pearls.html
Justin Rosenblatt plans to fork over
$2,000 this month for a  Roberto Coin  stackable ring, Sonya Renee
monogram necklaces and Wendy Mink hoop earrings for his wife and
friends. That’s twice what he spent on sparkle last year.  “It’s a more extravagant and personal gift,” said 37-
year-old Rosenblatt, the Los Angeles-based vice president of the
CW Network, which airs “Gossip Girl.” “I am still cognizant
of my budget, but feel there is a bit of reprieve in the
economy.”  Rosenblatt is one of the shoppers driving this holiday
season’s jewelry sales, which may rise 6 percent to $4.39
billion, according to Los Angeles-based market researcher
IBISWorld Inc. Last year they sank by one-tenth.  Tiffany & Co. 
expects sales to rise 10 percent in 2010; Blue Nile Inc. as much
as 12 percent this quarter.  Such discretionary purchases show consumers have gained
strength and presage a broader recovery, said  Milton Pedraza ,
chief executive officer of the New York-based Luxury Institute.  “Jewelry is often the last category to turn upward,”
Pedraza said. “It is probably the most discretionary of all the
categories purchased in a store. This tells me that the economic
cycle overall has turned.”  U.S. consumer confidence reached a six-month high, an
economic report showed last week. Consumer spending may rise an
average 2.6 percent in 2011, compared with a 1.7 percent
increase this year, according to the median estimate of 56
economists in the latest Bloomberg monthly survey.  Rising Market  A rising stock market also has left some Americans primed
to spend more this holiday season. Jewelers depend on the year-
end period for annual sales more than any other type of
retailer, according to the National Retail Federation, a
Washington-based trade group.  A third of jewelers’ fourth-quarter sales take place in the
10 days before Christmas, said  Michael McNamara , a vice
president at MasterCard Advisors’ SpendingPulse, a Purchase, New
York-based research firm.  New York-based Tiffany was “delighted” with the initial
customer response to its new collection of exclusive yellow
diamonds, Mark Aaron, a spokesman, said Nov. 24. The company’s
popular keys -- which come in a variety of shapes and sizes in
diamonds, platinum and gold -- were performing well, he said.  Last year the world’s second-largest purveyor of luxury
jewelry saw sales fall 11 percent in the Americas. The sales
rebound has helped shares rise almost 50 percent in 2010. They
declined 16 cents to $63.52 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  Engagement Jewelry  In addition to gifts, engagement jewelry sells well at this
time,  Diane Irvine , CEO of online jeweler  Blue Nile , said in an
interview. Blue Nile shares dropped 55 cents to $56.38 at 4 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Purchases at  Tiny Jewel Box Inc. , a family-owned jewelry
store on Connecticut Avenue in Washington, accelerated so much
last month that the shop ran out of items it expected to sell in
December, said CEO Jim Rosenheim. The strongest demand came from
the top tier of wealthy customers, he said.  “People are feeling more secure that they are not falling
into the abyss,” Rosenheim said. “People are not going ‘Oh my
God, I really have to do this.’ Attitudinally, they are doing it
more open-hearted, with their wallets more open.”  That has more jewelers flaunting trinkets online, in
windows and in advertisements. Seattle-based  Blue Nile  is
displaying its largest number of styles after sales improved in
October and November, ranging from a $40 silver infinity love
knot pendant to diamond eternity necklaces for $50,000. One
customer even bought a $250,000-plus diamond engagement ring via
the Blue Nile iPhone app in November.  ‘Additional Juice’  The company had 80,000 diamonds available for custom
jewelry orders, up from 65,000 last year, said Irvine, 51. Blue
Nile also introduced new pearl strand styles, including a $185
“tuxedo” strand of alternating white, black and gray pearls,
as well as colored gemstones.  Signet Jewelers Ltd. , the world’s largest jewelry retailer,
is putting “additional juice” in fourth-quarter ads, CEO  Terry Burman  told analysts last month. The Bermuda-based company
operates Kay and Jared stores.  Signet is better positioned than some of its rivals, which
foundered during the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009
and was the worst since the Great Depression.  Almost 4,000 U.S. jewelry retailers and suppliers went out
of business between the start of 2009 and the end of November,
or more than 10 percent, according to the Jewelers Board of
Trade in Warwick, Rhode Island.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  