-- Central Banks in Sweden, Norway May Watch Credit Risks as Inflation Lags
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-12-14T10:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/riksbank-norges-bank-may-watch-credit-risks-as-inflation-lags.html
Central banks in Sweden and Norway
may focus on credit risks when they meet to discuss interest
rates this week as household indebtedness in the two Nordic
economies offsets below-target inflation, economists said.  Policy makers at both central banks will announce their
rate decisions tomorrow. The Stockholm-based Riksbank will
probably raise its benchmark  repo rate  a quarter of a percentage
point to 1.25 percent, according to 17 of 22 economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg. Five expect no change. Oslo-based Norges Bank will
keep its  deposit rate  at 2 percent, according to all 19
economists in a separate  Bloomberg survey . Both banks have said
they plan to raise rates in 2011.  Swedish house prices have risen 18 consecutive months and
jumped an annual 5 percent in the three months through October.
Governor  Stefan Ingves  said he “personally” tracks  household
credit  when deciding rates, in a Nov. 11 speech. Norway’s
 property prices  rose an annual 6.2 in October, more than the
central bank expected, it said on Nov. 30. At the same time,
inflation has lagged behind the Riksbank’s 2 percent target
since December 2008 and behind the Norges Bank’s 2.5 percent
target since August 2009.  “The Riksbank has been more explicit than Norges Bank in
putting out these worries,” said  Gizem Kara , an economist at
BNP Paribas in London, in an interview. Still, “we will see a
further increase in consumer spending and given that, Norges
Bank might become a bit more worried.”  ‘Move Faster’  Riksbank policy makers meet today and announce their
decision at 9:30 a.m. in Stockholm tomorrow.  Norges Bank  policy
makers publish their rate announcement at 2 p.m. in Oslo
tomorrow.  Norges Bank will next year “address the problem of low
interest rates generating too-strong price growth in the  housing
market , too-strong credit growth and too-strong growth in
private consumption,” said  Frank Jullum , chief economist at
Fokus Bank. The risks will “force Norges Bank to move faster.”
The Riksbank “is clearly going to think the same as Norges
Bank,” he said.  The prospect of more rate increases has strengthened the
two countries’ currencies. The Norwegian krone has outperformed
the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg against the euro
and the dollar since the start of the month, gaining 1.9 percent
against the euro and 5.5 percent against the dollar. The Swedish
krona rose 3.2 percent against the dollar this month, though
it’s little changed against the euro.  Currency Gains  The krone gained 0.5 percent against the dollar to 5.8906
at 10:43 a.m. in Oslo. Against the euro, it was trading 0.2
percent higher at 7.9123. The krona rose 0.3 percent against the
dollar to 6.8117 and was unchanged against the euro at 9.1499.  Sweden’s central bank has raised borrowing costs three
times since July as policy makers steer the largest Nordic
economy through the European Union’s biggest rebound.  Gross
domestic product  surged an annual 6.9 percent last quarter
helping reduce unemployment to 7.5 percent in October, from an
April higher of 9.5 percent. The economy will grow 4.8 percent
this year, the government estimates.  The pace of the recovery has fueled consumer spending and
demand for credit.  Household borrowing  growth has averaged 10.7
percent a month over the past six years, Bloomberg data show.  Asset Bubbles  According to  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG, the financial crisis has created imbalances
that are forcing the Riksbank and other central banks to look
beyond inflation targeting as they search for tools to tackle
looming asset bubbles.  “We know what happens if you leave asset bubbles alone,”
Gullberg said in an interview last week.  Still, the Riksbank is split in its view on how to treat
credit growth when making rate decisions. Two of the bank’s six
board members, Deputy Governors  Karolina Ekholm  and  Lars E.O. Svensson , have warned against losing sight of the inflation
target and argue that the bank’s rate path is too steep, given
the outlook for price growth.  Headline inflation  accelerated to 1.8 percent in November
from 1.5 percent in October. Inflation won’t reach the bank’s
target until 2012, its forecast based on annual averages shows.
The bank on Oct. 26 scaled back planned rate increases on
concern recoveries in the U.S. and Europe may falter.  Since then, Deputy Governor  Lars Nyberg  said central banks
may need to bolster regulatory controls as banks are more likely
to accept higher rates than lending restrictions.  Credit-Driven Bubble  “Monetary policy may in some cases be needed as a
complement” because “there will probably be quite considerable
resistance to using regulation to prevent a credit-driven
bubble,” Nyberg said in a Dec. 6  speech .  Norges Bank, which last year became the first in Europe to
reverse crisis easing, in November voiced concern about “the
risk of bubbles” if interest rates stay too low for too long.  The bank, which in October pushed back tightening plans by
about six month to the middle of next year, expects house prices
to rise 8 percent this year, compared with 2.7 percent in 2009.  “House prices will become a concern again,” said  Bjoern- Roger Wilhelmsen , a senior economist at First Securities ASA in
Oslo and a former central bank economist. He says policy makers
may resume rate increases as early as March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  