-- Royal Bank of Canada Debt Rating Cut by Moody’s
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-13T22:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/royal-bank-of-canada-deposit-credit-rating-cut-to-aa1-from-aaa-moody-s.html
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded
 Royal Bank of Canada ’s credit rating for the first time in at
least 15 years to Aa1 from Aaa because of the lender’s increased
focus on investment banking and trading.  Royal Bank’s commitment to its capital markets business
“potentially exposes bondholders to increased earnings
volatility and poses significant risk management challenges,”
Moody’s said today in a statement.  Royal Bank’s capital markets unit represents about 45
percent of the balance sheet at the Toronto-based lender,
Moody’s said. The bank is attributing about 25 percent of the
firm’s common equity to capital markets, the rating company
said.  Royal Bank’s downgrade leaves  Toronto-Dominion Bank  as the
only Canadian lender with Moody’s highest rating of Aaa. Moody’s
said Oct. 25 that the credit ratings of Royal Bank, the
country’s biggest lender, may be lowered. Royal Bank’s rating at
Moody’s is at the second highest level, bringing it more in line
with Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, which rates the bank
AA-, its fourth-highest grade.  “We’re among the highest-rated banks in terms of credit
ratings globally, and this is supported by very strong risk
management practices,” Royal Bank spokeswoman  Gillian McArdle 
said. “We view this as a minor rating change that has minimal
impact to our overall business dealings.”  Moody’s last upgraded Royal Bank’s rating in March 2007.  Shares Rise  Royal Bank  rose 7 cents to C$52.82 at the 4 p.m. close of
trading at the Toronto Stock Exchange. The stock has fallen 6.3
percent this year, the worst performer among the 10-company
 S&P/TSX Banks Index .  The downgrade “will continue to put pressure on the bank
to improve its business balance through growth of businesses
that can generate steadier, more annuity-like streams of
earnings -- like Canadian banking,” Desjardins Securities
analyst  Michael Goldberg  said in a note.  Manulife Financial Corp., Canada’s largest insurance
company, also faced a ratings cut today. Standard & Poor’s
lowered the long-term counterparty credit rating to A- from A.
S&P said it believes earnings from Manulife’s U.S. operations
will be weaker than previously expected.  Manulife  fell  10 cents to C$16.79.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  