-- Rubber Climbs to Record in Tokyo as Supply Shortage May Deepen on China
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-12-13T10:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/rubber-climbs-to-record-in-tokyo-as-supply-shortage-may-deepen-on-china.html
Rubber climbed to a record as rain
cut production in Southeast Asia, worsening a shortage as demand
for the commodity used in tires expands in China and India. The
cash price in Thailand reached an all-time high.  May-delivery rubber on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange climbed
to as high as 400 yen per kilogram (4,746 a metric ton), before
ending so-called night trading at 399.6 yen. Trading in this
session is settled on Tuesday.  Futures advanced after China’s central bank refrained from
increasing interest rates and government reports showed China’s
economy is gaining momentum, boosting speculation that demand
from the largest user will keep expanding. China’s  industrial-
output growth  quickened to 13.3 percent last month from a year
earlier, topping economists’ median estimate of 13 percent.  “The figures from China showed economic growth accelerated,
regardless of government measures to cool expansion,”  Takaki Shigemoto , an analyst at research company JSC Corp. in Tokyo,
said by phone today. “The data, together with a lack of a rate
increase by China, created a bullish mood among investors,
leading to a rally in equities and commodities markets.”  May-delivery rubber in Shanghai rose as much as 4.5 percent
to close at a daily limit of 35,320 yuan ($5,302) a ton. The
contract reached a record 38,920 yuan Nov. 11.  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, gained as much as 2.9 percent to
2,923.77. China’s central bank ordered banks to set aside more
reserves instead of increasing borrowing costs as had been
expected by investors over the weekend.  ‘Positive News’  The central bank’s lack of action “is fairly positive
news,”  He Zhen , who helps manage $301 million as general
manager at Shanghai Huili Asset Management. “The central bank
will be very cautious about raising interest rates.”  China’s increase in reserve requirements for banks reduced
the chances of an increase in interest rates before the end of
this year to less than 50 percent, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  The brokerage reiterated its prediction that China will
raise interest rates by more than 200 basis points by the end of
2011, according to the report by analyst  Dong Tao .  Cash rubber in Thailand surged to a  record  138.55 baht per
kilogram, boosted by a supply shortage and the Tokyo rally,
according to the  Rubber Research Institute of Thailand .  The price will likely extend gains as latex output in the
country starts a seasonal decline as early as next month, said
 Hisaaki Tasaka , an analyst at Tokyo-based broker ACE Koeki Co.  China, India  “Rain persists in southern Thailand, causing a lack of
supply,” Varut Rungkhum, analyst at commodity broker Agro
Wealth Ltd. said by phone from Bangkok.  The weaker yen was also supportive of rubber, Sureerat
Kunthongjun, an analyst at Agrow Enterprise Ltd., said by phone
from Bangkok. The dollar was at 84.19 yen from 83.95 yen Friday.  The deficit in India may widen to 840,000 tons in 2020 from
175,000 tons next year, according to Vinod Simon, president of
the All India Rubber Industries Association. In 2015, the
shortfall may be 687,000 tons, Simon said.  China’s sales of passenger cars including multipurpose and
sport-utility vehicles increased 29.3 percent to 1.34 million
last month, higher than the previous record of 1.32 million in
January, according to the  China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers . The pace of growth was the fastest since April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  