-- Rwanda Sees Increased Mining Investments After Ban in Congo, Minister Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2010-12-13T09:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/rwanda-sees-more-mining-investments-after-ban-in-congo-minister-says.html
Rwanda expects increased investment
in its minerals industry following the suspension of mining in
eastern parts of the neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo,
according to  Christophe Bazivamo , Rwanda’s minister for forestry
and mining.  “We expect investors who want to mine and trade minerals
from Congo to now do that in Rwanda because of the ban,” he
said in an interview in Kigali yesterday.  Congolese President  Joseph Kabila  on Sept. 9 suspended most
mining in the North Kivu, South Kivu and Maniema provinces in an
effort to wrest control of the industry from “mafia groups.”
The suspension will continue while the Congolese army tries to
stabilize the area around Bisie, the region’s biggest tin-ore
mine, Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said on Oct. 25.  “We will determine the impact of the ban on our exports in
January,” said Bazivamo. “But we know that investors can get
the minerals they were getting from Congo here in Rwanda.”  Since the  Congolese  ban, mining companies in Rwanda have
started boosting production, while the number of inquiries from
miners interested in starting operations have increased,
Bazivamo said. He declined to comment further.  Rwanda produces about 5 percent of the world’s tantalum,
used in electronics, and about 4 percent of global tungsten
production, according to the latest available information on the
 website  of the U.S. Geological Survey. The central African
nation also produces cassiterite, or tin ore.  Rwanda’s government is investing in geological data in an
effort to attract more investment into the country, Michael
Biryabarema, director of the Rwanda Geology and Mines Authority,
or OGMR, said in Kigali on Dec.4.  Minerals currently account for about 30 percent of Rwanda’s
exports, according to the OGMR. Exports of minerals may increase
to $60 million this year, from $54.6 million in 2009, the Rwanda
Development Board has said. 