-- RWE Workers Plan Strike to Reduce German Electricity Supplies This Week
-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s   a n d   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 2010-12-13T12:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/rwe-guarantees-electricity-supplies-following-strike-threat.html
RWE AG , Germany’s biggest power
producer by capacity, will be affected by strike actions this
week as the Ver.di labor unions plans to reduce generation.  “There will definitely be some strike actions this week
but we can’t say now when and where,” Guenter Isemeyer, a union
spokesman, said today by phone from Dusseldorf. “The actions
will lead to lower electricity output and will force RWE to buy
expensive electricity in the wholesale market.”  A union commission rejected RWE’s offer of a 3 percent pay
increase over a period of 16 months in addition to a one-time
payment of 1,000 euros ($1,327). Workers are demanding a 6.5
percent increase over 12 months. Ver.di plans to give the latest
possible notice of strike action to prevent RWE from being able
to buy electricity beforehand at cheaper prices, Isemeyer said.  In October, French day-ahead power prices jumped to seven-
month highs, exceeding 75 euros a megawatt hour on the Epex Spot
SE exchange, as strikers protesting against French pensions
reforms cut capacity at Electricite de France SA’s facilities.
 German power for tomorrow  rose 5.3 percent to 67.06 euros on
Epex.  Sites all over Germany may be affected by the strikes and
workers will stage protests at plants as well as grid facilities
and administrative offices, according to the  Ver.di  services
union in the western state of North Rhine-Westphalia.  RWE  said
there won’t be any power disruptions to customers.  “We can guarantee electricity supply for our customers,”
Juergen Frech, an RWE spokesman, said in an interview, declining
to comment on wage negotiations between the two sides. E.ON AG
is Germany’s biggest utility by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  