-- Sanofi Extends Deadline for Genzyme Offer to Jan. 21
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2010-12-13T21:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/sanofi-extends-18-5-billion-genzyme-offer-after-0-9-of-shares-tendered.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA , the French
drugmaker making a hostile bid for  Genzyme Corp. , extended to
Jan. 21 the deadline for the U.S. biotechnology company’s
investors to tender stock.  The offer of $69 a share, or about $18.5 billion, had been
set to expire Dec. 10. About 2.2 million shares, or less than a
percent of the stock outstanding, were tendered by the deadline,
the Paris-based company said in a statement today.  “This allows for more time to find the right price, and
for Genzyme to start opening its doors to Sanofi,” said  Eric Le Berrigaud , an analyst at Raymond James in Paris, in a telephone
interview today. He has a “buy” recommendation on Sanofi
shares.  Sanofi, France’s largest drugmaker, took its offer for
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme directly to shareholders
on Oct. 4, after the U.S. company’s chief executive officer,
 Henri Termeer , spurned the bid as too low and refused to
negotiate. The offer, made public Aug. 29, undervalues Genzyme’s
stable of experimental drugs and ignores expected revenue growth
after the company fixed manufacturing flaws that caused drug
shortages, Termeer said.  “The results of the tender offer reported today
demonstrate that our shareholders strongly support the view of
the board that the Sanofi offer substantially undervalues
Genzyme,” Termeer said in a statement today.  Genzyme Shares  Genzyme  shares  have traded above $69 since the offer was
made public, suggesting Termeer has shareholders who support his
refusal to negotiate with Sanofi at that price.  “Genzyme values itself much higher than the current offer
from Sanofi,” said  Michael Obuchowski , chief investment officer
at First Empire Asset Management Inc. in Hauppauge, New York, in
an interview last month. “And investors value Genzyme higher
than the current offer from Sanofi.”  The U.S. company wants Sanofi to both increase its offer
and to make a later payment based on sales goals for its
experimental multiple sclerosis drug Campath, three people with
direct knowledge of the matter said Dec. 7. Sanofi is unwilling
to meet both demands, they said.  Sanofi’s bankers at Evercore Partners Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. met with Genzyme’s advisers from Credit Suisse Group
AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. over the past few weeks to
discuss the companies’ differing views of Genzyme’s value, the
French drugmaker said in a regulatory filing today. They talked
about using additional payments based on Campath to help bridge
the gap, according to the filing.  No Information  Sanofi was given no confidential information on Genzyme and
there’s no assurance the talks will continue, according to the
filing.  Sanofi Chief Financial Officer  Jerome Contamine  told
Bloomberg News on Dec. 1 he still considered the $69-a-share bid
a “very good price.”  Genzyme shares rose 48 cents to $70.30 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Sanofi fell 31 cents to 49
euros in Paris.  Sanofi is seeking  acquisitions  to replace revenue the
company is losing as some of its biggest-selling products, such
as the blood thinner Plavix and the cancer drug Taxotere, face
competition from generic medicines.  Genzyme’s drugs are less likely to face generic competitors
because they’re made from living cells and are harder to copy
than pills made from chemicals. The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration designated the therapies as orphan drugs because
they’re for diseases without other treatment options, giving
them more patent protection.  ‘Opportunistic’  Sanofi’s $69-a-share offer is “opportunistic and
inadequate,” Termeer wrote in a Nov. 8 letter to Sanofi CEO
 Chris Viehbacher , which was published in today’s filing. “We
continue to have the support of our shareholders” and “are
open to a transaction that appropriately recognizes Genzyme’s
intrinsic value and prospects.”  The deal would be the biggest hostile takeover in the drug
industry since the transaction that created Sanofi-Aventis in
2004, according to Bloomberg data. Sanofi-Synthelabo acquired
Aventis for about $64 billion after raising its bid once.  Genzyme said today it will hold an analyst and investor
meeting in New York on Dec. 20 to discuss the commercial
prospects for Campath.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 