-- Saudi Arabia Said to Cut Naphtha Exports to Asia on Refinery Maintenance
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-12-13T03:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/saudi-arabia-said-to-cut-naphtha-exports-to-asia-on-refinery-maintenance.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s
biggest state-owned oil company, may reduce naphtha exports to
Asia next year because of refinery maintenance, said buyers who
were notified of the company’s plans during supply talks.  The company, known also as Saudi Aramco, could cut
shipments by 10 to 20 percent in the first half of 2011, said
four buyers who participated in contract discussions held
earlier this month, requesting anonymity as the talks were
confidential. Asia buys around 4 million metric tons of naphtha
through term contracts with Saudi Arabia every six months,
according to estimates from two of the people.  Supplies are likely to decrease in February or March, when
the producer carries out maintenance work at a refinery in
Jubail, the people said. Saudi Aramco Shell Refinery Co., or
Sasref, a joint venture between Saudi Aramco and Royal Dutch
Shell Plc located in Jubail, will undertake its next total
shutdown in 2011, a company official said in January 2009.  Rabigh Refining and Petrochemicals Co., a joint venture
between Sumitomo Chemical Co. and Saudi Aramco, also plans to
shut its plant for 30 days of maintenance starting from the
third week of April,  Ziad Al-Labban , the unit’s chief executive
officer, said at a conference on Dec. 8.  Refining margins from making naphtha have climbed amid
speculation Saudi Arabian supplies will decrease next year, the
buyers said. Prices of  open-specification grade naphtha  for
delivery to Japan were at a premium of $161.02 a ton above Brent
crude oil on Dec. 10, compared with $138.74 a ton on Nov. 10,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The value of the crack spread
has increased 16 percent from a month earlier.  Price Premium  The producer set the price for Rabigh grade naphtha
delivered to Asian buyers in the first half of 2011 at a premium
of $16 a ton above its benchmark formula, two people involved in
the negotiations said on Dec. 1. A-180 grade was sold at a
premium of $17 a ton, Jubail at $15 a ton and A-310 at $14 a ton.
A-310 is loaded from the Red Sea port of Ras Tanura.  For supplies in the six months to December this year, Saudi
Aramco offered Rabigh-grade naphtha at $21 a ton above its
benchmark and Jubail at a premium of $19 a ton, traders said in
May. Jeddah grade was sold at $17 a ton, A-310 grade at $19 a
ton and A-180 grade at $20 a ton.  Saudi Aramco sells naphtha free-on-board, requiring buyers
to pay shipping costs. Its benchmark formula contains Middle
Eastern naphtha prices published by Platts and Argus Media Group,
two oil-pricing services. The company sells naphtha on an annual
basis under contracts that allow for the renegotiation of terms
at mid-year.  Naphtha, distilled from crude oil, is a raw material for
gasoline and petrochemicals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  