-- Foreclosed U.S. Home Sellers Target Australians as Currency Reaches Parity
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-12-14T05:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/seized-u-s-home-sellers-seek-to-lure-currency-rich-australians.html
Vincent Selleck, whose Sydney-based
 888 U.S. Real Estate  started finding foreclosed U.S. homes a
year ago for Australian investors, received almost half of all
inquiries in the last two months.  “We’ve been swamped since the Australian dollar reached
parity with the U.S. dollar,” said Selleck, 52, who handled
1,300 queries in the last 12 months, more than 530 of them in
the past two. “At the beginning, people were quite skeptical.
In the past two months, the spike we’ve seen is incredible.”  Selleck is among a growing number of real estate agents who
have set up to lure Australians -- who are armed with a currency
that surpassed the U.S. dollar in October for the first time
since 1982 -- to buy in the U.S., where an average home costs 62
percent less than its local equivalent. Morgan Stanley estimates
about 6.5 million U.S. homes face repossession, on top of the
2.5 million that have been seized since 2005.  The median U.S. home price has declined 26 percent since a
June 2007 peak to $170,500, according to  data  from Washington-
based  National Association of Realtors . The average house in
Australia’s eight capital cities cost A$460,000 ($453,000) in
the September quarter, according to RP Data, a Brisbane-based
property researcher.  About 2,000 U.S. homes worth about $400 million were
purchased by Australian and New Zealand residents in the year to
March 31, according to the most recent report from NAR, making
up about 1 percent of non-U.S. buyers. Canada, Mexico and the
U.K. made up about 42 percent of the $41 billion worth of U.S.
homes purchased by non-U.S. buyers in the period, according to
NAR.  Touting Bargains  “Australians won’t have a major impact on the national
market,”  Thomas Lawler , founder and president of Lawler Housing
and Economic Consulting in Leesburg, Virginia, said in a
telephone interview. “But they could potentially have an impact
on certain local markets; parts of Florida, Texas, for example,
where any influx of capital for buying is important.”  Arizona, California, Florida and Texas accounted for 53
percent of U.S. homes bought by foreign buyers, according to NAR.  Selleck and others like him are trying to connect more
Australians with foreclosed homes in the U.S. Property companies,
on both sides of the Pacific, are offering services that include
finding and renovating the homes, vetting tenants, property
management, and setting up limited liability companies.  Melbourne-based realtor Andrew Allan’s  My USA Property  has
had a 10-fold increase in inquiries in the past two months to
between 400 and 600 a week, he said.  Sydney Chase , a Sodus, New
York-based real estate consultant, plans to travel to Australia
for the second time in a year in April to meet a growing pool of
potential investors, he said.  Dollar Surge  Their proposition: investors can buy properties that would
cost as much as A$1 million in Australia -- such as a four-
bedroom, two-bathroom house with a pool in Sydney or Melbourne -
- for about $50,000 in cities including Atlanta and Dallas.  Australia’s dollar, which peaked at $1.0183 last month, was
trading at 98.43 U.S. cents yesterday and has climbed 9.7
percent this year versus the U.S. dollar, the second-biggest
gain among Group of 10 currencies. Since its low of October 2008
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., the
Australian currency has surged 63 percent.  Michael Collins, 34, who moved to Atlanta from Sydney and
started  Top Rental Returns  at the beginning of this year, said
buyers can expect rental returns of as much as 20 percent on
such deals, a rate unheard of in Australia.  More Renters  More Americans will be renting as U.S. foreclosures climb
and homeownership -- at a 10-year low of 66.9 percent in the
third quarter -- continues to drop, driven by near-10 percent
 unemployment  and the end of a government tax credit for
homebuyers, said  Stan Humphries , chief economist at Seattle-
based real estate data provider  Zillow Inc.  That can translate
into attractive returns for investors, he said.  The number of homes offered in foreclosure auctions
averaged 110,000 a month in the third quarter compared with
about 98,000 in the same period a year earlier, CoreLogic Inc.,
a Santa Ana, California-based real estate information company
said in a report yesterday.  In contrast, Australia’s housing market is about 40 percent
overvalued and 70 percent of landlords make losses on their
rental properties, said  Gerard Minack , Sydney-based global
developed market strategist at Morgan Stanley.  Risks  Michael Bridges, who paid $51,500 to buy a four-bedroom,
two-bathroom house in Covington, an eastern suburb of Atlanta,
through Collins’s company, plus another $9,000 for renovations,
expects his investment to be worth $150,000 in another 10 years,
a rate of increase he says he could never hope for in Australia.  Bridges, 40, visited the U.S. twice after doing research
online and stayed with Collins and his business partner Bronwyn
Douglas for a week before paying them $4,000 to buy and manage a
property for him, he said.  A tenant moved into the home last weekend, paying $1,200 a
month, said Bridges, who owns a business that makes refrigerator
magnets. He already has two investment properties in Melbourne’s
suburbs, and plans to buy another nine houses in Atlanta next
year, he said.  Investors should be wary, said Chris Gray, chief executive
officer of Sydney-based real estate investment consultant  Empire .  “They pitch it as a pro that it was $250,000 and you’re
getting it for $50,000, and you’ll get rent on that,” he said.
“But the property might actually be worth only half that. Or
they might not get a quality tenant, who doesn’t pay the rent or
trashes the property.”  ‘Very Dangerous’  Dan Pennington, sales director for  Property4peanuts.com ,
run by Maidstone, U.K.-based agent  The Foreign Property Shop ,
also warned investors against “bidding blind.”  “This can be very dangerous as you could purchase what
looks like a good cheap property but it may have $10,000 worth
of debt and need $20,000 spent on it to bring the property up to
code,” Pennington, who has sold properties to 24 Australian
buyers between August 2009 and November 2010, said in an e-mail.  Atlanta, Dallas, Memphis and parts of Florida are among the
most promising areas to buy in, driven by the prospect of
population and employment growth, said agents including
Australian Matthew Dunne, co-founder of U.S.-based
HouseBuyersUSA.com, and Greg Uehling, who has built up Sydney-
based Tandem Uehling’s U.S. property business over the past year.
Detroit, California and Las Vegas are places to avoid, they said.  Florida Homes  Aran Dunlop, 28, moved to Cape Coral, Florida, from
Melbourne in July and set up Dunlop Capital LLC to buy
foreclosed properties in the state, and to avoid the “risk of a
significant decline in the Australian market,” he said. Since
he moved, he’s bought two foreclosed properties: a stand-alone
home in Fort Myers for $15,600, and a pre-fabricated home on its
own lot in the same city for $2,400.  He’s spent $13,000 and $7,000, respectively, on renovations,
and rents them out for $750 and $400 a month, he said. Dunlop,
who worked in Singapore as a bond sales trader until February,
used his own money for the purchases, and is now in the process
of buying three apartment buildings with a total of 62 units for
$1.1 million, which he’ll borrow to finance.  “The market is pretty close to the bottom,” said Dunlop,
whose company plans to own about $10 million of property and
expand into Atlanta in the next year. “You get very high rental
returns. Even if the property value stays where it is for a long
time, you can make a lot with cash flow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  