-- Senators Snowe, Brown Seek to Amend Tax Agreement to Include Yuan Measure
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-12-13T18:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/senators-snowe-brown-seek-to-amend-tax-agreement-to-include-yuan-measure.html
Senators  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio
Democrat, and  Olympia Snowe , a Maine Republican, proposed
amending the tax bill in the U.S. Senate to include a China
currency measure.  The Senate should incorporate the bill that passed the
House of Representatives in September, which would let companies
petition for higher duties on some Chinese imports to combat any
advantage from an undervalued currency, the senators said today.  “Addressing Chinese currency manipulation is vital to
getting our economy back on track,” Brown, a critic of the tax
package negotiated between President  Barack Obama  and Republican
leaders, said in a statement. Snowe has said that she supports
the tax package.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
hasn’t decided whether to permit amendments to the package
extending Bush-era tax cuts,  Jim Manley , a Reid spokesman, said
in an e-mail, making prospects for the Brown-Snowe proposal
uncertain. The Senate is scheduled to take a procedural vote on
the $858 billion tax-cut compromise today, and approval by 60
senators would clear the way for final action tomorrow. A House
vote may take place later this week.  China amassed a $201 billion  trade surplus  with the U.S.
for the first nine months of this year, more than the U.S.
deficit with the next seven-largest trading partners combined,
according to Commerce Department data.  Lawmakers such as Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York
Democrat, have said a weak Chinese yuan is one reason for the
trade gap, and have pressed China to curb its purchase of
dollars and let its currency rise.  House Measure  The House voted 348-79 in September to pass the legislation
letting U.S. companies petition for duties on Chinese imports.  Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  is scheduled to visit
Washington tomorrow for talks with Commerce Secretary  Gary Locke 
and U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk . That meeting is set to
focus on protection for copyrighted software and music, and
government procurement in China, and doesn’t include discussions
of currency policy.  The legislation wouldn’t “trigger immediate action, but it
does ratchet up the pressure,”  Peter Morici , an economist at
the University of Maryland, said in an interview. “And it would
put some additional pressure on Obama to act.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 