-- Serbia Doesn't Need Additional IMF Funds, Central Bank Chief Soskic Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-12-13T14:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/serbia-doesn-t-need-additional-imf-funds-central-bank-chief-soskic-says.html
Serbia has no need to draw
additional money from the International Monetary Fund as
foreign-exchange reserves are “stable and high,” central bank
Governor  Dejan Soskic  said.  The central bank’s net foreign-exchange reserves are at 4.5
billion euros ($5.9 billion), 500 million euros above the end-
2011 minimum net foreign-asset level agreed with the IMF as part
of a 3 billion-euro loan.  Foreign-exchange reserves are “stable and high, while room
for market interventions is still wide enough,” Soskic told a
press conference in Belgrade. “That’s why we feel no need to
draw additional funds from the IMF.”  Serbia is struggling to emerge from its first recession
since 1999, when a NATO bombing, aimed at forcing the country’s
troops to withdraw from Kosovo, destroyed most of its
infrastructure. The government relies on the IMF loan to support
its balance of payments and has drawn 1.4 billion euros of the
total loan available, Soskic said.  The National Bank of Serbia has sold around 2.5 billion
euros this year so far to curb the dinar losses, which coupled
with soaring food prices and higher regulated prices have pushed
inflation above the bank’s 4 percent to 8 percent target band.  Inflation Targeting  While global economic turmoil has sparked price and
currency volatility, Soskic said the central bank will stick
with inflation targeting as its monetary policy framework.  The bank has raised its  benchmark interest rate  five times
since August by a total of 3.5 percentage points to 11.5 percent
to combat inflation. It would also consider changes in reserve-
requirement rules to tighten liquidity if need be, Soskic said.  November’s inflation rate was 9.6 percent and the governor
said inflation was likely to peak at the end of March, at
between 10 percent and 14.5 percent, and then falling back
toward the target of 4.5 percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage
points, at the end of 2011.  Soskic urged commercial banks to focus more on clients and
renegotiate debt-repayment schedules to make sure credits are
repaid on time. “Banks should negotiate with their clients
longer maturities, interest rates and consider whether loans
should keep a foreign-exchange link,” Soskic said.  According to central bank figures, non-performing loans
declined to 17.7 percent at the end of October, from 17.9
percent in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  