-- Shell Rejected by High Court on $54 Million Award in Oklahoma Lease Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-12-13T15:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/shell-rejected-by-high-court-on-54-million-award-in-oklahoma-lease-case.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  rejected a
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc  unit’s appeal of a $54 million punitive
damage award in a decades-old Oklahoma dispute over oil and gas
profits.  Declining to consider putting tighter restrictions on
damages, the justices today left intact an Oklahoma state court
decision that said the award was within constitutional bounds.  The case stemmed from Shell’s failure from 1973 to 1985 to
pay $750,000 to the owners of rights connected to an Oklahoma
lease. The jury that considered the case added as much as 12
percent a year in interest, as allowed under an Oklahoma oil-
and-gas statute, bringing the sum to $13 million. The jury then
added the punitive damages for a total award of $67 million.  Shell’s appeal pointed to Supreme Court rulings that tie
the constitutional limit for punitive awards to the amount
awarded in so-called compensatory damages, those designed to pay
people for the losses they suffered.  In upholding the award, an Oklahoma state appeals court
classified the interest portion as compensatory damages. That
meant the punitive award was about four times the compensatory
damages -- within constitutional boundaries, the court said.  Houston-based Shell Oil said in its appeal that the
interest award was “functionally punitive” and shouldn’t have
been used to justify adding even more damages.  Payment Incentive  The group suing Shell, led by Nancy Fuller Hebble,
countered in court papers that Oklahoma set the interest rate at
12 percent  to give producers an incentive to make payments on
time and to provide compensation for the “time value of
money.”  Hebble and her fellow litigants “would have earned greater
returns had the money been distributed to them on time when the
oil and gas was produced,” they argued.  Business groups urged the court to take up the Shell Oil
Co. appeal, saying some state courts aren’t following Supreme
Court rulings imposing constitutional limits on punitive
damages.  “They have ignored the letter of the court’s rulings,
their spirit or both,” the U.S. Chamber of Commerce argued in a
court filing supporting Shell. “The result has turned punitive
damage justice into a nationwide lottery game.”  The case is Shell Oil v. Hebble, 10-349.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 