-- Shipping Loan Market Share Tumbles 94% as Yuan Beats BRICs: China Credit
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   I r e n e   S h e n
-- 2010-12-14T06:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/shipping-loan-share-sinks-94-as-yuan-strengthens-china-credit.html
Chinese banks, avoiding dollar-
denominated loans as the yuan appreciates, are scaling back
funding to shipyards and vessel owners two years after the
government told them to boost their commitment to the industry.  As credit extended to companies building, servicing and
operating boats climbed 24 percent to $32.3 billion this year,
Chinese banks’ share shrank for the first time in five years,
declining to 0.7 percent of the total from 11.2 percent in the
same period of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Bank of China Ltd . is the only Chinese company among the top 60
ship lenders after three made last year’s top 10, the data show.  China, the biggest shipbuilding nation, directed banks to
lend more to shipping lines in 2008 as financing from U.S. and
European lenders dried up amid the global credit crisis,
threatening orders for locally made vessels. China’s currency
was the only one among the so-called BRIC nations to appreciate
against the dollar last month, and Standard Chartered Plc
forecasts it may gain a further 25 percent by 2020, making loans
denominated in the dollar less attractive for Chinese lenders.  “It’s not worth borrowing dollars just to provide shipping
financing,”  Qiu Jun , deputy senior manager at Bank of
Communications Co.’s marine lending department, said at a
conference in Shanghai on Dec. 7.  Currency Forecast  China’s currency strengthened 0.2 percent to 6.657 per
dollar as of 2:20 p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. Non-deliverable forwards indicate
traders expect a 2.4 percent gain in the next 12 months. The
yuan appreciated 0.4 percent against the dollar in November
while India’s rupee slid 3.1 percent, Russia’s ruble dropped 2.1
percent and Brazil’s real fell 0.7 percent, Bloomberg data show.  When units of South Korean bulk-shipping line STX Pan Ocean
Co. obtained $92.12 million of eight-year loans in September
from Bank of China and ING Groep NV, they agreed to pay 250
basis points more than the London interbank offered rate in
interest.  Chang Jiang Shipping Group Phoenix Co., based in Wuhan,
China, paid 95 basis points more than Libor when it borrowed
$115 million for 10 years from lenders including Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China in 2008. Two years earlier a unit of
Seoul-based SK Holdings Co. paid a margin of 65 basis points, or
0.65 percentage point, when it borrowed $198 million for 14
years from banks including ICBC.  Lack of Credit  While STX Pan Ocean has the sixth-highest  domestic credit 
rating of A from Korea Investors Service Inc., SK Holdings is
ranked four steps higher at AA+ and Chang Jiang Shipping doesn’t
have a rating, Bloomberg data show.  “The lack of U.S. dollar credit is a problem and it’s not
going to change in a short time,”  Chen Qi , head of ship
financing for Shanghai Pudong Development Bank, said at the Dec.
7 conference. “We’re cooperating with overseas banks to learn
more about the industry so that when there is enough credit we
can catch up quickly.”  China’s shipyards received shipbuilding orders equivalent
to 44.4 million deadweight tons in the first 10 months of this
year, beating the 39.2 million of orders in No. 2 ranked South
Korea, according to  Clarkson Plc , the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Fleet growth could “substantially slow” in 2011 because
of order cancellations and delayed deliveries even as global
commodity seaborne trade volumes are expected to increase as
China’s iron ore imports pick up and coal shipments to India
grow, a  UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd.  research note said Dec. 13.  A widening gap between six-month interbank rates for
dollars in London and Shanghai show Chinese banks are making it
more expensive to borrow in the U.S. currency.  ‘Chinese Connection’  The  difference  peaked at 3.16 percentage points on Nov. 4,
the widest gap in at least 18 months and up from 0.72 percentage
point in January, according to ICAP Plc. The nation’s banks
extended $14.3 billion of foreign-currency  loans  in November,
central bank data show.  “We don’t borrow from Chinese banks because if there’s no
Chinese connection they’re not interested,” said  Khalid Hashim ,
managing director of  Precious Shipping Pcl , Thailand’s largest
marine transport company. “If they were offering cheaper
funding, and were willing to lend on a bilateral basis to buy
ships from anywhere in the world, then it might be something
we’d look at.”  China is Thailand’s biggest overseas market and bought
about 11 percent of Thai exports in the first 10 months of this
year, Thai government data show.  China’s $1 billion of 4.75 percent notes due October 2013
offer the lowest yield of similar-maturity dollar bonds sold by
BRIC nations at 1.6 percent, according to Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc prices. Russia’s $2 billion 3.625 percent notes due
April 2015 yield 3.5 percent, according to BNP Paribas prices.
Brazil’s $1.25 billion 10.25 percent notes due June 2013 yield
2.1 percent, according to Banif Banco de Investimento SA prices.
India hasn’t sold dollar bonds.  Credit-Default Swaps  Five-year credit-default swap contracts on the nation’s
bonds fell 3.6 basis points to 68 basis points, CMA prices show.
The contracts rose 28 percent in November after falling about 9
percent in October following a drop of 18 percent in September.  Credit-default swaps typically decline as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to debt agreements.  One-year interest-rate  swaps , or the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , rose one basis
point to 3.15 percent as of 2:21 p.m. Five-year  swaps  were
little changed 3.89 percent. That rate is up from this year’s
low of 2.68 percent on Aug. 12, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Shipper Earnings  Earnings at shipping lines were hit last year as U.S. and
European consumers reduced spending on Asian-made goods, forcing
them to idle vessels and delay deliveries of new ships as a
capacity glut reduced asset values.  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, owner of the world’s largest
container-shipping line, posted its first annual loss in at
least six decades in March after the shipping market contracted
for the first time since global containerization started in the
1970s.  “The dollar’s depreciation will have a significant impact
on Chinese banks’ financing activities,” Carl Stefan Glabe,
managing director of Campi d’Oro Shipping & Financial Advisory
LP, said in a phone interview from Singapore. Even so, their
financial strength and European financing goals mean they will
“become the banks funding the world’s future fleet,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net 
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  