-- Simon Property May Have to Go `Hostile' or Drop Quest for U.K. Mall Owner
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2010-12-13T23:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/simon-property-s-options-for-a-capital-shopping-takeover-may-be-dwindling.html
Simon Property Group Inc.  may be
running out of options in its quest to take over  Capital
Shopping Centres Group Plc  and become the largest mall owner in
the U.K.  “It’s either Simon goes hostile with an aggressive bid or
drops it completely,”  Craig Guttenplan , an analyst at
CreditSights in London, said in an interview. “This chipping-
away strategy doesn’t seem to be working.”  Capital Shopping yesterday rejected a financing plan from
Indianapolis-based  Simon  for the U.K. landlord’s $2.5 billion
(1.6 billion pound) proposed purchase of the Trafford Centre
mall in northwest England. The investment would have boosted the
biggest U.S. mall owner’s stake in its British counterpart.  Simon said last month it was considering an unspecified
cash bid for Capital Shopping and asked the London-based company
to delay a shareholder vote on the mall purchase, a request that
was turned down. The U.S. landlord said last week it would end
its quest for Capital Shopping if the company doesn’t provide
information needed to evaluate a bid.  Simon said  yesterday  it would be prepared to subscribe to a
sale of 205.5 million  Capital Shopping shares  at 400 pence each.
The proposal, which Simon said was “more attractive” to the
U.K. company’s shareholders than the current financing plan,
would include a sale of 209 million pounds of convertible bonds
by Capital Shopping.  The financing proposal by Simon, which has owned at least 3
percent of Capital Shopping since August 2008, would give Simon
a holding of 18.4 percent to 26.9 percent in the British mall
owner and a seat on its board, according to Capital Shopping.  No Unilateral Change  The plan was rejected because Capital Shopping can’t
unilaterally change a binding agreement to buy Trafford Centre,
the company said. Simon has said Capital Shopping is paying Peel
Group too much for the mall in Manchester, England.  Peel has no intention of selling the mall for cash, even if
it resulted in a higher price, the company said in a separate
statement today. Peel wants a stake in Capital Shopping to
diversify its U.K. shopping-mall holdings.  This is the second time in a year that Simon has faced
resistance from a potential takeover candidate. Earlier this
year, the company dropped a bid for U.S. competitor  General
Growth Properties Inc ., which filed for the largest-ever U.S.
real estate bankruptcy last year. A rival proposal for Chicago-
based General Growth, which exited Chapter 11 a month ago, left
the company independent.  ‘Investment Discipline’  Simon is a smart buyer that doesn’t overpay for
acquisitions, said Guttenplan of CreditSights and  Alexander Goldfarb , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP.  “We continue to believe that SPG will maintain its
investment discipline and only do a deal that is accretive
essentially from day one rather than accretive on a longer term
basis,” Goldfarb wrote in a report today from New York.  The mall owner expects to keep increasing its income even
if its effort to buy Capital Shopping fails.  David Simon , the
company’s chairman and chief executive officer, said last month,
before disclosing his interest in Capital Shopping, that Simon
may post record earnings per share next year.  The company may boost profits by increasing occupancies at
its malls and redeveloping properties, said  Keith Bokota , an
analyst at Principal Global Investors. Its parent company, Des
Moines, Iowa-based  Principal Financial Group Inc ., owned 3.8
million shares of Simon at the end of September, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Simon is likely to spend $1.5 billion on the redevelopment
of 16 properties, with work beginning on two to four projects in
2011, David Simon said last month.  “They have not stagnated,” Goldfarb said in a telephone
interview last week. “They’re growing every day.”  Simon  shares fell 2 cents to $98.93 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. They have gained 24
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 