-- Sleepless `Vigilantes' Drive Up U.S. Treasury Yields, MIT's Johnson Says
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2010-12-13T18:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/sleepless-vigilantes-drive-up-u-s-yields-mit-s-johnson-says.html
Yields on U.S. government debt could
rise as monetary policy loses its effectiveness, said  Simon Johnson , a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology’s Sloan School of Management.  Following the Federal Reserve’s decision last month to buy
$600 billion in Treasury securities, the number of investors who
believe the U.S. central bank has run out of tools to stimulate
the economy “certainly adds to the vulnerability down the road
that they are pushing up yields” on government debt, Johnson
said today in an interview on “Bloomberg On the Economy.”  “The vigilantes never sleep,” Johnson said, referring to
investors who push up bond yields when they feel fiscal or
monetary policies are running out of control. “In terms of a
broader market perception, there’s definitely concern now about
the U.S., about its fiscal position, and about the U.S.’s
relative position compared with other potential assets around
the world.”  Benchmark 10-year Treasury note yields rose last week by
the most since August 2009. Bond prices tumbled as President
 Barack Obama ’s agreement to extend Bush-era tax cuts showed the
government is ready to increase the deficit to lower the jobless
rate.  Meanwhile, Johnson said in the radio interview the overall
debt levels in the core of the euro area are fine because of
“very sensible fiscal policy” that is better planned than
policy in the U.S. That region is working to alleviate
sovereign-debt concerns after the governments of Ireland and
Greece required emergency loans.  “It will be our turn to be tested by the financial markets
once the euros have got their basic problems sorted out,”
Johnson said.  Johnson co-authored “13 Bankers: The Wall Street Takeover
and the Next Financial Meltdown” and is a Bloomberg
contributor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  