-- Slovakia Needs `Plan B' For Dropping Euro If Crisis Spreads, Sulik Says
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2010-12-13T14:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/slovakia-needs-plan-b-for-dropping-euro-if-crisis-spreads-sulik-says.html
Slovakia needs to work out a “Plan
B” for dropping the euro and switching back to the national
currency to defend itself should the European debt crisis
broaden, parliamentary Speaker  Richard Sulik  said.  The handling of the current European debt crisis is “far
from responsible,” Sulik wrote in an opinion piece in the
business newspaper  Hospodarske Noviny , published today.
Countries which have been fiscally prudent may get into trouble
should they participate in further bailouts of their indebted
peers, he said.  “It’s time for Slovakia to stop blindly trusting eurozone
leaders and prepare a Plan B,” said Sulik, who is also a
chairman of the SaS party, a member of the ruling coalition.
“Since we are too small a country to influence the actions of
the European Union, we must at least protect values that people
living in Slovakia have created.”  European Union leaders will meet in Brussels later this
week to hash out a permanent crisis-resolution mechanism to
replace the 440 billion-euro ($580 billion) stability fund
created in May in an attempt to halt the spread of the region’s
sovereign-debt woes. The current mechanism is scheduled to
expire in 2013.  Slovakia, which adopted the euro in 2009, is the only
country in the 16-member block to reject participating in a
bailout of Greece. Even as the country has participated in
the system of guarantees for euro-region countries, the
administration of Prime Minister  Iveta Radicova  has called for
allowing the bankruptcy of member states, with the private
sector sharing any potential losses.  The EU should be ready to withdraw financial support from
countries such as Greece if the conditions attached to bailouts
aren’t met and such terms should be part of any permanent aid
facility, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said today in one of its regular regional surveys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net . 