-- Somalia Fighting at Dabka Junction in Mogadishu Leaves 13 Dead, Injures 25
-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 2010-12-13T14:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/somalia-fighting-at-dabka-junction-in-mogadishu-leaves-13-dead-injures-25.html
Clashes between  Somali  government
troops and Islamic militants killed at least 13 people and
injured 25 yesterday in the capital, Mogadishu, medical
officials said.  Fighting erupted when the al-Shabaab militia attacked
positions of the army and  African Union  peacekeepers at the
Dabka junction, which links the presidential palace to the main
airport. The insurgents struck late yesterday and at midnight,
Colonel Hassan Musse, a Somali army commander, said by phone
today.  “The number of casualties varies because some were
collected by their close relatives before our arrival, but our
staff has so far picked up 13 corpses and 25 wounded,” Ali Muse
Sheikh, director of the ambulance service in Mogadishu, said by
phone.  While Musse said he had seen the bodies of three
insurgents, al-Shabaab spokesman Sheikh Abdi Aziz Abu Musa said
by phone that the rebels killed eight Ugandan soldiers and
wounded more than a dozen.  The militants have been fighting the Somali government for
the past three years. Most of southern and central Somalia has
been seized by the rebels, while President  Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed ’s government controls only parts of Mogadishu.  “I call on all parts of the national army and their
military commanders to occupy the front line of battle zones,
flying our national flag in order to uproot al-Shabaab and their
al-Qaeda allies from the country as soon as possible,” Ahmed
told reporters today at the opening of a military base in south
Mogadishu.  Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central administration
since the ouster of former dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991.
The country ranks as the world’s most corrupt nation, according
to  Transparency International , the Berlin-based anti-graft
advocacy group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hamsa Omar  in Mogadishu via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 