-- South African Coal Prices May Extend Rally Two-Year High on European Cold
-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 2010-12-13T10:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/south-african-coal-prices-unchanged-at-more-than-two-year-high.html
Prices for coal shipped from South
Africa’s Richards Bay, the continent’s biggest export facility
for the fuel, may extend gains from a two-year high as cold
weather in Europe boosts demand for the fuel.  Low temperatures in Berlin may be minus 6 degrees Celsius
(21 degrees Fahrenheit) today, according to information on the
World Meteorological Organization’s  website . Deutsche Bank AG on
Dec. 10 raised its Richards Bay price forecast by 7.3 percent to
$118 a metric ton for next year.  “Unseasonably cold temperatures in Europe are causing
elevated demand for energy,” Deutsche Bank analyst  Daniel Brebner  wrote in the report.  Export prices at Richards Bay Coal Terminal averaged
$107.11 a ton in the week to Dec. 10, according to
Petersfield, England-based researcher IHS McCloskey. That
matched the two-year high a week earlier.  November coal shipments from Richards Bay fell 8.1 percent
from a year earlier and were 30 percent lower than in October,
according to data from the Richards Bay website. Owners of the
property, located on South Africa’s northeastern coast, include
 BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s biggest mining company, and Anglo
American Plc.  Benchmark European coal derivatives advanced, heading for
this year’s highest close. Coal for delivery to Amsterdam,
Rotterdam or Antwerp with settlement next year rose $1.75, or
1.6 percent, to $113.50 a metric ton at 9:53 a.m. in London.  The data are drawn from information supplied by ICAP Plc,
GFI Group Inc., Spectron Group Ltd., Credit Suisse Group AG, IHS
McCloskey, Bloomberg and Tradition Financial Services.  McCloskey’s data are an average based on daily price
assessments and a market survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alistair Holloway  in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 