-- South Africa's Treasury Says it Increases Investment Prudential Limits
-- B y   G o r d o n   B e l l
-- 2010-12-13T16:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/south-africa-s-treasury-says-it-increases-investment-prudential-limits.html
South Africa’s Treasury said it
would allow institutional investors to invest more money abroad,
while delaying the release of a discussion document on the
financial industry until next year.  The limit on foreign assets held by retirement funds and
other investors will increase by 5 percentage points to between
25 percent and 35 percent, the Pretoria-based National Treasury
said in an e-mailed statement today. The central bank will give
further details of the limits at a later date, it said.  The change is “part of a package of measures to respond to
surging portfolio inflows,” the Treasury said. “Current
analysis shows that a number of institutions, in particular
retirement funds, representing a significant portion of the
industry investable assets, could be constrained by the current
prudential foreign-asset limit.”  Near-zero interest rates in Japan, the U.S. and the euro-
region have fueled demand for high-yielding assets in emerging
markets such as South Africa. The rand has gained 37 percent
against the dollar since the start of last year, and the
government and central bank have warned the currency’s strength
is harming some parts of the economy.  Proposed changes to financial and foreign exchange
regulations would be released before the end of the year,
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on Oct. 27. A separate
discussion document on financial regulation will now be released
in February, the Treasury said today.  The increase in investment limits should “be regarded as a
mechanism for absorbing current holdings of inward listed
instruments,” the Treasury said.  The limit was raised to 25 percent for retirement funds, to
35 percent for “collective investment schemes,” investment
managers and investment-linked long-term insurers and to 25
percent for non-investment linked long-term insurers, it said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Gordon Bell  at   gbell16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 