-- Star Alliance Woos Oneworld Member Lan to Keep Foothold in South America
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-12-13T15:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/star-alliance-woos-oneworld-member-lan-to-keep-foothold-in-south-america.html
Star Alliance said it’s seeking to
lure  Lan Airlines SA  from the Oneworld group as the Chilean
carrier’s takeover of TAM SA threatens to eliminate its only
South American member.  “We believe Star has a very good proposal,”  Jaan Albrecht , the alliance’s chief executive officer, told reporters
in Queenstown, New Zealand, today. “We feel pretty sure that we
have a leading position in Latin America.”  Lan hasn’t decided whether to stay in Oneworld with
carriers such as British Airways Plc and AMR Corp.’s American
Airlines following its takeover of Star member TAM. Star
includes United Continental Holdings Inc. and Singapore Airlines
Ltd. The combination of Lan and TAM, to be called Latam Airlines
Group, will be the largest carrier in Latin America.  Star officials are speaking to executives of LAN and Tam,
Albrecht said. Before Sao Paulo-based Tam, the alliance hadn’t
had a South American member since Varig left in 2007. Aerovias
del Continente Americano SA, known as Avianca and based in
Bogota, and Copa Holdings SA, based in Panama City, are due to
join the  group  in 2012.  Lan representatives weren’t available to comment, a public
relations official said today by telephone from Santiago.  Aerolineas Argentinas SA, South America’s fifth-biggest
airline, last month said it will join the SkyTeam alliance led
by  Delta Air Lines Inc.  and Air France-KLM Group.  Tam is South America’s biggest carrier by passenger
numbers, moving 29 million travelers in 2009, according to
International Air Transport Association data. Gol Linhas Aereas
Inteligentes SA, also based in Brazil, is second with almost
28 million, followed by Lan with 15 million and Avianca with
9 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Queenstown at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  