-- Stocks Rally With Bernanke Bond Purchases as QE Buoys S&P 500
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-12-13T22:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/stocks-rally-with-bernanke-bond-buying-in-data-showing-qe-buoying-s-p-500.html
Keith Hembre  dumped bonds and bought
stocks when the Federal Reserve announced its plan Nov. 3 to buy
$600 billion of Treasuries. The rationale: to benefit from
anticipated market gains on days of Fed purchases.  The chief economist and investment strategist at FAF
Advisors Inc. may be on to something. Most of the 47 percent
 stock rally  during the past two years came on days when the Fed
pumped money into markets through bond buying, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Since the $1.7 trillion first round of
quantitative easing began on Dec. 5, 2008, the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  of stocks has climbed a combined 267 points on the 212
days when the Fed was adding stimulus, compared with 128 points
on the 297 days when it wasn’t.  “We took action,” said Hembre, who helps manage more than
$86 billion at the unit of U.S. Bancorp in Minneapolis. “The
primary benefit of quantitative easing ends up supporting the
price of riskier assets, not necessarily that of Treasuries.”  The data may bolster Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
assertion that his asset purchases are inducing investors to buy
higher-yielding securities, even though the central bank’s
dollars don’t go directly into the stock market. Fed officials
are counting on the  second round of quantitative easing  to
jumpstart an economy that’s plagued by too-low inflation and an
 unemployment rate  near 10 percent.  ‘Conspiracy Theory’  Some investors see a “conspiracy theory” that the central
bank causes a stock rally on days of its purchases, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch strategists led by  Jeffrey Rosenberg  said
in a  Nov. 2 report . While the report showed stocks rose on 15 of
the 24 days the New York Fed bought Treasuries from Aug. 17
through the beginning of last month, Rosenberg said he’s
skeptical of a direct relationship because of positive economic
indicators on some days.  The data compiled by Bloomberg show the S&P 500 gained an
average of 0.16 percent on buying days during the past two
years, four times the 0.04 percent on non-purchase days.  Bernanke has never publicly drawn a connection between the
stimulus and the stock market’s daily fluctuations. The Fed
chief, who convenes policy makers tomorrow in Washington for
their last meeting of 2010, discussed the correlation only in
general terms last month. The Fed’s program “looks to be
effective” because share prices rose and long-term interest
rates fell when investors began to anticipate a second round of
purchases, Bernanke said in a Nov. 4 Washington Post opinion
piece.  ‘Assume More Risk’  “I’ve yet to notice any black helicopters flying outside
the New York Stock Exchange, but one of the reasons you have
quantitative easing, of course, is to compel investors to assume
more risk,” said  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s
Capital Markets Group in New York. “This increases the supply
of financial capital to the private sector, with the possible
consequence of boosting the economy.”  Stock-market gains help fuel growth through the so-called
wealth effect, or the tendency of consumers to spend more when
their assets are appreciating in value, Lonski said.  Nine of the S&P 500’s 10 main industry groups, led by
shares of  financial companies , rose more on days when the Fed
opened its checkbook for, or announced results of, what it calls
Permanent Open Market Operations. The group of 81 banks,
insurers and investment firms, including New York-based  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  and  Wells Fargo & Co.  of San Francisco, climbed an
average 0.32 percent, compared with a 0.04 percent drop on non-
POMO days.  ‘Incredibly Important’  FX Concepts LLC, the world’s largest currency hedge fund,
buys higher-yielding assets such as stocks and the Australian
dollar when the Fed is purchasing bonds, said  John R. Taylor ,
who manages about $8 billion as chairman of the New York-based
firm. The days have become “incredibly important for the
market,” Taylor said.  David Skidmore , spokesman for the Fed Board of Governors in
Washington, and  Deborah Kilroe , spokeswoman for the New York
Fed, which carries out the purchases, both declined to comment.  The Fed’s purchase program, known as quantitative easing,
works by increasing the quantity of  bank reserves  in the system.
Policy makers direct the markets desk at the New York Fed to buy
government securities from primary dealers, or brokers who are
authorized to trade directly with the central bank, adding funds
to the dealers’ accounts and creating reserves at their clearing
banks. Financial firms were parking $979 billion of reserves at
the Fed in excess of requirements as of Dec. 1, earning 0.25
percent interest.  ‘Portfolio Balance Channel’  The central bank’s buying helps the economy through the
“portfolio balance channel,” as investors replace Treasury
securities with other types of assets, Bernanke said in an Aug.
27 speech in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  Not all investors subscribe to the idea that the Fed’s bond
purchases inflate stocks on a given day. Historical data are
limited, and the rally since July is “closely correlated” with
other news, such as economic and earnings reports, said  James Paulsen , chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management
in Minneapolis, a unit of Wells Fargo.  “I’ve had a problem with people focusing so much on what
the Fed’s doing, as though that’s dictating everything that’s
happening,” said Paulsen, who helps manage more than $300
billion.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Rosenberg, who found shares
outperformed on days when the Fed was buying, also cites
economic data for the increases. “Correlation doesn’t equal
causality,” said Rosenberg, head of global credit strategy in
New York.  Rising Retail Sales  Some signs point to a U.S. recovery gaining steam, even
though unemployment  has remained  at 9.4 percent or higher since
May 2009. Sales at U.S. retailers jumped in November by the most
in eight months, manufacturing expanded for a 16th consecutive
month and consumer confidence increased in December to a six-
month high.  The S&P 500 index rose last week an average 0.17 percent on
the four days with Fed purchases; it gained 0.6 percent on Dec.
10 with no central bank buying to close at its highest level
since September 2008. Today stocks erased gains in the final
hour of trading, leaving the index up 0.06 point at 1,240.46 at
4 p.m. in New York.  FAF Advisors’ Hembre, 43, a former Minneapolis Fed
researcher, disagrees with the naysayers. “You see substantial
outperformance of risky assets,” he said. The Fed’s money,
“while sort of directly being put into the Treasury market,
gets reallocated to the folks putting risk on.”  Rising Yield  Treasury prices, by contrast, fell on average during the
past two years when the Fed bought securities. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note climbed an average 0.6 basis point, based
on Bloomberg generic yields. A basis point is equal to 0.01
percentage point.  That may be explained by investors adding more risk and
anticipating faster growth, Hembre said. Equities are likely to
benefit in the next several months as the Fed adheres to its
plan to buy Treasuries through June, he said.  The Fed might even expand bond purchases beyond $600
billion, Bernanke said in an interview broadcast Dec. 5 on CBS
Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program.  The central bank’s actions have been criticized by Kansas
City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  and Ohio Republican  John Boehner , the presumptive U.S. House speaker, for their potential
to stoke inflation or fuel asset-price bubbles.  ‘Propping Up Stocks’  The Fed is “basically propping up stocks,” said  Nicolas Lenoir , chief market strategist for ICAP Plc’s ICAP Futures LLC
in Jersey City, New Jersey. “You should have good economic
stats driving stocks up. The transmission of the wealth you
create from stocks into real economic activity doesn’t work.”  This isn’t the first time traders have hypothesized about
the Fed’s impact on share prices. Some investors in 1999
attributed a stock rally to backup liquidity programs policy
makers started because of concerns about computer-software
problems when the year 2000 began, said  Scott Pardee , who worked
at the New York Fed from 1962 to 1981. The S&P 500 returned 15
percent in the last three months of 1999, the majority of its  20
percent gain  that year.  “The Fed has no intention of manipulating the market,”
said Pardee, 74, who was senior vice president and manager for
foreign operations of the Federal Open Market Committee from
1979 to 1981 and now teaches monetary economics at Middlebury
College in Vermont.  Confrontational Traders  He had a brush with the issue personally. Some bond traders
confronted Pardee in the early 1980s at a party on a wharf by
the East River in Manhattan after the Fed released bigger-than-
expected  monetary aggregate  numbers one week, indicating
 interest rates  were likely to rise, he said.  The traders “started arguing about why the Fed was
manipulating the money supply so much,” Pardee said. “I was
afraid they were going to throw me in the river.”  The central bank now is causing investors to hunt for yield
by boosting demand for low-risk assets such as Treasuries, said
 Jeffrey Saut , chief investment strategist at Raymond James &
Associates in St. Petersburg, Florida.  “If the ATM is spitting out $20s, you are more likely to
take the money to the track than the mattress,” Saut said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net 
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  