-- Sudan's January Referendum Will Take Place as Scheduled, U.S. Envoy Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-12-13T20:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/sudan-s-january-referendum-will-take-place-as-scheduled-u-s-envoy-says.html
A referendum to determine Sudan’s
political future will take place in January as scheduled, the
U.S. envoy to the country,  Scott Gration , said today.  Southern Sudan is set to vote Jan. 9 on whether to remain
united with Northern Sudan or form an independent country. The
vote is the centerpiece of a 2005 peace deal that ended a 21-
year civil war between the Muslim north and Christian and
animist south.  “There should be no reason preventing the referendum from
happening on time,” Gration said in a call with reporters after
a three-day visit to Sudan. He said, though, that potential
court challenges could delay the referendum.  Gration also announced the appointment of veteran diplomat
 Dane Smith , a former ambassador to Senegal and Guinea, to focus
on issues surrounding Darfur.  Gration said that in order to make sure the referendum took
place on time, the voter registration period was shortened from
the three months required under law to one month in some areas.  “It’s my belief the process has been good, has been
transparent,” Gration said. Any challenge would likely come
from individuals, not the government of Sudan, he said.  Gration said he remains concerned about the possibility of
violence surrounding the vote, and that he had stressed to all
parties the importance of protecting the citizenry should
clashes erupt.  Protecting Citizens  “We’ve made very clear that the parties have to play a
major role in protecting their citizens,” Gration said.
“Frankly, we’re just going to have to keep a real strong eye
out on this.”  The majority of Southern Sudanese favor independence,
according to an Oct. 20 study by the Washington-based National
Democratic Institute.  Sudan’s army has been  fighting rebels in Darfur  since 2003,
when insurgents took up arms, accusing the government of
neglecting the region. The conflict has led to the death of as
many as 300,000 people, mainly due to illness and starvation,
and forced about 2.7 million to flee their homes, according to
United Nations estimates. The Sudanese government has put the
death toll at about 10,000.  The  International Criminal Court  has issued arrest warrants
for Sudanese President  Umar al-Bashir , accusing him of
responsibility for genocide and war crimes in Darfur. He denies
the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  