-- U.K. Home Sellers’ Prices May Drop 5% in 2011, Rightmove Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/u-k-home-sellers-prices-may-drop-5-in-2011-rightmove-says.html
U.K. home sellers cut asking prices
for a second month in December to the lowest level in almost a
year and may reduce them by a further 5 percent in 2011,  Rightmove Plc  said.  Average asking prices in England and  Wales  fell 3 percent
to 222,410 pounds ($351,000) from November, when they dropped
3.2 percent, the operator of Britain’s biggest property website
said in a report published in  London  today. That’s the biggest
consecutive monthly drop since Rightmove’s index began in 2002.  The price drop adds to evidence from mortgage lenders of
weakness in the housing market at a time when the economy is
bracing for public-spending cuts that will inflict 330,000 job
losses. At best, asking prices will stay unchanged next year,
and they may drop by as much as 5 percent if the number of
repossessions rises “substantially,” Rightmove said.  “Sellers are going to have to price more competitively in
2011,”  Miles Shipside , commercial director of Rightmove, said
in the report. “A continuing drift of a few percent similar to
what we have seen in the latter part of 2010 is likely in 2011
until the economic recovery gathers real pace.”  High unemployment, a lack of mortgage finance, a possible
increase in the  Bank of England ’s interest rate and forced sales
will outweigh positive factors such as pent-up demand and a
shortage of properties in popular areas next year, Rightmove
said. It said price declines and uncertainty on the outlook may
push lenders to pursue more repossessions.  National Divide  Price drops are likely to be more concentrated in the north
of  England , with London proving to be the most resilient region,
Rightmove said. Sellers in the U.K. capital will raise average
asking prices by between 3 percent and 5 percent next year, the
company said in a separate report.  All 10 regions in England and Wales tracked by Rightmove
showed falling asking prices in December, led by a 5 percent
drop in the West Midlands. This month’s national average asking
price is the lowest since January.  Values in London dropped 2.7 percent as all but two of the
32 districts tracked by Rightmove showed losses, led by Tower
Hamlets and Newham. The only two neighbourhoods to post gains
were Camden, and Hammersmith and Fulham, the company said.  Data are painting a mixed picture about the health of the
country’s property market. While  Lloyds Banking Group Plc ’s
Halifax unit said last week that home values dipped 0.1 percent
in November, Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL Property Services Plc
said prices rose to a two-year high. U.K. lenders reduced the
cost of two-year fixed-rate mortgages to a record low last
month, the Bank of England said on Dec. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  