-- Senate to Pass $858 Billion Tax-Cut Measure Today; House Action to Follow
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   P e t e r   C o h n
-- 2010-12-15T17:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/u-s-senate-advances-858-billion-extension-for-bush-era-income-tax-cuts.html
The U.S. Senate is poised to pass
President  Barack Obama ’s $858 billion proposal to extend Bush-
era tax cuts for all income levels, cut payroll taxes and extend
expanded jobless benefits.  The chamber took up the measure today and will consider
three amendments before final passage. The amendments would
require a two-thirds supermajority for adoption.  Senate passage will send the tax bill to the House, where
Democrats -- who threatened last week not to bring it to the
floor -- yesterday discussed a plan to let Democrats vote on an
alternative to estate-tax provisions many of them oppose.  Obama today urged lawmakers “to pass these tax cuts as
swiftly as possible.” He said at the White House that the tax-
cut plan, “while not perfect, will help grow our economy and
create jobs in the private sector,” adding that lawmakers
“can’t afford to let it fall victim to either delay or
defeat.”  The measure would extend Bush-era tax cuts for two years
for all income levels, a Republican demand to which Obama
acceded. Most House Democrats want to limit the tax cuts to the
first $250,000 of family income. The plan would continue
expanded benefits for the long-term jobless through 2011.  House Vote  House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland Democrat,
said last night that the bill would come to the House floor
after Senate passage. Rules Committee Chairwoman  Louise Slaughter  of New York said the measure may be ready for the
House floor later today.  Slaughter said there will “definitely” be a House vote on
raising the estate-tax rate. If that passes, she said, it would
change the bill and force another Senate vote.  “I would bet my house on it,” Slaughter said of the
likelihood of the House taking a separate estate-tax vote.  House Democrats discussed the possibility of amending the
bill to make permanent the 2009 estate tax rate of 45 percent
with a tax-free exemption for estates of up to $3.5 million,
said Representative  Ron Kind , a Wisconsin Democrat. That measure
was passed by the House in 2009 and died in the Senate.  Representative  Bill Pascrell , a New Jersey Democrat who is
leaning against voting for the tax-cut bill, said he would back
an estate-tax amendment though it would likely be rejected. He
said opposing the bill will put many Democrats in a difficult
spot politically because the measure contains an extension of
expanded unemployment benefits and tax cuts for middle-income
Americans that Democrats back.  ‘Come Out Worse’  “What if we have nothing?” Pascrell said. Once the
Republicans gain control of the House in January, he said, “we
are going to come out worse. You are going to see a lot of folks
vote for it with political considerations in hand.” Republicans
had a net gain of 63 House seats in November’s elections.  An 83-15 Senate vote Dec. 13 to advance the measure
reflects “the urgency that members from all spectrums feel
about the middle-income tax cut and the unemployment
insurance,” Hoyer told reporters yesterday in Washington.  Slaughter said yesterday that any vote on an alternative to
the bill’s estate-tax provision likely would come in the form of
a rule rather than an amendment. Such rules typically amount to
a symbolic vote that wouldn’t change the substance of the bill.  The tax plan will pass the Senate by a “very substantial
margin,” Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky
told reporters. “This agreement is not subject to being
reopened” for changes, he said. “We have an understanding.”  Capital Investments  The legislation would extend all expiring income-tax
reductions through 2012, cut payroll taxes by 2 percentage
points during 2011 and extend expanded unemployment benefits
through 2011. It would let companies write off 100 percent of
their capital investments through 2011 and would revive dozens
of business tax breaks that expired in 2009.  The estate-tax provision would set a top tax rate of 35
percent, to be applied after an individual exemption of $5
million, through 2012.  There was no estate tax this year, although it was replaced
by a capital-gains tax on sales of some inherited assets.
Without any change in law, the exemption will be $1 million on
Jan. 1 and the top rate will be 55 percent.  House Democratic leaders weren’t involved in final
negotiations that led to the agreement Obama announced Dec. 6.  Hoyer predicted that more than the 53 Democratic members of
the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Caucus would vote in favor of
the Senate-passed measure once it comes to the House.  Business groups including the National Retail Federation,
National Association of Manufacturers and the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce have urged passage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Richard Rubin  in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cohn  in Washington at 
 pcohn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  