-- `Gray Market' Ruling Favoring Swatch Affirmed as Supreme Court Splits 4-4
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-12-13T18:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/u-s-supreme-court-divides-evenly-in-costco-gray-market-case.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  divided
evenly in a clash over the multibillion-dollar “gray market,”
leaving intact a ruling that lets manufacturers use copyright
laws to keep some products out of U.S. discount stores.  The 4-4 high court split, which doesn’t set a nationwide
precedent, upholds a federal appeals court decision favoring
 Swatch Group AG’s  Omega unit in a dispute with  Costco Wholesale
Corp.  over discounted Seamaster watches.  Retailers had sought to overturn the appeals court ruling
because it exposes them to lawsuits if they try to exploit
worldwide price differences on foreign-made products by
importing them through unauthorized channels. In Costco’s case,
the largest U.S. warehouse club acquired the Swiss-made watches
at a discount and then sold them at $1,200, or $700 below
Omega’s suggested retail price.  Today’s high court action means that “if someone is
selling goods 30 percent cheaper in some other country, any
retailer who wants to pass that cost benefit on to the consumer
would likely be denied,” said John Mitchell, a Washington
lawyer who filed a brief backing Costco on behalf of trade
groups that represent video-game, home-video and music
retailers.  Whether that proves to be a permanent result may depend on
Justice  Elena Kagan , who stands to be the deciding vote should
the justices revisit the issue in a later case.  Kagan Abstains  Kagan didn’t take part in today’s high court action because
she had participated in the case as President  Barack Obama ’s
solicitor general. In that capacity, she filed a brief urging
the court not to hear Costco’s appeal, arguing that the San
Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals had reached
the right conclusion.  Copyright owners have reason to be “guardedly optimistic
that if and when this issue did make it back to the Supreme
Court, you’d win it,” said Charles Sims, a New York lawyer who
filed a brief supporting Omega on behalf of the publishing
industry.  The high court, as is its practice in evenly divided
rulings, didn’t reveal which justices voted on which side of the
issue.  The gray market, also known as parallel sales, costs
manufacturers as much as $63 billion in sales a year, according
to a Deloitte LLP analysis conducted for Bloomberg last year. A
manufacturer with $10 billion in sales can lose as much as $450
million, Deloitte found.  First-Sale Doctrine  The case turned on the scope of the first-sale doctrine,
which says a copyright holder can profit only from the original
sale of a product. In 1998, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled
against copyright holders by saying the doctrine applies to
U.S.-made products sold overseas. The court said copyright
holders can’t block those goods from being brought back into the
U.S. through unauthorized channels.  The latest question was whether that same reasoning applies
to goods manufactured abroad, including Omega’s Seamaster
watches, which carry a copyrighted logo on the back. The 9th
Circuit sided with Omega on the issue, ruling that the first-
sale doctrine doesn’t apply to foreign-made goods.  The case now returns to a federal trial court, where Costco
will have a chance to mount additional arguments, including its
contention that Omega engaged in so-called copyright misuse.  Roy Englert , who argued the case at the Supreme Court for
Costco, and Aaron Panner, who argued for Omega, declined to make
any immediate comment.  Richard Galanti , Costco’s chief financial
officer, didn’t immediately return a phone call and e-mail
seeking comment.  Costco had support in the case from  EBay Inc. ,  Google Inc. ,
 Amazon.com Inc. ,  GameStop Corp. ,  Target Corp. ,  Intel Corp. , a
consumer-advocacy group and six library associations. Omega had
backing from the film and music industries and office equipment
makers including  Seiko Epson Corp.   The case is Costco v. Omega, 08-1423.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 