-- Obama's Health-Care Law Ruled Unconstitutional Over Insurance Requirement
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-12-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/u-s-health-care-law-requirement-thrown-out-by-judge.html
The Obama administration’s health-
care overhaul unconstitutionally requires Americans to maintain
a minimum level of health insurance, a federal judge ruled,
striking down the linchpin of the plan.  U.S. District Judge  Henry Hudson  in Richmond, Virginia,
said yesterday that the mandate on individuals in President
 Barack Obama ’s health-care legislation goes beyond Congress’s
powers to regulate interstate commerce. Hudson severed the issue
of the mandate, which is set to become effective in 2014, and
didn’t address other provisions such as expanding Medicaid.  “At its core, this dispute is not simply about regulating
the business of insurance -- or crafting a scheme of universal
health insurance coverage -- it’s about an individual’s right to
choose to participate,” wrote Hudson, who was appointed by
President  George W. Bush  in 2002.  The ruling is the government’s first loss in a series of
challenges to the law mounted in federal courts in Virginia,
Michigan and Florida, where 20 states have joined an effort to
have the statute thrown out. Constitutional scholars said unless
Congress changes the law, its fate on appeal will probably be
determined by the U.S. Supreme Court.  Virginia Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli , who brought the
suit, said his office has spoken with lawyers from the Justice
Department about asking the U.S. Supreme Court to take the case
without a review by the federal appeals court in Richmond.  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department spokeswoman, said she had no
comment on Cuccinelli’s statement.  Appeal Likely  A senior Obama administration official said that an appeal
of Hudson’s ruling was likely and also expressed confidence that
the legislation would be upheld.  “This is only round one,” Cuccinelli said, during a news
conference at his office in Richmond. “This lawsuit is not
about health-care, it’s about liberty.”  In his 42-page opinion, Hudson said the “unchecked
expansion” of congressional power represented by the insurance
requirement “would invite unbridled exercise of federal police
powers.” No Supreme Court decision has authorized Congress to
“compel an individual to involuntarily enter the stream of
commerce by purchasing a commodity in the private market,” he
wrote.  To overcome that conclusion, the Obama administration
ultimately may have to persuade at least one of the five
Republican-appointed justices on a Supreme Court that in recent
years has limited Congress’s power to regulate interstate
commerce.  Commerce Clause Cases  The court hasn’t directly considered a challenge to
Congress’ power under the Constitution’s commerce clause since
 John Roberts  became chief justice in 2005.  “There’s a lot of activity focused now on alternatives to
the mandate,” said  Dan Mendelson , chief executive officer of
Avalere Health, a Washington-based consulting firm.  Hudson, who didn’t order the government to stop work on
implementing the law during an appeal, limited his ruling to the
mandatory insurance provision.  Peter Urbanowicz , a managing director at Alvarez & Marsal
Healthcare Industry Group in Washington, said he read the
decision to leave in place all of the law’s obligations on
insurers for expanded coverage. If Hudson’s decision is upheld,
insurance companies would be required to provide new benefits
without expanding the pool of insureds, he said in an e-mail.  That would cause “skyrocketing costs” for insurers, said
 Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for the Washington lobby group,
America’s Health Insurance Plans.  Health-Insurance Stocks  Health plans rose as much as 2.7 percent after the ruling
was announced, and then fell back. The Standard & Poor’s Managed
Health Index of six insurers climbed 0.3 percent in New York
trading, led by a 1 percent increase for Aetna Inc. of Hartford,
Connecticut. UnitedHealth Group Inc. of Minnetonka, Minnesota,
the largest medical plan by sales, rose 0.6 percent.  White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said at a press briefing
yesterday said that the administration still believes the
legislation is constitutional.  “One hundred and fifteen miles away, a different judge in
a different district rendered a different decision,” Gibbs
said, referring to a Nov. 30 ruling by U.S. District Judge
 Norman Moon , in Lynchburg, Virginia, named by President  Bill Clinton . That decision upheld the act in a lawsuit brought by
the evangelical Liberty University and five individuals. U.S.
District Judge  George Caram Steeh  in Michigan, another Clinton
appointee, also sided with the government.  ‘Will Be Upheld’  “Our belief is that when all the legal wrangling is done,
this is something that will be upheld,” Gibbs said.  Justice Department lawyers in court papers called the
mandatory insurance measure the cornerstone of the overhaul as
it pushes younger and healthier people into the insurance pool.
Through the individual mandate and expansions of Medicaid and
employer-based coverage, the law is estimated to provide 32
million more people with coverage by 2019, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  The law bars insurers from denying coverage to people who
are sick or imposing lifetime limits on costs. Without payments
generated from the required policies, the health-insurance
market would face extinction, the government argued. The mandate
falls under Congress’s power to regulate interstate commerce as
$43 billion in unpaid medical bills are absorbed by the market
each year, U.S. lawyers said.  ‘Simply Wait’  “If people aren’t compelled to buy insurance and the
insurance carriers are compelled to offer it, then many will
simply wait until they are sick,” said  John Sullivan , an
analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. in Boston. “You can’t just pull
this part out of it.”  Virginia’s suit claimed Congress has only the power to tax,
not to force participation in a market. Its case defended the
Virginia Health Care Freedom Act, a state law barring compulsory
purchase of health insurance by its citizens.  Florida, joined by 19 other states, filed a separate
lawsuit challenging the law’s constitutionality and arguing it
puts too big a burden on its budget by expanding state-run
Medicaid programs. U.S. District Judge  Roger Vinson  in
Pensacola, Florida, is slated to hear arguments Dec. 16 on
motions by each side to decide the case in their favor.  In the Florida case, the states are backed by 63 members of
the U.S. House of Representatives, mostly Republicans, in a
court brief. Incoming House of Representatives Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, and 32 Republican U.S. senators
separately submitted papers arguing the legislation represents
an unconstitutional expansion of congressional legislative
powers.  Expansion of Medicaid  Florida’s Attorney General  Bill McCollum  said he is hopeful
Vinson will strike down the individual mandate and halt the
expansion of Medicaid.  “The implementation of this law could add more than 1.9
million Floridians to the Medicaid program, a tremendous
financial burden on our state at a time when our budget has no
room for extra expenses,” he said in a statement.  A group of about 40 economics scholars, including Nobel
laureates  Eric Maskin ,  George Akerlof  and  Kenneth Arrow , filed
their own brief, arguing in favor of the legislative package.  The Virginia and Florida cases are the most likely to reach
the Supreme Court, according to health-care and constitutional
lawyers.  Both have been “well briefed and well drafted,”
 Urbanowicz  said.  The case is Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius,
10-cv-00188, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Richmond).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Schoenberg  in Richmond, Virginia, at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 