-- Mugabe Says Zimbabwe Economy to Achieve `Double-Digit' Growth in 2011-2015
-- B y   N e l s o n   B a n y a
-- 2010-12-13T14:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/mugabe-says-zimbabwe-economy-to-achieve-double-digit-growth-in-2011-2015.html
Zimbabwe’s economy will expand by
about 8 percent this year and growth may accelerate to more than
10 percent for the next five years, President  Robert Mugabe 
said.  The government’s economic program that started last year
reversed a decade of contraction and the recovery is continuing,
Mugabe said in a speech at an opening ceremony for an investment
promotion agency today in the capital, Harare.  “At this rate, we should achieve double-digit growth
between 2011 and 2015,” he said.  The southern African nation scrapped its dollar in 2009 and
adopted the use of multiple currencies, resulting in inflation
plummeting from 500 billion percent and for shops to start
restocking shelves with products. Annual inflation was 3.6
percent in October, according to the state statistics agency.  While a new unity government between Mugabe’s Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front party and Prime Minister
 Morgan Tsvangirai’s  Movement for Democratic Change helped end
the recession, foreign donors haven’t committed money and
investors have been slow to return. The European Union and the
U.S. have maintained asset freezes and travel bans against
Mugabe and some of his party’s officials, demanding more proof
of their commitment to democracy and human rights.  More reforms are needed to attract investment and keep the
recovery going, Tsvangirai said today. Differing opinions within
the government undermined investor confidence, he said.  The expanded Zimbabwe Investment Authority will now link
the investment promotion, immigration, tax, exchange control and
company registration departments to cut the period it takes to
register a business from about three months to five days, the
government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nelson Banya in Harare via Johannesburg at 
 ngbanya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  