-- Lukoil Yield Cut 50% as Stock Rally Boosts Convertible Debt: Russia Credit
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-12-14T17:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/lukoil-yield-cut-50-as-stock-rally-boosts-convertible-debt-russia-credit.html
Russia’s biggest quarterly  stock
rally  this year is drawing bondholders to the equity market,
increasing the cost savings for companies selling debt
convertible into shares.  OAO Lukoil  raised $1.5 billion in Russia’s biggest sale of
convertible bonds last week. The 2015 notes rose, cutting the
yield to 2.037 percent on Dec. 10 compared with 4.767 percent on
its fixed-rate notes due in 2014, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The 273 basis-point gap compares with a discount of 150 on
convertible bonds sold in February by  OAO TMK , Russia’s biggest
pipemaker.  Russia’s winning bid to host the 2018 World Cup and
speculation it may join the World Trade Organization helped lift
the benchmark Micex  Index  16 percent this quarter, beating a 5.1
percent advance for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index . Holders of
Lukoil’s convertible bonds can swap the securities for shares
should the stock price in London climb 30 percent before they
mature, according to the offering statement.  “The recent rally in equities will trigger interest from
other companies” to sell convertible bonds, said  Gregory Klumov , chief investment officer at Moscow-based Everest Asset
Management, which oversees about $300 million and bought
Lukoil’s convertible bonds.  London-listed  American depositary receipts from Lukoil,
Russia’s second-largest oil producer, added 3.3 percent this
month to $57.15 as of yesterday’s close. The ADRs would need to
reach $73.7087 to trigger the exchange, according to the
statement.  Global Sales  The rally in emerging-market equities is spurring sales of
convertible debt worldwide. The amount of the securities sold in
China may surge to 100 billion yuan ($15 billion) this year from
5.4 billion yuan in 2009, according to Citic Securities Co.,
China’s largest brokerage. The  S&P China Convertible Bond Index 
gained 3.3 percent this month compared with a 0.3 percent
advance for  corporate  and  government  notes. The  Shanghai
Composite Index  of shares advanced 3.8 percent in the period.  Companies in India have sold at least $1.6 billion of
foreign-currency equity-linked notes this year, compared with
$3.9 billion in 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Companies with the securities to be able to issue
convertible bonds include  OAO Acron , Russia’s third-largest
nitrogen-fertilizer maker, and  OAO Concern Kalina , a cosmetics
producer based in Yekaterinburg, Klumov said.  Ilya Popov, a spokesman for Veliky Novgorod-based Acron,
didn’t return calls to his office. A spokesperson for Kalina,
who declined to be identified, also didn’t provide any comment.  ‘Favorable’ Terms  Lukoil, Russia’s second-largest oil producer, last issued
convertible bonds in 2002 when it sold $350 million in 3.5
percent notes due in November 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The sale was a “good opportunity to increase the cash
position of the company,”  Andrei Gaidamaka , director of
strategic development at Lukoil, said in a Dec. 10 telephone
interview. The terms were “favorable,” he said.  The ruble gained 0.5 percent to 30.6700 per dollar in
Moscow trading. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide
a guide to expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge against currency
movements, showed the ruble at 31.0025 in three months.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 was little
changed at 4.958 percent. The price of the country’s ruble notes
due in August 2016 rose, pushing the yield to 7.70 percent.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps declined 1 basis point to
143 today, down from this year’s peak of 217, according to data
provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost 14 basis points more than contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 9 basis points to 196,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes. The difference
compares with 125 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 165 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 31 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  ‘Uncapped Upside’  Bondholders exercising conversion rights will receive
either ADRs, cash or a combination of both, according to the
Lukoil statement. If converted, the whole issue would be
equivalent to about 2.4 percent of Lukoil’s market value,  Pavel Sorokin , an oil analyst at Alfa Bank in Moscow, wrote in a Dec.
9 note.  Lukoil’s is the first sale to raise more than $50 million
since Moscow-based TMK issued $412 million of convertible bonds
in February. London-listed Petropavlovsk Plc, Russia’s third-
largest gold producer, placed a $330 million issue in January as
Russian companies sought alternative ways to refinance their
debt after global financial crisis cut access to funding.  Evraz Group SA , Russia’s second-largest steelmaker, based
in Luxembourg, raised $900 million from convertible bonds and
shares in July 2009.  “The bond raised $1.5 billion in one day, that’s pretty
impressive,” said  Jason Manolopoulos , managing director at
Dromeus Capital Management in Athens, who helps manage $100
million of emerging-market debt and bought the Lukoil and Evraz
bonds. The debt offers “great downside protection” and
“uncapped upside,” he said in e-mailed comments.  -- With assistance from  Stephen Bierman  in Moscow. Editors: Alex
Nicholson,  Rodney Jefferson   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  