-- UniCredit's Planned Pioneer Sale May Hit Snag After Madoff Trustee Lawsuit
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2010-12-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/unicredit-pioneer-sale-faces-hurdle-after-20-billion-madoff-trustee-suit.html
UniCredit SpA ’s planned sale of its
Pioneer Global Asset Management SpA unit may hit a snag after a
$19.6 billion lawsuit by the trustee liquidating  Bernard L. Madoff ’s investment firm.  Trustee  Irving Picard  on Dec. 10 sued Pioneer, UniCredit
and its former chief executive officer,  Alessandro Profumo , Bank
Austria, as well as Bank Medici AG and its founder, Sonja Kohn.
Picard is seeking $19.6 billion from them to compensate victims
of Madoff’s fraud, an amount which could triple under the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.  UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, is reviewing options for
Pioneer including the sale to a strategic partner and has
received some proposals, CEO  Federico Ghizzoni  said last month.
Pioneer oversees about 185 billion euros ($245 billion) and
earned 247 million euros before taxes in the first nine months.  The lawsuit “increases uncertainty about profitability and
capital” of all the companies involved, said  Paul Vrouwes , who
helps oversee about 362 billion euros, including UniCredit
shares, at ING Investment Management in The Hague. The claim may
impact on the timing and price of a Pioneer sale, he said.  UniCredit said in an e-mailed statement on behalf of
itself, Bank Austria and Pioneer, that they will fight the 
lawsuit. Attorneys are reviewing the matter and will “manage 
this through the normal course legal process,” the bank said in
the statement.  Ponzi Mastermind  UniCredit has concluded the first round of meetings with
interested partners and will next evaluate offers received to
draw up a shortlist of potential candidates,  Paola Di Raimondo ,
a spokeswoman, said by e-mail. There is no fixed timeline
regarding this plan, she said.  Pioneer and UniCredit were involved with Madoff, who
masterminded the biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history, since at
least 2000, Picard said in the complaint last week.  “Pioneer caused proceeds of the illegal scheme to be both
sent to and from accounts,” according to the complaint, filed
in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York.  “I wouldn’t read the claim at face value, but I also
wouldn’t buy an asset with few hundred million of earnings and a
potential off balance-sheet liability” of this size, said  Ronny Rehn , a London-based analyst at Keefe, Bruyette and Woods Ltd.  UniCredit in January 2009 said clients had invested $1.1
billion in funds run by Madoff through Pioneer Alternative
Investments.  The exposure was through the Primeo Select and Primeo
Executive funds, the company said at the time. Primeo Select
invested all its money in the Bank Medici-run Herald USA Fund,
while Primeo Executive had about half its assets in Herald USA
and half in the Alpha Prime fund.  Bank Medici, 25 percent owned by UniCredit, gave $9.1
billion of investor money to Madoff’s company, Picard said in
the filing. Profumo enjoyed a close working relationship with
 Kohn , according to Picard’s claim. An official for Profumo
called the allegations “completely unfounded” and said they
“will be defended vigorously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  