-- Uranium Spot Market Trading Volume Hits Record on Asian Demand
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2010-12-13T02:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/uranium-spot-market-trading-volume-hits-record-on-asian-demand.html
The volume of uranium sold in the
spot market, used by utilities to have material delivered within
a year and by investors to speculate on the price of the fuel,
hit a record this year on Asian demand.  Some 41.6 million pounds of uranium-oxide concentrate was
sold in the market for the week ending Dec. 10, breaking a
previous 1990 record of 40.6 million pounds, Denver-based
pricing service  TradeTech LLC  said in a Dec. 10 report. The spot
price rose 25 cents to $60.50 and new demand has emerged from a
non-U.S. utility, TradeTech said.  Uranium, processed into fuel for nuclear plants, rebounded
to the highest in more than two years as Asian utilities secure
material for the next decade and China builds stockpiles,
according to Macquarie Bank Ltd. Asia may operate 300 nuclear
power reactors by 2030, up from 115 units today, inspection and
certification agency  Lloyd’s Register Group  said last week.  “Currently, spot supply is extremely thin with most
sellers now holding firmly to their offer prices and looking
ahead to rising demand during the first quarter of 2011,”
TradeTech said.  This year’s record volumes in the spot market represent the
third straight year of growth. About 10 million pounds of
uranium were sold in spot transactions in 2007, the lowest in at
least 12 years, according to TradeTech data. One million pounds
of uranium equal about 385 tons of the radioactive material.  China Guangdong Nuclear Power Co. last month agreed on
long-term supply with Kazatomprom and  Cameco Corp. , the two
largest uranium mining companies. China’s imports this year
equal about 20 percent to 25 percent of global consumption,
according to Macquarie Bank.  Chinese purchases from Kazakhstan, the world’s biggest
supplier of the material, Uzbekistan, and Namibia have taken
more than 6 million pounds out of the spot market, Macquarie
Bank analyst  Max Layton  said Nov. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yuriy Humber  in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  