-- Turkish Central Bank's Vice Governor Seeks Interest Rate Cut; Lira Falls
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2010-12-13T07:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/turkish-vice-governor-seeks-rate-cut-reserve-increase-update1-.html
The deputy head of Turkey’s central
bank proposed lowering the benchmark interest rate and
increasing the amount of reserves banks must park at the central
bank to help curb the current account deficit.  Deputy Governor  Erdem Basci , who may succeed Durmus Yilmaz
as head of the bank in Ankara next year, said a combination of
short-term rate cuts to limit a rise in the lira and higher
reserve requirement ratios to slow credit growth is the “ideal
policy mix” to tackle a widening  current-account  gap. He made
the proposal in a paper published over the weekend on the
central bank’s website.  The bank is trying to manage increased short-term capital
inflows at the same time as taking measures to prevent a credit
bubble in an  economy  that expanded an annual 5.5 percent in the
third quarter and may exceed 8 percent growth this year.  “This sounds like a risky strategy and could lead to
market volatility,”  Yarkin Cebeci , an Istanbul-based economist
for JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in an e-mailed report. “The
central bank could make this response as early as this
Thursday.”  The lira dropped 0.6 percent to 1.5137 per dollar at 9:12
a.m. in Istanbul, the lowest level since Sept. 10.  The monetary policy committee is due to meet to set rates
Dec. 16. Governor Durmus Yilmaz said Dec. 8 that an additional
increase to the reserve requirement ratio of 6 percent for lira
was likely before the end of the year.  The current account gap in the 12 months ending September
was $32.5 billion, more than triple the shortfall a year earlier
and equal to about 4 percent of forecast 2010 gross domestic
product. The state statistics agency will announce October
current-account figures at 10:00 a.m. in Ankara today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 