-- Turkmens Open New Gas Export Market After Agreement on Trans-Afghan Pipe
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2010-12-13T09:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/turkmen-push-trans-afghan-pipe-to-india-with-government-accord.html
Turkmenistan has moved closer to
opening another market for its natural gas reserves after
signing an agreement for a pipeline to India via Afghanistan.  Turkmen President Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov signed the
preliminary accord with Afghan President Hamid Karzai, Pakistan
President Asif Ali Zardari and Indian Oil Minister Murli Deora
during a meeting in Ashgabat, Turkmenistan, on Dec. 11,
according to the Turkmen state website.  The 1,735 kilometer project through Afghanistan, where the
United States has fought an insurgency for eight years,
envisions capacity of 33 billion cubic meters gas a year,
according to the website. The Turkmen leader called the Asia
Development Bank’s support a key element in signing the accord.  The ADB will consider how it can assist in financing the
project as it develops, Juan Miranda, director-general of the
bank’s Central and West Asia Department, said today by e-mail.  “This project, aside from commercial and economic profits,
is destined to be a stabilizing influence on the general
situation in the region,” Berdymukhammedov said on the website.  Turkmenistan has sought additional markets since it vaulted
to fourth-biggest among the world’s holders of gas reserves,
according to a 2009 audit by BP Plc.  Previously reliant on Soviet-era infrastructure
Turkmenistan opened a pipeline to China last year after an
explosion on the link to Russia, the world’s largest holder of
the fuel, halted deliveries. Turkmenistan also increased
capacity to Iran since the explosion.  Last month Baymurad Hojamuhammedov, deputy head of
Turkmenistan’s Cabinet of Ministers, said that the country was
building capacity to ship 40 billion cubic meters of gas a year
to Europe. Turkmenistan, with a population of just over 5
million, aims to produce 230 billion cubic meters of gas by
2030, according to the state estimates.  A different project originating in Iran, the world’s
second-largest reserve holder, also seeks to supply gas to
Pakistan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 