-- Valero Says It Plans to Restart Aruba Oil Refinery in `Next Several Days'
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l   a n d   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2010-12-13T17:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/valero-says-it-plans-to-restart-aruba-oil-refinery-in-next-several-days-.html
Valero Energy Corp.  plans to begin
the restart of its Aruba oil refinery “within the next several
days,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  Valero shut the plant indefinitely on Aug. 26, 2009, after
it lost money in the second quarter of that year. Since then,
the company has overhauled the refinery to prepare for a restart
if margins improved and to make it more attractive to buyers.  “The startup process will begin on selected refinery units
and will continue through December, with the expectation that
all refinery units will be operating fully by the end of
January,” Valero said in the statement.  Valero, which announced the sale of two of its 17 North
American refineries this year, is seeking a buyer for  Aruba . The
235,000-barrel-a-day refinery, third largest in the Caribbean,
has been for sale for more than three years.  Bill Day , a spokesman for San Antonio-based Valero, said in
an e-mail Dec. 10 that it will be an advantage “having Aruba
making intermediates while we have Gulf Coast units in
turnarounds” in the first quarter.  The Aruba refinery can produce distillate fuel,
intermediate feedstocks and blending components for the U.S.,
South American and European markets. The plant, which can
process lower-cost heavy, high-sulfur crude oil, was a supplier
to Valero’s seven other Gulf Coast refineries.  LNG Imports  Valero, along with the government of Aruba, also announced
that they had signed a memorandum of understanding addressing
the delivery of a liquefied natural gas to Aruba, “which will
help reduce utility costs and lower emissions on the island,”
according to the release.  The largest plants in the region are the Hovensa refinery
in the Virgin Islands, a joint venture between  Petroleos de
Venezuela SA  and  Hess Corp. , followed by the Isla plant in the
Netherlands Antilles operated by PDVSA.  Heavy, sour Maya crude from Mexico, the kind the Aruba
plant processes, was worth $9.49 a barrel less than light, sweet
West Texas Intermediate oil as of Dec. 10, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a discount of $4.89 a
barrel on Aug. 3, 2009. Plants that process heavy, sour crudes
can be more profitable as the discounts for those grades widen.  The premium of heating oil over crude oil, or crack spread,
based on January contracts, was $15.43 a barrel as of Dec. 10 on
the New York Mercantile Exchange. Heating oil is traded as a
surrogate for other distillates, including diesel.  Valero is the largest of the U.S. independent oil refiners,
companies without oil or natural gas production. Its 15 North
American plants can process more than 2.8 million barrels of oil
a day.  The company sold its refinery in Delaware to PBF Energy Co.
LLC, the partnership backed by private-equity firms Blackstone
Group LP and First Reserve Corp. Valero in September agreed to
sell its Paulsboro, New Jersey, refinery, also to PBF.  Valero fell 15 cents, or 0.7 percent, $21.47 at 12:39 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barbara Powell  in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Burkhardt  in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 