-- Vinashin's Debt Troubles to Hurt Vietnam Banks' Credit Quality, S&P Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-13T10:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/vinashin-s-debt-troubles-to-hurt-vietnam-banks-credit-quality-s-p-says.html
Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry
Group’s potential failure to make debt payments is likely to
undermine the credit quality and profitability of Vietnam’s
banks, according to Standard & Poor’s.  The state-run company, known as Vinashin, may default on
foreign-currency debt due in “in the near term,” highlighting
the need for lenders to assess the creditworthiness of each
government-controlled entity, S&P said in a statement today.  Vinashin may represent as much as 3 percent of the
individual loan portfolios of some state-owned Vietnamese banks,
according to Moody’s Investors Service. Banks that had counted
on government bailouts in the event of problems in lending to
state-run firms may post larger-than-expected credit losses, S&P
said today.  “Vinashin is the first signal that state-owned banks have
more doubtful loans than appeared to be the case in the past,”
 Alain Cany , the Ho Chi Minh City-based chairman of  the European
Chamber of Commerce in Vietnam , said by telephone today. “This
may reduce the valuations of state-owned banks, but the problem
is that not many people know the extent of it yet.”  Vinashin had debt of about 86 trillion dong ($4.4 billion)
as of June, the government said in August. The shipbuilder may
delay a $60 million payment on a $600 million loan,  Moody’s  said
last month in a note.  One-Year Delay  “All eyes are now on an impending syndicated loan
repayment that the company must make,”  Vietnam Holding Ltd. , a
U.K.-listed fund, said in a  note  posted on its website today.
“Vinashin’s management is seeking a one-year delay in the
timing of the payment, for want of sufficient cash.”  Nguyen Ngoc Su , chairman of Vinashin, didn’t immediately
respond to telephone calls, while Chief Executive Office Truong
Van Tuyen wasn’t immediately available on his mobile phone.  “Vinashin’s woes highlight the lack of transparency, weak
accountability and poor corporate governance in Vietnam,”  Ivan Tan , a credit analyst at S&P, said in the note today. “A wide
disconnect exists between industry-reported non-performing loan
ratios and the true state of the system’s asset quality.”  Government-controlled companies in the nation account for
30 percent to 40 percent of loan books at state-run banks, S&P
said.  While Vietnam’s government is “restructuring Vinashin’s
projects” to help the company operate profitably, the
shipbuilder should make its $60 million debt payment on its own,
Minister of Planning and Investment  Vo Hong Phuc  said Dec. 8.  Company’s Credit Quality  The government’s stance on Vinashin indicates that it
expects creditors to lend to government-related entities based
on each company’s credit quality, “without an expectation of
timely extraordinary government support when required,” S&P
said.  The government is coping with a budget deficit and doesn’t
want to come to Vinashin’s rescue, Vietnam Holding said.  “Until now, commercial banks -- both foreign and local
alike -- have tended to regard loans made to large state-owned
corporations as having an implied government guarantee,” said
Vietnam Holding. “It now looks like Vinashin will serve as the
acid test for this perception.”  Vinashin’s problems are also unlikely to stop capital
injections into state-owned lenders in Vietnam, it said, citing
the banks’ systemic importance, and the government’s majority
ownership and history of providing support.  -- Jason Folkmanis  in Ho Chi Minh City and  Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  in
Hanoi. Editors:  Chitra Somayaji ,  Russell Ward   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Folkmanis  in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;
 Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen  in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  