-- Wall Street Sees Record Revenue in ’09-10 Recovery From Bailout
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2010-12-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/wall-street-sees-record-revenue-in-09-10-recovery-from-government-bailout.html
Wall Street’s biggest banks,
rebounding after a government bailout, are set to complete their
best two years in investment banking and trading, buoyed by 2010
results likely to be the second-highest ever.  The five largest U.S. firms by investment-banking and
trading revenue --  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley --
will likely have a better fourth quarter than the previous two
periods, driven by equity underwriting and higher volume in
stock and bond trading, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Even if this quarter only matches the third, the banks’ revenue
will top that of any year except 2009.  The surge has come after the five banks took a combined
$135 billion from the Treasury Department’s Troubled Asset
Relief Program and borrowed billions more from the Federal
Reserve’s emergency-lending facilities in late 2008 and early
2009 following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
Since then, the firms have benefited from low interest rates and
the Fed’s purchases of fixed-income securities.  “This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for most of
these banks, and I think they’ve recognized it as that,” said
 Charles Geisst , a finance professor at Manhattan College in
Riverdale, New York, who has written about Wall Street’s
history. “The profits they’re making now will allow them to
replenish their capital and take care of the other things they
need to do.”  That may include beginning to return more of their profits
to shareholders. The Fed issued guidelines last month on how it
will decide whether large U.S. banks may increase  dividends  and
buy back shares.  Capital Rules  New rules that will force banks to hold more capital and
move derivatives trading to clearinghouses may make it difficult
for the firms to continue bouncing back from the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression. Revenue growth may also be
threatened by narrower spreads than those that spurred fixed-
income trading over the last two years and less client trading,
analysts said.  “The strength of 2010 was really front-loaded,” said
 Roger Freeman , a banking analyst at Barclays Capital in New
York. “The best quarter of the year was by far the first
quarter, which had some carry-over from the 2009 environment.
The other quarters have actually highlighted the challenges in
their world right now.”  Cutting Bonuses  Those challenges may lead banks to cut bonuses as they seek
to reduce costs and boost profitability amid lagging  stock
prices . Overall pay for investment-banking and trading employees
at Wall Street firms will be down 22 percent to 28 percent from
2009, according to Options Group, a New York-based executive
search and compensation consultant firm.  Goldman Sachs’s compensation expenses in the first nine
months were 21 percent less than a year earlier, while the pay
pools at JPMorgan’s and Morgan Stanley’s investment banks were
down 10 percent and 8 percent. Morgan Stanley has told some
employees to expect investment-banking bonuses to decline 10
percent to 30 percent, according to two people briefed on the
matter. All three firms are based in New York.  The five banks generated $93.7 billion in the first nine
months from advisory, debt and equity underwriting, and from
trading stocks and bonds, about 10 percent less than the same
period in 2009, when revenue for the year was $127.8 billion.  The banks don’t all report profit from investment banking
and trading, so the only way to compare those businesses is to
look at revenue. Spokesmen for the five banks declined to
comment on fourth-quarter performance.  Fixed-Income Trading  Trading and investment banking account for 33 percent of
the five firms’ total revenue, ranging from 79 percent at
Goldman Sachs to 21 percent at Charlotte, North Carolina-based
 Bank of America , according to company filings.  Including Bear Stearns Cos., purchased by JPMorgan in 2008,
and Merrill Lynch, which Bank of America bought last year, the
seven Wall Street firms posted a then-record $119.4 billion in
2006. That doesn’t include revenue at Lehman Brothers, which
filed for bankruptcy in September 2008 and was acquired, in
part, by London-based Barclays Plc.  Business this year has centered largely on trading bonds,
credit derivatives, interest-rate swaps, currencies and
commodities. The firms’ fixed-income trading divisions accounted
for 61 percent of total investment-banking and trading revenue
in the first nine months of the year, compared with 50 percent
in 2006 and 51 percent in 2005, according to company filings.  Goldman Sachs made $7.39 billion from fixed-income trading
in the first quarter of 2010, more than it made in that division
in all of 2004.  ‘Arbitrage Opportunities’  “We’ll go back toward normal investment banking one of
these days, but until then, this is going to be mostly
concentrated in fixed income,” said Geisst. “The low-interest-
rate environment is creating arbitrage opportunities and
positive carry opportunities.”  The banks have benefited from rising bond prices as well as
the Fed’s purchase of fixed-income securities, known as
quantitative easing, said  James Ellman , president of San
Francisco-based hedge fund Seacliff Capital LLC. The Fed
purchased $1.7 trillion of assets in the first round of buying
and last month announced it will purchase an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June.  “The Fed is a much greater influence in the fixed-income
markets than it has been in the past,” Ellman said. “They are
moving very large dollar amounts around, and they are indicating
in advance what they are going to be doing.”  Equity Underwriting  The banks are set to post higher revenue in the last three
months of the year than in the previous two quarters, each of
which was down 34 percent from the first quarter. Equity
underwriting may be double that of the third quarter and stock
and bond-trading volumes are higher.  Global equity offerings have already topped those of any
quarter since 1999, when Bloomberg records begin. Companies have
raised $205.2 billion through share sales so far this quarter,
and initial public offerings are more than double those of the
full year-earlier period, Bloomberg data show.  “Overall equity-issuance volumes have been disappointing
for most of the year but have rebounded quite smartly since
Labor Day, and we have done our best to take advantage of
that,” said  Paul J. Taubman , 49, co-president of institutional
securities at Morgan Stanley, which is the top equity
underwriter so far this year.  Trading Treasuries  Companies worldwide completed $270.2 billion of mergers and
acquisitions in the first two months of the quarter, Bloomberg
data show. That’s down from the first two months of the third
quarter, when they completed $275.4 billion of deals before
ending the quarter with $372.9 billion.  The  average  daily dollar amount of U.S. Treasuries traded
so far this quarter is up 29 percent from last quarter,
according to data from ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-
dealer broker. The average trading volume in high-yield
corporate bonds is 9.7 percent higher than last quarter, while
investment-grade trading is up 1.2 percent, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Equity investors have traded a daily average of 7.8 billion
shares on major U.S. exchanges so far in the fourth quarter,
according to Bloomberg data. That’s up 2.8 percent from the
third quarter, when the five banks posted their lowest trading
revenue this year.  “Wall Street likes a little bit of volatility around a
steady trend,” Ellman said. “That’s the best situation for
them, and right now we’ve got that.”  ‘Wild Card’  While trading volumes are an indicator of performance, they
may not correlate directly with firms’ revenue because banks
make money on changes in the value of the securities they hold
and transaction fees that may not be related to volume.  Banks’ fourth-quarter performance may be more dependent on
principal gains or losses in their trading businesses than last
quarter because of increased volatility, Barclays’ Freeman said.  “When you get volatility, the principal positioning
becomes more of a wild card,” he said. “When you’ve got credit
spreads moving quickly, that could be good or bad, depending on
how you’re positioned.”  Banks may have trouble sustaining the rebound in fourth-
quarter revenue in 2011 as new regulations are put in place.
While trading could benefit from investors moving into higher-
yielding assets next year, banks will begin to feel pressure
from new rules on derivatives and a ban on most proprietary
trading, analysts said.  Those rules, signed into law by President  Barack Obama  in
July, will reduce pretax margins in fixed-income trading to 23
percent from 24.9 percent and in the equities business to 10
percent from 13.8 percent, according to estimates from  Brad Hintz , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  ‘High-Water Mark’  Investment-banking revenue, less than one-fourth of the
banks’ trading revenue, may increase in 2011 because of higher
numbers of mergers and acquisitions, according to Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods Inc. analysts led by  Frederick Cannon .  Revenue increases over the last two years haven’t
translated into record profits for many of the banks, as they
have faced higher costs and credit losses.  Bank of America  shares have dropped 15 percent this year
through Dec. 10, while Morgan Stanley has fallen 9 percent,
JPMorgan 0.6 percent and Goldman Sachs 0.2 percent. Shares of
New York-based  Citigroup , which have plunged 92 percent from
their 2006 high, have climbed 44 percent in 2010. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  has risen 11 percent this year.  The banks’ record performance in 2009 might be a “high-
water mark” for a while, said  Kenneth Crawford , a senior
portfolio manager at Argent Capital Management LLC in St. Louis,
which oversees more than $1 billion.  “The advent, one hopes, of a growing world economy and the
demand that implies means that you might have more volume at a
lower margin, and at some point we’ll eclipse 2009 levels,”
Crawford said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  