-- Wall Street Woman Tells All With Two Letters: Susan Antilla
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2010-12-13T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/wall-street-woman-tells-all-with-two-letters-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
So now we know how women can find
fame and fortune after they get booted from their Wall Street
jobs:  -- Dispense sex and dating advice.  -- Establish an exclusive area of expertise -- say, your
abundant experience with men of various races.  -- Publish a blog to assist the befuddled female masses who
struggle to divine whether a Latino, Asian, Middle Eastern,
black or white guy would be the best choice for a romp in the
sack or a sex-free fun night out.  If all that works out for you, then write a book that
features five ethnically diverse boy toys on the  cover .  That, in any event, is the career recovery recipe of J.C.
Davies, a University of California, Berkeley, and Harvard grad
who started as a securities analyst at ING Barings in 2000,
moved to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  in 2001, and then lost her job
at Rim Securities LLC in the 2008 credit crisis.  “I came up with the idea a couple months after I left Wall
Street,” she told me in a telephone interview last week,
referring to her “Racy JC” blog and overarching goal to make
money exploiting her interracial dating prowess. With “more
than 20 years of experience dating men of different cultures,
including: Latino, Asian, Jewish, Black and Middle Eastern,” as
her Web page explains it, who could argue she’s not the right
person to write, “I Got the Fever: Love, What’s Race Gotta Do
With It?  Judging by the Cover  The five buff hunks on her book cover, by the way, are
models, and not men the author has sampled. “I definitely dated
a couple with amazing bods, but in general, men don’t have
amazing bods, so I didn’t want to put men I knew on the cover,”
she told me.  I hate to turn to serious matters when we’re having such a
good time, but Davies is exactly the sort of phenom that Wall
Street women don’t need. It would be hard to argue that she
isn’t smart (masters degree in health-policy management from
Harvard), or that her blog doesn’t have what it takes to draw
certain readers. I mean, when’s the last time you clicked on
your favorite blog to discover a Filipino man’s lament that a
lady blew him off because Asians supposedly are under-endowed?  And while it would be a challenge to verify that 20-years-
of-cross-racial-dating claim, I’ll take her at her word that
she’s the leading expert on discerning the best imaginable
racial preference for a hot night on the town.  Unfortunately, all of the above is nothing but fuel for
Wall Street troglodytes looking for another example of why women
shouldn’t be taken seriously.  ‘Colors of the Rainbow’  She’s been called things that are probably best left to the
imagination, with much of the commentary showing up on websites
like  dealbreaker.com , which crowned her the expert on manliness
“of all colors of the rainbow.”  As Davies sees it, some of her male Wall Street critics
pull in massive salaries for relatively unimpressive work while
she took risks selling her apartment for capital to set up a
publishing venture. “If a dude wrote this book, this would not
be happening,” she said of the criticism. She’s no doubt right
on that. Just the opposite, if anything: A lot of Wall Street
men would serve as cheerleaders for a guy who offered up
comparable insights about female anatomy.  Still, it nags at me when a former Wall Street woman does
anything that provides fodder for the horde of men looking for
reasons to hold financial women back. Women took a
disproportionate hit in the post-crisis layoffs on Wall Street,
and it’s gotten so bad that some female job seekers have taken
to substituting their first names with initials on their
resumes, so as to improve the odds they will get in the door for
an interview.  Wall Street Veterans  I learned about that trend from a veteran Wall Street woman
who contacted me a few weeks ago. As is almost always the case
when I get calls like hers, she wouldn’t talk on the record,
fearing it would hurt her on the job. There’s the rub: credible
women who are boosting their firms’ bottom lines are rarely
heard on the tough issues that women face, while racy stories
like that of Davies are magnets for publicity (including, I
admit, this column) and derision.  Davies may have gone a very different route from the women
who stay in finance and toe the line. But a decade ago, she made
a decision just like the one many of today’s Wall Street women
make. When she was preparing to publish her first research
report, a black male colleague said that he would wind up as the
more successful analyst “because they can’t tell on a report
that I’m black, but they can tell you’re a woman.”  And with that, Jessica Celeste Davies recorded her first
name as “J.C.,” the name she published under for the rest of
her Wall Street career. Ten years later, masking your gender the
way she did is still a valued strategy for women trying to make
it in a hostile industry.  ( Susan Antilla , a Bloomberg News columnist, is the author
of the 2002 book, ‘’Tales from the Boom-Boom Room.” The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
Susan Antilla in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  