-- WikiLeaks Can Survive Swedish, U.S. Assange Probes, Lawyers Say
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-13T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/wikileaks-can-survive-swedish-u-s-probes-without-assange-lawyers-say.html
WikiLeaks , the website under fire
for leaking classified U.S. government documents, may be
impossible to silence even as its founder sits in jail and
American prosecutors contemplate espionage charges.  The website, which releases leaked files online, can
replicate its data if shut down and doesn’t need a high-profile
leader like founder  Julian Assange , said  John Perry Barlow , co-
founder of the  Electronic Frontier Foundation , which promotes
freedom of information on the Internet.  “As much as I hate to say it, he may be more of a
liability than asset at the moment,” Barlow said in an
interview. “I am committed to seeing that he gets justice, but
WikiLeaks cannot just be the extension of one person who can, as
we see, be taken out.”  Assange, 39, has a second U.K. court hearing tomorrow after
being denied bail in an extradition fight with Sweden, where he
faces rape allegations. His Dec. 7 arrest came nine days after
WikiLeaks began posting selections from a group of about 250,000
classified U.S. diplomatic communications, drawing condemnation
from the Justice Department and U.S. allies.  WikiLeaks gained prominence in April when it posted U.S.
military documents, including a video of a July 2007 helicopter
attack in Iraq that killed a Reuters television cameraman and
his driver. Created in 2006, WikiLeaks posts documents “so
readers and historians alike can see evidence of the truth,”
according to its website.  U.S. Criminal Investigation  U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  said at a news conference
on Nov. 29 that the Justice Department was conducting a criminal
investigation into the release of government documents, saying
such leaks put lives at risk. On Dec. 9, Holder said the agency
was probing cyber attacks against companies perceived to be
hostile to WikiLeaks.  Stuart Slotnick, a lawyer with Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney
PC in New York and former federal prosecutor, said the U.S. will
most likely charge Assange, and possibly WikiLeaks itself, with
violating the Espionage Act of 1917.  Jennifer Robinson, one of Assange’s lawyers in the U.K.,
said her client was seeking legal advice regarding possible U.S.
charges and calls for his prosecution from “high-profile”
public officials.  “Any prosecution under the Espionage Act would be
unconstitutional and call into question First Amendment
protections for all media organizations,” Robinson said in an
e-mail.  ‘Mirror Websites’  Even if the government wins such a case, it could be
futile, Slotnick said.  “It might ultimately prove to be impossible to shut
WikiLeaks down because of their network of ‘mirror’ websites,’”
Slotnick said in an interview. “As soon as they shut one down,
another one will appear.”  A mirror site is a copy of a website hosted in a different
location. WikiLeaks was mirrored on 1,559 sites hosted in
Sweden, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Russia, Poland and other
countries as of Dec. 10, according to its website.  Even with its data secure, WikiLeaks’ ability to raise
money is being cramped. EBay Inc.’s PayPal unit restricted an
account that raised money for WikiLeaks after the State
Department published a Nov. 27 letter about possible violations
of U.S. law. MasterCard Inc. and Visa Europe Ltd. have also
barred WikiLeaks from using their brands to collect cash.  ‘Waste of Time’  Such attempts to constrain WikiLeaks’ resources are
probably a “total waste of time,”  Peter Sommer , a professor at
the London School of Economics’ Information Systems Integrity
Group, said by phone. “The stuff is out there, and it will
continue to be circulated.”  Mark Stephens , another Assange lawyer in London, said
WikiLeaks can survive without access to Visa or MasterCard.  “There are a lot of very wealthy individuals who are
prepared to stand behind them and support them financially,”
Stephens said. WikiLeaks’ revelations “will most assuredly
continue” without Assange, he said.  Stephens and Robinson regularly represent media
organizations, including Bloomberg News.  Assange was denied bail by a U.K. judge last week as
Swedish prosecutors seek his extradition as part of a rape and
sexual molestation investigation. U.K. prosecutors said at a
Dec. 7 hearing that some claims relate to whether Assange failed
to use condoms during sex and may have exploited a woman while
she was sleeping.  Assange denies the allegations and Stephens has said the
case may be “politically motivated.”  ‘Insider Breaches’  Even without Assange, WikiLeaks’ mission can be
accomplished due to the large supply of sympathetic people
willing to hack or distribute data from companies and
governments, said  John D’Arcy , a professor of information
technology management at the University of Notre Dame.  “If the U.S. government were to shut WikiLeaks down, that
wouldn’t solve anything,” D’Arcy said in an interview. “The
issue isn’t so much WikiLeaks; it’s the fact that the government
is vulnerable to insider breaches.”  As Assange awaits tomorrow’s scheduled hearing in London,
two WikiLeaks servers remain safe in Stockholm, where they are
hosted by the Internet service provider  Bahnhof AB , in a
mountain-cavity facility in the city’s Soedermalm district.  Bahnhof Chief Executive Officer  Anna Mossberg  said the
company hasn’t been contacted or pressured by any government.  “The two things that would cause us to drop a client would
be if they stop paying invoices or if the Swedish police would
contact us and say that the customer is doing something
illegal,” Mossberg said by phone.  Assange was denied residency in Sweden, which would have
allowed him to establish WikiLeaks as a Swedish publication
protected by the constitution.  Attempts by governments and corporations to shut WikiLeaks
down are doomed to fail, the Electronic Frontier Foundation’s
Barlow said.  “The institutions of the industrial period -- the nation-
states and corporations -- are powerful and ruthless,” he said.
“But they’re not as agile, adaptive, or determined as we are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 