-- Wood Group Buys PSN for $955 Million to Boost Service
-- B y   S t e p h e n   C u n n i n g h a m   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-12-13T17:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/wood-group-buys-psn-for-955-million-to-boost-service-update1-.html
John Wood Group Plc , a U.K. oil and
gas services company, agreed to pay $955 million for  PSN Ltd.  to
create the world’s leading brownfield production services
provider. Shares rose to a record close in London trading.  Wood Group will pay $627 million to PSN shareholders in
cash and its shares and will finance $328 million of PSN’s debt,
the purchaser said today in a statement. The acquisition will
roughly double Wood Group’s field service order portfolio to
more than $6 billion, said Chief Executive Officer Allister
Langlands.  Wood Group PSN will employ more than 22,000 people with
around $3 billion in annual revenue from field production
services in over 30 countries. PSN, which gets about 70 percent
of its revenue outside the U.K., is  providing services  to Royal
Dutch Shell Plc and Noble Energy Inc. among other clients and
will add about $1.2 billion in annual revenue to Wood Group.  “This deal isn’t about job cutting and rationalization,
it’s about creating a business for significant growth,”
Langlands said. “One of the challenges in the oil and gas
industry is funding enough high-quality people to meet demand of
our customers.”  Wood Group rose 32.8 pence, or 6.7 percent, to a record 521
pence in London. Shares are up 69 percent this year.  The two Aberdeen-based companies are combining businesses
to expand in new regions and plan to complete the transaction in
the second quarter of next year.  Equity Issue  “Whilst we see a logical and strategic fit for the PSN
acquisition within Wood Group’s engineering and production
facilities division, we feel that there is a  risk  of an equity
issue in the New Year to reduce the level of debt taken on to
fund the acquisition,” said Keith Morris, a London-based
 analyst  at Evolution Securities Ltd. Morris cut his
recommendation for Wood Group to “add” from “buy.”  Separately, Wood Group said its full-year performance will
be “slightly ahead” of its  expectations . In production
facilities, the company is active in the North Sea and is
developing its business in Angola, Australia and Oman.  “We certainly see a good growth coming in 2011,”
Langlands said. The gas-turbine market will continue to be
“soft again in 2011, just reflecting the economics for
electricity generation at the current time particularly in
Europe and North America.”  JPMorgan Cazenove Ltd. and Credit Suisse acted as joint
financial advisers and joint corporate brokers to Wood Group.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised PSN on the transaction.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Stephen Cunningham in London at 
 scunningha10@bloomberg.net 
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  