-- WTO Rejects Chinese Complaint Against U.S.'s Anti-Dumping Tariffs on Tires
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2010-12-13T15:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/wto-rejects-chinese-complaint-against-u-s-s-anti-dumping-tariffs-on-tires.html
World Trade Organization judges
rejected China’s complaint that U.S. tariffs on Chinese car and
light-truck tires violate global trade rules, saying the Obama
administration “did not fail to comply with its obligations.”  President  Barack Obama  announced the three-year duties on
$1.8 billion of tires from China in September 2009, acting on a
complaint by the  United Steelworkers  union, which represents
15,000 employees at 13 tire plants in the U.S. The union said
Chinese tire exports to the U.S. tripled from 2001 to 2004 to 41
million and called for a cap on annual imports of 21 million.  The case was the largest so-called safeguard petition filed
to protect U.S. producers from growing imports from China. Union
leaders and Democratic lawmakers said at the time the decision
was proof of Obama’s commitment to safeguarding domestic workers
and jobs.  The Chinese government said the tariffs broke WTO rules and
were a “serious case of trade protectionism, which China
resolutely opposes.” It lodged a  complaint  at the Geneva-based
WTO against the duties just three days after Obama announced
them.  ‘Major Victory’  “This is a major victory for the United States and
particularly for American workers and businesses,” U.S. Trade
Representative  Ron Kirk  said in a statement from Washington
today. “This outcome demonstrates that the Obama administration
is strongly committed to using and defending our trade remedy
laws to address harm to our workers and industries.”  Trade complaints against China have surged since Obama
became president -- as have retaliatory steps by the Chinese
government. China calls U.S. complaints against its exporters
signs of protectionism while the U.S. says it’s enforcing trade
rules.  The two countries, the world’s largest and second-largest
economies with $366 billion in annual two-way goods  trade  in
2009, have clashed over access to each others’ markets for
products including steel pipes, auto parts, poultry, movies and
music. China ran up a $201 billion trade surplus with the U.S.
in the first nine months of this year, more than the U.S.
 deficit  with the next seven-largest trading partners combined,
according to Commerce Department data.  That gap, together with the drop in American manufacturing
employment and the U.S. contention that the yuan -- which has
gained 2.4 percent since a two-year peg to the dollar ended on
June 19 -- is undervalued, has made China a target for Congress
and voter anger.  Opposition  The Tire Industry Association opposed the tariffs, saying
they would create shortages and hardships for tire retailers
without helping domestic manufacturers. Findlay, Ohio-based
 Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. , the second-biggest U.S. tiremaker, and
the U.S. unit of Osaka, Japan-based Toyo Tire & Rubber Co.,
which has a plant in Atlanta, were also against the tariffs.  One year after the duties kicked in, they have “reversed a
massive decline in domestic production and provided much-needed
relief to workers, their employers and communities from a flood
of Chinese tires,” according to  Leo Gerard , president of the
Pittsburgh-based United Steelworkers.  The tariffs are calculated as a percentage of tires’
value. Obama imposed a levy of 35 percent in the first year, 30
percent in the second year and 25 percent in the third year, on
top of the 4 percent duty applied to all passenger-vehicle and
light-truck tires imported into the U.S. market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer M. Freedman  in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  