-- Yale's Marrow Drive Matches Field Hockey Player With Anonymous Recipient
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-12-13T17:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-13/yale-s-marrow-drive-matches-field-hockey-player-with-anonymous-recipient.html
Yale  field hockey player  Lexy Adams 
will donate stem cells after joining a bone marrow drive
organized by the university’s football and women’s ice hockey
teams.  Adams, 18, a sophomore from Lancaster, Pennsylvania,
learned she was a genetic match for an anonymous recipient over
Thanksgiving break, Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut,
said in a news release. The stem cells will be taken from bone
marrow.  She signed up for the National Marrow Donor Program when
the two teams organized a donor drive last spring in search of a
match for Mandi Schwartz, a Yale ice hockey player who had been
diagnosed with leukemia in December 2008.  “I had never even considered signing up until my friends
talked me into it,” Adams said. “I am terrified of needles.
When I signed up, they say that the chances are so small that
you’ll be called, I never thought it would be me.”  While the donor drive didn’t yield a match for Schwartz --
she revived stem cells from donated umbilical cord blood and is
recovering in Seattle -- it registered 704 students in 2009 and
another 921 this year. In addition to Adams, three people who
registered during the Yale drives have been matches.  For five days before the donation, Adams will be injected
with a drug that stimulates her bone marrow cells, pushing them
into the blood stream, according to Yale. Her first injection
will be given by a nurse at her dorm room after she finishes her
economics final later this month.  The donation will take place at a hospital in Washington.
She will have blood drawn from one arm, the stem cells will be
extracted and the blood will be pumped back into the other arm
in a procedure that lasts six to eight hours, the college said.  “Lexy has been afforded an opportunity to give the
greatest gift one can give -- life,” said Yale field hockey
coach  Pam Stuper . “No different from any other day on the
field, Lexy is excited to contribute to the team, despite any
insecurities of her own about needles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  