-- Obama, Bernanke Need Miracles to Weather 2010: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-01-13T02:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-01-12/obama-bernanke-need-miracles-to-weather-2010-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             If 2009 was a year for massive
government intervention in the private economy and a full-court
press on health-care reform, 2010 will be a time for weaning the
nation from life support and evaluating what worked and what
didn't, and hopefully doing less of the second.  
 Specifically, it will be a time to test the validity of
certain economic principles, such as the notion that government
needs to spend money to save money. Already the Obama
administration has been embarrassed, by shoddy data and sheer
hubris, into rejiggering its measure of "jobs created or
saved" as a result of the $787 billion fiscal stimulus.  
 Now it's even mushier. All jobs funded by the American
Reinvestment and Recovery Act will be counted, even if they
predated the cash infusion.  
 Here are some other areas that bear watching.  
 Federal Reserve:  
 For all its talk about an exit strategy, the Federal
Reserve is about to learn that getting out is harder than
getting in.  
 Politically, raising interest rates is not a way for the
central bank to win friends and influence people on Capitol
Hill. Doing it at a time when the unemployment rate is
unacceptably high will make Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke the most
sought-after guest at congressional committee hearings, which
are sure to have all the atmospherics of a lynching. Just ask
Paul Volcker.  
 Roach Motel  
 As a practical matter, the Fed has various options in its
toolkit to prevent its bloated balance sheet from translating
into excess money and credit growth and ultimately inflation.  
 It can sell securities outright. It can drain reserves on
a temporary basis -- the equivalent of borrowing money from the
banking system -- through reverse repurchase agreements or a
recently proposed program of term-deposit sales. And it can
raise the interest rate it pays on reserves, currently 25 basis
points, to induce banks to hold their excess reserves at the Fed
instead of lending them out.  
 Once private markets are fully functional and the economy
is on stronger footing, what risk-free rate will it take to
discourage banks from making those loans? Will it be the same
for every bank? How does the Fed know, except through trial and
error? And what if too many errors upend the trial?  
 Federal Budget:  
 For President Barack Obama, 2010 will be the year of fiscal
responsibility -- once health care and another jobs bill are
enacted. Now is the time to get serious about the deficit, which
hit a record $1.4 trillion in fiscal 2009, or 9.9 percent of
gross domestic product, the biggest share since 1945.  
 The White House Office of Management and Budget expects a
$1.5 trillion deficit this year, even before health-care reform
becomes reality. Expanded coverage won't be fully phased in
until 2014, while the proposed taxes to pay for it start right
away. The effect will be further deterioration in the long-term
budget outlook.  
 Obama has pledged to go through the budget with a fine-
tooth comb, an exercise that will turn up more knots than
solutions. That's because there isn't much of a discretionary
budget to cut.  
 Non-defense discretionary spending accounts for only one-
sixth of the federal budget, according to Veronique de Rugy,
senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason
University in Arlington, Virginia.  
 Outsourcing Security  
 Congress will want to increase appropriations for homeland
security, which falls largely outside the defense budget,
following the Christmas underwear-bomber incident, according to
de Rugy. It would be smarter, and probably cheaper, to outsource
homeland security to the Israelis and El Al.  
 The rest of the budget is on automatic pilot: interest on
the public debt and entitlement spending on programs such as
Medicare and Social Security. Last year, the Treasury paid $383
billion on the $7.55 trillion of publicly held debt. Borrowing
at interest rates close to zero kept the cost down. In 2008,
interest on the public debt totaled $451 billion.  
 When P (price) starts to rise along with Q (quantity), the
result isn't going to be pretty. When the public debt
consistently grows faster than the economy, game over.  
 Congressional Elections:  
 The 2010 midterm election will be the most visible, and
certainly the most definitive, referendum on Democrats' one-
party rule.  
 Not that Republicans did any better. Divided government is
looking better by the day.  
 Only 38 percent of the public is in favor of the Democrats'
health-care plan, according to an average of nine opinion polls
by Realclearpolitics.com. If the folks in the survey are
anything like me, their disapproval started with Obama's cram-
down effort, telling Congress he wanted a bill on his desk by
the August recess.  
 From that point on, what was in the bill mattered less than
the urgency of restructuring 16 percent of the U.S. economy. We
were asked to believe that the House and Senate plans would
miraculously expand care and cut costs.  
 It'll be a year of miracles if challenges facing the Fed
and the administration can be solved that easily.  
 (Caroline Baum, author of "Just What I Said," is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on "Send Comment" in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        