-- Thailand Splits With Emerging Markets Over Outlook for Fed Bond Purchases
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   M i k e   F i r n
-- 2010-11-06T03:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/thailand-splits-with-emerging-markets-over-outlook-for-fed-bond-purchases.html
Thailand split with emerging-market
nations from China to Brazil over the outlook of the Federal
Reserve’s plan to inject extra liquidity into the U.S. economy,
saying the strategy should be given time to work.  “Let’s see how that pans out,” Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
ahead of an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum meeting in
Kyoto, Japan. “If the quantitative easing does result in
economic recovery in the U.S., result in an increase in the
level of consumption, I think that would be good news for the
global economy as a whole.”  The reaction to the Fed’s Nov. 3 announcement to buy $600
billion of Treasuries contrasts with that of other nations that
say the proposal will result in depreciating the dollar and
causing asset-price pressures outside the U.S. Korn also said
his nation must accept that its currency must appreciate given
its relative economic strength.  “The reality is we need to adjust to a stronger
currency,” said Korn, 46, who worked for JPMorgan Chase & Co.
before entering politics and studied at Oxford University. At
the same time, he said “we are keeping a close eye on the
situation to see whether any measures are needed in order to
prevent excessive volatility as a result of excessive
speculation. And I am willing to take what every necessary
action that may be required.”  Protectionist Concern  Korn separately said that while U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner ’s push to discuss global imbalances in trade
and investment flows is a “constructive approach,” Southeast
Asian nations oppose setting specific targets.  Korn and other Southeast Asian officials met with Geithner
today during the gathering of APEC finance ministers, which
precedes a summit of leaders of the 21-member group in Yokohama
Nov. 13-14.  “What we are concerned about is a rise in trade
protectionism as an attempt to correct the current-account
imbalances,” Korn said in the interview scheduled to air Nov. 8.
Setting “the current account as a target may lead to use of the
wrong tool in order to achieve that target.”  Asean Meeting  Korn said the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
countries agreed to voice their concerns to Geithner when they
met today and Vietnam, which represents the 10-member bloc this
year, will also “put forward” the issue at the Group of 20
summit in Seoul next week.  Geithner and his counterparts agreed that U.S. growth is
central to the global economy, the Treasury Department said in a
statement released in Kyoto. The U.S. also said the ASEAN
ministers were supportive of the pledge by G-20 finance
ministers to refrain from competitive currency weakening and
rein in big trade gaps.  Geithner and the Asian ministers “discussed the need for
multilateral cooperation in achieving strong and more balanced
global growth, including support for efforts at the G-20, to
ensure external stability and limit excessive current account
imbalances, with flexibility to respect individual country
circumstances,” the Treasury statement said.  After G-20 finance ministers last month agreed to refrain
from “competitive devaluations” of their currencies, global
policy makers have clashed over a suggestion from Geithner that
nations keep current-account deficits or surpluses at less than
4 percent of gross domestic product. China, Brazil and Germany
are also among those that have faulted the Fed’s stimulus this
week.  China Concern  “Many countries are worried about the impact of the policy
on their economies,” Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  said at
a press briefing in Beijing yesterday. “It would be appropriate
for someone to step forward and give us an explanation,
otherwise international confidence in the recovery and growth of
the global economy might be hurt.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday
in Berlin that the Fed’s move was “clueless” and wouldn’t
revive growth. Brazil’s central bank president,  Henrique Meirelles , said “excess liquidity” in the U.S. economy is
creating “risks for everyone.”  Korn said “we also need to see how the market reacts in
the medium term to that particular policy and how that impacts
upon our exchange rate and volatility, and then we will make the
decision” over whether to act. Korn reiterated that the
region’s central banks are in touch and prepared to take steps
if needed to address speculation.  ‘Open Economy’  “The currency issue probably will be discussed at the APEC
level as well,” Korn said. “It is an issue of concern for
Thailand and also for the Asean economy given that we are an
open economy. We depend on exports as an economic driver. We
have open capital flows. By large, it’s an issue that we want to
see some resolution on at least between the major economies.”  The MSCI World Index  of stocks has climbed 2.5 percent
since the Fed’s decision, while the dollar closed little changed
against the euro yesterday compared with its Nov. 2 close. The
dollar rallied yesterday after a U.S. government report showed
employers hired 151,000 workers in October, more than forecast,
in a sign of rising optimism about the economic outlook.  The baht is the best-performing currency this year in Asia
outside Japan, rising 12 percent versus the greenback, as
overseas investors bought $1.8 billion more of local equities
than they sold during the period, exchange data show.  Baht Gains  The baht rose for a fifth straight day, appreciating 0.1
percent to close at 29.67 per dollar in Bangkok yesterday after
touching 29.61, the strongest level since July 1997, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thailand last month scrapped a tax exemption for foreign
investors in domestic bonds to slow capital inflows that have
pushed the currency to a 13-year high.  The central bank on Oct. 28 raised its economic growth
forecast this year to as much as 8 percent, the fastest pace in
15 years, and Moody’s Investors Service raised the nation’s
credit rating outlook to stable from negative, citing the
strength of the recovery.  The baht’s strength is expected to be a “drag” on GDP
growth of as much as one percentage point, Korn said. Economic
growth next year is expected to slow to between 4.5 percent and
5 percent because of the high base for comparison and a
moderation in exports resulting from a stronger exchange rate,
according to Korn.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  