-- Amer Group Seeks to Raise $200 Million in Egypt's Second IPO This Year
-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2010-11-06T15:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/amer-group-aims-to-raise-200-million-in-egypt-s-second-ipo-this-year.html
Amer Group Holding , an Egyptian
developer of luxury resorts, said it plans to raise about 1.14
billion Egyptian pounds ($200 million) in a share sale, the
second initial public offering in the country this year.  “We’re starting to see market conditions improve globally,”
said  Aladdin Saba , chief executive officer of Cairo-based
Beltone Financial, which is arranging the sale. “We’re seeing
increased investor interest in Egypt, so we think this is an
appropriate time for the offering.”  The company said it plans to sell 80 percent of the
offering in a private placement closing Nov. 21 at a range of
2.60 pounds to 3.60 pounds a share. The rest will be sold
publicly at the same price, Saba said. The number of shares sold
will depend on the price investors are willing to pay, and the
offering has yet to be approved by the Egyptian exchange.  Amer’s share sale will follow Juhayna Food Industries, the
country’s biggest producer of packaged milk, which went public
in June. The global financial crisis halted new offerings in the
North African country in 2008 and 2009 as investors retreated
from emerging markets.  Amer Group announced last month the creation of a joint
venture with the Arabtec Holding Co., the biggest publicly
traded builder in the United Arab Emirates, and awarded it a $53
million residential project in Egypt. In addition to its
flagship Porto resorts on the Egyptian Mediterranean and Red
seas, Amer plans to expand to other countries in the Middle
East, including an announced $1 billion resort in Syria, Mansour
said on Oct. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ahmed A. Namatalla  in Cairo 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 