-- Manchester United Beats Wolves With Last-Minute Goal; Bolton Defeats Spurs
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-11-06T17:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/manchester-united-beats-wolves-with-last-minute-goal-bolton-defeats-spurs.html
Ji-Sung Park  scored in second-half
stoppage time to give Manchester United a 2-1 win over
Wolverhampton in English soccer’s Premier League.  Park scored both goals at Old Trafford as United moved
ahead of Arsenal into second place, two points behind Chelsea.  Bolton beat Tottenham 4-2, Blackburn defeated Wigan 2-1 and
Sunderland beat Stoke 2-0. Fulham scored late to draw 1-1 with
Aston Villa, Birmingham rallied to tie West Ham 2-2, while
Blackpool and Everton also drew 2-2.  Park gave United the victory in the third of four stoppage
minutes when he carried the ball into the area and fired a shot
past goalkeeper  Marcus Hahnemann  inside the near post.  Park had put the hosts in front just before halftime when
he scored off a pass from  Darren Fletcher . Sylvan Ebanks-Blake
then tied the game for Wolves, who remain next-to-last in the
standings, in the 66th minute.  United is the only unbeaten team in the league and moves
into second place with 23 points. League leader Chelsea visits
Liverpool tomorrow, while Arsenal hosts Newcastle.  Kevin Davies  scored two goals against Tottenham as Bolton
extended its unbeaten run at home in the league to 11 games. The
win moves Wanderers into fifth place ahead of Spurs, Sunderland
and West Brom on goal difference.  Gretar Steinsson also scored as Bolton took a 3-0 lead
before Tottenham rallied with goals from  Alan Hutton  and  Roman Pavlyuchenko .  Martin Petrov  then clinched the victory with a
goal in stoppage time.  Bottom Three  Asamoah Gyan scored both goals as Sunderland maintained its
unbeaten home record by defeating Stoke.  Morten Gamst Pedersen 
and  Jason Roberts  had the goals as Blackburn beat Wigan to move
out of relegation places at the bottom of the standings and drop
the Latics into the bottom three.  Brede Hangeland’s header in stoppage time gave Fulham the
home draw with Aston Villa, which got a first-half goal from
Marc Albrighton.  Birmingham got scores from Cameron Jerome and  Liam Ridgewell  to wipe out a two-goal deficit and draw with West Ham.
Frederic Piquionne and Valon Behrami scored for the Hammers, who
remain last in the standings with seven points from 11 games.  Everton rallied to tie at Blackpool and extend its unbeaten
run to six games.  Tim Cahill  and Seamus Coleman scored for the
Toffees, with Neal Eardley and David Vaughn getting the
Blackpool goals.  West Brom hosts Manchester City in tomorrow’s other game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  