-- Tanzania’s Kikwete Is Sworn in for a Second Presidential Term
-- B y   W i l f r e d   M w a k a l o s i
-- 2010-11-06T12:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/tanzania-s-kikwete-is-sworn-in-for-a-second-presidential-term.html
Tanzania’s  Jakaya Kikwete  was sworn
in for another five-year term as president of East Africa’s
second-biggest economy following his re-election yesterday with
61 percent of the vote.  The ceremony, at the Uhuru Stadium in the commercial
capital, Dar es Salaam, was attended by regional leaders
including South African President  Jacob Zuma . Kikwete inspected
a guard of honour and Gharib Bilal was sworn in as vice
president.  Wilbrod Slaa of the opposition Chadema party won 26 percent
of the ballots cast, the National Electoral Commission of
Tanzania said. Slaa, Kikwete’s main challenger, had earlier
called for a recount after saying there were variations between
the official results and tallies recorded at polling stations.
The Commission said investigations into the complaint wouldn’t
begin until an official request was registered, the Daily News,
a state-run newspaper, reported Nov. 4.  Kikwete’s support in the election, held on Oct. 31, was
down on the 80 percent he garnered in the previous vote in 2005.
Last weekend’s election was Tanzania’s fourth consecutive
multiparty poll since the end of one-party rule in 1995. Kikwete
won 5.28 million votes to Slaa’s 2.27 million.  Tanzania has a poverty rate of 50 percent that the state
aims to reduce to 30 percent by 2015, according to the
government’s website. Kikwete, 60, has pledged to maintain
fiscal policies to help the country meet its projected economic-
growth rate of 7 percent this year and 7.1 percent in 2011,
compared with 6 percent in 2009.  The country is Africa’s fourth-largest gold exporter after
South Africa, Ghana and Mali. Companies including Barrick Gold
Corp., the world’s largest producer of the precious metal, and
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. have mines in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wilfred Mwakalosi  in Dar es Salaam at 
 wmwakalosi1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 