-- Asia-Pacific Nations Foreswear Devaluations as China Softens Fed Response
-- B y   A k i   I t o ,   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-11-06T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/apec-finance-ministers-pledge-to-avoid-competitive-weakening-of-currencies.html
Asia-Pacific finance ministers backed
the Group of 20’s commitment to avoid competitive exchange-rate
devaluations as China softened its reaction to the Federal
Reserve’s monetary stimulus.  “We will move towards more market-determined exchange rate
systems that reflect underlying economic fundamentals” without
competing to force down currency rates, the 21-member Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation forum ministers said in a statement
yesterday in Kyoto, Japan. The language echoed the G-20 finance
chiefs’ communiqué of Oct. 23.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S. is
committed to a “strong” dollar and won’t use its currency to
gain a competitive advantage, amid concern the Fed’s easing will
drive down its value. China’s Vice Finance Minister  Wang Jun 
said the U.S. move to buy $600 billion of Treasuries is aimed at
boosting growth, helping the global economy, two days after
another official said it risks undermining global confidence.  While the gathering avoided public disagreements over
exchange rates and the impact of the Fed’s decision, the joint
statement broke no new ground in committing nations to shrink
trade and investment imbalances that contributed to the
financial crisis. Geithner said talks on the matter will take
time, and cited an emerging consensus on a framework obligating
countries to avoid excessive current-account imbalances.  Stability Goal  “We’re trying to make sure as the world economy recovers,
that future growth is sustainable and we don’t see reemerge the
kind of excess imbalances on the trade side, either surpluses or
deficits, that could threaten future growth” and stability,
Geithner said at a joint press conference after the meeting.  G-20 leaders meeting Nov. 11-13 in Seoul are set to approve
the framework agreed by the finance ministers and central
bankers in Gyeongju, South Korea, Geithner said. He added that
the challenge of addressing global imbalances dates from the
1940s and “it’s a process that’s going to take some time.”  The Treasury chief added that he’s not seeking specific
targets for current-account deficits or surpluses, after saying
last month that 4 percent of GDP was “likely to emerge as the
basic benchmark countries look to.”  “There had been a lot of resistance to the current-account
targets and the best they are probably going to get is some sort
of global agreement that there is a need to rebalance,” said
 Mitul Kotecha , the Hong Kong-based head of global foreign-
exchange strategy at Credit Agricole CIB.  Fed Repercussions  Ministers discussed the consequences of the Fed’s Nov. 3
decision, ranging from the impact on the U.S. economic recovery
to the potential for the move to depress the dollar and push up
other currencies, Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told
reporters.  “We pay close attention to the U.S. quantitative-easing
policy,” Wang said at the Kyoto news conference. “Quantitative
easing policy that’s aimed at boosting the U.S. economy will
help the revival of the global economy tremendously.”  Chinese officials and economists have offered a range of
comments on the Fed decision. Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai 
said at a press briefing in Beijing two days ago that “many
countries are worried about the impact” and that “it would be
appropriate for someone to step forward and give us an
explanation, otherwise international confidence in the recovery
and growth of the global economy might be hurt.”  China Responses  Xia Bin , an academic adviser to the central bank, said at a
forum in Beijing Nov. 4 that he was worried about the risk of a
Chinese  asset  bubble as the U.S. engaged in “uncontrolled”
money printing. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said
Nov. 5 in Berlin the Fed was “clueless” and the move wouldn’t
stoke growth.  China will continue to monitor reaction to the American
central bank’s strategy, Wang said.  While many countries at the APEC meeting said the Fed’s
policy is leading to challenges, nobody called for an end to the
U.S. easing, a Japanese finance ministry official told reporters
on condition of anonymity in Kyoto after the gathering.  Members of APEC account for more than half of the world’s
total gross domestic product and about 44 percent of global
trade, according to the organization’s website. Asian nations’
currencies have soared this year as the region led the global
recovery and central banks from South Korea to Malaysia to
Taiwan raised interest rates from global-recession lows.  Currency Gains  Thailand’s baht has soared 13 percent against the dollar
this year, Malaysia’s ringgit has risen 11 percent and
Indonesia’s rupiah on Nov. 5 reached its highest level in more
than two years, as did the MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks.  “Net capital flows have returned in a significant volume
to emerging economies of the region, raising the risk of capital
flow volatility and increases in asset prices in some
economies,” the APEC statement said. “Advanced economies are
recovering more slowly.”  Geithner said that exchange-rate appreciation can help cope
with capital inflows, and currency policy is part of the way
faster-growing nations can prevent excessive current-account
surpluses. He also said that private-sector hiring, productivity
and business investment gains and an increase in hiring show the
U.S. has “a very good chance” of continuing to grow and
recover fully from the financial crisis.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  two days ago told college
students in Jacksonville, Florida, that “the best fundamentals
for the dollar will come when the economy is growing strongly.”
Geithner declined to comment on the U.S. monetary policy stance,
saying yesterday the U.S. has an “independent” central bank.  “We will never use our currency as a tool to gain
competitive advantage,” Geithner told reporters yesterday.  About 40 percent of the world’s population lives in APEC
member economies, the biggest of which are the U.S., China and
Japan. Other members are Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Hong
Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea,
Peru, the Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan,
Thailand, and Vietnam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
 Kathleen Chu  in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  