-- Australia to Spend $1 Billion on Improving Irrigation Systems in Victoria
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-06T03:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/australia-to-spend-1-billion-on-improving-irrigation-systems-in-victoria.html
Australia’s federal government will
spend almost A$1 billion ($1 billion) upgrading irrigation
systems in Victoria state as it seeks to help farmers facing
pressure from environmentalists to reduce their water usage.  The money will be spent on the second stage of a project
scheduled to be completed by 2018, according to an e-mailed
statement today. The funding is to support the  Murray River ,
Australia’s longest, which flows through the nation’s most
important agricultural region. Victoria is separately investing
A$1 billion in the first stage, the government said.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is facing calls to cut water
allocations to farmers, which would slash cotton, dairy and rice
production and may raise global cotton prices, as Australia is
the world’s fourth-largest exporter of the commodity.  Gillard’s minority Labor government relies on support from
the Greens Party, which seeks bigger water reductions to protect
the river system and its endangered plants and animals, and
independent lawmakers backed by farmers, who want fewer curbs.  The upgrade “will provide greater water security for
farmers whilst protecting the environment,” today’s statement
said.  Last month, the Murray Darling Basin Authority recommended
cutting water allocations to farmers by 3 trillion to 4 trillion
liters -- the equivalent of eight Sydney Harbors -- in a
district 1 ½ times the size of Texas. The MDBA report said the
proposed water curbs would reduce irrigated cotton crops from
the area by 25 percent.  Water savings from the spending announced today are
expected to total an average of 425 billion liters per year,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  