-- Bernanke Defends Bond Purchases, Predicts Stronger Growth
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-11-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/bernanke-defends-fed-securities-purchases-says-growth-will-support-dollar.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank must focus on the U.S. rather
than overseas economies when trying to spur the recovery by
purchasing an additional $600 billion in Treasuries.  “Our first objective, the first goal that we have, is to
meet our mandate to get price stability and maximum employment
in the United States,” Bernanke said yesterday in response to
questions from college students in Jacksonville, Florida. “A
strong U.S. economy, a recovering economy, is critical not just
for Americans but it’s also critical for the global recovery.”  Bernanke came under fire yesterday from officials in
Germany, China, and Brazil, who said his plan to pump cash into
the banking system may jar other economies and fail to fuel U.S.
growth. Critics including  Michael Burry , the former hedge-fund
manager who predicted the housing market’s plunge, have said Fed
policy is encouraging investors to take on too much risk and
threatens to undermine the dollar.  “It’s our problem as well if the U.S. is no longer certain
that the old recipes don’t work anymore,” German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday in Berlin. The Fed’s
injection of $600 billion was “clueless” and won’t revive
growth, he said.  Brazil’s central bank president,  Henrique Meirelles , said
“excess liquidity” in the U.S. economy is creating “risks for
everyone.” In China, Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  said
“many countries are worried about the impact of the policy on
their economies.” He also said the U.S. “owes us some
explanation on their decision on quantitative easing.”  Best Week  Stocks capped their best week in two months, with the MSCI
World Index and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index up more than 3.4
percent each, after the Fed pledged on Nov. 3 to buy as much as
$600 billion of Treasuries through June to boost the economy.  “We are showing insufficient stimulus,” Bernanke said
yesterday in his remarks, mostly in response to questions. Asset
purchases have “the goal of reducing interest rates, providing
more stimulus to the economy and, we hope, creating a faster
recovery and an inflation rate consistent with long-run
stability,” Bernanke said to students.  An acceleration of U.S. economic growth would support the
value of the U.S. dollar, Bernanke said.  “The best fundamentals for the dollar will come when the
economy is growing strongly,” Bernanke said yesterday. “That
is where the fundamentals come from. We are aware the dollar
plays a special role in the global economy.”  The dollar advanced 1.1 percent to $1.4049 per euro at 3:08
p.m. in New York from $1.4207 yesterday, when it touched $1.4282,
the weakest level since January.  More Easing  Bernanke said additional easing will help the Fed achieve
its two mandates set by Congress for ensuring full employment
and stable prices.  “The unemployment rate, if at all, is coming down very,
very slowly,” Bernanke told students at Jacksonville University.
“Inflation is very, very low, probably below the level that is
healthy for the economy in the longer term.”  Bernanke will have the opportunity to elaborate on his
comments today when he is scheduled to speak to an Atlanta Fed
conference at Jekyll Island, Georgia.  The Fed is purchasing more Treasuries to reduce 9.6 percent
unemployment and keep inflation from slowing. Bernanke is trying
to boost growth after near-zero interest rates and $1.7 trillion
in securities purchases helped pull the economy out of recession
without bringing joblessness down from close to a 26-year high.  Referring to the policy of so-called quantitative easing,
Bernanke said, “we will be reviewing that regularly to see if
it is working, to see how the outlook is changing.”  ‘Dangerous Signs’  The Fed’s support for asset values isn’t helping the
“real” economy, and is creating “dangerous signs of a
potential free fall” in the dollar and will be unsustainable,
Burry said in an interview.  Hedge-fund manager  Barton Biggs  is among those who defended
Bernanke.  “We still are in a very precarious situation,” Biggs, the
managing partner of New York-based Traxis Partners LLC and
former chairman of Morgan Stanley Asset Management, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty
Liu. “The economy could easily tip back into a double dip, and
Bernanke did what he had to do.”  The U.S. added 151,000 jobs last month, Labor Department
figures showed yesterday, exceeding all forecasts in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists. Private payrolls that exclude
government agencies also gained more than forecast, while the
jobless rate held at 9.6 percent.  Rising Prices  Asked by a student if “skyrocketing” commodities prices
may threaten his inflation outlook, Bernanke said rising
commodities prices are “the one exception” to a broad
reduction in inflationary pressures. Overall, excess slack in
the economy will make it difficult for producers to push through
higher prices to consumers, he said.  “Emerging markets are growing quite quickly,” Bernanke
said. “Demand for those commodities is pretty strong. That is
going to be a contributor to inflation in the U.S. because it
will affect gas prices, for example, and so on.”  Asked by a student about rising gold prices and concerns
over inflation, Bernanke said the Fed wouldn’t sacrifice price
stability in an attempt to boost growth.  “Let me be very clear: We are absolutely committed to
keeping inflation low and stable,” he said. “We have the tools
to unwind and tighten policy at the appropriate time. We will
honor both sides of our dual mandate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net 
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  