-- Bernanke Invokes Friedman's Inflation-Fighting Legacy to Defend Stimulus
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2010-11-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/bernanke-says-fed-s-monetary-expansion-won-t-spur-super-normal-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  invoked the inflation-fighting legacy of the late Nobel
laureate economist  Milton Friedman  and, for the third time in as
many days, defended the Fed’s expansion of record stimulus.  Bernanke, speaking yesterday at a conference in Jekyll
Island, Georgia, responded to criticism in an opinion article
this week by  Allan Meltzer , a Fed historian. Meltzer said in the
Wall Street Journal that Friedman, who died in 2006 and
influenced the thinking of Fed officials such as Bernanke,
wouldn’t have supported the central bank’s decision to buy more
assets.  “We are doing everything Milton Friedman would have us
do,” Bernanke said. “What Milton Friedman would say is that
the Federal Reserve is responsible for the stability of nominal
aggregates including prices, and that means that particularly
with respect to inflation, you don’t want inflation to be too
high but you also don’t want it to be too low.”  The Fed chief’s comments extend a defense of the Nov. 3
decision to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June in a bid
to lower unemployment and avert deflation. Officials in Germany,
China and Brazil said his plan to pump cash into the banking
system will jar other economies and fail to fuel U.S. growth,
while U.S. critics including Meltzer say the central bank risks
setting off uncontrollable inflation.  Bernanke, 56, chairman since 2006, said in a Washington
Post opinion article hours after the decision that the central
bank “will take all measures necessary to keep inflation low
and stable.” The Fed lowered the benchmark rate almost to zero
in December 2008 and carried out a $1.7 trillion first round of
asset purchases that ended in March.  Declines Comment  Meltzer, a professor at Carnegie Mellon University in
Pittsburgh, declined to comment about Bernanke’s remarks.  Yesterday, during a panel discussion, Bernanke spoke
alongside his predecessor,  Alan Greenspan , and former New York
Fed President E.  Gerald Corrigan , to an audience including more
than a dozen current and former Fed policy makers. Bernanke
dismissed the idea the central bank will increase inflation
higher than it prefers.  “I have rejected any notion that we are going to raise
inflation to a super-normal level in order to have effects on
the economy,” Bernanke said. “Our credibility must be
maintained,” and “it’s critical for us to maintain inflation
at an appropriate level,” he said.  “Our purpose is to provide additional stimulus to help the
economy recover and to avoid potentially additional disinflation
which I think we all agree would be a worse outcome,” Bernanke
said.  Target Higher Inflation  New York Fed President  William Dudley  and Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  broached the idea in speeches last month
that the Fed could target higher-than-normal inflation
temporarily as a way of trying to aid growth.  On Nov. 5, Bernanke said to students in Jacksonville,
Florida, that the  unconventional policy  will avert a decline in
inflation and spur the U.S. recovery. It has the goal of
reducing borrowing costs, adding stimulus and, “we hope,
creating a faster recovery and an inflation rate consistent with
long-run stability.”  Corrigan, 69, said yesterday that “even in the face of
substantial margins of underutilization of human and capital
resources, efforts to achieve an upward nudge in today’s very
low inflation rate make me somewhat uncomfortable.”  Corrigan was a policy maker under former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , who raised interest rates as high as 20 percent to beat
inflation, pushing the economy into the 1981-82 recession.  Navigate Uncharted Waters  In prepared remarks distributed to attendees, Corrigan said
he has a “very high degree of confidence in the Fed’s ability
to navigate through these uncharted waters” and that his
concern about “low probability contingencies” doesn’t detract
from his “admiration and respect for the Fed and its tradition
of great leaders past and present.”  The Fed’s preferred gauge for consumer prices, which
excludes food and energy costs, rose 1.2 percent in September
from a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2001. Fed policy
makers have a long-run goal of 1.7 percent to 2 percent
inflation that they see as consistent with achieving legislative
mandates for maximum employment and stable prices.  “Much more often than not, the Fed has made mistakes in
erring on the side of too little restraint and too much
inflation,” said  Marvin Goodfriend , a former Richmond Fed
research director who now works with Meltzer as a professor at
Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.  ‘Two-Sided Risks’  Now the Fed faces “some more two-sided risks,” and “when
you approach price stability, sometimes it is warranted to be
worried about too little inflation,” Goodfriend said after the
panel discussion.  Bernanke spoke at a conference on Fed history sponsored by
the Atlanta Fed and Rutgers University at the site of a secret
1910 meeting in which a senator and several bankers devised a
plan which would provide some of the elements of the  Federal
Reserve Act  signed in 1913.  Former Minneapolis Fed President  Gary Stern  said he would
have supported the Fed’s asset purchases.  “I would have voted in favor of it mainly because I think
it’s worth a try and might have marginally positive effects on
the rate of growth of the economy and unemployment,” Stern said
Nov. 5 in a Bloomberg Radio interview at the conference. He
retired from the Fed in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Jekyll Island, Georgia at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Matthews  in Jekyll Island, Georgia at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  