-- Corrigan Says He’s ‘Uncomfortable’ With Fed’s Inflation Effort
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-11-06T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/corrigan-says-he-s-uncomfortable-with-fed-s-inflation-effort.html
E.  Gerald Corrigan , former Federal
Reserve Bank of New York president, said he’s concerned that the
central bank’s effort to boost inflation by expanding stimulus
risks causing price increases out of the Fed’s control.  “Even in the face of substantial margins of
underutilization of human and capital resources, efforts to
achieve an upward nudge in today’s very low inflation rate make
me somewhat uncomfortable,” Corrigan, chairman of Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s bank subsidiary, said in prepared remarks at a Fed
conference on Jekyll Island, Georgia.  Corrigan was scheduled to deliver the comments on a panel
discussion today alongside Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his
predecessor,  Alan Greenspan . Corrigan, 69, was a policy maker
under former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , who raised  interest
rates  as high as 20 percent to beat inflation, pushing the
economy into the 1981-82 recession.  “There is a risk -- however small -- that once that nudge
takes hold, it may not be easy to cap inflation and inflationary
expectations at levels that are still broadly compatible with
price stability,” said Corrigan, who headed the New York Fed,
the central bank’s liaison with Wall Street, from 1985 to 1993.  The New York Fed is the only one of the 12 regional Fed
banks that votes at every monetary-policy meeting. The Jekyll
Island conference is co-sponsored by the Atlanta Fed and Rutgers
University.  $600 Billion  The Fed decided Nov. 3 to purchase $600 billion of
Treasuries in a bid to lower  unemployment  and avert deflation,
adding stimulus to near-zero interest rates and the $1.7
trillion of asset purchases through March of this year. The
central bank said it took the action “to promote a stronger
pace of economic recovery and to help ensure that inflation,
over time, is at levels consistent with its mandate.”  The Fed’s preferred gauge for consumer prices, which
excludes food and energy, rose 1.2 percent in September from a
year earlier, the slowest pace since 2001. Fed policy makers
have a long-run goal of 1.7 percent to 2 percent inflation they
see as consistent with achieving legislative mandates for
maximum employment and stable prices.  Corrigan said he has a “very high degree of confidence in
the Fed’s ability to navigate through these uncharted waters”
and that his concern about “low probability contingencies”
doesn’t detract from his “admiration and respect for the Fed
and its tradition of great leaders past and present.”  ‘More Acute’  “I believe that the policy dilemmas faced by the Fed today
are more acute than at any point in the 40-plus years that I
have been a participant in, or a close observer of, the monetary
policy process,” said Corrigan, who also served as president of
the  Minneapolis Fed .  Bernanke, 56, chairman since 2006, said in a Washington
Post opinion article following this week’s decision that the
central bank “will take all measures necessary to keep
inflation low and stable.”  Corrigan, in his prepared text, said monetary policy “is
not a panacea for all of our economic and financial ills” and
that “when the risk of a policy miscalculation is high in
either direction, the prudent course of action should be to
proceed slowly.” The Fed will have a “challenging” transition
back to a “more ‘normal’ monetary policy” once the economy
improves, he said.  At the same time, the “underlying resiliency of the U.S.
economy should not be underestimated,” said Corrigan, who
joined Goldman Sachs in 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Jekyll Island, Georgia, at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  