-- Dollar Drops Most in Four Weeks as Fed to Pump Money into Financial System
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-11-06T04:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/dollar-drops-most-in-four-weeks-as-fed-to-pump-money-into-financial-system.html
The  dollar  fell the most in four
weeks against the currencies of six major trading partners after
the Federal Reserve said it will pump more money into the U.S.
financial system to spur inflation and employment.  The greenback slid versus 15 of its 16 major counterparts
after the Fed said it will buy $600 billion of U.S. Treasuries
through June. It pared losses after data yesterday showed
payrolls grew more than forecast. The Australian and Canadian
currencies reached parity with the dollar as investor appetite
for higher-yielding assets rose before leaders of the Group of
20 nations discuss currency policy in Seoul next week.  “The global market dynamic is still supporting dollar
weakness,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a currency strategist at Bank of
Nova Scotia in Toronto, Canada’s third-largest lender. “The
Federal Reserve’s statement may be favorable for the U.S.
economy, but it’s unfavorable for the U.S. dollar.”  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the dollar against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro and yen, slid 0.9 percent to
76.548, from 77.266 on Oct. 29, in the biggest weekly loss since
Oct. 8. It touched 75.631 on Nov. 4, the lowest level since Dec.
8, 2009.  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said Nov.
3 it will buy about $75 billion a month in Treasuries through
mid-2011 in a strategy called quantitative easing. The Bank of
Japan left monetary policy unchanged this week, keeping its
interest rates the lowest in the world, as the yen fell versus
all 16 major currencies.  European Exit Strategy  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled Nov. 4 policy makers aim to pursue their strategy to
end emergency stimulus, sending the euro to a nine-month high
against the dollar and a one-month high versus the yen.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday an acceleration
in U.S. economic growth would support the value of the U.S.
dollar compared with other currencies. The Fed’s asset-purchase
plan is targeted at bringing about a more rapid U.S. recovery,
he said in response to questions from college students in
Jacksonville, Florida.  “The best fundamentals for the dollar will come when the
economy is growing strongly,” Bernanke said. “A strong U.S.
economy is critical not just for Americans but for a global
recovery,” he added.  The dollar fell the most in four weeks against the euro,
depreciating 0.6 percent to $1.4032, from $1.3947 on Oct. 29. It
touched $1.4282 on Nov. 4, the weakest since Jan. 20.  The greenback climbed 1.1 percent to 81.26 yen, gaining for
the first time in seven weeks, even as it touched a 15-year low
versus the Japanese currency, 80.22 yen, on Nov. 1. The yen
weakened 1.7 percent, its biggest weekly drop since mid-
September, to 114.03 per euro, from 112.12 on Oct. 29.  Budget Deficits  The euro gave back gains yesterday as weak economic data
revived concern that so-called peripheral countries will
struggle to plug budget deficits. Data showed retail sales in
the euro region fell 0.2 percent in September and the Spanish
economy stagnated in the third quarter.  The U.S. currency rose yesterday after data showed U.S.
employers hired more workers than forecast in October,
increasing payrolls for the first time since May. The economy
added 151,000 jobs, Labor Department figures showed, compared
with the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey for a
60,000-position gain. The jobless rate held at 9.6 percent.  ‘More Room to Decline’  “The dollar probably hasn’t found the bottom yet,” said
 Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in Washington at Commonwealth
Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage. “The Australian
dollar, the kiwi, emerging-market currencies, higher-yielding
currencies in general: the dollar still has more room to decline
against that group.”  Australia’s dollar closed above parity with the greenback
for three straight days as investors bet the nation will
increase interest rates after the U.S. left borrowing costs near
zero. It climbed 3.3 percent for the week, the most since July,
to $1.0159. The New Zealand dollar, called the kiwi, climbed 3.8
percent, the most since May 2009, to 79.55 U.S. cents.  The Canadian dollar was worth more than its U.S.
counterpart yesterday for the first time since Oct. 14 after
reports showing that each of the nations’ economies added jobs
last month bolstered global growth optimism. The currency gained
1.9 percent, the biggest weekly jump in three months, to
C$1.0001 per U.S. dollar.  China said the Fed needs to further explain its decision to
pump money into the world’s biggest economy or risk undermining
the global recovery.  ‘Many Countries’ Worried  “Many countries are worried about the impact of the policy
on their economies,” Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  said at
a press briefing in Beijing yesterday in remarks that echoed
concerns raised across Asia as countries brace themselves for
stronger currencies.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said he expects Group
of 20 leaders including the Chinese to agree on “guidelines”
for currency policy when they meet in Seoul on Nov. 11-12.  “I believe leaders will be able to reach some kind of
agreement,” Lee told reporters in Seoul. “I expect positive
cooperation from President  Hu Jintao  at the leaders’ summit.”
Hu is China’s president.  The G-20 summit may be the biggest driver in the currency
market next week because there are no important economic reports
being released, said  Win Thin , a senior currency strategist at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  