-- European Stocks Gain as Fed Stimulus Plan Offsets Debt Repayment Concerns
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-11-06T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/european-stocks-gain-as-fed-stimulus-plan-offsets-debt-repayment-concerns.html
European stocks  rose to a six-month
high this week as the Federal Reserve announced another round of
bond purchases to boost the economy, offsetting renewed concern
that some European countries won’t be able to repay their debts.  Xstrata Plc  led basic-resources stocks higher, rising 15
percent. HeidelbergCement AG, Coloplast A/S, and Lundin
Petroleum AB jumped after posting results that beat analysts’
estimates.  Bank of Ireland Plc  tumbled 18 percent as the cost of
insuring Irish sovereign debt surged to a record.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 2.3 percent to 271.97 this
week, the biggest gain in two months. The measure has rallied 17
percent since its 2010 low in May, closing the week at the
highest level since April 15, amid better-than-estimated
earnings and speculation policymakers in the U.S. and elsewhere
will step up efforts to bolster the recovery including buying
securities with newly created money, a tactic known as
quantitative easing.  “While QE2 was broadly in line with expectations what may
have given financial markets further encouragement was the tone
of the statement as the Fed kept the flexibility to amend the
asset purchase program,”  Jim Reid  and  Nick Burns , London-based
strategists at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a note. “We still
have deep reservations as to how successful they’ll be in the
medium-term but to a liquidity hungry market these were dovish
comments.”  Expanding Stimulus  The Fed will buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries
through June, expanding record stimulus and risking its
credibility in a bid to reduce unemployment and avert deflation.  Policy makers, setting a pace of about $75 billion of
purchases a month, “will adjust the program as needed,” the
Fed’s Open Market Committee said in a statement in Washington on
Nov. 3. The central bank left unchanged its pledge to keep
interest rates low for an “extended period” after Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said it could be modified in some way.  Payrolls in the U.S. rose more than forecast in October, a
sign businesses may be starting to gain confidence in the
prospects for a faster pace of growth. Payrolls climbed 151,000,
exceeding all estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of economists
and following a revised 41,000 drop the prior month that was
smaller than initially estimated, Labor Department figures
showed yesterday in Washington. Private payrolls also gained
more than forecast, while the jobless rate held at 9.6 percent.  Miners, Cement  National benchmark indexes rose in 13 out of 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX Index gained 2.3 percent, while
the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index  increased 3.5 percent. France’s CAC 40
Index advanced 2.2 percent.  Spain’s IBEX 35 led declining indexes, falling 3.6 percent,
while Greece’s ASE Index lost 2.6 percent and Portugal’s PSI-20
Index fell 2 percent.  Basic-resources stocks were the best-performing industry in
Europe this week, as metal prices advanced. Xstrata, the world’s
fourth-largest copper producer, gained 15 percent as copper
reached a 28-month high.  Fresnillo Plc, a silver and gold producer, gained 13
percent.  Kazakhmys Plc , Kazakhstan’s biggest copper producer,
increased 14 percent. ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest
steelmaker, surged 11 percent.  HeidelbergCement, the world’s third-largest maker of cement
and concrete, rose 11 percent as third-quarter profit beat
estimates. Net income rose to 322 million euros ($452.6 million)
from 149 million euros a year earlier, while sales increased 13
percent to 3.4 billion euros.  Ireland’s  CRH Plc  rallied 10 percent.  Coloplast, Lundin  Coloplast, the world’s largest maker of ostomy and urology
products, surged 16 percent. Fourth-quarter net income of 368
million kroner ($69.4 million) exceeded the 345 million-krone
average analyst estimate.  Lundin Petroleum climbed 11 percent after Sweden’s largest
oil explorer reported net income of $26.6 million. Analysts had
predicted net income of $21.8 million, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG  gained 13 percent as Germany’s
biggest private broadcaster reported better-than-estimated
third-quarter results on higher advertising revenue.  About 67 percent of the companies in the Stoxx 600 that
have announced results since Oct. 7 have beaten analysts’
estimates for net income, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Irish Debt  Bank of Ireland was the  worst performer  in the Stoxx 600
Index, dropping 20 percent. Irish Life & Permanent Plc tumbled
31 percent and Allied Irish Banks Plc lost 20 percent.  Ireland led a surge in the cost of insuring European
sovereign debt as the government struggles to convince investors
it can avert a European Union-led bailout. Credit-default swaps
on Ireland rose to an all-time high, according to data provider
CMA, while the Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index rose to a
record.  “Clearly the plight of European peripheral sovereigns is
once again becoming a key focus for financial markets,” Reid
and Burns wrote.  Piraeus Bank SA  sank 12 percent. The financial performance
and risk profile of Greece’s four biggest lenders will largely
depend on developments in Greece’s sovereign debt rating, Fitch
Ratings said.  Alpha Bank AE dropped 5.3 percent. EFG Eurobank Ergasias
declined 7.2 percent.  National Bank of Greece SA  fell 6 percent.  Italy’s Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA dropped 8
percent and Spain’s  Banco Santander SA  sank 7.9 percent.  Bwin, Alcatel-Lucent  Gambling companies Bwin Interactive Entertainment AG and
PartyGaming Plc dropped 6.7 percent and 8.3 percent,
respectively as Barclays Plc downgraded the shares to
“underweight” from “overweight.” The shares recouped some
losses after saying that their proposed merger is “on track”
to complete in the first quarter of 2011.   Alcatel-Lucent SA  paced a retreat in technology shares,
dropping 6.9 percent, as France’s largest telecommunications
equipment maker reported an operating margin in the third
quarter below some analysts’ forecasts.  Next Plc led retailers lower, falling 6.5 percent, as the
U.K.’s second-biggest clothing retailer forecast a “tougher”
end to the year after a sales decline worsened in the third
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 