-- Mexican Violence May Escalate After Accused Drug Leader Killed in Shootout
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 2010-11-06T19:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/mexican-violence-may-escalate-after-accused-drug-leader-killed-in-shootout.html
Mexican marines killed an alleged
drug cartel leader known as “Tony the Storm,” a move that may
cause violence to intensify in northeastern Mexico as drug gangs
fight over shipping routes to the U.S.  Antonio Ezequiel Cardenas Guillen, 48, was killed during a
two-hour gunfight yesterday in Matamoros’s city center,
according to a Mexican Navy  statement . The navy, which sent 660
marines to the scene, said the shooting began when they went to
arrest Cardenas. Four other alleged drug traffickers and three
soldiers died in the battle, the Navy reported.  Killings have risen this year in northeastern Mexican
states such as Nuevo Leon, home to the industrial city of
Monterrey, and Tamaulipas, where Matamoros is, as Mexican
security forces attack organized crime and drug smugglers fight
amongst themselves.  Antonio Ezequiel Cardenas, the brother of convicted drug
trafficker Osiel Cardenas Guillen, was linked with the Gulf
Cartel. The group has traditionally controlled drug-smuggling
routes along the Gulf of Mexico and into the Eastern U.S., said
 Jorge Chabat , a political science professor at the Center for
Economic Research & Teaching in Mexico City.  “This weakens the Gulf Cartel,” Chabat said in a
telephone interview today. He said the cartel has been engaged
in a territory battle with a group of former allies known as the
Zetas.  Sought-After Routes  While the killing is an “important blow,” he predicted
the Zetas may attempt to expand their influence in the region.  “These are very sought-after routes, and certainly,
there’s going to be an increase in fights to control this
territory,” he said.  Homicides have risen 35 percent to 1,796 year to date in
Tamaulipas and Nuevo Leon, where the Gulf Cartel and the Zetas
have been fighting for territory, according to data from
Mexico’s Interior Ministry. Nationwide, drug-related killings
have exceeded 28,000 since December 2006, when President  Felipe Calderon  took office and deployed troops to quell organized
crime.  Antonio Ezequiel Cardenas was one of three alleged Gulf
Cartel leaders indicted by the U.S. District Court in the
District of Colombia in 2008 on charges he conspired to import
drugs into the U.S., according to information on the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Administration’s  website .  Extortion, Migrant Trafficking  He also was involved in kidnapping, extortion and migrant
trafficking, according to the Mexican Navy statement. He was a
native of Matamoros, the statement said.  Antonio Ezequiel’s brother Osiel Cardenas led the Gulf
Cartel until 2003, when he was captured by the Mexican military
and subsequently deported to the U.S. Osiel was sentenced to 25
years in prison and ordered to forfeit $50 million on Feb. 24 by
a U.S. District Court, according to the  Dallas Morning News .  Drug-related violence has intensified this year even as
Calderon’s government has captured and killed top drug
traffickers this year, including members of the Beltran Leyva
organization and the Sinaloa Cartel.  Mexico’s most powerful drug trafficking organizations
include the Sinaloa Cartel, based in the Pacific state of the
same name, and the Juarez Cartel, based in the border city of
Ciudad Juarez, Chabat said, along with the Zetas and Gulf
Cartel, which operate mainly along the Gulf of Mexico.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Roeder  in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  