-- Fresh Market Shares Rally as U.S. Initial Public Offerings Extend Rebound
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-11-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/fresh-market-shares-rally-as-u-s-initial-public-offerings-extend-rebound.html
Fresh Market Inc. , the Greensboro,
North Carolina-based grocery chain, posted this year’s second-
biggest first-day gain for an initial public offering by a U.S.
company as the IPO market extended its rebound.  Fresh Market surged  46 percent  to $32.11 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading yesterday after selling 13.2 million shares for
$22 each, $2 above the forecast price range, data compiled by
Bloomberg and a Securities and Exchange Commission  filing  show.  The offering was the largest of six U.S. initial sales this
week and the latest sign the market has recovered after 55
companies withdrew or postponed IPOs this year. Twenty-one
companies completed deals in October, the most in almost three
years, while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed to a two-
year high yesterday on optimism the economy has stabilized after
the longest recession since the Great Depression.  “The sun’s coming out for IPOs as investors have tended to
take the possibility of a double-dip off the table,” said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at Chicago-based Harris Private
Bank, which oversees about $55 billion. “Anyone who buys an IPO
has to have some hope and optimism, and we’re starting to see
investor attitudes reflect that.”  Vera Bradley Inc. , the Fort Wayne, Indiana-based maker of
women’s handbags, posted the biggest first-day gain for a U.S.
company that completed an IPO this year, climbing 55 percent on
Oct. 21.  ChinaCache International Holdings Ltd. , the Beijing-
based provider of Internet content to businesses, had the
largest first-day rally on New York exchanges this year, surging
95 percent on Oct. 1, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  At the middle of the IPO’s forecast price range, Fresh
Market would have been valued at 16.4 times net assets,
according to IPOdesktop.com in Marina del Rey, California.  That’s almost six times higher than the ratio of 2.9 for
Austin, Texas-based  Whole Foods Market Inc. , which Fresh Market
identified as a competitor in its regulatory filing. Both
grocery chains were valued at 25 times estimated earnings,
according to IPOdesktop.com.  Fresh Market’s  profit increased 45 percent to $41.1 million
in the first nine months of the year, from $28.4 million in the
year-earlier period, according to its SEC filing.  Whole Foods , the largest U.S. natural-goods grocer, surged
the most in 15 months on Nov. 4 after its fiscal fourth-quarter
earnings doubled and the company raised its profit forecast.  Exclamation Point  “There’s good demand in this particular area,” said  Scott Billeadeau , who helps oversee $18 billion at Fifth Third Asset
Management in Minneapolis. The earnings from Whole Foods “put
an exclamation point on that,” he said.  U.S. payrolls climbed by 151,000 last month, a government
report showed yesterday, exceeding the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The data and the Federal
Reserve’s pledge on Nov. 3 to buy as much as $600 billion of
Treasuries in a second round of quantitative easing helped push
the  S&P 500  to its best week in two months.  Fresh Market was the first American company to complete an
IPO this week after four offerings from companies based in
China, Israel and Greece. Non-U.S. companies account for five of
the ten best-performing IPOs on New York exchanges this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Eight companies are seeking to raise a combined $855
million next week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That would
be the most sales since the week ended April 23. Five are
planning to offer shares Nov. 9, the busiest day since April 21.  Next Week’s Offerings  Richmond Honan Medical Properties Inc. , an Atlanta-based
developer of medical-office buildings that plans to become a
real estate investment trust, is seeking $293 million offering
19.5 million shares at $13 to $15 each on Nov. 9 in the week’s
biggest deal. Robert W. Baird & Co. in Milwaukee, Raymond James
Financial Inc. of St. Petersburg, Florida, and Toronto-based
 Royal Bank of Canada  are arranging the IPO, a filing showed.  Complete Genomics Inc.  a Mountain View, California-based
biomedical company, is seeking $84 million the same day.  Wave2Wave Communications Inc. , which sells wireless
networks that let people make telephone calls over the Internet,
will offer 4.44 million shares at $8 to $10. The Hackensack, New
Jersey-based company postponed a $91 million IPO in May.  Noah Holdings Ltd. , the Shanghai-based provider of wealth-
management products in China, plans to sells 8.4 million
American depositary receipts at $9 to $11 apiece on Nov. 9. The
IPO will be led by JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York and Bank of
America Corp. of Charlotte, North Carolina.  Chinese IPOs  RDA Microelectronics Inc. , also based in Shanghai, will
offer 7.5 million ADRs at $8.50 to $10.50 each the same day. The
semiconductor maker backed by Warburg Pincus LLC hired Morgan
Stanley and Credit Suisse Group AG of Zurich to manage the sale.
The IPO will cut the stake of New York-based Warburg Pincus to
56 percent from 68 percent, the SEC filing showed.  Chinese companies have accounted for 13 percent of the
$19.2 billion raised by IPOs in the U.S. this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg that exclude closed-end funds and
investment companies.  The two best-performing IPOs this year are from mainland
companies.  JinkoSolar Holding Co. , the maker of silicon wafers
in China’s Jiangxi province, has gained 227 percent since its
May listing.  HiSoft Technology International Ltd. , the Dalian,
China-based company that helps businesses outsource software
development, has risen 180 percent.  China’s economy will expand 9.6 percent next year,
according to the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .
U.S. growth will slow to 2.3 percent, the estimates show.  Asia’s IPO Share  Demand for offerings from Chinese companies has helped push
the amount raised through Asian IPOs to more than $140 billion
this year, the most on record, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The U.S. share of global initial sales dwindled to a record low
of 11 percent last month, the data show.  “Investors are going crazy about those Chinese ADR IPOs in
the U.S.,” said  Ivo Kovachev , a senior emerging-markets money
manager in London at JO Hambro Capital Management Ltd., which
oversees about $6.3 billion. “Every week or so you see some
deal jumping up by a huge percentage on the first day.”  Ikaria Inc. , the Clinton, New Jersey-based developer of
respiratory treatments, will sell 10 million shares at $15 to
$17 apiece on Nov. 10. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan
Stanley of New York are managing the sale.  Inphi Corp. , a Santa Clara, California-based semiconductor
company, will sell 6.8 million shares at $10 to $12 each the
same day. Morgan Stanley, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG and
Jefferies Group are arranging the IPO.  Lizhan Environmental Corp. , a manufacturer of synthetic
leather from recycled leather waste, may also sell stock next
week. The Tongxiang, China-based company is planning to offer
1.82 million shares at $5 to $6 each, an SEC filing showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 