-- GCC May Need to Withdraw Stimulus in 2011 on Rising Inflation, IMF Says
-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-11-06T14:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/gcc-economic-outlook-has-improved-considerably-aided-by-oil-imf-says.html
The Gulf Cooperation Council nations
may need to withdraw economic stimulus if inflation continues to
accelerate in 2011, the International Monetary Fund said.  “In some countries we are seeing early signs of a pickup
in inflation,”  John Lipsky , first deputy managing director of
the IMF, told a meeting of GCC finance ministers and central
bank governors in Kuwait City today. “If sustained, this may
call for a withdrawal of stimulus as early as 2011.”  Most Gulf states slashed interest rates while some embarked
on fiscal stimulus measures to boost their economies following
the worst global recession since the 1930s. Saudi Arabia, the
Arab world’s largest economy, which had seven consecutive months
of accelerating inflation until September, announced a $400
billion spending program in 2008, the biggest in the Group of 20
nations as a percentage of gross domestic product.  Four of the six GCC states are working toward a single
currency to harmonize their economies and allow the bloc to have
more independent monetary policy. The euro crisis has led policy
makers to evaluate the process of monetary union, though this
won’t necessarily translate into a delay in establishing a
single currency, according to the IMF.  The IMF said Oct. 6 that economic growth in the Middle East
and North Africa region may accelerate to 5.1 percent next year
as oil prices rise.  The economic outlook of the countries in the GCC has
“improved considerably,” Lipsky said today, adding the group
has the short-term challenge of supporting a revival in credit
growth.  “The fundamentals to address this challenge have been
improved as considerable progress has been made in financial and
corporate restructuring in 2010, helping shore up confidence,”
Lipsky said.  Dubai World  State-owned Dubai World’s announcement last year that it
planned to restructure debts, following defaults by two Saudi
Arabian companies, forced banks to curtail lending and disrupted
bond sales across the Middle East.  The United Arab Emirates’ central bank bought half of the
unsecured $20 billion in five-year notes issued at an annual
interest rate of 4 percent in February 2009 to support Dubai on
concern the emirate would struggle to repay its debt. The U.A.E.
central bank cut its benchmark repurchase rate to 1 percent,
while Abu Dhabi and the federal government lent $20 billion to
Dubai last year.  Long-term challenges include the need “to enhance
supervision, macro-prudential policy tools, liquidity management
and resolution frameworks for banks and nonbanks, and to reduce
the dependence on name-lending," said Lipsky. Name-lending is
the extension of credit based primarily on reputation.  ‘‘Creditor rights and court enforceability should be
clarified and disclosure standards strengthened’’ to meet the
rising demand for sukuk, or Islamic bonds, Lipsky added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Kuwait through the Abu Dhabi newsroom at   vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 