-- Geithner Says U.S. Won't Use Dollar to Gain Competitive Advantage in Trade
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-11-06T09:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/geithner-says-u-s-won-t-use-dollar-to-gain-competitive-advantage-in-trade.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S. won’t use the dollar as a trade weapon
and he repeated his support for a “strong dollar” that plays a
central role in the global economy.  “We will never use our currency as a tool to gain
competitive advantage,” Geithner told reporters today after a
meeting of finance ministers from the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation group in Kyoto, Japan.  The Treasury chief said he believes the dollar, euro and
yen are roughly in alignment with each other, and he said
American policy makers understand the “special responsibility”
the U.S. has for the world economy. “I’m happy to reaffirm
again that a strong dollar’s in our interest as a country,”
Geithner said.  Officials in China, Germany and Brazil this week criticized
the Federal Reserve’s plan to pump $600 billion into the U.S.
economy, saying it may hurt other economies without helping the
U.S. grow again. Critics including Michael Burry, the former
hedge-fund manager who predicted the housing market’s plunge,
have said Fed policy is encouraging investors to take on too
much risk and threatens to undermine the dollar.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday told college
students in Jacksonville, Florida, that “the best fundamentals
for the dollar will come when the economy is growing strongly.”
Geithner declined to comment on the U.S. monetary policy stance,
saying today the U.S. has an “independent” central bank.  Gains in Hiring  Geithner said the U.S. economy is benefitting from gains in
private-sector hiring, productivity and business investment.
These trends, along with a Labor Department report yesterday
showing that the U.S. economy added 151,000 jobs last month,
show that the U.S. has “a very good chance” of continuing to
grow and to recover fully from the financial crisis, he said.  Major emerging market economies “are in the early stages
of a very long period of very strong growth in productivity and
living standards -- that’s a very encouraging thing for the
world,” the U.S. Treasury chief said. He said this growth,
particularly compared with slower growth in the U.S., Japan and
Europe, mean these emerging market nations can expect capital
investment to continue.  “You can have too much of a good thing, but it is
fundamentally an encouraging thing,” Geithner said. “What is
driving the flows of capital you’re seeing into emerging markets
is fundamentally a positive reflection of confidence in the
likely trajectory of growth rates in those countries over time.”  Economic Pressures  Geithner said international efforts to rein in trade
surpluses and deficits need to be sensitive to the economic and
political pressures facing emerging-market nations in the midst
of this growth. At the same time, he said these trends give
countries incentive to allow currency appreciation.  Fast-growing developing nations recognize it’s important
for exchange rates to move in line with economic fundamentals,
“because if you don’t those pressures don’t go away, they’ll
just end up somewhere else, in the risk of higher inflation,
higher asset price bubbles and greater risk to the
sustainability of growth,” Geithner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Kyoto on 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  