-- IMF Approves China as Third-Biggest Power, Weakening Influence of Europe
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-11-06T00:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/imf-approves-china-as-third-biggest-power-weakening-influence-of-europe.html
The International Monetary Fund’s
executive board approved  a plan  that would make China the third-
strongest voice in the organization while weakening Europe’s
influence to make room for emerging economies.  Acting on an Oct. 23 deal by finance chiefs of the Group of
20 nations, the IMF agreed to shift more than 6 percent of
voting rights to what officials called “dynamic” developing
countries. That would give more say to nations such as Brazil
and South Korea, while decreasing the clout of European members
including Belgium and Germany. “Advanced” European countries
are also set to give up two seats on the board under the package.  “We catch up with the reality,” IMF Managing Director
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn  told reporters at a news briefing in
Washington today, calling the agreement historical. “The
ranking of the countries is really the ranking they have in the
global economy.”  The plan now requires the approval of an 85 percent 
majority of the 187 members’ votes and most countries will then 
need to go through a legislative process to enable the changes.  The aim is to make the 65-year-old institution a better
reflection of a world economy that was pulled out of the
recession and is still being driven by growth in emerging
markets. The planned changes come at a time when the IMF has
been asked to help  the G-20  monitor global trade imbalances and
exchange rates amid tensions between its members over whose
policies are most hurtful to a balanced global recovery.  Increased Responsibilities  Officials including U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Strauss-Kahn have tried to link access to bigger
clout at the IMF to increased “responsibilities” in the global
economy, a hint at China to accelerate its currency’s
appreciation. China has said it’s done enough to deserve more
say.  While the governance package is “a big moment” in the
history of the fund, it’s unlikely to prompt China, which moved
from the sixth rank, to adopt a different stance on the yuan,
said Bessma Momani, a professor at the University of Waterloo’s
political science department in Canada.  “For people to expect the Chinese to somehow switch gears
and become very vocal at the IMF because of its increase in
political weight there is very premature,” she said.  After the changes take effect, the fund’s 10 biggest
shareholders will comprise the U.S., Japan, Germany, the U.K,
France and Italy as well as Brazil, Russia, India and China. A
smaller shift in voting rights of 2008 has still not been
implemented.  Months of Negotiations  The agreement ends months of negotiations that saw the U.S.,
Europe and some emerging nations at loggerheads over who should
give up power. It also closes a debate unexpectedly forced by
the U.S. in August of which countries should sit on the
institution’s board of directors, which will now permanently
have 24 chairs.  The developed European nations’ plan on how to give up two
seats is not yet agreed on, though it will probably be based on
having some European countries take turns at the board with
emerging economies, according to two European officials who
spoke on conditions of anonymity. Turkey and Poland may benefit
from the changes, the officials said.  The shift in voting shares will take place through a
general increase of  quotas , which also determine members’
financial commitment to the fund and access to loans. That means
the IMF’s permanent resources will be doubled to about $750
billion, mostly by shifting countries’ contribution from an
emergency pool, according to the G-20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  