-- Immelt Bets on Energy, Health to Drive GE's $10 Billion India Sales Goal
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   S t e p h e n   F o x w e l l
-- 2010-11-06T14:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/immelt-bets-on-energy-health-to-drive-ge-s-10-billion-india-sales-goal.html
General Electric Co. , whose equipment
generates about one-third of the world’s power, expects energy
and health care to drive revenue in India to a $10 billion goal
in five years, Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said.  GE India is expanding at 30 percent annually, Immelt said
in an interview in Mumbai today. “The country has a massive
energy deficit,” he said. “They’re going to invest in a whole
range of different technologies and GE is going to be able to
participate in most of them.”  Immelt is among chief executives who met with President
 Barack Obama  in India today as the U.S. leader seeks to double
exports in the next five years.  GE  is adding U.S. jobs in
businesses from power-plant turbines to jet engines and
appliances as Immelt targets sales to emerging markets including
India, China, Brazil and the Middle East for growth.  To expand in India, GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut,
would look to acquire $50 million companies, Immelt said.  “We should be doing more acquisitions here,” said Immelt,
who became CEO in September 2001. “We would rather acquire a
small or medium-size company than a big company because we can
use our scale to make the small company a big company.”  Winning Orders  Last month, GE won a $750 million turbine order from
 Reliance Power Ltd. , days before the Mumbai-based company
awarded  Shanghai Electric Group Co.  a $10 billion power
generation equipment contract and signed a $12 billion financing
agreement with Chinese banks.  Immelt said the choice for power companies was between
opting for gas as a fuel or coal. “We’ve got better
technologies; we’ve got a better cost competition. This is just
a choice of which fuel you’re going to buy,” he said.  Last month, GE was selected to provide engines for the
Tejas light combat aircraft to the Indian Aeronautical
Development Agency, the White House Press Office said in a
release today. The deal is valued at about $822 million and will
support 4,400 jobs, it said.  GE now gets about 55 percent of its sales from outside the
U.S., according to Immelt. That compares with about 45 percent
in 2005.  Immelt, 54, told Business Today magazine in October that
India should be at least a $10 billion market for GE by 2015.
The company last year had $2.6 billion of revenue in India,
where the economy is forecast to grow at 8.5 percent for the
year ending March.  Double Exports  Obama has said he wants to double U.S. exports to more than
$2 trillion in five years, targeting emerging nations including
India. “It’s the right aspiration,” Immelt said of the
president’s goal. “We’ve done it in the last five years, as a
company,” he said.  “If you think of Germany as a model, 35 percent of the
German GDP is exports,” Immelt said. “It’s 7 percent in the US.
That’s way too low. If we can double from 7 percent to 15
percent, that’s very achievable.”  In India, Immelt said he would like “more clarity around
policy and more speed in the government.” He declined to
comment on specific policies. “There’s enough capital”
available for India’s market, he said.  India has targeted spending $1 trillion building roads,
ports and utilities from 2012 to 2017. “We’re the world’s
biggest infrastructure company so as countries invest in
infrastructure that’s where our markets will be,” said Immelt,
an MBA graduate from Harvard Business School. “If there’s $1
trillion invested in infrastructure, GE’s going to be very big
in India.”  Consolidated Business  Immelt last year consolidated all of GE’s India business
lines under one executive, John Flannery, to develop products
for the country within its borders, as well as some for export.  GE has more than 12,000 employees in India across its
business lines. That includes about 4,000 scientists at the
Bangalore research center, one of four across the globe.
Flannery reports to GE Vice Chairman  John Krenicki , who oversees
the energy businesses. GE had 304,000  employees  worldwide at the
end of 2009.  GE, along with Alstom SA, Bombardier Inc. and  Siemens AG 
have been shortlisted as possible partners in a train-making
venture of Indian Railways, the state-owned rail operator. The
government in October delayed bidding for the project for
another month.  “We’ve been hoping to bid on the modernization of the rail
sector for 10 years,” Immelt said, speaking a day after the
country’s festival of lights. “If we ever do get a chance to
bid on locomotives in India, this will be my Diwali, even if we
don’t win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Foxwell  at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  