-- Gimelstob's New York Marathon Wager Helps Organizers Raise $26.2 Million
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2010-11-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/justin-gimelstob-s-marathon-wager-helps-organizers-raise-26-2-million.html
Justin Gimelstob  spent much of a 12-
year pro tennis career pushing his body diving for shots, and
viewed it as just another challenge when friend and 2003 U.S.
Open champion  Andy Roddick  bet $10,000 for charity that he
couldn’t finish the  New York City Marathon .  To win, the 33-year-old Gimelstob must complete tomorrow’s
race, which winds 26.2 miles from Staten Island to Central Park,
in 4 hours, 45 minutes or less. The loser pays $10,000 to the
victor’s charity -- the  Justin Gimelstob Children’s Fund  for
pediatric cancer or the Andy Roddick Foundation for at-risk
youth.  That donation will be just a portion of the amount
Gimelstob plans to contribute to what the race-organizing New
York Road Runners say is the most philanthropic annual sports
event in the U.S., producing $26.2 million. Through sponsorships
and fundraising, Gimelstob’s eight-person team will try to
gather an additional $20,000-$30,000 for his foundation and the
organizer’s youth programs.  “At the time I did not think the bet would take on this
type of magnitude,” Gimelstob said in a telephone interview.
“It has provided us with a nice opportunity to joke around, but
at the end of the day it’s out raising money for good causes.”  Gimelstob, now a television tennis analyst, was inspired to
run following the sudden death last year of Jeff Wernick, a
close friend and avid runner. When Roddick heard that Gimelstob
wanted to run the marathon in Wernick’s honor, he immediately
expressed doubt. At an ATP World Tour event in Cincinnati in
August, Gimelstob and Roddick set the parameters, including the
4:45 limit.  Non-Runner  Before he took the bet, Gimelstob said, he never had run
more than three miles at once.  Gimelstob must average 10 minutes, 52 seconds a mile. A
4:45 total would have placed him ahead of about 30,000 finishers
in last year’s 43,000-runner race, and more than 2 1/2 hours
behind the winning time of 2:09:15 posted by American  Meb Keflezighi .  “Andy wanted to make sure that cramping, my back going out
or any injury would result in a loss,” Gimelstob said. “It was
a smart move, because I would have crawled on my hands and knees
to win this bet.”  Roddick, the ATP’s ninth-ranked player, declined to comment
on the bet through spokeswoman Erica Quandt.  Keflezighi is defending his title tomorrow against a field
that includes  Haile Gebrselassie  of Ethiopia, the world-record
holder at 2:03:59. Top women entered include Ethiopians  Derartu Tulu , the defending champion, and Teyba Erkesso, who won the
Boston Marathon in April.  Injury List  Gimelstob reached a high ranking of No. 63 in 1999 and
retired in 2007 after a career plagued by back and foot
injuries. The Morristown, New Jersey, native, who won two Grand
Slam mixed doubles titles with  Venus Williams  in 1998, has
received 29 cortisone injections for his degenerative back
disease and has a steel plate in his left foot. Gimelstob said
his father offered him $20,000 not to run, citing concern for
his son’s health.  “That wasn’t hard to turn down because for me it was never
as much about the money as it was about the pride and the
fundraising aspect,” Gimelstob said.  Charity entries for the marathon are required to raise a
minimum of $2,500 for race-affiliated philanthropy, NYRR
spokesman Richard Finn said. Gimelstob’s team, which includes
two-time Grand Slam doubles winner Jonathan Stark, is planning
to raise much more.  “It is impossible to know the exact number until after the
race because so much is tied into pledges and finishing times,”
Gimelstob said. “I would estimate that we will come in between
$20,000 and $30,000 for marathon charities and my own.”  Sponsor Contribution  Gimelstob’s personal sponsors  Nike Inc , closely held  Zico
Coconut Water  and the  St. Giles Hotel  in Manhattan have
contributed as well. Zico is donating $1 to Gimelstob’s charity
for every Facebook fan he attracts before the race. The St.
Giles will host a post-race fundraising party.  There is more athlete philanthropy now than ever, said Greg
Johnson, executive director of the Sports Philanthropy Project
in Washington. He said Gimelstob’s effort is especially
effective because it fills a void.  “Justin is raising money that might not otherwise be
raised, and that’s when you know you are making a difference,”
Johnson said in a telephone interview.  Amani Toomer , the New York Giants’ career leader in
receiving yards and touchdowns, is also running for charity.
Toomer, 33, is starting last and watchmaker Timex Group BV will
donate $1 to the NYRR youth programs for each runner he passes.  ‘Helping Others’  “Every athlete should be giving to charity,” Toomer, who
is aiming to raise $20,000, said in a telephone interview. “The
celebrity doesn’t really mean anything unless you are helping
others.”  The New York City Marathon’s charity program began in 2006,
with 14 groups raising $11.2 million. This year, 7,400 runners
for 190 charities are expected to raise $1 million a mile,
producing a total above any other sports event in America,
according to NYRR President  Mary Wittenberg . Johnson said it
would be the most from a single-day event.  “It’s great for us to have celebrities running because it
raises the awareness of the race and the charities,” Wittenberg
said in a telephone interview. “In Justin and Andy’s case, what
the bet has done is make a lot of people think, ‘We should have
a bet on our race and do it for charity too.’”  Gimelstob said he spent this week recovering from a five-
day bout of the flu. Though he has $10,000 personally at stake,
Gimelstob is more concerned about the other $30,000 he wants to
raise, as well as honoring Wernick and his competitive pride.  “This whole process has garnered so much positive energy
and attention,” Gimelstob said. “Now it’s time to put my feet
where my mouth is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eben Novy-Williams  in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 