-- Netanyahu to Meet Biden in New Orleans to Discuss Middle East Peace Effort
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-11-07T16:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/netanyahu-visits-u-s-to-discuss-revival-of-talks-stalled-over-settlements.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  will meet Vice President  Joe Biden  today to explore
ways of reviving Middle East peace talks that have stalled over
a dispute about West Bank settlement construction.  Netanyahu arrived in New Orleans from Israel and will also
hold talks with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in the wake
of Republican gains in Congress in last week’s mid-term
elections. Both Biden and the Israeli leader are scheduled to
address a Jewish leadership conference in New Orleans. President
 Barack Obama  is on a trip to Asia.  “It is our firm belief that this impasse can be overcome
and we should be able to move expeditiously back to direct
negotiations,” Netanyahu spokesman  Mark Regev  told reporters
aboard the flight.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  says he won’t
continue talks if Israel keeps building settlements. He is
scheduled to meet leaders of the Arab League on Nov. 9 to
explore the option of seeking recognition for Palestinian
statehood from the United Nations Security Council if Netanyahu
doesn’t renew the limited building freeze he imposed last year.  That meeting may be postponed for a few days, Palestinian
negotiators say. Abbas is willing to give the U.S. another “two
or three weeks” to save the peace talks, chief negotiator  Saeb Erakat  said after meeting Obama’s Middle East envoy,  George Mitchell , in Washington on Nov. 4.  ‘Very Determined’  “The task before Netanyahu is to convince Israel’s friends
in the Jewish community, the administration and the incoming
Congress that he is very determined to move peace talks forward
and that the settlement issue is a red herring,”  Zalman Shoval ,
a Netanyahu adviser and former Israeli ambassador to the U.S.,
said in a phone interview.  After leaving New Orleans tomorrow, Netanyahu, 61, will
spend the rest of the trip in New York, where he plans to meet
with Clinton and UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon , Regev said.
He is scheduled to fly back to Israel on Nov. 11.  Clinton, traveling in New Zealand last week, said she is
working “nonstop” with Mitchell and other aides to salvage the
latest round of negotiations. Obama kicked the talks off with a
White House ceremony Sept. 1, only to watch them stall when the
10-month partial freeze on new West Bank settlements expired on
Sept. 26.  Netanyahu and Abbas, 75, had agreed to try to reach a
framework agreement within 12 months that would cover issues at
the core of the conflict, including the borders of a future
Palestinian state, security arrangements for Israel and the
right of Palestinian refugees to return.  Republican Leaders  Netanyahu has no meetings scheduled with the likely new
House Speaker,  John Boehner , or other Republican leaders, who
won’t take office until the new year. He may, though, “be in
situations where he meets at least part of the new leadership”
on an informal basis during the trip, Shoval said.  Netanyahu “will not be making an effort to bear-hug the
new leadership, that would be the wrong move,” said  Jonathan Spyer , a political scientist at Israel’s Interdisciplinary
Center Herzliya, near Tel Aviv. “The fact that the
administration has been weakened is clear. Netanyahu knows it
and Obama knows it.”  Palestinians may get less money from the new Congress, said
 David Makovsky , head of the project on the Middle East peace
process at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. He
cited  Eric Cantor  of Virginia, the No. 2 Republican in the House
and highest-ranking Jewish lawmaker, who has proposed linking
allocation of funds for the Palestinian Authority to its
recognition of Israel as a Jewish state.  ‘Under Pressure’  “The economic assistance to the Palestinians, which had
been prominent in the Obama administration, could come under
pressure now,” said Makovsky, speaking on Nov. 4 at the Middle
East Institute in Washington.  U.S. bilateral assistance to Palestinians is expected to be
$502.9 million this year and $550 million in 2011, according to
the State Department and Congressional Research Service. Since
the death of Palestinian leader  Yasser Arafat  in November 2004,
aid has averaged about $400 million a year.  Netanyahu last month offered to renew the settlement freeze
in exchange for such recognition. The Palestinians turned down
the proposal saying it would undermine the right of return for
Palestinian refugees. Israel says the step is necessary to
ensure the Palestinians don’t make additional claims once a
peace treaty has been signed.  “This man hasn’t shown any willingness to come closer to
us and talk seriously about statehood,” Palestinian negotiator
 Nabil Shaath  said of Netanyahu in a phone interview. “He just
says, ‘Seduce me, give me what I want, and maybe I’ll think
about another partial freeze’.”  East Jerusalem  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and East
Jerusalem since Israel captured the territories in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN says that settlements are illegal.
Israel says the territory isn’t occupied because it wasn’t
recognized as belonging to anyone before the 1967 war.  Even after his party’s mid-term defeat, Obama must push
Israelis and Palestinians harder and spell out his own plan for
an agreement because the two sides haven’t been able to do it
themselves, said  David Ricci , a Hebrew University political
scientist in Jerusalem.  “This is the Middle East, where negotiations last until 30
seconds before the end,” Ricci said in a phone interview. “The
only thing that closes the deal is the final offer and Obama
hasn’t put his on the table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in New Orleans via the Jerusalem bureau at
   jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 