-- New York's Bloomberg Urges Cities to Take Lead on Tackling Climate Change
-- B y   J o h n   D u c e
-- 2010-11-06T02:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/new-york-s-bloomberg-urges-cities-to-take-lead-on-tackling-climate-change.html
New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
urged cities to set clear targets in tackling climate change and
to fill the “vacuum of leadership” surrounding the issue.  “We must be bolder, we must be more collaborative and we
must be more determined,” Bloomberg said today in Hong Kong at
a forum on global warming.  Bloomberg is the new chairman of the  C40 Cities Climate
Leadership Group , which shares ideas and experiences among
cities on how to tackle climate change. Nations will meet later
this month at the United Nations-organized talks in Cancun,
Mexico, to try to reach an agreement on curbing greenhouse gases
after a summit in Copenhagen failed last year.  Delegates from more than 30 cities have spent two days in
 Hong Kong  discussing ways of developing electric-powered
transportation and greater energy efficiency in buildings to
help tackle global warming. The C40 climate group was set up in
2005 and members include New York, London, Beijing and Houston.  “Our cities have demonstrated that we are prepared to
boldly confront climate change,” Bloomberg said. “As Mayors,
we know that we don’t have the luxury of simply talking about
change without delivering it.”  More than 70 percent of greenhouse gases are emitted by
cities, Bloomberg said.  Cities should cooperate closely in tackling climate change
and increase the credibility of their actions by measuring if
they are meeting clear targets, Bloomberg said.  Talks in China aimed at reaching an international accord to
mitigate climate change ended last month without agreement.  The U.S. wants China and some larger developing countries
to accept international scrutiny of their measures to reduce
emissions. China said richer nations should pledge deeper
emissions cuts before developing nations are asked to do more.  Bloomberg is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  