-- Obama Says There's Room for Compromise With Congress on Tax-Cut Extension
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-11-06T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/obama-says-there-s-room-for-compromise-with-congress-on-tax-cut-extension.html
President  Barack Obama  urged Congress
to extend lower income tax rates for the middle class during the
lame-duck session of the current Congress and said “there’s
room for us to compromise and get it done together.”  In his weekly  radio and Internet address , Obama urged
Congress to quickly pass a measure that would keep the lower
rates for lower- and middle-income taxpayers enacted under
President  George W. Bush .  “If Congress doesn’t act by New Year’s Eve, middle-class
families will see their taxes go up starting on New Year’s
Day,” he said.  Republicans and Democrats have different positions on the
tax cuts, which were enacted in 2001 and 2003 and will expire
Dec. 31 unless Congress acts. Obama favors extending them for
families earning as much as $250,000, while letting the lower
rates for the wealthiest taxpayers expire at year’s end -- an
action that he has said will cut the  deficit  by about $700
billion over 10 years. Most Republicans call for extending all
the tax cuts.  “I believe we can’t afford to borrow and spend another
$700 billion on permanent tax cuts for millionaires and
billionaires,” the president said.  Obama congratulated the winners of the Nov. 2 midterm
elections and urged Democrats and Republicans to work together
on such matters as reducing the deficit and implementing his
proposal for a three-year freeze in discretionary spending for
all areas of government except national security.  He said voters “made their voices heard” and have “made
it clear that it’s time for results.”  ‘Got the Message’  “This is a great opportunity to show everyone that we got
the message and that we’re willing, in this post-election
season, to come together and do what’s best for the country we
all love,” Obama said.  At a Nov. 4 briefing with reporters, White House press
secretary  Robert Gibbs  said the president is “open” to
temporarily continuing lower rates for upper-income taxpayers to
win the extensions for middle-income families.  The lame-duck session is scheduled to begin Nov. 15. Obama
has invited congressional leaders from both parties to the White
House on Nov. 18 to talk “substantively about how we move the
Americans people’s agenda forward.”  The lawmakers on the guest list are Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  of Nevada; Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of
Kentucky; Senate Majority Whip  Richard Durbin  of Illinois;
Senate Minority Whip  Jon Kyl  of Arizona; House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of California; House Minority Leader  John Boehner  of
Ohio; House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer  of Maryland, and House
Minority Whip  Eric Cantor  of Virginia.  The Republicans are currently the minority party in the
House and the Senate. The results of the Nov. 2 elections gave
them a majority in the House for the next Congress, starting in
January, and Boehner is expected to replace Pelosi as speaker.  Republican Address  In the Republican  radio  and  Internet   address , Senator-elect
 Marco Rubio  of Florida said it would be a mistake to consider
the results of the midterm elections results “as simply an
embrace of the Republican Party.”  “This election is a second chance, a second chance for
Republicans to be what we said we were going to be,” he said.  He said voters want a “course correction.”  “The past two years provided a frightening glimpse at what
could become of our great nation if we continue down the current
path,” Rubio said, citing “wasteful spending” and the
recently enacted health-care law, which he described as
“government reaching ever further into our lives.”  ‘Path to Ruin’  “It is nothing short of a path to ruin, a path that
threatens to diminish us as a nation and a people,” he said.  Rubio, 39, used his personal story as the son of working-
class Cuban immigrants who came to the U.S. to better their
children’s lives.  “That is what we must do as a nation,” he said. Americans
must “leave the next generation of Americans a better America
than the one we inherited.”  Republicans, instead of rejecting Democratic policies,
should “put forward bold ideas,” such as extending the Bush-
era tax cuts, repealing the “disastrous” health-care law,
simplifying the tax code and reducing the deficit.  Rubio, a Tea Party favorite who served as  Florida House
speaker  before running for the U.S. Senate, defeated both
Governor  Charlie Crist , who ran as an independent, and
Democratic Representative  Kendrick Meek  in the Nov. 2 election.  Rubio will succeed  George LeMieux , who was appointed to
fill the seat vacated when Republican  Mel Martinez  resigned in
2009. LeMieux didn’t seek re-election.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  