-- Obama to Ease Export Restrictions for Indian Defense, Space Organizations
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-11-06T12:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/obama-to-ease-export-restrictions-for-indian-defense-space-organizations.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  will
announce a relaxation in export controls for India today to
reduce barriers to commerce and align the countries’ trade
regimes to reflect their strategic alliance, an administration
official said.  As part of the agreement, the Obama administration will
support India’s full membership in multilateral nuclear non-
proliferation regimes and remove India’s defense and space
organizations from the U.S. “entities list,” which restricts
them from doing business with the U.S.  “This really includes India as a major player in a non-
proliferation world,”  Michael Froman , Obama’s deputy national
security adviser, said in Mumbai today. “Removing these
entities from the list will allow for greater trade and
cooperation in civilian space and defense and enable our
governments to focus on other outstanding barriers.”  Earlier in the day,  David Cote ,  Honeywell International Inc. 
chief executive officer, called the old export controls
“archaic” and hailed the potential arrival of a new regime.  “It’s good for trade, which means it’s good for jobs,” he
said speaking to reporters in Mumbai.  Cote will meet Obama today at the  U.S.-India Business
Council  summit in Mumbai, India’s financial capital. At today’s
media briefing,  PepsiCo Inc . CEO  Indra Nooyi ,  McGraw-Hill
Companies Inc . CEO  Terry McGraw III  and AES Corp.’s  Paul Hanrahan  all spoke of the opportunities Indian markets present
for U.S. companies.  Nuclear Device  Indian officials had been asking the administration to
remove the country’s companies and organizations from the
entities list, a designation that punished the South Asian
country for detonating a nuclear device in 1998.  The list places restrictions on what the companies can
import and export. India also wants the U.S. to relax its export
controls on commercial technology that could potentially have
military applications.  Today’s announcement will mark “an incremental advancement
in U.S. and India relations,” said S. Chandrasekaran, director
of the South Asia Analysis Group, a policy-research organization
in India. “This is good news for India in that it will give
them better access to more sophisticated technology.”  India won access to atomic fuels and technology in September
2008 after an accord forged with President George W. Bush led to
the 45-member Nuclear Suppliers Group lifting a three-
decade ban on exports.  Obama has said that he hopes to use his trip to India, the
first stop on a four-nation, 10-day tour of Asia to promote
exports as a way to increase jobs at home. U.S. merchandise
exports to India quadrupled between 2002 and 2009, and exceeded
$16.4 billion last year, according a White House fact sheet.  Boeing Deals  In accords detailed today, the White House said in a
statement that  Boeing Co.  is finalizing a deal worth about $4.1
billion to sell C-17 military aircraft to the Indian government.
The firm has also agreed the sale of 30 commercial aircraft to
the Indian discount airline SpiceJet Ltd. in an order worth
about $2.7 billion, according to the statement.  Obama told a meeting of U.S. and Indian CEOs in Mumbai that
they represented “billions of dollars” in orders from U.S.
companies and tens of thousands of jobs because of a potential
that has “barely been scratched.”  “This is I think why folks back home in the United
States need to embrace the possible partnership with India as a
democracy, one that appreciates human rights, pluralism, one
that has an entrepreneurial culture,” Obama said. “We want to
place our bets with India as a strong partner.”  Bush Deal  President Obama “recognizes and appreciates the important
role business is playing in driving sustaining growth,” Nooyi
said. “Thoughtful collaboration between the U.S. and India will
provide very tangible benefits on both sides in the form of
fueling investment and job creation.”  Obama arrived in India today and during a 10-day, four-
nation trip he is peppering his schedule with events linked to
expanding U.S.  exports .  At his first stop, Obama and his wife Michelle met with
survivors of the 60-hour raid on Mumbai and signed a book of
commemoration at the  Taj Mahal Palace & Tower Hotel , where
gunmen killed 31 guests and staff and set rooms ablaze.  “We will never forget how the world, including the
American people, watched and grieved with all of India,” Obama
said. “We visit here to send a very clear message that in our
determination to give our people a future of security and
prosperity the U.S and India stand united.”  G20 Meet  “The primary purpose is to take a bunch of U.S. companies
and open up markets so that we can sell in Asia, in some of the
fastest-growing markets in the world,” Obama said Nov. 4 after
meeting with his Cabinet at the White House.  While planned long in advance around scheduled meetings of
the Group of 20 nations in South Korea and the  Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation  forum in Japan, Obama’s trip begins four
days after U.S. voters in midterm elections turned control of
the House of Representatives over to Republicans and narrowed
the Democratic Party’s Senate majority. Obama described his
party’s losses as a “shellacking.”  Obama said he wants to “show the connection between what
we’re doing overseas and what happens here at home when it comes
to job growth and economic growth.”  The Indian government is helping the president make his
case. “Our investment is creating, saving or supporting tens of
thousands of jobs in the United States,” Foreign Secretary
 Nirupama Rao  told reporters in New Delhi Nov. 4.  Longest Stay  Obama’s three-day stay in India will be his longest in a
foreign country as president. Asia’s third-biggest economy,
India offers a rapidly growing market for U.S. companies,
including Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc . and Fairfield, Connecticut-based  GE , the world’s biggest
maker of jet engines, power-plant turbines and locomotives.  Chicago-based  Boeing  expects to bid for $31 billion of
military contracts in the next 10 years as it competes with
suppliers including Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin
Corp.  following a tripling of India’s defense budget.  India is the U.S.’s 12th-largest trading partner and
commerce between the two countries more than doubled to $37
billion in 2009 compared with 2003, according to U.S. Commerce
Department data. In the first eight months of 2010, total trade
topped $32 billion.  High Priority  Obama has given closer relations with India a high priority,
as illustrated by his hosting of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
for the first state visit of his presidency.  Tomorrow he’s scheduled to leave for New Delhi, the capital,
where he will hold talks with Singh. Obama will address India’s
parliament on Nov. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Mumbai at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 