-- Obama, Visiting India, Promotes Trade, Democracy on First Asia Tour Stop
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-06T23:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/obama-says-india-s-economic-growth-win-win-situation-for-both-countries.html
President  Barack Obama  used his first
visit to India to herald the virtues of democracy and trade,
telling business leaders that increased commerce was a “win-
win” proposition that would create jobs in both countries.  “I am here because I believe that in our interconnected
world increased commerce between the U.S. and India can be and
will be a win-win proposition for both nations,” Obama said in
a speech to the  U.S.-India Business Council  in Mumbai yesterday.  Obama’s first day in Asia, at the beginning of a four-
country, 10-day tour, was studded with meetings with CEOs and
Indian entrepreneurs to emphasize the importance of job creation.
He was greeted at the airport by  Boeing Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Jim McNerney , who briefed the president on doing
business in India as they flew by helicopter to central Mumbai
aboard Marine One.  “The United States sees Asia, especially India, as a
market of the future,” the president said. “We don’t simply
welcome your rise as a nation and people, we ardently support it,
we want to invest in it.” Obama announced that controls on
exports of technology, imposed after India tested a nuclear
device in 1998, will be relaxed.  Five days after his party lost control of the House of
Representatives, Obama also warned against protectionism. He
sought to dispel what he said were perceptions that trade leads
to U.S. jobs being outsourced to India, though he acknowledged
that as India’s economy continues to emerge, there will
“undoubtedly” be competition between the world’s two largest
democracies.  ‘Old Stereotypes’  The mutual benefits of trade “might not be readily
apparent” to both Americans and Indians, Obama said. “There
are many Americans whose only experience with trade and
globalization is a shuttered factory or a job that was shipped
overseas.”  In the U.S. there was a caricature of India as a land of
call centers and back offices that cost Americans their jobs, he
said. While in India, Obama said many see the arrival of
American companies and products as a threat to the livelihood of
small shop keepers.  “These old stereotypes and old concerns ignore today’s
reality,” Obama said. “Trade between our countries is not just
a one-way street of American jobs and companies moving to India.
It is a dynamic two-way relationship that is creating jobs,
growth and higher standards in both our countries.”  The two countries’ ties are “not about job creation in
just one place,” said  Kris Gopalakrishnan , chief executive of
Infosys Technologies Ltd. Obama “talked about keeping markets
open for both products and services.”  Exports Pledge  Obama has promised to double U.S. exports in five years and
is making that goal the focus of his day trip, as he seeks to
increase job creation at home and improve his relationship with
business leaders.  Before his address yesterday, Obama held roundtable
discussions with Indian entrepreneurs and chief executive
officers from both countries, including  General Electric Co.  CEO
 Jeffrey Immelt ,  Honeywell International Inc . CEO  David Cote ,
 PepsiCo Inc . CEO  Indra Nooyi  and  McGraw-Hill Companies Inc . CEO
 Terry McGraw III .  Obama devoted the substance of his day to commerce and
democracy while the day’s symbolism was centered around
terrorism. His first stop was a memorial at the  Taj Mahal Palace
& Tower Hotel , where Pakistani gunmen killed 31 guests and staff
and set rooms ablaze during a 60-hour raid on Mumbai two years
ago. Declaring that India and the U.S. stood united in opposing
terrorism, Obama in his speech did not mention Pakistan, a key
regional ally in fighting Taliban guerrillas.  Midterm Losses  In his address to business leaders, Obama extolled the
spread of democracy in Asia, though he paired his praise for
direct elections with an acknowledgement that it’s not always
kind to the party in power. It was a reference to last week’s
midterm elections where U.S. voters turned control of the House
of Representatives over to Republicans and narrowed the
Democratic Party’s Senate majority.  Drawing laughter, Obama urged countries to embrace
democracy, “even if it can be slow at times, even if it can be
messy, even if sometimes the election doesn’t turn out as you
like.”  Obama said that relaxing export controls for India will
“strengthen our national security,” and also “make sure that
unnecessary barriers don’t stand in the way of high tech trade
between our two countries.”  As part of the agreement, the Obama administration will
support India’s full membership in multilateral nuclear non-
proliferation regimes and remove India’s defense and space
organizations from the U.S. “entities list,” which restricts
them from doing business with the U.S.  Earlier yesterday, Honeywell’s Cote called the old export
controls “archaic” and hailed the potential arrival of a new
regime.  “It’s good for trade, which means it’s good for jobs,” he
said speaking to reporters in Mumbai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Mumbai at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Mumbai at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 