-- Obama Says U.S. Must Sell More to Asia to Rebuild Economy
-- B y   T a n   H w e e   A n n
-- 2010-11-06T04:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/obama-writing-in-new-york-times-says-u-s-must-find-new-markets-in-asia.html
The U.S. must sell more to Asia to
help rebuild an economy recovering from its worst recession
since the Great Depression, President Barack Obama said in an
opinion piece published yesterday in the New York Times.  U.S. companies will announce contracts worth “billions of
dollars” in India, said Obama, who said he aims to double
 exports  in five years. The president also said he’ll work to
complete a trade agreement with South Korea during his 10-day,
four-nation swing through Asia.  Obama’s trip begins days after U.S. voters in midterm
elections turned control of the House of Representatives over to
Republicans and narrowed the Democratic Party’s Senate majority.
The sluggish U.S. economy, a national jobless rate at or above
9.5 percent for 14 consecutive months and a federal budget
 deficit  forecast by the administration to hit $1.4 trillion this
year were top issues in the campaign.  “We need to find new customers in new markets for
American-made goods,” Obama wrote in the New York Times. “Our
government, together with American businesses and workers, must
take steps to promote and sell our goods and services abroad --
particularly in Asia.”  Obama is visiting India and Indonesia before heading to the
G-20 summit in South Korea’s capital, Seoul, and the APEC
meeting in Yokohama, Japan. He is joined on his trip in India by
a group of chief executives including  Jeffrey Immelt  of  General
Electric Co.  and  Jim McNerney  of  Boeing Co.   “It is hard to overstate the importance of Asia to our
economic future,” Obama wrote. “We want to expand our trade
relationships in the region, including through the Trans-Pacific
Partnership, to make sure that we’re not ceding markets, exports
and the jobs they support to other nations.”  Losing Market Share  The U.S., once the top exporter to South Korea, has dropped
to fourth place, the president wrote.  Exports of American goods to Indonesia jumped 47 percent in
the first eight months of 2010 from the same period a year ago,
he said. Every $1 billion the U.S. exports support more than
5,000 jobs in the nation, he said.  Obama said he will seek to reduce barriers to U.S. exports
in India. His three-day stay in that nation will be the longest
in a foreign country of his presidency.  India offers a rapidly growing market for U.S. companies,
including Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc . and Fairfield, Connecticut-based  GE , the world’s biggest
maker of jet engines, power-plant turbines and locomotives.  India is the U.S.’s 12th-largest trading partner and
commerce between the two countries more than doubled to $37
billion in 2009 compared with 2003, according to U.S. Commerce
Department data. In the first eight months of 2010, total trade
topped $32 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tan Hwee Ann  in Hong Kong at   hatan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  