-- October Payroll Increase Points to Acceleration in U.S. Consumer Spending
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-11-06T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/october-payroll-increase-bodes-well-for-u-s-consumer-spending.html
Employment in the U.S. rose in
October for the first time in five months, a sign the world’s
largest economy may strengthen in the final quarter of the year.  Payrolls climbed by 151,000 workers, exceeding all
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, after a
revised 41,000 drop in September that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department data showed yesterday in Washington.
Private hiring expanded the most since April, hours worked rose
and wages grew, while the  jobless  rate held at 9.6 percent.  The gains provide “a welcome boost to consumer-spending
power as the holiday season approaches,” said  Nigel Gault ,
chief U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
Massachusetts. “The economy has entered the fourth quarter with
more momentum.”  Businesses may be starting to gain confidence the recovery
will strengthen, even as Federal Reserve policy makers this week
announced a second round of large-scale asset purchases in a bid
to boost growth and help reduce unemployment. Hiring at
retailers climbed by the most since January, signaling merchants
like  Toys “R” Us Inc.  are counting on improving sales.  The  dollar  rose and Treasuries declined yesterday as the
jobs report added to optimism about the expansion and reinforced
recent reports that showed larger-than-forecast gains in retail
sales and manufacturing.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves
inversely to its price, climbed to 2.53 percent at 5:04 p.m.
yesterday in New York from 2.49 percent the prior day. The
dollar strengthened to $1.4032 per euro. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  increased 0.4 percent to 1,225.85.  Exceeds Forecast  Overall payrolls, which rose for the first time since May,
were forecast to climb by 60,000, according to the survey
median. The Labor Department revised up payrolls by 110,000 in
September and August.  Payrolls of “150,000 per month is probably still not quite
where we need to be,” Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, chief economist
for  Ford Motor Co. , said in an interview yesterday on Bloomberg
Television from Dearborn, Michigan. “We need to see a little
better recovery in the labor market to get the unemployment rate
coming down toward 9 percent.”  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, plans to add 1,200
jobs in Michigan by 2013 as sales rebound. Other companies
looking ahead include  Rockwell Collins Inc. , a Cedar Rapids,
Iowa-based maker of cockpit instruments and radios, which on
Oct. 29 said it will hire 800 people to boost staff by 4 percent
during the next 12 months.  Hiring Picks Up  Private hiring, which excludes government agencies, rose
159,000 in October after a 107,000 gain, yesterday’s report
showed. Economists in the survey projected an 80,000 increase.  President  Barack Obama  said the employment report is a sign
the economy is recovering from the “terrible damage” caused by
the worst recession since the 1930s. Even so, “the unemployment
rate is still unacceptably high,” he said yesterday.  Unemployment was forecast to hold at 9.6 percent, according
to the median prediction of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The rate was 7.7 percent in January 2009, when Obama took
office.  The loss of more than 8 million jobs, as a result of the
18-month recession that ended in June 2009, fueled Americans’
discontent with the economy, a central issue in the Nov. 2
elections that gave Republicans a majority in the House of
Representatives. Democrats lost seats in the Senate while
retaining control.  Unemployment Outlook  “It’s just going to take a long time to bring the
unemployment rate down to more acceptable levels,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut. Even so, “retailers have gotten a little more
optimistic about hiring. It’s not going to be a great holiday
season, but it’ll certainly be an improvement over last year.”  Retailers took on 27,900 workers as they prepared for the
November-December holiday shopping season, yesterday’s report
showed. Department store chain Kohl’s Corp. had plans to hire
about 40,000 people for the holiday period, 21 percent more than
last year. Toys “R” Us said it may add about 45,000 employees
for the season, including 10,000 at temporary stores.  Employment at service providers increased 146,000, the
first gain since May. Construction companies added 5,000
workers, mainly reflecting stronger employment in infrastructure
projects. Manufacturing payrolls unexpectedly decreased by 7,000
last month. Economists had projected a gain of 5,000.  Average hourly earnings increased 1.7 percent in October
from the same month last year. The average work week for all
workers rose to 34.3 hours from 34.2 hours in September.  Government Cuts  Government payrolls decreased by 8,000. State and local
governments reduced employment by 7,000, while the federal
government trimmed 1,000 jobs.  Fed policy makers this week announced a program of $600
billion in Treasury securities purchases through next June in a
bid to lower the unemployment rate. The central bank has already
cut  interest rates  almost to zero and bought $1.7 trillion in
securities.  “The pace of recovery in output and employment continues
to be slow,” the Federal Open Market Committee said in a
statement on Nov. 3. “Employers remain reluctant to add to
payrolls,” and “the unemployment rate is elevated.”  Policy makers are concerned that a falling inflation rate
increases the risk of deflation, or a general fall in prices
that increases the burden of debt in real terms and erodes
corporate profits.  Economy Accelerating  The jobs report adds to signs the economy may accelerate
after growing at a 2 percent annual pace in the third quarter.  Retail sales climbed 0.6 percent in September, more than
forecast. Services expanded in October at the fastest pace in
three months, while manufacturing grew at the strongest rate in
five months, according to reports this week from the Institute
for Supply Management.  Economists at Morgan Stanley in New York yesterday raised
their tracking forecast for U.S. economic growth in the fourth
quarter to 3.5 percent from 2.5 percent, in part because of the
jobs report.  Growth in the 2.5 percent to 2.8 percent range is
consistent with keeping the jobless rate stable, according to
the Fed’s long-term forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  