-- Loonie Trades Through Parity as Job Gains Boost Growth Optimism
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/loonie-trades-through-parity-as-job-gains-boost-growth-optimism.html
Canada’s dollar was worth more than
its U.S. counterpart for the first time in three weeks after
reports showing that each of the nations’ economies added jobs
last month bolstered global growth optimism.  The loonie, as the currency is referred to after the
aquatic bird on the one-dollar coin, rallied for a second
consecutive week as demand for higher-yielding assets and raw
materials climbed. Commodities generate about half of the
country’s export revenue. Canada will sell C$3 billion of two-
year notes on Nov. 10.  “The Canadian dollar could well outperform, based on a
Canadian employment report that was weak on the headline but
actually fairly encouraging,”  Camilla Sutton , director of
currency strategy in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia
Capital unit, wrote via e-mail. The U.S. jobs report “relieved
some fears that a softening U.S. economy will weigh on Canada.”  The Canadian dollar strengthened 1.9 percent to C$1.0001
per U.S. dollar yesterday in Toronto, from C$1.0194 on Oct. 29.
The loonie rose as high as 99.92 Canadian cents per U.S. dollar
yesterday. A Canadian dollar buys 99.99 U.S. cents.  Employment rose by 3,000 in October after a decline of
6,600 in September, Statistics Canada said yesterday in Ottawa.
The jobless rate declined to 7.9 percent from 8 percent as the
labor force shrank. Economists forecast net job growth of 15,000
and an 8 percent jobless rate, according to median estimates in
Bloomberg News surveys.  Loonie Boon  “The headline figure was worse than expected, but the
headline was misleading,”  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist
at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York, wrote via e-mail.
“Digging deeper into the numbers revealed some strong labor
market trends. With Canada’s close ties to the U.S., the better
than expected U.S. data was also a boon for the loonie,” he
wrote in a separate report.  U.S. employers added jobs last month for the first time
since May. Payrolls climbed 151,000, exceeding the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and following
a revised 41,000 drop the prior month that was smaller than
initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed yesterday
in Washington.  Crude oil and stocks rose after the employment reports,
bolstering the loonie’s gains, and gold touched a record.  The MSCI World Index and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
reached the highest levels since 2008. The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index  in Toronto rose 2 percent this week, to the most
in two months. Gold for immediate delivery rose to a record
$1,397.35 yesterday. Crude oil futures touched $87.22, the
highest since October 2008.  Growth Concern  The Canadian currency will weaken to C$1.04 by the end of
next year, according to the median of 31 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The loonie is still the worst performer during the
past three months among the greenback’s 16 most-traded
currencies, rising 1.8 percent, on concern growth in the U.S.,
Canada’s largest trading partner, will remain stagnant.  The nation’s Conservative government blocked Melbourne-
based BHP Billiton Ltd.’s hostile $40 billion takeover bid for
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan. Industry Minister  Tony Clement 
said on Nov. 4 that the transaction wouldn’t provide a net
benefit to Canada.  The U.S. dollar is the worst performing major currency
since July on speculation the unconventional monetary easing
policies of the Federal Reserve will erode the value of the
world’s reserve currency. The Fed announced Nov. 3 that it would
buy $600 billion of Treasuries to keep borrowing costs low to
stimulate growth and inflation.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year note’s  yield  rose five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.85 percent this week. The
price of the 3.5 percent security maturing in June 2020 fell 40
cents to C$105.38.  Canada’s government bonds have lost investors 0.2 percent
this month, paring the gain this year to 7 percent, according to
a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  