-- HP Investors’ Lawyer Seeks to Disclose Fisher Letter About Hurd
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-11-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/hp-investors-lawyer-seeks-to-reveal-hurd-sex-harassment-complaint-letter.html
A San Diego law firm representing
Hewlett-Packard Co. shareholders said it is seeking to disclose
to investors an ex-contractor’s letter to the HP board accusing
former chief executive officer  Mark Hurd  of sexual harassment.  Robbins Umeda LLP obtained the letter from the company
through a shareholder books and records inspection request, said
Davia Hayward, a spokeswoman for partner Marc Umeda. Hurd’s
attorneys have said the letter is confidential and lawyers from
the firm are in discussions with Hurd’s counsel, Hayward said in
a telephone interview yesterday.  The harassment allegations made in the letter by company
contractor  Jody Fisher  kicked off a probe of Hurd that
ultimately led the board to ask for his resignation. He left the
company in August, then joined  Oracle Corp.  as its president a
month later. Palo Alto, California-based HP named  Leo Apotheker 
as its new CEO on Sept. 30.  Gina Tyler , an HP spokeswoman, and  Glen Bunting , a
spokesman for Hurd, declined to comment. The law firm’s plans
were reported earlier by Fortune.  On the day Hurd left, HP said he had violated its standards
of business conduct by concealing a relationship with a contract
employee. HP also said it found inaccurate expense reports filed
by Hurd or in his name.  The company disclosed that it received a a sexual-harassment
complaint, saying it didn’t find that Hurd broke its harassment
policy. Hurd settled with Fisher privately.  Hayward declined to say which shareholders Robbins Umeda
represents. She also declined to comment on the contents of the
letter. The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that the
letter claimed Hurd leaked acquisition plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 