-- Pakistan Supports General Sales Tax, Changes to Energy Industry, IMF Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-06T01:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/pakistan-supports-general-sales-tax-changes-to-energy-industry-imf-says.html
Pakistan supports a general sales tax
and changes to its energy industry, according to the
International Monetary Fund, which has been in talks with the
flood-ravaged nation’s authorities.  The parties agreed on a budget deficit target for the 2011
financial year to help flood victims and reduce inflation, the
Washington-based IMF said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Progress has been made regarding the measures to be
implemented in the context of the authorities’ economic
stabilization and reform agenda, while protecting the poor,”
 Adnan Mazarei , the fund’s mission chief to the country, said in
the statement.  The IMF in September approved $450 million in emergency
help for Pakistan after flooding crippled its economy in August
and left 17.2 million people homeless. The natural disaster
added pressure to a federal budget stretched by funding military
action against terrorism, including a mosque bombing yesterday
in the northwest that killed at least 67 people.  Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani  estimates the floods
may stoke inflation to as high as 20 percent and curb economic
expansion to 2.5 percent in the 12 months through June.  About 17.2 million people lost homes and livelihoods to
monthlong floods that killed more than 1,500 people, the United
Nation’s Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
said.  Pakistan has one of the world’s lowest tax levels, which
leaves the government without enough revenue to provide social
services and forces the central bank to print money to finance
deficits, the IMF’s Mazarei said last month.  The U.S. announced Oct. 22 it would give the nation an
extra $2 billion in military aid over the next five years to
fight terrorists.  A suicide bomber struck a mosque frequented by anti-Taliban
tribal elders near Peshawar on Nov. 5, killing at least 67
people, the Dawn newspaper reported on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  