-- Papandreou Braces for Austerity Backlash as Greece Holds Local Elections
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-11-06T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/papandreou-braces-for-austerity-backlash-as-greece-holds-local-elections.html
Greeks head to the polls today for
local elections that Prime Minister  George Papandreou  has called
a key test of support for his government as it grapples with a
crippling budget deficit and debt burden.  Almost 10 million people are entitled to cast ballots to
elect officials for 325 Greek municipalities and 13 regions.
Voting will close at 7 p.m. local time with an initial tally of
the results due around 9 p.m. A run-off election between
candidates who don’t win a majority will be held Nov. 14.  Papandreou’s 13-month-old government has cut wages and
pensions and raised taxes after inheriting an economy that
required a 110 billion-euro ($154.3 billion) rescue package from
the European Union and International Monetary Fund in May. He
told Greeks on Oct. 25 to rally behind his Pasok party and
suggested he might call an early national vote unless they
endorse him. Polls show most Greeks will protest his policies.  “All of them are mocking us, telling lies,” Spyros
Varkatzoulis, 27, a construction worker in Athens, said on Nov.
6. “There’s no reason to vote for any of them.”  The prospect of political upheaval has unnerved investors
again, just after Greece’s cost of borrowing had started to
decline. Yields on 10-year Greek bonds climbed above 11 percent
last week from a low of 8.77 percent on Oct. 13.  The  spread  against German bunds of the same maturity has
widened 211 basis points since Papandreou raised the possibility
of early elections last month. It had narrowed to 649 basis
points on Oct. 18 from a record 965 on May 7, five days after
the EU and IMF approved the bailout.  Voter Anger  Most polls show Greeks will vote against Pasok-backed
candidates and the government’s wage and pension cuts, designed
to narrow a budget deficit equal to almost 13.6 percent of gross
domestic product. The size of the shortfall was revealed after
Papandreou won elections in October 2009 on a promise of higher
wages and increased state spending.  About 67 percent of 5,000 voters surveyed by GPO in a poll
published Oct. 22 had a negative opinion of the government, up
from 57 percent in August. Almost 66 percent of 1,183 Greeks in
a Kapa Research poll released Oct. 10 said the country could
have avoided asking for funds.  Papandreou and his socialist party lead the main opposition
New Democracy party. Forty-one percent had a higher level of
trust for Papandreou, compared with 23 percent for New Democracy
leader  Antonis Samaras , according to the Kapa poll.  Rebel Lawmakers  Yiannis Dimaras, one of three lawmakers expelled from Pasok
after defying Papandreou in the May vote on terms of the
bailout, is poised to beat the ruling party’s candidate in the
race to head a new regional authority for the greater Athens
area, the biggest in Greece.  Dimaras, 66, has campaigned under the slogan: “Memorandum
for the people,” a reference to the May agreement with the EU
and IMF.  Today’s ballot is the first since Papandreou reshaped local
government. The Kallikratis plan, named for one of the
architects of the 2,500-year-old Parthenon Temple, aims to save
the government at least 1.5 billion euros over three years.  Greece’s 1,034 local municipalities will be cut to 325, and
67 regional and prefectures will be replaced with 13 more
powerful regional authorities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  