-- Treasury Yields Tumble to Records on Fed's Plan to Purchase $600 Billion
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-11-06T04:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/treasury-yields-tumble-to-records-on-fed-s-plan-to-purchase-600-billion.html
Treasury two- and five-year note
 yields  dropped to records after the Federal Reserve said it
would buy an additional $600 billion of U.S. debt to keep
borrowing costs low and sustain the economic recovery.  U.S. debt  yields  rose yesterday after the government’s
payrolls report showed employers added more jobs in October than
analysts forecast. The 30-year  bond  yield rose this week to a
four-month high as the Fed said it would buy fewer longer-term
securities than many investors anticipated. The Treasury will
auction $72 billion in notes and bonds next week.  “People’s heads are spinning after this week,” said  John Fath , a principal at BTG Pactual in New York. “The market’s
affirming what the Fed is trying to accomplish. The market’s
saying the Fed will be successful.”  The yield on the 5-year note decreased this week eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 1.09 percent,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 1.25 percent
security maturing in October 2015 rose 3/8, or $3.75 per $1,000
face amount, to 100 25/32.  The 5-year note yield fell to a record low of 1.0148
percent on Nov. 4, a day after the Fed announced additional debt
purchases. The 30-year bond yield increased 14 basis points to
4.12 percent after advancing yesterday to 4.16 percent, the
highest level since June 22. The extra  yield  investors demand to
hold 30-year bonds compared with 5-year notes rose to a record
3.08 percentage points.  Benchmark Note  The yield on the benchmark 10-year  note  dropped seven basis
points to 2.53 percent in the biggest weekly decrease since the
five days ended Oct. 8. The 2-year note yield gained three basis
points to 0.37 percent after falling on Nov. 4 to the all-time
low of 0.3118 percent.  Fed policy makers said following their Nov. 2-3 meeting
that the central bank will expand asset purchases at a pace of
about $75 billion a month through June to reduce unemployment
and avoid deflation.  Resuming large-scale asset purchases should boost economic
growth through lower borrowing costs and higher stock prices,
and concern the strategy will lead to significant increases in
inflation is “overstated,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  wrote
this week in an opinion piece in the Washington Post.  “You’ve got deflation risks that are going to stay with us
for several years,”  Dominic Konstam , global head of interest-
rates research in New York at Deutsche Bank AG, said yesterday
in a Bloomberg Television interview on “Surveillance Midday”
with  Tom Keene .  Yields on 5-year notes will fall to 0.5 percent and 10-year
yields will reach 2 percent, according to Konstam, whose firm is
one of the 18 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  Inflation Outlook  The difference between  yields  on 30-year bonds and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, was 2.59 percentage points yesterday after
rising on Nov. 3 to 2.74 percentage points, the highest level
since May 2008.  China, the biggest foreign holder of U.S. debt with $868.4
billion of Treasuries at the end of August, said the Fed needs
to explain this week’s decision to purchase bonds to pump money
into the economy or risk undermining the global recovery.  “Many countries are worried about the impact of the policy
on their economies,” Vice Foreign Minister  Cui Tiankai  said at
a press briefing in Beijing yesterday. “It would be appropriate
for someone to step forward and give us an explanation.
Otherwise international confidence in the recovery and growth of
the global economy might be hurt.”  Government Auctions  The U.S. government will sell $32 billion of three-year
notes, $24 billion of 10-year debt and $16 billion of 30-year
bonds next week. A $10 billion sale of 10-year TIPS on Nov. 4
drew a record-low yield of 0.409 percent.  The yield on the five-year note increased yesterday for the
first time in seven days as the Labor Department reported that
employers added 151,000 jobs last month after a revised decrease
of 41,000 in September. The median forecast of 83 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey was for 60,000 more jobs. The
unemployment rate stayed at 9.6 percent.  “With these employment statistics looking a little better,
it’s not a good time to be betting on continuous declines in
interest rates,” said  Anthony Crescenzi , a bond strategist at
Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., in a Bloomberg Radio interview.  Government debt yields will remain lower until there’s more
evidence that the U.S. economic recovery is gaining momentum,
according to other investors.  “We will need to see much higher numbers of job growth to
put any real dent in the employment picture, and we are clearly
not there yet,” said  Larry Milstein , managing director of
government and agency debt trading in New York at R.W.
Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “It’s important to note that the Fed
is still in the picture.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  