-- Refugees Flee Mount Merapi After Latest Eruption; Death Toll Reaches 116
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2010-11-06T15:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/refugees-flee-mount-merapi-after-latest-eruption-death-toll-reaches-116.html
A surge of refugees fleeing the
latest eruption of Indonesia’s Mount Merapi yesterday prompted
authorities in central Java to expand evacuation centers.  As many as 200,000 people sought shelter in four regions of
Yogyakarta and Central Java provinces, Agam Ferdhatama, an
official at the  National Disaster Management Agency ’s command
post, said by phone from Jakarta today. The centers housed about
76,000 people on Nov. 4.  The death toll since the volcano began erupting on Oct. 26
reached 116 as of noon today, Ferdhatama said. Authorities
yesterday extended to 20 kilometers (12 miles) from 15 the
minimum safe distance from the volcano.  “People are suffering respiratory and skin problems,” Oka
Hamid, a spokesman at Red Cross Indonesia’s Yogyakarta branch,
said by phone. “They were covered with ash from the eruption
when they came to the evacuation centers and the situation is
getting worse after yesterday’s blast.”  Indonesia is battling to recover from two disasters that
struck the Southeast Asian nation within a day of each other.
The death toll from a tsunami that hit the Mentawai Islands off
the west coast of Sumatra Oct. 25 reached 445 with 58 still
missing, Ferdhatama said.  Merapi, Indonesian for mountain of fire, has been spewing
hot ash for two weeks, stretching rescue efforts as villagers
defy safety rules to tend to cattle stranded on the
mountainside. The volcano may release ash for as long as two
months, Subandriyo, an official at the Volcanology and Geology
Disaster Mitigation Center, said Nov. 3.  Flights Suspended  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is directly overseeing
Merapi relief efforts from a presidential palace in Yogyakarta,
TVOne reported today. Adi Sucipto airport in the city remained
closed since yesterday morning, the television channel said.  The government will buy endangered cattle at reasonable
prices “so that people will follow the government’s instruction
to head for safety,” Yudhoyono said yesterday.  Singapore Airlines Ltd.  suspended flights between Jakarta
and the city-state because of ash from the volcano, the carrier
said in an e-mailed statement today. The carrier suspended four
flights for Jakarta, and four departing from Indonesia’s
capital, it said.  Malaysian Airline System Bhd., the national carrier, said
it had cancelled flights “due to the severity of volcanic ash.”  Flights to and from Bandung and Yogyakarta have been
cancelled “until the situation improves,” the company said in a
statement on its website today. “Flights connecting Kuala Lumpur
to Jakarta are expected to be cancelled today and tomorrow
morning,” it said.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.  also suspended two flights from
Hong Kong to Jakarta and one from Jakarta to Hong Kong, the
carrier said in an e-mailed statement. The flights will resume
tomorrow if conditions improve, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoga Rusmana  in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  