-- Saudi Arabian Shares Advance Most in Two Months on Fed Stimulus Plan, Oil
-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2010-11-06T13:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/saudi-arabian-shares-gain-most-in-seven-weeks-on-fed-stimulus-plan-oil.html
Saudi Arabian shares rose the most in
two months after U.S. and European markets advanced and oil
prices rallied as the Federal Reserve announced another round of
bond purchases to boost the world’s biggest economy.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. , the world’s largest
petrochemicals maker, known as Sabic, advanced to the highest
level since May 5 after oil rose by $5.42 a barrel in the past
week.  National Industrialization Co.  surged 3.1 percent.  The  Tadawul All Share Index  gained 1.9 percent to 6,461.74
at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh, the biggest rise since Sept.
4. The measure has rallied 12 percent since its low this year in
May. Stocks advanced around the world this week after the Fed
announced plans to buy an additional $600 billion of Treasuries
in a second round of quantitative easing. The central bank also
kept its pledge to hold interest rates low for an “extended
period” after Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the program could
be modified in some way.  “The market is taking its cue from the highly anticipated
events of last week in the U.S.,” said  Asim Bukhtiar , equity
analyst at Riyad Capital in Riyadh. “The QE2 announcement is
expected to lift asset prices and risk tolerance.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  ended the week with a gain
of 3.6 percent, its fifth straight weekly advance and the
longest rally since April. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 2.3
percent this week, the biggest gain in two months. The 21-
country benchmark MSCI Emerging Markets Index surged 4.5 percent
this week.  Up Move  “Oil has also made a large up move over the weekend, this
is helping investors place larger bets on petrochemicals,” said
 Amro Halwani , a trader at Shuaa Capital PSC in Saudi Arabia.  Sabic  soared 6.1 percent to 104.25 riyals, the largest gain
in five months.  National Industrialization , the petrochemical
maker known as Tasnee, rose 3.1 percent to 32.8 riyals, the
highest price since Oct. 10.  Yanbu National Petrochemicals 
surged 4.2 percent to a six-month high of 44.7 riyals.  Saudi
Industrial Investment Group  soared 4.3 percent to 19.60 riyals.  Crude oil climbed to a two-year high after U.S. payrolls
rose more than forecast in October, bolstering confidence in the
economy, while the dollar headed for a weekly decline against
most major currencies.  Crude rallied 6.7 percent this week to $86.85 a barrel on
the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest settlement price
since Oct. 8, 2008. Saudi Arabia holds one-fifth of the world’s
proven oil reserves.  Al Rajhi Bank , the kingdom’s largest publicly traded
lender, rose 1.6 percent to 78.75 riyals, the biggest gain in
almost three months.  Saudi Arabia’s index is the only Gulf Arab benchmark
tracked by Bloomberg that trades on a Saturday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mourad Haroutunian  in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 