-- Saudi Inflation Slows to Annual 5.8% in October on Rents; Food Prices Rise
-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-11-06T16:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/saudi-inflation-slows-to-annual-5-8-in-october-on-rents-food-prices-rise.html
Saudi Arabian inflation slowed for
the second month in October on lower rental costs even as food
and beverages prices rose in the Arab world’s largest economy.  Price growth eased to 5.8 percent from 5.9 percent a month
earlier, the  Central Department of Statistics  said on its
 website  today. Rental prices slowed to 10.4 percent in October
from 10.5 percent in September. On the month, consumer prices
rose 0.5 percent, according to the data.  “Inflation seems to be on a slow decline,”  John Sfakianakis , Banque Saudi Fransi’s chief economist, said in
response to e-mailed questions today. “The outlook for the rest
of the year is one of continuous but very gradual decline, with
the average inflation for the year at 5.4 percent.”  Inflation in Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil
supplier, accelerated to 6.1 percent in August. The rise was due
to higher global food prices, not excessive money supply,
central bank Governor  Muhammad al-Jasser  said last month.  Food and drink prices in October increased by 8.3 percent
compared with 7.5 percent in the previous month, according to
the data posted on the statistics department’s website.  Inflation will remain above 5 percent in the first half of
next year,  National Commercial Bank  said in an e-mailed report
in September. A lack of residential housing and a recovery in
domestic demand are also pushing up prices, the Jeddah-based
bank said.  “For 2011 the outlook is a bit better and inflation should
fall below 5 percent on average due to base effects and some
respite in food prices,” Sfakianakis said. “But rents should
continue to remain high and keep headline inflation above
historical levels.”  The central bank last year cut the repurchase rate to 2
percent, the lowest since 2004, and the reverse repurchase rate
to 0.25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mourad Haroutunian  in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  