-- Stocks in U.S. Rally, Driving Dow to Highest Since Pre-Lehman-Bankruptcy
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-11-06T04:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/stocks-in-u-s-rally-driving-dow-to-highest-since-pre-lehman-bankruptcy.html
U.S. stocks  rallied for a fifth week,
sending the Dow Jones Industrial Average to its highest level
since before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy, as
the Federal Reserve announced a $600 billion bond-purchase plan
to boost growth and employment increased more than forecast.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. jumped at
least 8 percent amid speculation the Fed will let strong banks
boost dividends or buybacks. Alcoa Inc., American Express Co.
and Caterpillar Inc. jumped more than 6.2 percent to lead the
Dow’s gain. Starbucks Corp. and Qualcomm Inc. advanced as
earnings beat estimates.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 3.6 percent to a
two-year high of 1,225.85 this week.  The Dow  increased 325.59
points, or 2.9 percent, to 11,444.08. The S&P 500 rose every day
this week, the first time that’s happened in a five-day week
since March. Both measures have increased in at least 8 of the
past 10 weeks.  “Everybody has been whispering about the Fed’s purchases,
but after the announcement, the market seemed to think it was
all very new news,” said  Wasif Latif , vice president of equity
investments at USAA, which oversees $45 billion in San Antonio.
“When the $600 billion figure came out, the participants who
had doubted the Fed will purchase assets threw in the towel and
didn’t want to be left behind.”  The S&P 500 has surged almost 20 percent since July 2 and
the Dow erased all its losses that followed Lehman’s 2008
bankruptcy. The Citigroup Economic Surprise index for the U.S.,
which gauges the rate at which economic data is exceeding or
trailing economists’ estimates, has improved 11 straight days
and turned positive on Oct. 29.  Fed, Elections  The Fed said on Nov. 3 that new Treasury purchases will be
about $75 billion a month through June. The majority of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg expected the Fed would add at
least $500 billion to the financial system.  Stocks also rose this week after a report showed U.S.
employers added more jobs than forecast last month and midterm
elections produced a divided Congress that’s unlikely to pass
new business reforms. Payrolls climbed by 151,000 jobs, beating
the 60,000-position median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Republicans took control of the House of
Representatives on Nov. 2, while Democrats retained control of
the Senate.  “The events that took place this week -- the elections,
the Fed announcement, the employment report -- all three have
positive forward implications for equity prices,” said  Barry Knapp , chief U.S. equity strategist at Barclays Plc in New York.
“The elections point to the stabilization between the
government and the private sector. The Fed purchases will go on
for at least seven months, and the stronger-than-expected
payrolls report creates an encouraging macro-environment going
forward.”  Bank Dividends  Financial shares in the S&P 500 rose 6.9 percent as a group
this week, jumping 3.4 percent on Nov. 4. JPMorgan, Bank of
America and Wells Fargo & Co. rallied after a report the Fed is
expected to start allowing healthy banks with strong capital
levels to increase dividend payments.  Concerns that bank capital was under pressure from souring
loans prompted Fed officials in February 2009 to issue a letter
to its regional supervisors telling them banks “should reduce
or eliminate dividends” when earnings decline or the economic
outlook deteriorates. The new guidelines may show the Fed’s
confidence in banks’ health is being restored.  “It was positive not just in terms of returning cash to
shareholders, but the fact that banks will be allowed to raise
dividends shows the Fed no longer supports higher capital
standards for them,” Knapp said. “That was a little bit of
thawing on the regulatory front.”  Earnings, VIX  U.S. companies are poised to report the fourth straight
quarterly earnings increase. Starbucks, the world’s largest
coffee-shop operator, rose 8.1 percent to $30.87 after saying
fiscal  fourth-quarter profit  rose 86 percent on higher foot
traffic and Via instant coffee sales. Excluding some items,
earnings of 37 cents a share exceeded analysts’ average
estimates by 5 cents.  Qualcomm surged 7 percent to $48.33. The biggest maker of
mobile-phone chips reported profit that topped analysts’
estimates amid increasing popularity of smartphones. Earnings
were 53 cents a share, beating the average analyst estimate of
46 cents a share.  The benchmark measure of U.S. stock options had the biggest
decline since July this week. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index  dropped 14 percent to 18.26, declining four out
of the past five days. The index measures the cost of using
options as insurance against declines in the S&P 500, and
usually decreases when stocks rise.  “People liked the election and quantitative easing because
they think they take out some of the big downside move
possibilities,” said  Dominic Salvino , a specialist at Group One
Trading, the primary market maker for VIX options, said in an
interview on the CBOE floor. “They were worried about
unexpected things playing out in both events but that didn’t
happen and clearly the market liked that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 