-- Collahuasi Mine Strike Enters 2nd Day as Talks Stall
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2010-11-06T13:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/strike-at-collahuasi-mine-enters-second-day-as-wage-talks-remain-stalled.html
A strike by workers at  Anglo American
Plc  and  Xstrata Plc’s  Collahuasi copper mine, the world’s fourth
biggest, entered a second day as negotiations over a new wage
contract remain stalled.  The company is waiting for union leaders to agree to new
talks, Bernardita Fernandez, a Collahuasi spokeswoman, said. The
union won’t negotiate unless the company makes the first move,
Jacqueline Cerda, a union spokeswoman, said.  “That’s the only case where we are going to approach the
company,” Cerda said in an interview from the city of Iquique
where workers staged street protests yesterday.  The strike at  Collahuasi , which accounted for 3.5 percent
of the world’s copper output last year, helped push up the
metal’s price to a 28-month high yesterday as the stoppage
threatened to exacerbate supply shortages.  Inventories  of copper
in warehouses monitored by the London Metal Exchange have
declined 27 percent this year.  Collahuasi may be able to maintain production because it
previously stockpiled ore to be processed into concentrates, the
intermediary product that is shipped to Asian smelters,
Macquarie Group Ltd. analysts led by London-based  Duncan Hobbs 
said in an e-mailed note.  “We knew with a lot of anticipation when it would begin,”
Collahuasi’s Fernandez said, declining to elaborate on
contingency plans. About 700 striking workers began the mine
site today, Fernandez said.  Street Protests  Unionized workers plan street protests today in Iquique.
Hundreds of miners dressed in black jackets with the company’s
logo protested yesterday by blowing horns and whistling at
traffic.  Cerda said Nov. 4 that the union plans a “long” strike to
seek the wage increase it requested. The union has declined to
disclose terms of its proposal.  Collahuasi’s Fernandez said unions are seeking an increase
of 350 percent in both pay and benefits. The company offered a
bonus of 11.5 million pesos ($24,000) and 2 million pesos of
soft loans, she said. Workers at BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida
copper mine in northern Chile were paid a 14 million peso bonus
last year.  Collahuasi  produced about 535,000 metric tons of copper
last year, or 3.5 percent of the world’s output, according to
Standard Bank Plc. Anglo American and Xstrata each own 44
percent and a group led by Mitsui & Co. holds the rest.  Collahuasi’s copper production is only surpassed by
Escondida, Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg mine
in Indonesia and Codelco’s Norte division in Chile.  Collahuasi, located near Chile’s border with Bolivia in the
Andes Mountains, is unrelated to the San Jose copper mine where
the rescue of 33 miners was watched by millions of people across
the world last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  