-- Sudan's White Nile, China's CAMC to Build Sugar, Animal-Feed Factories
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-11-06T11:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/sudan-s-white-nile-china-s-camc-to-build-sugar-animal-feed-factories.html
Sudan’s White Nile Sugar Co. signed
agreements for an ethanol factory and animal-feed plant with
 China CAMC Engineering Co. , Managing Director Hassan Satti said.  “The agreement is for building the two factories,” which
would start production in the crop year ending April 2012 when
White Nile plans to begin sugar production, Satti said in an
interview late yesterday in the Sudanese capital, Khartoum.  The ethanol factory will have a capacity of 46 million
liters (12.2 million gallons) a year and will use molasses, a
byproduct from White Nile’s sugar production, Satti said. The
animal-feed plant will produce 100,000 metric tons each year, he
said.  Satti declined to say how much the projects would cost.
Beijing-based China CAMC Engineering will start building the
factories in January, he said upon arrival from a trip to China
and India with Sudan’s Industry Minister Awad Ahmed al-Jazz.  The trip also aimed to promote other planned projects by
Kenana Sugar Co., which owns a 30 percent stake in White Nile,
including Al-Sofeyya sugar factory, a sugar refinery and a port
to export agricultural products to be built in the Red Sea city
of Port Sudan, Satti said.  There was “big interest” from a number of Chinese
companies in these projects, with detailed talks scheduled to
start in December in Sudan, Satti said. He declined to mention
company names.  Double Output  The ethanol plant will be Sudan’s second producer of the
biofuel. Sudan currently produces 65 million liters of ethanol
per year, at Kenana, the country’s largest sugar producer, which
plans to double its output to 130 million liters by 2013, Kenana
Managing Director Mohamed El Mardi said in September.  The Sudanese parliament is expected to pass a law this year
that would require fuel suppliers to sell gasoline locally
containing 5 percent to 10 percent biofuels starting next year,
Hassan Erwa, Kenana’s marketing manager said in a September
interview in Johannesburg.  Kenana exported its first five million liters of ethanol to
the European Union in December.  Sudan is currently Africa’s fourth-largest sugar producer.
It has five factories with a total output of about 800,000
metric tons, of which four are owned by the government and the
other by Kenana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 