-- U.S. News to Discontinue Monthly Print Magazine, Shift Focus to Digital
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2010-11-06T00:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/u-s-news-to-discontinue-monthly-print-magazine-shift-focus-to-digital.html
The publisher of U.S. News & World
Report will discontinue its monthly magazine to concentrate on
its website and single-topic print issues for newsstand sale.  The December issue will be the last one sent to subscribers,
Washington, D.C.-based U.S. News Media Group said in a memo to
employees today. The company plans to print eight issues a year
focused on topics such its college and graduate school guides,
while continuing to produce its digital U.S. News Weekly.  “We’re finally ready to complete our transition to a
predominantly digital publishing model,” said Brian Kelly,
editor of U.S. News, and  Bill Holiber , president of U.S. News
Media Group, in the memo. “This will allow us to make the most
of the proven products, useful journalism, and great audience
growth we’ve been sustaining.”  U.S. News was founded in 1933 and merged with World Report
in 1948. It published weekly in competition with  Time Warner
Inc. ’s Time and Newsweek, which was sold in August by  Washington
Post Co.  U.S. News, owned by real estate developer  Mort Zuckerman , reduced its print frequency to biweekly in 2008 and
then to monthly in 2009 as advertising for magazines declined.  In an interview this week, Zuckerman said the subscription
magazine business “is dead” and there is more opportunity in
specialized issues and digital news. He said the company was
generating new revenue online through “lead generation,” a
process by which colleges or hospitals ranked on U.S. News lists
pay a fee each time an online reader clicks over to their
websites. Zuckerman, who purchased the magazine in 1984,
couldn’t be reached for further comment.  The website  usnews.com  now averages more than 9 million
unique monthly visitors, the company said on its website. It
provides digital versions of the magazine’s college and hospital
rankings, as well as data on mutual funds, cars and health plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 