-- U.S., Australia to Discuss Supplies of Rare Earth Minerals, Clinton Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-11-06T10:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/u-s-australia-to-discuss-supplies-of-rare-earth-minerals-clinton-says.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said high-level talks between the U.S. and Australia will focus
on China’s monopoly over minerals used in military systems and
its claims to the South China Sea.  “We want to see China’s rise be successful, bring benefits
to the Chinese people, but to take on greater responsibility and
a rules-based approach to all of its neighbors,” Clinton said
in an appearance with Australian Foreign Minister  Kevin Rudd .  Clinton is in Australia to mark the 70th anniversary of
formal diplomatic relations between the two nations. She and
Rudd issued a statement affirming the alliance and its shared
commitment to democracy, “an international, rules-based
order,” and the strengthening of regional institutions.  “Our relationship continues to be a strategic anchor of
security and prosperity in this region and beyond,” Clinton
said as she began the two-day visit. “We have a very full
agenda over the next two days.”  One topic on the agenda will be the need to develop
alternate sources of rare earths after a slowing of exports from
China raised questions about supplies of the minerals, she said.  Rare earth minerals, a group of 17 metals that includes
neodymium, samarium and dysprosium, are used in military
hardware such as missile guidance and radar systems. China now
controls about 97 percent of the rare-earths supply.  Beijing reportedly cut exports of rare-earth minerals in
October. Clinton said the prospect of a future slowdown “raised
questions” in many nations about whether it is “wise to be
dependent on a single source for elements that are critical to
the most advanced civilian and military technology.”  Shipping Route  The U.S. and Australia will also discuss China’s claims to
the South China Sea, a major shipping route. Those claims have
strained relations between China and its Southeast Asian
neighbors, which also claim parts of the maritime passageway.  Earlier today, Clinton and Rudd discussed food security,
violence against women and their Monday meeting with the U.S.
and Australian defense ministers. Those talks will focus on the
war efforts in Afghanistan, cyber-security, counterterrorism and
the peaceful uses of space, Clinton said.  Clinton will meet with Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
tomorrow to discuss nuclear nonproliferation, human rights,
climate change, trade and educational exchanges. Clinton will
also give a speech at the University of Melbourne about adapting
the alliance to 21st century challenges.  Clinton is on a two-week tour of the Asia-Pacific to
reaffirm U.S. engagement, bolster alliances and assert its
leadership. The trip, Clinton’s sixth to the region since taking
office, included stops in Vietnam, Malaysia, Cambodia, China,
New Zealand and energy-rich Papua New Guinea.  Obstacles  The U.S. and Australia reaffirmed their “dedication” to
strengthening groups such as the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations and the East Asia Summit.  Progress on that front may be difficult, said Joshua
Kurlantzick, a fellow for Southeast Asia at the Washington-based
 Council on Foreign Relations , a non-partisan policy group.  “The U.S. and to some extent many other outside countries
get frustrated by the lack of architecture in Asia, and the
slowness and often inability to do anything of ASEAN and the
other regional organizations,” Kurlantzick said in an
e-mail. “That’s just not their way. Ultimately the decisions
will be made by countries in the region.”  Clinton said the U.S. and Australia will put special
emphasis on development work. “Along with defense and
diplomacy, development is the third pillar of America’s foreign
policy,” Clinton said.  The countries’ statement included an announcement about
Australia’s commitment to give $14.5 million to UN Women, a new
United Nations institution, to support women’s empowerment and
equality. The two nations’ development agencies will collaborate
on efforts to reduce violence against women and poverty in
general.  Rudd said 30 percent of women experience violence in their
lifetime. “We’ve got a responsibility not just to observe this
but to act upon it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Melbourne at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin in Tokyo at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  