-- U.S., India May Have Agreement on Export Controls, Honeywell's Cote Says
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-11-06T08:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/u-s-india-may-have-agreement-on-export-controls-honeywell-s-cote-says.html
The United States and India may have
reached an agreement on revising “archaic” export controls,
said  David Cote ,  Honeywell International Inc.  chief executive
officer.  “There are strong rumors that the very archaic export
control system that exists between the U.S. and India, we may be
able to see a liberalization of that,” said Cote, speaking to
reporters in Mumbai as President  Barack Obama  arrived in the
city. “We’re very hopeful that those rumors come true. It’s
good for trade, which means it’s good for jobs.”  Cote will meet Obama today at the  U.S.-India Business
Council  summit in Mumbai, India’s financial capital. At today’s
media briefing,  PepsiCo Inc . CEO  Indra Nooyi ,  McGraw-Hill
Companies Inc . CEO  Terry McGraw III  and AES Corp.’s  Paul Hanrahan  all spoke of the opportunities Indian markets present
for U.S. companies.  Indian officials are looking for the Obama administration
to remove companies from the “entities list,” a designation
applied to Indian organizations to punish the country for
detonating a nuclear device in 1998. The list places
restrictions on what the companies can import and export. India
also wants the U.S. to relax its export controls on commercial
technology that could potentially have military applications.  Obama has said that he hopes to use his trip to India, the
first stop on a four-nation, 10-day tour of Asia to promote
exports as a way to increase jobs at home. U.S. merchandise
exports to India quadrupled between 2002 and 2009, and exceeded
$16.4 billion last year, according a White House fact sheet.  The president “recognizes and appreciates the important
role business is playing in driving sustaining growth,” Nooyi
said. “Thoughtful collaboration between the U.S. and India will
provide very tangible benefits on both sides in the form of
fueling investment and job creation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Mumbai at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 