-- U.S., India United in Opposing Terrorism, Obama Says at Taj Hotel Shrine
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-06T11:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/u-s-india-united-in-opposing-terrorism-obama-says-at-taj-hotel-shrine.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  said his
visit to a memorial for the victims of the 2008 attacks on
India’s largest city was “to send a very clear message” that
the two countries are united in defending their people from
terrorism.  At his first stop in a three-day visit to India, Obama and
his wife Michelle met with survivors of the 60-hour raid on
Mumbai and signed a book of commemoration at the  Taj Mahal
Palace & Tower Hotel , where gunmen killed 31 guests and staff
and set rooms ablaze.  “We will never forget how the world, including the
American people, watched and grieved with all of India,” Obama
said. “We visit here to send a very clear message that in our
determination to give our people a future of security and
prosperity the U.S and India stand united.”  The hotel’s heritage wing, favored by royalty, rock stars
and tycoons, opened for business in August this year after a $37
million restoration. Renamed the Taj Mahal Palace Mumbai, the
wing was ravaged as Pakistani militants armed with automatic
rifles and grenades stormed the 107-year-old building, taking
hostages and burning rooms that once accommodated  Mick Jagger ,
 Jacqueline Onassis ,  Yehudi Menuhin  and  Prince Charles .  The hotel has boosted security and added luxury suites by
joining rooms. The Taj Group added x-ray machines and metal
detectors to screen guests, while newly installed barriers
prevent vehicles from pulling up to the entrance.  Death Sentence  The Nov. 26-29, 2008 attacks in India’s financial capital
killed 166 people, including six Americans. Among other targets
were the Oberoi Trident Hotel, a railway station, a Jewish
center and a cafe popular with tourists and locals. The raid
shattered peace talks between India and its traditional rival
Pakistan that are yet to fully recover.  A court in May sentenced to death  Mohammed Ajmal Kasab , the
only one of 10 guerrillas who arrived in Mumbai aboard a dinghy
before embarking on a 60-hour rampage to be caught. He has since
appealed the sentence.  In a shift in strategy for groups attacking India, Kasab
and his accomplices targeted businessmen and tourists, a strike
at the international links that have helped India’s economy
quadruple in size since it opened to foreign investment in the
early 1990s.  India’s government says that the Pakistan-based militant
group Laskhar-e-Taiba, whose name means “Army of the Pure” and
that was formed to fight Indian rule in the divided Himalayan
territory of Kashmir, ordered the attack. It broke off peace
talks with the government in Islamabad.  Headley Interrogation  While the nuclear-armed neighbors have agreed to rebuild
ties and their leaders have met at regional summits and for
bilateral talks, India says that a full return to broad-based
negotiations is dependent on Pakistan closing down anti-India
militant groups based on its soil.  David Coleman Headley, a man of mixed Pakistani and U.S.
parentage, pleaded guilty in a U.S. court to helping plot the
Mumbai attack, and was later questioned by Indian investigators.  The London-based  Guardian newspaper  last month said
Headley’s testimony to Indian officials detailed the
relationship between the gunmen and Pakistan’s main military
intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate.
Pakistan denies it had any role in the raid.  The attack on Mumbai “grew out of pressure on commanders
of Lashkar-e-Taiba to wage a wider war against the West,” the
Guardian reported, citing an Indian report based on 34 hours of
questioning of Headley.  The Taj has been a landmark of Indian freedom since before
the last garrison of British troops lined up in front of the
hotel prior to leaving the country after independence in 1947.
Jamsetji Tata is said to have built the Taj Mahal after being
refused entry to one of the city’s best hotels, Watson’s, which
only allowed whites, the Times of India said in a 2005 article.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Mumbai at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Mumbai at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 