-- Unrivaled Belle Staves Off Favorite Midday to Win Ladies' Classic
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-11-06T04:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/unrivaled-belle-staves-off-favorite-midday-to-win-ladies-classic.html
Unrivaled Belle held off a late
charge by favorite Blind Luck to win the $2 million
Breeders’ Cup Ladies’ Classic.  The Bill Mott-trained filly, ridden by  Kent Desormeaux , covered the 1 1/8 miles in 1:50.04 yesterday on
the first day of the Breeders’ Cup Championships at
Churchill Downs in Louisville, Kentucky. Blind Luck was
second and Havre De Grace was third.  “She made an explosive move around the turn leaving
the three-eighths pole and just took the lead away from
everybody,” Mott said. “I just have to give Kent the
credit. He pulled the trigger and it worked out. We opened
up on the field and left them in her dust.”  Unrivaled Belle returned $17 to win on a $2 bet, $5.80
to place and $4.20 to show.  Attendance increased by 10.5 percent to 41,614 over
the same day last year at Santa Anita Park in Arcadia,
California. Wagering on the six Breeders’ Cup races
yesterday reached more than $45 million, compared with $40
million last year.  “This is a very encouraging start for the event with
excellent support in the local market as we head into
Zenyatta’s quest for perfection on Saturday,” said
Breeders’ Cup Chief Executive Officer  Greg Avioli .  Richest Race  The $5 million Classic, the richest thoroughbred horse
race in North America, highlights the second day of racing
today as Zenyatta attempts to extend her undefeated streak
to a record 20 wins. Goldikova will be looking for an
unprecedented third straight victory in the mile on turf.
There are eight races today.  Shared Account, a 46-1 longshot with no wins in four
Grade I starts, won the $2 million Filly and Mare Turf
yesterday to claim the second-biggest upset in the
Breeders’ Cup’s 27-year history over European favorite
Midday. The filly gave jockey  Edgar Prado  and owner  Kevin Plank , the founder of Under Armour Inc., their first wins
in the turf race.  “Once she saw the clear, she kept grinding,” Prado
said. “I think she really wanted to win today.”  Shared Account, trained by Graham Motion, paid $94 to
win, $21.80 to place and $15.20 to show.  After the 1 ¾-mile Marathon, the first of six
championship races yesterday, three-time Kentucky Derby-
winning jockey  Calvin Borel  and  Javier Castellano  got into
a brawl.  Jockey Brawl  The fight was sparked when Castellano pulled his
mount, Prince Will I Am, into the path of other horses near
the top of the home stretch with Borel, aboard A.U. Miner,
among those affected. Stewards disqualified Prince Will I
Am from his second-place finish for interference.  Eldaafer won the $500,000 race, with Gabriel’s Hill
moved up to second and A.U. Miner third.  Restaurateur and network food correspondent  Bobby Flay ’s More Than Real, running at 13-1, won the $1 million
Juvenile Fillies Turf over one mile.  “This is obviously the biggest win I’ve ever had in
horse racing by a magnitude of a thousand,” Flay said. “I
knew that she was running really well. She got clear, and I
was just hoping that somebody wouldn’t come from behind and
catch us.”  More Than Real was trainer  Todd Pletcher ’s fourth
Breeders’ Cup victory.  In the $2 million Juvenile Fillies, Awesome Feather
gave trainer Stanley Gold and jockey Jeffrey Sanchez
victories in their Breeders’ Cup debuts.  Dubai Majesty, ridden by Jamie Theriot and trained by
William Bret Calhoun, won the $909,000 Filly and Mare
Sprint over seven furlongs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  