-- Myanmar Votes for First Time in 20 Years as Army Maintains Grip on Power
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-11-07T10:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/myanmar-votes-for-first-time-in-20-years-as-army-maintains-grip-on-power.html
Polls closed in Myanmar’s first vote
since 1990, an election that ushers in a presidential system
with opposition voices even as  Aung San Suu Kyi  and some 2,000
other political prisoners remain detained.  Suu Kyi’s party, which won a landslide victory two decades
ago in a result nullified by the junta, boycotted the vote in
the country formerly known as Burma. That leaves two parties
comprised of rival military factions as the frontrunners to
control the balance of power in Parliament and put forward
presidential nominees.  “Almost all the opposition parties are facing difficulties
today,”  Than Nyein , a former member of Suu Kyi’s party who
heads the National Democratic Front, told reporters in Bangkok
by phone from his home in Yangon, Myanmar’s former capital.
Polling booth supervisors were “directing voters to vote for
the pro-government party,” he said.  The ballot and formation of a new government may prompt
Western nations to reassess economic and financial sanctions as
Myanmar’s Asian neighbors embrace the vote. China, India and
Thailand are investing in ports, railways and oil and gas
pipelines that give them access to the country’s natural
resources and trade routes in the Indian Ocean.  ‘Neither Free Nor Fair’  U.S. President  Barack Obama , visiting India today on the
first stop of a four-country trip, said the elections were
“neither free nor fair,” according to a White House statement.
He repeated a call for the regime to release Suu Kyi and other
detainees and to start a dialogue with ethnic minorities and
pro-democracy groups.  “We will monitor the situation in Burma closely in the
weeks and months ahead,” the statement said. The U.S. “will
continue to implement a strategy of pressure and engagement in
accordance with conditions on the ground in Burma and the
actions of the Burmese authorities.”  Myanmar’s foreign minister,  Nyan Win , told counterparts in
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations that Suu Kyi, 65, may
be released soon after the election. The Nobel laureate has been
detained for 15 of the past 21 years, with her latest house
arrest starting in 2003.  ‘Miserably Failed’  Than Nyein, 73, spent more than a decade in prison before
his release two years ago. He said the boycott pushed by Suu Kyi
had “miserably failed” and opposition parties will “have a
comfortable number of MPs in the Parliament.”  The military will  retain  a quarter of seats in two houses
of Parliament, with the rest contested by 37 parties, most of
which are small and represent regional interests. Elected
lawmakers in both houses will each be able to nominate a
presidential hopeful to compete against the candidate picked by
military-appointed legislators, according to the constitution.  Junta leader  Than Shwe  backs the Union Solidarity and
Development Party, which claims a third of the population as
members. Its main challenger is the National Unity Party, a
group loyal to former dictator  Ne Win , who ruled for 26 years
until Than Shwe’s group took power following a pro-democracy
uprising in 1988.  Than Shwe, 77, remains eligible for president even though
he’s not standing in the election. He is the latest in a series
of generals that have ruled Myanmar since 1962.  The USDP and NUP account for more than two-thirds of the
candidates in the 1,163 constituencies up for grabs, according
to Richard Horsey, an independent political analyst who used to
work with the  International Labor Organization  in Myanmar. Pro-
democracy parties, Than Nyein’s NDF, are running in fewer than
half of the races.  ‘Balance of Power’  “The most likely outcome is that the National Unity Party
will hold the balance of power” in both houses, Horsey wrote in
a pre-election  report . “This would give the NUP a powerful role,
and it is unclear how it will use its legislative influence.”  The votes will be counted at each polling station in the
presence of candidates and members of the public, after which
the results will be announced. The government has banned most
overseas journalists and diplomats from entering Myanmar to
observe the election and rejected United Nations assistance in
organizing the vote.  The atmosphere today in Yangon was “very low key,” Andrew
Heyn, the  British ambassador  to Myanmar, told reporters in
Bangkok by phone today. Lower-paid voters that diplomats spoke
with “were worried about possible repercussions” if they
didn’t vote for the USDP, he said.  Sanctions  The U.S. maintains trade and financial  sanctions  against
the regime, and legislators are pushing President  Barack Obama 
to start targeting banks that hold offshore accounts for junta
leaders. Europe has less stringent restrictions in place.  Italian-Thai Development Pcl , Thailand’s biggest
construction company, signed an $8.6 billion contract this week
with Myanmar to build a deep-sea port and industrial estate.
Earlier this year,  China National Petroleum Corp.  started
building oil and gas pipelines across the country, and India
approved plans for  Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  and GAIL India Ltd.
to invest a combined $1.3 billion in a natural gas project.  The elections “look set to change the business
environment,” said Luc de Waegh, Bangkok-based managing partner
of  West Indochina Ltd. , which advises companies looking to
invest in Myanmar. “They might bring a new mindset to the
governance of the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  