-- Yemen Militant Cleric Al-Awlaki's Arrest Ordered by State Security Court
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 2010-11-06T13:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/yemen-militant-cleric-al-awlaki-s-arrest-ordered-by-state-security-court.html
Yemen’s state security court issued
an order for the arrest of Anwar al-Awlaki, a Yemeni-American
cleric who supports violence against U.S. targets.  The order was made by Judge Muhssein Allawan, head of the
court, during the trial of Hisham Mohammed Asem, a teenager
charged with killing a French contractor at the local office of
Austria’s OMV AG. The court started Asem’s trial on Nov. 2, and
the tribunal is also trying in their absence al-Awlaki and
another defendant, Othman al-Awlaki, a relative, on charges that
they formed an armed gang to target foreigners in the country.  If arrested, U.S.-born al-Awlaki would be tried in
Yemen, whose constitution forbids the extradition of citizens,
Foreign Minister  Abu Bakr al-Qirbi  said in June. In a video
posted on Islamist websites on May 23, al-Awlaki justified the
killing of American civilians and urged Muslims in the U.S. army
to kill their fellow soldiers. The cleric is a dual citizen of
both Yemen and the U.S.  The U.S. is actively seeking al-Awlaki, who is trying to
“do our country and to do our interests great harm,”
White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said on May 23.  Yemen accused al-Awlaki of belonging to the al-Qaeda
terrorist network, Al Arabiya television reported Nov. 2,
without saying where it got the information.  Yemen, an Arabian Peninsula nation, has been under U.S.
pressure to crack down on al-Qaeda since the local wing of the
group claimed responsibility for a failed attempt to blow up an
American airliner on Dec. 25. After two bombs were discovered in
printer cartridges being shipped on U.S.-bound aircraft last
month, the U.S. determined they were probably the work of al-
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, as the Yemeni branch is known,
according to  John Brennan , President Barack Obama’s top
counterterrorism adviser.  Incited Killing  Prosecutors said that Asem, 19, a security guard at OMV,
was in e-mail correspondence with the other two defendants. The
charges against Anwar al-Awlaki allege that he incited the
killing of foreigners, citing the OMV attack.  During today’s session, prosecutors read out what they said
was a confession by Asem that he had links with Anwar al-Awlaki,
who had encouraged him to kill foreigners. Asem said he was
tortured into signing the confession.  “I do not know al-Qaeda and al-Awlaki at all and I used to
go to the Internet to listen to music,” Asem told Bloomberg
News. “I have not even heard about Anwar al-Awlaki.”  The contractor killed last month worked for Spie
Batignolles SA, a French construction company, according to the
French foreign ministry. A British contractor was also injured
in the attack.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem Hasan Ali in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net . 