-- Zenyatta Joins Goldikova as Mares Seek Breeders' Cup Record for Victories
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-11-06T04:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-06/zenyatta-joins-goldikova-as-mares-seek-breeders-cup-victory-records.html
Zenyatta isn’t the only mare
trying to set a record for victories at the Breeders’ Cup
Championships today.  Irish-born Goldikova, like undefeated Zenyatta, will
try to win a record third race at the event, which is being
held this year at  Churchill Downs  in Louisville, Kentucky.  Goldikova, who has 11 top-level victories in Europe --
seven against colts -- would hold the record for
consecutive victories in Breeders’ Cup races before
Zenyatta. The 5-year-old runs in the $2 million Mile on the
turf, which she has won the past two years, about two hours
before Zenyatta runs in the $5 million Classic.  “Goldikova is a very special mare,” Freddy Head, her
trainer, said during a teleconference. “She’s been running
against the best in Europe, the best milers in Europe for
three years now, and she’s beaten them all.”  Three races later, Zenyatta will try for her record
20th consecutive win and third Breeders’ Cup title. The 6-
year-old became the first female to win the Classic last
year and won the Ladies’ Classic in 2008.  “The unique thing about her is she’s come from
last,” trainer John Shirreffs said during a
teleconference. “How she does it, I have no idea because
she’s always sort of at the mercy of the pace. She’s got to
go wide or she’s got to cut a corner.”  Zenyatta is the early 8-5 favorite, running from the
eighth post position against 11 colts in the Classic, the
richest thoroughbred horse race in North America.
Goldikova, given 6-5 odds in the morning line, will try to
outlast 10 colts as she leaves from the 10th gate.  Zenyatta’s Shadow  “Goldikova, if she wins this, she’s amazing,”
trainer  Bob Baffert  said on a teleconference. “I think she
was shadowed a little bit by Zenyatta. It’s going to be
exciting to watch Goldikova if she can repeat because she’s
an amazing animal and she gets a little bit lost when she
comes to the stage.”  The Breeders’ Cup is the richest two-day sports event,
paying $26 million in purses, said  Greg Avioli , chief
executive officer of the racing series.  Baffert, who trained Classic entry Lookin At Lucky,
says the fans will be rooting for Zenyatta to win her final
race before she retires.  “That mare’s done so much for racing that I get goose
bumps every time I watch her run,” Baffert said. “She’s
just amazing, and we all want to win, but we don’t mind
getting beat by her.”  Horse of Year  The winner of the Classic often earns Horse of the
Year honors. Zenyatta lost the 2009 award to Rachel
Alexandra, who had won the Preakness Stakes. Shirreffs said
he is confident that she can win the title this year if she
retains the Classic championship.  “Her legacy’s going to be how she changed the
perception and how she engaged the fans with racehorses,”
Shirreffs said. “The fans really get behind her and she
sort of plays to the crowd, so she’s brought a lot of
people into racing.”  Head said Goldikova has a good chance of being named
European Horse of the Year after being passed over last
year.  “This is definitely the decade of the filly,” Avioli
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  