-- London tops list of global financial centers
-- 
-- Mon Jun 9, 2008 10:52pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/10/businesspro-economy-cities-dc-idUSN0930207120080610

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - London is the most influential 
financial centre in the world for the second year running, 
according to MasterCard's second annual survey. 

  European and Asian cities dominated the list as U.S. cities 
hit by the weak dollar tumbled in the rankings released on 
Sunday.  Shanghai, the world's most populous and fastest-growing 
urban centre, shot up eight spots to No. 24, given its growing 
importance in China's booming economy, while Los Angeles fell 
out of the top 10, to 17, as financial-services companies left.  "With a strong and secure economy, vibrant financial 
markets and a legal and political framework that supports high 
levels of International trade, London again secures the top 
spot in the Centers of Commerce Index in 2008," the report 
says.  "London towers over other cities not only in narrow 
financial terms but in a broader sense as well," said Michael 
Goldberg, Program Director, MasterCard Worldwide Centers of 
Commerce Program.  The index covers 75 cities, ranking them according to their 
legal and political frameworks, economic stability, ease of 
doing business, volume of financial activities, presence of 
financial institutions, reputations as business Centers, 
contributions toward knowledge creation, and livability.  "The European and Asian cities came out very strong," 
Goldberg said. "They became strong against the weak dollar."  New York, No. 2, and Chicago, No. 5, were the only two 
North American cities to make the top 10 global commercial 
Centers.  Tokyo was third and Singapore fourth. Hong Kong was sixth 
followed by Paris, Frankfurt, Seoul and Amsterdam.  Moscow improved its financial clout the most, placing 51st 
due to its key role for commodities in Eastern Europe.  Regionally, Western Europe dominated with 10 of the top 25 
cities, while Asia strengthened its reputation as an economic 
hub with seven of its cities in the top 25.  The highest-ranked Indian city was Mumbai at No. 48.  (Reporting by Syantani Chatterjee; Editing Peter Henderson)