-- ESPN president Bodenheimer "bullish" on ad growth
-- By  Gina Keating
-- Tue Jun 10, 2008 3:31pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/10/industry-disney-bodenheimer-dc-idUSN1037024320080610

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - Walt Disney Co's sports chief, 
George Bodenheimer, said on Tuesday he is bullish on growth 
prospects for the cable sports network ESPN, whose solid 
performance in recent years has been the main engine for 
Disney's operating income and revenue. 

  "Ratings are up ... and I am bullish on our continued 
advertising (growth)," Bodenheimer, co-chairman of Disney's 
Media Networks and president of ESPN, said at a Deutsche Bank 
media conference in New York that was accessed via webcast.  "We're bullish on continued growth of the company ... we're 
peddling as fast as we can on every business that serves sports 
fans," he said.  Bodenheimer declined to give growth targets but said strong 
upfront advertising sales for Disney's ABC broadcast network 
last week "bodes success for us."  "The entire pie to sports consumption is growing ... and 
ESPN is continuing to ride that wave," he said. "Ratings on 
ESPN are up significantly this year."  Bodenheimer gave no indication of current advertising sales 
-- something investors would be keen to hear, said David Bank, 
managing director of equity research at RBC Capital Markets.  "What everybody really wants to know is what's going on 
with the advertising environment," Bank said. "People want to 
know what is going on with budgets and the tone of the 
advertising markets."  ESPN has all of its 96 million subscribers under contract 
through 2010, and 80 percent through 2012. Bodenheimer said the 
network has been "extremely successful in locking up sports 
rights ... long term," which helps maintain stable distribution 
rates.  The network's key growth driver, its television business, 
"continues to be very strong and continues to grow at the same 
time we are expanding rapidly in digital media," he said.  Disney said in its most recent earnings conference call 
that it expected ESPN to defer $120 million more in revenue 
from television affiliates in the fiscal third quarter than it 
did a year earlier.  But on Tuesday, Bodenheimer said this was no longer the 
case because ESPN had met its performance targets earlier than 
expected.  ESPN's international business also was "growing nicely" and 
actively looking for new broadcasting rights, including for the 
upcoming Olympics and English Premier League soccer, 
Bodenheimer said. "I am bullish on international growth."  The network was especially looking to expand offerings for 
its Spanish-speaking fans, he said.  The network is working to bring some of its TV franchises 
online through paying distributors, and Bodenheimer said he 
also sees growth online in fantasy sports and Web video.  Through the recent purchase of a high school sports 
publication dubbed ESPN Rise, the network hopes to capture a 
new generation of fans.  Disney shares were up 80 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $33.98 
in afternoon trade on the New York Stock Exchange.  (Editing by  Brian Moss  and John Wallace)