-- Murdoch's steward picked for key Dow Jones role
-- By  Paul Thomasch
-- Fri Dec 7, 2007 6:00pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/12/08/industry-dowjones-publisher-dc-idUSN0731291820071208

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Rupert Murdoch is already putting his 
stamp on Dow Jones & Co and the Wall Street Journal, naming his 
loyal stewards to manage them even before he owns them. 

  Key on the list is Times of London editor Robert Thomson, 
handpicked to take over as publisher of Dow Jones and the 
Journal after News Corp shareholders vote on the $5.6 billion 
deal next Thursday.  Thomson, 46, is known to be a close adviser to Murdoch and 
in recent months was a vocal defender of his journalistic 
policies when they came under fire in negotiations with Dow 
Jones's controlling Bancroft family.  Another Murdoch loyalist, Les Hinton, the current executive 
chairman on News Corp's News International division, will 
replace Rich Zannino as Dow Jones chief executive. Dow also 
announced that Joseph Stern is leaving after serving as its 
general counsel and a director.  "Murdoch is moving rapidly to put his stamp on the 
organization, really even before he officially owns it," said 
Louis Ureneck, journalism department chairman at Boston 
University. "The chatter is he's already making changes among 
his editors and reshaping the news staff as well."  Thomson, who previously worked at Pearson's Financial Times 
where he oversaw a major U.S. expansion, will oversee the 
Journal's managing editor and editorial page editor, as well as 
the editors of Dow Jones Newswires, Barron's business weekly 
and MarketWatch.com.  His job expands on the role currently held by Journal 
publisher Gordon Crovitz, whose resignation was announced on 
Friday. Crovitz will remain a columnist for the newspaper.  How the Journal will look under Murdoch has been one of the 
central and tantalizing questions in News Corp's takeover. 
Murdoch has promised to allow the newspaper its independence, 
but there are those who expect the daily to become a breezier, 
less serious read.  Newspaper analysts said the change could prod some veteran 
Journal reporters to consider leaving the newspaper, as Murdoch 
makes clear who is in charge.  "With this recent set of moves I think we will see more 
rigorous recruiting of Journal's top talent ... they are going 
to feel much less secure and stable that the Journal will stay 
the same credible, trustworthy (newspaper)," said industry 
analyst Ken Doctor of Outsell Inc.
  RUNNING WHAT HE OWNS  News Corp also said on Friday that Murdoch's younger son 
James would return to head its Asian and European operations.  James Murdoch is now positioned to eventually take over 
News Corp from his father, a move that underscored the broader 
changes taking place in a media empire encompassing newspapers, 
film studios, satellite TV services and Internet sites.  "For all the debate over most of the last year over what 
would Rupert do, it's fairly obvious to anyone from his history 
that he likes to run what he owns," said Doctor.  "It's ironic that it's really the team of Zannino and 
Crovitz ... that built the current Dow Jones to the point that 
it was ripe for the kind of offer Murdoch produced," he added.  As CEO since 2006, Zannino guided the publisher through 
declining readership and advertising in the newspaper industry 
before finally playing a central role in assembling the News 
Corp deal. Zannino has said he would like to return to the 
corporate world.  Crovitz declined to comment on whether he has spoken with 
Thomson recently or was offered other jobs within Dow Jones.  "In terms of what I'm looking to do next, I'm looking for 
the right fit and I look forward to seeing what that is," 
Crovitz said in an interview.  Thomson, who will be succeeded at the Times of London by 
business and city editor James Harding, was not available for 
comment.  (Additional reporting by  Michele Gershberg , Robert 
MacMillan and  Kenneth Li ; Editing by  Gary Hill )