-- Apple, Sony Adopt LED Lights, Lift Producers' Shares
-- Tim Culpan
-- 2007-07-20T01:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-20/apple-sony-adopt-led-lights-lift-producers-shares-update1-.html

          
          
             Light-emitting diodes started as the
little red indicators on clock radios and are backlights in most
cell phones. Now the LEDs are helping  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Sony Corp. (6758) 
slim down computers and televisions and cut power usage.  
 They're also enriching investors. Shares of manufacturers
 Citizen Holdings Co. (7762) ,  Toyoda Gosei Co. (7282)  and  Stanley Electric Co. (6923) 
of Japan, and  Epistar Corp. (2448)  and  Everlight Electronics Co. (2393)  in
 Taiwan  have beaten global electronics stocks and their national
stock indexes this year.  
 Apple said last month it would replace fluorescent tubes
with LEDs in its  laptop computers . The Taiwan government plans
to swap traditional bulbs with LEDs in each of the country's
770,000  traffic lights  within three years to save power costs,
while Sony released a TV with an LED backlight in 2005.  
 ``Apple is the trendsetter; now that they're using LEDs
everyone else will follow,'' said Jordan Chen, who holds shares
of Everlight, Epistar and  Opto Tech Corp. (2340)  among the $200 million
he manages as chief investment officer at Invesco Taiwan Ltd. in
Taipei. ``LED stocks are benefiting from power efficiency and
environment protection, and the trend will continue.''  
 The cost of LED backlights for televisions has halved in
two years, according to research firm iSuppli Corp., boosting
demand. The global market will grow by 70 percent to $10.6
billion in the next five years, iSuppli said.  
 Citizen's share price has climbed 23 percent this year to
1,116 yen and Toyoda Gosei 28 percent to 3,540 yen. Epistar has
gained 74 percent to NT$171 and Everlight 58 percent to NT$146.
 The Morgan Stanley Capital International World/Information
Technology Index (MXWO0IT)  has added 14 percent, while Japan's  Topix index 
is up 5.2 percent and Taiwan's  Taiex index  21 percent.  
 Overvalued?  
 LEDs  are semiconductors that emit light whose color varies
according to the component chemicals. Current backlights, which
sit behind a liquid-crystal display, use fluorescent tubes,
which burn more power and provide less color spectrum.  
 While more power efficient, LEDs are as much as 50 percent
more expensive than fluorescent lights, limiting them at present
to high-end notebooks where price is less of an issue, said Tony
Chang, a spokesman at Taiwan's  Wellypower Optronics Corp. (3080)  The
company is phasing out production of some fluorescent tubes.  
 The Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company will increase its
capacity to produce LEDs 12-fold to 12 million pieces per month
this year because of customer demand, Chang said. LEDs will
account for as much as 20 percent of sales next year, from
between 5 percent and 10 percent this year, he said.  
 Widespread Litigation  
 There is also widespread litigation. On May 9, the U.S.
International Trade Commission found Epistar infringed two
patents owned by Lumileds Lighting International BV, a unit of
 Royal Philips Electronics (PHIA)  NV. The commission banned imports into
the U.S. of some of the Taiwanese company's chips, said Epistar
in a press release.  
 Closely held  Nichia Corp . in April 2006 settled out of
court a lawsuit filed a year earlier against Epistar and
Everlight in Tokyo District Court to stop the Taiwanese
companies from selling some of its products in  Japan .  
 Despite the hurdles, shares of LED makers have become more
expensive than those of peers. The stocks of seven LED companies
are valued, on average, at 36.1 times estimated earnings. That
compares with 27 times for the MSCI World technology index, 23
 times  for the Topix and 22 times for the Taiex.  
 ``In the short term, investors may see LED stocks as
overvalued and could reduce holdings,'' said Kevin Yang, who
manages NT$200 million at Paradigm Asset Management in Taipei,
including Epistar and Everlight. ``In the long term, the
industry has growth momentum. First it's notebooks, then it will
be TVs.''  
 Apple's MacBooks  
 Apple's  MacBooks , released last month, are the first of the
company's laptops to use LEDs, part of a goal to eliminate
mercury from Apple products and become more power-efficient.
Everlight says LEDs consume half the power of fluorescent lamps.  
 Epistar said last month sales and production capacity of
its LEDs used in flat-panel displays grew 50 percent in the
first half and will continue to expand. Sharp Corp. and Fujitsu
Ltd. also make notebooks that use LEDs.  
 Net income  at the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company climbed 51
percent to NT$344 million ($10 million) in the three months
ended March 31 from the same period a year earlier. Profit at
Tokyo-based Stanley Electric in the fiscal year ended March 31
climbed 28 percent to 26 billion yen ($213 million).  
 The cost of an LED backlight for a TV has fallen to 1 1/2
times that of tubes, from more than three times two years ago,
according to  iSuppli . The backlight accounts for about 30
percent of the component cost of a flat-panel display, the
largest share, said iSuppli.  
 Taiwanese and Japanese companies claim about two-thirds of
the global market for LEDs, said Deutsche Bank AG. Closely held
Nichia is the leader, along with Toyoda Gosei, minority-owned by
Toyota Motor Corp., and Durham, North Carolina-based  Cree Inc. (CREE)   
 Traffic Lights  
 Shipments of LEDs used as backlights in screens larger than
10 inches will almost triple next year compared with 12.8
percent growth for fluorescent tubes, according to a report last
quarter by Austin, Texas-based market researcher  Display Search .  
 ``Current P/E ratios don't yet reflect next year's revenue
growth,'' said Eric Wei, who helps manage NT$7 billion at Fubon
Securities Investment Trust Corp. in Taipei, including LED
makers.  
 Taiwan's economic ministry said in April it would spend
NT$2.1 billion to replace all of the country's traffic lights,
which use traditional bulbs, with LEDs, and will also convert
1.35 million street lamps.  
 ``Share prices have risen a lot, but this year is just the
start,'' said Fubon's Wei. Fubon plans to hold onto its Epistar
and Everlight shares and is looking for more LED investments,
Wei said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at   cwteo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An Apple iPhone syncs with an Apple laptop computer at the Apple Store, in San Francisco, June 29, 2007.  Apple said last month it would replace fluorescent tubes
with LEDs in its laptop computers.  Photographer: Kimberly White/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A boy tries Apple Inc. MacBook Pro laptop computers equipped with light-emitting diodes(LED) backlights at the Apple Store Ginza in Tokyo, July 20, 2007. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg News. 

  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
