-- Telmex Reduces Stock Buybacks to Fund Acquisitions
-- Adriana Arai
-- 2007-07-20T20:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-20/telmex-reduces-stock-buybacks-to-fund-acquisitions-update2-.html

          
          
             Telefonos de Mexico SA , the country's
biggest fixed-line telephone company, will spend less on stock
buybacks and dividends, leaving more cash for acquisitions, Chief
Financial Officer Adolfo Cerezo said.  
 ``We deliver value on one side through cash dividends and
share buybacks, but on the other side by adding value through new
acquisitions,'' Cerezo said on a conference call today to discuss
earnings. ``It's a combination.''  
 The company, known as Telmex, is considering acquisitions
outside of Mexico that Cerezo didn't specify. The Mexico City-
based company reduced buybacks to about 1 million Mexican shares
daily on average this year from 6 million to 7 million shares a
day in 2006, Cerezo said.  
 Telmex, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , is purchasing
cable-television companies in  Latin America  as sales in Mexico
stall and antitrust regulators prepare a probe aimed at curbing
its market dominance. The company owns a cable operator in  Brazil 
and in the past year agreed to buy three companies in  Colombia 
and one in  Peru .  
 Shares of Telmex fell 2.5 percent to 19.57 pesos in Mexico
City trading today, paring this year's gains to 28 percent.
Yesterday the company said second-quarter net income rose
16 percent to 8.04 billion pesos ($748 million) because of a one-
time tax reimbursement. Sales increased 1.9 percent.  
 Not Worried  
 ``The slowdown in the buybacks is also related to the stock
price,'' said Jaime Aguilera, a telecommunications analyst with
HSBC Holdings Plc in  Mexico  City. Aguilera said the share
purchases were ``aggressive'' last year, when the stock was
cheaper.  
 Telmex, which has about 90 percent of Mexico's fixed
telephone lines, isn't worried about the planned antitrust probe,
Cerezo said in response to an analyst's question. He urged the
Mexican Federal Competition Commission to take into account
mobile telephone lines and to segregate markets by income in the
investigation.  
 Telmex, the former national phone monopoly, which Slim
bought in 1990 at a privatization auction, has 23 percent of
Mexico's telecommunications market if one takes into account
mobile lines, Cerezo said. It has 66 percent of fixed lines among
higher-income consumers, the most profitable type of customer, he
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Adriana Arai in Mexico City at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        