-- Starbucks Delays India Entry, Withdraws Application
-- Saikat Chatterjee
-- 2007-07-20T13:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-20/starbucks-delays-india-entry-withdraws-application-update2-.html

          
          
             Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world's biggest
coffee-shop chain, has postponed its plan to enter  India , the
world's second-most populous nation.  
 Starbucks has withdrawn its application to operate single-
brand retail stores in India, T. May Kulthol, a spokeswoman of
the Seattle-based company, said in an e-mailed release. It
didn't give a reason for the withdrawal.  
 The government asked the coffee chain to file a revised
proposal clarifying the investment pattern of the company that
plans to open stores in India, Ajay Dua, secretary at the
department of industrial policy and promotion, said June 25. The
government said the proposed local unit didn't comply with
foreign direct investment rules, which allow as much as 51
percent foreign ownership in single-brand retail chains.  
 ``Starbucks is reviewing all our options and evaluating how
we will proceed related to our entry into one of the fastest
growing economies in the world,'' Kulthol said in the release.  
 India may increase foreign ownership in single-brand retail
companies in the nation to 100 percent, the Financial Express
reported on July 9, citing a strategy paper prepared by the
government.  
 Starbucks planned to enter India in partnership with
 Kishore Biyani , founder of the country's biggest publicly traded
retailer, and V.P. Sharma, head of the U.S. company's Indonesian
franchise.  
 In January, India's investment board questioned the
shareholding of Sharma in the proposed venture with Biyani.  
 Biyani  
 Biyani declined to comment on Starbucks plan to withdraw
its application. Sharma didn't pick up calls made to his office
after hours.  
 Starbucks said in August last year it was looking for a
venture partner or a licensee to enter India by the end of 2007.  
 The government limits overseas investment in the nation's
retail industry to single-brand merchants, preventing global
chains from buying stakes in local companies or setting up their
own stores.  
 The delay in Starbuck's entry will help existing coffee
chains in the nation such as Barista Coffee Co. and Cafe Coffee
Day to gain market share. Barista and Cafe Coffee Day are
expanding outlets as coffee gains popularity in a market where
tea is still the most popular beverage.  
 India wants to increase coffee consumption to 120,000 tons
annually by 2012 from the current 80,000 tons a year, according
to the state-run Coffee Board. It is aiming to raise consumption
by as much as 10 percent a year from 5 percent growth now.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Saikat Chatterjee in  New Delhi  at 
 schatterjee4@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jason Scott  at   jscott14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        