-- African States Mount Pressure on Ivory Coast President Gbagbo to Resign
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x ,   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-12-18T21:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-18/african-states-mount-pressure-on-ivory-coast-president-gbagbo-to-resign.html
The Economic Community of West
African States formally asked Ivory Coast’s incumbent President
 Laurent Gbagbo  to step aside and make way for  Alassane Ouattara ,
whom the international community has endorsed as the winner of
the Nov. 28 elections, an Ouattara spokesman said.  Chairman of the African Union Commission,  Jean Ping ,
delivered Gbagbo a letter from Ecowas stating he “must comply
promptly” with the vote results,  Ali Coulibaly  told reporters
in the country’s commercial capital, Abidjan, yesterday. The
election has resulted in lethal street clashes between
supporters of the two men.  “It was not a mediation or a negotiation,” Coulibaly said
of Ping’s two-day visit, which ended yesterday.  The United Nations, U.S. and European Union have also
backed Ouattara as the next president of the world’s top cocoa
grower. The EU has threatened to impose travel bans on Gbagbo’s
close advisers if they do not accept the result and at least one
country has offered to host Gbagbo in exile.  Gbagbo today called for United Nations and French
peacekeepers to leave the country, charging they are biased in
favor of Ouattara, spokeswoman Jacqueline Oble said on state-
owned Radio Television Ivorienne.  Ouattara won’t seek outside military intervention, his
spokesman said.  “President Ouattara has opted for peace because he does
not want his mandate to be soiled by blood,” Coulibaly said.  Security forces have fired on civilians who marched on the
state-owned television station. Six people dressed in military
clothes last night followed a UN peacekeeper patrol and shot at
the UN vehicle and base in Abidjan, the UN said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Soldiers have told newspapers that support Ouattara not to
publish, according to Patrice Yao, managing editor of the
Abidjan-based  Le Nouveau Reveil . Today, newspapers supporting
the opposition were unavailable in Abidjan.  The soldiers “went to our distributor last night and
told them they don’t want to see our newspapers appear on the
market,” Yao said in an interview yesterday. “We are barred
from publishing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
 Olivier Monnier  and  Pauline Bax  in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 