-- Harper Says He Doesn't See `Slash and Burn' Canada Budget in Deficit Fight
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-12-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-18/harper-says-he-doesn-t-see-slash-and-burn-canada-budget-in-deficit-fight.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said he doesn’t plan a “slash and burn” budget next
year as his government seeks to eliminate its deficit by 2015.  “We have to make sure any spending we do is targeted on
the economy and on job creation,” Harper said in an interview
with CTV News. “We don’t need to have deep slash and burn.”  Harper and Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  are seeking to
make Canada the first country in the Group of Seven to balance
its budget after a recession, even as the government cuts
corporate income taxes and a weak global recovery threatens to
slow demand for Canadian-made goods.  “Obviously we’ve got to make sure our spending is in
priority areas and it’s not growing,” Harper said in the CTV
interview. “If we do that in the next few years, we should see
enough economic growth to close that deficit gap.”  The government has scheduled a 1.5 percentage-point
reduction in the corporate tax rate on Jan. 1 to 16.5 percent,
and a further cut to 15 percent in 2012. The main opposition
Liberal Party has said it would cancel the reduction, in part to
finance spending for a home-care program.  Canada had a record C$55.6 billion ($54.8 billion) deficit
in the fiscal year that ended March 31. Flaherty has said that
calls from opposition lawmakers for new spending programs and
tax increases would jeopardize the  economic recovery .  Opposition lawmakers will have an opportunity to defeat the
government’s 2011 fiscal plan when it’s introduced in the
legislature next year.  “I’m not going to call an election,” Harper said. “We’re
not bringing forward some kind of poison pill to provoke an
election. We are committed to governing.”  Harper also said he plans a cabinet shuffle early next year
to fill vacancies. The changes won’t be “extensive,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 