-- Australia Acting `Too Late' Over Online Threat to Retailers, Harvey Says
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-18T04:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-18/australia-acting-too-late-over-online-threat-to-retailers-harvey-says.html
Australia’s inquiry into the retail
industry is “too late” to stop some retailers going out of
business due to competition from offshore websites, said  Gerry Harvey , executive chairman of  Harvey Norman Holdings Ltd.   The government doesn’t appreciate the urgency of the threat
facing domestic retailers from overseas-based rivals making use
of the Internet, Harvey said in a telephone interview today.
Harvey Norman is Australia’s largest furniture and electrical
retailer.  “You’ve got every second person in the country importing
things from overseas, evading duty, not paying sales tax,”
Harvey said. “It’s gaining momentum at a rapid rate. Rather
than clip it in the bud, they’ll end up doing something about it,
but it will be too late. You’ve got an awful lot of retailers
that are going to be going broke after Christmas.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government today announced
an inquiry into the impact of globalization on the retail
industry, which includes looking at growth in online purchases
from abroad by consumers.  The Productivity Commission will report its findings in
2011 as the government seeks to safeguard the future of the
A$242 billion ($239 billion) industry, Assistant Treasurer  Bill Shorten  said today in an e-mailed statement.  The Commission will also start a “compliance campaign” to
ensure sales taxes and customs duty concessions on imports
aren’t being exploited, Minister for Home Affairs  Brendan O’Connor  said in the statement.  Online Competitors  “There’s a lot of momentum, through word of mouth, about
internet sales giving people the chance to access a discount,”
said  Angus Gluskie , who manages about $350 million at White
Funds Management Pty in Sydney. “It’s a loophole right around
the world.”  Harvey said a major concern is that overseas online
competitors are able to avoid Australia’s goods and services
taxes.  “You can’t have a situation where a bloke sets up a retail
shop in Australia and sells stuff and has to pay GST, and then
some bloke sets up in America and he doesn’t,” he said. “And
the bloke who sets up his shop in Australia employs people, pays
rent, and these sorts of things. That’s just not on.”  Australian Dollar  The threat to Australian retailers has been exacerbated by
the strengthening Australia dollar, which has increased the
spending power of consumers shopping overseas.  Australia’s currency has advanced 18 percent since the end
of June, the most of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
reaching parity with the U.S. dollar in October for the first
time since July 1982.  White Funds’ Gluskie said the danger to Australian
retailers was sometimes exaggerated.  “The underlying drivers of retail spending are very good
going into next year,” he said by telephone, adding that the
high Australian dollar was an extraneous factor that had made
things seem worse.  Harvey said that an alliance of retailers had been formed
to press their case. The group includes  Westfield Group , the
world’s largest owner of shopping centers, and  Myers Holdings
Ltd. , Australia’s biggest department store chain, the Weekend
Australian reported today.  Advertising Campaign  The report said the alliance was planning newspaper and
television ads similar to those used by the mining industry
against a resources tax, which played a part in toppling former
Labor Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd .  A separate article in the Weekend Australian today said
mining companies are planning a new wave of ads against the
government, believing they were misled over the so-called
mineral resources rent tax that replaced Rudd’s earlier version
of the levy.  “All certain people are doing at the moment is joining
together to try and figure out what to do,” Harvey said. “If
that means mounting an advertising campaign at the same time as
the miners are going to do theirs or whatever, certainly if the
government’s faced with a double onslaught like that, and the
slightest little thing happens out there, see you later
government.”  Harvey said  Harvey Norman  has also considered setting up
websites overseas to avoid some domestic taxes.  “The problem is, we’ll spend the money putting it all
together and by the time we’ve done it, the government will
close us down.” He said the trend towards shopping on overseas
websites affects furniture retailers like Harvey Norman less
than others that sell products such as bicycles, clothing and
watches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  