-- Barry Bonds Seeks to Bar Giambi, Santiago From Testifying at Perjury Trial
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-12-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-18/barry-bonds-seeks-to-bar-giambi-santiago-from-testifying-at-perjury-trial.html
Barry Bonds , Major League Baseball’s
homerun record holder charged with lying to a grand jury about
taking steroids, is seeking to stop the government from calling
 Benito Santiago  and  Jason Giambi  as trial witnesses.  Lawyers for the former San Francisco Giants outfielder seek
to bar testimony by ex-teammate Santiago and former Oakland
Athletics player Giambi. Drug testing and laboratory documents,
calendars and other paperwork from Bay Area Laboratory
Cooperative are also inadmissible at Bonds’s perjury trial under
a 2009 judge’s order that was upheld by an appeals court in
June, the lawyers said in a court filing yesterday.  Bonds, who broke  Hank Aaron ’s record of 755 career home
runs in August 2007, is scheduled to go on trial March 21 on
charges of obstruction of justice and of lying to a federal
grand jury in 2003 when he said he never knowingly took
steroids.  In February 2009, U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston  in San
Francisco barred drug tests that prosecutors said were linked to
Bonds from being shown to jurors at trial because they were
hearsay, Bonds’s lawyers said. Prosecution filings since then
indicate the government plans to introduce “all the same
evidence that was excluded by this court’s order,” according to
yesterday’s filing.  Giambi and Santiago would testify about receiving
performance-enhancing drugs from Bonds’s former trainer and
about being tested for steroids, lawyers for Bonds said in their
filing. That testimony is “irrelevant” in light of Illston’s
2009 order, the lawyers said.  Jack Gillund , a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s office in
San Francisco, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message
seeking comment yesterday.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 