-- Heathrow, Europe Travelers Face Third Day of Disruption on Snow Forecast
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2010-12-19T17:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-18/british-airways-cancels-heathrow-gatwick-flights-as-snow-blankets-europe.html
Air travelers across Europe face a
third day of travel disruption tomorrow as more snow is forecast
for England and Germany.  London’s  Heathrow  said there will be further delays and
cancellations Monday after snow blanketing western Europe
disrupted holiday travel plans during the final weekend before
Christmas. Deutsche Lufthansa AG said it expected a reduction in
flights within Germany and Europe.  Snow is expected tomorrow in the south and west of the
U.K., the Met Office said on its  website , after a fall of 15
centimeters (six inches) yesterday forced the closure of
Heathrow and Gatwick for most of the weekend. Germany can expect
as much as 15 centimeters of snow in the 12 hours from 5:20 p.m.
Berlin time, according to a German Weather Service  forecast .  “There will be further cancellations and delays tomorrow
as we continue to clear snow and ice, as well as in the days
that follow as airlines move diverted aircraft and crew back to
their normal positions,” Heathrow operator BAA Airports Ltd.
said in an e-mailed statement.  Flights at Paris’s  Roissy-Charles de Gaulle  Airport were
reduced by 40 percent because of snowfall in northern France,
the nation’s civil aviation authority said in an e-mailed
statement. The reductions will last through the end of today,
according to the statement. In Scotland, Edinburgh airport said
it was open for departures only.  Snow Clearance  A “handful” of departures were occurring at Heathrow’s
Terminals 3 and 5 today while teams worked to clear an area nine
times larger than London’s Hyde Park,  Donna O’Brien , a BAA
Airports Ltd. spokeswoman, said by telephone. The airport expected
to process 200,000 inbound and outbound passengers today, she said.
Heathrow is posting updates on a  Twitter  feed.  “This is the second time in two days that my flight to
London has been canceled,” said Henry Abrahamian, 61, a
passenger stranded at Vienna airport en route to Los Angeles via
London. “I’ll find my way there eventually, maybe for next
Christmas.”  Etihad Airways, the Abu Dhabi-based intercontinental
carrier, Air Canada and India’s Jet Airways were among airlines
which announced canceled services to Heathrow today.  Gatwick, Eurostar  London’s Gatwick resumed a “good, steady flow rate,”
with 135 departures and 122 arrivals of a total 708 flights
scheduled for the day, Sean McGee, a spokesman for the airport,
said by telephone. Disruptions will likely continue tomorrow,
he said.  Eurostar  trains, which link London to Paris and Brussels,
were running with delays of as much as two hours, Richard
Holligan, a spokesman, said by telephone. Eurostar canceled six
trains today and was encouraging people whose travel isn’t
essential to delay their trips, he said.  Lufthansa extended a plan that reduces the number of
flights within Germany and Europe to Monday, company
spokeswoman Bettina Rittberger said today by phone. Deutsche
Bahn AG said in an e-mail it expects weather disruptions and an
increase in passengers after bottlenecks in the German railway
system this afternoon.  Amsterdam’s  Schiphol  said on its website passengers should
be prepared for delays and cancellations. More than 60 departing
and arriving flights by Air France-KLM Group’s Dutch KLM unit at
Schiphol Airport had been canceled by Sunday afternoon, an
overview for today at the carrier’s website showed.  The situation at Schiphol has improved compared with the
past two days, with all necessary runways available, Dutch news
agency ANP wrote, citing a spokeswoman. Antoinette Spaans, an
airport spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return a phone call by
Bloomberg News seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  