-- Canadian Dollar Falls for Second Week as Investors Lose Appetite for Risk
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-12-18T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-18/canadian-dollar-falls-for-second-week-as-investors-lose-appetite-for-risk.html
Canada’s dollar dropped for a second
week against the greenback as investors turned to the perceived
safety of U.S. government debt on concern Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis will deepen.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
bird on the C$1 coin, retreated from a one-month high as
investors’ risk appetite ebbed and stocks and crude oil pared
advances. The allure of U.S. assets was also burnished as
Treasury yields rose to seven-month highs. Data next week may
show gains slowed in Canadian consumer prices and retail sales.  “The positive equity and commodity story was winning out
at the beginning of the week, but in the second half the issues
in Europe and the risk aversion overwhelmed it,” said  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed income and currency
strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Dominion Securities in
Toronto. “Europe has created a bid tone for the U.S. dollar and
so dollar-Canada.”  The Canadian currency weakened 0.5 percent to C$1.0140 per
U.S. dollar yesterday in New York, from C$1.0091 on Dec. 10. It
touched C$1.0001 on Dec. 15, the strongest level since it last
traded on a one-for one basis with the greenback on Nov. 11. One
Canadian dollar buys 98.62 U.S. cents.  Canadian government bonds rose, pushing the benchmark  10-
year note ’s yield down 12 basis points to 3.19 percent, from
3.30 percent on Dec. 10. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.
The yield touched 3.37 percent Dec. 14, the highest since June
21. The price of the 3.5 percent security due in June 2020
gained 95 cents to C$102.55.  Two-Week Low  The loonie depreciated to a two-week low yesterday,
C$1.0147, as an agreement by European Union leaders at a two-day
summit in Brussels failed to allay concern the debt crisis will
spread from Greece and Ireland to other nations in the region.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Ireland’s credit
rating to Baa1 yesterday from Aa2 after the government was
forced to ask for external aid last month, staggered by losses
in the country’s banking system. The new rating, three levels
above non-investment grade, is the same one carried by countries
that include Russia and Lithuania.  The EU leaders agreed to amend the bloc’s treaties to
create a permanent crisis-management mechanism in 2013.
Divisions flared over steps to prevent the debt crisis from
engulfing Portugal and Spain.  “It’s good there is a mechanism, but on the other hand
it’s in 2013 so there’s a lot of it being discounted from the
market,” said  C.J. Gavsie , managing director for foreign-
exchange trading in Toronto at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital
Markets.  For now, Germany ruled out topping up the current 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) emergency fund or rushing aid to
Portugal or Spain, reinforcing skepticism in markets.  U.S. Yields Surge  The greenback rose against most major counterparts this
week as benchmark  Treasury 10-year  yields surged, touching 3.56
percent on Dec. 16, the highest level since May 13. Prices of
U.S. government securities fell as the Federal Reserve said Dec.
14 the U.S. economic recovery is continuing and Congress passed
an $858 billion bill extending Bush-era tax cuts for two years.
President  Barack Obama  signed the measure into law yesterday.  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, trimmed an advance.
January futures fell as low as $87.01 a barrel in New York
yesterday after rising to $90.76 a barrel on Dec. 7, the highest
level since October 2008. The Standard & Poor’s/Toronto Stock
Exchange Composite Index fell 0.3 percent for the past five
days, the first loss in three weeks.  Gain for Year  The Canadian dollar gained 4.4 percent over the past year
in a measure of 10 developed-nation currencies, Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes showed. The U.S. dollar
fell 1.8 percent.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  may want to consider
selling Canadian dollars as an option to temper gains in the
currency driven by purchases by other central banks,  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,
wrote in a report yesterday.  The loonie’s strength undermines Carney’s ability to raise
interest rates to slow increasing household debt levels,
Shenfeld said in the report. Further gains in the currency may
slow growth, he said.  “There is one weapon yet to be touched: fighting fire with
fire,” Shenfeld wrote. “Canada could match foreign central-
bank intervention in favor of our currency with an offsetting
intervention, selling an equivalent volume of loonies.”  Consumer prices rose last month at an annual pace of 2.2
percent, compared with a 2.4 percent pace in October, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 17
economists before Statistics Canada released the data Dec. 21.  Retail sales rose 0.5 percent in October, after increasing
0.6 percent the previous month, according to a separate
Bloomberg survey. Sales haven’t declined since May. The nation’s
statistics agency will report the data on Dec. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  