-- Obama Says Senate Approval of Russia Nuclear Treaty Would Boost Security
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-12-18T22:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-18/obama-urges-senate-to-follow-tax-cut-measure-with-nuclear-accord.html
President  Barack Obama  today urged
the U.S. Senate to follow its passage of tax-cut compromise
legislation with a vote approving ratification of a nuclear arms
treaty with Russia.  In his weekly radio and Internet address, Obama called the
$858 billion tax measure an “essential economic package” that
was the result of tough negotiations between Democrats and
Republicans. He signed the bill into law yesterday.  The president said he hoped that the two parties could now
work together to approve ratification of the new  Strategic Arms
Reduction Treaty , which would cut U.S. and Russian nuclear
warheads by about one-third. The previous treaty expired in
December 2009. Obama and Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
signed the New START agreement, which must be ratified by both
countries, in April.  “Ratifying a treaty like START isn’t about winning a
victory for an administration or a political party,” Obama
said. “It’s about the safety and security of the United States
of America.”  White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said yesterday he
was optimistic that the treaty would be ratified before the
Senate finishes work for the year.  Republicans Stall  Senate Republicans stalled consideration of the treaty
until the chamber completed work on the tax legislation and
approved a stopgap funding bill to keep the federal government
operating. Some Republicans have said that once those matters
are resolved, they will support the treaty.  “It’s time to get this done,” Obama said. “It’s time to
show the same spirit of common purpose on our security that we
showed this week on our economy.”  In letters today to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and
his Republican counterpart,  Mitch McConnell , Obama said the
agreement wouldn’t allow Russia to restrict U.S. options for
deploying missile defenses against regimes such as Iran.  “The new START Treaty places no limitations on the
development or deployment of our missile-defense program,” the
president said in the letters.  Republican Address  In the Republican address, Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas
said the November elections, in which his party gained control
of the House of Representatives in the next Congress and
narrowed the Democratic majority in the Senate, led to the
compromise that prevented any tax increases.  Cornyn also said Senate Republicans were able to block a
$1.2 trillion year-end spending bill because of support during
the elections.  “This week, even before these new reinforcements have
taken their seats, Republicans showed the American people that
we got the message,” he said. “And everyone can see how your
choices have already changed the terms of the debate here in
Washington.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  