-- Padoa-Schioppa, Euro Architect, Founding Member of ECB Board, Dies at 70
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o ,   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-12-19T13:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-18/padoa-schioppa-founding-member-of-ecb-board-dies-at-70.html
Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa , architect of
the euro currency and founding member of the European Central
Bank’s executive board, has died. He was 70.  Padoa-Schioppa died after suffering a heart attack in Rome
last night while at a dinner with about 100 people, the
newspaper La Repubblica reported on its website.  “Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa was a renowned figure in
international finance and politics, and I am honored to say he
was a dear friend of mine for decades,”  Eugene A. Ludwig , chief
executive officer of Promontory Financial Group, said in a
statement on the company’s website. “His death is a deep loss
to me personally, and will be felt by all those in the
international community who shared his commitment to bringing
about a more civil and decent world order.”  Padoa-Schioppa, who fought for the single currency as a
catalyst for European integration, served on the ECB’s executive
board from 1999 until 2005. He was deputy director general of
the  Bank of Italy  for 13 years, during which time he was passed
over for the governorship in favor of  Antonio Fazio  in 1993. He
was named finance minister under Italian Prime Minister  Romano Prodi  in May 2006, a position he kept until the government
collapsed in January 2008.  The central banker completed a seven-year term on the ECB
board overseeing the euro at the end of May 2005. The only
founding board member to serve longer was Chief Economist  Otmar Issing .  Son of Schoolteacher  “Our new currency unites not only economies, but also the
people of Europe,” he said in June 1999, six months after the
euro’s launch. “The society with these unifying bonds is now
the European society, and not only a national society: this, I
think, represents a profound change in human history.”  Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa was born July 23, 1940, in  Belluno ,
northern Italy. His father, Fabio Padoa-Schioppa, worked in
insurance and was a schoolteacher. He studied at the  Bocconi
University  in Milan, where he got a degree in economics in 1966,
and at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology . He was fluent
in German and English.  He called his family “a cultivated” one in an interview
with the  Guardian  newspaper in 2000. A former artillery officer,
he described both his parents as “intellectual.”  “Tommaso was well-liked and a very capable person,” said
Richard S. Eckaus, Padoa-Schioppa’s thesis supervisor at MIT,
where the Italian was awarded a master’s degree in economics in
1970.  ‘Man of Vision’  Padoa-Schioppa’s devotion to Europe and the euro was clear
even in his jokes. Opening a dinner speech in Frankfurt in
October 2004, he said his topic was the “emu,” an abbreviation
for Economic and Monetary Union as well as the name of an
ostrich-like Australian bird. “Neither,” he said, “can go
backwards.”  “As a man of vision and strong European convictions,
Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa was a powerful voice on the European
monetary scene even before the creation of the euro,” ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said in an e-mailed statement
today. “He contributed decisively in the early years of the
euro to the reputation of the ECB as a major actor in
international and European cooperation.  ‘‘Responsible for the ECB’s tasks in the area of financial
stability, Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa aimed consistently at
enhancing the architecture for financial stability and
supervision in Europe by providing a clear vision for the
medium- to long-term objectives and by making concrete
contributions to strengthening cooperation and coordination
among the competent national authorities,’’ Trichet said.  Single Currency  In 1988, Padoa-Schioppa served as joint secretary to the
Delors Committee, called after the then-president of the
 European Commission , which was formed to investigate how
European Union countries could remove all common trade barriers
by introducing a single currency. The committee came up with a
three-stage plan that was later included in the 1992  Maastricht
Treaty  that instituted the single currency.  Concerned that countries might retreat from their
commitments to the single currency, Padoa-Schioppa developed a
timetable for currency conversion that made it harder for member
countries to back out of the project.  On the flight to Maastricht, he persuaded  Giulio Andreotti ,
then Italian prime minister, to push for the euro’s initiation
in 1999 if a majority of members didn’t agree on a date to start
by 1997, according to  Matt Marshall  in his 1999 book on the
euro’s creation called  ‘‘The Bank.”   Currency Without State  The euro was introduced on Jan. 1, 1999, and was coined “a
currency without a state” by Padoa-Schioppa.  “I do not think that a single currency is an event for the
last days of the history of mankind that simply crowns
perfection,” he said in his testimony before the  European
Parliament  in May 1998. “It is something that has to be in
reality while reality evolves.”  Padoa-Schioppa was picked to serve as  Italian finance
minister  at a time when the country’s economy had stalled for
two out of five years and the debt burden had ballooned to the
largest in the EU. He focused on cutting government spending,
often taking low-cost airlines to international meetings.  His efforts to cut spending ensured Italy’s budget deficit
fell below the EU limit in 2007 for the first time since 2002.
Before him, the annual deficit had widened to 4.3 percent of
 gross domestic product  in 2005, a 10-year high at the time.  IMF Committee Head  The Brussels-based European Commission estimated on Nov. 29
that Italy’s budget deficit will be 4.3 percent of GDP next
year, worse than the government’s 3.9 percent forecast.  In 2007, Padoa-Schioppa was named chairman of the
International Monetary Fund’s policy advisory committee, a
position he maintained even after Prodi’s government collapsed.
He was replaced in May 2008 by Egyptian Finance Minister  Youssef Boutros-Ghali .  Promontory Europe, the European unit of the financial-
services consulting firm Promontory Financial Group, named
Padoa-Schioppa as its chairman in June 2009. Four days ago, Fiat
Industrial SpA appointed him to the board of the unit being spun
off from the carmaker next month.  The Italian national helped Italy, regarded for years as
the weakest euro member by investors, curb its  deficit . Those
skills will aid Greece, which only avoided default after the EU
and the IMF forged a bailout worth 110 billion euros ($141
billion).  Padoa-Schioppa’s pro-bono assignment added Greece to a
curriculum spanning 37 years of public service, beginning at the
Bank of Italy in Rome in 1968 and including stints running the
bank’s money-market and economic-research divisions before
becoming deputy director general for 13 years from 1984.  “I am independent, I don’t have conflicts of interest and
I won’t get paid for what I do,” he said about his new
position.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  