-- Panama Canal Expansion Project Called `Disaster' in U.S. Diplomatic Cable
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2010-12-18T21:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-18/panama-s-varela-calls-canal-expansion-disaster-cables-say.html
Panamanian Vice President Juan
Carlos Varela called the Panama Canal expansion a “disaster”
after a group led by Spain’s  Sacyr Vallehermoso SA  won a $3.1
billion contract to accommodate larger ships, a confidential
U.S. diplomatic cable said.  The cable, released by WikiLeaks and  published  today in
Madrid’s El Pais newspaper, said that Varela expressed concerns
that Sacyr is in “deep financial trouble” and may not be able
to complete the work.  “The Canal expansion project is a disaster,” the cable
cited Varela as saying at a lunch with U.S. Ambassador Barbara
Stephenson on Dec. 29, 2009. “In two to three years, it will be
obvious this is all a failure.”  The ambassador’s office had “provided relentless
advocacy” for Bechtel Group Inc., the largest U.S. engineering
company, in its failed bid to win the largest contract for the
$5.25 billion canal expansion, according to the cable.  Sacyr is working with Italy’s  Impregilo SpA  to build a
third set of locks that will allow bigger ships to traverse the
canal by 2014. The contract was awarded in July 2009.  The El Pais article had no response from Sacyr on the
cables. In August, the company called the canal bidding process
“exemplary,”  according  to today’s El Pais story. Calls and e-
mails by Bloomberg News seeking comment from Sacyr and Varela’s
offices outside of business hours weren’t returned.  The Panama Canal Authority, in an e-mailed response to the
article, said as the waterway’s operator it “shields” itself
from any outside pressure.  Expansion of the 80-kilometer (50-mile) canal, which
connects the Pacific and Atlantic oceans, remains on schedule
after heavy rains caused the waterway’s first closure in more
than 20 years,  Alberto Aleman , the canal’s chief executive
officer, said in an interview on Dec. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Sabo  in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  