-- TPG, GIC Buy Delta Dunia Stakes in Bet Demand for Indonesian Coal to Climb
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-12-18T09:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-18/tpg-gic-buy-delta-dunia-stakes-in-bet-demand-for-indonesian-coal-to-climb.html
TPG Capital and  Government of
Singapore Investment Corp.  have invested in  PT Delta Dunia
Makmur , which owns Indonesia’s second-biggest coal mining
contractor, as they bet on growth for the resources industry.  David Bonderman ’s TPG and GIC, which manages Singapore’s
reserves, bought non-voting shares in Northstar Tambang Persada
Ltd., an investment vehicle which  owns  40 percent of Delta Dunia,
according to a letter filed to the Indonesian stock exchange
today.  TPG and GIC bought the shares from Indonesia’s Widjaya
family, which owns  Sinar Mas Group , and the previous owners of
Delta Dunia,  Ashish Shastry , TPG’s head for Southeast Asia, said
in an interview today. TPG, GIC and Northstar Equity Partners, a
Jakarta-based private-equity firm backed by TPG, are now the
only shareholders in the vehicle, he said.  This is one of the biggest private equity investments in
Indonesia, Shastry said, declining to disclose the value of the
transaction. Northstar Tambang Persada’s stake in Delta Dunia is
worth about $400 million, based on the current market value of
the company.  Indonesia overtook Australia to become the world’s biggest
exporter of power-station coal in 2005, and prices for the fuel,
set annually, rose 40 percent this year, according to Morgan
Stanley. Indonesia’s coal industry is set to “grow
substantially” in the coming years to meet demand from China
and India, the world’s fastest-growing major economies, he said.  ‘Big Believers’  “We are big believers in the Indonesian coal sector,”
Shastry said. “Indonesian coal is globally the most cost-
competitive coal for India and China.”  Jakarta-based Delta Dunia wholly owns PT Bukit Makmur
Mandiri Utama, or Buma, Indonesia’s second-largest coal-mining
contractor.  “Buma is less susceptible to coal prices going up and
down; they are really a volume player,” Shastry said.  GIC is also invested in coal producer PT Adaro Indonesia.  Northstar Equity Partners will continue to retain voting
rights and a controlling interest in the investment vehicle,
according to the letter. Northstar will also still own a stake
in the non-voting shares, Jakarta-based  Patrick Walujo , co-
founder of the Indonesian private-equity firm, said in the same
interview in Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  