-- Senate Blocks Measure to Give Legal Status to Younger Illegal Immigrants
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-12-19T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-18/senate-blocks-measure-to-give-legal-status-to-younger-illegal-immigrants.html
A group of Senate Democrats joined
Republicans yesterday to block a measure allowing legal status
for some younger illegal immigrants, a new setback for advocates
who have sought the immigration-law change for a decade.  The Senate’s 55-41 vote was short of the 60 required to
take up the bill. It signals bleak prospects for the measure as
well as any broader immigration overhaul after Republicans take
control of the House and gain five Senate seats in January.  The House Dec. 8 passed the measure, 216-198, with
supporters saying it would help the U.S. economy by adding
educated, ambitious young people to the workforce. Called the
DREAM Act, the legislation would allow people who were brought
to the U.S. illegally before age 16 and remain for at least five
years to gain legal residency after going to college or serving
in the military for at least two years.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
promised Latino groups and others favoring a comprehensive
overhaul that he would advance the bill as a “down payment” to
keep momentum in the debate over immigration. He and other
backers said it would aid immigrants who have been educated here
and could contribute to the economy.  “Millions of children who grew up as Americans will be
able to get the education they need to contribute to our
economy,” he said during debate on the bill. “Many who have
volunteered to defend our country will no longer have to fear
being deported.”  Amnesty  Republicans largely united against the legislation, with
some arguing it provided amnesty for illegal immigrants.
Opponents said it would provide legal status to people beyond
their college years and give a safe harbor to some undocumented
immigrants with criminal records.  “The first thing you do is you don’t reward it,” said
Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, the top Republican on the
Judiciary Committee. “The second thing you want to do is end
the massive illegality that’s occurring in this country.”  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday the vote was
“incredibly disappointing,” and vowed to continue seeking
consensus on the divisive issue of immigration.  “It is disappointing that common sense did not prevail,”
Obama said in a prepared statement. “But my administration will
not give up on the DREAM Act, or on the important business of
fixing our broken immigration system.”  Republican Support  Similar legislation failed in 2007, though it was supported
by 12 Republican senators, including  Orrin Hatch  of Utah and Kay
Bailey Hutchison of Texas. The party has since opposed
liberalizing immigration law amid a voter backlash against
illegal aliens and security lapses on the U.S.-Mexico border.  In yesterday’s vote, just three Republicans voted to let
the debate go forward --  Robert Bennett  of Utah,  Lisa Murkowski 
of Alaska and  Richard Lugar  of Indiana. Five Democrats voted to
help block the measure, including  Mark Pryor  of Arkansas,  Max Baucus  of Montana,  Kay Hagan  of North Carolina,  Ben Nelson  of
Nebraska and  Jon Tester  of Montana.  Congressional Republicans’ current stance contrasts with
the efforts of former President George W. Bush to reach out to
Latino voters to expand the party’s base. The harder line by
Republicans bears political risks that may echo through the 2012
presidential campaign, said Manuel Pastor, a professor of
American Studies and Ethnicities at the University of Southern
California in Los Angeles.  ‘Frightened Away’ Voters  “The anti-illegal-immigration rhetoric has frightened away
Latino voters” from the Republican Party, Pastor said.  Hispanics -- the fastest growing U.S. minority, making up
15 percent of the population, according to Census figures --will
be a deciding factor in a number of states in the 2012
presidential election, said Robert de Posada, president of
Latinos for Reform, a political action committee that urged
Latinos not to vote in the Nov. 2 midterm elections.  “You cannot win a presidential election without a
significant amount of the Hispanic vote,” said de Posada, a
former director of Hispanic affairs at the Republican National
Committee. The party must become more welcoming to Latinos if it
wants a shift in the ethnic group’s voting behavior, he said.  Stepping Up the Effort  Congressional Democrats have worked to forestall their own
backlash from groups backing a broad-based immigration overhaul
by stressing their effort to move ahead with the narrower DREAM
Act. The Obama administration in recent weeks stepped up
lobbying for it, with Education Secretary  Arne Duncan , Defense
Secretary Robert Gates and Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  calling lawmakers to urge support.  Senate Democratic leaders said after the vote they won’t
give up on the immigration issue in the next session of
Congress. Senator  Chuck Schumer , a New York Democrat, said he is
seeking bipartisan support for a broad measure that would wrap
in the DREAM Act and hopes to introduce it in 2011.  “It will be tough” due to the political volatility of the
immigration issue, he said. Still, “immigration reform is
hardly dead.”  The immigration debate has been shunted to the background
since Obama took office in January 2009 and said an overhaul was
a top priority. The issue was set aside as a drive to overhaul
health care took precedence and dragged on longer than expected.  Senate Democrats in April drafted a proposal to boost
border security before later providing a way for a portion of
the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants to become U.S.
citizens.  Border Security  The only significant immigration legislation to clear
Congress in the past two years was a $600 million border
security law Obama signed in August. It included funding to hire
1,500 Border Patrol, Customs and other agents along the border
with Mexico.  When Republicans take control of the House in January, the
pushback against illegal immigrants will grow stronger.
Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who will become
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, says he will focus on
border security and cracking down on companies that hire
undocumented workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  