-- Senate Advances Repeal of `Don't Ask, Don't Tell' Ban on Gays in Military
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2010-12-18T18:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-18/senate-advances-repeal-of-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-ban-on-gays-in-military.html
The Senate cleared the way today to
repeal the U.S. ban on military service by openly gay men and
women.  The Senate’s 63-33 procedural vote was more than the 60
votes needed to go ahead with a final vote this afternoon.
Opponents had used Senate rules to block consideration even
though a majority of senators said they would vote to repeal.  President  Barack Obama , who promised to repeal the 1993
law, praised the vote as “an historic step toward ending a
policy that undermines our national security while violating the
very ideals that our brave men and women in uniform risk their
lives to defend.”  “Don’t ask, don’t tell” was considered a compromise when
first passed. It allowed gays to serve if their sexual
orientation were kept private.  Passage of the repeal would overturn laws, policies and
cultural mores that have prohibited gays from serving openly in
the U.S. military since the American Revolution.  “Today the Senate has the opportunity to be on the right
side of history,”  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, said on the
Senate floor today.  More than 14,000 service members have been discharged for
being gay since 1993, according to the  Servicemembers Legal
Defense Network , a gay-rights advocacy group.  Critics, including Arizona Republican  John McCain  and the
commandant of the Marine Corps,  General James Amos , said
repealing the ban would be a threat to “good order and
discipline” in the military in a time of war. They asked that
any change be delayed.  First Casualty  “The first casualty in the war in Iraq was a gay
soldier,” Senator  Carl Levin , chairman of the  Senate Armed
Services Committee  and a Michigan Democrat, said today. “We
cannot let these patriots down.”  Passage of the repeal, first approved by the House in May,
would be a win for Obama just weeks after his self-described
“shellacking” in November’s mid-term elections.  Eliminating the “don’t ask, don’t tell” law doesn’t
immediately change Pentagon policy. Under the legislation, the
ban would remain in effect until 60 days after Obama and
Pentagon leaders certify that the Defense Department is ready
for the new policy.  Defense officials have not said how long that process could
take. A Pentagon task force, in a report issued last month,
outlined numerous revisions to training, military education and
regulations that would be needed.  ‘Sequenced Implementation’  Senator  Jim Webb  of Virginia, a Democrat and former Navy
secretary who voted to advance the bill, said he received
written confirmation from Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  that
the repeal would have “a sequenced implementation of the
provisions for different units in the military.”  Gates and Admiral  Mike Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, urged Congress to repeal the policy so the Defense
Department could make the change without a sudden intervention
by the courts. A federal trial judge in September ruled the ban
unconstitutional and the case is under appeal.  Final approval of the repeal measure seemed assured after
today’s procedural vote, when six Republicans joined Democrats
to advance the bill. One Democrat, newly elected Senator  Joe Manchin  of West Virginia, and three Republicans did not vote.  With enough votes assured to claim victory, Senate
Democrats joined gay-rights leaders at a press conference to
cheer the expected result later today.  “America made history today,” said Joe Solmonese,
president of the  Human Rights Campaign . “We are grateful
America recognized we should be able to serve our nation openly
and honestly.”  Public Support  Repealing the policy enjoys public support. A Washington
Post-ABC News poll this month found that 77 percent of Americans
say gay and lesbian service members who disclose their sexual
orientation should continue serving.  Prospects for passage of the repeal appeared in jeopardy
for months. The House had approved repealing the ban in May as
part of annual defense legislation that authorizes all military
programs.  Saturday’s Senate vote came on a separate version of the
repeal passed by the House on Dec. 15. Representative  Barney Frank , a gay Democrat from Massachusetts, said the maneuver
helped “strip away any excuse” for not voting on the repeal.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 David Lerman  at   dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  