-- UN Security Council Meets on Korea Crisis as South Plans Artillery Drill
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-12-19T17:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-18/south-korea-may-delay-artillery-drill-to-next-week-amid-north-korea-threat.html
The United Nations Security Council
convened an emergency meeting on tensions in the Korean
peninsula as South Korea said it will hold a maritime artillery
drill in the next two days.  The artillery exercises will take place on Dec. 20 or Dec.
21, a spokesman at the Joint Chiefs of Staff who declined to be
named, citing military policy, said today by telephone in Seoul.
North Korea warned it will retaliate if the exercise takes
place.  Shelling by South Korea “would make it impossible to
prevent the situation on the Korean peninsula from exploding,”
North Korea’s state-run Korean Central News Agency cited the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs as saying in a statement yesterday.
South Korea sees no reason for abandoning the drill just because
other countries say it shouldn’t happen, the South Korean
military spokesman said today.  Russia requested the emergency UN meeting, saying the
Security Council “must send a restraining signal” to North
Korea and South Korea. Tensions have risen since a barrage of
shells from North Korea hit South Korea’s Yeonpyeong Island last
month killing two civilians and two soldiers, the first shelling
of South Korean soil since the 1950-1953 war.  The Security Council, meeting in New York today, must
“help launch diplomatic activity with a view to resolving all
issues of dispute between the two Korean sides by political and
diplomatic means,”  Vitaly Churkin , Russia’s UN ambassador, said
in a statement yesterday.  Armed Forces  North Korea’s armed forces will “mete out decisive and
merciless punishment” if its sovereignty is violated, KCNA
cited the Foreign Ministry spokesman as saying yesterday. The
U.S. is to blame for prompting South Korea to carry out its
provocative shelling in November, it said.  New Mexico Governor  Bill Richardson , on an unofficial visit
to North Korea, met yesterday with the Pyongyang government’s
chief nuclear negotiator, Kim Gye Gwan, and is scheduled to hold
further talks with North Korean officials today, CNN reported.  “This is a tinderbox,” Richardson told CNN’s Wolf
Blitzer, who accompanied him on the visit. “Right now my
objective is to say, tamp things down.”  South Korea said yesterday that bad weather might prevent
conducting the artillery drill at the weekend. Yeonpyeong Island
will be cloudy tomorrow and on Dec. 21, the Korea Meteorological
Administration said on its website.  U.S. State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said the
planned drill “is a perfectly legitimate step” by South Korea.
About 20 U.S. military personnel arrived on the island to
provide telecommunications and medical assistance, the Maeil
Business Newspaper said on its website today.  China ‘Deeply Concerned’  Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  spoke to Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  by phone yesterday, saying
tensions on the Korean Peninsula may worsen, the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs said on its website today. China resolutely
opposes any behavior that can lead to an escalation, Yang said.  China said it’s “deeply concerned” about the “extremely
precarious” situation on the peninsula, Xinhua News Agency
reported yesterday, citing Vice Foreign Minister  Zhang Zhijun .  Igor Morgulov, a director of the Russian Foreign Ministry’s
Asian department, expressed “extreme concern” over North
Korea’s readiness to use military force in a phone call Dec. 17
with North Korean Ambassador Kim Yong-Jae.  “All contentious issues between the two Koreas should be
resolved by the resumption of dialogue and exclusively by
political and diplomatic means,” Morgulov said in a statement
on the Foreign Ministry’s website.  Mt. Geumgang  South Korea’s unification minister held a meeting early
yesterday to review the situation at Mt. Geumgang, Yonhap News
said, citing an unidentified ministry official. The $300 million
North Korean tourist resort, 97 miles (156 kilometers) northeast
of Seoul, is jointly operated by the two sides and hosts
reunions of families separated after their war.  The ministry is “closely watching” the situation and is
reviewing emergency measures after North Korea’s threat to
respond to South Korean artillery drills, Yonhap said.  South Korea issued a warning to civilian ships Dec. 17 on
 the website  of the Korea Hydrographic and Oceanographic
Administration.  North Korea doesn’t recognize the western sea border
demarcated by the United Nations after the war and demands it
should be drawn further south to include Yeonpyeong and
neighboring islands in North Korean waters.  “No one in the world would allow those who drew a line
inside other’s court, without its owner’s knowledge, and insist
it belongs to them and shamelessly conduct saber-rattling to
preserve it,” KCNA said in its statement Dec. 17.  Retaliation to any further attack would include airstrikes,
South Korea’s Defense Minister  Kim Kwan Jin  said on Dec. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  