-- Sunderland Beats Bolton in Premier League as Snow Postpones Seven Matches
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-12-18T17:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-18/sunderland-beats-bolton-in-premier-league-as-snow-postones-seven-matches.html
Sunderland beat Bolton 1-0 in
English soccer’s Premier League as seven other games had to be
postponed because of heavy snowfalls, including tomorrow’s
meeting between Chelsea and Manchester United.  Danny Welbeck  scored the only goal as Sunderland jumped
over Bolton into sixth place in the standings.  “To get the three points and get ahead of Bolton was
terrific going into the Christmas break,” Welbeck told Sky
Sports.  In the day’s other game, Blackburn tied last-place West Ham
1-1 in its first match since manager  Sam Allardyce  was fired.  Wigan’s home game with Aston Villa and Liverpool’s match
against Fulham were postponed this morning after overnight snow
in northwest England. Birmingham’s game against Newcastle was
called off about noon on safety grounds and the Arsenal-Stoke
match soon followed as heavy snow fell in north London.  Chelsea said on its  website  that tomorrow’s game at
Stamford Bridge against first-place Manchester United was
postponed “following consultation with the police and the local
authority.” Tomorrow’s two other matches -- Blackpool versus
Tottenham and West Brom against Wolverhampton -- have also been
called off.  Welbeck’s goal kept Sunderland unbeaten at home this
season. The Black Cats have won five and drawn four at the
Stadium of Light to join Manchester United as the only Premier
League teams not to lose at home.  Sunderland took the lead in the 32nd minute as Welbeck
dived to head home the rebound after goalkeeper  Jussi Jaaskelainen  blocked  Darren Bent ’s shot. Sunderland keeper  Craig Gordon  then saved a point-blanks hot from Zat Knight just before
halftime to keep the Black Cats in front.  Junior Stanislas’s goal in the 78th minute gave West Ham
the draw at Blackburn, which got a score from  Ryan Nelsen .
Interim manager Steve Kean led Rovers after Allardyce was fired
five days ago by the club’s new owner.  The draw extends West Ham’s away winless run to 27 games,
dating back to the opening day of last season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  