-- U.S. Bank Collapses Reach 157 This Year as Six More Lenders Are Shuttered
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-18T01:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-18/u-s-bank-collapses-reach-157-this-year-as-six-more-lenders-are-shuttered.html
Regulators shuttered six banks
holding a total of $1.23 billion in assets, including three in
Georgia and one each in Arkansas, Minnesota and Florida, as
real-estate losses drive this year’s bank failures to 157.  Florida has lost 29 lenders this year while 21 banks in
Georgia were seized, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said
today in statements on its website. Regulators have  closed  322
banks since the start of 2008. Today’s six closures cost the
FDIC’s deposit-insurance fund a total of $267.6 million.  “We’re over the hump in terms of number of failures and
the average size, and potentially in the cost of them,”  Bert Ely , a banking consultant in Alexandria, Virginia, said in an
interview. The crisis is “far from over but we’re making
headway.”  This week’s failures may be the final closures for 2010
because regulators seldom shut down banks on holiday weekends,
Ely said. The next two Fridays are Christmas Eve, a market
holiday in the U.S., and New Year’s Eve.  More than 500 banks may fail before the cycle that started
in 2007 comes to a close, “given the severity of the problems
and the prolonged nature of the recovery,” Ely said.  The FDIC said last month that its list of “problem” banks
-- those at heightened risk of failure -- rose 3.7 percent to
860 in the third quarter, the most in 17 years. Banks on the
confidential list had $379.2 billion in assets as of Sept. 30,
down from $403 billion at the end of the second quarter.  Property Values  The financial crisis drove down home and commercial
property values and pushed the unemployment rate above 10
percent. The U.S. economy rose 2.5 percent in the third quarter
after declining as much as 6.8 percent in the fourth quarter of
2008, according to the U.S. Department of Commerce. The average
over the last 20 years is growth of 2.9 percent.  The largest failure today was Coral Gables, Florida-based
Bank of Miami, which was purchased by  1st United Bancorp  of Boca
Raton, the FDIC said. 1st United picked up almost $375 million
in deposits, more than $442 million in assets and three branches.  “Their deposits are safe, FDIC-insured, and readily
accessible,” 1st United Chief Executive Officer  Rudy Schupp 
said in a statement. “Customers will be able to conduct
business as usual at their existing branch locations with their
familiar banking associates.”  Three banks in Georgia were shuttered, the largest being
Chestatee State Bank of Dawsonville, the FDIC said. Little Rock,
Arkansas-based  Bank of the Ozarks Inc.  added about $240 million
in deposits and four branches with the Chestatee purchase.  Bank Rises to Record  Bank of the Ozarks rose to a  record close  of $42.60 today
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. It has surged 46 percent this
year. This is the lender’s fourth failed-bank purchase this year,
according to FDIC data.  Regulators also closed United Americas Bank, of Atlanta,
and Appalachian Community Bank of McCaysville, Georgia, the FDIC
said. Macon, Georgia-based State Bank and Trust Co. bought
United, and Madisonville, Tennessee-based Peoples Bank of East
Tennessee purchased Appalachian.  In Arkansas, regulators shut First Southern Bank of
Batesville and the FDIC sold it to Southern Bank, based in
Missouri. Southern paid the FDIC a 0.25 percent premium to
acquire almost $156 million in deposits at First Southern.  Farmers & Merchants Savings Bank of Manchester, Iowa,
purchased Community National Bank of Lino Lakes, Minnesota. It
was the eighth bank to be closed by regulators in Minnesota this
year, the FDIC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  