-- Zhou Says China Is Trying to Consider Economic Policy's Impact on Stocks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-18T06:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-18/zhou-says-china-is-trying-to-consider-economic-policy-s-impact-on-stocks.html
China is weighing possible effects
on the stock market when deciding economic policy,  China Central
Television  reported today, citing central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan .  “We are trying our best in making policy decisions to take
the stock market reaction into account,” the People’s Bank of
China chief said in an interview with the state broadcaster.
“But when you only have a limited number of policy tools, you
can hardly cover all the bases.”  Zhou’s comments come as  China’s inflation  climbed to a 28-
month high in November and officials pledged this month to shift
to a tighter, “prudent” monetary policy in 2011. The nation
lags Asian countries including Malaysia and South Korea in
boosting borrowing costs.  China increased interest rates in October for the first
time since 2007 as inflation reached 4.4 percent on an annual
basis, the highest since September 2008. Since then, the central
bank has raised reserve requirements for lenders three times in
five weeks. The last increase was on Dec. 10.  The  Shanghai Composite Index , the worst performer among
major Asian benchmarks this year, has fallen 7.7 percent since
reaching an almost seven-month high on Nov. 8, on concern that
monetary tightening will curb economic growth. The gauge has
lost 11.7 percent this year.  Prudent Approach  November’s consumer prices rose a greater-than-estimated
5.1 percent from a year earlier, the statistics bureau reported
on Dec. 11.  Even so, the government is taking a prudent approach to
increasing interest rates because of an unstable and rapidly
changing global situation, China Daily reported yesterday,
citing Zhou, without saying where he made the comments.  The central bank last used the term “prudent” for
monetary policy in 2007 before shifting to a tighter stance as
overheating risks increased. The government had described the
monetary stance as “moderately loose” since late 2008.  China still has room to boost stocks and bond financing and
needs more reforms, Zhou said in today’s interview with CCTV.
Pension funds may be important investors in the future, he said.  -- Li Yanping ,  Liza Lin ,  Zheng Lifei . Editors:  Sam Waite , Jim
McDonald  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3047 or
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  