-- `Crisis of Trust' Requires Exchange Trading of Securities, Peterffy Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-10-11T23:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/-crisis-of-trust-requires-exchange-trading-of-securities-peterffy-says.html
Market fragmentation has led to a
“crisis of trust” among investors that U.S. regulators could
help remedy by forcing broker-dealers to send orders to public
exchanges, said  Thomas Peterffy , chairman and chief executive
officer of  Interactive Brokers Group Inc.   Internalization, as the process of handling orders in-house
is called, risks making the prices on exchanges less reliable,
he told an audience of regulators and bourses at the  World
Federation of Exchanges annual meeting in Paris  today.  “To the public, the financial markets may increasingly
seem like a casino except that the casino is more transparent
and simpler to understand,” said Peterffy, one of the earliest
advocates of using technology to improve the efficiency of
trading on exchanges. “Just as the emerging markets led by the
BRICs are doing a wonderful job establishing their market
economies with their exchanges as their centerpieces, we have a
crisis of trust in the developed world.”  Rules and technology that allow brokers to compete
electronically with exchanges and the rise of high-frequency
trading, in which firms use automated systems to transact
thousands of buy and sell orders a second, have put pressure on
market makers such as Interactive Brokers. These firms must meet
obligations to provide public quotations for investors that
rival brokers and traders don’t face. Peterffy said in September
that his Greenwich, Connecticut-based firm may withdraw from
official market making in some options on U.S. exchanges.  ‘Why Should They?’  “It is not so much anymore that the public does not trust
their brokers,” Peterffy said in a speech today. “They do not
trust the markets, the exchanges or the regulators either. And
why should they, given our showing in the past few years?”  The practice of brokers internalizing orders from customers
prevents buying and selling demand from coming together to
produce the fairest prices, he said. Discount brokers send
orders to firms that internalize them to avoid fees on exchanges
and benefit from payments made by those companies, Peterffy
added. Discount brokers say the fees lower trading commissions
they charge retail customers. The firms usually get better
prices for customers through internalizing brokers than they
could receive on exchanges, where official market makers compete
with high-frequency traders.  “Exchanges must be able to convince their governments,
their regulators and the public that open competition among
bidders will result in a better price than no competition, and
that the more orders that go to the exchange, the more
competition there will be,” Peterffy said. Market makers should
also have advantages over high-frequency traders, he said.  One-Third  In the U.S. almost a third of volume in stocks and
exchange-traded funds takes place off exchanges, according to
 data  compiled by Bats Global Markets, an exchange operator in
Kansas City, Missouri.  The internalization of orders from individual investors
isn’t new. The SEC has tried since at least the 1990s to pare
back the payments discount brokers get by shrinking the amount
market makers are able to pay for orders without suppressing
competition. In a recent paper, two former regulators said
customers may benefit when orders transact at venues that aren’t
public exchanges.  Robert Colby  and  Erik Sirri  described internalization in a
paper published in April as an effort by market makers to
segment the types of orders they interact with to reduce the
risk of trading with parties that are better informed, which
could hurt their profitability. Mutual funds and other
institutions also seek trades in dark pools, or private venues
that don’t display prices, to avoid information about their buy
or sell interest leaking to other market participants, they said
in their  paper  in Capital Markets Law Journal.  Seeing Advantages  “Even though it benefits investors collectively that their
orders all meet to interact, particular investors may see
advantages in executing their orders outside of a single
consolidated market,” they wrote. Colby joined law firm Davis
Polk & Wardwell LLP as a partner in 2009 after a decade and a
half at the SEC, most recently as deputy director of the
commission’s division of trading and markets. Sirri, a finance
professor at Babson College in Babson Park, Massachusetts, was
that division’s director from 2006 until 2009.  Competition between  markets  has also made it tougher for
brokers to get the best executions possible for their clients,
Peterffy said. Discount brokers in the U.S. send most market
orders, or requests to trade at the best price immediately
available, to brokers that internalize orders.  ‘Too Many Exchanges’  “Having too many exchanges creates difficulties for
brokers and regulators and undermines the very purpose of an
exchange,” Peterffy said. Connecting to multiple markets and
deciding where to send orders is an expensive and complex
process for brokers that depends on “who the order belongs to
and how much each exchange charges or rebates for what product
and for what kind of order,” he said.  Many U.S. and European stock exchanges pay those providing
buy and sell requests for investors to trade with and charge
firms that execute against those orders, pocketing the
difference between the rebate and fee. Options venues employ
different rules that sometimes allow customers to trade for free
and sometimes charge or rebate those using the market. Some
exchanges have tiered pricing based on volume or fees that
depend on the type of product traded.  Brokerage Reports  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has said the agency will
consider updating the statistics and data brokers must collect
and publish quarterly about where they send orders, as well as
the information exchanges provide monthly about the executions
on their platforms.  “Customers would benefit from better enforcement of best
execution and the SEC should look into it,” Peterffy said in an
interview after his speech.  While competition in stocks and options has increased,
there are now too many exchanges, Peterffy said today. The U.S.
has 12 stock exchanges and eight options markets, with one more
of each planned for this month.  “If there are fewer than three exchanges in a given
product space, the entrance of more should be encouraged,” he
said. “But when we get to five or six, some consolidation
should be in order.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
 Nandini Sukumar  in Paris at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 