-- Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank Said to Plan Sukuk Sale, Hire Managers for Issue
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 2010-10-11T09:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/abu-dhabi-islamic-bank-said-to-plan-sukuk-sale-hire-managers-for-issue.html
Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC, the
United Arab Emirates’ second-biggest lender complying with
Shariah, hired three banks to help sell bonds, according to two
bankers familiar with the plan.  HSBC Holdings Plc, the second-biggest underwriter of sukuk
this year, Standard Chartered Plc and Barclays Plc will manage
the sale, said the bankers, who declined to be identified
because the terms haven’t been made public. ADIB may start
meeting investors this month, one of the bankers said.  Bond sales from the Gulf region have picked up since state-
controlled Dubai World in September reached an agreement with 99
percent of its creditors to alter the terms on $24.9 billion of
debt. Dubai Electricity & Water Authority plans to meet fixed-
income investors starting today, a banker said last week. The
Dubai government last month raised $1.25 billion in its first
bond sale since the Dubai World debt crisis.  ADIB has a $5 billion sukuk trust certificate program,
according to a  base prospectus  dated July 8 posted by the bank
on the London Stock Exchange’s website. The bonds will be issued
from “time to time” in any currency, it said.  ADIB’s  five-year, floating-rate sukuk traded at 98.67 cents
on the dollar on Oct. 8, close to its highest level in a year,
prices on Bloomberg show. The bank has an A2 credit rating, the
sixth-highest investment grade, at Moody’s Investors Service.  A Dubai-based official for HSBC declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News today. Barclays and Standard
Chartered didn’t reply to e-mails seeking comment. Officials at
Abu Dhabi-based ADIB didn’t immediately reply to phone calls
seeking comments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net 
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 