-- Lack of `Currency War' Prevention at IMF Meeting Supports Euro, Citi Says
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-11T11:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/lack-of-currency-war-prevention-at-imf-meeting-supports-euro-citi-says.html
The euro will remain supported
against the dollar after world leaders failed to find steps to
prevent further differences over currencies at last weekend’s
International Monetary Fund meeting, Citigroup Inc. said.  Officials in the euro region are likely to be “less
critical” of the Federal Reserve’s monetary policy of keeping
borrowing costs low, as it will help boost demand for riskier
assets, including debt from countries such as Greece, Ireland,
Portugal and Spain, wrote  Valentin Marinov , a London-based
Citigroup currency strategist.  Exchange rates dominated the IMF’s annual meeting over the
weekend on concern that governments are relying on cheaper
currencies to support growth. China was accused of undervaluing
the yuan, while the dollar has been weakened amid record low
interest rates in the U.S. and speculation that the Fed may soon
resume its asset-buying program, known as quantitative easing.  “With still little evidence that the relentless rise in
the euro of late is impacting the euro-area economy, however, we
think it will take longer for the ECB to openly express concerns
about the level of the euro,” Marinov wrote in an e-mailed
note.  The euro rose 4.8 percent against its major trading peers
over the past month, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. That makes it the best-performing currency
over that time, even as concern lingers about sovereign debt
from Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain.  The euro was little changed against the dollar at $1.3937
as of 11:41 a.m. in London. The common currency rose to 114.33
yen from 114.19 yen last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  