-- Ladbrokes Earnings More Than Double on World Cup Betting, Slots
-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 2010-10-11T08:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/ladbrokes-says-its-third-quarter-operating-profit-has-doubled-on-world-cup.html
Ladbrokes Plc , the U.K. bookmaker
founded in 1886, said third-quarter operating profit more than
doubled, boosted by betting on soccer’s World Cup and higher win
percentages on games.  Operating profit gained 128 percent to 51.1 million pounds
($81.4 million) in the period, the Harrow, England-based company
said in a statement. Ladbrokes said the company is “on track”
to meet its full-year forecasts.  Richard Glynn, who took over as chief executive officer in
April, revamped his management team in August and changed
gambling machine suppliers as the company tries to boost its
take from betting shops. Ladbrokes said today it generated 8.3
million pounds in gross win from the World Cup.  “Although bolstered by successful latter stages of the
World Cup and an easy comparative period, the growth rates
achieved in the third quarter give the board confidence that the
group is on track to meet its full-year expectations,” Glynn
said in the statement.  Ladbrokes gained 3.5 pence, or 2.5 percent, to 141.5 pence
at 8:23 a.m. in London, after earlier increasing as much as 4.9
percent. The shares have risen 2.9 percent so far this year,
giving the bookmaker a market value of 1.28 billion pounds.  Buying Tote, the state-owned bookmaker, is not “highest on
our agenda,” Glynn said on a conference call with reporters.
“We have a very good retail estate at the moment.”  The U.K. Department for Culture, Media and Sport said last
month it will solicit bids for Tote.  Internet net revenue rose 17 percent during the period, led
by sports betting.  Ladbrokes benefited from a rebound in margin as the number
of draws was higher than usual, compared with an unexpectedly
low total in the year-earlier period, Finance Director Brian
Wallace said on the call. Bookmakers benefit from draws because
few bettors wager on ties.  Gross win margin in shops rose to 16.9 percent compared
with 14 percent a year ago, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  