-- Thai Leader Visits Myanmar as Asia Engages Junta Before Vote
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-10-11T00:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/thai-premier-abhisit-visits-myanmar-as-asia-engages-junta-before-elections.html
Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  will visit Myanmar today ahead of the military-ruled
country’s first election in 20 years as its neighbors engage
with the generals shunned by the U.S. and Europe.  Abhisit’s one-day visit comes weeks after junta leader
 Than Shwe ’s first trips to India and China in about eight years.
The three neighbors account for a third of the world’s
population and about two-thirds of Myanmar’s commerce, giving
the military leadership an economic lifeline as the U.S. and
Europe impose sanctions.  “We don’t think sanctions have worked and we don’t think
sanctions will work,” Abhisit said in an Oct. 6 interview at
Bloomberg’s New York headquarters. “We think that engagement,
frustrating at times as it can be, offers the most realistic
approach.”  Thailand, China and India are building roads, ports and
pipelines in Southeast Asia’s  poorest country  to access its
natural resources and move cargo quickly to and from the Middle
East and Europe. The country’s strategic location has undermined
U.S. sanctions, which President  Barack Obama  may soon tighten to
target banks that hold offshore accounts for junta leaders.  “There’s a difference in the way we see things,”
Abhisit said, explaining the competing approaches to Myanmar by
Asia nations and the West. “We don’t have the luxury of
distance.”  Political Prisoners  Last month, United Nations Secretary-General  Ban Ki-Moon 
called on Myanmar to release some 2,000 political prisoners
prior to the Nov. 7 election, which the main opposition party
led by detained Nobel laureate  Aung San Suu Kyi  is boycotting.
Obama also  called  for her release in a Sept. 24 meeting with
leaders of the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations.  “The European Union has already made it clear that
sanctions -- targeted at the regime and its sources of revenue -
- will not be lifted until genuine progress is made,” U.K.
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  wrote in the International
Herald Tribune on Oct. 4. “We must now work with our Asian
partners, using our collective clout, to push for that
progress.”  Myanmar’s  exports  to the U.S. and EU amounted to less
than 4 percent of total overseas sales last year, according to
European  data . Sanctions imposed by the U.S. and Europe cover
trade, investment and financial transactions involving the
regime.  “The unjust economic coercive measures and trade
embargoes” should be removed, Myanmar Foreign Minister  Nyan Win 
told the United Nations General Assembly on Sept. 28.  Chinese Investment  Thailand, the junta’s biggest trading partner, pipes in
natural gas from Myanmar’s Gulf of Martaban to meet about 30
percent of its natural gas needs.  Italian-Thai Development Pcl ,
Thailand’s largest construction company, is close to signing an
almost $12 billion deal with Myanmar to build a deep-sea port on
the Indian Ocean that will reduce shipping times for exporters.  Chinese investments in pipeline and hydropower projects
in Myanmar amounted to $8.2 billion in May, according to
government statistics, an amount greater than any Southeast
Asian country apart from Singapore received last year.  China
National Petroleum Corp.  started construction four months ago on
oil and gas pipelines that traverse the country.  India approved plans in February for state-owned  Oil &
Natural Gas Corp.  and GAIL India Ltd. to invest a combined $1.3
billion in a natural gas project in Myanmar. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  pledged to  develop  the country’s infrastructure,
industry and information technology when Than Shwe visited New
Delhi in July.  ‘Tremendous Potential’  Myanmar has “tremendous potential” because of its
natural resources, fertile land and location, said  Jean-Pierre Verbiest , Thailand country director at the Asian Development
Bank. “If things normalized, it’s a country which could become
one of the richest in the area.”  The junta plans to release Suu Kyi “days” after the
November election, Agence France-Presse reported on Sept. 30,
citing unidentified officials. Her party won 92 percent of seats
in a 1990 election that was subsequently ignored by the military.
Suu Kyi has been detained for 15 of the past 21 years, with her
latest house arrest starting in 2003.  “There’s unlikely to be any major changes as far as the
way elections are going to be held,” Abhisit said. “We should
think more about helping Myanmar people, capacity building,
because in the end any democracy needs that to have strong
foundations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net . 