-- Aid Worker Held Hostage In Afghanistan May Have Died From Rescuer Grenade
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-11T13:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/aid-worker-held-hostage-in-afghanistan-may-have-died-from-rescuer-grenade.html
Linda Norgrove, a British hostage
killed in Afghanistan in a rescue attempt last week, may have
been the victim of a grenade detonated during a bid by U.S.
troops to free her, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said.  General  David Petraeus , the top U.S. commander in
Afghanistan, ordered an investigation into her death, said a
statement by NATO’s International Security Assistance Force.  “Linda could have died as a result of a grenade detonated
by the task force during the assault. However, this is not
definite,” Cameron told a press conference in London today.
“This was a very difficult operation. Ultimately, the
responsibility for Linda’s death lies with those who took her
hostage.”  Norgrove, 36, an aid worker for  Washington-based DAI , was
killed during a rescue attempt by coalition forces Oct. 8. She
was kidnapped last month with three local staff when their
vehicle was ambushed in Kunar province.  She was killed during a U.S. military operation near the
village of Dineshgal in Kunar’s Norgal district. Initial reports
said she had been killed by her captors, possibly by a suicide
vest.  “Initial reports indicated the explosion was caused by a
detonation triggered by one of the captors who was in close
proximity to Linda Norgrove,” ISAF said in the statement.
“Subsequent review of surveillance footage and discussions with
members of the rescue team do not conclusively determine the
cause of her death.”  Cameron praised the bravery of those involved in the rescue
attempt. He said the rescue had been authorized by Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  with his “full support.”  “It’s a judgment, it’s a balance,” he said. “I will go
over in my own mind 100 times whether it was the right decision,
but I believe it was.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  