-- AIG in Talks to Settle Duke Stripper-Lacrosse Lawsuit
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-10-11T18:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/aig-in-talks-to-settle-suit-on-duke-s-costs-from-stripper-lacrosse-cases.html
American International Group Inc.  is
in talks with  Duke University  to settle a lawsuit over expenses
tied to the school’s court dispute with lacrosse team members
falsely accused of sexually assaulting a stripper.  Duke and a unit of New York-based AIG set a mediation date
in the almost two-year-old case, according to a motion filed
last week. The school was seeking reimbursement of costs from
confidential settlements with three members of the team who were
exonerated after they were accused of rape by a stripper invited
to a 2006 party.  “The parties are hopeful that they will be able to resolve
this dispute at the November 4 mediation and have agreed that it
is preferable to avoid incurring significant expenses,”
according to the motion from AIG and Duke in federal court in
Durham, North Carolina.  A settlement may reduce distractions as AIG seeks to repay
taxpayer loans within its $182.3 billion government bailout.
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  has settled disputes
with investors and former CEO  Maurice “Hank” Greenberg .  Duke and AIG have held settlement talks and agreed to
reconvene, according to the Oct. 8 filing.  Mark Herr , a
spokesman for AIG, and  Michael Schoenfeld  of Durham-based Duke
declined to comment.  Duke had demanded reimbursement for costs tied to lawsuits
by players and another by the team’s former coach over the
school’s role in investigating the accusation, according to the
November 2008  complaint . The athletes said Duke remained silent
during the probe even though the university had evidence they
were innocent.  $5 Million Offer  Duke had purchased two so-called individual-and-
organization policies protecting the school and some of its
administrators from legal costs, according to the complaint.  AIG had offered $5 million to Duke, Joseph O’Neil, a lawyer
at Peabody & Arnold LLP in Boston involved in the defense, said
in December 2008. O’Neil declined to comment when reached by
telephone today.  AIG and Duke made the Oct. 8 comments as part of a pre-
trial request for a 60-day extension to complete discovery, or
the swapping of evidence.  The case is Duke University and Duke University Health
System Inc. v. National Union Fire Insurance Co. of Pittsburgh
Pa., 08-cv-0854, U.S. District Court, Middle District of North
Carolina (Durham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  