-- Air Medical Plans Debt as Acquisition Funding Sales Rise: New Issue Alert
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2010-10-11T08:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/air-medical-plans-debt-as-acquisition-funding-sales-rise-new-issue-alert.html
Air Medical Group Holdings Inc., the
provider of emergency air transportation services, is marketing
debt as sales of speculative-grade bonds to fund acquisitions
triple from year-ago levels as a percentage of overall volume.  Air Medical Group may sell $545 million of eight-year notes
to pay for its purchase by Bain Capital LLC, according to a
person familiar with the offering.  High-yield acquisition-related financing has grown to 15.4
percent this year relative to all new issuance from 5 percent
last year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by
 Peter Acciavatti . While climbing, the percentage remains below
the 2005 to 2007 annual average of 45 percent, Acciavatti said
in a note to clients.  Issuers seeking to take advantage of the lowest junk yields
in more than three years and lacking confidence in the U.S.
growth outlook “don’t know what to do with the low cost of
capital other than to return it to shareholders or go out and
buy growth with a merger or acquisition,”  Christopher Garman ,
president of Orinda, California-based Garman Research LLC, said
in a telephone interview.  “The handoff after refinancing waves like we’ve seen is
very consistently a contest between acquisitions and capital
expenditure,” Garman said. “That’s the next use of proceeds,
and as long as the monetary spigots remain open, acquisition and
leverage are going to remain the responses in corporate
America.”  Fed Policy  The Federal Reserve’s interest-rate policy may not be
having the desired effect of increasing employment, according to
Garman. The Labor Department said it may subtract 366,000 jobs
for the 12 months through March when its figures are updated
next year, and its monthly report showed a larger-than-forecast
reduction of 95,000 workers in September.  The Fed has kept its target for overnight interest on loans
among banks in a 0 percent to 0.25 percent range since December
2008 to aid the economy.  “Traditionally the goal is to lower the threshold for
investment,” Garman said. “If companies can raise capital at
record low yields, the hurdle for making money on investments
should be lower. However, companies are not pursuing those
opportunities in the real world, they’re doing it in the capital
markets.”  Cost-Cutting  Takeovers typically involve cost-cutting, Garman said. “If
anything, this sort of financial engineering could backfire and
leave the U.S. with a more highly leveraged corporate sector and
fewer employment opportunities,” he said.  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
company bonds instead of Treasuries was unchanged on Oct. 8 at
181 basis points leaving it 3 basis points narrower this week,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate
Master Index. Absolute yields on the debt fell 1 basis point to
3.55 percent, the lowest since the daily index data became
available in October 1986, and a 14 basis-point weekly decline.  High-yield corporate bond spreads narrowed 1 basis point on
Oct. 8 to 612 basis points and have declined 10 basis points
since Oct. 1, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. High Yield Master II Index. Yields fell 2 basis points to
7.85 percent, a 20 basis-point decline on the week and the least
since June 2007.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Bond Sales  Companies sold $805 million of debt on Oct. 8 and $21.6
billion for all of last week, Bloomberg data show.  BNP Paribas SA, France’s largest bank, sold $600 million of
dollar-denominated notes due in March 2015 in a reopening,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank previously
sold $750 million of the bonds in March and $400 million of the
debt in April, Bloomberg data show.  Air Medical Group Holdings may issue debt as soon as Oct.
15, said the person familiar with the sale, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  The following is a description of at least $6.63 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  LLOYDS TSB BANK PLC plans to sell U.K. mortgage-backed
securities in dollars, pounds, yen and euros, according to two
people with knowledge of the sale.  TRANSNET LTD., South Africa’s state-owned ports, rail and
pipeline operator, said it may sell $1 billion worth of bonds in
international markets to pay for expansion. Transnet has 35.2
billion rand ($5 billion) of debt outstanding.  OAO SBERBANK, Russia’s biggest lender, plans to sell U.S.
dollar-denominated debt due in March 2017, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. The notes may yield 5.25 percent
to 5.35 percent, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  LANDESKREDITBANK BADEN-WUERTTEMBERG-FOERDERBANK plans to
sell three-year bonds in dollars, according to a banker involved
in the transaction. Barclays Capital, Morgan Stanley and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing the sale, the banker said.  VOTORANTIM CIMENTOS SA plans to sell perpetual bonds in
dollars, which are callable after five years, years, according
to a banker involved in the transaction. Bank of America Corp.,
HSBC Holdings Plc, Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Morgan Stanley
are managing the issue, which will be guaranteed by Votorantim
Participacoes SA and Votorantim Industrial SA, the banker said.
Moody’s rates the bonds Baa3.  ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK plans to sell sukuk in dollars,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. CIMB
Holdings Bhd., Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc are managing the issue, the people said.  RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD. , India’s biggest company by market
value, approached banks to help it raise at least $1 billion
from a bond sale, according to three people with direct
knowledge of the matter. The petrochemicals and textile company,
whose chairman is billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , may use the money
for acquisitions, one of the people said, asking not to be
identified as the matter is private.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The debt is likely to be for five years and is meant to
“fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance sheet,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone interview from
Doha. The bank will sell the bonds in dollars and the local
riyal currency, the CEO said in a July 25 interview.  Not Rated  SM INVESTMENTS CORP., the holding company of Philippine
billionaire Henry Sy, plans to sell $400 million of 5.5 percent
2017 bonds in a combined swap and sale. The company will issue
$213.7 million 2017 bonds in exchange for $196.6 million 2013
and 2014 debt, SM said in an e-mailed statement. It will also
sell $186.3 million of 2017 bonds for cash. The settlement date
is Oct. 13, the company said.  STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  High Yield  FRIENDFINDER NETWORKS INC., the publisher of Penthouse
magazine, plans to sell $296 million of secured first-lien notes
due 2013, according to a note from Standard & Poor’s. S&P rated
the debt from the private Boca Raton, Florida-based company B.  ABENGOA SA, the Seville, Spain-based engineering and
biofuel production company, plans to sell $600 million of seven-
year senior bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc., Credit
Suisse Group AG and Deutsche Bank AG are managing the issue,
according to the person, who declined to be identified because
terms weren’t set.  NOMOS BANK appointed UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc to sell at least $300 million of dollar bonds with a
maturity of three to five years, Alexei Tretyakov, director of
the financial markets at the Moscow-based lender, said in a
telephone interview.  AVANGARDCO INVESTMENTS PUBLIC LTD., Ukraine’s biggest egg
producer, hired Troika Dialog and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
organize its debut sale of dollar bonds under Regulation S,
which bars sales in the United States, Troika said.  AIR MEDICAL GROUP HOLDINGS INC., the provider of emergency
transportation services in the Southern and Midwestern parts of
the U.S., plans to sell $545 million of eight-year notes to pay
for its acquisition by Bain Capital LLC, according to a person
familiar with the offering, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  TUTOR PERINI CORP. plans to sell as much as $300 million of
senior unsecured notes, the construction company said in an Oct.
6 statement distributed by Business Wire. Proceeds may be used
for acquisitions and stock repurchases, according to the
statement.  EVRAZ INC. NA CANADA plans to sell $650 million of seven-
year bonds that are callable after four years, according to two
people with knowledge of the sale. Barclays Capital and Credit
Suisse Group AG are managing the issue, which will help
refinance existing debt of the parent, Evraz Group SA. Moody’s
assigned the notes a grade of B1 and S&P ranked them B, one step
lower.  OSO SEVERSTAL , Russia’s largest steelmaker, plans to meet
investors in Europe, Asia and the U.S. to discuss a sale of
dollar bonds, according to a banker with knowledge of the
roadshow. The company offered to buy back $450 million of bonds
on Sept. 30, more than a third of its 9.75 percent notes due in
2013, aiming to refinance the amount with less expensive debt.  CLEARWATER PAPER CORP. plans to sell $350 million of senior
unsecured notes, the Spokane, Washington-based company said in a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The maker of
consumer tissue, bleached paperboard and wood products plans to
use proceeds, along with $210 million of cash on hand to finance
its purchase of Cellu Tissue Holdings Inc., the filing said.  YASAR HOLDING AS, a Turkish company that makes dairy and
meat products, paint and paper, plans to sell five-year notes
denominated in U.S. dollars, said a person familiar with the
matter. Barclays Plc is managing the sale, which will be used to
fund a senior loan to Yasar from Barclays Bank Plc, said the
person, who asked not to be identified because the details are
private.  Offerings in Pipeline  GEORGIAN RAILWAY LLC, the former Soviet republic’s state-
owned rail company, is preparing a bond road show in the U.S.,
Giorgi Gagnidze, the company’s financial director, said in
comments broadcast on Rustavi-2 television.  CENTRAL CHINA REAL ESTATE LTD., part-owned by Singapore’s
CapitaLand Ltd., plans to sell bonds denominated in U.S. dollars
to fund property projects, according to a statement to the Hong
Kong stock exchange. Deutsche Bank AG, Nomura Holdings Inc. and
ING Groep NV will manage the sale and help arrange meetings with
investors, according to the statement.  ICICI BANK LTD., India’s second-largest lender, hired
Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG to sell as
much as $1 billion of bonds with maturities between five and 10
years, according to three people familiar with the offering.
India’s second-biggest lender is rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- by S&P.  IRVING PLACE CAPITAL may issue $250 million of senior
secured notes to help pay for its leveraged buyout of Thermadyne
Holdings Corp. and refinance the company’s debt, Thermadyne
Chief Financial Officer Steven Schumm said in an Oct. 5
interview. The company will also arrange a $60 million asset-
based revolving credit line. Jefferies Group Inc. and Royal Bank
of Canada will manage the sale of six-year bonds, Schumm said.  KOREA NATIONAL OIL CORP. hired Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas
SA, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Korea
Development Bank for a sale of dollar bonds, a person familiar
with the deal said on Oct. 6. The company known as KNOC said in
September it plans to raise between $500 million and $1 billion
to fund acquisitions. KNOC is rated A1 by Moody’s Investors
Service and A by Standard & Poor’s.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
has not decided on the size of the bond, he said.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC.  is planning its first
debt offering since its bailout two years ago as the insurer
moves toward independence from the U.S. government, Chairman
Steve Miller said Sept. 29.  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS , a Turkish bank, applied to Turkey’s
capital markets regulator to sell dollar-denominated bonds
abroad, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock Exchange.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said. The money would go to fund expansion  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC. , the insurer that’s
majority owned by the U.S., may sell bonds to help repay its
government bailout, it said in an Aug. 9 registration statement
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 