-- Airgas to Appeal Delaware Ruling on Meeting Date in Air Products Dispute
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-10-11T21:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/airgas-to-appeal-delaware-ruling-on-meeting-date-in-air-products-dispute.html
Airgas Inc. , fighting a $5.5 billion
takeover bid by  Air Products & Chemicals Inc ., plans to appeal a
court ruling that would allow the industrial-gas supplier’s next
annual meeting to be held in January.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge  William B. Chandler III  ruled
Oct. 8 that a bylaw approved by Airgas shareholders last month
doesn’t improperly shorten the terms of directors on the
company’s staggered board. Air Products may use the ruling to
take control of Airgas at the January meeting. Airgas  rose  2.8
percent in New York trading.  “Airgas continues to believe that the proposed amendment
to its bylaws,” which moves up the meeting date from as early
as April, “is invalid under both Delaware law and Airgas’s
Certificate of Incorporation,” the Radnor, Pennsylvania-based
company said today in a statement.  Investors also added three nominees backed by Allentown,
Pennsylvania-based Air Products to the Airgas board in the Sept.
15 vote. Under Airgas’s staggered-board system, adopted to make
takeovers more difficult, only some directors are up for
election at one time. The directors are elected to three-year
terms.  Air Products, which is offering $65.50 a share, said in a
statement it was “disappointed” that Airgas “continues to
oppose the will of its shareholders.”  Airgas  gained  $1.93 to $69.78 as of 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading after earlier touching a record
$70.  Friendly Deal  Airgas Chief Executive Officer  Peter McCausland  testified
last week in the trial that he would have been willing to begin
negotiations at $70-a-share so long as Air Products made the bid
public and indicated a willingness to pay more if Airgas could
show the company was worth a higher price.  Airgas should negotiate a friendly deal, said  Lionel Melka ,
an arbitrage investor in Paris at Bernheim, Dreyfus & Co. who
manages assets including Airgas shares.  “The stock price is now close to the $70 level at which
they said they would be happy with,” Melka said.  The cases are Air Products & Chemicals Inc. v. Airgas Inc.,
5249, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington); and Airgas Inc. v.
Air Products & Chemicals Inc., 5817, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  