-- Half of Wall Street Professionals Expect Bigger Bonus in 2010, Survey Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2010-10-11T17:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/half-of-wall-street-professionals-expect-bigger-bonus-in-2010-survey-says.html
Half of Wall Street finance
professionals surveyed expect their bonuses to increase for
2010, eFinancialCareers.com found.  About 71 percent of the 2,145 people who responded to the
e-mailed poll in the U.S. said they are anticipating at least an
equal bonus from last year, with 50 percent expecting a bigger
payout, the job-search website said in a statement. About 11
percent said their bonus will jump by at least half, according
to the survey.  The percentage expecting a bigger bonus increased from 36
percent in last year’s poll, when firms faced pressure from
regulators and lawmakers to rein in pay after many accepted
billions in government rescue funds. Almost 60 percent of
respondents cited market conditions as the biggest concern for
their compensation.  “The signs of bonus euphoria may be hard to find, but Wall
Street employers will have to deal with professionals who
believe they are in contention for fatter paychecks and the
inevitable retention issues should their expectations be
dashed,”  Constance Melrose , managing director of
eFinancialCareers North America, said in the statement.  About 91 percent of those polled in the U.S. expect to
receive some kind of bonus this year, according to
eFinancialCareers, a unit of  Dice Holdings Inc . The survey was
conducted from Sept. 15 to Sept. 28 and received responses from
front-office and support staff at investment and commercial
banks, hedge funds and insurance companies.  Global Survey  The results were part of a global survey that included
financial workers in the U.K., Germany, Australia, Hong Kong and
Singapore. About 71 percent of respondents in Hong Kong expected
a larger bonus, along with 69 percent in Singapore, 57 percent
in the U.K. and 47 percent in Germany.  U.S. respondents said they expected an average of 78
percent of their bonus to be in “immediately available cash,”
Melrose said in an interview. About 70 percent didn’t expect any
portion of their bonus to be deferred, she said.  “There has been a lot of recruitment activity this year,
and that recruitment activity is part of what is driving
expectations,” Melrose said. “You still have to pay for
performance, and you have to pay to keep your competitive
edge.”  In the first six months of the year,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  set aside $9.3 billion for total compensation, down from
last year’s record $11.4 billion.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s
investment bank allocated $5.3 billion versus $6 billion a year
earlier, and  Morgan Stanley ’s investment bank set aside $3.5
billion, up from $3.1 billion. All figures exclude U.K. bonus
tax costs.  Of the U.S. respondents who anticipate a bigger bonus, 33
percent attributed it to their firm’s performance and 34 percent
said it’s related to personal accomplishments. About 37 percent
said pay is the most important factor in their decision to work
in the industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  