-- Aluminum Most Likely for First Exchange Product, Survey Shows
-- B y   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-10-11T10:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/aluminum-most-likely-choice-as-first-exchange-traded-industrial-metal-fund.html
Aluminum is most likely to be the
first industrial metal used to back an exchange-traded product
in a market where $100 billion has already been invested in
precious-metal funds, a survey of analysts showed.  Aluminum was the top candidate for 14 of 16 analysts and
traders surveyed by Bloomberg. More of it is produced than all
other non-ferrous metals combined.  Tin  was the least likely
because it has the smallest stockpiles. ETF Securities Ltd.,
manager of $22 billion in assets, said today it’s preparing to
start exchange-traded commodities backed by six industrial
metals including aluminum and copper.  Investors accumulated 2,084 metric tons of bullion since
the first gold-backed ETPs started in Australia and London in
2003, based on data from 10 providers tracked by Bloomberg.
That’s more than twice the reserves of Switzerland and reflects
a wider investor appetite for commodities, with total assets
under management rising fivefold to $300 billion since the end
of 2004, according to Barclays Capital. Gold holdings doubled
since stock markets crashed in 2008.  “People post-crisis have developed a taste for these
things,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in
London. “The commodity markets will never be the same.”  Gold is heading for a 10th consecutive annual advance, the
longest winning streak since at least 1920, and has risen almost
fivefold over the decade. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  is 12
percent below where it was at the end of 2000. Treasuries
returned 75 percent since the end of that year, according to an
index from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Most-Trade Metal  Ease of trading and stockpiles were the most common reasons
for picking aluminum in the survey. The London Metal Exchange
handled 4.07 million aluminum contracts in September, 54 percent
more than in copper, the next most-traded metal, data from the
133-year-old bourse show. Stockpiles in LME-monitored warehouses
of 4.3 million tons are more than three times larger than the
combined inventory in copper, nickel, lead, zinc and tin.  Metals traders from Singapore to Santiago gather today for
LME Week, with meetings across the U.K. capital. Attendance “is
likely to be the highest in a long time,”  Gayle Berry  at
Barclays Capital said in a report Oct. 7.  Speculation about a new product backed by industrial metals
intensified after ETF Securities confirmed a month ago it had an
LMEsword account. That’s the bourse’s electronic transfer system
for warrants, documents issued by LME-approved warehouses giving
ownership of metals.  Industrial Metals  ETPs would mean new demand,  Daniel Brebner , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG, said in a report Sept. 28. Based on the
“conservative” assumption that an industrial-metal ETP would
capture 2 percent of global demand, an aluminum product would
need about 13 percent of exchange- monitored inventory, he said.
In the case of copper, that would rise to 65 percent, he
estimated.  An ETP holding 1.4 million metric tons of aluminum may
boost prices by $250 a ton, according to  David Thurtell , an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in London. Aluminum for delivery in
three months, the benchmark contract, rose $3 to $2,423 a ton at
11:15 a.m. on the LME. The metal rose 8.7 percent since the
start of January, extending last year’s 45 percent surge.  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the world’s biggest supplier of
nickel, is ready to sell metal to providers of ETPs, Deputy
Chief Executive Officer  Victor Sprogis  said Oct. 4.  Oleg Deripaska , chief executive of United Co. Rusal, the world’s
largest aluminum maker, said in June that his company and other
producers were in talks to supply the metal to a fund.  Storage Costs  One challenge faced by providers of industrial-metal-backed
ETPs has been overhead costs.  “You’re going to get eaten alive on the storage costs,”
said  John Hyland , chief investment officer of U.S. Commodities
Funds LLC, which manages about $7.4 billion of assets. Storing
gold costs about 0.1 to 0.15 percentage point annually, while
for aluminum the figure might be 10 percent, he said.  Those costs could be curbed by either owning a storage
facility or negotiating rates with a warehousing company,
Barclays’s Berry said in a report.  “The key to success for these products will be the extent
to which providers can minimize storage costs,” said  Nic Brown ,
an analyst at Natixis Commodity Markets Ltd. in London.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 