-- Mao Evoked as Chinese Artist Fills Tate With 100 Million Seeds
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2010-10-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/mao-evoked-as-chinese-artist-carpets-tate-with-100-million-seeds-review.html
Toddlers are going to like the new
installation by the Chinese artist  Ai Weiwei  at Tate Modern.  Even at the press view, several children were already
contentedly playing on it. Fans of conceptual art will be
enthusiastic too, as will those who like chilling out beside the
sea. Lovers of richly eye-filling spectacle will be less happy.  Ai is one of contemporary China’s most prominent artists.
He was a collaborator with the architects  Herzog and de Meuron 
on the Bird’s Nest Stadium for the 2008 Beijing Olympics.  This new work, “Sunflower Seeds,” is loaded with thoughts
and associations. From a distance, it looks like a beach of gray
shingle, or a Zen garden. If you wanted to be harsh you might
compare it to a vast expense of grimy porridge spread across the
vast floor of the  Turbine Hall .  As its title suggests, it isn’t intended as any of these
things. The work consists of 100 million little monochrome
porcelain replicas of sunflower seed husks. This humble item
carries strong associations for Ai. The sunflower seed is a
popular Chinese snack. During the Cultural Revolution of 1966-
76, Chairman  Mao Zedong  was represented as the Sun with the
Chinese people as sunflowers turning their faces toward him.  The Cultural Revolution holds terrible memories for Ai, 53.
His father, Ai Qing (1910-1996), a celebrated poet, was exiled
to a remote village and condemned to hard labor.  Later the artist studied at Beijing Film Academy, then
spent 12 years living in the U.S. where he absorbed  Duchamp ,
Surrealism and conceptual art. After he returned to China in
1993, his work became a mixture of west and east. He has the
attention-grabbing chutzpah of a  Damien Hirst  or  Jeff Koons , and
a fascination with the traditions of Chinese culture and art.  Painted Porcelain  In this case, he has used one of most significant materials
of the old China: porcelain. Each of the ceramic sunflower
shells was hand-painted and crafted by workers at a factory in
the city of Jingdezhen.  It took two years to manufacture this quantity of tiny
porcelain seed-pods. Altogether they weigh 150 metric tonnes.
They crunch under your feet like gravel, and visitor’s footsteps
form them into an undulating miniature landscape, like a desert
seen from the air.  If you pick up a few, you discover that each is minutely
different. The pattern of black and white stripes is always
slightly varied, just as each individual human being is unique,
though in a crowd, from a distance they can seem much the same.  One hundred million units is a huge number. The population
of China is 1.3 billion. Individual freedom is important to Ai,
who is increasingly politically outspoken.  All of these connections are interesting. In fact, the more
you think about it, the better “Sunflowers” gets.  On the other hand, there’s no getting away from the fact
that visually, it is a bit of a downer. For that reason, it
doesn’t rank with the most successful of the Unilever Series --
 Olafur Eliasson ’s setting sun, for example, or  Doris Salcedo’s 
fissure in the floor. To make the most of that vast space,
visual drama and spectacle is definitely what you need.  “Sunflower Seeds” by Ai Weiwei opens today at Tate
Modern, Bankside, London SE1 9TG. The show runs through May 2
2011. It is part of the Unilever Series, an annual commission
sponsored by Unilever Plc. Information:
 http://www.tate.org.uk/modern/exhibitions/unileverseries2010   ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. His most recent book is “Man
With a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by  Lucian Freud .”
The  opinions  expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 