-- Aramco-Total Venture Plans to Sell $1 Billion Bond, Credit Agricole Says
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-10-11T11:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/aramco-total-jv-to-sell-1-billion-bond-credit-agricole-says.html
Saudi Aramco and Total SA plan to
sell Islamic bonds valued at $1 billion this year to fund
construction of their joint oil refinery in Jubail, said  Simon Eedle , global head of Islamic banking at Credit Agricole SA.  Paris-based Credit Agricole is the lead arranger of the
Islamic bond and is helping to structure the facility also known
as sukuk, Eedle said in Abu Dhabi today.  Aramco, the world’s largest state-owned oil company, and
Total agreed in June to $8.5 billion in financing for the
project at Jubail on the Persian Gulf coast. The project to
build a 400,000 barrel-a-day refinery will cost more than $12
billion, Salem Shaheen, former chief executive officer for the
project, said in March. The plant is set to start operation in
mid-2013, he said.  Bond sales from the Gulf region have picked up since state-
controlled Dubai World in September reached an agreement with 99
percent of its creditors to alter the terms on $24.9 billion of
debt. Dubai’s government sold $1.25 billion of bonds last month,
while Emaar Properties PJSC, the United Arab Emirates’ biggest
property developer, raised $500 million from a convertible bond
sale and Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ sold $750 million of debt.  Sukuk valued at $10 billion will be sold in the next six
months in the Persian Gulf, led by companies in Saudi Arabia,
Qatar and Abu Dhabi, Eedle said. Credit Agricole expects to
manage as many as three regional Islamic bond transactions,
including the Jubail sukuk, he said.  -Editors: Shaji Mathew, Claudia Maedler.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net . 