-- Asian Currencies Gain on Speculation Fed Easing Policy Will Spur Inflows
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-10-11T04:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/asian-currencies-gain-on-speculation-fed-easing-policy-will-spur-inflows.html
Asian currencies strengthened, led
by the Taiwan and Singapore dollars, on speculation the Federal
Reserve will step up asset purchases, accelerating the flow of
funds into higher-yielding assets.  Taiwan’s currency climbed 1.3 percent to NT$30.705 against
the greenback as of 11:46 a.m. local time and it reached
NT$30.645, the highest level since August 2008, according to
Taipei Forex Inc. The won added 0.5 percent to 1,115.15 and
touched a five-month high of 1,110.75, while the Singapore
dollar jumped 0.5 percent to S$1.3056, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are still in the same trend, which is to sell the
dollar against Asian currencies, especially with expectations of
Fed quantitative easing and Asia’s growth outperformance,” said
 Thomas Harr , head of foreign-exchange strategy at Standard
Chartered Plc in Singapore. “There was no currency agreement at
the weekend Group of Seven and International Monetary Fund
meetings, especially in resisting the weaker dollar.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10-most traded currencies excluding the yen, was little
changed after climbing to 115.48 on Oct. 8, the highest level
since April 2008. Asia’s developing economies will expand 9.4
percent in 2010, outpacing growth of 2.7 percent in advanced
countries, the IMF forecast on Oct. 6.  China’s Reserves  Overseas investors have pumped a net $38 billion into
Indian, South Korean and Taiwanese equities this year, according
to stock exchange data. Nine of the 10 most actively-traded
currencies in Asia outside Japan have strengthened versus the
dollar during the period, led by the Thai baht and the Malaysian
ringgit.  China may buy some emerging-market currencies as the
country seeks to diversify its $2.5 trillion of foreign reserves,
central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said yesterday.  Some developing countries have tried to limit gains in
their currencies. Thailand plans to impose a withholding tax of
15 percent on interest income from domestic bonds purchased by
overseas investors, the Thai-language paper Post Today reported
today, citing Finance Minister Korn Chatikavanij. The Thai baht
strengthened 0.1 percent to 30.04, after earlier advancing as
much as 0.6 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  Regulators in Korea will start an audit of lenders handling
foreign-currency derivatives on Oct. 19 to curb volatility
caused by capital flows, while Japan last month intervened for
the first time in six years to restrain the yen.  ‘Print Money’  Taiwan’s dollar jumped the most in 17 months and Malaysia’s
ringgit had its biggest gain in more than two weeks after larger
job cuts in the U.S. than economists had predicted spurred
speculation the Fed will expand the supply of its currency.  The ringgit strengthened 0.4 percent to 3.1003. The Taiwan
dollar rose as foreigners bought a net $235 million of local
shares last week, boosting net purchases for this year to $3.6
billion, according to exchange data.  “The U.S. may print more money to save its economy and
that’s weighing on the greenback and supporting Asian
currencies,” said  Eric Hsing , a debt trader at First Securities
Inc. in Taipei. “Strong economic growth in Taiwan and Asia is
also attracting funds.”  Elsewhere, the Indonesian rupiah added 0.1 percent to 8,923
per dollar and the Philippine peso was little changed at 43.43,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 