-- Stocks, Commodities Rally on Stimulus Bets; Corn, Soybeans Rise
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-11T19:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/asian-stocks-grains-rise-dollar-drops-on-speculation-fed-will-buy-assets.html
Most U.S. stocks rose and
commodities rallied after the Group of Seven industrialized
nations did nothing to damp optimism central banks will step in
to support economies.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.1 percent at 3:19
p.m. in New York as four stocks advanced for every three that
fell on U.S. exchanges. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed up 0.4
percent. The  S&P GSCI  index of 24 raw materials surged to a two-
year high as corn and soybeans rallied on concern production
will trail demand. The  yield  on Greek 10-year bonds fell to
within 7 percentage points above benchmark German bunds for the
first time since June 22.  Investors continued to speculate the Federal Reserve will
pump more cash into the U.S. economy after global financial
leaders this weekend failed to settle disputes over nations’
efforts to weaken currencies to boost exports. The Fed may buy
as much as $65 billion in Treasuries a month,  Mansoor Mohi- uddin , head of global currency strategy at UBS AG, wrote in a
report today.  “The market has traded very well recently as the Fed has
shown increased sensitivity to the state of the economy, hinting
it may do some quantitative easing,” said  Michael Strauss , who
helps oversee about $26 billion at Commonfund in Wilton,
Connecticut. “The weakness in the dollar may have helped U.S.
companies generate better international earnings in the third
quarter. We think we will recover the market highs from earlier
this year.”  Rally Extended  The  S&P 500  added to last week’s 1.7 percent rally and
climbed above its highest close since May 12. Gymboree Corp.
rallied 23 percent after the children’s clothing retailer agreed
to be bought by Bain Capital LLC for about $1.8 billion. Boeing
Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and International Business Machines
Corp. led gains in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  Intel Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Google Inc. are among
companies in the benchmark index due to  report third-quarter
results  this week. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey project third-
quarter profits at S&P 500 companies grew 23 percent in the
third quarter and will expand 31 percent in the final three
months of the year.  The U.S. Treasury market was closed for the Columbus Day
holiday and Canadian exchanges were closed for Thanksgiving Day.  The dollar strengthened against 11 of 16 major counterparts
and the Dollar Index, which gauges the currency against six
major peers, rebounded from the lowest level since January.  The yen depreciated 0.2 percent to 82.12 per dollar after
strengthening earlier to 81.39, the strongest in 15 years. The
dollar climbed 0.5 percent to $1.3874 per euro, after
depreciating earlier to $1.4012, near the lowest since January.  Currency Wars  Exchange rates dominated the International Monetary Fund’s
annual meeting as Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ,
People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  and their
counterparts split over whose policies are the biggest threat to
the world economy on concern countries are relying on cheap
currencies to aid growth. China was accused of undervaluing the
yuan, while low U.S. interest rates were blamed by emerging
markets for flooding them with capital. Brazil took aim at both
the U.S. and China.  Two stocks rose for each that fell in the  Stoxx Europe 600 
Index, which climbed 0.4 percent. Ladbrokes Plc advanced 2.3
percent as the U.K. bookmaker founded in 1886 said third-quarter
operating profit more than doubled. Fertilizer makers Yara
International ASA and Syngenta AG climbed more than 1.5 percent
as corn and soybean futures rallied.  Chesapeake Energy  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced for the first time
in three days, climbing 0.6 percent. Turkey’s  ISE National 100
Index  rose 2.7 percent to a record after the government said it
will cut its deficit more than earlier planned. Russia’s Micex
Index increased 1.2 percent. The Shanghai Composite index jumped
2.5 percent. The gains came before Reuters reported China’s
central bank unexpectedly raised reserve requirements for six
large commercial lenders.  The yield on the 10-year Greek bond tumbled 50 basis points
to 9.27 percent after IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss- Kahn  said the institution is prepared to give the country more
time to repay its loan should European nations, which provided
the bulk of a joint 110 billion-euro ($153 billion) package,
decide to do so first.  The cost of protecting against a default by Greece fell 33
basis points to 698, the lowest since May 31, according to data
provider CMA. Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of
50 mostly junk-rated European companies fell 15 basis points to
454 as of 5:21 p.m. in London, according to Markit Group Ltd.
The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
governments dropped 2 basis points to 144, CMA prices show.  Grains led commodities higher. Corn futures jumped as much
as 8.5 percent, the most allowed by the Chicago Board of Trade,
after the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s reduced crop forecast
Oct. 9. Soybeans advanced to the highest level since June 2009,
and sugar reached the highest price since February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.ne ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  