-- Asian Security Meeting to Test China, U.S. Approach on Disputes
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-10-11T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/asian-security-meeting-to-test-china-u-s-approach-on-maritime-disputes.html
Differences over the best way to
resolve flare-ups in disputed waters off China’s coast will be
tested today at a meeting of defense ministers from 18 Asia-
Pacific countries in Hanoi.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , who described the U.S. as
an “enthusiastic participant” in the meeting, said yesterday
territorial disputes should be solved through regional talks.
China, which last month had run-ins with vessels from Vietnam
and Japan in waters more than 1,000 miles apart, prefers one-on-
one negotiations.  “America’s slightly more interventionist approach to the
South China Sea dispute will most likely harden the Chinese
position,” said Li Mingjiang, assistant professor at the S.
Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore. China
“will implicitly use its military force as leverage” when it
negotiates with Southeast Asian countries, he said.  The meeting comes as the U.S. and China seek to mend ties
strained by U.S. arms sales to Taiwan and support for other
Asian allies. Gates met with Defense Minister General  Liang Guanglie  yesterday and accepted his invitation to visit China
early next year.  China will work to lift military ties with the U.S. “out
of the current on-again, off-again cycle” and enable “a track
of stable and steady development,” Guan Youfei, deputy director
of the Foreign Affairs Office of China’s  Ministry of National
Defense  Guan, told reporters. “Issues such as U.S. arms sales
to Taiwan are important impediments to a wider and deeper”
relationship, he said.  U.S. Remains Committed  Liang also met separately with counterparts from Vietnam
and Japan after Chinese run-ins with their vessels in disputed
waters last month raised tensions in key shipping lanes. Gates
reassured Asian countries that the U.S. remains committed to the
region, and pushed for maritime security to be discussed.  “Relying exclusively on bilateral relationships isn’t
enough -- we need multilateral institutions in order to confront
the most important security challenges in this region,” Gates
said.  Liang and Japan’s Defense Minister,  Toshimi Kitazawa ,
yesterday agreed to create a liaison system to prevent conflicts
at sea, Agence France-Presse reported, citing Jiji Press. Two
Chinese patrol boats withdrew on Oct. 5 from disputed seas
administered by Japan a month after a maritime collision sparked
a diplomatic feud between Asia’s two largest economies.  Liang met Oct. 10 with Vietnamese Communist Party Secretary
General  Nong Duc Manh  and Defense Minister  Phung Quang Thanh  to
discuss deepening military ties, state-run Xinhua reported.
Vietnam last week urged China to release a fishing boat and crew
detained close to islands claimed by several neighboring
countries.  Code of Conduct  China has resisted committing to a code of conduct with the
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations  for operating in disputed
waters and is expanding its navy to project power beyond its
borders, according to an August report by the U.S. Defense
Department. China, Taiwan, Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines
and Brunei hold claims to islands in the South China Sea.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  drew a terse response
from Beijing in July when she called settling territorial
disputes off China’s southern coast “a leading diplomatic
priority.” The comments were “virtually an attack on China,”
Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  said at the time.  The inaugural Asean Defense Ministers Meeting Plus Eight
includes the 10-member Southeast Asian bloc and counterparts
from the U.S., China, Australia, New Zealand, India, Japan,
South Korea and Russia. Gates yesterday called for nations to
discuss maritime security and “peacefully resolving issues.”  ‘Aggressive Behavior’  The U.S. is concerned about China’s “tremendous
investment” in maritime forces and “very aggressive” behavior
off its east coast, Admiral  Mike Mullen , chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff and President  Barack Obama ’s top military
adviser, told reporters on Sept. 29.  The weaponry Taiwan planned to buy includes  Lockheed Martin
Corp.  Patriot missiles valued at $2.8 billion,  United
Technologies Corp.  UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters worth $3.1
billion, and  Boeing Co.  Harpoon missiles costing $37 million.
China had said it planned to punish the companies involved.  China announced in March it would spend 532.1 billion yuan
($79.6 billion) on defense this year. The Pentagon estimates
that actual Chinese military spending is twice that amount. The
Pentagon has requested a total of $708 billion for its
operations, including money for the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan, for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  