-- Aussie Falls on Speculation Gains to Record Were Too Rapid; Kiwi Weakens
-- B y   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i
-- 2010-10-12T05:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/aussie-dollar-is-near-record-on-fed-new-zealand-s-weakens-after-bollard.html
The Australian dollar fell for a
second day amid speculation the currency’s advance last week to
a record was overdone.  The so-called Aussie also declined as swaps prices showed
reduced  expectations  the nation’s central bank will increase
interest rates next month. New Zealand’s dollar weakened after
Reserve Bank Governor  Alan Bollard  said his nation’s economic
recovery is proving fragile.  “Technical charts now suggest that the recent advance in
the Aussie was overdone, encouraging short-term players to cut
back long positions on the currency,” said Masakazu Sato, a
foreign-exchange adviser in Tokyo  at margin company
GaitameOnline Co. A long position is a bet that an asset price
will rise.  Australia’s currency was at 97.93 U.S. cents as of 4:30
p.m. in Sydney from 98.38 cents in New York yesterday. It
reached 99.18 cents on Oct. 7, the strongest level since
exchange controls ended in 1983. The currency was at 80.23 yen
from 80.74 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar fell to 74.98 U.S. cents from 75.18
yesterday. It was at 61.42 yen from 61.70 yen.  The so-called Aussie’s 14-day relative strength index, or
RSI, stayed above 70 for a 13th-consecutive day, a sign the
currency may be poised to fall after rallying too fast.  Swap traders now see a 42 percent chance that the Reserve
Bank of Australia will increase its target rate next month,
according to an index compiled by Credit Suisse AG. The
probability was 66 percent on Oct. 7.  Net Longs  “We think the RBA is likely to stand pat on rates next
month and take action in December,” said Akira Maekawa, a
senior economist at online currency trading company Global
Futures & Forex Ltd. in Tokyo.  Futures traders decreased bets that the Australian dollar
will gain against the greenback, figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed last week. The
 difference  in the number of wagers by hedge funds and other
large speculators on an advance in the Aussie compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 69,036 on Oct. 5,
compared with 69,533 a week earlier.  Losses in the Aussie were limited amid speculation Federal
Reserve officials will reiterate the need to expand stimulus as
the U.S. economy loses traction.  The U.S. central bank is scheduled today to release minutes
of its Sept. 21 meeting, when the Federal Open Market Committee
said it was willing to ease monetary policy further.  The Fed purchased $300 billion of Treasuries in 2009 under
a policy known as quantitative easing, or QE.  Dollar Parity  “We would expect some further fall in the U.S. dollar on
the Fed announcing QE at the early November FOMC meeting,”
wrote  John Kyriakopoulos , head of currency strategy at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney in a note to clients. “The
AUD/USD will hit parity before the year is out.”  Futures on the CME Group exchange show a 32 percent chance
the Fed will cut its target rate for overnight bank lending to
zero by November, up from a 22 percent probability a month ago.
The rate is currently in a range from zero to 0.25 percent.  Benchmark interest rates are 4.5 percent in  Australia  and 3
percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in  Japan 
and the U.S., attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  ‘Brittle’ Recovery  New Zealand’s dollar fell for a second day versus the
dollar after Bollard said he is likely to increase the benchmark
interest rate gradually from historically low levels to aid a
“brittle” economic recovery.  “Over time the official cash rate will move back to more
neutral levels, but this process will likely be slow,” Bollard
wrote in the bank’s annual report, dated Sept. 9 and published
today on its  website . The rate is unlikely to need to rise as
far as in previous recoveries, he said.  Bollard kept the  cash rate  unchanged at 3 percent on Sept.
16 and lowered his outlook for economic growth amid sluggish
domestic spending and a slowdown in global demand. Europe has
disappointed with its frail fiscal picture, the U.S. has a weak
labor market and Japan continues to struggle with deflation, he
said in the report.  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand’s next rate-setting meeting
is scheduled for Oct. 28.  Australian bonds rose, with the yield on the benchmark 10-
year note falling two basis points to 4.98 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a
fixed payment made to receive floating rates, was little changed
at 3.76 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 