-- Australian Home-Loan Approvals Increase 1% in August, Matching Estimates
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-11T01:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/australian-home-loan-approvals-climb-even-after-rba-s-interest-rate-boosts.html
Australian  home-loan approvals 
climbed in August for a second straight month, adding to the
case for the central bank to resume raising interest rates.  The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments gained 1 percent to 47,540 from a month earlier, when
they rose a revised 1.8 percent, the statistics bureau said in
Sydney today. That matched the  median estimate  of 21 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  A rebound in demand for home loans, which tumbled for seven
straight months through April as the central bank embarked on
the most aggressive round of interest-rate increases by a Group
of 20 member, may bolster economic growth in the second half of
the year. Central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  last week extended
a pause in raising rates for a fifth month, while saying higher
borrowing costs will likely be needed “at some point.”  “It does appear that a period of relative rate stability
is seeing a modest lift in activity,” said  Adam Carr , a senior
economist at ICAP Australia Ltd. in Sydney who forecast today’s
1 percent gain. “The modest rise will likely mean nothing for
policy, although if other housing indicators pick up, then that
is one less obstacle to further rate hikes.”  The Australian dollar was little changed at 98.70 U.S.
cents at 12:20 p.m. in Sydney from 98.83 cents before the report
was released.  Loan Value  The total value of loans fell 1.3 percent to A$20.1 billion
($19.9 billion) in August, today’s report showed.  The value of lending to owner-occupiers was unchanged, the
report showed. The value of loans to investors who plan to rent
or resell homes dropped 3.9 percent.  First-home buyers accounted for 15.5 percent of dwellings
that were financed in August, down from 15.9 percent in July and
lower than 24.7 percent a year earlier, the statistics bureau
said today.  The International Monetary Fund cautioned last week that
housing in Australia may be overvalued and a reversal in prices
could hurt consumers. House prices in eight major cities rose by
18.4 percent in the year to June, prompting some analysts to
warn of a bubble.  In contrast, central bank Deputy Governor  Ric Battellino 
said in an Oct. 8 speech that “borrowing for housing is broadly
growing in line with income, house prices are stable and there
is little appetite for other forms of debt. From the Reserve
Bank’s perspective, this seems to be a satisfactory state of
affairs.”  The central bank’s six quarter-point rate increases in the
past year added about A$3,600 a year to repayments on an average
A$300,000 mortgage.  The earlier drop in borrowing accelerated after the start
of last year’s fourth quarter as the government began reducing
A$21,000 grants to first-time buyers of newly built dwellings.
Those grants were lowered in two steps to A$7,000 by Jan. 1.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  