-- Australian Dollar Gains Amid Speculation Fed Will Increase Bond Purchases
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-10-11T05:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/australian-dollar-gains-amid-speculation-fed-will-increase-bond-purchases.html
The Australian dollar was near the
highest level since it began trading freely in 1983 amid
speculation Federal Reserve officials will reiterate the need to
expand stimulus, boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  The Aussie gained for the first time in three days versus
the yen after home-loan  approvals  climbed for a second-straight
month in August, strengthening the case for Australia’s central
bank to increase its benchmark interest rate next month. New
Zealand’s dollar last week completed its third-straight five-day
gain after an Oct. 8 report showed the U.S. lost more jobs in
September than forecast. That added to concern the Fed will
launch a bond-buying program in so-called quantitative easing.  “The market is very keen to take the Aussie higher,” said
 Khoon Goh , head of market economics at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in
Wellington. “The rhetoric is certainly pointing toward
providing more stimulus for the U.S. economy and that’s why the
market is pricing in a decent probability of QE2, putting the
U.S. dollar under downward pressure.”  Australia’s currency fetched 98.55 U.S. cents as of 4:21
p.m. in Sydney from 98.50 cents last week in New York after
reaching as high as 99.18 cents on Oct. 7. That was the
strongest level since exchange controls ended in 1983. The
currency advanced 0.2 percent to 80.84 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar traded at 75.39 U.S. cents from 75.57
on Oct. 8 when it completed a 1.5 percent weekly advance. It was
little changed at 61.84 yen.  UBS AG, the world’s second-largest foreign exchange trader,
said today that betting on gains in the Aussie and the Swiss
franc would be the best way to take advantage of a weak
greenback ahead of the Fed’s November policy meeting.  ‘Dollar Bears’  Fed Bank of New York President William Dudley is scheduled
to speak today at an Institute of International Bankers event.
The central bank will release minutes from its September meeting
on Oct. 12, while officials including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
are scheduled to speak later in the week.  “In the near term Fed easing expectations will keep the
U.S. dollar weak,”  Mansoor Mohi-uddin , the Singapore-based head
of global currency strategy at UBS, wrote in a note to clients
today. “The two currencies that seem to be the best near-term
bets for dollar bears ahead of the November FOMC meeting are the
Australian dollar and the Swiss franc.”  UBS forecasts that the Reserve Bank of Australia will raise
rates when policy makers meet Nov. 2.  Australian home-loan approvals rose 1 percent in August
from a month earlier, the statistics bureau said today, matching
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Kiwi Strength  Benchmark interest rates are 4.5 percent in  Australia  and 3
percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in  Japan 
and the U.S., attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  New Zealand Prime Minister John Key said recent gains by
the currency are starting to create concerns for exporters.  The so-called kiwi’s strength reflected weakness in the U.S.
economy, which puts the New Zealand government and the central
bank in a very difficult position, Key said.  “The Canadian and New Zealand dollars continue to
represent good alternatives to the Australian dollar in terms of
a long commodity currency/short U.S. dollar position,”
Singapore-based  David Forrester , a currency economist at
Barclays Capital, wrote in a note to clients today. “Both
positioning and local data surprises potentially lend more
support” to the two currencies.  Futures traders decreased bets that the Australian dollar
will gain against the greenback, figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The  difference 
in the number of wagers by hedge funds and other large
speculators on an advance in the Aussie compared with those on a
drop -- so-called net longs -- was 69,036 on Oct. 5, compared
with 69,533 a week earlier.  Futures traders raised  bets  on gains in Canada’s dollar to
42,678 on Oct. 5, compared with net longs of 27,870 on Sept. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 