-- Mining Boom Rivals 1850s Gold Rush, Australian Treasurer Swan Tells NYSE
-- B y   M a r i o n   R a e
-- 2010-10-11T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/australia-s-mining-boom-rivals-1850s-gold-rush-swan-tells-nyse.html
Australia needs capital to support
its biggest mining expansion in more than 150 years, while other
countries grapple with unemployment, debt and sluggish growth,
the nation’s Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “Australia is about to embark on its biggest mining
investment boom since the 1850s Gold Rush,” Swan said in the
prepared text of a speech today at the New York Stock Exchange.
“This pushes us to pick up the pace of reform, to make
Australia an even more attractive investment destination.”  The Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource
Economics estimates the current pipeline of resource projects in
Australia at nearly A$360 billion ($355 billion) on sustained
demand from China and India for resources from the world’s
biggest exporter of iron ore and coal.  Mining-investment plans are up almost 50 percent, or five
times more than levels six years ago, Swan said. A government
report Oct. 7 showed employment gained in September for a
seventh straight month as mining propelled an economy with an
unemployment rate about half the levels in Europe and the U.S.  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s minority Labor
government plans to cut the company tax rate to 29 percent from
30 percent and build roads, rail and ports to support growth,
funded by a mining levy from 2012 that is yet to be legislated.  ‘Patchy’ Recovery  “The global recovery is patchy, it’s uneven, and it’s
uncertain,” Swan said.  The challenge for the global economy is “to lift growth,
not just shift growth,” he said after weekend meetings with
world finance chiefs in Washington, where officials clashed over
exchange-rate policies in emerging markets. “Currency reform is
an important element of this reform agenda, but it is not the
only issue,” he said.  The Australian dollar reached 99.18 U.S. cents on Oct. 7,
the highest level since exchange controls were removed in 1983.  The Reserve Bank of Australia expects growth to accelerate
amid investment by companies such as Chevron Corp., which is
building the A$43 billion Gorgon liquefied natural gas project
in Western Australia. The International Monetary Fund forecasts
Australian economic growth to reach 3.5 percent next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at   mrae3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  