-- Baby Boomers Pushing Surge in Therapies for Fading Eyesight
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-10-11T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/baby-boomers-fuel-surge-in-therapies-for-fading-eyesight-researchers-find.html
The number of older Americans
getting help for fading eyesight almost tripled by 2007
from a decade earlier as the nation aged and treatment improved
with approaches such as  Roche Holding AG ’s Lucentis.  Medicare  recipients in 2007 received 812,413 injections
into the eye with drugs like Roche’s Lucentis for  macular
degeneration  or Avastin, up from fewer than 5,000 a year from
1997 to 2001, a study in the  Archives of Ophthalmology  found.
Use of rival drugs, laser treatments and photodynamic therapy,
such as  QLT Inc. ’s Visudyne, plunged, according to researchers
from Johns Hopkins University’s Wilmer Eye Institute.  A review of 146,942 patients in Medicare, the U.S.
government program for the elderly and disabled, found Lucentis
and Avastin are safe for the heart, easing concern they could
unintentionally increase heart attacks, bleeding, stroke or
deaths. While Avastin is approved to treat cancer, it works the
same way as Lucentis and is much cheaper when doctors inject a
tiny amount into the eye. It was linked to heart complications
at higher doses used to treat tumors, said researchers from Duke
University School of Medicine in Durham, North Carolina.  Patients “always ask us about the side effects of the
injection,” Scott Cousins, an ophthalmologist at Duke Eye
Center, said in a statement. “Now I can tell them that these
medications appear to be safe.”  There were 1.24 million eye-improvement procedures done in
2007, compared with 432,755 in 1997, according to the Johns
Hopkins research.  About 1.5 percent of those older than 40, or 1.75 million
Americans, have age-related macular degeneration, according to
the  National Eye Institute . The number is expected to reach 3
million by 2020 as the population ages, the agency  says . Avastin
and Lucentis are used for the “wet” form of the disease, which
destroys vision as tiny blood vessels leak into the light-
sensing cells of the macula, the most sensitive part of the eye.  The drugs, from Basel, Switzerland-based Roche, are
genetically engineered antibodies that block a protein used to
form the damaging blood vessels that proliferate in the eyes of
patients with AMD.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  