-- Banks Voice Resistance as Regulators Say Basel Is Just a Start
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2010-10-11T15:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/bankers-voice-resistance-as-national-regulators-say-basel-is-just-a-start.html
National bank regulators risk
undermining a fragile economic recovery if they pursue a new
round of capital and liquidity rules beyond those agreed
internationally, bankers said at a gathering in Washington.  Central bankers told executives at weekend meetings to
expect more financial rules, especially for the largest firms,
after international regulators set minimum standards in Basel
last month. If countries surpass that accord, they will deny
banks a level playing field and impede growth, chief executive
officers including Deutsche Bank AG’s  Josef Ackermann  and
 Standard Chartered Plc ’s  Peter Sands  warned at the annual
meeting of the  Institute of International Finance .  “There are growing signs that global coordination is
fizzling and unilateral actions are pending,” said Ackermann,
chairman of the IIF, which represents more than 400 financial
institutions. “Global banks will have to comply with the higher
rules in every jurisdiction, regardless of their home base. That
will steal from credit to companies and hurt job creation.”  Lobbying groups are shifting attention to national
regulators after the industry persuaded some international rule
makers that proposed rules may stunt economic growth. The Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision softened planned capital and
liquidity requirements last month, then gave lenders about a
decade to comply. Countries such as Switzerland and the U.K.,
which had pushed for tougher rules, are moving ahead with
additional restrictions to rein in their banks.  UBS, Credit Suisse  “It’s possible that financial centers may start competing
for prudential rigor,’  Charles Freeland , former deputy secretary
general of the Basel Committee, said in a telephone interview
today. “Most banks want to be based in a financial center that
is perceived to be well regulated.”  Switzerland last week proposed the first capital surcharge
on too-big-to-fail banks. A government-appointed panel said UBS
AG and Credit Suisse Group AG need to hold almost double the
capital required under Basel III rules. The plans still have to
be endorsed by the government and approved by Parliament.  Central bankers that addressed the IIF members during the
group’s annual gathering said some rules may surpass Basel III,
as the new version of the global capital standards are named.
 Philipp Hildebrand , president of the Swiss National Bank,  Mark Carney , Bank of Canada’s governor, and  William Dudley , head of
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said Basel only set a
minimum and more should be expected. Bank of England’s deputy
governor  Paul Tucker  echoed that phrase when addressing
reporters at another venue yesterday.  ‘Want Economic Recovery’  Those central bankers were the same ones pushing for
tougher rules and faster implementation within the Basel
committee, which is made up bank regulators and central banks
from 27 countries, as it formulated its new rules. They were
countered by France, Germany and Japan, whose politicians
expressed concern about the economic impacts of the
restrictions, amid warnings from Ackermann, 62, and other
bankers. Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank is Germany’s biggest
lender.  “If you’re right and we’re wrong, it’d be a genuine
mistake on our part,” Tucker told a group of bankers a
symposium today organized by the Institute of International
Bankers, which represents foreign banks in the U.S. “We are the
macro-economic authorities and we want economic recovery. That’s
why we want a strong banking system.”  In June, the IIF published a report predicting that bank
regulations would shave off 3.1 percentage points from economic
growth in the developed world. Though the Basel committee’s
original proposals were softened, the IIF isn’t reducing that
estimate, the industry group said yesterday. That’s because
benefits of Basel compromises may be offset if national policy
makers enact additional measures and international regulators
impose surcharges for the largest banks, the IIF said.  ‘Too Much Divergence’  “We never expected 100 percent uniform implementation of
Basel rules worldwide, but we’re worried about too much
divergence,” said Sands, 48, an IIF board member. London-based
Standard Chartered gets more than three quarters of its earnings
from Asia.  A study done by the Basel committee and the International
Monetary Fund found the impact on those nations’ economies to be
about one-eighth of the IIF estimate.  Bankers from around the world also expressed concern at the
IIF meeting that some national regulators, along with investors
in bank stocks, will force a faster adoption of the rules than
Basel’s timetable requires. Central bankers sought to ease those
concerns. Bank of Canada’s Carney said the timetable won’t be
accelerated if banks need breathing space. The New York Fed’s
Dudley said markets would respect the implementation plan and
not push for faster compliance.  Long Time Frame  “We gave the long time frame not because banks advocated
it, but because we realize the fragility of the economy,” said
Swiss National Bank’s Hildebrand, 47.  Bankers also warned regulators that they were assuming it
would be easy for lenders to raise fresh capital to comply with
the increased requirements. Banks in emerging markets are better
capitalized than their counterparts in the developed world
because emerging economies have better growth potential, said
 Bank of America Corp.  CEO  Brian Moynihan , 51. The Charlotte,
North Carolina-based firm is the biggest U.S. lender by assets.  “If you don’t have growth prospects and you increase
capital requirements, which means lower returns on equity going
forward, where do you find new capital?” Moynihan asked
regulators during a panel discussion during the weekend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yalman Onaran  in Washington at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  