-- Barnier Says Talks on European Hedge-Fund Regulation to Continue This Week
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-10-11T16:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/barnier-says-talks-on-european-hedge-fund-regulation-to-continue-this-week.html
Talks aimed at reaching an agreement
on plans to regulate hedge-fund managers in Europe will continue
on Oct. 14, after negotiations among lawmakers in Brussels ended
today without an accord.  This week will be “decisive” for discussions on plans to
allow managers of hedge funds and private equity firms outside
the European Union to access investors across the region with a
single registration, known as a passport,  Michel Barnier , the EU
financial services commissioner, said in an e-mailed statement.  “A consensus is emerging on the principle of a passport
and an important role” for the European Securities and Markets
Authority as a regulator for hedge-fund and private-equity
managers, Barnier said.  The  European Commission , the EU’s executive arm, proposed
rules last year to regulate hedge-fund and private-equity
managers, which would restrict bonuses and require investment
strategies to be disclosed to regulators. Governments and
lawmakers must agree on a final version of the measures before
they can enter into force in the 27-nation EU.  “There’s a chance we could be close to a deal, but there’s
also a chance we could be far apart,”  Syed Kamall , a U.K.
Conservative member of the European Parliament, said in a
telephone interview.  “I know the Left is in general pushing for more onerous
rules for private equity managers. My view is that we’ve given
them enough,” said Kamall, who attended today’s talks.  Press Conference  Lawmakers at the  European Parliament  canceled a press
conference today after negotiations with national officials and
the European Commission failed to yield an agreement.  Whether lawmakers can agree on the proposals before finance
ministers from the 27 EU member states meet to discuss them in
Luxembourg on Oct. 18 depends on “what the parliament’s
political groups make of the Belgian presidency’s compromise
proposals,” Kamall said.  Belgium, which currently holds the rotating presidency of
the EU, is responsible for writing and proposing a new draft of
the law.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  