-- Battersea Power Station Owner Gets Payment Deferral
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-10-11T12:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/battersea-power-station-redevelopment-loan-payments-deferred-till-may-2011.html
The owner of London’s  Battersea
Power Station , Europe’s largest brick building, reached an
agreement to defer all payments on outstanding loan notes until
next year.  Real Estate Opportunities Plc  issued 150 million pounds
($239 million) of loan notes to  Victor Hwang  when it bought the
disused power station from the Hong Kong property developer in
November 2006. REO won’t make any interest or principal payments
until May 31, 2011, according to a statement today.  Reaching an agreement with Hwang was a condition set by
REO’s banks and Ireland’s National Asset Management Agency in
August for the extension loans totaling 263 million pounds for a
year and waiving breaches of their terms.  “The agreement also confirms the basis of a wider
compromise arrangement,” the Jersey-based developer said in the
statement. “A further announcement setting out the agreed
financial restructuring terms will be made in due course.”  REO is due to pay a total of 371 million pounds to the
holders of various loan notes and zero dividend preference
shares when they mature in May, the company said in its annual
report in June. Based on its current financial position, REO
wouldn’t be in a position repay the money, it said.  ‘Positive Step’  “This increases the likelihood that all of the parties
will come to a compromise,”  Samir Shah , an analyst at London-
based Matrix Corporate Capital LLP, said by telephone today.
“It’s a good and positive step.” Matrix is an adviser to the
company.  REO plans to separate the power station, a London landmark,
from its Irish real estate holdings by the end of this year,
according to a June 23 statement. The company reported a loss of
872 million pounds for the 14 months through February after its
Irish properties lost half their value.  The company plans to build 3,700 homes and 2.3 million
square feet (214,000 square meters) of offices and shops on the
derelict 38-acre site. Wandsworth Council has yet to grant
permission for the project. Hwang and John Broome before him
spent 25 years trying unsuccessfully to redevelop the power
station, which appears on the cover of Pink Floyd’s  “Animals” 
album.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 