-- Billionaires Plump for Longer Dollar Bonds as Costs Decline: India Credit
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-10-11T19:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/billionaires-plump-for-longer-dollar-bonds-as-costs-decline-india-credit.html
India’s billionaires are preparing
to sell the longest-dated dollar-denominated bonds in more than
a decade as global demand for the nation’s assets allows them to
extend payment schedules and lower funding costs.  Reliance Industries Ltd. , the oil refiner controlled by
 Mukesh Ambani , is organizing a sale of bonds with maturities of
up to 30 years, India’s longest-dated dollar notes since at
least January 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Essar Energy Plc , controlled by  Shashi  and  Ravi Ruia , may sell
its first foreign-currency bonds next year, with maturities up
to eight years to save 1 to 2 percentage points on the interest
rate, compared with rupee funds.  There have been six dollar bond sales with maturities of at
least five years in India this year, excluding perpetual bonds,
compared with three in the same period of 2009 and two in 2008,
Bloomberg data show.  “India is growing so massively that everyone wants to
increase leverage, and the dollar bond market is attractive,”
said  Manoj Kulkarni , head of credit research at brokerage SJS
Markets Ltd. in Hong Kong. “As companies get bigger and can tap
the bond market for longer-term financing, this is better from a
credit perspective” than loans, Kulkarni said.  Rising Sales  Dollar-denominated bond sales in India this year reached
$7.4 billion, up from $1.5 billion in the similar period of 2009
and $3 billion in 2008, Bloomberg data show.  Borrowing costs are lower for Asian corporate high-yield
dollar issuers than India’s government. The yield on India’s 7.8
percent note due May 2020 reached 8 percent yesterday, up 0.48
percentage point since July 1. The average yield on the Merrill
Lynch Asian Dollar Corporates, High Yield index dropped to 7.87
percent on Oct. 8 from 10.15 percent on July 1. India is rated
Baa3, the lowest investment-grade by Moody’s Investors Service.  “The dollar bond market offers diversity of funding and
you can’t get that sort of duration in the loans market,” said
 Rogerio Bernardo , fixed-income syndicate director at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in Singapore.  JSW Steel Ltd. , controlled by the Jindal family, ranked
last month by Forbes magazine as India’s fifth-richest with a
fortune of $14.4 billion, said in August it plans to sell its
first dollar bonds in three years as rupee-denominated finance
costs rise. “India’s interest rates are on the move,” Chief
Financial Officer  D. Seshagiri Rao  said at the time. “This is
not the time to tie-up rupee funding.”  Relative Rates  The  difference between  India’s benchmark lending rate and
the six-month London Interbank Offered Rate has widened to a two
year high of 5.54 percentage points, as India’s central bank
sought to curb inflation while the U.S. Federal Reserve flooded
its economy with cash to revive growth.  The cost of fixing rates on money for three years with
interest-rate swaps rose 13 basis points last week to 6.95
percent, Bloomberg data show.  ICICI Bank Ltd. , India’s second-
largest lender,  raised  its base rate 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, to 7.75 percent effective Oct. 6, while State
Bank of India, the country’s largest, said it won’t lend  below 
7.5 percent as of July.  By contrast, coupons paid on bond sales of at least $100
million this year average 4.7 percent, versus 6.4 percent in the
same period of 2007, before the global financial crisis.  ‘Sharper’ Increases  “The response of India’s banks to the steady monetary
tightening policy pursued by the Reserve Bank of India has been
measured and gradual in the first half,” local risk assessor
Crisil Ltd. said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “Crisil
expects sharper rate hikes in the second half, given the strong
expectations of a healthy pick up in credit demand.”  The  difference  in yields between Indian 10-year debt and
U.S. Treasuries widened to a record 5.605 percentage points
yesterday. India’s central bank raised its  repurchase rate  five
times this year to 6 percent.  The rupee was little changed yesterday at 44.41 to the
dollar, after rising for six straight weeks. The longest rally
in a year was fueled by inflows as data from the  Securities and
Exchange Board of India  showed overseas investors poured $10
billion into rupee debt this year, more than the previous eight
years combined.  Listed in London, Essar Energy will seek a credit rating
and may sell notes due in seven or eight years, Chief Financial
Officer  P. Sampath  said in an interview in Mumbai on Oct. 8.  Bonds Outstanding  The company, which plans to boost the amount of power it
generates to 11,470 megawatts by 2014 and expand its refinery on
India’s west coast amid rising demand for energy, has the
equivalent of $7.1 billion outstanding in project loans from
Indian banks on which it pays interest of about 10 percent to
11.5 percent, Sampath said.  Reliance Communications Ltd. , India’s second-largest mobile
phone company and controlled by billionaire  Anil Ambani , brother
of Mukesh Ambani, approached banks seeking dollar-denominated
funding that it calculates would be as much as 4 percentage
points cheaper than similar financing in rupees, a person with
direct knowledge of the plan said yesterday. The person declined
to be identified because the talks are private.  Companies in India have $195 billion of bonds, more than
Brazil’s $177 billion, Bloomberg data show. Power Finance Corp.,
a company tasked with raising funds to power India’s state
utilities, is the most indebted, with $11.8 billion of bonds
outstanding at an average maturity of 6.2 years, while ICICI and
 Housing Development Finance Corp ., India’s largest mortgage
lender, are second and third, with $9 billion and $8.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 Knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 