-- Billionaire Mhaiskar Plans to Build $1 Billion of Road Projects Each Year
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2010-10-11T07:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/billionaire-mhaiskar-plans-to-build-1-billion-of-road-projects-each-year.html
Billionaire  Virendra Mhaiskar  said
his  IRB Infrastructure Developers Ltd.  plans to build $1 billion
of roads each year as India accelerates investment in highways,
ports and power plants.  The company has bid to build 25,000 kilometers (15,537
miles) of roads, Mhaiskar said in an interview in Mumbai today.
IRB will fund the projects using its  profit , he said. The
company has contracts to build 100 billion rupees ($2.25
billion) of roads, Mhaiskar said.  IRB,  backed by  Blackstone Group LP, wants part of the $1
trillion that India will need to spend on building roads, ports
and power plants between 2012 and 2017. At least half the
investment should come from companies, according to the Planning
Commission. India, which has the highest density of highways in
the world, ranks below war-ravaged Ivory Coast for the quality
of infrastructure.  “The need for India in infrastructure is as good as the
need for bread and butter,” said Vinod Nair, analyst at Pioneer
Investcorp Ltd., who has a “hold” recommendation for the
stock. “If a fund wants to invest in Indian stocks,
infrastructure will definitely figure in its portfolio and will
include IRB.”  IRB’s  shares  have risen 7.8 percent this year,
 underperforming  the benchmark Sensitive Index, which has
advanced 16.5 percent. IRB added 0.2 percent to 264.55 rupees at
12:36 p.m. in Mumbai.  India’s Road Transport and Highways Minister  Kamal Nath  has
set a target of building 20 kilometers of highways a day through
2015 as the government tries to ease congestion and accelerate
economic growth. Of this, the government is building 13
kilometers a day as of now, he said on Oct. 6.  Easing Rules  The delay in building roads and the inadequacy of the
nation’s utilities and transport network shaves 2 percentage
points from growth, the Finance Ministry estimates. The economy
has expanded an average 8.5 percent in the last five years.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  last month allowed overseas
investors to buy $5 billion more of obligations sold by
infrastructure companies.  Mhaiskar is ranked India’s 55th richest man with assets of
$1.17 billion, according to Forbes magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  