-- BOE Rate Will Stay Low Amid `Stormy Seas,' Arcadia's Green Says
-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2010-10-12T09:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/boe-rate-will-stay-low-as-u-k-endures-stormy-seas-arcadia-s-green-says.html
The Bank of England’s benchmark
 interest rate  will probably stay close to a record low for the
next two years as the U.K. economy weathers “stormy seas,”
said  Philip Green , the billionaire owner of  Arcadia Group Ltd.   “The worst hopefully is behind,” the retail executive
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television late yesterday in
London. “Do I think there’s still some stormy seas? Yes,” he
said, predicting that U.K. interest rates “don’t go far for the
next 18 months, two years.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday that the
British economy is making “good progress” and that slowing
global growth and the pace of bank lending in the U.K. pose
risks to the recovery. Bank of England officials have split on
whether to raise interest rates to curb inflation or add
stimulus to avert the threat of a further slump.  “There’s clearly going to be inflation,” Green said.
“But I think all the central banks realize they can’t do
anything with interest rates in the short term and that’s
probably weathering part of the storm.”  U.K.  inflation  stayed at 3.1 percent in September,
exceeding the government’s limit for a seventh month, as higher
clothing and food costs kept up price pressures in the economy,
the Office for National Statistics said in London today.  ‘More Careful’  The  Bank of England  has kept its benchmark rate at a record
low of 0.5 percent since March 2009. Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  began arguing in June this year that officials should
raise it to curb inflation, while his colleague  Adam Posen  said
last month that the economy needs more stimulus to ward off the
threat of deflation.  The central bank must not tighten monetary policy too soon
and risk hurting an “immature” economic recovery, policy maker
 David Miles  said today.  Green said consumers have retrenched in the wake of the
recession and as they anticipate Britain’s deepest budget
squeeze since World War II. Retail sales unexpectedly dropped
0.5 percent in September and  consumer confidence  on GfK NOP’s
gauge fell more than economists forecast.  “At every level of life, everybody’s become more
careful,” Green said. “Whether you’re a business, whether
you’re a consumer, whether you’re a saver, everybody’s become
more aware.”  That’s created a difficult environment for retailers, said
Green, whose company owns the Topshop, Dorothy Perkins and
Burton brands and BHS department stores.  “It’s tough,” he said. “If you look at some of the
different companies reporting, it’s not just about price, it’s
about people finding something they want to spend their money
on.”  Green spoke after publishing a report yesterday calling on
the government to use its buying power and credit rating to cut
procurement costs after a two-month review commissioned by
Cameron.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francine Lacqua  in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Stirling  in London at 
 Cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net . 