-- Bourses to Take Pre-Market Bids on Biggest Indian Stocks to Cut Volatility
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2010-10-11T07:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/bourses-to-take-pre-market-bids-on-biggest-indian-stocks-to-cut-volatility.html
India’s two largest stock exchanges
will allow investors to put in bids for shares before bourses
open to reduce price swings.  The  National Stock Exchange , India’s biggest, and the
Bombay Stock Exchange, Asia’s oldest, will introduce a 15-minute
session during which buy and sell orders can be placed and
matched for benchmark stocks before trading starts at 9:15 a.m.
local time starting on Oct. 18. The markets now open at 9 a.m.
with no trading before exchanges open.  “It will be like a trailer before the real movie begins,”
said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at securities
firm SMC Global Ltd. in New Delhi. “It will help in the
international integration of Indian exchanges.”  The Sensex has surged 16 percent this year and is the best
performer among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets as overseas
investors bought a record $21 billion of Indian equities. The
government may allow overseas individuals to buy stocks for the
first time, easing a rule that restricts investment to mutual
funds, a finance ministry official with direct knowledge of the
matter said on Oct. 8.  Investors will have as long as eight minutes to place,
modify or cancel orders before the indicative offers are matched
with electronic trading system-determined opening prices between
9:08 a.m. and 9:15 a.m., Bombay Stock Exchange’s head of product
strategy  Sayee Srinivasan  said in a telephone interview. The
period could be as short as short as seven minutes to deter
orders aimed at skewing prices, and there will be a 20 percent
limit imposed on swings, he said.  ‘Integration’  “This will lead to greater transparency and better price
discovery,” Srinivasan said. “The uncertainty about higher
volatility at the open will be reduced.”  The bourses later plan to extend the preopening session to
companies outside of the 30-member Bombay Stock Exchange’s
benchmark  Sensitive Index , or the Sensex, and the 50 stocks on
the National Stock Exchange’s Nifty Index.  “The price will be determined by demand and supply,” said
Divya Malik Lahiri, spokeswoman at the National Stock Exchange.
“It’s a common practice in international exchanges to keep
volatility in check.”  From January this year, both of the exchanges brought
forward trading hours by 55 minutes to 9 a.m. to boost volume.
They are also introducing new products, cutting transaction
costs and are partnering with exchanges in Singapore, London
and Chicago  as more investors seek to buy Indian equities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net  