-- Bovespa Stock-Index Increases as Fed Bets Overshadow Inflation Forecast
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-10-11T20:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/bovespa-stock-index-futures-rise-as-fed-bets-overshadow-inflation-forecast.html
The  Bovespa  stock index rose for a
second day on speculation the Federal Reserve will take further
measures to stimulate growth for the second-biggest buyer of
Brazil’s exports, overshadowing higher inflation forecasts.  Real-estate firm  Brookfield Incorporacoes SA  capped the
biggest two-day gain since May after contracted sales jumped.
 BM&FBovespa SA , the operator of the Sao Paulo exchange, rose to
a record as Bank of America Corp. said it will benefit from
increased inflows following  Petroleo Brasileiro SA ’s record $70
billion share sale.  Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA , the
world’s fourth-largest aircraft maker, gained the most in three
weeks after a report said it plans to keep operations in China.  The  Bovespa  gained 0.2 percent to 70,946.49 as of the 4
p.m. New York time close. Thirty-six stocks rose on the index
while 30 fell. The real weakened 0.2 percent to 1.67 per dollar.
The market will be closed tomorrow for a holiday.  “It’s a matter of time for a new measure to be
announced,” said  Leonardo Boguszewski , who helps oversee 380
million reais ($227.6 million) at Parana Banco Asset Management
in Curitiba, Brazil. “The market will react positively to
that.”  The Fed will buy as much as $65 billion in Treasuries a
month as it attempts to stem U.S. job losses,  Mansoor Mohi- uddin , head of global currency strategy at UBS AG, wrote in a
report.  Brazil’s consumer prices will rise this year and next more
than analysts previously expected, according to a central bank
survey, adding to pressure for policy makers to resume interest-
rate increases early next year.  Inflation  Inflation will quicken to 4.98 percent in 2011, up from a
week-earlier forecast of 4.92 percent, according to the median
forecast in an Oct. 8 central bank survey of about 100
economists published today. For 2010, prices will rise 5.15
percent by year-end, compared with a week-earlier forecast of
5.07 percent, the survey shows.  Brookfield surged 4.3 percent to 9.81 reais, for a two-day
gain of 8.6 percent. The company said Oct. 8 that third-quarter
contracted sales grew 32 percent from a year earlier to 823.6
million reais.  BM&FBovespa  BM&FBovespa , the operator of Latin America’s biggest
securities exchange, advanced 3.4 percent to 15.05 reais, the
highest price since the stock began trading in August 2008
following the merger of Bovespa Holding SA and BM&F Bolsa de
Mercadorias e Futuros. Petrobras’s stock offering boosted
volumes last month, and the company will benefit from “stronger
cash equity flows and capital markets activity in Brazil,” Bank
of America analyst  Jorg Friedemann  wrote in a note to clients.  Embraer, as the Brazilian jet builder is known, plans to
maintain its operations in China, even if dwindling new orders
force a factory there to close, O Estado de S. Paulo reported
Oct. 9, citing an interview with Chief Executive Officer
 Frederico Curado . Embraer gained 2.2 percent to 12.06 reais.  The  Bovespa  index trades at 10.6 times analysts’ 2011
earnings estimates, compared with 11 times for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 14.3 times
for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 15.3 times the reported profits
of its companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  