-- Brazil Presidential Candidates Clash Over Abortion, Asset Sales in Debate
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2010-10-11T05:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/brazil-presidential-hopefuls-clash-over-abortion-privatizations.html
Brazilian presidential frontrunner
 Dilma Rousseff  accused her opponent  Jose Serra  of spreading
“lies” about her views on abortion, and the two candidates
clashed over past sales of state assets, in their first head-
to-head debate before an Oct. 31 runoff election.  Serra, in the debate yesterday hosted by Band TV network,
accused President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva’s  former cabinet
chief of abandoning her Workers’ Party’s traditional support for
abortion rights to woo religious voters as the race tightens.  “You clearly said you were in favor of legalizing abortion
and then you changed and said the opposite,” said the pro-life
Serra, who finished 14 percentage points behind Rousseff in the
first round of voting Oct. 3. “It’s about being coherent, and
not two-faced, saying one thing and then another.”  Rousseff, in response, said Serra has “a thousand faces”
and accused his campaign of using “slander” and promoting
personal attacks that falsely accuse her of favoring the killing
of babies.  “The question is whether we are going to be hypocritical
and pretend not to see the three-and-a-half million women who
perform abortions in precarious conditions,” Rousseff said.
“Are we going to arrest them or take care of them?”  Rousseff’s remarks during the campaign that abortion is a
“public health issue” rather than a religious one may have
cost her votes and pushed the election into a runoff. The issue
dominated campaigning over the past week, as both candidates
appeal to the 19 percent of voters who cast ballots for Green
Party candidate  Marina Silva , a pro-life, evangelical Christian.  Abortion is legal in Brazil only if a pregnancy results
from a rape or if it puts the mother’s life at risk.  New Poll  Rousseff had 48 percent support in a Datafolha poll
published Oct. 9 compared with 41 percent for Serra, the former
governor of Sao Paulo. Another 11 percent were undecided in the
nationwide poll of 3,265 people taken Oct. 8 and which had a
margin of error of plus or minus two percentage points. Rousseff
won 47 percent and Serra 33 percent in the first round.  Rousseff, a former Marxist guerrilla, has pledged
continuity with her mentor’s policies that helped lift 21
million out of poverty since 2003. Latin America’s biggest
economy will grow 7.3 percent this year, the  most  in more than
two decades, according to central bank estimates.  Serra, the former governor of Sao Paulo state, has vowed to
maintain Lula’s social programs while moving faster to reduce
the world’s second-highest real interest rate and the highest
tax burden in the developing world.  Both candidates have vowed to reduce Brazil’s  debt levels 
as a percent of gross domestic product though have said little
about how they intend to rein in public spending that rose 18.2
percent in July from the same month a year ago, more than twice
the 8.8 percent rate of economic growth in the second quarter.  Privatizing Petrobras  In last night’s debate, the two candidates avoided
discussing their economic policies in detail, and instead traded
attacks over the sale of state-run companies.  Rousseff, 62, questioned Serra’s commitment to Petroleo
Brasileiro SA, saying his campaign adviser  David Zylbersztajn ,
the former president of the National Petroleum Agency, favors
privatizing the development of oil fields in the offshore so-
called pre-salt region that Lula granted to the state-run oil
company.  Lula’s government increased the state’s participation of
the company through a $70 billion share sale last month, while
Serra’s Social Democracy Party reduced its stake and saddled the
company with debt when it was in power last decade, Rousseff
said.  “This creates a doubt: are they only in favor of
privatizing pre-salt or do they also want to privatize
Petrobras,” said Rousseff, who stepped down as chairwoman of
the Rio de Janeiro-based company in March. “Defending the
privatization of pre-salt means taking away money for investment
in education, science and technology and the environment.”  Strengthening the State  Serra, 68, denied he had any plans to privatize Petrobras.
He said that as a student leader he fought to strengthen the
company and would do the same as president by reducing political
interference and corruption in its management.  He said  Jose Eduardo Dutra , the president of Lula’s party
and the former chief executive officer of Petrobras, praised the
oil law he designed as President  Fernando Henrique Cardoso ’s
planning minister last decade that allowed private companies to
bid for concessions.  ’’Dilma doesn’t practice what she preaches,’’ Serra said,
adding that Lula’s government sold shares in Banco do Brasil SA
on the New York Stock Exchange.  Serra also vowed to “strengthen” state-run companies,
including lenders Banco do Brasil, Caixa Economica Federal and
BNDES development bank.  Corruption Scandal  Serra, who trailed Rousseff by 24 percentage points in a
Datafolha poll taken Sept. 13-15, was saved from a likely first-
round defeat after media reports of alleged influence peddling
by family members of Erenice Guerra, who succeed Rousseff as
Lula’s cabinet chief.  In last night’s debate Serra accused Rousseff of turning a
blind eye to her former aide’s alleged abuse. Guerra resigned
Sept. 16 to fight accusations that her sons helped negotiate
contracts for companies doing business with the government.
Rousseff said she supports a police investigation into the
matter.  “Your right-hand during seven years and three months
organized a big corruption scheme and you didn’t have anything
to do with it,” he said. “You were unaware of it all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  