-- British Airways Staff Cuts Should Be Blocked, Cabin-Crew Union Tells Court
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-10-11T13:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/british-airways-staff-cuts-should-be-blocked-cabin-crew-union-tells-court.html
British Airways Plc ’s cabin crew
union told a  London court  the carrier breached contracts when it
cut staffing levels last year without its prior approval.  Unite, which represents 12,000 British Airways flight
attendants, claims that a judge in a lower court erred by
refusing to block the cuts.  Justice Christopher Holland, the lower-court judge in the
case, only considered what was “reasonable” to the airline,
and not the employees, John Hendy, Unite’s lawyer, told the
court today.  Today’s case is the latest in a series of legal fights
between British Airways and Unite. Flight attendants took part
in 22 days of walkouts between March and June as part of their
clash over staffing levels and pay. The carrier has sued Unite
over its decision to call strikes, while Unite is opposing the
airline’s decision to remove travel benefits from striking
employees.  “The employees would not and did not consider it
reasonable to unilaterally impose changes to collectively agreed
terms when the changes were adverse to them,” Hendy said in
court documents.  British Airways ’ lawyer Bruce Carr said in court documents
that the judge was right not to allow a court order because, if
he did, any change in staff numbers caused by illness, delays or
emergencies could lead to the airline being dragged back into
court.  “BA would return to court every time it sought to change
its crewing levels and the Union decided to be
characteristically obstructive,” Carr said. The carrier said in
an e-mailed statement it will defend its position
“vigorously.”  The case is A2/2010/0578(Y) Malone & ors -v- British
Airways Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at  