-- `Catastrophic' Foreclosure Halt Meets Wall Street, White House Opposition
-- B y   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-11T16:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/brown-sees-no-profit-impact-on-banks-reviewing-foreclosures.html
Calls for a total freeze on U.S.
 foreclosures  ran into opposition from Wall Street and the White
House amid predictions that clearing up faulty paperwork and
resuming evictions may take as little as two weeks.  A complete halt would be “catastrophic” for the U.S.
 economy  and hurt home sales, said a statement today from
President  Tim Ryan  at the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association, Wall Street’s biggest lobby. A day earlier,
 David Axelrod , a senior adviser to President  Barack Obama , also
said a moratorium would damage the housing market.  Bank of America Corp.  halted foreclosures in all 50 states
last week, while lenders including  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Ally
Financial Inc. have stopped evictions in 23 states where courts
supervise home seizures. They’re checking allegations that
employees used unverified or false data to speed the process.
Lawmakers, attorneys general and community groups have called
for banks to follow Bank of America’s example.  “It would be catastrophic to impose a system-wide
moratorium on all foreclosures and such actions could do damage
to the  housing market  and the economy,” said New York-based
SIFMA. “The mortgage market, investors and the health of the
economy are all inter-related.”  SIFMA, which represents Wall Street securities firms, banks
and asset managers, said a moratorium would “unjustly” create
losses for housing market investors, including workers with
pensions, retirement accounts or mutual funds, and “further
constrain consumer credit and spending” because of uncertainty
in the securitization market.  Length of Delay  Brian T. Moynihan , chief executive officer at Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, has said the bank wants to
check its work, which could take a few weeks. The halt by U.S.
lenders to review documents is just a “processing issue” and
won’t affect bank profits, according to  Thomas Brown , chief
executive officer of Second Curve Capital LLC. His New York-
based investment firm specializes in financial companies.  Brown said he met with JPMorgan officials last week and
learned the company expects to clear up its foreclosure review
in “a couple weeks,” adding that the process for the entire
industry could take as long as 30 days.  “People on average have not been paying for a year and a
half and that’s not in dispute,” Brown told  Tom Keene  and  Ken Prewitt  on “Bloomberg Surveillance” this morning. “A third of
these homes that are in foreclosure are completely empty, so
people have already left or they never actually owned them
because they were investors.”  State Probes  Among other lenders who have postponed action, Litton Loan
Servicing LP, a mortgage-servicing business owned by Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., said late last week it’s halting some
foreclosures to review how they’re handled, and PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. halted sales of foreclosed homes for a month
to review documents, according to an Oct. 4 memo.  Attorneys general in about 40 states are planning a joint
investigation into potentially faulty foreclosures at the
largest banks and mortgage firms, Bloomberg News reported last
week, citing a person with direct knowledge of the matter. The
investigation may center on claims that employees at home
lenders and loan servicers signed court documents without
ensuring the information was accurate.  Axelrod said on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program that there
are valid foreclosures that ought to proceed, and the White
House is urging the industry to get the situation “unwound very,
very quickly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nishad Majmudar  in New York at 
 nmajmudar@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at   tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 