-- Bubble Warning as Lowest Yields Spur Rally for Bank Tinkoff: Russia Credit
-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2010-10-12T08:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/bubble-warning-as-lowest-yields-spur-rally-for-bank-tinkoff-russia-credit.html
The biggest surge in ruble bond
sales is sparking government warnings of a “bubble” as record-
low yields drive investors to seek higher returns.  The combination of a 12 percent increase in Russian
corporate debt sales from last year and gains in the  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Russian corporate bonds  index that sent yields down
160 basis points in 2010 to a record low 5.35 percent is feeding
concerns the market may reverse. Notes selling like “hot
cakes” signal “investors aren’t being as vigilant with the
quality of the company,” Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin 
told reporters in Washington on Oct. 8.  The strength of the bond market is creating a “danger that
bubbles will form again” after the global credit crisis, Pankin
said, echoing warnings last week from Brazilian central bank
President  Henrique Meirelles  and Nobel Prize-winning economist
 Joseph Stiglitz  that emerging-market asset prices may be rising
too far.  “In many ways bonds worldwide are overheated,”  Elena Kolchina , the head of fixed income products at Renaissance Asset
Managers in Moscow, which has $1.5 billion in assets under
management, said by e-mail on Oct. 8. “In markets like this
investors should indeed be very careful and better analyze what
they buy and at what price.”  The  lowest-ever return  on two-year and five-year U.S.
Treasuries and investor demand for higher-yielding emerging-
market assets have helped spur $538 billion of bond sales so far
this year by developing nations, a record for the period and up
5 percent from the same time in 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The yield paid by emerging-market borrowers fell
to 5.3 percent yesterday, the lowest for the  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. EMBI+ Index .  Yield Spread  The extra yield demanded to hold Russian debt rather than
U.S. Treasuries fell by five basis points to 219 today,
according to JPMorgan indexes. Russia is rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade ranking.
The yield spread for similar-rated Mexican bonds is 155, and the
difference is 196 for Brazil, whose debt is rated two steps
lower at Baa3 by Moody’s. The  spread  on Russian securities is 49
basis points less than the average for emerging markets, down
from a 15-month high of 105 in February, according to JPMorgan
indexes.  Rising Sales  Russian company debt sales surged 12 percent this year from
the same period in 2009 to 580 billion rubles ($19 billion) as
of Oct. 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tinkoff
Credit Systems , a Moscow-based lender rated six levels below
investment grade, offered a 20 percent annual interest rate on
1.4 billion rubles of three-year bonds in July. The yield fell
to 16 percent from a peak of 21.97 percent on Aug. 2, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The bond’s rise in secondary trading is obviously a
result of investors looking for more profitable paper” as well
as the consumer bank’s “convincing business model,” Oleg
Anisimov, Tinkoff’s marketing vice-president, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. The bank offered a higher
interest rate because currently smaller private companies and
banks rarely sell securities with a three-year maturity and no
put option, he said. A put option gives the bondholder the right
to sell the security back to the issuer.  Tinkoff  Tinkoff, which is rated B3 by Moody’s, six steps below
investment grade, sold 1.6 billion rubles of three-year notes on
Sept. 24. The yield dropped to 15.4 percent today from 16.8
percent on Sept. 30. The company may sell more ruble debt by the
end of the year depending on the market, Anisimov said.  UTair Aviation , Russia’s fifth-largest airline, sold 1.5
billion rubles of bonds of three-year securities on March 30.
The yield declined to 11.5 percent from 12.5 percent since
March. The debt isn’t rated by Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s or
Fitch Ratings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yury
Mushikhin, the airline’s spokesman in Tyumen, Russia, didn’t
answer his mobile telephone or respond to messages seeking
comment on Oct. 11.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.292 percent
yesterday, the lowest level since they were sold in April. A
decline in the country’s ruble notes due August 2016 increased
the yield three basis points to 7.19 percent. The yield on
Moscow-based OAO Gazprom’s ruble bonds due in June 2014 has
widened 15 basis points to 7.01 percent since the start of
September and is down 204 basis points this year.  ‘Changing’ Situation  “I would not say there is a bubble, but the situation is
definitely changing,”  Pavel Sokolov , co-head of debt capital
markets at Moscow-based Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest
investment bank. “Now that yields have fallen so far for top
borrowers and investors are trying to find something more
attractive, they are going to have to accept heightened risk.”
It was “impossible” for companies rated B or lower to issue
debt a year ago, he said.  The ruble weakened 0.6 percent to 30.0650 per dollar by
11:20 a.m. in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest rate differentials and allow companies to hedge against
currency movements, show the ruble at 30.2725 per dollar in
three months.  In the two years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in September 2008 cut access to global funding,
Russian companies defaulted on 260 billion rubles of debt,
according to data compiled by Trust Investment Bank in Moscow.
Bank Rossii, the nation’s central bank, has lowered borrowing
costs 14 times since April 2009 to help spur economic recovery
and shore up corporate balance sheets in Russia, the world’s
largest energy supplier. The refinance rate is now at 7.75
percent.  Default  International Industrial Bank, the lender controlled by
lawmaker  Sergei Pugachyov , defaulted on 200 million euros ($274
million) of bonds in July in the first major Russian bank
default since the 1998 debt crisis. The bank was rated B1 by
Moody’s, four levels below investment grade, before the default.
Bank Rossii revoked the lender’s license last week.  Any Russian company with no credit rating “is potentially
a suicide note,” said  Eric Kraus , the head of strategy at
Otkritie Financial Corp. in Moscow, said in an interview on Oct.
8. “There is no procedure for orderly workouts, creditors’
committees, etc. In a bankruptcy, favored creditors will get
anything of value with the bondholders left for last.”  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was little changed at 141
yesterday, down from this year’s peak of 217 on May 7, according
to data provider CMA. The contracts, which decline as the
perception of creditworthiness improves, traded at a record low
of 37 in June 2007 before the credit crisis.  Default swaps for Russia cost 0.7 basis point less than
contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at Ba2.
Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis points less on April 20.
The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “Credit-default swap levels are still wider than pre-
crisis so should the U.S Treasury yields and oil prices remain
supportive, this bond rally might continue for some time,”
 Marina Vlasenko , a credit analyst at Commerzbank AG in London,
said by e-mail on Oct. 8.  -- With assistance from  Paul Abelsky  in Washington,  Jason Webb 
in London and  Ekaterina Shatalova  in Moscow. Editors:  Alex Nicholson ,  Stephen Kirkland .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  