-- HTC to Unveil 5 Windows Phones in Support of Microsoft Comeback
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   B r u c e   E i n h o r n
-- 2010-10-11T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/htc-to-unveil-5-windows-phones-in-support-of-microsoft-comeback.html
HTC Corp.  will introduce five
handsets using  Microsoft Corp. ’s new Windows Phone 7 operating
system, signaling its support for a platform that’s lost ground
to  Google Inc. ’s Android.  HTC’s sales of Android phones overtook those using Windows
among its own shipments in the first quarter, Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Chou  said in an interview at the company’s
Taoyuan, Taiwan headquarters Oct. 8. HTC is the world’s largest
maker of phones using either platforms.  Microsoft’s Windows Phone 7, released today, marks the
latest attempt by the world’s largest software maker to claw
back share of the mobile operating system market from Android.
Google-based models helped HTC post record sales in the past two
quarters, spurring a doubling in the Taiwan company’s  share
price  this year.  “Microsoft can come back,” said Chou, whose company  in
2002  became the first to release a smartphone using Microsoft’s
mobile platform, and was the first with an Android handset in
2008. “Microsoft has a lot of value, so the industry should
definitely not underestimate them.”  Android had a 32 percent share of the U.S. market for
smartphones bought in the past six months, surpassing Apple
Inc.’s iPhone and  Research In Motion Ltd. ’s Blackberry
platforms, according to August data from Nielsen Co. released
 Oct. 5 . Microsoft’s Windows Mobile, the precursor to Windows
Phone 7, ranked outside the top three among sales of
smartphones, handsets that can connect to the Internet and play
music and videos.  HTC7 Globally  HTC’s Windows Phone 7 models will each carry the prefix
HTC7 and include handsets with a slide-up speaker, surround
sound, and high-definition display, Chou said. The devices will
be available globally.  Samsung Electronics Co. and  LG Electronics Inc ., Korea’s
two largest smartphone makers, are among companies worldwide
that will sell new models using Windows Phone 7. LG Electronics
will offer one model globally, and a further handset
specifically for  AT&T Inc.,  it said in a statement today.  “Although the market remains doubtful about the WP7’s
success, one should not ignore Microsoft’s substantial operating
system and user interface reshuffle and its heavy marketing
campaign in coming months,”  Daniel Chang , who rates HTC
“outperform” at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Taipei wrote in an
Oct. 6 report. “HTC’s leadership in this space could become an
advantage if the WP7 grabs the market’s attention.”  Record Sales  HTC posted NT$76 billion ($2.5 billion) in  revenue  for the
third quarter, its second consecutive period of record sales.
Shipments this year until the end of September have already
surpassed the 11.7 million units the company sold in 2009, with
growth to remain strong this quarter, Chou told reporters
Oct. 7.  HTC shares closed 0.4 percent higher today in Taipei at
NT$715. The 105 percent gain in the stock this year compares
with the 0.1 percent loss in the benchmark  Taiex  index.  Microsoft’s new phone platform includes features from its
Xbox 360 game system, Zune video players and Office suite of
software, rivaling offerings from Android-based handsets and
Apple’s iPhone.  “Microsoft has put a lot of effort to get Xbox mobile and
Zune and these additional features put in to make this platform
attractive,” Chou said. “The market will welcome this
platform, however, because the other platform is pretty strong
in the market I think it will take some time to gain market
share.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .
 Bruce Einhorn  in Hong Kong at 
 beinhorn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 