-- Cairn Energy Says Delay in Vedanta Deal May Deter Oil Exploration in India
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-10-12T00:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/cairn-energy-says-delay-in-vedanta-deal-may-deter-oil-exploration-in-india.html
India’s next auction of oil rights
may draw fewer international bids should the government delay
 Cairn Energy Plc ’s plan to sell a stake in its local unit to
Vedanta Resources Plc, the U.K.-based company said.  “Oil companies have the opportunity to invest anywhere in
the world,”  Bill Gammell , chief executive officer of Cairn
Energy, told reporters in Mumbai yesterday. “In so far as there
are delays, it doesn’t help India.”  India plans to offer 34 oil and gas fields in the nation’s
ninth round of auctions starting Oct. 15, Oil Minister  Murli Deora  said last week. In last year’s round, the government
received bids for just 36 of the 70 blocks on offer because of
disputes over production-sharing contracts and the global
recession, V.K. Sibal, former head of the country’s oil
regulator, said on Oct. 12 last year.  “The issues are many, and Cairn-Vedanta is another issue
that’s cropped up,” said  Praveen Kumar , head of the south Asia
oil and gas team at FACTS Global Energy, a Singapore-based
consultant. This adds to concern that there’s regulatory
uncertainty in gas taxation, a lack of new areas being offered
and incomplete data on the blocks, he said.  Cairn Energy hopes to complete the stake sale in Cairn
India Ltd., which operates the country’s largest onshore
oilfield, to Vedanta this year, Gammell said. Cairn Energy and
Vedanta are awaiting approval from the government and the market
regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India for the deal,
he said.  Anil Agarwal  London-listed Vedanta has arranged overseas loans from a
group of banks for the $6.5 billion of debt that will be used to
finance the deal, billionaire Chairman  Anil Agarwal  said
yesterday.  Vedanta, which mines copper and zinc and smelts aluminum,
said on Aug. 16 it aims to buy as much as 60 percent of Cairn
India Ltd. for $9.6 billion. The Indian government will decide
on the deal in a “few weeks,” Oil Secretary  S. Sundareshan ,
the top bureaucrat in the ministry, said on Oct. 6.  A unit of Vedanta,  Sesa Goa Ltd. , has deferred an offer
for Cairn India shares pending approval from the stock market
regulator, Managing Director  P.K. Mukherjee  said, without
elaborating. It was due to make an open offer yesterday. The
regulator takes 45 to 60 days to approve open offers, according
to Agarwal.  Cairn India  closed up 2.4 percent at 344.6 rupees in Mumbai
trading and  Sesa Goa  gained 2 percent. The benchmark  Sensitive
Index  of the Bombay stock Exchange advanced 0.4 percent.  Sesa Goa Offer  Sesa Goa has offered 355 rupees a share to Cairn India’s
minority shareholders for a stake of as much as 20 percent,
according to a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange on Aug. 18.
Separately, Vedanta Resources has offered Cairn Energy 405
rupees ($9.12) a share for a stake of up to 51 percent,
including a non-compete fee of 50 rupees a share. Cairn Energy
plans to retain a 20 percent stake in Cairn India, Gammell said.  The final number of shares sold by Cairn Energy will depend
on the results of the open offer, which could take Vedanta’s
stake to as high as 60 percent.  Cairn Energy plans to return a “very significant” portion
of the proceeds, probably in the “billions of dollars,” back
to its shareholders, Gammell said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net ;
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  