-- California Tax Revenue for September Beats Schwarzenegger Estimate by 15%
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-10-11T23:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/california-tax-revenue-for-september-beats-schwarzenegger-estimate-by-15-.html
California ’s tax revenue for
September came in 15 percent above Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger’s  May estimate, according to Controller  John Chiang .  About $1.1 billion in additional receipts included $732.9
million in personal income tax, 22 percent above projections;
$378.7 million in corporate taxes, up 46 percent, and $60
million in sales tax, up 2.9 percent, Chiang said today.  The nation’s largest state by population closed a $19.1
billion deficit last week in part by relying on revenue
assumptions that were $1.4 billion higher than the May
estimates. The agreement came 100 days after the start of the
fiscal year, the longest period ever in which the state operated
without a budget.  The increase in personal-income tax “is likely the result
of accelerated revenues due to recent changes to the tax
deadlines, rather than a sign of significant upturn in the
economy,” Chiang said in a statement.  The legislature passed a law last week allowing California
to defer $5.5 billion in payments for schools, child-care
programs, pensions and student loans, according to Garin
Casaleggio, a spokesman for the controller. That will allow the
state to begin paying off previous debts without having to issue
IOUs to vendors.  That could change if tax revenue disappoints in October and
November, Casaleggio said.  “The controller is saying IOUs are not warranted at this
time,” he said.  California Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  is proceeding with plans
to borrow $5 billion in a bridge loan from Wall Street banks in
early November, according to spokesman  Joe DeAnda . That will be
followed by the sale of $10 billion in notes that must mature
within the fiscal year, by June 30, he said. The notes will help
the state meet its current cash needs and repay $8.3 billion
withheld from local governments, community clinics and state
vendors as result of the late budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pete Young at 
 pyoung13@bloomberg.net  