-- Calpers Cuts Ties With Pacific Corporate Group in Overhaul of Pension Fund
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2010-10-11T19:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/calpers-cuts-ties-with-pacific-corporate-group-in-overhaul-of-investments.html
The California Public Employees’
Retirement System, the biggest U.S. public pension fund, said
it’s severing ties with Pacific Corporate Group as it revamps
its private-equity program.  Pacific Corporate Group will no longer help manage two
emerging-markets funds with more than $1 billion combined or run
the pension system’s Clean Energy & Technology Fund, Sacramento-
based Calpers said today in an e-mailed statement.  Chief Investment Officer  Joseph Dear  is overhauling
Calpers’s private-equity strategy after the system was caught up
in the scandal involving payments to placement agents, third
parties who help money managers find business.  “This new relationship and the repositioning of the assets
with the new independent teams is part of the systematic
restructuring of our  private-equity program  to reposition our
assets and focus on improved performance, accountability and
transparency with our partners,” Dear said in the statement.  Aviva Capital, part of a joint venture with Pacific
Corporate Group for the emerging-markets funds, will continue
working with Calpers, according to the statement. Capital
Dynamics, based in Zug, Switzerland, will take over management
of the clean-energy fund.  Pacific Corporate Group, based in La Jolla, California, was
the first pension-fund adviser to settle with New York Attorney
General  Andrew Cuomo  as part of his investigation of “pay to
play” claims involving that state, agreeing in 2009 to return
more than $2 million and abide by a new code of conduct.  ‘Successful Opportunity’  “Pacific Corporate Group has had the successful
opportunity to serve Calpers as a fiduciary for over 20 years,”
the firm said today in an e-mailed statement. PCG generated a
net internal rate of return “in excess of 23 percent while
producing over $3 billion in investment gains to enhance the
retirement security of Calpers beneficiaries,” the firm said.  Brad Pacheco , a spokesman for Calpers, declined to comment
beyond the pension system’s statement.  In May, the California attorney general’s office sued
 Alfred Villalobos , a Calpers board member from 1993 to 1995 who
became a placement agent, accusing him of trying to improperly
influence Calpers personnel to favor Apollo Global Management
LLC and other private-equity clients. On Aug. 26,  Leon Shahinian , head of Calpers’ private-equity team, resigned after
the state alleged he accepted a private jet flight, a $200
bottle of champagne and other gifts from Villalobos in May 2007.  Calpers oversees about $216 billion in assets, including
about $28 billion in its alternative-investment management
program. That program returned 31 percent for the 12 months
ended in March 31, Calpers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  