-- Carstens' Reserve Accumulation Comment Signals Mexico Not in Currency War
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d   a n d   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n
-- 2010-10-11T15:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/carstens-reserve-accumulation-comment-signals-mexico-not-in-currency-war.html
Mexican central bank Governor
 Agustin Carstens ’ comments that his country has accumulated more
foreign reserves than policy makers expected signal it won’t
join Brazil and South Korea in a so-called “currency war,”
said  Gabriel Casillas  at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Carstens said in an Oct. 8 interview that strong oil
exports and more debt sales had helped the country build more
reserves than anticipated, and that policy makers will soon
discuss “the speed at which it accumulates reserves” using a
policy to buy as much as $600 million a month through options.  By emphasizing the accumulation of reserves through oil and
debt, Carstens may be suggesting that the bank’s current policy
of buying dollars to boost reserves is as far as it’s willing to
go to intervene in the currency market, Casillas said. Carstens’
statements contrast with Brazil Finance Minister  Guido Mantega ’s
Oct. 8 comments that emerging market countries should couple
reserve accumulation policies with “direct control” of their
currencies to stem the inflow of dollars.  “The downplaying of the options mechanism is a way of
saying that it’s a market-friendly mechanism that isn’t
interfering much with the currency market,” said Casillas, who
is chief economist in Mexico City and who spoke from Washington.
“There’s a global currency war and Mexico doesn’t want to be in
it.”  Currency Controls  The benchmark government peso bond due in 2024 rose for a
sixth day, pushing the yield to a record low 6.26 percent,
according to Banco Santander SA. The yields have plunged 201
basis points this year.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 12.4273 per dollar at 11:49
a.m. New York time. The currency has risen 5.4 percent this year
against the dollar.  Governments from South Korea to Brazil are stepping up
attempts to control their currencies as investors pour a record
amount of money into emerging markets amid the prospect of
easier monetary policy by the Federal Reserve. Developing
economies in the Group of 24 said Oct. 7 that industrial
nations’ low interest rates have left them vulnerable to
exchange rate appreciation and overheating.  Brazil has stepped up intervention in the currency market
in a bid to prevent the real from rallying, while regulators in
South Korea will start an audit of lenders handling foreign-
currency derivatives on Oct. 19 to curb volatility caused by
capital flows. The Bank of Japan has sought to drive down the
yen by unexpectedly easing monetary policy.  Foreign Reserves  Mexico has increased its foreign reserves to $108.4 billion
in the week ended Oct. 1 from $90.8 billion in the week ended
Dec. 31. Only  $3.4 billion  of the new reserves have come from
the options mechanism, while $10.5 billion have come from
revenue from the state oil company, according to the central
bank’s website.  “At this stage we are happy with the rate, with the way
the option mechanism has worked,” Carstens, 52, said in
Washington, where he was attending the annual meeting of the
International Monetary Fund.  “Nevertheless, we have been accumulating more reserves
than what we anticipated based on strong oil exports and higher
debt placements,” he said. “Therefore, in the context of the
currency commission, relatively soon we will need to discuss
this issue.”  The commission in charge of currency auctions in  Latin
America’s second-largest economy  announced in February that it
would buy dollars in a push to boost foreign reserves after last
year’s tumble of the peso led policy makers to turn to the IMF
for a $47 billion credit line. The peso has gained 5.3 percent
against the U.S. dollar this year, the second-best performer in
Latin America after Colombia’s peso.  Long-Held View  Mexico’s central bank sold $600 million in dollar options
in September and received bids for $2.2 billion, according to
its website.  Carstens’ comments on Mexico’s reserves reflect his long-
held view that the country should have a floating exchange rate
and keep intervention to a minimum in order to assure investor
confidence over the long term, Casillas said.  “It’s a country that has a tradition of non-
intervention,” Casillas said.  Regarding China, Carstens said global economic leaders are
“being more outspoken” about the country’s currency policy
because the effects of those decisions are felt more acutely
than before the financial crisis.  China Consequences  “The major difference is that two or three years ago the
world was in a much stronger situation, and therefore there were
more possibilities to administer the pressures coming from
China,” Carstens said. “And therefore, in the margin, the
consequences of China are more severe to the rest of the
world.”  China Premier  Wen Jiabao  said Oct. 7 that China will stick
to its policy of gradually increasing the currency’s flexibility
and lashed out at European Union leaders for teaming with the
U.S. to pressure the Chinese government.  China has capped the yuan’s rise at about 2 percent since
relaxing a dollar peg in June, leading to criticism that it is
stunting the recovery in the industrial world by shielding its
market from U.S. and European imports. China held the yuan at
about 6.83 per dollar two years prior to shield its exporters
from the global crisis.  Carstens, who was IMF deputy managing director from 2003 to
2006, led Mexico’s response to the global financial crisis as
Finance Minister from December 2006 to December 2009. As result
of the recession in the U.S., which buys about 80 percent of
Mexican exports, the economy plummeted 6.5 percent last year,
the biggest drop since 1932. Carstens has a doctorate in
economics from the University of Chicago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Barden  in Washington at 
 barden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  