-- Central Bank May Avoid `Bold' Stimulus Move for Now, CBI's Lambert Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-11T10:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/central-bank-may-avoid-bold-stimulus-move-for-now-cbi-s-lambert-says.html
The Bank of England is likely to
keep its bond plan on hold for the next few months as inflation
prevents officials from adding stimulus, Confederation of
British Industry Director General  Richard Lambert  said.  Third-quarter economic growth numbers will probably be
“okay” and the central bank is likely to increase its
prediction for inflation in its quarterly report in November,
weakening the case for more asset purchases, Lambert said at an
event in London today.  The Bank of England’s next quarterly forecasts “might show
inflation a little higher than it was likely to be in the last
inflation report, which would make it harder for any bold
efforts to loosen monetary policy even further,” Lambert said.
“Were they to do that they would probably want to wait a bit
longer to see what happens over the winter months.”  The Monetary Policy Committee last week left its emergency
bond-purchase plan unchanged at 200 billion pounds ($319
billion). A split has emerged between policy maker  Adam Posen ,
who advocates the need for more purchases to boost slowing
economic growth, and  Andrew Sentance , who argues  interest rates 
should be increased to combat inflation.  “The third-quarter numbers and the future inflation
indicators make it less rather than more likely that we’ll see
any more” stimulus, Lambert said. He was a Bank of England
policy maker between 2003 and 2006 and was editor of the
Financial Times newspaper for 10 years before that.  Britain’s economy expanded at the fastest pace in nine
years in the three months through June. The Office for National
Statistics will release third-quarter gross domestic product
data on Oct. 26 and the central bank will publish its new
inflation and growth forecasts on Nov. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  