-- Post Office Shows Where U.S. Is Headed: Kevin Hassett
-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 2010-10-11T20:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/check-the-mailbox-to-see-where-u-s-is-headed-commentary-by-kevin-hassett.html
(Corrects fourth paragraph to indicate billion.)  To understand where the advocates of
big government will take this country, look at the U.S. Postal
Service.  Start with the fact the Postal Service is a great jobs
machine,  employing  712,000 people at an average annual
compensation, including wages and benefits, of $83,000. And
those hefty pay checks are a great source of political
contributions for Democrats. In 2010, almost 90 percent of the
approximately $4 million contributed to campaigns by postal
unions went to Democrats. Take a guess where much of the
opposition to reform comes from.  But high-priced labor, which accounts each year for about
80 percent of costs, leads to high-priced mail services, and
even higher costs for taxpayers. Over the past 10 years, the
price of a stamp has  risen  from 33 cents to 44 cents, exceeding
the inflation rate at a time when computerization should have
been leading to big cost savings. Even so the Postal Service
lost about $6 billion this year and by its own projections it
will drop a cool $238 billion over the next decade. By 2020, the
last year in the projections, the Postal Service will be losing
$33 billion annually.  If its losses level off and it continues to lose that much
each year, the Postal Service will lose $550 billion from 2010
to 2030. If the growth rate of losses projected over the next
decade continues until 2030, it will lose more than $1 trillion
in that span. The fiscal black hole that the Postal Service has
become is no small potatoes, even in government terms.  Broken Model  In April 2010, the Government Accountability Office
released a  report  that analyzed the operations of the Postal
Service and concluded that, “USPS’s business model is not
viable due to USPS’s inability to reduce costs sufficiently.”  A 2007 GAO  study  looked at the Postal Service’s use of
facilities, and concluded that, “A 2005 contractor assessment
of 651 randomly selected postal facilities revealed that two-
thirds of these facilities were in less than “acceptable”
condition, including 22 percent that were rated “poor.”
Inspection of one facility in Dallas led the inspector to
recommend that the building be immediately evacuated.  The decaying buildings provide a handy visual clue to the
quality of service. Unfortunately, we don’t know how bad the
service is, because the Postal Service collects data on its own
service quality, but it refuses to make the data public. Isn’t
it nice that your tax dollars pay for data that you’re not
allowed to see?  It’s in the Mail  The Postal Service’s ability to lose mail is, of course,
legendary. Here is an example of how bad it has become: last
week the American Postal Workers Union had to  postpone  their
national election of officers because so many of the ballots
were lost in the mail.  The Postal Service is able to survive because U.S. law
protects it with not one but two monopolies. First, it is the
only entity that is allowed to deliver many types of mail. There
are a few exceptions that have allowed  FedEx Corp .,  United
Parcel Service Inc . and bicycle carriers to flourish, but low-
cost, high-volume letters are walled off from competition from
other providers.  Second, the Postal Service actually has a legal monopoly
over your privately owned mailbox. You bought it, but if another
company starts to use it as a receptacle for letters, they are
violating  federal law .  Legal Cover  This organization has withstood political pressure for some
time, in part because Postal Service advocates have argued that
the monopoly is necessary because of the national objective of
providing  universal service . If we want to have everyone on the
postal grid, they say, then the grid will be impossible to
support with private markets.  This argument, of course, is specious. It would be trivial
to fully privatize postal delivery with guaranteed universal
service. We need only write regulations that require firms that
compete for postal business to provide universal service.  The Democrats will never let us do that, of course. The
political might of the public employee unions is just too great.  As with the stimulus, the American left finds itself far to
the left of even the statist Europeans. Countless other nations
have recognized the possible large benefits from privatizing the
postal business. In 2005, Cornell University economist R.
 Richard Geddes   reviewed  the academic literature on postal reform
for the distinguished Journal of Economic Perspectives, and
reported that “comprehensive postal reform has been ongoing in
other countries for decades.” Countries that have introduced
major reforms include Germany and Sweden.  A U.S. Gain  Reforms tended to have, he reported, three characteristics.
First, they would “corporatize” or privatize postal
operations. Second, reforms have tended to reduce delivery
monopolies. And third, regulators have guaranteed the
continuation of universal service.  The possibility for real gain in the U.S. is enormous. The
Postal Service owns or operates 33,000 facilities nationwide,
and owns 219,000 vehicles. If we were to auction it off to
private investors, the bids would likely be enormous. FedEx and
UPS, for example, have a combined market capitalization of
almost $100 billion. Given that, how much might a private bidder
offer for the right to start a business with the Postal
Service’s footprint? The $100 billion mark might be a good first
guess.  Which means we have two paths to chose between. On one, we
continue to operate the Postal Service, and watch it lose
hundreds of billions of dollars. Along the other, we sell it to
a private contractor, avoid those losses while cashing a nice
big check.  If the Tea Party activists want to fix the country, they
should start by privatizing the Postal Service. If we can’t fix
that, then it is hard to imagine how we will ever fix anything.  ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  