-- Chile Makes Final Preparations as Midnight Miner Rescue Nears
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-12T16:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/chile-sets-up-virtual-intensive-care-unit-for-miners-as-rescue-day-nears.html
Chilean rescue workers are making
final preparations for the release of 33 miners trapped more
than 600 meters (1,970 feet) underground for two months.  Officials plan to start the rescue operation after 5 p.m.
New York time, Mining Minister  Laurence Golborne  told reporters
at the site. Rescuers hope to bring at least one of the trapped
miners to the surface today after a drill reached the tunnels
that have been their home since Aug. 5, he said.  “What began as a possible tragedy, we hope -- and thank
God -- seems to be ending as a true blessing,” Chilean
President  Sebastian Pinera  told reporters yesterday in Quito
after meeting his Ecuadorean counterpart.  Rescuers completed practice runs yesterday in which they
rehearsed the extraction and transportation of the miners to a
nearby hospital, Health Minister  Jaime Manalich  said. Medical
workers are focused on ensuring that the miners are prepared to
rise to the surface in a process that could prove physically and
emotionally stressful, he told reporters.  Four rescue workers will travel down the well to assist
from the underground tunnels, remaining until after the last
miner has resurfaced, Manalich said.  The miners will be split into three groups for the rescue.
The first will provide information to rescuers and possibly help
with the operation, the health minister said. The weakest will
then come out, followed by the rest. Golborne today declined to
name the first miner who will be rescued.  Rich in Minerals  The 33 men, who are eating meals rich in minerals and
protein to prevent nausea and stabilize blood pressure during
the ascent, are being examined remotely by medical officials on
the surface. Ten have been identified by authorities as being
the most in need of special care, Manalich said.  They’ll wear elastic bands on their lower extremities and a
waistband during the 15- to 20-minute ascent that will help
ensure proper blood circulation and prevent a reduction in
arterial pressure and possible fainting, the health minister
said. Rescue workers will supply the miners with emergency
oxygen in case dust on the ascent causes breathing problems.  The miners want to wait until all 33 are brought to the
surface so they can travel to the hospital as a group, the
health minister said today. Authorities are instead seeking to
fly miners to hospital as soon as possible so they can undergo
examinations and any necessary treatment, Manalich said.  Longest Mine Rescue  Chilean state-run Codelco,  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and other
mining companies, as well as the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, have assisted in what has become the world’s
longest-ever mine rescue.  “Codelco has been playing a very important role,” Chief
Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez  said in an interview today
from London. “It’s very important for the mining industry and
for the country of course to have a safe rescue.”  The 33 men will face more than 1,000 media
representatives when they reach the surface. Family members
camping out in the Atacama desert have obtained lawyers and
received book and film offers, said Arnoldo Plaza Vega, 46,
whose cousin is among the men trapped inside the mine.  Chile’s  government  gave the men media training, conducting
classes over phone lines threaded through drill holes almost
half a mile underground.  “It’s hard to grasp how strange it is to come out of a
black hole in the ground for weeks or months into this sort of
media frenzy,” said  Jeff Goodell , whose book about nine
Pennsylvania miners trapped for 77 hours was a New York Times
bestseller. “The shock of coming into this media spotlight is
almost bigger than the shock of being trapped underground.”  Europe Invitations  Already, the men have been invited to make appearances in
Spain, England and Greece, and mining entrepreneur Leonardo
Farkas appeared on Chilean television promising each of the
miners 5 million pesos ($10,400). Their net annual wages range
from 3.8 million pesos to 9 million pesos, said Darinka Darce, a
friend of trapped miner Jimmy Sanchez’s family.  The television rights to the miners’ story could be worth
as much as $10,000 upfront and $50,000 to $100,000 at the time
of production, said Scott Manville, founder of TVFilmRights.com,
an online marketplace for buying and selling the rights to real-
life stories. The movie rights could eventually come with a
“purchase price” of $100,000 to $500,000, Manville said in an
e-mailed response to questions.  Some families are in talks for exclusive rights to post-
rescue interviews, Plaza said.  “I’ve heard of some offers for around $20,000 for the
first television interview,” he said.  The miners reached a verbal agreement as a group about what
they will reveal to the public about their experiences and what
will remain private, Plaza said. They plan to legalize the
agreement before a notary, he said.  “They are a unified group,” he said. “They were together
for two months below and they’ll be together afterward. They
will stick together.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nathan Crooks  in Santiago at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  