-- China Agrees to Reopen Market to Argentine Soybean Oil Imports, People Say
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-11T11:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/china-agrees-to-reopen-market-to-argentine-soybean-oil-imports-people-say.html
China will allow the two largest
state-owned grains and oilseeds trading companies to import
soybean oil from Argentina, easing restrictions imposed in
April, said two traders with direct knowledge of the matter.  Beijing-based Cofco Ltd., China’s biggest grain trader,
and  China Grain Reserves Corp.  have been cleared by the
commerce ministry to import soybean oil from Argentina, said
the traders, who declined to be identified as they are not
permitted to speak to the media.  China halted shipments from Argentina, the largest
supplier, in April because of trade disputes ranging from
textiles to kitchen products. The move to ease restrictions
follows an improvement in relations between the two countries,
with Beijing in July agreeing to work on rail projects worth at
least $12 billion in Argentina.  “China and Argentina seem to have improved relations
recently and the two countries want to put the soybean oil row
behind them to form a more extensive trading partnership in
areas including energy and railroads,” Li Qiang, managing
director at Shanghai JC Intelligence Co., said by phone today.  China’s commerce ministry told a closed-door conference of
traders on Oct. 9 that shipments from Argentina will be allowed
to clear customs even if they fail to meet a limit on solvent
residues in soybean oil, the traders said. Solvents are applied
to crushed beans to extract more oil.  Seeking Cargoes  Cofco and Sinograin have been inquiring about purchasing
Argentine soybean cargoes at traders, the two executives said.
Argentine imports are 150 yuan to 200 yuan ($30) per metric ton
more expensive than local prices, the executives said.  A call to Cofco was not immediately answered. Calls each
to the commerce ministry and Sinograin, which stockpiles grains
and oilseeds on behalf of the government, were also not
answered. Mariano Alvarez, a spokesman at the Argentina embassy
in Beijing, did not immediately return calls to his mobile
phone.  China will soon lift restrictions on imports of soybean
oil from Argentina as the nations seek a closer relationship,
Ambassador to China Cesar Mayoral said in August.  The Asian nation bought record amount of soybeans in the
first eight months of this year at 35.53 million tons, up 20
percent from a year earlier, according to customs.  Soybean oil has gained 26 percent in the past year on the
Dalian Commodity Exchange and jumped 4 percent to 8,916 yuan a
ton today.  -- Feiwen Rong . With assistance from William Bi in Beijing.
Editors: Richard Dobson, Ravil Shirodkar.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  