-- China to Add Emerging-Market Currencies to Reserves
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2010-10-11T16:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/china-seeks-to-add-emerging-market-currencies-to-foreign-exchange-reserves.html
China is moving to add more
emerging-market currencies to its foreign-exchange reserves, a
strategy central banks around the world are following to
diversify their $8.7 trillion in  holdings .  “We can diversify more the foreign reserves, to consider
not only smaller countries, but some emerging-market
economies,” central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said at an
event during a meeting of the International Monetary Fund in
Washington yesterday. With increased assets, “you can shift
some to riskier, but higher-return investment instruments,”
said Zhou.  China almost tripled its holdings of South Korean
government bonds to 5.15 trillion won ($4.6 billion) in the
first nine months of this year, according to South Korea’s
Financial Supervisory Service. Peruvian central bank President
 Julio Velarde  said in an interview in August he is “surprised”
to see several monetary authorities buying government bonds
denominated in the sol.  The desire among policy makers to diversify into developing
nations’ currencies comes as the U.S. economy is hobbled by job
losses and Europe faces widening budget deficits. The IMF
forecast this month that developing nations will expand 6.4
percent next year, outstripping growth of 2.2 percent among
advanced economies.  Greater Volatility  “The Chinese authorities are some of the smartest in the
world,”  Kenneth Akintewe , a Singapore-based investment manager
at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc that oversees $261 billion
globally, said in an interview on Oct. 11. “If you look at the
fundamentals of a lot of these emerging markets, they are
considerably better than developed markets. Who wants to be
holding U.S. dollars at this stage?”  Emerging-market currencies have rallied in the past month,
with the Hungarian forint gaining 13.6 percent, India’s rupee
rising 4.7 percent, Brazil’s real 3.5 percent and China’s yuan
1.5 percent.  The move may add more “volatility” to emerging-market
currencies as developing nations from Brazil to South Korea
attempt to slow capital inflows and stem their currency
appreciation, according to  Arminio Fraga , Brazil’s former
central bank president.  “It seems to be a natural evolution,” Fraga, now chairman
of BM&F Bovespa SA in Sao Paulo, which owns Brazil’s securities
exchange, said in an interview. “There has been an increase in
the importance and quality of investment opportunities in
emerging countries and I believe the central banks see that
too.”  International Reserves  China’s international reserves, the world’s largest,
increased 15 percent over the past year to almost $2.5 trillion
as of June as the central bank bought the dollar to keep the
yuan from appreciating. China is the biggest holder of U.S.
Treasuries, with $846.7 billion in August. It started a
sovereign wealth fund,  China Investment Corp ., in September 2007
to help diversify the reserves to generate better returns.  Mexico is seeing “very active” interest from Chinese
investors in the country’s local-currency government bonds,
 Octavio Lara , deputy general director of debt issuance at
Mexico’s Ministry of Finance, said Sept. 15.  In the 1990s, developing nations were beset by currency
crises. Mexico devalued its currency in 1994, sending the peso
down 55 percent in a year. During the Asian financial crisis in
1997 and 1998, South Koreans lined up to donate jewelry to help
the central bank build dollar reserves and stem a flight of
capital.  Leading Gainers  Now, emerging-market currencies are leading gainers after
developing nations cut foreign debt to 26 percent of gross
domestic product last year from 41 percent in 1999, IMF data
show. The Brazilian real appreciated 61 percent since January
2005, Colombia’s peso climbed 31 percent and Thailand’s baht
rose 30 percent. Those gains compare with an advance of 3.5
percent in the euro.  Global foreign reserves have more doubled from $4 trillion
at the end of 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
the IMF. Developing nations held $5.5 trillion as of June.  Diversification is in line with the “multi-polar”
development of the global economy, said China’s Zhou. As foreign
reserves grow, “you don’t need to keep a large” share in
“very liquid assets,” he said.  Currencies other than the dollar, the euro, the pound, the
yen and the Swiss franc jumped to 3.8 percent of global foreign
reserves as of June, the most since the IMF started to compile
such data in 1999.  Dollar’s Share  The dollar’s share has declined to 62 percent in June, from
73 percent in 2001, according to data compiled by the IMF. The
share of euro, the world’s second-largest reserve currency, fell
to 26.5 percent in June this year, from a record 28 percent in
September 2009, as Greece received a $110 billion euro ($153
billion) bailout to finance its budget deficit that is
equivalent to almost 14 percent the size of its economy.  “Reserve currencies have to be a good store of value, good
medium of exchange, in great demand, in great supply, etc.,”
Philippine central bank Deputy Governor  Diwa Guinigundo  said in
an interview. “The Chinese yuan and Russia’s ruble are strong
currencies, and it will just be a matter of time before they
qualify as reserve currencies.”  China is also moving to promote the yuan’s role in
international trade and financial markets. The central bank said
last month it will allow more regions and companies to settle
cross-border trade in the nation’s currency and boost offshore
usage of the yuan. Bank of Thailand Assistant Governor  Suchada Kirakul  said the bank plans to buy yuan-denominated bond.  “What we will see is probably a future with more and more
currencies within the reserves,” said Peruvian central bank
President Velarde. “Diversification makes all the sense.”  There will be as many as 40 currencies in central banks’
foreign reserves in the next two decades, according to Velarde.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net 
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 