-- China Needs to Move Slowly on Yuan Revaluation: Michael Pettis
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P e t t i s
-- 2010-10-11T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/china-must-move-slowly-on-yuan-s-revaluation-commentary-by-michael-pettis.html
The world must be patient with
China. For years, the nation of 1.3 billion has dragged its feet
on rebalancing its economy, raising anger around the globe.  But the process was never going to be easy, and officials
in Beijing were no more eager than other governments to make
hard decisions when times were good. Now that times are bad,
cooperation and forbearance are more necessary than ever. China
simply can’t adjust fast enough to suit its trading partners.  Last week, Premier  Wen Jiabao  warned the world to stop
pressuring China on the yuan. A rapid rise in the value of the
currency, he said, was unacceptable because it could lead to
massive unemployment and social instability.  “Europe shouldn’t join the choir to press China to allow
more yuan appreciation,” Wen said in a speech at a meeting of
business leaders in Brussels. “The euro had a big fluctuation
recently. It’s not because of yuan but the dollars. We shouldn’t
be blamed for it; if there’s someone to be questioned, it should
be the U.S.”  Wen’s concern should have come as no surprise. Chinese
economic growth is vulnerable to changes in the current-account
surplus. A rapid strengthening of the yuan could easily cause a
slowdown by throwing exporters into turmoil.  Some analysts dispute this claim, arguing that because the
trade surplus has accounted for less than 15 percent of China’s
growth in the past decade, China can’t be considered trade-
dependent. Few policy makers in Beijing would agree.  Brutal Experience  And they are right not to agree. The rapid contraction in
China’s trade surplus in 2008 was a brutal experience. Although
official  gross-domestic-product  figures understate the impact,
private-sector estimates suggest GDP growth dropped from more
than 10 percent in the first quarter of 2008 to close to zero a
year later, before rebounding to more than 10 percent again in
the first quarter of 2010.  This is an extraordinary amount of volatility, even for a
developing country. Clearly the collapse in international trade
had a big impact on Chinese growth. What’s more, in order for
growth to rebound so sharply, Beijing had to engineer one of the
biggest investment sprees in history.  Credit in 2009 was forced to grow by almost one-third of
China’s GDP, most of which went to fuel spending in real-estate
development, manufacturing and infrastructure. An unprecedented
surge in investment, in other words, was needed to counter the
effect of a contraction in the trade surplus.  Low Consumption  Given that China entered the crisis with perhaps the
highest investment level ever recorded, it’s not hard to see why
Wen is concerned. With household consumption at an astonishingly
low 36 percent of GDP, a rising trade surplus and expanding
investment are the main sources of China’s growth. But China is
so over-reliant on investment that many say, correctly, that it
already invests far too much for its level of development.  The most sustainable way of rebalancing is to engineer an
increase in household consumption. Rather than lag GDP growth by
two or three percentage points, as it has for the past decade,
household consumption must grow faster than GDP by at least
three to four percentage points for the next several years for
China to achieve any meaningful rebalancing of its economy.  But raising consumption has proven difficult. China depends
on constraining consumption to boost manufacturing, and it will
prove impossible to increase consumption at anywhere near an
acceptable rate without restraining growth dramatically or
restructuring its economy. It would require that China reverse a
series of transfers from households toward investment and
manufacturing, whose growth would slow without such a move.  Slow and Steady  So China is in a tough position. It must revalue the
currency to increase the real value of household income relative
to GDP (by reducing the price of imports). This would boost
household consumption at the expense of exports. If it revalues
slowly, the rebalancing can occur smoothly -- Chinese
manufacturers would gain domestic clients as quickly as they
lose foreign ones -- and unemployment would be limited.  But if China revalues too quickly, the rebalancing will be
more brutal. Exporters would be forced into bankruptcy or into
moving abroad, and as Chinese workers lose their jobs, aggregate
household income, and with it consumption, would decline.  In that case, Chinese manufacturers would lose customers
both abroad, because of the rising yuan, and at home, because of
fired workers. China’s rebalancing would then occur in the form
of weak consumption matched by even slower growth in production.  There’s the rub. If a too-rapid rise in the yuan causes a
rapid contraction in China’s trade surplus, China must either
permit a big decline in GDP growth, or it must boost investment
even further, running the risk that a larger share than ever is
misallocated and wasted.  Ideally, China should spend the next eight to 10 years
slowly raising the value of the yuan while boosting wages and
interest rates, and limiting credit growth. It can’t do any of
these things too quickly without undermining growth and causing
unemployment to surge.  The rest of the world just has to be patient.  ( Michael Pettis  is a finance professor at Peking University
and a managing director at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. in
Hong Kong. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Michael Pettis at  michael@pettis.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  