-- Consumer Stocks are Attractive as Chinese Incomes Rise, Global X CEO Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-11T02:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/china-s-consumer-equities-are-attractive-as-incomes-surge-global-x-says.html
China’s consumer discretionary
stocks are becoming more attractive as incomes rise and the
economy relies more on domestic spending, according to New York-
based asset manager Global X Management Company LLC.  Rising Chinese interest rates won’t be a deterrent because
consumption growth is based more on higher incomes than on
credit, Bruno del Ama, chief executive officer of Global X, said
in e-mailed comments yesterday.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  surged 3.1 percent on Oct.
8, the most since May 24, after the yuan strengthened and
Moody’s Investors Service said it may upgrade the nation from
its fifth-highest ranking of A1 within three months. The gains
were led by commodity and consumer stocks after Xinhua News
reported retail and catering sales jumped 19 percent during the
National Day holiday from Oct. 1 until Oct. 7.  “A stronger yuan will make Chinese exports a little less
competitive, further highlighting the importance of the
development of a local consumer base,” said  del Ama , whose
 China consumer exchange-traded fund  has gained 24 percent this
year, beating 93 percent of rivals, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  He expects increased demand for goods as the nation’s per-
capita income jumps.  ‘Discretionary Items’  “We are seeing consumer growth strength across the board,
especially in consumer discretionary items as millions of
Chinese move into the $5,000 to $6,000 salary base, which is
when consumers typically start moving from pure staple-type
consumption to discretionary items,” del Ama said. “Areas
where we anticipate significant growth include private
education, autos and luxury goods.”  A possible upgrade of China’s debt rating by Moody’s
Investors Service would be “well deserved” given the nation’s
rebound since the global financial crisis, according to Evelyn
X. Hu, vice president of Global X.  “China’s resilience from the global financial crisis is
further evidence of the growing shift in reliance away from
exports and towards organic, local growth,” she said.  Chinese investors already view domestic bonds as “risk-
free” products, said Hu.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  