-- China Cancels Meeting With Norwegian Fishery Minister After Nobel for Liu
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 2010-10-11T11:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/china-cancels-meeting-with-norwegian-fishery-minister-after-nobel-for-liu.html
Chinese authorities canceled a
meeting with Norway’s Fisheries and Coastal Affairs Minister
 Lisbeth Berg-Hansen , who is in Shanghai to promote the Nordic
country’s seafood export to the world’s most populous country.  “The meeting has been canceled,” said Magnus Hodne, a
spokesman at the  Norwegian ministry , declining to give a reason.
The ministers’ second meeting later this week is still scheduled
to take place, he said. The Chinese Embassy in Oslo was not
immediately available for a comment.  Norway’s government on Friday congratulated jailed Chinese
dissident  Liu Xiaobo  on winning this year’s Nobel Peace Prize,
awarded by the Oslo-based Nobel Committee, as China warned
relations may suffer. Norway targets increasing sales of salmon
to China and Hong Kong by 62 percent to 30,000 tons in 2012,
according to a report by the Norwegian Seafood Export Council
from February.  “This year we expect that less than five percent of our
volumes are going to China, so this is more about future
potential then about the current market situation,” said
 Joergen Christiansen , a spokesman at  Marine Harvest ASA , the
world’s largest salmon farmer. “In terms of what happened last
week, we’re not at this time concerned about this.”  Norway sold about 18,500 tons in salmon to China and Hong
Kong in 2008, according to the export council. Total seafood
exports to China have risen 50 percent to about 1.5 billion
kroner ($260 million) through September, making it the eighth-
largest market. France is first with 3.6 billion kroner.  “There have been no comments, no phone calls, no worries
from Chinese counterparts in terms of the trade of seafood,”
Egil Ove Sundheim, market information director at the council,
said by phone. “We have tried to build up a market the past 12-
15 years with Chinese importers, and that relationship has gone
through whatever political climate there has been.”  Berg-Hansen was scheduled to meet with Niu Dun, vice
minister at the Agriculture Ministry, according to Hodne.  Any potential effect on the country’s main export, crude
oil, may also be limited as China through August accounted for
less than 1 percent Norway’s exports. China imported 188,000
tons of crude oil (1.5 million barrels) in the first eight
months of 2010, according to  Statistics Norway . The country is
the world’s seventh-biggest oil exporter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ; 