-- China Trade Surplus Poised to Cap Biggest Quarter Since Crisis
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-12T01:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/china-raises-deposit-reserve-ratio-by-half-point-for-banks-reuters-says.html
China may report</a> a $17.8 billion
 trade surplus  for September that would cap the biggest quarterly 
excess since the financial crisis in 2008, adding fuel to U.S. 
calls for import protection.  The median estimate of 24 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
News compares with an August surplus of $20 billion. That would
take the third-quarter total to $66.5 billion, the largest since
the fourth quarter of 2008. The data will be released tomorrow.  The U.S. Senate will consider legislation that would allow
duties to be imposed on Chinese imports because of the nation’s
failure to allow bigger currency gains, according to Senator
 Charles Schumer  of New York. Yuan forwards surged to the highest
level in more than two years yesterday on speculation that
Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government will yield to U.S. and European
pressure.  “China’s trade surplus may reach $200 billion this year,
giving the U.S. and Europe more ammunition,” said  Shen Jianguang , a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities Asia
Ltd. who formerly worked for the International Monetary Fund and
the European Central Bank. Policy makers should speed gains by
the yuan “because a currency war would be most damaging to
China,” Shen said.  By comparison, the trade surplus was $196 billion in 2009.  Currency Reserves  China may also this week announce the third-quarter
increase in the nation’s foreign-currency  reserves , which
climbed $48 billion to a record $2.5 trillion, according to the
median  estimate  in an economists’ survey.  The yuan fell 0.1 percent to 6.6742 per dollar as of 9:46
a.m. in Shanghai today.  Inflows of capital from trade and foreign investment and
so-called hot money betting on gains by the Chinese currency are
complicating management of the fastest-growing major economy.
Besides keeping  inflation  in check, policy makers want to cool
the real-estate market to prevent asset bubbles.  China’s central bank unexpectedly and temporarily raised
reserve requirements for six large commercial lenders, reining
in liquidity as the economy stabilizes, according to a Reuters
report yesterday.  The  ratio  will increase 50 basis points and for two months,
the news agency said, citing four people who weren’t identified
by name. The current level is 17 percent for the biggest banks
and 15 percent for smaller ones. Market News cited traders, also
not identified by name, to the same effect. The People’s Bank of
China and the six banks declined to comment.  Draining Liquidity  Li Shanshan , a Beijing-based banking analyst at BoCom
International Holdings Co., said the reported move may be to
drain liquidity because of 570 billion yuan ($86 billion) of
central bank bills maturing in October.  Isaac Meng , a Beijing-based economist at BNP Paribas, said
that the central bank may have acted in anticipation of extra
money flowing into China because of quantitative easing in the
U.S. and investors betting on the yuan.  “To combat rising  inflation  concerns the best option would
be to raise interest rates, but apparently the Chinese
government cannot do that for fear of more capital inflows,”
said  Dorris Chen , a Shanghai-based bank analyst who also works
for BNP Paribas.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards jumped 0.8 percent to
6.4390 per dollar as of 5:30 p.m. in Hong Kong yesterday,
indicating the currency may strengthen 3.6 percent against the
dollar from the spot rate. The yuan yesterday touched 6.6610,
the highest since 1993. The Chinese currency has gained more
than 2 percent since the government said in June that it would
allow more flexibility.  Slower Trade Growth  China’s  exports  probably grew 26 percent last month from a
year earlier, compared with a gain of 34.4 percent in August,
according to the economists’ survey. Import growth may have
slowed to 25 percent from 35.2 percent.  Debate about competitive devaluations dominated
International Monetary Fund meetings last week. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  renewed his call for China to let
its currency rise and Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs a panel of euro-area finance ministers, said
the yuan is “more than undervalued.”  Chinese central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said his
nation needs to avoid the “shock therapy” of excessive yuan
appreciation and “very fast” gains probably wouldn’t end
global economic imbalances. Yuan gains of 20 percent to 40
percent would exacerbate Chinese unemployment and cause social
upheaval, according to Premier Wen.  -- Li Yanping ,  Luo Jun . With assistance from  Jay Wang  in
Singapore. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Andrew Barden   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  