-- Citic Securities Jumps 10%, Leads Gains by Brokerage Shares on Fee Rules
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-11T05:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/citic-securities-jumps-10-leads-gains-by-brokerage-shares-on-fee-rules.html
Citic Securities Co.  rose the most
in 21 months in Shanghai trading after the  Securities
Association of China  urged the nation’s brokerages to consider
total costs when setting prices and on speculation they stand to
benefit from the stock market’s rebound.  Citic Securities  gained  9.2 percent to 12.33 yuan in
Shanghai trading at the 11:30 a.m. local time trading break,
headed toward the biggest one-day gain since Jan. 14, 2009.
 Haitong Securities Co.  rose 7.6 percent to 10.23 yuan and  Huatai
Securities Co.  added 6.6 percent to 14.75 yuan. The benchmark
 Shanghai Composite Index  advanced 2.4 percent to 2805.61.  The Securities Association of China urged securities
companies to charge brokerage fees based on total costs in a
guidance document released Oct. 7. The rule is supposed to guide
securities companies away from price wars and will benefit
larger securities companies with lower average costs and bigger
brokerage businesses.  The Shanghai Composite has gained 19 percent from a July
low on signs the nation’s economic slowdown is stabilizing.  “The new rule is a strong triggering factor, but not
determining factor,” said  Chen Jiantao , an analyst at China
Jianyin Investment Securities Co. “Securities stocks are
boosted by fundamental aspects including a strong recovery in
Shanghai trading volumes since July and more money flowing into
the stock market.”  The prospect China’s economic growth will accelerate
prompted  Moody’s  Investors Service last week to say it may
upgrade the nation’s debt rating within three months from the
fifth-highest ranking of A1. Faster growth and the yuan’s gain
to the strongest against the dollar since a peg was scrapped in
July 2005 have also boosted fund inflows into China’s stock
market.  -- Eva Woo . Editors:  Malcolm Scott ,  Andreea Papuc   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eva Woo  in Beijing at 
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  