-- Cnooc to Pay $1.08 Billion for Stake in Texas Shale Gas Project
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-11T20:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/cnooc-unit-to-pay-1-08-billion-in-cash-for-stake-in-gas-project.html
Cnooc Ltd.  will pay $1.08 billion
for a one-third stake in  Chesapeake Energy Corp. ’s Eagle Ford
shale project in Texas, in the biggest acquisition of a U.S. oil
and gas asset by a Chinese company.  Cnooc, listed in Hong Kong, plans to buy 33.3 percent of
Chesapeake’s 600,000 oil and gas leasehold acres in Eagle Ford,
the companies said in separate statements. Cnooc will also pay
$1.08 billion of Chesapeake’s drilling costs in the basin, Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  said in an interview.  The purchase would give Cnooc its first onshore energy
asset in the U.S., five years after it dropped an $18.5 billion
bid for Unocal Corp. amid political opposition. China’s third-
largest oil company has spent at least $3.8 billion on overseas
acquisitions in the past year as the nation’s energy demand
surges.  “The deal reflects the ambition of Chinese companies to
enter the global oil and gas industry, especially when China’s
gas demand is expected to rise sharply,” said  Grace Liu , an
energy analyst with Guotai Junan Securities in the southern city
of Shenzhen.  The Cnooc purchase was the second announced in one day for
drilling rights in the Eagle Ford shale, which lies across a
swath of southern Texas.  Statoil ASA  of Norway agreed to pay
$843 million, or $10,900 an acre, to set up an equal joint
venture in the region with Talisman Energy Inc. Cnooc is paying
$10,800 an acre, which includes the upfront cash and drilling
costs in the basin, McClendon said.  ‘Confirming Value’  “Both deals, which were independent, do a nice job of
confirming value in the area,” he said.  The per-acre prices are “solid” and should buoy the stock
of Chesapeake and other U.S. producers with large holdings in
the Eagle Ford shale including EOG Resources Inc., Pioneer
Natural Resources Co., SM Energy Co. and Petrohawk Energy Corp.,
 Scott Hanold , an Austin, Texas-based analyst for RBC Capital
Markets, said in an e-mail today.  Cnooc jumped 4.5 percent to close at HK$16.80 in Hong Kong
trading, the highest level since Oct. 30, 2007. The  shares  have
advanced 38 percent this year, outpacing the 6.1 percent gain in
the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Chesapeake, based in Oklahoma City,  rose  as much as 5.5
percent. The shares gained 25 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $23.30
at 4:02 p.m. in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange.  Chesapeake has 10 wells in the Eagle Ford and will increase
to about 40 rigs by the end of 2012 with the Cnooc funds,
according to its statement. The company said the project will
reach peak production of 400,000 to 500,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day in the next decade.  Chinese Capital  U.S. regulatory approval isn’t needed for the Eagle Ford
stake purchase,  Jim Gipson , a Chesapeake spokesman, said by e-
mail.  “This deal is completely consistent with what U.S.
government has said they would like to see Chinese energy
companies do, which is to provide capital into America to
acquire minority interests and for American companies to use
that capital to go out and develop American oil fields and to
reduce oil imports,” McClendon said.  Cnooc bought minority interests last year in four
exploration licenses Statoil ASA holds in the U.S. Gulf of
Mexico. That purchase may have cost less than $80 million,
 Gordon Kwan , the head of energy research at Mirae Asset
Securities, said in November.  Largest Investment  The Cnooc-Chesapeake deal would be the largest investment
by a Chinese company in the U.S. oil and gas industry, after
Hopu Investment Management Co. bought $100 million of
Chesapeake’s convertible preferred shares in May, according to
Bloomberg data.  Cnooc joins Reliance Industries Ltd. in buying shale assets
in the U.S. as China and India compete for global energy
resources. India’s biggest company by market value has spent
$3.4 billion since April investing in U.S. shale gas, including
a $1.3 billion purchase of areas in the Eagle Ford formation
from Pioneer Natural Resources Co.  “You have all these companies that have big acreage
positions, but they don’t have the capital to develop the
assets,” said  Ralph Eads , the Houston-based chairman of energy
investment banking at Jefferies Group Inc. Jefferies is advising
Chesapeake on the transaction. Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. is
advising Cnooc.  Liquid-Rich Shale  The Cnooc purchase at $10,900 an acre is similar to the
$11,100 an acre that Reliance paid to Pioneer in June,  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., said in a report.  “Cnooc has struck a good deal given the assets are liquid-
rich, which is about three times more valuable than gas on an
energy equivalent basis,” according to Beveridge.  Crude oil futures have averaged $77.86 a barrel this year
on the New York Mercantile Exchange, up 25 percent from last
year’s average of $62.10.  Eagle Ford is estimated to have reserves equaling more than
80 billion barrels of oil. Shale is rock that can be heated or
treated with chemicals to release oil and gas.  The formation is about 50 miles (80 kilometers) wide and
400 miles long, extending from Texas’s southern border to the
east, according to the Railroad Commission of Texas, which
regulates the oil industry. Eagle Ford delivers natural gas and
“appears to produce much more oil” than other shale fields,
the agency wrote on its  website .  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
 Ying Wang  in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 