-- Congo War Crime Suspect Callixte Mbarushimana Arrested in Paris, ICC Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2010-10-11T17:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/congo-war-crime-suspect-callixte-mbarushimana-arrested-in-paris-icc-says.html
A leader of an ethnic-Hutu rebel
group with links to the 1994 Rwandan genocide was arrested in
France for alleged war crimes committed in the Democratic
Republic of Congo, the International Criminal Court said.  Callixte Mbarushimana, executive secretary of the
Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda, or FDLR, was
taken into custody at his home in Paris by French authorities
today, Pascal Turlan, the court’s international cooperation
adviser, said by phone from the city.  The rebel leader is accused of “general attacks against
the civilian population including a series of massacres”
committed by the FDLR in eastern Congo last year, Turlan said.
The ICC is also investigating the FDLR’s involvement in attacks
committed in August of this year in which hundreds of civilians
were raped, he said.  Hutu rebels first fled to eastern  Congo  after the Rwandan
genocide, in which 800,000 ethnic-Tutsis and moderate Hutus were
killed in a 100-day massacre. They formed a succession of rebel
groups, including the FDLR, and preyed upon the Congolese
population.  The Congolese army is tracking down the remaining FDLR
rebels in an operation supported by United Nations peacekeepers
in eastern Congo.  ‘Important Blow’  “It’s an important blow, not a fatal blow, but an important
blow against the FDLR,” Major Sylvain Ekenge, spokesman for the
Congolese army operations against the rebels, said by phone from
Goma. “This is what we’ve all been asking for, because they’re
a foreign force and they get financing from foreign countries.”  The arrest is “an indicator of the good bilateral
relationship between  Rwanda  and Congo and also of the efforts by
various countries to track down genocide suspects and arrest
them,” Rwandan Military spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Jill
Rutaremara said by phone from Kigali, Rwanda’s capital. “And it
goes further to demoralize the FDLR.”  A December report by  Human Rights Watch , the New York-based
advocacy group, accused the FDLR of killing more than 700
civilians in the first nine months of last year.  In one attack on the town of Busurungi last May, the rebels
killed at least 96 people and burned down more than 700 houses,
Human Rights Watch said. “Nearly half the victims were shot or
hacked to death by machete,” the group said, while others had
their throats slit or were immolated in their homes.  Mass Rapes  The FDLR also participated in a series of attacks on 13
villages in eastern Congo between July 30 and Aug. 2 this year
that resulted in the rape of more than 300 civilians, according
to the UN.  “The arrest of Callixte Mbarushimana sends a strong signal
to abusive commanders in Congo and elsewhere that the ICC is at
work investigating their crimes and that they will not go
unpunished,”  Anneke Van Woudenberg , a senior researcher at
Human Rights Watch, said by e-mail today.  Mbarushimana is also suspected of participating in the 1994
genocide. ICC jurisdiction dates back to 2002, when the court
was created, so Mbarushimana will face trial only for FDLR
crimes committed in Congo.  The FDLR’s president, Ignace Murwanashyaka, was arrested in
November in Germany. He is awaiting trial for war crimes and
crimes against humanity.  Calls to the ICC seeking contact details for Mbarushimana’s
lawyers weren’t answered outside of normal working hours. An e-
mailed request for the information wasn’t immediately responded
to.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa on 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net ;
 Jurjen van de Pol  at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 