-- Copper May Advance as Speculation About Fed Policy Weighs on the Dollar
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-10-11T12:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/copper-may-advance-as-dollar-trades-near-eight-month-low-against-the-euro.html
Copper may rise in New York and
London as speculation that Federal Reserve officials will this
week signal their readiness to buy more government debt to
support economic growth weighs on the dollar.  The U.S. currency traded near an eight-month low against
the euro and touched a 15-year low versus the yen before
tomorrow’s release of minutes from the Fed’s Sept. 21 policy
meeting. A weaker dollar makes metals priced in the currency
cheaper in terms of other monies and fuels demand for raw
materials as an alternative investment.  “The rising supply of dollars in the system will increase
demand for hard assets like commodities and precious metals as a
store of value,” said  Prasad Patkar , who helps manage about
$1.8 billion at Platypus Asset Management in Sydney.  Copper for delivery in December rose 1.25 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $3.787 a pound at 8:10 a.m. on the Comex in New
York. Prices touched $3.82, the highest level since July 8,
2008. Copper for delivery in three months added 0.1 percent to
$8,317 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange.  Fed speculation intensified on Oct. 8 as government figures
showed that U.S. payrolls fell by 95,000 workers in September,
more than the drop of 5,000 estimated by analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The Dow Jones Industrial Average of U.S. equities
closed above 11,000 points.  IMF Meeting  Exchange rates dominated the International Monetary Fund’s
annual meeting in Washington amid concern that nations are
relying on cheaper currencies to aid growth, risking trade wars.
China was accused of undervaluing the yuan, while low interest
rates in the U.S. and other rich nations were blamed for
flooding emerging markets with capital.  “We expect further gains in base-metal prices, especially
copper and tin, as the outcome from the recent IMF meeting and
last week’s U.S. jobless-claims number confirm the market’s
expectations of renewed quantitative easing in the U.S. and
Japan,”  Hussein Allidina , head of commodities research at
Morgan Stanley in New York, said in a report today.  Hedge funds raised bullish bets on copper futures to the
highest level since Feb. 1, according to U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 24,399 contracts on the Comex in
the week ended Oct. 5, the commission said in its Commitments of
Traders report on Oct. 8. Net-long positions rose by 2,237
contracts, or 10 percent from a week earlier.  Exchange-Traded Funds  ETF Securities Ltd., manager of $22 billion in assets, said
it’s preparing to introduce exchange-traded commodities funds
backed by copper, aluminum, nickel, lead, zinc and tin. No date
has been set for trading to start, spokeswoman Noreen Shah said.  “The big question on everyone’s lips is whether there will
be an official exchange-traded fund launch announcement this
week in one of the metals,” RBC Capital Markets said in a
report today.  Aluminum is most likely to be the first industrial metal to
trade via an ETF, while tin is least likely to back a product
because it has the smallest inventories, according to a
Bloomberg survey of analysts.  LME copper  stockpiles  rose 0.1 percent today to 372,475
tons, daily exchange figures showed. They fell last week for a
33rd week in a row. Copper stockpiles in Shanghai rose by the
most in almost six months, the Shanghai Futures Exchange said
Oct. 8.  Orders to draw copper from LME stocks, or canceled
warrants, rose 11 percent to 25,300 tons. They have surged 55
percent in three sessions.  Tin for three-month delivery on the LME fell 0.4 percent to
$26,250 a ton. Prices touched a record $26,790 on Oct. 6. The
metal has jumped 55 percent this year, leading advances on the
LME, after production was disrupted in Indonesia and the
Democratic Republic of the Congo.  Nickel climbed 0.3 percent to $24,475 a ton, while aluminum
gained 0.1 percent to $2,423 a ton. Lead added 1.2 percent to
$2,300 a ton and zinc rose 1.8 percent to $2,331 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 