-- Copper in London, New York Surges to 27-Month Highs on Fed Easing Concerns
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-10-11T06:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/copper-in-london-new-york-surges-to-27-month-highs-on-fed-easing-concerns.html
Copper in London and New York surged
to 27-month highs on speculation that the Federal Reserve will
increase measures to stimulate the U.S. economy, weakening the
dollar and boosting demand for commodities as alternative
investments. The metal jumped to a six-month high in Shanghai.  Three-month delivery copper rose as much as 0.9 percent to
$8,388 a metric ton, the highest price since July 2008, before
trading at $8,362 a ton at 2:13 p.m. in Singapore. Futures for
December delivery on the Comex in New York gained as much as 1.2
percent to $3.82 a pound, also the highest since July 2008,
before trading at $3.808 a pound.  “There’s just too much liquidity around and people want to
put their money somewhere,” Li Qiang, an analyst at Xinhu
Futures Co., said from Shanghai. “The expectations for looser
monetary policy in the U.S. will weigh on the dollar and keep
commodities supported.”  January-delivery copper on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
gained as much as 4.7 percent to 63,480 yuan ($9,516) a ton, the
highest level since April 12. Shanghai zinc futures jumped by
the daily 5 percent limit to a five-month high, while aluminum
in Shanghai also advanced to the highest price in more than five
months.  A rally in agricultural markets also helped support metals
prices today as investors boosted commodity holdings, according
to Hongyuan Futures Co. Corn, soybean and palm oil futures on
the Dalian Commodity Exchange, cotton futures on the Zhengzhou
Commodity Exchange and rubber futures in Shanghai all soared by
their daily limits today.  Currency, Commodities  “In the short term, domestic commodities will benefit from
an appreciation of the yuan, so speculators are just pouring
money into the market,” said Hongyuan’s Beijing-based analyst
Yang Jun. “Once the exuberance dies down, investors may find a
stronger yuan will hurt Chinese exports and have a negative
impact on demand for raw materials.”  Debate about competitive devaluations dominated discussions
as finance ministers and central bankers gathered for meetings
at the International Monetary Fund from Oct. 8 through
yesterday. China faces demands from Western nations to let the
yuan rise more quickly at a time when the U.S. is trying to trim
its trade deficit and European nations are attempting to stem an
outflow of manufacturing jobs.  A “very fast” appreciation probably wouldn’t bring
balance to the world economy, People’s Bank of China Governor
 Zhou Xiaochuan  said yesterday. Separately, Zhou also said China
aims to avoid any “shock therapy” in its currency reform.  Dollar Weakens  The  dollar  declined for a second day against a six-currency
basket after a report last week showed bigger-than-expected job
cuts, boosting prospects the Fed may use quantitative-easing
measures to spur the economy. It fell toward an eight-month low
against euro and touched a 15-year low versus the yen before the
release of the Fed’s Sept. 21 policy meeting minutes tomorrow.  Aluminum gained as much as 0.5 percent to $2,431.75 a ton,
the highest price since April 19, as China’s Henan province said
it will cut output of the metal by 180,000 metric tons in the
fourth quarter. The move is part of government efforts to reduce
power consumption, the Henan Nonferrous Metals Industry
Association said on its website on Oct. 9. Henan accounts for 25
percent of total aluminum output in China, according to Essence
Securities.  Among other LME-traded metals, zinc added 2.2 percent to
$2,340 a ton, lead climbed 1.6 percent to $2,309 a ton, nickel
gained 1.4 percent to $24,730 a ton and tin advanced 0.9 percent
to $26,585 a ton at 2:17 p.m. in Singapore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 Gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  