-- Cotton Futures Surge Exchange Limit in N.Y.; Orange-Juice Prices Decline
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-10-11T20:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/cotton-futures-surge-exchange-limit-in-n-y-orange-juice-prices-decline.html
Cotton prices rose, extending a
rally to a 15-year high, on mounting concern that global demand
will outpace shrinking supplies. Orange-juice prices declined.  India, the world’s second-biggest cotton grower, stopped
registering export contracts after Cargill Inc., Louis Dreyfus
Commodities and other trading companies filled the quota. On
Oct. 8, the U.S. Department of Agriculture cut its forecast for
global output and raised its estimate for worldwide demand.  “The market is just in a runaway situation,” said  Sharon Johnson , a senior analyst at First Capital Group LLC. “Mills
are in full panic mode.”  Cotton for December delivery surged 3.33 cents, or 3.1
percent, to settle at $1.1105 a pound at 2:39 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York. Earlier, the price gained as much as 4
cents, the exchange limit, to $1.1117, the highest level for a
most-active contract since June 19, 1995.  Futures rose for the fifth straight session, the longest
rally since late July. The fiber has surged 75 percent in the
past 12 months. The U.S. is the world’s biggest exporter, and
China is the top grower.  India’s export quota was filled 10 days after registrations
began Oct. 1. Shipments will begin Nov. 1.  The  Cotlook A Index , which reflects the average of the five
cheapest cotton prices offered at Far East ports, rose to a
record $1.215 a pound today, industry researcher Cotlook Ltd.
said.  “The already very tight world-supply situation is
tightening further,”  Don Shurley , a professor and cotton
economist at the University of Georgia in Tifton, said in a
report.  Orange Juice Falls  Orange-juice futures for November delivery fell 3.7 cents,
or 2.4 percent, to settle at $1.5005 a pound in New York.  The price jumped 12 percent in September on concerns that
storms may damage groves in Florida, the world’s second-biggest
citrus grower. The Atlantic hurricane season ends in November.  “We should be seeing some of this hurricane premium start
pulling out,” said  Jimmy Tintle , an analyst at Transworld
Futures in Tampa, Florida.  Brazil is the world’s largest grower. Futures have gained
16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  