-- Crude Oil Futures Decline in N.Y. as Dollar Strengthens Against Euro, Yen
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-10-11T20:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/crude-oil-futures-decrease-amid-speculation-dollar-may-rebound-from-lows.html
Crude oil dropped, snapping a three-
week rally that took prices to the highest levels since May, as
the dollar strengthened against the euro and the yen, curbing
the appeal of commodities as an alternative investment.  Oil fell as the dollar rose from an eight-month low against
the euro and a 15-year low to the yen. The currency retreated
earlier on speculation that the Federal Reserve will signal it’s
willing to buy more government debt to spur economic growth.
Petroleum supplies were near their highest level in 20 years.  “The market’s not that strongly supported by fundamentals,
so people are watching things like the currency,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester, Massachusetts. “The dollar’s still low, but maybe
people think we’re close to the bottom.”  Crude for November delivery lost 45 cents, or 0.5 percent,
to settle at $82.21 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Prices increased 1.3 percent last week in the third
consecutive weekly gain, the longest stretch since June. Futures
have risen 15 percent in the past year.  Brent crude for November settlement decreased 31 cents, or
0.4 percent, to $83.72 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London.  Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said today that the
market is “very well-balanced” and that an oil price between
$70 and $80 a barrel is “ideal.”  Al-Naimi, who spoke upon arrival in Vienna for an Oct. 14
OPEC meeting, said he is “happy” with current prices. The
kingdom, the largest oil producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 8.25 million barrels a day
in September, based on Bloomberg estimates. That’s more than
double the output of Iran, OPEC’s second-biggest producer.  Dollar Forecast  The dollar’s biggest quarterly  decline  in eight years may
be setting the stage for a rally, according to analysts from
 HSBC  Holdings Plc, BNP Paribas SA and Nordea Bank AB.  The U.S. currency gained 0.4 percent to $1.3889 per euro at
2:57 p.m. in New York from $1.3939 on Oct. 8. It fell to $1.4012
earlier today and reached $1.4029 on Oct. 7, the weakest level
since Jan. 28. The dollar traded at 82.07 yen, from 81.93 last
week. Earlier, it reached 81.39, the lowest level since April
1995.  Financial markets in Japan and bond markets in the U.S. are
closed today for holidays.  “Fundamentals still aren’t strong enough to keep us
supported at these levels for the long term, especially if the
dollar strengthens,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker at
Bache Commodities Ltd. in London.  Markets ‘Oversupplied’  Total petroleum supplies  in the U.S. were 1.14 billion
barrels in the week ended Oct. 1, just 5 million barrels below a
record set in the week ended Sept. 17, according to figures from
the Energy Department released last week.  Fuel consumption  dropped 6.4 percent to 18.5 million
barrels a day in the week ended Oct. 1, the biggest weekly
decline since Feb. 27, 2004, according to the department.  Global oil markets are “oversupplied,” Iranian OPEC
governor  Mohammad Ali Khatibi  was cited as saying on Oct. 9 by
the Iranian Students News Agency. OPEC may leave oil production
unchanged at the Vienna meeting because signs of renewed demand
have yet to emerge among the world’s developed economies.  “I don’t think there will be any shift” in quotas by
OPEC, Qatari Oil Minister  Abdullah al-Attiyah  said in a phone
interview yesterday after meeting in Kuwait with ministers from
Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf nations. “Producers and
consumers are happy” with current oil prices, he said.  OPEC members are exceeding their allotted quotas after
prices surged 78 percent in 2009 and a further 4 percent this
year.  Quantitative Easing  A resumption of U.S. quantitative easing, or Fed purchases
of debt to stimulate the economy, will put pressure on the
dollar and raise market expectations for future oil price
increases,  JPMorgan Chase  & Co. said in a note today. The Fed is
scheduled to release minutes of its Sept. 21 policy meeting
tomorrow.  Gasoline for November delivery gained 1.43 cents, or 0.7
percent, to settle at $2.1655 a gallon, the commodity’s eighth
increase in nine days, as a strike by workers at the French port
of Marseille’s oil terminals entered its 15th day, threatening
imports into New York Harbor.  The hypothetical profit margin, or crack spread, to refine
a barrel of oil for November delivery into a barrel of gasoline
jumped 14 percent to $8.741 on the Nymex, the highest price
since Aug. 5.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 444,178
contracts as of 3:01 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 873,617
contracts Oct. 8, 28 percent above the average of the past three
months. Open interest was 1.45 million contracts, the highest
level since May 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 