-- Joan Sutherland, Superstar Diva, Dies, 83: Manuela Hoelterhoff
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2010-10-12T01:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/dame-joan-sutherland-diva-who-sang-mad-lucia-dies-in-switzerland-at-83.html
Joan Sutherland , a large-boned,
helmet-haired, high-singing Australian soprano with a perfect
trill, died at age 83 in Switzerland, her refuge after decades
of singing unhinged maidens, enraged priestesses, and happy-go-
lucky waifs.  Her passing -- confirmed by her record company, Decca --
empties the world of one of the last divas of an era dominated
by grand personalities.  I recall an early afternoon in 1985 when I visited her in
Chicago where she was singing “Anna Bolena,” a melodious opera
by Donizetti, a favorite composer, who also wrote “Lucia di
Lammermoor.” Mad Lucy made Sutherland a world star at Covent
Garden in 1959.  The door opened on a mansion borrowed for the run and large
enough to accommodate the Tudor court and Henry VIII who spends
most of the opera trying to cut off Anne’s head. A retainer led
me to the living room where I awaited the diva who entered
dressed in a burgundy drape with a little bow underneath her
huge chin.  Trailing behind was the slim, handsome Richard Bonynge, her
husband and preferred conductor, who was more finely made and
would have fit into her pouch had she morphed into a kangaroo.  Though never fat, Sutherland was an imposing presence who
invariably towered over the company on stage.  “It’s not that I am so tall,” she guffawed cheerfully, as
she took her place on a puffy sofa. “It is that tenors are so
small.”  A Joke  She had a good laugh remembering the hard-to-see Dino
Formichini, whose very name means little ant.  Sutherland and Bonynge, who also hailed from Australia, met
in London where she studied and made early appearances at Covent
Garden as a Valkyrie.  “I expected to sing Wagner and Verdi,” she said that day
in Chicago, kicking Bonynge at the absurdity. He ventured that
he beat her with his baton (I think that was a joke of his)
until she learned coloratura showpieces of the early 19th
century, the bel canto era.  Theirs became a collaboration that made history as
Sutherland stunned audiences with the billowing size of her
voice, its surprising flexibility and phenomenal high range.
Italians called her “La Stupenda.” Especially in the 1950s,
the bel canto repertoire was sung by warbling little women.  Callas’s Cloak  An exception was the great divinity,  Maria Callas , whose
cloak Sutherland was allowed to touch when she sang the lowly
Clotilde to the diva’s Norma at Covent Garden in 1952.
Sutherland remembered almost falling over at the Greek-American
soprano’s searing voice. She deeply regretted, Sutherland said,
that she had not called on her -- they had planned to have tea -
- after Callas retired early in the 1970s from an exhausting
life on and off the stage and became something of a recluse.  Unlike Callas in her heyday, Sutherland was not much for
high society, and credited her vocal longevity to a disciplined
life and low-impact sports like needlepoint. A glowing biography
by Quaintance Eaton of Sutherland and Bonynge, published in 1987,
included photographs of skillfully embroidered chairs in their
Swiss castle-chalet. She liked to while away intermissions
improving her art.  Luciano Pavarotti  Sutherland had hoped to bring “Anna Bolena” to the
Metropolitan Opera. It was not to be. The company’s humorless
management team was largely immune to the charm of the bel canto
operas and also to her husband, who was part of the package.  He endured with good grace the barbed reviews that all too
often came his way, though he was actually a reliably fleet and
informed conductor. It was Bonynge who presided over a
production of Donizetti’s “La Fille du Regiment” production at
the Met that brings a smile to the face of everyone who was
there in 1972 when she romped through the show with a young
Luciano Pavarotti by her side as the bumpkin Tonio. He sang lots
of unforgettable high Cs while she played with Marie’s little
drum and danced a jig.  Pavarotti, who was tall and then almost thin, became a
favorite partner until her last production at the Met in 1987,
 Verdi’s  “Il Trovatore,” a monumental, stilted staging that
kept her center stage, spotlit and handsomely garbed in period
costumes.  Franco Zeffirelli  Today the focus in the land of opera is on directors,
designers and skinny singers with sneaker collections. Though
the young Sutherland was happy to work with a genius director
like  Franco Zeffirelli , who guided her through “Lucia,” she
detested weird productions that retold the story.  “Eeek,” she said, remembering a modern staging in which
she had to sing Norma’s sublime opening aria to a naked body
served up as a sacrifice on the altar.  For glimpses of Sutherland, go to YouTube. Her many
recommended recordings include “Norma,” “La Fille du
Regiment,” “La Traviata,” “Lucia di Lammermoor” and several
aria albums.  ( Manuela Hoelterhoff  is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Manuela Hoelterhoff  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 