-- DAX Benchmark Advances; Salzgitter, Lanxess Gain, Shares of Merck Decline
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-10-11T15:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/dax-benchmark-fluctuates-k-s-gains-on-grains-prices-shares-of-merck-drop.html
German stocks climbed as Salzgitter
AG and Lanxess AG advanced, while Merck KGaA declined.  Salzgitter  rose 3.3 percent after Chief Financial Officer
 Heinz Joerg Fuhrmann  told Boersen-Zeitung that the steelmaker
increased its sales in the third quarter. Lanxess AG jumped 2.9
percent after Barclays Plc advised buying the shares. Merck
dropped after analysts said that the drugmaker’s Erbitux therapy
failed to show benefits in patients with colon cancer.  The  DAX Index  rose 0.3 percent to 6,309.51 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Frankfurt. The measure rallied 1.3 percent last week as
investors speculated that the U.S. Federal Reserve and other
central banks will step in to provide more stimulus for the
ailing global recovery. The broader HDAX Index gained 0.4
percent today.  “While the Fed has refrained from announcing quantitative
easing at the September meeting, it has clearly opened the
door” to use more stimulus,  Jamal Meliani , an economist at
Newedge Group in Paris, wrote in a note today. “Unless economic
data surprises sharply on the upside, a move as soon as the
November meeting appears quite certain. Insofar as quantitative
easing helps drive inflation expectations higher and real yields
lower, this is supportive for equities.”  Salzgitter  rose 3.3 percent to 51.23 euros. Germany’s
second-largest steelmaker achieved a “significant” increase in
revenue compared with the second quarter by renegotiating
contracts and raising prices for some products, Fuhrmann told
Boersen-Zeitung in an interview.  Lanxess, Merck  Lanxess  jumped 2.9 percent to 47.83 euros, the shares’
highest price since the company first sold shares to the public.
The world’s second-biggest maker of butyl rubber was rated
“overweight” in new coverage at Barclays, which cited the
company’s business outlook and stock valuation.  Merck  declined 1.1 percent to 60.77 euros. A study of the
company’s Erbitux drug presented last weekend at the Congress of
the European Society for Medical Oncology showed that the
compound failed to slow the progression of colon tumors and did
not prolong the lives of colon cancer patients.  The following stocks also rose or fell in Germany. Stock
symbols are in parentheses:  Deutsche Beteiligungs AG  (DBA GY) rose 1.6 percent to 18.46
euros. The German private-equity company will pay shareholders a
dividend of 40 cents and may even disburse a special dividend if
its business develops well in coming weeks, Wirtschaftswoche
reported, citing Chief Executive Officer  Wilken Freiherr von Hodenberg .  Volkswagen AG  (VOW3 GY) rose 1.4 percent to 90.54 euros,
the stock’s fifth straight advance. Europe’s biggest carmaker
will expand vehicle and component production at its German
factories in Wolfsburg and Kassel, Stuttgarter Zeitung reported,
without citing anyone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 