-- Diamond's Nobel Prize May Ease Confirmation to Fed Post
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2010-10-11T19:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/diamond-s-nobel-prize-may-weaken-republican-opposition-to-fed-nomination.html
Peter A. Diamond ’s  Nobel Prize  in
economics may weaken Senate Republican opposition to the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor’s  Federal
Reserve Board  nomination, improving his chances of joining the
central bank.  Richard Shelby , the senior Republican on the Banking
Committee, in July questioned Diamond’s qualifications on
monetary policy, and at least one unidentified senator made a
procedural move to send Diamond’s nomination back to the White
House in August.  Diamond’s Nobel Prize, announced today, “makes it more
difficult to oppose him on the grounds that he isn’t a
sufficiently qualified economist,” said  Tim Duy , a former U.S.
Treasury Department economist who now directs the Oregon
Economic Forum at the University of Oregon in Eugene.  While it’s not a sure thing, the prize probably adds enough
Republican votes to assure confirmation, said  Mark Calabria , a
former aide to Shelby.  The Banking Committee  voted 16-7 in July
to recommend Diamond to the full Senate, with all 13 Democrats
on the panel backing Diamond.  Christopher Dodd , the Connecticut
Democrat who chairs the panel, has said he’s prepared to hold a
second hearing on Diamond after Shelby requested one.  In July, Shelby, of Alabama, called Diamond a “skilled
economist” while questioning whether he has sufficient
expertise in monetary policy to join the Fed. “I do not believe
that the current environment of uncertainty would benefit from
monetary policy decisions made by board members who are learning
on the job,” said Shelby, 76, at the July 28 committee vote.  Shelby Statement  Today, Shelby said in a statement: “While the Nobel Prize
for Economics is a significant recognition, the Royal Swedish
Academy of Sciences does not determine who is qualified to serve
on the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.”  The White House and Democratic leaders have been struggling
with Senate Republicans to win approval for dozens of pending
presidential appointments. In March, President  Barack Obama  used
his constitutional authority to fill vacant federal positions by
making 15 recess appointments, the first time he bypassed the
requirement for advice and consent of the Senate.  Obama, in a statement today, said he nominated Diamond for
the Fed “to help bring his extraordinary expertise to our
economic recovery.”  “I hope he will be confirmed by the Senate as quickly as
possible,” Obama said.  ‘Well-Qualified’  Robert Gibbs , White House press secretary, said in a
statement that “obstructing a nominee as well-qualified as
Peter in a time of economic crisis is a harmful attempt to score
political points that hurts our middle class and our broader
economic recovery.” Obama urges the Senate to confirm Diamond
and “dozens of other nominees who are being blocked,” Gibbs
said.  Diamond, 70, was nominated in April to be a Fed governor,
along with  Janet Yellen , San Francisco Fed president, and  Sarah Bloom Raskin , Maryland’s commissioner of financial regulation.
Diamond, a former teacher of Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , was
resubmitted for approval by Obama on Sept. 13. Yellen was sworn
in as Fed vice chairman Oct. 4 along with Raskin, now a
governor, after they were confirmed Sept. 29.  Diamond declined to comment today on the lawmakers who are
holding up his nomination. In a telephone interview with
Bloomberg News, he urged Congress to extend unemployment
benefits and approve more aid for state and local governments to
help them keep teachers and other workers on the job.  Supply and Demand  Diamond shared the Nobel Prize with  Dale Mortensen  and
 Christopher Pissarides  for research into the difficulties of
matching supply and demand, particularly in the labor market.  “This year’s three laureates have formulated a theoretical
framework for search markets” such as ones where buyers look
for sellers and applicants look for jobs, the Royal Swedish
Academy of Sciences, which selects the winner, said today in
Stockholm.  Diamond’s nomination may now potentially hinge on whether
Dodd can hold a second hearing and the Banking Committee can
vote during a so-called “lame duck” session after the Nov. 2
midterm elections. The full Senate would then need to approve
Diamond.  “This just puts an exclamation point to Senator Shelby,”
said  Robert Solow , 86, winner of the Nobel Economics Prize in
1987 and professor emeritus at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, in a telephone interview. “He’s not just depriving
the Fed of a good nominee but of one of the world’s half dozen
best economists.”  Republican Response  The six other Republican senators who voted against Diamond
in the Banking Committee didn’t immediately respond to requests
for comment today through their press spokespersons.  The prize also opens the doors to more prominent or
lucrative opportunities that Diamond may find difficult to turn
down, Calabria said. Diamond said at an MIT news conference
today he has no plans to withdraw his candidacy.  “A Nobel laureate is A-list,” said Calabria, now director
of financial regulation studies at the Cato Institute, a
Washington research organization. “Even in Washington, a
Federal Reserve governor is, at best, D-list.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Rich Miller  in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  