-- Three Share 2010 Nobel Economic Prize
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   T o b y   A l d e r
-- 2010-10-11T14:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/diamond-mortensen-pissarides-win-economics-nobel-for-labor-market-theory.html
Peter A. Diamond ,  Dale Mortensen  and
 Christopher Pissarides  shared the 2010 Nobel Prize in Economic
Sciences for research into the difficulties of matching supply
and demand, particularly in the labor market.  “This year’s three laureates have formulated a theoretical
framework for search markets” such as ones where buyers look
for sellers and applicants look for jobs, the Royal Swedish
Academy of Sciences, which selects the winner, said today in
Stockholm.  Diamond, 70, is a Massachusetts Institute of Technology
professor and a candidate for the Federal Reserve Board whose
nomination has been held up by Senate Republicans. Pissarides,
62, teaches at the London School of Economics, and Mortensen,
71, is on the faculty at Northwestern University.  “These three guys have really changed the way people think
about the labor market,” said  Robert Solow , winner of the Nobel
Economics Prize in 1987 and professor emeritus at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in a telephone interview.
“Their work has been the foundation, the fundamental basis for
understanding flows through the labor market and the way they’re
influenced by things like” unemployment insurance benefits.  Explaining Conundrums  The research tries to explain such conundrums as how high
unemployment can be accompanied by a large number of job
openings. One conclusion is that more generous jobless benefits
lead to higher unemployment as those who are looking for work
take longer to find it, the academy said.  “The problem of unemployment is the major challenge facing
policy makers today after the worst recession since the Second
World War,” Professor  John Van Reenen , director of LSE’s Centre
for Economic Performance and a colleague of Pissarides, said in
a statement. The work of the Nobel Prize winners is
“fundamental to our analysis of aggregate unemployment and
business cycles.”  Diamond, a former teacher of Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
was nominated by President  Barack Obama  for a Fed governor’s
seat in April, subject to confirmation by the Senate. The
nomination was later returned to the White House because of
objections from at least one unidentified senator. Obama
resubmitted Diamond’s name on Sept. 13.  Richard Shelby , the senior Republican on the Banking
Committee, called Diamond a “skilled economist” while
questioning whether he has sufficient expertise in monetary
policy to be a Fed governor.  Exclamation Point  “This just puts an exclamation point to Senator Shelby,”
said Solow, 86, and a former teacher of Diamond. “He’s not just
depriving the Fed of a good nominee but of one of the world’s
half dozen best economists.”  Diamond’s research spans a wide range. His earliest work,
published in the 1960s, focused on the long-term effects of the
growing national debt on the economy.  In a paper written in 2005 with  Peter Orszag , who stepped
down as Obama’s budget director in July, Diamond argued that
Social Security’s long-term financial health could be restored
through modest cuts in benefits and tax increases.  They opposed then-President  George W. Bush ’s proposal to
establish individual retirement accounts under Social Security,
saying the system could be saved without radical reform.  Diamond has analyzed the effects of taxation on growth and
is considered a pioneer in the study of optimal taxation, which
has been applied to pricing by public utilities. His work has
also focused on the inter-generational impact of different
policies.  MIT Doctorate  Diamond studied mathematics at Yale University and received
his doctorate at MIT in 1963. He joined the MIT faculty in 1966
and headed the economics department in 1985 and 1986. Diamond
was named an Institute Professor, the university’s highest
honor, in 1997.  Pissarides, a native of Cyprus, made his reputation for his
work on job flows and unemployment. He related job creation to
the number of unemployed, the number of vacancies, and the
intensity with which workers look for jobs and companies recruit
applicants. The more eagerly job seekers look for work, the more
jobs companies are likely to offer because it will be easier to
fill them, according to Pissarides.  “I started immediately after graduating from university
focusing on the problems of unemployment, which was on the rise
back then in Europe continuously,” Pissarides said today in an
interview. “Our work can help tackle unemployment,” he said.
“If it becomes further known then it could influence policy
makers.”  Entry Barriers  His research ’’has shown how labor market regulations,
entry barriers to setting up new service firms, tax and welfare
policies affect differences in employment across the world,’’
Van Reenen said.  Pissarides received his bachelor’s and master’s degrees in
economics from the University of Essex and his doctorate from
LSE in 1973. After a brief stint in the research department at
the Central Bank of Cyprus in 1974, Pissarides entered academia
and has been an LSE professor since 1986.  He is also a research fellow at the Center for Economic
Policy Research in London and the Institute for the Study of
Labor in Bonn, as well as being a member of the Monetary Policy
Committee of the  Central Bank of Cyprus .  Mortensen, 71, received a bachelor’s degree in economics
from Willamette University in Salem, Oregon, in 1961 and a
doctorate in economics from Carnegie-Mellon University in
Pittsburgh in 1967.  Visiting Professor  A member of the faculty at Evanston, Illinois-based
Northwestern since 1965, Mortensen has also served as visiting
professor at the University of Essex in the United Kingdom,
Hebrew University in Jerusalem and Cornell University in Ithaca,
New York.  In his research, he found that labor-market rigidities can
cause unemployment as job-seekers look for the best work at the
highest pay. The intensity of that job search determines how
long workers stay unemployed and in turn can be affected by
changes in the level and duration of jobless benefits.  In seeking to explain why workers with similar skills end up
being paid differently, Mortensen focused on their lack of
knowledge of the wages being paid by all employers and on
differences in pay policy and productivity among firms.  He is a past president of the Society of Economic Dynamics
and one of the founding editors of the Review of Economic
Dynamics.  The work of Diamond, Mortensen and Pissarides “is
fundamental to modern thinking about unemployment,”  Lawrence Summers , director of President Barack Obama’s National Economic
Council, said in an e-mail.  As economics evolves, ’’their ideas will loom larger and
larger in thinking not just about labor markets, but housing
markets and many others,’’ added Summers, who is leaving the
administration to return to Harvard University as a professor at
the end of the year.  Alfred Nobel , the Swede who invented dynamite, in his will
in 1896 established awards for achievements in physics,
chemistry, medicine, peace and literature. The economics prize
was set up by Sweden’s central bank in 1968. Former winners
include  Milton Friedman ,  Amartya Sen  and  Friedrich August von Hayek .  The award’s official name is The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in
Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel. The money, 10
million kronor ($1.5 million), a gold medal and a diploma will
be handed out at a ceremony in Stockholm on Dec. 10, the
anniversary of Nobel’s death.  Indiana University professor  Elinor Ostrom  became the first
woman to win the  Nobel Economics Prize  last year when she
received it with  Oliver Williamson  of the University of
California at Berkeley for their work on the limits of markets
and how organizations work.  From 1969 to 2009, the Nobel Prize for economics was
awarded to 44 Americans, eight economists from the United
Kingdom, three Norwegians and two Swedes. Economists from
Germany, France, the Netherlands, India, Israel, Canada and the
former Soviet Union each won once.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rich Miller  in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
 Toby Alder  at 
 talder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwelllisz@bloomberg.net  