-- Dogs Who Look at the Bowl as Half-Empty Likely to Behave Badly, Study Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-10-11T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/dogs-who-look-at-the-bowl-as-half-empty-likely-to-behave-badly-study-says.html
As with people, some dogs always
expect the worst, according to research suggesting that
 pessimistic pups  are also more likely to have behavior problems.  The study of 24 dogs was reported today in the journal
 Current Biology.  The animals were trained to expect an empty
food bowl at one position in a room, and one with food at
another. When the vittles were placed elsewhere, some dogs ran
to the bowls and others ignored them, the researchers said.  That suggests the dogs had different expectations, the
researchers said. Those who didn’t go quickly to the bowls, the
pessimists, were also found to have behavior problems when left
alone. This included tearing up furniture or relieving
themselves indoors. While about a third of dogs have separation
anxiety, only the worst cases are treated, said  Emily Blackwell ,
an animal behaviorist at the University of Bristol in the U.K.  “We tried to come up with a way of measuring the dog’s
attitude,” said Blackwell, a study author, in a telephone
interview. Many owners “think the dog is trying to get revenge
by chewing up their slippers -- they don’t understand the dog is
anxious.”  There isn’t a connection between breed and misbehavior in
Blackwell’s previous research, she said. Instead, the dogs are
misbehaving because they weren’t trained at any early age to
know that being alone isn’t something to be concerned about. The
process of training a dog to know how to behave, called
socialization, is best done during puppyhood, Blackwell said.  Although later training can undo bad behavior, it requires
a great deal of work and effort, she said.  Training a puppy is important for dogs, said  Adam Goldfarb ,
the director of the Pets at Risk program for the  Humane Society
of the United States , based in Washington. Today’s study shows
that dogs who aren’t socialized well have a negative attitude
about life, he said. Goldfarb wasn’t involved in the study.  “This tells us something that isn’t reflected in the way
every dog is cared for,” Goldfarb said in a telephone
interview. “A dog who is being destructive is a dog whose needs
aren’t being met.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 