-- Dollar Trades Near 8-Month Low on Prospects of More Fed Easing
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-10-11T12:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/dollar-trades-near-8-month-low-on-prospects-of-more-federal-reserve-easing.html
The dollar traded near an eight-
month low against the euro on speculation that Federal Reserve
policy makers will this week signal their willingness to buy
more government debt to support economic growth.  The dollar touched a 15-year low versus the yen before
tomorrow’s release of minutes from the Fed’s Sept. 21 policy
meeting. The euro pared gains against the U.S. currency after
authorities failed to narrow differences over exchange-rate
policies at the International Monetary Fund’s annual meeting.  “Given there was little suggestion of coordination or
cooperation at the IMF meeting, the fact that the euro hasn’t
continued to go higher on the back of that suggests caution,”
said  Ian Stannard , a senior currency strategist at BNP Paribas
SA in London. “The euro may be a little overextended and we may
see a little bit of a correction set in from these levels.”  The U.S. currency was unchanged from Oct. 8 at $1.3939 per
euro as of 8:30 a.m. in New York. It fell to $1.4012 earlier
today and reached $1.4029 on Oct. 7, the weakest since Jan. 28.
The dollar traded at 81.89 yen, from 81.93 yen last week, after
earlier reaching 81.39 yen, the lowest level since April 1995.
The euro was little changed against yen at 114.16, from 114.19
yen. Financial markets in Japan and bond markets in the U.S. are
closed for public holidays today.  U.S. Data, Fed  U.S. employers cut payrolls by 95,000 workers in September
after a revised 57,000 decrease in August,  Labor Department 
figures in Washington showed on Oct. 8. The median forecast of
87 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 5,000
drop. The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly held at 9.6 percent.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Oct. 4 that the
central bank’s first round of large-scale asset purchases aided
the economy and that further quantitative easing, or QE, is
likely to help more.  “Since August, the Fed has been leaning towards more
quantitative easing measures to underpin the weakened U.S.
recovery,”  Philip Wee , a senior currency economist in Singapore
at DBS Group Holdings Ltd., wrote in a research note today. “We
have downgraded the outlook for the dollar.”  DBS lowered its year-end forecast for the dollar to trade
at $1.40 per euro from $1.28 previously, and to be at 83 yen
from 88 yen before, according to the note.  “Risk-taking appetite may be positive, given higher
equities and commodities,” said  Yusuke Tanaka , a senior dealer
at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in Singapore. “This is
probably a plus for the euro.”  Rally Predicted  The dollar’s biggest quarterly decline in eight years may
be setting the stage for a rally, according to BNP Paribas SA.  The  Dollar Index , which tracks the U.S. currency against
the euro, yen, pound, Canadian dollar, Swiss franc and Swedish
krona, slid 8.5 percent last quarter, the most since June 2002,
and 1.8 percent this month as Bernanke signaled he may inject
more money into the economy to ensure the recovery stays on
track. That new supply is reflected in exchange rates, based on
how the currency reacted to the last round of quantitative
easing.  “The market will find it has been selling the rumor and
will rush to buy the fact,” when the Fed begins fresh
purchases, said  Hans-Guenter Redeker , global head of currency
research in London. “Everybody sits in the same boat and is
heavily negative on the dollar. When too many people are sitting
in a boat it’s no longer safe.”  ‘Pain Trade’  Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show hedge funds
and other large speculators are more bearish on the dollar than
at any time in history, with bets on a decline exceeding those
on a rise by 341,683 contracts as of Oct. 5.  The last two times sentiment was close to this level, in
early 2008 and late 2009, the dollar rallied. The Dollar Index
surged as much as 24 percent in the second half of 2008 and 19.6
percent between November 2009 and June 2010.  “The pain trade now is any dollar-positive, or very likely
U.S. bond-market-negative, news,” Citigroup Inc. strategists
led by  Steven Englander  in New York wrote in an Oct. 7 report.
The strategists said they are still calling for dollar weakness.  The pound weakened against 12 of its 16 most-traded peers
before a measure of U.K. inflation is released tomorrow and as
investors speculate the Bank of England may restart its asset-
purchase program to bolster the economic recovery.  U.K. Consumer Prices  U.K. consumer  prices  rose by 3.1 percent in September from
a year earlier, according to the median estimate of 31
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The persistence of
accelerating inflation may exacerbate a split on the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee, where  Andrew Sentance  has
argued for an interest-rate increase to tame prices while other
officials such as  Adam Posen  say more stimulus may be needed.  The pound depreciated as much as 0.6 percent, and traded
0.2 percent weaker at 87.47 per euro, near a five-month low. It
weakened 0.1 percent against the dollar and yen, to $1.5943 and
130.65 yen respectively.  Gains in the yen were tempered on speculation that Japan
will intervene to stem the appreciation of its currency.  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said on Oct. 8
Group of Seven officials understand Japan’s position on the
yen’s gains and agreed that excessive foreign-exchange movements
are undesirable.  ‘No Official Criticism’  “There was no official criticism of Japan’s decision to
intervene in the foreign-exchange market by selling yen,” said
 Gareth Berry , a currency strategist at UBS AG in Singapore.
“This increases the chance of a further round of intervention
should the yen continue to appreciate.”  At the IMF’s meeting in Washington, governments tasked the
agency with calming the recent outbreak of tensions over
currencies amid signs they are already triggering a
protectionist backlash. Officials including U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Egyptian Finance Minister
 Youssef Boutros-Ghali  said Oct. 10 the lender should outline how
countries can expand their economies without damaging those of
other nations.  The dollar may decline this week as currency-market
“pressures” intensify after the IMF meeting, Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. said.  “Heightened dollar weakness, increased capital flows into
emerging markets, increased intervention (possibly from Japan as
well) and diversification will be the order of the day,”  Simon Derrick , the bank’s chief currency strategist in London, said
today in an e-mailed note.  “Battle lines” between the U.S. and China on currency
policy “are becoming ever more clearly defined,” Derrick
wrote, meaning “the likelihood of an agreement being reached by
early November seems very low.”  Aussie Retreat  The Australian dollar erased an earlier advance versus its
U.S. counterpart after China raised the deposit reserve ratio
for six banks by 50 basis points.  The so-called Aussie “dropped from the overnight high with
the rate announcement from China depressing demand,” analysts
at Lloyds Banking Group Plc, led by  Kenneth Broux  in London,
wrote in an e-mailed report.  Australia’s currency fell 0.1 percent to 98.43 U.S. cents.
The Aussie strengthened to 99.07 U.S. cents earlier after home-
loan  approvals  climbed for a second-straight month. It reached a
record 99.18 cents on Oct. 7, the highest level since it began
trading freely in 1983.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  