-- Dollar Weakness Leads Philippines to Consider Diversification of Reserves
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2010-10-11T07:09:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/dollar-weakness-leads-philippines-to-consider-diversification-of-reserves.html
The Philippine central bank is
considering ways of diversifying its record-high foreign-
exchange reserves as the dollar weakens, Governor  Amando Tetangco  said.  “In the face of possible further weakness in the U.S.
dollar, the central bank continues to assess investment
diversification options,” Tetangco said in an e-mailed reply to
questions late yesterday, without elaborating. He didn’t say
whether Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas is considering emerging-
market currencies such as China’s yuan.  The nation’s foreign-exchange  reserves  reached $53.5
billion at the end of September, rising $3.6 billion from the
previous month, boosted by government borrowing and the central
bank’s dollar purchases to stem gains in the peso. The
authorities are  building up the reserves  to shield the
Philippines from any potential risks and to build market
confidence, the governor said.  “Even as we are mindful that the inflows are likely to
continue, we prepare for risk aversion by building up
reserves,” Tetangco said in the e-mail from Washington, where
he attended the International Monetary Fund’s annual meeting.  The peso traded near a two-year high against the dollar.
The Dollar Index slid 8.5 percent last quarter, the most since
June 2002, and is down about 2.1 percent this month as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled he may inject more
money into the U.S. economy to support its recovery.  China’s Strategy  China may buy some emerging-market currencies as it seeks
to diversify its $2.5 trillion foreign reserves, central bank
governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said yesterday. China’s figure is the
world’s largest and surpassed $2 trillion last year.  Bank of Thailand plans to buy yuan-denominated bonds,
Assistant Governor  Suchada Kirakul  said Sept. 30. Malaysia’s
central bank has bought bonds denominated in the Chinese
currency, the Financial Times reported in September.  The Philippine central bank’s investments are guided by
requirements for liquidity, trade and debt service, “mindful of
the maturity and currency of obligations,” Tetangco said.  As of the end of March, 51.3 percent of the country’s $55.4
billion external debt was in dollars and 29.4 percent in
Japanese yen, according to a central bank  statement in June .  The government can tap the reserves for debt service,
Tetangco said.  Currency Controversy  Exchange rates dominated the IMF meeting on concern that
officials are relying on cheaper currencies to aid growth,
risking retaliatory devaluations and trade barriers.  Capital controls in other emerging-market economies may
affect flows to the Philippines, the governor said. Officials
may relax foreign-currency rules to encourage outflows,
Assistant Governor  Cyd Amador  said on Oct. 7.  “Our current regulatory environment is balanced, while our
monetary policy appropriate,” Tetangco said in his e-mail.
“These, together with a market-determined exchange rate, should
support our fair share of inflows” from  overseas remittances 
and portfolio investments, he said.  Tetangco said he will continue to engage counterparts in
the region to monitor flows so that “we are able to respond
swiftly to any further increases or sudden shifts in the
movement of capital.”  The Philippines isn’t “discounting the possibility of
sudden stops,” which could create exchange rate and asset price
volatility, the governor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clarissa Batino  in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  