-- Yen and Dollar Advance as Equities Decline, Spurring Demand for Safety
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-10-12T11:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/dollar-trades-near-15-year-low-against-yen-before-federal-reserve-minutes.html
The  yen  and the dollar strengthened
as stocks declined, weighing on investors’ appetite for risk and
boosting demand for the perceived safety of the Japanese and
U.S. currencies.  The dollar advanced versus all but two of its most actively
traded peers. The  MSCI World Index  dropped 0.7 percent, and
futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  fell 0.6 percent
before the release of the minutes of the Federal Open Market
Committee’s September meeting. The yen approached a 15-year high
against the dollar and rose to its strongest this month versus
the euro. The 16-nation single currency fell for a second day
against the dollar, pulling back from near its strongest level
since January.  “It’s a risk-off day with equities lower, which benefits
the yen and the dollar,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “We
expect the dollar to pare its recent weakness which has been, in
our eyes, excessive.”  The yen strengthened 0.5 percent to 113.27 against the euro
as of 6:47 a.m. in New York. It climbed as high as 113.01 per
euro earlier today, the most since Sept. 30. The Japanese
currency was little changed at 81.99 per dollar, from 82.07 in
New York yesterday, when it appreciated to 81.39 per dollar, the
strongest level since April 1995.  The dollar advanced 0.4 percent to $1.3815 per euro. The
16-nation currency reached $1.4029 on Oct. 7, the most since
Jan. 28.  ‘Recent Strength’  “The euro’s giving up some recent strength as the market’s
paring back its expectation of how aggressive the Fed could be
at its November meeting,” Hardman said. “The price action
reinforces our belief that an aggressive form of quantitative
easing is nearly fully priced in the markets.”  The dollar strengthened against high-yielding currencies,
including those of Australia and Norway amid concern China’s
growth will cool as the government boosted reserve requirements
for six lenders. The greenback rose 0.4 percent to 98.03 cents
per Australian dollar after trading as low as 99.18 cents on
Oct. 7, the weakest since Australia’s exchange controls ended in
1983. The Norwegian krone fell 0.8 percent to 5.8929 per dollar.  A technical indicator suggests the euro’s 9 percent gain in
the past month has been too rapid, according to Ueda Harlow Ltd.  The shared currency’s 14-day relative strength index
against the dollar fell to 68 today, slipping below 70, a level
some traders see as a sign an asset’s price is poise to change
direction, for the first time since Sept. 27. That snapped the
longest stretch above 70 since March 2008.  Concern About Risk  “Given the euro has gained at a fast pace and reached
$1.40, there will be some selling,” said  Toshiya Yamauchi , a
senior currency analyst in Tokyo at Ueda Harlow. “The euro may
fall to about $1.35.”  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said yesterday that low
interest rates may give firms the incentive to engage in
excessive risk-taking. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Oct.
4 the central bank’s first round of large-scale asset purchases
aided the economy and more quantitative easing may help further.  “A number of Fed governors have questioned the need for
more quantitative easing and there will be somewhat of a
debate,” said  Richard Grace , chief currency strategist in
Sydney at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the nation’s largest
lender. “The risk is that we see a short-term bounce in the
U.S. dollar.”  New York Fed President William Dudley and Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  have voiced support for more purchases,
while Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser and Dallas Fed
President  Richard Fisher  have said such actions may not work.  Dollar Shorts  Robert Rennie , head of currency research in Sydney at
Westpac Banking Corp. recommended investors take “partial
profits” on positions that benefit from a decline in the
greenback. Markets risk disappointment “given the  level of
negativity  toward the U.S. dollar,” he said.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show hedge funds
and other large speculators are more bearish on the dollar than
at any time in history, with bets on a decline exceeding those
on a rise by 341,683 contracts as of Oct. 5.  “You still want to hold some dollar shorts because the
fundamentals are clearly negative,” Rennie said. A short
position is a bet an asset’s price will fall.  Policy makers will announce more bond purchases at next
month’s FOMC meeting, helping the U.S. avoid the “very bad”
outcome of a renewed recession, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  Debt Purchases  The central bank is likely to announce about $500 billion
of Treasury purchases through the spring or summer of 2011 and
indicate they are ready to buy more, New York-based  Jan Hatzius ,
chief U.S. economist at Goldman Sachs, said in an e-mailed note.
The Fed may need to hold interest rates at current levels until
2015 or later, he wrote.  Interest-rate futures contracts on the Chicago Board of
Trade showed a 34 percent chance U.S. policy makers would cut
the target lending rate to zero by January. The probability was
23 percent a month ago. The key U.S. rate has been at a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The yen earlier fell by as much as 0.4 percent against the
dollar after Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said his
government is ready to take bold action on currencies, including
intervention.  Noda said today he told counterparts of the Group of Seven
industrialized nations that Japan intervened on Sept. 15 because
the yen’s advance didn’t reflect economic fundamentals. The yen-
selling operations, the first since 2004, weren’t aimed at a
specific exchange level, he said in parliament.  “Investors remain cautious about intervention when the
dollar-yen dips toward 82,” said  Daisaku Ueno , Tokyo-based
president at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a unit of
Japan’s largest currency margin company.  Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  said last
month that the Ministry of Finance “seems to think” that the
82-yen level against the dollar needs to be defended.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  