-- Dollar Weakness Overstates Fed as IMF Sees G-3 Growth
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   B o   N i e l s e n
-- 2010-10-11T16:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/dollar-weakness-overstates-fed-printing-press-as-imf-sees-best-g-3-growth.html
The dollar’s biggest quarterly
 decline  in eight years may be setting the stage for a rally, if
some of Wall Street’s top strategists are to be believed.  The Dollar Index slid 8.5 percent last quarter, the most
since June 2002, and 1.6 percent this month as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled he may inject more money into
the economy to ensure the recovery stays on track. That new
supply is reflected in exchange rates, based on how the currency
 reacted  to the last round of so-called quantitative easing, say
HSBC Holdings Plc, BNP Paribas SA and Nordea Bank AB.  “The market will find it has been selling the rumor and
will rush to buy the fact,” when the Fed begins fresh
purchases, said  Hans-Guenter Redeker , global head of currency
research in London at BNP Paribas. “Everybody sits in the same
boat and is heavily negative the dollar. When too many people
are sitting in a boat it’s no longer safe.”  U.S. growth will exceed that of the 16-nation euro region
by almost 1 percentage point this year and next, the
International Monetary Fund in Washington forecast last week.
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. says Fed  purchases  may be as
low as $500 billion, less than 30 percent of the $1.725 trillion
bought last year.  No ‘Shock and Awe’  “The economic data hasn’t deteriorated to such an extent
that they need to implement such an aggressive shock and awe
approach,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist in London at
Bank of Tokyo, who predicts the Fed will buy about $600 billion
of bonds. “Positioning and sentiment are certainly suggesting
that dollar pessimism is quite extreme.”  Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show hedge funds
and other large speculators are more bearish on the dollar than
at any time in history, with  bets  on a decline exceeding those
on a rise by 341,683 contracts as of Oct. 5.  The last two times sentiment was close to this level, in
early 2008 and late 2009, the dollar rallied. The Dollar Index,
which tracks the greenback against the euro, yen, pound,
Canadian dollar, Swiss franc and Swedish krona, surged as much
as 24 percent in the second half of 2008 and 19.6 percent
between November 2009 and June 2010.  “The pain trade now is any dollar-positive, or very likely
U.S. bond-market-negative, news,” Citigroup Inc. strategists
led by  Steven Englander  in New York wrote in an Oct. 7 report.
The strategists said they are still calling for dollar weakness.  Dollar Estimates  Strategists had already capitulated on calls for a stronger
dollar. At the start of the year, the median estimate of more
than 40 estimates was for the greenback to end 2010 at $1.45. By
July, the forecast was $1.18, before ending last week at $1.32
as the euro gained, Bloomberg data show.  Speculation the Fed will buy bonds rose on Oct. 8, as
traders drove two- and five-year Treasury yields to record lows
and the dollar to its weakest level in 15 years against the yen,
after a Labor Department report showed the U.S. lost more jobs
last month than forecast.  Since climbing to this year’s high of 88.708 on June 7,
IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index has tumbled 12.4
percent to 77.456 as of 12:51 p.m. in New York. It fell 14.6
percent from March 17, 2009, the day before the Fed said it
would buy $300 billion of Treasuries and step up mortgage-bond
purchases, through Nov. 25 last year.  The greenback traded at $1.4029 to the euro last week, its
weakest level since late January, before closing at $1.3939 in
New York. Against the yen, it finished the week at 81.93, down
from this year’s high of 94.99 in May, and today reached a 15-
year low of 81.39.  ‘Priced In’  “Quantitative easing seems to be priced in already,” said
 David Bloom , global head of currency strategy at HSBC in London,
who has predicted since the start of June the euro would end the
year at $1.35, from about $1.22 at the time. “Three months ago
investors were bailing out of the euro, and now they’re all
scrambling to buy it back.”  Bernanke has said Fed purchases support growth by lowering
borrowing costs as investors use the money they get by selling
Treasuries to buy securities including mortgage bonds and
corporate notes. Policy makers will probably announce an initial
program to buy about $100 billion of Treasuries a month,
according to  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of currency
research at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York.  “The U.S. is putting a lot more pressure on monetary
policy than the other major central banks, and that’s hurting
the dollar,” said  Thomas Stolper , a London-based economist for
Goldman Sachs, who expects the Fed’s bond purchase program to
total at least $1 trillion.  The dollar risks further depreciation as long as investors
are unsure about the plans, said  Dale Thomas , head of currencies
in London at Insight Investment Management Ltd., which oversees
about $144 billion.  ‘Under Pressure’  “The Fed doesn’t know how much it will end up buying and
the market doesn’t know, and that’s making people nervous,”
said Thomas. “Until the announcement of what we’ll get, the
dollar will be under pressure.”  Interest rates favor the euro for international investors
looking for an alternative to record low yields in the U.S. Two-
year German notes  yielded  about 0.45 percentage point more than
Treasuries last week, the most this year.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said in an interview with CNBC on Oct. 8 that the chance of a
renewed recession has receded and there may not be a strong
enough case for additional stimulus. The next Fed meeting on
Nov. 2-3 will be a “tough call,” he said.  IMF Outlook  While the Labor Department said Oct. 8 that the economy
lost 95,000 jobs in September, consumer spending in the U.S.
rose more than forecast in August as incomes climbed, data from
the Commerce Department in Washington showed on Oct. 1.  The IMF said Oct. 6 that the U.S. economy will expand 2.6
percent this year and 2.3 percent in 2011, compared with 1.7
percent and 1.5 percent for the euro region, and 2.8 percent and
1.5 percent in Japan.  “The next round of Fed easing is already priced into the
dollar,” said  Niels Christensen , Copenhagen-based chief
currency strategist at Nordea, the top euro-dollar forecaster in
the six quarters through June. “The dollar will start to
rebound as the U.S. economy improves, while the ECB remains
reluctant to pull the trigger on further easing.”  The euro’s strength may start to wane as austerity measures
from Greece to Spain weigh on growth. European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  urged governments last week to cut
their budget deficits and signaled he won’t slow the exit from
emergency stimulus measures. Exports from Germany fell for a
second month in August as a rising euro curbed demand, data from
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden showed on Oct. 8.  No ‘Big Bang’  “The euro appears to be too strong today,” Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said in a speech in
Washington on Oct. 8 as finance ministers convened for annual
meetings with the IMF.  Global finance chiefs tasked the Washington-based
institution with calming the recent outbreak of tensions over
currencies amid signs they are triggering a protectionist
backlash. Japan sold the yen last month for the first time since
2004 to curb its gains. Currency intervention has returned to
the fore as countries from China to Brazil try to restrain their
exchange rates to protect exports.  Investors who are counting on a “big bang” announcement
from the Fed at its next policy meeting may be disappointed,
according to Nomura’s Nordvig. When the central bank announced
its first program it was trying to calm markets and stem a six-
month, 34 percent plunge in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , he
said. The S&P 500’s 4.5 percent gain this year means there’s
less scope for dollar selling.  “It’s not going to be this big-bang announcement like last
year,” Nordvig said. “Now it’s really the same as a fully
priced rate cut.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Bo Nielsen  in Copenhagen at 
 bnielsen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  