-- Eastern U.S. Temperatures May Drop Below Normal in Last Two Weeks of Month
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-10-11T18:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/eastern-u-s-temperatures-may-drop-below-normal-in-last-two-weeks-of-month.html
The last two weeks of October may
see temperatures in the eastern U.S. drop to below normal,
forecasters said.  The forecast for Oct. 18 to Oct. 24 calls for below-normal
temperatures from Texas to Maine, according to the U.S.  Climate
Prediction Center  in Camp Springs, Maryland.  The cold snap may extend into November, said  Jim Rouiller ,
senior energy meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn,
Pennsylvania.  “There is a chance of a major pattern change in the later
half of the month,” Rouiller said. “The potential is there for
a significant cold-weather event.”  A cold snap may drive up the price of natural gas, used for
heating. Moderate temperatures, a lack of hurricanes in the main
production areas of the Gulf of Mexico and surplus inventories
have helped drive natural gas prices down 35 percent this year.  Natural gas for November delivery fell 2.6 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $3.625 per million British thermal units at 12:24
p.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  “We have a huge production overhead, very little weather-
related demand and an unemployment number on Friday that was
very uninspiring,” said  Mike Rose , the director of energy
trading for Angus Jackson Inc. in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.  A number of factors, including a strong La Nina, are
pointing to a cooling for the U.S. East Coast, which will be
felt the most in the Middle Atlantic states south, said  David Streit , senior lead forecaster with the  Commodity Weather Group
LLC  in Bethesda, Maryland. La Nina, a cooling of the Pacific
Ocean, sometimes lowers temperatures in the U.S. Northeast.  “We’ve got to have a frost one of these days,” Streit
said. He said temperatures may sink into the 30s Fahrenheit,
below normal lows in the 40s.  In addition to the long-term cold, a large storm is
expected to bring heavy rain and cold winds to much of the U.S.
Northeast at the end of this week, Rouiller said.  “This is looking very intense,” Rouiller said. “A
typical winter-type storm that will produce a lot of rain and
cold winds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  