-- EDF Said to Back Sale of Constellation as Relationship Sours
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2010-10-12T21:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/edf-is-said-to-support-sale-of-constellation-energy-as-relationship-sours.html
Electricite de France SA , the
largest shareholder in Constellation Energy Group Inc., would
support the sale of the company as relations between the
partners sour, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  EDF, which rejected inquiries about a sale in the past few
months, has reversed its thinking amid a dispute over its joint
venture with the Baltimore-based company, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. While
EDF would like a change of control or new management at
 Constellation , it won’t actively pursue a sale, the person said.  The shift by Paris-based EDF may prompt takeover interest,
and a new owner could salvage the companies’ partnerships, said
the person. EDF owns about 8.4 percent of Constellation and
holds a  board seat  after it entered into a $4.5 billion deal two
years ago to acquire half of the company’s nuclear assets. The
deal prevented an acquisition by MidAmerican Energy Holdings
Co., a unit of  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  It’s not clear a bidder for Constellation will emerge, in
which case EDF would have to find another way to repair a
deteriorating situation. Relations between the two worsened when
Constellation said Oct. 9 that it was abandoning negotiations on
a $7.5 billion loan guarantee for their joint venture’s Maryland
reactor because it creates too much risk. The two sides are also
in dispute over a $2 billion put option on non-nuclear plants.  EDF Group Senior Vice President  Thomas Piquemal  and
Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley , a Democrat who is running
against Republican predecessor Robert Ehrlich, met today to
discuss ways to salvage the loan guarantee application for
expansion of the Calvert Cliffs nuclear plant in the state after
Constellation withdrew from the process last week.  “The governor offered to do whatever he could to move the
project forward,” Kelly Sullivan, a U.S.-based spokesman for
EDF, said in an e-mailed statement. No one from Constellation
attended the meeting, she said. She declined to comment on
whether EDF proposed a buyout of Constellation or its stake in
nuclear ventures with EDF.  The meeting was first reported by the Baltimore Sun.  Shaun Adamec , O’Malley’s press secretary, didn’t immediately return a
phone call asking about the meeting.  ‘Clean Exit’  “A clean exit out of the U.S. would be our preferred
option for EDF,” Sofia Savvantidou, a Citigroup Inc.  analyst ,
wrote in a note to clients. “This breakdown in relationship
might be the trigger.”  EDF shares fell as much 3.4 percent to 30.34 euros in Paris
today. They traded at 30.56 euros at 3:42 p.m. local time. The
stock has declined 27 percent this year, compared with a 5.1
percent drop in the benchmark CAC 40 index.  Constellation rose 6 cents to $32.36 at 9:47 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  EDF , which already took a provision of 1.1 billion euros
($1.5 billion) this year related to its Constellation holding,
may further write down the value of U.S. assets “if an exit
strategy is engineered,” according to Savvantidou.  A spokeswoman for EDF and a spokesman for Constellation
declined to comment.  EDF is fighting the option  Constellation  has to force it to
buy non-nuclear plants for as much as $2 billion, people
familiar with the situation said last month. EDF has told
Constellation it would view the exercise of the put option as a
hostile move that would jeopardize their venture, the people
said.  Scaling Back  Henri Proglio , EDF’s chief executive officer who took over
last year, has been scaling back his predecessor’s international
expansion plans to reduce debt. In July, Proglio agreed to sell
EDF’s U.K. power networks for 5.8 billion pounds ($9.2 billion)
to a group led by  Li Ka-shing ’s Cheung Kong Infrastructure
Holdings Ltd.  Constellation and EDF created the UniStar Nuclear Energy
venture in 2007 for as many as four nuclear reactors at the
Calvert Cliffs plant in Maryland, and in New York. At the time,
EDF’s former CEO, Pierre Gadonneix, was seeking to develop and
operate 10 reactors around the world by 2020.  “Interest in EDF’s portion of the joint venture will be
robust,”  Dorothea Matthews , an analyst at CreditSights Inc.
analyst, wrote in a research note.  Dominion Resources Inc. ,  Duke Energy Corp. , Entergy Corp.,
Exelon Corp., MidAmerican, NextEra Energy Inc., NRG Energy Inc.,
Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. and Sempra Energy were
mentioned as possible acquirers of the stake by Matthews.  “While we do not comment on market rumor or speculation,
we have been clear that we do not plan on acquiring merchant
assets,” Dominion spokesman  Ryan Frazier  said.  Spokesmen at Duke and Entergy declined to comment, as did a
spokeswoman from MidAmerican.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 