-- Hedge Funds Pulled In $11.3 Billion in August, Highest Level in Six Months
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2010-10-11T22:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/hedge-funds-pulled-in-11-3-billion-in-august-highest-level-in-six-months.html
Hedge funds received net deposits in
August of $11.3 billion, the largest since February, as
investors increased their appetite for risk, according to
 TrimTabs Investment Research  and BarclayHedge Ltd.  Emerging-market, fixed-income and macro funds, whose
managers seek to profit from global themes or trends, took in
the most cash, the research firms said today in a report.
Emerging-market funds received $2.5 billion, fixed-income funds
got $2.3 billion and the macro category took in $2.1 billion.  “August was a down month but people are coming in because
the fear is disappearing,”  Sol Waksman , president of Fairfield,
Iowa-based BarclayHedge, said in a telephone interview.  Hedge funds, with worldwide assets of $1.6 trillion, lost
an average of 0.3 percent in August and gained 1.7 percent in
the year’s first eight months, according to the report. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  of large U.S. stocks lost 4.5
percent in August and 4.6 percent in the eight-month period.  Hedge funds that have more than $2 billion in assets under
management received 80 percent of the August cash, said  Vincent Deluard , global equity strategist in New York for Sausalito,
California-based TrimTabs.  “I would caution that the money only goes to the big
guys,” Deluard said in an interview. “Good, established funds
are doing quite well, but smaller funds, the ones that rely on
fund of hedge funds to get money, have been struggling a lot.”  The deposits came after investors withdrew a net $1.7
billion in July, according to the research firms.  Fixed-Income Gains  Fixed-income funds rose 8.2 percent this year, the best
performance of any strategy, and 1 percent in August. TrimTabs
and BarclayHedge collected data from 1,124 funds.  Thirty-seven percent of hedge-fund managers and commodity-
trading advisers were bearish on the S&P 500 while 31 percent
were bullish, TrimTabs and BarclayHedge found in a separate
survey taken Sept. 15-21, the firms said today. There were 109
respondents with assets under management averaging $127 million.  Thirty-six percent of managers were bearish on the U.S.
dollar, while 21 percent were bullish. Twenty-seven percent of
managers were bearish on the  10-year Treasury  note, the most
since May, while 24 percent were bullish.  “There’s tremendous concern: how much more is there in the
bond-market rally?” Waksman said. “Stocks have stopped paying
dividends; that is a significant portion of stock returns over
the long term. Where are you going to go? Commodities,
alternatives, hedge funds.”  Hedge funds are loosely regulated private pools of capital
whose managers can bet on rising and falling securities prices
and take a share of investment profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  