-- Egypt's Garranah Sees More Than 17% Increase in Tourism Revenue This Year
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2010-10-11T12:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/egypt-s-garranah-sees-more-than-17-increase-in-tourism-revenue-this-year.html
Egypt, home to the Pyramids of Giza,
expects revenue from tourism to increase more than 17 percent
this year as the world’s economy shakes off the impact of the
financial crisis, Tourism Minister  Zoheir Garranah  said.  Receipts from tourism may reach between $12.6 billion and
$13 billion “if things go as planned as far as future
reservations are concerned,” Garranah said in an interview at
his Cairo office on Oct. 7. In 2009, revenue was $10.8 billion.  “We are working a hundred times harder now than before”
the crisis in 2008, Garranah said, listing the unexpected shocks
that the industry had endured in the past year such as the
European debt crisis and Iceland’s volcanic eruption.  Tourism accounts for 12.6 percent of jobs in Egypt,
according to the ministry.  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE , an Egyptian
investment bank, expects tourism revenue to be $12.2 billion
this year, while investment bank CI Capital has a forecast of
about $12 billion.  Together with foreign direct investments and revenue from
the Suez Canal, tourism helped the economy of the most populous
Arab country expand at an average annual rate of 7 percent in
the three fiscal years through June 2008. Economic growth slowed
down to 4.7 percent in the year through June 2009 before picking
up in the following 12 months to 5.3 percent.  Besides its historical attractions, Egypt also draws
tourists seeking sun, sand and sea along its Red Sea coast and
in the Sinai Peninsula. Russia is the biggest source of tourists
to Egypt, followed by countries such as the U.K., Italy, France,
Ukraine and Poland.  Right Ingredients  “We are on the right track as far as infrastructure is
concerned,” Garranah, born in 1959, said. “We have the proper
product and the diversity of nature.”  The government has been upgrading airports across the
country to accommodate more arrivals and the minister said
212,000 hotel rooms are under construction to double existing
capacity within the next five years.  Kamel Abu Ali, the owner of Egypt’s Albatros group of
resorts, said in February that he was preparing an initial
public offering in 2011 to double the number of rooms his
company operates to 12,000.  Talaat Moustafa Group Holding ,
Egypt’s biggest real estate developer, plans to open two more
properties operated by Four Seasons Hotels Inc. in the ancient
city of Luxor and its Madinaty development on the outskirts of
Cairo.  In 2011, Egypt aims to attract more than 16 million
tourists, generating more than $14 billion in revenue, Garranah
said. “Everything is rebounding back,” he said. “If the
crisis hadn’t occurred in 2008, we would have been already at 16
million tourists now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 