-- Heigl’s Surprise Baby; Gemma’s Nose Job; Suicidal Teen: Movies
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-10-11T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/heigl-s-surprise-baby-gemma-s-nose-job-suicidal-teen-movies.html
Suicidal New York teenager Craig
Gilner checks himself into a hospital psych ward, hoping for a
quick fix to his adolescent problems in “ It’s Kind of a Funny
Story .”  The title is an apt description of Craig’s five-day,
mental-health adventure in this appealing dramedy from the
filmmaking team of Ryan Fleck and Anna Boden, who previously
made the highly praised “Half Nelson” and “Sugar.”  While films such as “ One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest ”
have also coaxed laughs from mental asylums, few have done so in
such a gentle humanistic way. It’s hard to imagine anyone being
offended by a movie that has such affection for its off-kilter
characters.  Keir Gilchrist, best known as the gay son in TV’s “ United
States of Tara ,” plays the troubled 16-year-old who ends up in
the adult ward because the youth facility is temporarily closed.
There he meets a collection of zany patients, including a phobic
Egyptian who never leaves his room, a Hasidic Jew who can hear a
pin drop 100 yards away and Bobby (Zach Galifianakis), an
aimless father who can’t cope with life outside the hospital.  Bobby starts out as Craig’s mentor, explaining things like
the arcane points system that rewards patients with special
privileges. But the roles are soon reversed when Craig helps
nervous Bobby prepare for an interview that will determine
whether he’s released into a group home.  Scarred Face  Craig also bonds with Noelle (Emma Roberts), a self-
mutilating teenager with a scarred cheek, while still harboring
a crush on his best buddy’s girlfriend (Zoe Kravitz).  Fleck and Boden delicately balance the grim and light-
hearted aspects of the story. Along with delusional patients and
talk of suicide, there’s a joyous pizza party and a dream
sequence where Craig performs as a punk rocker.  Gilchrist emits a sweet innocence and Galifianakis, who had
a breakout role in “The Hangover,” shows he can handle drama
as well as comedy.  “It’s Kind of a Funny Story,” from Focus Features, is
playing across the U.S. Rating: ***  ‘Tamara Drewe’  “ Tamara Drewe ” may be the best advertisement for nose
jobs I’ve ever seen.  In  Stephen Frears ’s new movie, Gemma Arterton (“Quantum of
Solace”), plays a former ugly duckling whose new schnoz
transforms her into a beauty. When she returns to the bucolic
English village where she grew up, Tamara’s allure triggers a
three-man pursuit for her affections -- a celebrity novelist
(Roger Allam), a handsome handyman (Luke Evans) and a
narcissistic rock drummer (Dominic Cooper).  This modern version of “Far From the Madding Crowd” is
based on Posy Simmonds’s graphic novel, a comic-strip
compilation in turn inspired by Thomas Hardy’s novel.  Small-town jealousies and gossip, much of it fueled by a
couple of bored teenagers (Charlotte Christie and Jessica
Barden), bolster the humorous tone. Still, this comedy of
manners is ultimately as artificial as Tamara’s nose.  “Tamara Drewe,” from Sony Pictures Classics, is playing
in New York and Los Angeles. Rating: **  ‘We Know It’  In “ Life as We Know It ,”  Katherine Heigl  plays a smart,
gorgeous and successful single woman who meets an obnoxious guy.
They fuss and feud before eventually falling in love.  If that sounds familiar, it’s because that plot would also
describe three of Heigl’s other romantic comedies: “27
Dresses,” “The Ugly Truth” and “Knocked Up.” Heigl appears
to be stuck in a rom-com version of “Groundhog Day,” reliving
the same movie over and over.  There isn’t one surprising or original moment in this
latest film, in which she’s a cafe owner whose life is turned
upside down when her best friends, a couple with a baby
daughter, are killed in a car accident. She and Eric (Josh
Duhamel), an aspiring TV sports director with whom she once had
a disastrous date, are named as the child’s guardians in the
will and are forced to live together as replacement parents.  What follows is a series of lame jokes about baby poop,
Eric’s playboy lifestyle and hash brownies, leading to the
inevitable ending. The problem with “Life as We Know It” is
that we know it all before it even begins.  “Life as We Know It,” from Warner Bros. Pictures, is
playing across the U.S. Rating: *1/2  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 