-- Television Blackouts in U.S. Reach Decade-High Over Fee Fights
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-10-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/television-blackouts-in-u-s-reach-decade-high-after-fights-over-fees.html
TV blackouts in the U.S. have
reached the highest level in a decade and may climb as pay-TV
operators fight higher fees sought by content providers.  Disputes over fees have caused five blackouts this year,
the most since 2000. They have affected about 19 million
pay-TV subscribers, leaving some viewers without access to the
Oscars and New York Knicks games. Dish Network Corp.,
 Cablevision Systems Corp.  and AT&T Inc. all lost programming
while haggling over costs.  Feuds will escalate as pay-TV companies resist the
increased fees they typically try to pass on to subscribers in
the form of higher cable bills, said  Rich Greenfield , an analyst
at BTIG LLC in New York.  “There is increasing pressure for distributors to push
back on rate hikes in a tough economy where the consumer is
struggling,” Greenfield said in an interview. “As programming
costs continue to rise, these battles are becoming bigger and
higher profile.”  Content expenses, which total about half of pay-TV
companies’  operating costs , have increased about 10 percent in
the past year, putting pressure on profit margins. Cable bills
climbed about 8 percent on average for the year ended in June,
according to researcher SNL Kagan.  ‘American Idol’  Cablevision and Dish are currently negotiating with  News
Corp.  over fees for Fox, the home of shows such as “Glee” and
“American Idol.” Cablevision’s contract with News Corp. ends
on Oct. 15, and Dish’s expires on Nov. 1. If agreements can’t be
made by then, Fox could go dark on both carriers.  “It would be terrible business practice to allow any
distributor to secure a signal without a valid contract,” Fox
said in a statement. “If a provider were to decide to pass on a
reasonable offer -- one that was consistent with our other
distribution agreements -- then legally they could not re-sell
our signal to their subscribers.”  High unemployment and stagnating wages are threatening the
consumer’s willingness to pay steeper prices for television
services, especially when there’s cheaper alternatives such as
Web video and movie-rental provider  Netflix Inc. , said  Chris Marangi , an analyst at Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York.  “Cable and satellite operators are losing their pricing
power,” Marangi said in an interview. “To the extent that
there are cheaper alternatives and the economy remains weak, it
gets harder and harder to pass along these price increases.”  Premium Prices  Content providers, including Burbank, California-based  Walt
Disney Co. , are further aggravating pay-TV companies by offering
shows for free on competitive platforms such as  Hulu.com , while
making distributors pay premium prices for the same programming.  “The idea that the programmers, who are charging more for
their programming, are then taking that programming and making
it free on the Internet -- that really pushes the envelope,”
 Jim Dolan , chief executive officer of Bethpage, New York-based
Cablevision, said at an investor conference Sept. 16.  This month,  News Corp.’s  Fox cut its broadcast signal of 19
local sports channels, FX and National Geographic, to Dish
subscribers because of a dispute over rate increases. Disney’s
WABC-TV pulled its signal to Cablevision customers in March,
leaving 3 million homes in the New York without access to the
first 13 minutes of the Academy Awards telecast.  “In tough economic times we need to take a tougher stance
against programmers to be able to provide the best prices out
there for our customers,” Dave Shull, senior vice president of
programming for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish, said in an
interview. “The DNA of our company is low prices -- we can’t
let these costs continue to escalate.”  A La Carte Pricing  The public, high-profile disputes don’t serve the industry
well because they can backfire and prompt discussions in
Washington about potential a la carte pricing, according to
 David Joyce , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  A la carte pricing is a concept that allows consumers to
pay for channels individually. Studies show that such a model
would limit choices and raise prices, not benefiting the
television operator, content provider, or consumer, Joyce said
in an interview.  Still, cable companies and satellite distributors are
trying to push programmers to allow them to cobble together
smaller, cheaper options for their customers.  Time Warner Cable
Inc. , the second-largest cable operator, has been championing
the idea to sell less costly packages of fewer channels to lure
economically strapped consumers.  Broad Distribution  “We’ve expressed an interest in having smaller packages,”
 Rob Marcus , Time Warner Cable’s chief financial officer, said at
an investor conference on Sept. 16. “The reality is that our
programming vendors have a different interest, which is having
the broadest possible carriers they can.”  Less popular channels are often carried by a distributor
because they have been tied-in as part of deal with a more
popular network. That way, both channels can get broad
distribution and produce higher advertising revenue for the
programmer. The distributor must carry the less-watched channel
in order to get the popular station and can’t strip it out of
their packages without losing both.  In addition to raising prices on cable channels, content
owners are now also asking distributors to pay for broadcast
channels that were previously free. Companies such as News Corp.
used to provide their broadcast channels for free in order to
gain distribution for new cable channels, like FX.  Lobbying Group  Chase Carey , the president and chief operating officer at
New York-based News Corp., said this year that he thinks Fox is
worth $5 a month given its sports programming and prime-time
hits like “American Idol.” That would top the most expensive
channel on the dial, Disney’s ESPN, which brings in $4.08 for
each subscriber, according to  SNL Kagan .  The dispute has made its way to Washington. Many of the
country’s biggest pay-TV operators, including Time Warner Cable,
have signed a petition to the U.S. Federal Communications
Commission for the government to require, among other things,
stations to keep sending a signal as long as the negotiations
continue in good faith. They have also formed a lobbying group
called the  American Television Alliance  to push for
Congressional action.  Broadcasters say Washington shouldn’t intervene.  Nearly all carriage negotiations conclude without service
disruptions, “and despite the overheated rhetoric coming from
pay TV providers, there is no reason to believe that won’t be
the case going forward,”  Dennis Wharton , spokesman for the
National Association of Broadcasters, said in an e-mail.  “Pay-TV operators will have less incentive to engage in
meaningful talks for carriage of broadcast TV stations if
government regulators inject themselves into these marketplace
discussions,” Wharton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 