-- Mapletree Industrial Said to Raise $654 Million in Stock Offer
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-10-11T04:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/temasek-s-mapletree-industrial-said-to-raise-654-million-in-stock-offer.html
Mapletree Industrial Trust ,
controlled by Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte, is set to raise
S$853 million ($654 million) in an initial public offering, two
people with knowledge of the matter said.  The real estate investment trust is selling 917.5 million
shares at 93 Singapore cents apiece, the people said, requesting
anonymity because the pricing hasn’t been publicly announced.
Mapletree, owned by the real estate unit of Singapore’s state
investment company, had marketed the units at 88 Singapore cents
to 93 Singapore cents.  Mapletree Industrial is raising money to repay debts and
buy properties in Singapore as a revival in the city-state’s
 economy  drives rents higher. Temasek, which oversees S$186
billion, joins Government of Singapore Investment Corp. in
taking assets public this month after the benchmark index  rose
12 percent last quarter .  “The outlook for industrial properties is positive in
Singapore,” said  Anni Kum , a Singapore-based analyst at Kim Eng
Securities Pte. Ltd. “Rentals are recovering, capital values
have stabilized and the yield is higher than comparables.”  Mapletree Industrial’s distribution yield, a measure of
return on investment, is projected to be 7.6 percent from the
Oct. 21 listing date to March 31, 2011, based on the 93
Singapore cents offer price, according to the company’s IPO
prospectus.  The comparable yield for  Ascendas Real Estate Investment
Trust , a Singapore industrial landlord, is 6.5 percent for the
12 months to ending March 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  IPO Revival  Industrial rents in Singapore are expected to rise
“gradually” as the increase in supply will be below the 10-
year average gain in demand in the next two years, real estate
adviser DTZ said in a report published last month.  Mapletree Industrial’s sale adds to a recovery in IPOs in
Asia outside Japan, where the value of first-time offers jumped
to $37 billion in the first nine months from $20 billion a year
earlier, according to Bloomberg data.  GIC, manager of more than $100 billion of Singapore’s
foreign-exchange reserves, is selling shares in its overseas
logistics unit in an IPO that will raise S$3.45 billion, making
it Singapore’s biggest since 1993.  Mapletree Industrial, led by Chief Executive Officer  Tham Kuo Wei , will have  assets  of about S$2.2 billion on the listing
date, including 70 business parks, factories and industrial
buildings located mainly in Singapore.  The company has an over-allotment option to expand the sale
by 91.7 million units, and an agreement by Mapletree Investments
Pte, Temasek’s real estate unit, to subscribe for 359.5 million
units, according to the IPO prospectus.  Citigroup Inc. , DBS Group Holdings Ltd.,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  and Standard Chartered Plc are arranging the sale.  Mapletree Investments will own 37.3 percent of Mapletree
Industrial after the IPO, and 31 percent if the option to expand
the sale is exercised, according to the prospectus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  