-- Emerging-Market Stocks Climb for First Day in Three on Bets Fed Will Ease
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-11T05:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/emerging-market-stocks-climb-for-first-time-in-3-days-on-fed-easing-bets.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, sending
the benchmark index higher for the first time in three days, as
investors speculated the Federal Reserve will take further
measures to stimulate growth, spurring demand for commodities.  PetroChina Co.  and China Shenhua Energy Co. climbed more
than 3 percent, leading gains among energy producers after oil
advanced for a second day. Korea Zinc., a gold and silver
producer, advanced 1.9 percent in Seoul, tracking gains in the
prices of precious metals.  “People are more clearly recognizing the growth disparity
between the developed economies and the emerging economies,”
 Timothy Moe , Hong Kong-based strategist at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We’re seeing in
the last few months strong flows into Asian equity markets and
we think that will persist in the fourth quarter.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  added 0.6 percent to
1,107.79 as of 12:20 p.m. in Shanghai. China’s  Shanghai
Composite Index  climbed 2.4 percent for the biggest advance in
the region. Stock markets open for trading advanced apart from
the Philippines and Taiwan, while South Korea was little changed.  The MSCI gauge rallied 17 percent last  quarter , the most in
a year, on speculation developing nations will be able to
sustain their recovery and that central banks around the world
may be prepared to take more measures to spur growth.  The measure gained 1.4 percent last week, when Japan’s
central bank cut its benchmark interest rate and Australia
unexpectedly kept its key rate unchanged. China is in no
“hurry” to reduce overall inflation and focus on pushing down
housing prices to strengthen the economic recovery, central bank
governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said Oct. 10 in Washington.  Commodity Prices  U.S. job losses have reinforced expectations the Fed will
pump more money into the economy to keep it from flagging. The
central bank will buy as much as $65 billion in Treasuries a
month as it attempts to stem job losses, Mansoor Mohi-uddin,
head of global currency strategy at UBS AG, wrote today.  Commodity prices gained on speculation quantitative easing
measures will weaken the dollar and boost the demand for metals
and energy as alternative investments. Gold climbed to trade
near a record and silver advanced to a 30-year high, while
copper surged to 27-month highs in London and New York.
Crude for November delivery gained as much as 76 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $83.42 a barrel in New York electronic trading.  PetroChina gained 2.8 percent to 10.76 yuan, pacing
advances for energy producers. A gauge of energy stocks in
China’s CSI 300 Index rose 6.6 percent for the steepest advance
among the 10 industry groups.  Bangkok Bank Pcl  fell 3.2 percent, leading Thai banks lower,
after Credit Suisse Group AG cut its rating on the industry,
citing concerns about rising bad loans.  PT Indofood Sukses
Makmur , Indonesia’s biggest instant-noodle maker, dropped 4.4
percent for the third-biggest percentage decline on the MSCI
guage, after JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its stock rating to
“neutral” from “overweight”, citing the lack of a “major
catalyst” after the listing of a packaged-foods unit.  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai. With assistance by  Zhang Shidong  in
Shanghai, Susan Li in Hong Kong. Editors:  Allen Wan   To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  