-- Emerging-Market Stocks Climb for First Day in Three on Bets Fed Will Ease
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-10-11T14:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/emerging-market-stocks-climb-for-first-day-in-three-on-bets-fed-will-ease.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, sending
the benchmark index higher for the first time in three days, as
investors speculated the Federal Reserve will take more steps to
stimulate growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  added 0.7 percent to
1,108.47 at 10:32 a.m. New York time. China’s  Shanghai Composite
Index  increased 2.5 percent, bringing its two-day climb to 5.7
percent, the biggest in a year. Thailand’s  SET stock index rose
1.5 percent , its largest advance in three weeks. Turkish stocks
reached an all-time high and bond yields fell to the lowest on
record after the government pledged to cut its deficit. Brazil’s
 Bovespa stock index  climbed 0.4 percent and Russia’s  Micex stock
index  gained 1.1 percent.  PetroChina Co.  and China Shenhua Energy Co. climbed at
least 3 percent after oil rose earlier today as much as 1
percent. Russia’s OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, the world’s largest
supplier of the metal, added 1.1 percent as most metals rallied.  “I think emerging-equity markets will outperform,” as a
result of so-called quantitative easing,  Bob Parker , senior
adviser at Credit Suisse Group AG, told  Francine Lacqua  on
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move.” Equity traders are
betting that the Fed and other central banks will undertake
large-scale purchases of securities, he said.  The Fed will buy as much as $65 billion in Treasuries a
month as it attempts to stem job losses,  Mansoor Mohi-uddin ,
head of global currency strategy at UBS AG, wrote in a report
today. The U.S. lost more jobs than forecast in September while
the unemployment rate remained unchanged at 9.6 percent, the
Labor Department said Oct. 8.  Turkish Records  Turkey’s  ISE 100 index  jumped 2.7 percent after the
government said it would cut its deficit to 2.8 percent of gross
domestic output in 2011, according to details published
yesterday in the Official Gazette. The previous target was 4
percent.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS , Turkey’s biggest bank by
market capitalization and the heaviest weighted stock in the
Turkish index, surged 4.7 percent.  Yields on Turkey’s benchmark two-year bonds declined 12
basis points to 7.72 percent, according to an ABN Amro Holding
NV index, the lowest closing level since the index started in
October 2004. The lira appreciated to its strongest level in two
years, strengthening 0.2 percent against the dollar to 1.4125.  OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer, rose 2.3
percent in Moscow. The country’s government may extend tax
breaks for state-run Rosneft at the Vankor field, Russia’s
largest new oil development, Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  told
reporters this weekend in Washington. The savings may amount to
$4 billion a year,  Artem Konchin , an oil and gas analyst at
UniCredit SpA in Moscow, said today by telephone.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA , the oil company
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , rose for the
first time in three days after UBS AG recommended buying the
stock.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jason Webb  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  