-- England Struggles to Sell Tickets for Montenegro Game: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-10-11T09:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/england-struggles-to-sell-tickets-for-montenegro-game-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Wembley Stayaway?  The Football Association is struggling to sell tickets for
England’s Euro 2012 qualifier against Montenegro at Wembley
Stadium tomorrow,  the Sun  reported.  The F.A. distributed leaflets at weekend Football League
matches around London to try and drum up support, the Sun said.  Officials want to avoid the “sorry sight” of a third of
the 90,000-capacity stadium being empty, the Sun added.  Chelsea defender John Terry pulled out of England’s squad
last night because of a back injury.  Jordan Counts Cost  Simon Jordan  said being chairman of Crystal Palace cost him
47 million pounds ($75 million),  the Sun  reported.  “I just wish I had enjoyed my time there a bit more,” he
was cited as saying.  Jordan left Palace after the south London club went into
administration, a form of protection from creditors, in January.  “Do I regret losing that money? Of course I do. But it’s
done now,” Jordan added.  Scotland’s 4-6-0  Scotland may play with no strikers against Spain tomorrow
after using the 4-6-0 formation in losing to the Czech Republic,
the  Daily Record  reported.  Scottish fans will “probably need to get used” to the
national team’s emphasis on counterattacking, assistant coach
Peter Houston told the newspaper.  Scotland, which lost 1-0 against the Czechs, hosts world
champion Spain at Hampden Park in another Euro 2012 qualifier.  Pato’s No to City  AC Milan’s Alexandre Pato said he has no plans to join
Manchester City,  the Sun  reported.  The 21-year-old Brazilian, reportedly a 55 million-pound
target for City, said he’d only leave Milan for Barcelona, the
Sun added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 