-- Merkel Tells Bulgarians Germany Supports Their Bid to Join Schengen Zone
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2010-10-11T14:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/merkel-tells-bulgarians-germany-supports-their-bid-to-join-schengen-zone.html
Germany is monitoring Bulgaria’s
effort to fight crime and corruption and supports its bid to
join the 25-nation Schengen Zone that allows passport-free
travel in most of the  European Union , German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said.  The German premier arrived at the Bulgarian capital Sofia
today to discuss bilateral projects and Bulgaria’s plan to
become a  Schengen  member, along with neighboring Romania, in
March 2011.  “We will evaluate the readiness of each country to join
the Schengen Zone depending on how well it has covered the list
of criteria,” Merkel told reporters. “Germany supports
Bulgaria’s efforts to join the Schengen Zone.”  The two Black Sea countries, which entered the EU in 2007,
would follow eight other former communist countries that became
Schengen members on Dec. 18, 2007, as the EU expands its
influence east and gives its newest members increased rights
within the EU.  The  European Commission , the EU’s Brussels-based executive
arm, is expected to assess in November whether Bulgaria and
Romania are ready to take the Schengen step in the planned
timeframe, Merkel said.  The two newest EU states are set to receive 45 billion
euros ($60 billion) of EU aid in part to improve infrastructure
to EU levels, including security systems.  “The most important issue is to ensure the supremacy of
law, so that people outside the Schengen area cannot obtain
Schengen zone visas through corruption,” said Merkel.  Roma Dispute  Expulsions of Roma from France to Romania and Bulgaria,
which sparked a disagreement with other EU states in August,
should not affect the ruling on Schengen entry, Merkel said.  “The issue of the Roma in France has nothing do with
this,” Merkel said.  Countries in the Schengen system, named for the Luxembourg
village where the border-free plans were hatched in 1985, have
to meet standards for border security, the fight against
organized crime and falsified documents, and have to issue
biometric passports to their citizens.  Countries hoping to join need the unanimous endorsement of
those already in, based on an assessment by the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  