-- Merrill Lynch's Schlack Wins Title of Wall Street's Top Athlete
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-11T04:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/merrill-lynch-s-schlack-wins-unofficial-title-of-wall-street-s-top-athlete.html
Chris Schlack , a second-year analyst
at Merrill Lynch & Co., fought through a stomach virus to claim
the unofficial title of Wall Street’s best athlete at a charity
decathlon in New York.  The 24-year-old Schlack finished atop a field of 25 traders,
bankers and advisers yesterday to win the  10-event competition ,
which benefits  Lance Armstrong ’s  LiveStrong  Foundation to fund
cancer research.  Schlack, whose grandmother died of ovarian cancer in
February, finished with 7,514 total points, 38 ahead of runner-
up  Jason Tufo  of Virtu Financial Services Inc.  Justin Nunez  of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  was third.  “I battled nausea, headaches and being dehydrated to win
against a very competitive field,” Schlack said in a telephone
interview from his apartment in Hoboken, New Jersey. “That
makes me more proud than anything.”  While the competition featured runs at three different
distances, that’s where its similarity to the Olympic decathlon
ended. Pull-ups, a football throw, an agility drill and bench
press also were part of the one-day contest at the Mitchel
Athletic Complex in Uniondale, Long Island.  The title was decided in the final event -- the bodyweight
bench press -- where Tufo, 30, vaulted to second place with a
competition-best 33 repetitions. He just missed catching Schlack,
who spends time as a personal trainer and kick-boxing teacher at
a gym in Hoboken when he isn’t working as an analyst in the
alternate investments group for Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch
unit.  ‘Two Reps Away’  “He was one or two reps away from the title,” Decathlon
co-organizer Dave Maloney said of Tufo in a telephone interview.
“It was that close.”  Schlack, a graduate of Seton Hall University, wasn’t sure
at the start of the day if he’d be in the competition. After
going out to dinner the night before, he got sick at midnight
and was barely able to sleep before the event.  Schlack said the sickness forced him off the bus to the
Decathlon, yet he decided to return and compete, if only to
support the cause. Schlack said he thought of his grandmother,
who beat ovarian cancer seven years ago only to have the disease
return and claim her life on Valentine’s Day this year.  “As the day went on, I felt really nauseous, but in the
competition the adrenaline goes and you kind of get over it,”
Schlack said. “So I fought through it. Looking back, I think
it’s kind of symbolic of how cancer survivors never say quit and
fight all the obstacles.”  Raising Funds  LiveStrong  is the organization founded by Armstrong, who
won a record seven Tour de France cycling races after recovering
from cancer. It has raised more than $325 million to help people
with cancer since its inception in 1997.  The  American Cancer Society  projects that 569,490 people in
the U.S. will die of cancer this year.  “My grandmother is a lady that our whole family owes a lot
to,” Schlack said. “I wouldn’t have gone to college if it
wasn’t for her helping co-sign my loans. (She) was a little more
motivation for me. I felt like complete garbage, but knowing
what she went through it wasn’t a lot of effort to exert myself
and overcome that.”  Kyle Peterson , the 2009 Decathlon champion and an associate
at Sage View Capital LP, finished fifth this year.  Max Meltzer of Merrill Lynch, a former All-American
wrestler at Harvard University, placed fourth behind Goldman
Sachs’s Nunez, who played football at Columbia University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  