-- Ethiopia Rebels Say Petronas Concession Sale Shows State's Lack of Control
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2010-10-11T11:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/ethiopia-s-ogaden-rebels-say-petronas-sale-shows-state-s-lack-of-control.html
A rebel group operating in Ethiopia
said the sale by Malaysia’s  Petroliam Nasional Bhd.  of energy
concessions in the country showed the government’s lack of
control of the restive eastern region.  SouthWest Energy (H.K.) Ltd. , which according to its
website is an Ethiopian-owned company based in Hong Kong, said
on Oct. 6 it acquired all of Petronas’s interests in the Ogaden
basin, which has proven gas reserves of as much as 4 trillion
cubic feet. Owners of SouthWest include members of the Tigrayan
People’s Liberation Front, one of the main factions in
Ethiopia’s ruling party, the renegade Ogaden National Liberation
Front said in an e-mailed statement on Oct. 8.  The government has been “forced to hide behind its own
company” because of its lack of control of the ethnic-Somali
region, the ONLF said.  Ethiopia’s government denied the company is owned by
members of the ruling party. “The ONLF’s assertions are false,”
 Adam Goldberg , spokesman for SouthWest Energy, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “SouthWest Energy has U.S., U.K.
and other Western investors, and the TPLF has no ownership stake
or any other association with SouthWest Energy.”  Ethnic Somali rebels from the ONLF are seeking independence
for Ethiopia’s Ogaden region, an arid area twice the size of
England largely inhabited by nomads. In April 2007, the group
attacked an exploration site in the Ogaden operated by China’s
 Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau , killing nine Chinese
workers and 65 Ethiopians.  Counterinsurgency  The attack triggered a counterinsurgency campaign by the
Ethiopian army in the second half of 2007. Ethiopia considers
the ONLF a terrorist organization backed by neighboring  Eritrea .  “SouthWest Energy believes that its investments in the
Somali region of Ethiopia are the best solution for the region’s
sustainable development, and it will continue to closely consult
with clan elders and community leaders about the environment and
other regional issues,” Goldberg said.  Both the Ethiopian government and the ONLF have previously
claimed battlefield victories and accused each other of
atrocities. Verification of the reports is difficult as the
Ethiopian government bars foreign journalists from traveling
independently in the region, much of which is under military
administration.  Ethiopia “has clearly weakened, if not defeated the
insurgency” in the area, judging by the lack of major incidents
since the 2007 attack, J. Peter Pham, senior vice president on
the  National Committee on American Foreign Policy , said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  ‘Window of Opportunity’  The ONLF’s “degraded” operational capacity is a “window of
opportunity” for Ethiopia to put an end to the conflict “once
and for all,” Pham said. That would “open the way for the
development of the natural resources,” he said.  Shimeles Kemal, a spokesman for the Ethiopian government,
said the state will sign a peace agreement with a “major
faction” of the ONLF led by Salahdin Maow in Addis Ababa
tomorrow. The faction represents about 80 percent of the ONLF’s
fighting force, he said.  The Maow group has not conducted military attacks in the
Ogaden and is “largely an exile organization,” David Shinn, a
former U.S. ambassador to  Ethiopia , said in an e-mailed response
to questions on Oct. 8.  Petronas, the state-owned oil company, said in an e-mailed
statement the sale of the assets in the Ogaden is “part of our
overseas E&P assets rationalization exercise, in line with our
strategy to build a robust international portfolio.” It didn’t
elaborate.  Ketsela Tadesse, head of petroleum licensing and
administration at the Mines and Energy Ministry, said the
agreement between SouthWest and Petronas has yet to be ratified
by the government.  “There is a clause in the contract for the concession to be
transferred, but it needs to be approved by the ministry and by
high officials,” Ketsela said by phone on Oct. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 