-- European Stocks Rise; Ladbrokes, Yara, Nokia Shares Lead Gains
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-10-11T15:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-inmarsat-may-climb.html
European stocks  climbed, extending
the biggest weekly gain in a month for the benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, amid continuing speculation that the Federal
Reserve will step in to support the economy.  Ladbrokes Plc rallied 2.4 percent as the U.K. bookmaker
founded in 1886 said third-quarter operating profit more than
doubled. Fertilizer makers Yara International ASA and Syngenta
AG climbed as corn and soybean futures surged to a two-year
high. Nokia Oyj rose for a fifth day as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Nordea Bank said new smartphones would boost earnings.  The  Stoxx 600  gained 0.3 percent to 263.11 at 4:33 p.m. in
London as two stocks advanced for each one that declined. The
measure rose 1.2 percent last week as speculation mounted that
the U.S. Federal Open Market Committee will announce plans to
stimulate economic growth at its Nov. 2-3 meeting. The Fed will
release minutes from its September gathering tomorrow.  “We will see quantitative easing by the States,”  Bob Parker , senior adviser at Credit Suisse Group AG, said on
Bloomberg Television’s Countdown with Francine Lacqua. “I don’t
think it’s discounted in global equity markets. By the end of
the year you could see U.S. equities and global equities up a
minimum of five percent.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in 14 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 and Germany’s DAX
increased 0.2 percent, while France’s CAC rose 0.1 percent.  Greek Stocks Gain  Greece’s  ASE Index  climbed 1.3 percent after International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said it’s
prepared to give the nation more time to repay loans should
European countries do so first. Greek officials are doing
“exactly what they need to do” to rein in spending and meet
benchmarks set out as a condition of a 110 billion-euro ($154
billion) aid package awarded in April, Strauss-Kahn said in a
television interview with Bloomberg HT yesterday.  Exchange rates dominated the IMF’s annual meeting in
Washington this weekend on concern that officials are relying on
cheaper currencies to aid growth, risking retaliatory
devaluations and trade barriers. Finance ministers and central
bankers pledged to improve cooperation, yet did little to show
how they would alter their ways beyond agreeing to let the IMF
study the matter.  European stocks pared their advance earlier today after a
Reuters report that China’s central bank temporarily raised
reserve requirements for six large commercial banks, reining in
liquidity as the economy stabilizes and money flows in from
abroad. The People’s Bank of China declined to comment.  Ladbrokes Climbs   Ladbrokes  gained 2.4 percent to 141.3 pence as the company
said third-quarter operating profit more than doubled, boosted
by betting on soccer’s World Cup and better win rates at its
gambling machines. Earnings gained 128 percent to 51.1 million
pounds ($81.4 million) in the period and Ladbrokes said it’s
“on track” to meet its full-year forecasts.  Yara, the largest publicly traded nitrogen-fertilizer
maker, rallied 2 percent to 285.7 kroner, the highest level in
two years. Syngenta, the world’s biggest maker of agricultural
chemicals, rose 1.4 percent to 259.4 Swiss francs.  Corn futures surged to a two-year high on concern that
global demand for animal feed, food and fuel made from the grain
will outpace falling production in the U.S., the biggest grower
and exporter.  Separately, the Telegraph said Yara could be a potential
buyer of Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.’s non-potash units.  Nokia, Salzgitter  Nokia rose 1.4 percent to 7.86 euros. Nordea upgraded the
world’s largest maker of mobile phones to “strong buy” and
Goldman Sachs raised its price estimate by 10 percent to 8.60
euros, with both brokerages citing higher earnings from new
smartphones.  Salzgitter AG climbed 3.7 percent to 51.43 euros. Germany’s
second-biggest steelmaker posted higher revenue in the third
quarter after raising prices for steel products, Boersen-Zeitung
reported, citing Chief Financial Officer  Heinz Joerg Fuhrmann .  John Wood Group Plc, a U.K. oil and gas services company,
advanced 4.5 percent to 448.6 pence after saying it expects
higher second-half earnings in its engineering and gas turbine
services units on increased contract awards.  Electrolux AB  jumped 3.9 percent to 175 kronor, its
highest price in almost three months. The world’s second-largest
household appliance maker agreed to buy a 52 percent stake in
Egyptian washing-machine manufacturer Olympic Group Financial
Investments for $246 million.  Inmarsat Upgrade  Inmarsat Plc , the operator of satellite communications
systems, increased 2.1 percent to 644 pence as Goldman Sachs
raised the shares to “buy” from “neutral.”  Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA slumped 4.9 percent to
4.80 euros. UBS AG downgraded its recommendation on the Spanish
maker of wind turbines to “sell” from “neutral” and Exane
BNP Paribas cut its share-price estimate on the shares by 43
percent to 4 euros.  “We continue to see market fundamentals as particularly
tough,” Exane analyst  Arnaud Brossard  wrote in a report today.
“Demand is modest and overcapacity is still high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 