-- Mexico Peso Bond Yields Drop to Record Low on Fed Speculation
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-10-11T21:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/mexico-peso-fluctuates-as-fed-speculation-offset-by-crude-oil.html
Mexico’s peso bonds rose for a sixth
day, pushing yields to a record low, as speculation grew the
Federal Reserve may ease monetary policy, drawing investors to
higher-yielding, emerging-market assets.  The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent bond due in 2024 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.275 percent
at 5 p.m. New York time, according to Banco Santander SA, the
lowest level since the security was issued in 2005. The price
rose 0.34 centavo to 134.88 centavos per peso. The yields on the
debt have plunged 200 basis points this year.  “We continue to see that money is flowing into the local
markets” looking for yields, said  Rafael Camarena , an economist
with Banco Santander SA in Mexico City. “There is even some
interest in short-term bonds here.”  The Fed said it’s ready to ease monetary policy by buying
assets to spur the economic recovery. The U.S. purchases about
80 percent of Mexico’s exports.  The peso dropped 0.3 percent to 12.4516 per dollar, from
12.4142 on Oct. 8. The currency has risen 5.1 percent this year
against the dollar.  Gross fixed investment, or spending on machinery and other
goods, rose 0.8 percent in July, below the median estimate of
1.3 percent in a Bloomberg survey.  Traders didn’t trigger any of the dollar options available
today, the central bank said on its website. So far this month,
$500 million of dollar options have been exercised.  Dollar Options  The bank has been selling $600 million of dollar options
monthly, allowing it to purchase dollars as it seeks to raise
foreign reserves after the peso reached a record low last year.  Mexico has accumulated more foreign reserves through the
options than policy makers expected, said central bank Governor
 Agustin Carstens  in an interview Oct. 8.  Carstens’ comment may be a signal that the bank won’t join
Brazil and South Korea in a so-called “currency war,” said
 Gabriel Casillas , chief Mexico economist for JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  -- With assistance from  Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City. Editors:
 Glenn J. Kalinoski , Alan Mirabella.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  