-- Express Scripts Seeks to Keep Patients on Drugs, Reduce Health-Care Costs
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 2010-10-11T20:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/express-scripts-seeks-to-keep-patients-on-drugs-reduce-health-care-costs.html
Express Scripts Inc. , one of the
largest managers of prescription drug benefits in the U.S.,
introduced a program designed to cut medical costs by
identifying the chronically ill patients most likely to neglect
medicines within a year.  Computer models that tag the potentially noncompliant will
let St. Louis-based Express Scripts contact patients before they
stop taking drugs, according to a company statement today.
 Express Scripts , which will encourage patients to stay on
medication, is focusing on those with diabetes, high blood
pressure and high cholesterol.  Noncompliance with drug regimens costs the U.S. as much as
$106 billion annually in extra medical care, according to
Express Scripts’ 2009 Drug Trend Report. While the company can’t
estimate how much care the computer models may save, Express
Scripts said it is confident the program will lead to healthier
participants and lower expenses, David Whitrap, a spokesman,
said in an e-mail today.  “It’s easy to walk through a hospital and identify people
who would not be there if they had simply taken their
medications,” Steven Miller, chief medical officer at Express
Scripts, said in the statement.  Patients may stop taking drugs because of cost,
inconvenience, side effects or forgetfulness, Miller said.  Medco Health Solutions Inc. , the largest pharmacy benefit
manager by revenue, has offered a similar program for more than
four years, allowing the company to reach out to doctors and
pharmacists when gaps in care are identified, said  Ann Smith , a
spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  Clues for Concern  The lapses that trigger an outreach include a patient’s
failure to refill a prescription, a potential bad drug
interaction, or a doctor’s not giving the patient a prescription
for a drug that is called for by national clinically recognized
guidelines.  Medco, based in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, started on Oct.
1 a web-based, real-time tool to push out e-mail messages to
patients.  A pharmacy-benefits manager negotiates drug prices with
manufacturers and retailers on behalf of clients.  Express Scripts  shares fell 11 cents to $48.19 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  Medco 
fell 2 cents to $52.60 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 