-- Exxon, Chevron's Africa Ambitions Face Risk From State Curbs
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-10-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/exxon-chevron-s-africa-ambitions-at-risk-as-oil-states-assert-authority.html
Oil producers led by  Exxon Mobil
Corp. ,  Chevron Corp.  and  Tullow Oil Plc  tripled spending in sub-
Saharan Africa to $30 billion a year in a decade, finding twice
the U.S.’s remaining reserves. The flow of cash is now at risk
as nations from Uganda to Ghana tighten control of the industry.  Explorers face being stripped of licenses or awarded less
favorable contracts as governments seek to reassert authority
over their natural resources. There’s also the challenge of
operating in countries emerging from civil war such as the
Democratic Republic of Congo and Sierra Leone.  “Governments are under much more pressure to make demands
on oil and gas companies in terms of oil exploration and oil
revenue coming into the national coffers,” said Rolake Akinola,
a London-based Africa analyst at Eurasia Group. “That trend
will only continue.”  Ghana blocked Exxon’s $4 billion bid to buy a stake in the
country’s Jubilee field from Kosmos Energy LLC this year.
Tullow’s plans to start pumping from fields in Uganda with 1
billion barrels of oil have been held up by a tax dispute. Both
countries are set to become major oil exporters for the first
time as discoveries are put into production.  “Government interference in Uganda and Ghana is a major
concern,” said  Dougie Youngson , an analyst at Arbuthnot
Securities Ltd. in London. “This is all part of the pattern of
operating in Africa.”  Nigeria, the continent’s biggest producer with output of
about 2 million barrels a day last month, will increase taxes
and royalties from production when it passes a new oil law.
Foreign oil companies have said it may make investment in
offshore fields unprofitable.  Estimated Reserves  The African clampdown comes as oil companies are having to
search further afield as established areas such as the North Sea
run out of petroleum deposits while others are off-limits.  Sub-Saharan Africa currently supplies about 7 percent of
the world’s crude, led by Nigeria and Angola,  according to BP
Plc . From 1989 to 2009, Africa’s estimated oil reserves more
than doubled to 127.7 billion barrels, equivalent to about 9.6
percent of the world’s total, according to BP. The U.S.’s
reserves stand at about 28.4 billion barrels.  Annual oil investment in sub-Saharan Africa, from
Mozambique to Sierra Leone, more than tripled between 2000 and
2009 to about $30 billion, according to  Wood Mackenzie
Consultants Ltd .  License Tenders  Along the West African coast, Liberia, Gabon and Sao Tome &
Principe are currently holding tenders for exploration licenses.
The geology that stretches from Mauritania to northern Namibia
may hold 71.7 billion barrels of undiscovered oil, according to
 U.S. Geological Survey estimates .  “It’s low cost to enter through exploration awards,” said
Martin Kelly, the head of sub-Sahara Africa research at
Edinburgh, Scotland-based Wood Mackenzie. “There is plenty of
interest.”  And plenty of risk, as Tullow found when Congo nullified a
2006 agreement with the Irish explorer and handed two oil blocks
to companies owned by South African President  Jacob Zuma ’s
nephew in June.  The country, which is recovering from four decades of war
and dictatorship, will struggle to attract “legitimate”
investment if it doesn’t honor contracts in a transparent way,
Tullow said at the time.  Venus Find  Tullow and Anadarko Petroleum Corp. are partners in the
deepwater Venus discovery in Sierra Leone, which may hold as
many as 1 billion barrels of crude, and also plan  wells  in
Liberia. In September, Liberia approved an offshore oil
exploration accord with Chevron.  In 2001, Sierra Leone’s government and the rebel
 Revolutionary United Front  agreed to end a decade of fighting
that killed tens of thousands of people and displaced 2 million
others.  “Difficult bureaucracy and weak constitutions” are the
main risks for investment in Liberia and Sierra Leone, said Alex
Vines, an Africa expert at the Royal Institute of International
Affairs in London. “These are weakened states that have come
out of civil war.”  In Ghana,  Kosmos , the U.S. explorer backed by Blackstone
Group LP and Warburg Pincus LLC, was accused of breaking the
terms of its contract by marketing assets to Exxon without the
consent of the country’s national energy company, a charge it
denied.  ‘Clear Requirements’  “Ghana supports investors like Exxon Mobil in coming to
Ghana,” Deputy Energy Minister  Emmanuel Armah-Kofi Buah  said.
“But our laws also have clear requirements that must be met.”  Tullow paid Heritage Oil Plc $1.5 billion in July to take
full control of two Ugandan blocks, prior to bringing in China
National Offshore Oil Corp. and  Total SA  as partners. Final
approval has been held up until the issue of capital gains tax
between the Ugandan government and Heritage is resolved.  “We have major investments all over Africa,” said  Aidan Heavey , Tullow’s chief executive officer. “The Ghanaian
government and the Ugandan government both have very strong
legal systems, very strong tax systems. They follow those and we
have no problem with it.”  Ugandan Finance Minister Syda Bbumba told reporters in the
capital city of Kampala last month that the tax row “will be
resolved soon.”  The challenges of African exploration, which include
project delays as well as changes to contracts, have caused some
companies to reconsider their investment.  Premier Oil Plc , a U.K.-based explorer, considered selling
its stake in  Mauritania’s Chinguetti oil field , the only
producing project in the country, after the government changed
the terms of its contract and output lagged expectations.  ‘Dominant Position’  Although it retained its 8.1 percent stake, Premier is now
focusing exploration in North Africa, the Middle East and South-
East Asia, CEO  Simon Lockett  said in an interview.  Dana Petroleum Plc, the recent target of a successful $2.9
billion hostile takeover offer by  Korea National Oil Corp. , said
the best way to profit from African oil is to sell any
discoveries.  “You don’t necessarily have to go into full development,”
CEO  Tom Cross  said. “The best way to maximize return to
shareholders is to explore in these countries, but to produce
cash in more politically stable areas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will
Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  