-- Hariri Probe May Spark Violence in Lebanon as Hezbollah Resists
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-10-11T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/hezbollah-resistance-may-emerge-with-un-set-to-name-names-in-hariri-case.html
Five years after the murder of
former Lebanese premier  Rafiq Hariri , his son’s government of
national unity has sought to stabilize a country torn for
decades by sectarian war. The search for Hariri’s killers puts
that goal at risk.  A  United Nations tribunal  investigating the case is
preparing to name names. U.S.-backed Prime Minister  Saad Hariri 
supports the inquiry, while the  Shiite Muslim Hezbollah
movement , a key member of his coalition, says the court is
biased and should be abolished amid speculation some of its
members may be among those indicted.  Hezbollah and its allies are stepping up pressure on Hariri
by promising to block budget funds for the UN probe. Last month,
members of the Shiite group staged a show of force at Beirut’s
airport in support of a former suspect in the case. The row
comes just as the U.S. struggles to get Middle East peace talks
under way, and threatens to derail an economy that boomed during
the global financial crisis.  “We’re heading into a kind of showdown” that could be “a
catalyst for violence,” said Paul Salem, director of the
 Carnegie Endowment for International Peace’s   Middle East Center 
in Beirut. Hezbollah “will start with rhetoric and political
pressure, like we have now, and escalation might then include
civil disobedience, demonstrations, closing of roads, of the
airport.”  Rafiq Hariri and 22 others were killed by a roadside bomb
in Beirut in February 2005. The UN panel says it may file
indictments before the end of the year.  Hezbollah and its backer Syria deny any role in the
killing, which galvanized millions of Lebanese to protest and
led to the ousting of Syrian troops from Lebanon after 29 years.  Syria Blamed  An initial UN inquiry charged four pro-Syrian officials in
Lebanon’s security services. They were held in jail for four
years before being released last year by the tribunal due to a
lack of evidence, after some witnesses changed or retracted
statements. That led Hezbollah to press for the detention and
trial of “false witnesses,” and the group’s leader  Hassan Nasrallah  to accuse the tribunal of protecting them.  Hezbollah refuses to disarm its militia, saying it needs to
defend the country from Israel, which invaded in 1978, 1982 and
2006. Israel and the U.S. classify Hezbollah as a terrorist
group. The group fired thousands of rockets into Israel during a
monthlong war in 2006.  Hezbollah also gets funds from Iran, whose President
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  is due in Lebanon this week. Pictures of the
Iranian leader line the road from Beirut’s airport.  The year of relative calm Lebanon has enjoyed under
Hariri’s coalition, which includes representatives of all the
country’s main sectarian groups, isn’t typical of the recent
past.  Biggest Challenge  A 15-year civil war ended in 1990. The country suffered the
war between Israel and Hezbollah four years ago, and an outbreak
of civil strife in May 2008 that left at least 80 people dead
after Hezbollah and its allies seized control of west Beirut.  As the UN indictment nears, the Shiite group is mounting
its biggest challenge to Hariri since then.  Hezbollah publicly supported Jamil al-Sayyed, a former
general who was one of the four men jailed over the Hariri
killing and then freed. Last month, al-Sayyed called for the
overthrow of Saad Hariri’s government, then refused to comply
with a court summons to answer questions about the comments.  Hezbollah sent senior officials to meet al-Sayyed at Beirut
airport on Sept. 18. The former general attacked Saad Hariri and
the UN tribunal in a televised press conference in the airport’s
VIP lounge.  Iranian Backing  “If false witnesses aren’t held accountable under the law,
we shall settle this against them on the streets,” he said,
flanked by two Hezbollah bodyguards wearing black shades.  A “more stable political environment” under Saad Hariri
has helped Lebanon’s economy perform “remarkably well,” the
International Monetary Fund said in a  report  published Oct. 8.
It forecast growth of 8 percent this year, from 9 percent in
2009.  Still, the country needs tighter fiscal policy to reduce
debt, the IMF said. Hezbollah though is threatening to hold up
the budget in parliament because it objects to an article
setting aside about $42 million this year and $33 million in
2011 to help fund the UN tribunal.  “Hezbollah’s position is known,” said  Ibrahim el- Moussawi , the group’s spokesman, in an interview. “We won’t
approve.”  A relapse into violence “would have a devastating effect
on consumer confidence, which has been a key driver of economic
activity,” said  Nassib Ghobril , head of research at Byblos Bank
in Beirut.  ‘No Choice’  Hariri’s supporters play down the risk that the conflict
may escalate.  “In this country you are always worried,”  Mohamad Chatah ,
Hariri’s chief political adviser, said in an interview.  “The
flip side of being worried is also to take things in your
stride. The country has weathered a lot of storms.”  Hariri  told Asharq Al-Awsat newspaper  last month that
blaming Syria for his father’s killing was a mistake. While the
comments were seen by some supporters as a climbdown, Hariri
“has no choice,” said  Josh Landis , director of the Center for
Middle East Studies at the University of Oklahoma in Norman.  “He needs Syria because the warring communities in Lebanon
can’t resolve their own internal issues,” Landis said.  As Saad Hariri weighs the difficulties of governing Lebanon
without the cooperation of Hezbollah and Syria against the
possibility they may have helped kill his father, the family
connection is also important for the tribunal’s opponents. Under
Arab and Islamic moral codes, it would carry extra weight if
it’s the victim’s son who exonerates suspects, Carnegie’s Salem
said.  “They want the concession from Hariri because he’s the son
of Hariri,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon at   mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 