-- Factory Output, Infosys Earnings, Delhi Games Closing: India Week Ahead
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2010-10-11T03:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/factory-output-infosys-earnings-delhi-games-closing-india-week-ahead.html
India may report this week factory
output growth in August slowed, easing pressure on the central
bank to lift key interest rates. The Commonwealth Games will
close on Oct. 14.  Industrial  production  probably rose 9.5 percent from a year
earlier, according to the median of estimates provided by 17
economists in a Bloomberg News survey, after rising 13.8 percent
in July. The Central Statistical Organisation may release the
latest figures at 11 a.m. tomorrow in New Delhi.  India’s central bank raised a benchmark interest rate more
than forecast on Sept. 16, stepping up efforts to cool inflation
in the world’s third-fastest growing major economy. The Reserve
Bank of India has increased rates five times this year and
signaled its monetary tightening cycle is close to complete.  The commerce ministry may report food and fuel inflation on
Oct. 14. India’s inflation cooled in August as the prospect of a
record crop this year capped food-price gains. The key
wholesale-price index rose 8.5 percent from a year earlier after
July’s 9.8 percent gain, calculated using a new base year.  The Commonwealth Games involving 71 nations and territories,
will come to a close in New Delhi. The run-up to the 12-day
event was marred by missed construction deadlines, the collapse
of a stadium footbridge and complaints of uninhabitable
accommodation for athletes.  State-run Coal India Ltd., the world’s largest producer,
will start marketing from today its planned initial share sale.
A panel of ministers may set the price for the sale tomorrow.  Infosys Technologies Ltd. , country’s second-largest
software exporter, will announce earnings on Oct. 15.  Stocks, Rupee, Bonds  Indian stocks fell last week, with the key index snapping
five weeks of gains that took it near a record high. The Bombay
Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index , or  Sensex , fell 1 percent,
ending its longest stretch of weekly gains since April.  Tata Steel Ltd. , the nation’s largest producer of the alloy,
and  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. , the biggest household products
maker, were the biggest losers on the Sensex.  The index gained 26 percent from a May 25 low, approaching
the record closing high of 20,873.33 on Jan. 8, 2008. The gauge,
the best performer this year among the world’s 10 biggest stock
markets, climbed 12 percent last month, the most since May 2009.  The rupee completed a sixth weekly gain and climbed to a
two-year high on Oct. 7 as exchange data showed global funds
pumped a record $22 billion into Indian stocks this year. On Oct.
8, the rupee fell the most in a month on concern importers will
step up dollar purchases and the central bank will intervene
following a rally that’s made the currency Asia’s best performer
of the past month.  Benchmark 10-year bonds declined, pushing yields to the
highest level in three weeks, on concern rising oil prices will
fuel inflation. The yield on the benchmark 7.8 percent note due
May 2020 rose three basis points to 7.98 percent at close on
Friday in Mumbai.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  