-- Foreclosure Suits, BP, Airgas, UBS in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-11T10:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/fdic-suits-swatch-ubs-airgas-park-avenue-bank-in-court-news.html
A former paralegal told Florida
investigators that workers at a law firm that processed
foreclosures signed paperwork without reading it, misdated
records and skirted rules protecting homeowners in the military.  Tammie Lou Kapusta, who said she spent more than a year at
the Law Offices of David J. Stern PA, made the accusations in a
Sept. 22 interview with lawyers for Florida Attorney General
Bill McCollum. In August, McCollum  announced  a probe of three
law firms to see whether improper documents were created and
filed with state courts to hasten the foreclosure process.  Jeffery Tew, a lawyer for the Stern firm, denied Kapusta’s
claims.  Kapusta, who spoke under oath, said the Stern firm
ballooned from 225 employees when she started in March 2008, to
more than 1,100 when she was fired in July 2009. She described a
disorganized workplace where documents got lost and mortgages
were misfiled. The training process was “stupid and
ridiculous,” she said.  “There were a lot of young kids working up there who
really didn’t pay attention to what they were doing,” she said,
according to a transcript. “We had a lot of people that were
hired in the firm that were just hired as warm bodies.”  Kapusta’s statements were reported  Oct. 7  in the Tampa
Tribune. Tew, of Tew Cardenas LLP in Miami, said he wasn’t aware
of the interview until it was released to the public.  “We didn’t get a chance to cross-examine her,” he said.
“It was a one-sided statement by a disgruntled employee. There
was a lot of animus and personal references, and she seeks to
besmirch people’s reputation. The law firm denies there’s any
accuracy in the charges.”  There is a court hearing set for Oct. 12 to determine
whether McCollum’s office has jurisdiction over the firm’s
conduct, Tew said.  “This is a civil investigation, and the attorney general
hasn’t made any conclusions,” Tew said.  David J. Stern and officials of his Plantation, Florida-
based mortgage-processing company, DJSP Enterprises Inc., didn’t
respond to a request for comment. DJSP shares the same address
and phone number as the law firm.  For more, click here.  Louisiana, Texas and Florida Lawyers to Lead BP Spill Cases  A federal judge appointed four lawyers from three states to
lead a 15-member steering committee for thousands of people and
businesses suing over the  BP Plc  oil spill in the Gulf of
Mexico.  The four-member executive committee appointed by U.S.
District Judge Carl Barbier in New Orleans is made up of
attorneys from Louisiana, Texas and Florida. Brian H. Barr of
Pensacola, Florida, Scott Summy of Dallas, James Roy of
Layafette, Louisiana, and Stephen Herman of New Orleans will
“coordinate the responsibilities” of the larger plaintiffs’
steering committee representing hundreds of lawyers involved in
cases against BP and other companies including  Halliburton Co. 
and  Transocean Ltd.   Barbier is overseeing more than 400 consolidated lawsuits
brought by fishing, tourism and real-estate interests claiming
harm from the largest marine oil spill in U.S. history. He
announced the selections Oct. 8 after reviewing applications
from more than 100 attorneys.  BP has accepted responsibility for damage caused by about
4.1 million barrels of crude oil released off the Louisiana
coast from a well ruptured by the explosion and sinking of
Transocean’s Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in April. Most of
the lawsuits are proposed class actions against BP, Transocean
and other companies involved in drilling the well.  They include Halliburton Energy Services Ltd, which
provided well-cementing services, and Cameron International
Corp., which made the blow-out prevention equipment. BP’s
minority partners in the well, Anadarko Petroleum Corp. and
Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., are also defendants in many of the
lawsuits.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig “Deepwater
Horizon” in the Gulf of Mexico, on April 20, 2010. MDL-2179,
U.S. District Courts, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  Lions Gate Conspired to Thwart Hostile Bid, Icahn Says  Carl Icahn, the billionaire investor attempting to take
control of  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. , told a Canadian court
that the independent film studio conspired with several large
shareholders to thwart his bid.  Lions Gate Vice Chairman Michael Burns worked with
investors Mark Rachesky and Kornitzer Capital Management Inc. to
dilute Icahn’s stake in a July transaction, his lawyers argued
in filings to the British Columbia Supreme Court ahead of an
Oct. 12 hearing, citing e-mails from Burns. His argument ignores
much of the evidence, Lions Gate said in its filings.  “The purpose of the scheme devised by Burns and Rachesky,
if it came to fruition as it did, was to significantly dilute
the shareholding interest of Mr. Icahn,” according to the
filing. The aim was “to eliminate any realistic ability to
achieve his stated goal to win a forthcoming proxy contest to
replace the Lions Gate board.”  Icahn is trying to reverse a debt-for-equity swap that
hinders his hostile bid for the studio by putting more shares in
the hands of opponents. Icahn, 74, contends in documents filed
with the court that Lions Gate executives and investors executed
the deal at a price below what Icahn was offering at the time.  Icahn’s argument ignores the bulk of the evidence and the
transaction’s beneficial effects for the company, Lions Gate
said in its own filings. Moody’s cited the deal in raising its
outlook on the Vancouver-based company’s debt to positive.  Kornitzer, who didn’t own the debt personally, said in an
interview that selling it was in the best interest of his
clients.  “It had nothing to do with Mr. Icahn,” Kornitzer said.
“I made my clients money and I got out.”  Rachesky didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.  Lions Gate spokesman Peter Wilkes said the studio had no
comment beyond the documents.  The court has scheduled three days of hearings starting
tomorrow.  For more, click here.  FDIC May Seek $1 Billion From Failed-Bank Executives  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. has authorized lawsuits
against more than 50 officers and directors of failed banks as
the agency aims to recoup more than $1 billion in losses
stemming from the credit crisis.  The lawsuits were authorized during closed sessions of the
FDIC board and haven’t been made public. The agency, which has
shuttered 294 lenders since the start of 2008, has held off
court action while conducting settlement talks with executives
whose actions may have led to bank collapses, Richard Osterman,
the FDIC’s acting general counsel, said in an interview.  “We’re ready to go,” Osterman said. “We could walk into
court tomorrow and file the lawsuits.”  The FDIC, which reviews losses for every bank failure, has
brought only one case against officers or directors tied to
recent collapses -- a suit filed in July seeking $300 million in
damages from four executives of  IndyMac Bancorp Inc.   When a bank fails, the agency’s investigators take about 18
months to complete their autopsies, meaning most of the probes
stemming from the financial crisis are ongoing, Osterman said.  If FDIC investigators determine litigation is possible
early in their review process, they send letters to officers and
directors alerting them that a suit may be coming to recoup a
portion of the losses to the agency’s insurance fund.  For more, click here.  Swatch’s Chief Will Take UBS to Court Over Investments  Swatch Group AG  Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek said the
Swiss watchmaker plans to seek about 30 million Swiss francs
($31 million) in damages from UBS AG in a court case over
investment losses.  “We are not at war with UBS, but we are not in agreement
with what the management and the people did with us,” Hayek
said Oct. 8 in a phone interview. Le Matin, a Swiss newspaper,
put a photo of Hayek on its front page Oct. 8, saying he was
declaring war against the Swiss investment bank.  Swatch, the Biel, Switzerland-based owner of the Omega and
Breguet brands, filed a lawsuit against UBS last month regarding
“absolute return” investments made in 2009 that weren’t
supposed to lose value.  “Since we know that the new management of UBS wants to
change the culture of the company, it would be helpful for them
to give a signal outside,” Hayek said.  UBS spokeswoman Tatiana Togni said the bank doesn’t comment
on ongoing litigation.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Deripaska Can’t Call Russian Crime Expert in U.K. Suit  Oleg Deripaska, formerly Russia’s wealthiest man, lost a
court ruling over presenting expert evidence about Russian
organized crime in a lawsuit brought against him by a former
business partner.  Michael Cherney is suing Deripaska for at least $3 billion
in the  High Court  in London claiming he failed to honor an
agreement concerning stakes in two aluminum companies. Deripaska
is co-owner of Moscow-based  United Co. Rusal , the world’s
biggest aluminum company.  Cherney was a “representative of Russian organized
crime,” who infiltrated his business as part of a “protection
racket,” Deripaska’s lawyer Ali Malek said at a hearing Oct. 8.
Malek said a judge should hear evidence from an organized crime
expert at a trial over the dispute, scheduled to take place in
2012. The expert would testify on the “endemic” criminality
that infected Russian business in the 1990s, he said.  Justice Nigel Teare ruled that expert evidence on the issue
isn’t necessary, as information about the nature of Russian
organized crime doesn’t help to determine whether Cherney was
“part and parcel” of it.  Cherney’s lawyer, David Foxton, said in an interview after
the hearing that his client denies the allegations and has
“nothing to do” with organized crime.  “Mr. Cherney claims to have been a business partner of Mr.
Deripaska and alleges he is entitled to a stake in UC Rusal, for
which he is seeking compensation,” Deripaska’s spokesman David
Osborn said in an e-mailed statement. Cherney’s claim is
“baseless, riddled with holes and contradictory.”  Deripaska will continue to pursue his application to allow
evidence about organized crime to be introduced, the spokesman
said.  The case is 2006-1218 Michael Cherney v. Oleg Deripaska.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Man Pleads Innocent to FSA Insider-Trading Charges  Helmy Omar Sa’aid, a man accused of insider trading by U.K.
market regulator the  Financial Services Authority , pleaded
innocent at a court hearing.  Sa’aid denied 13 charges of insider dealing Oct. 8 at
Southwark Crown Court in London. A trial has been scheduled to
begin Jan. 10.  He is accused of improper trading over a 10-year period in
U.K.-listed stocks such as RCO Holdings Plc, Staffware Plc,
South Staffordshire Plc, and Southern Vectis Plc, according to
the indictment.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Airgas Loses Bid to Invalidate Meeting-Date Bylaw  Airgas Inc. , trying to fend off a $5.5 billion hostile bid
from  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. , lost a bid to invalidate a
new bylaw that shortens the date for the company’s annual
meeting, paving the way for a takeover.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge William B. Chandler III ruled
Oct. 8 that the bylaw, approved by Airgas shareholders last
month, doesn’t improperly shorten directors’ terms on the
industrial-gas company’s staggered board. Air Products may use
the ruling to take control of Airgas at the January meeting.  While the ruling probably will be appealed, the presumption
is that the decision stands, Mark Gulley, a New York-based
analyst at Soleil Securities, said Oct. 9 in a telephone
interview. Court testimony indicates Air Products would pay as
much as $70 a share and Airgas would start negotiations at that
price, he said.  “It would be in the interest of both parties to negotiate
a friendly transaction,” Gulley said. He recommends buying
shares of Air Products and rates Airgas “hold.”  Lawyers for Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Airgas had argued
shareholders erred when they voted Sept. 15 in favor of the
bylaw by Air Products, which moved up the date of Airgas’s
annual meeting. It was backed by Air Products.  David Reno, an Air Products spokesman, and Airgas spokesman
Andrew Siegel both declined to comment on Chandler’s ruling.  The case is Airgas Inc. v. Air Products & Chemicals Inc.,
5817, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Ex-Park Avenue Bank Chief Antonucci Pleads Guilty  Charles Antonucci, the former president of Park Avenue Bank
in Manhattan, pleaded guilty to charges he lied to regulators
and embezzled bank funds.  Antonucci, 59, told U.S. District Judge Naomi Buchwald Oct.
8 that he lied to get more than $11 million in federal bailout
funds for the bank, took bribes and embezzled money and
participated in a scheme to defraud Oklahoma insurance
regulators in the $37.5 million sale of an insurer that was
later forced into receivership.  Prosecutors said Antonucci is the first person convicted of
trying to defraud the U.S. Troubled Asset Relief Program, which
was passed by Congress to prop up threatened banks. Antonucci
pleaded guilty to criminal counts including fraud, bribery,
embezzlement and conspiracy.  Antonucci, who was arrested in March, is free on $2 million
bail. He faces as much as 20 years in prison on the most serious
counts when he’s sentenced in April.  The case is U.S. v. Antonucci, 10-cr-507, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  O2, Vodafone Lose U.K. Ruling to Free Up 3G Spectrum  Telefonica SA ’s O2 and  Vodafone Group Plc  lost a U.K. court
bid to start using their second-generation wireless spectrum for
newer smartphones such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone to improve data
capacity.  A European Union directive to start using the 900 and 1800
megahertz bands for 3G technology doesn’t oblige the U.K. to
change O2’s and Vodafone’s licenses before studying how the move
would affect competition, according to a ruling Oct. 7 by the
 Competition Appeal Tribunal  in London.  “We are naturally disappointed,” Telefonica spokesman
David Nicholas said in an e-mail. “We believe EU legislation
gives us the immediate right to use 2G spectrum for 3G services.
Speedy liberalization is in the best interest of U.K.
consumers.”  The breadth and speed of a service can help operators gain
market share as users shift their phones onto more reliable
networks. Vodafone slipped to the U.K.’s No. 3 provider after
 France Telecom SA ’s Orange and  Deutsche Telekom AG ’s T-Mobile
units merged to form a company called Everything Everywhere.  O2 appealed after Britain’s telecommunications regulator,
 Ofcom , denied its request to let it use 3G technology on the 900
megahertz band in anticipation of the EU directive. Everything
Everywhere and Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s U.K. unit, which use the
1800 megahertz airwave, backed Ofcom in the case.  The tribunal “found that Ofcom was right in its view of the
correct interpretation of the European law on the liberalization
of the 900 and 1800 MHz spectrum, contrary to the position taken
by O2,” Ofcom spokesman Rhys Hurd said in a statement.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court Filings  Airgas Lawsuit Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  Airgas Inc. , which is trying to fend off a $5.5 billion
hostile bid from  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. , had the most-
read litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system last week.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge William B. Chandler III is
hearing the trial, which began Oct. 4 in Georgetown.  Chandler is presiding over the trial of Air Products’
lawsuit over Airgas’s refusal to accept a takeover offer of
$65.50 a share. Air Products, based in Allentown, Pennsylvania,
is the second-biggest U.S. industrial-gases producer behind
 Praxair Inc.   The cases are Air Products & Chemicals Inc. v. Airgas Inc.,
5249, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington); and Airgas Inc. v.
Air Products & Chemicals Inc., 5817, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 