-- Fed’s Hoenig Urges ‘Force and Clarity’ on Financial Oversight
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2010-10-11T01:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/fed-s-hoenig-urges-force-and-clarity-on-financial-oversight.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City
President  Thomas Hoenig  said the overhaul of U.S. financial
regulation hasn’t settled the problem of large U.S. bank
bailouts, and regulators need to further tighten rules.  “The act outlines a method to resolve our largest firms,
and I am hopeful that it will be implemented with force and
clarity,” Hoenig said today in a speech in Washington. “The
reality is that unless the rules are written so tightly that
there remains no bailout option, we cannot be confident that
‘too big to fail’ has ended.”  President  Barack Obama  signed into law in July the biggest
overhaul of Wall Street oversight since the Great Depression,
including new protections for consumers and investors in the
wake of the 2008 credit crisis.  Higher capital rules in the law as well as international
standards from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision are a
“good start” in boosting capital, Hoenig said in a lecture
honoring William Taylor, a former head of supervision at  the Fed 
involved in combating the banking crises of the 1980s and early
1990s. The Kansas City Fed published a biography of Taylor
earlier this year.  The regulatory changes are intended to prevent a repeat of
the crisis that prompted bailouts such as the $182.3 billion
rescue of insurer  American International Group Inc. , in which
the Fed took part, and $700 billion in taxpayer aid to companies
including Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp.  The law creates a new consumer financial protection bureau
at the central bank, gives regulators new powers to liquidate
failing financial firms whose collapse would threaten the
economy and sets up a council of regulators to monitor systemic
risks.  Hoenig didn’t comment on the U.S. economic outlook or
monetary policy in his remarks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in St. Louis at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  