-- Federal Reserve May Boost Bond Purchases on Weak U.S. Jobs Data, UBS Says
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-11T01:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/federal-reserve-may-boost-bond-purchases-on-weak-u-s-jobs-data-ubs-says.html
U.S. job losses will lead the
Federal Reserve to increase Treasury purchases at its meeting
next month, though not enough to send yields down, UBS AG said.  The Federal Open Market Committee will announce plans to
buy $35 billion to $65 billion of debt a month at the Nov. 2-3
session,  Mansoor Mohi-uddin , head of global currency strategy in
Singapore, wrote to clients today. The Fed will buy that amount
over one quarter and then review the policy, the note said.  “The FOMC announcement will disappoint the bond market
that has priced in aggressive new Treasury purchases,” Mohi-
uddin wrote. UBS is one of the 18 primary dealers that are
required to bid at the government debt sales.  Central bank Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his fellow policy
makers are debating whether to increase Treasury purchases to
spur the U.S. economy by keeping borrowing costs low. The U.S.
economy lost 95,000 jobs in September, the Labor Department
reported on Oct. 8, underscoring the need to stimulate growth.  Treasury five-year  yields  declined to a record 1.0686
percent on Oct. 8 as the employment figures fueled speculation
the Fed is about to increase its debt purchases, a strategy know
as quantitative easing. Trading in Treasuries was closed today
in observance of Columbus Day in the U.S.  “The two currencies that seem to be the best near-term
bets for dollar bears ahead of the November FOMC meeting are the
Australian dollar and the Swiss franc,” the report said.  Australia’s currency rose 0.2 percent to 98.69 U.S. cents
as of 10:21 a.m. in Tokyo. The Swiss franc was at 0.9635 per
dollar versus 0.9628 on Oct. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 