-- Fiat Appoints Altavilla to Run Iveco as Monferino Takes Political Position
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2010-10-11T16:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/fiat-s-altavilla-said-to-become-iveco-chief-executive-replacing-monferino.html
Alfredo Altavilla , head of  Fiat
SpA ’s powertrain division, will replace  Paolo Monferino  as chief
executive officer of the Iveco truck unit that’s being spun off
from Italy’s largest manufacturer.  Monferino, 63, will become head of health services for
Italy’s Piedmont region, Fiat said in a statement today.
Altavilla, 47, will also keep his current position, according to
a spokesman for the Turin, Italy-based automaker.  Iveco, along with agricultural-equipment maker  CNH Global
NV , is one of the industrial operations Fiat is carving out to
allow it to focus on carmaking after buying 20 percent of
Chrysler Group LLC last year. Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said on Sept. 16 that the CEOs of Iveco and CNH would
jointly run Fiat Industrial SpA, the new company that will be
listed on the Milan stock exchange Jan. 3.  “Altavilla, who worked closely with Marchionne in his most
important international deals, will help Fiat Industrial to
pursue strategic alliances,” said  Alessandro Frigerio , a fund
manager at RMJ Sgr in Milan.  Altavilla, whose father owned a Lancia car dealership in
the port town of Taranto, joined Fiat in 1990 to manage product
development, international ventures and strategic planning.  China, India  He ran the Beijing office and helped integrate Indian
operations after Fiat bought out a licensee. He has led business
development since 2001 and in 2002 took over parts of a venture
with  General Motors Corp. , primarily supplying engines for Opels
and Saabs. Fiat negotiated a $2 billion payoff from GM for
ending the partnership.  “Altavilla is a manager who has the absolute trust of
Marchionne,” said  Marco Santino , a consultant at A.T. Kearney
in Rome, which has worked for Fiat on supply-chain operations.
“He’s the top candidate to run Fiat Industrial after the
spinoff.”  Marchionne eventually added all the company’s alliances to
Altavilla’s area of responsibility and sent him to Turkey to
oversee models for emerging markets, including a van built with
 PSA Peugeot Citroen . Altavilla helped Fiat increase earnings by
boosting output in a country with cheaper labor.  Marchionne then created the $10 billion-a-year powertrain
division and put Altavilla in charge of reorganizing its
operations.  Operating profit  more than doubled in the first full
year after he took charge, according to Fiat reports. Altavilla
now oversees technology for Multi Air engines, which reduce
emissions.  Chrysler Board  Altavilla joined the Chrysler board last year. He was also
named executive vice president of business development of the
Fiat Group in October 2009.  Monferino, who joined Fiat in 1973 as an engineer, was
named head of Iveco in February 2005. He was CEO of CNH Global
for the previous five years.  Fiat  rose  for a third day, gaining 21 cents, to 1.42 euros
at the 5:30 p.m. close in Milan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  