-- Foreign Pressure on Yuan May Prove `Counterproductive,' China Adviser Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-11T04:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/foreign-pressure-on-yuan-may-prove-counterproductive-china-adviser-says.html
China’s policy makers can accept a
gradual pace of appreciation in the yuan, though foreign
pressure for gains may prove “counterproductive,” according to
 Li Daokui , a central bank adviser.  Most Chinese “are willing to discuss and willing to
accommodate gradual appreciation of the renminbi, both in real
and nominal terms,” Li told Bloomberg Television in an
interview in Washington. “Nobody in the world, including the
Americans, is willing to accept any policy adjustments from
outside. It’s counterproductive to force policy changes from
outside.”  Chinese people are “very unhappy” about a potential
general accord aimed at China, Li said, citing 1985’s Plaza
Accord, which led to a strengthening of the yen and Japan’s
economic problems. He was appointed in March as one of three
academic advisers to the People’s Bank of China.  Debate about competitive devaluations dominated meetings of
finance ministers and central bankers gathered for the
International Monetary Fund’s annual meeting in Washington.
China faces demands from Western nations to let the yuan rise
more quickly at a time when the U.S. is trying to trim its trade
deficit and European nations are seeking to stem an outflow of
manufacturing jobs.  The Chinese yuan, also called the renminbi, traded little
changed at 6.6706 a dollar as of 12 p.m. in Shanghai today,
after touching 6.6645, the strongest level since the end of 1993.
The currency has risen 2.3 percent against the greenback since
June 19, when the central bank said it would allow greater
flexibility in the exchange rate after keeping it at about 6.83
for almost two years.  Free Trade  Most leaders in the world agree free trade is still the
biggest engine for economic growth, and the threat of a trade
war isn’t likely, according to Li, who’s a professor at the
Beijing-based Tsinghua University and has a Harvard University
Ph.D in economics. “If we lose free trade, it’s a loss to
everybody. The rationality is still there,” he said.  China would support a new round of “quantitative easing”
by the Federal Reserve if such a measure could help create jobs
in the U.S., according to Li. The policy, under which the Fed
injects funds into the economy by purchasing assets, “might be
counterproductive” should it spur an exodus of capital to
developing nations including China, he added.  -- Sara Eisen ,  Belinda Cao . Editors:  James Regan ,  Simon Harvey   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  