-- Foreclosure Freeze May Sideline U.S. Homebuyers on Legal Concern
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y   a n d   D a n   L e v y
-- 2010-10-11T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/foreclosure-freeze-may-sideline-u-s-homebuyers-as-legal-worry-cuts-sales.html
A halt in home foreclosures at the
largest U.S. mortgage firms may sideline buyers worried about
legal issues, further depressing sales at a time when distressed
properties account for almost a quarter of all transactions.  Revelations of mistakes in foreclosure proceedings are
causing buyers to have misgivings about property titles, the
right of home possession, said  Richard DeKaser , chief economist
at Woodley Park Research in  Washington . Confidence in the
legality of repossessions will cut foreclosure sales more than a
reduction of available properties because the market already is
flooded with repossessed homes, he said.  “The legal problems we’re seeing will hit sales as people
worry about the legitimacy of the process,” DeKaser said. “The
implications are that there’s been shoddy work.”    Bank of America Corp ., the largest U.S. lender, extended a
freeze on foreclosures to all 50 states Oct. 8 as concern spread
among federal and state officials that homes are being seized
based on faulty data. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Ally Financial
Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage unit stopped repossession cases in 23
states where courts supervise home seizures, amid allegations
that employees submitted documents with unverified or false
information to speed the process.    Nevada ,  Arizona   Foreclosure sales accounted for 24 percent of all home
transactions during the second quarter, according to a Sept. 30
report by  RealtyTrac Inc. , an Irvine, California-based data
seller. They made up a greater share in the states hardest-hit
by the housing crisis, accounting for 56 percent of purchases in
Nevada, 47 percent in Arizona and 43 percent in  California .  In Florida,  Massachusetts ,  Michigan  and  Rhode Island , the
share was about a third.  Some indicators show the U.S. real estate market had turned
a corner in August. The number of contracts to purchase
previously owned homes increased 4.3 percent, the second monthly
gain, according to an Oct. 4 report from the National
Association of Realtors. Sales of previously owned homes rose to
an annual pace 4.13 million, up 7.6 percent from July’s record
low, the Chicago-based group said last month. September sales
likely won’t be affected by the foreclosure legal problems.  “Our preliminary review of September foreclosure activity
doesn’t show any obvious or notable impact,” said  Rick Sharga ,
senior vice president of RealtyTrac. The effects may show up in
the October data, he said.  PNC Halt  In addition to the freezes by Bank of America, JPMorgan and
GMAC,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc . halted sales of
foreclosed homes for a month to review documents in its mortgage
servicing procedures, according to an Oct. 4 memo the bank sent
to lawyers handling the lender’s foreclosures.  Litton Loan Servicing LP, a mortgage-servicing business
owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., said last week it’s stopping
some foreclosures to review how they’re handled. Vickee Adams, a
spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo & Co., and  Mark
Rodgers , a spokesman for Citigroup Inc. in  New York , said the
companies are still processing foreclosures.  A reduction in foreclosure sales may result in a short-term
boost to the nation’s median home price as buyers shy away from
distressed properties, said Thomas Lawler, founder and president
of Lawler Housing and Economic Consulting in Leesburg, Virginia.  In the second quarter, distressed homes -- those that had
received a default or auction notice or were seized banks --
sold at an average 26 percent discount to properties not in the
foreclosure process, according to RealtyTrac.  Temporary Boost  Any short-term boost to prices may be offset when a flood
of properties are offered for sale after document problems are
sorted out, Lawler said.  “Some people are breathing a short-term sigh of relief
because the likelihood of distressed sales putting downward
pressure on  home prices  has been put off,” Lawler said. “But no
one is breathing a long-term sigh of relief because when these
properties eventually come on the market, we’ll have both the
confidence problem and the price problem.”  U.S. home seizures climbed to records in three of the last
five months, RealtyTrac said Sept. 16. Banks seized 95,364 homes
in August and issued foreclosure filings to 338,836 owners, or
one of every 381 U.S. households, according to the company.  It isn’t known how many loans are included in the national
review by Bank of America, said Sharga. Before the Oct. 8
announcement, as many as 200,000 properties were included in the
23-state freeze by the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank, New
York-based JPMorgan and GMAC of  Detroit , he said.  ‘No Excuse’  “The broader concern is that if banks took shortcuts here,
what else did they do?” Sharga said. “Five years into this
crisis, there’s no excuse for not having a process in place.”  A study of foreclosure court documents by Richard Kessler,
an attorney in Sarasota,  Florida , found errors such as missing
or improperly handled documents in about three-fourths of the
cases. The mistakes may allow former owners and other claimants
to contest the legality of pending and previously completed
foreclosures, he said.  Ownership questions may not arise until a home is under
contract and the potential purchaser applies for title
insurance, or even decades later as one deed researcher catches
errors overlooked by another. A so-called defective title means
the person who paid for and moved into a house may not be the
legal owner.  In cases of lost or mishandled paperwork, attorneys in many
cases are allowed to refile documents to correct omissions and
establish a claim, said Kathleen Engel, a financial-services law
professor at Suffolk University in  Boston .  Most of the homes affected by the foreclosure freeze will
eventually come on to the market because the dispute is about
court documents, not about whether borrowers defaulted, said
Lawler, the housing economist.  “Most of the delays will just be delays,” Lawler said. “All
this is doing is creating severe uncertainty for people who were
thinking of buying a distressed property.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 