-- Fortescue Metals Rises to Highest in Two Years After New Loan Deal Signed
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-10-11T05:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/fortescue-metals-rises-to-highest-in-two-years-after-new-loan-deal-signed.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. ,
Australia’s third-biggest producer of iron ore, rose to the
highest in two years in Sydney trading after signing a $2.04
billion loan agreement to expand mining operations.  Fortescue closed up 7.8 percent at A$6.25 on the Australian
stock exchange. That’s its highest since Sept. 24, 2008. The
Perth-based company has gained 41 percent this year.  The loan, agreed with JPMorgan Chase & Co and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, replaces project-based notes and matures in
2015 with an initial interest rate of 7.5 percent linked to the
London interbank offered rate, or Libor. The refinancing will
allow Fortescue freedom to implement the expansion plan for its
Solomon and Western Hub projects in Western Australia, Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Forrest  said yesterday in a statement.  The refinancing will “free them up to develop Solomon more
quickly,” said Royal Bank of Scotland Plc analyst  Lyndon Fagan .
“It would be value accretive bringing Solomon forward
particularly if they can capture the current higher iron ore
 prices .”  Fitch Ratings Ltd. today gave Fortescue a BB+ long-term
credit rating, its highest non-investment grade. The ratings
company said it recognized Fortescue’s “substantial mining
assets which exhibit good potential for future growth.”  Earlier this year,  Fortescue  outlined plans to expand
production to 155 million metric tons of annual output by fiscal
2014 from 40 million tons through development of Solomon and the
Western Hub, as well as a longer-term expansion to 355 million
tons.  The project notes, which will be redeemed within a month at
a premium of $650 million, were issued in August 2006 so the
company could construct its initial mine, port and rail
infrastructure.  Leucadia Notes  The refinancing announcement doesn’t affect Fortescue’s
relationship with Leucadia National Corp., Fortescue’s third-
largest investor. The companies are in dispute over a separate
debt note.  Under the terms of Leucadia’s note, agreed in 2006,
Leucadia is entitled to interest of 4 percent of sales, net of
government royalties, from the iron ore produced from
Fortescue’s Cloud Break and Christmas Creek mines, according to
a regulatory filing.  “Solomon wouldn’t fall under the Leucadia note
structure,” making a faster development attractive, said Fagan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  