-- French Industrial Production Unchanged in August, Stalling After July Gain
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-10-11T08:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/french-industrial-production-unchanged-in-august-stalling-after-july-gain.html
French  industrial production 
unexpectedly stalled in August, suggesting a recovery in the
euro region’s second-largest economy is losing momentum.  The increase in output in July was revised lower to 0.8
percent from the 0.9 percent originally reported, Paris-based
national statistics office Insee said today. Economists had
forecast a 0.3 percent increase in August, according to the
median of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Output 
climbed 3.2 percent from a year earlier.  French companies may rein in spending as a stronger euro
makes their goods less competitive abroad just as the global
recovery weakens. In the euro-region economy,  manufacturing
growth  weakened for a second month in September. The European
Commission said last month that the French economy will lose
momentum in the second half of the year.  “The entire euro region will expand at a weaker pace in
the second half than in the previous six months,” said
 Sebastian Wanke , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “The
French situation is still relatively robust. We’ll see weaker
growth rates, but it’s more of a normalization.”  The lack of growth in French industrial production
contrasted with neighboring Italy, where output jumped 1.6
percent from July, the biggest increase since January, the
national statistics office said in a report today. German
production rose 1.7 percent in August from the previous month, a
report last week showed.  French  manufacturing  output, which excludes utilities and
mining, remained unchanged from July, when it rose 1.2 percent,
today’s report showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  