-- French Unions Threaten Open-Ended Strikes Over Pensions
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-10-12T09:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/french-unions-threaten-open-ended-strikes-to-press-sarkozy-on-pension-plan.html
French workers are demonstrating
today for the fourth time in five weeks in nationwide marches,
disrupting rail and air traffic as labor unions threaten open-
ended strikes to press President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to scrap his
pension-system overhaul.  Railway and Paris subway workers and as well as teachers,
air-traffic controllers and port and refinery employees walked
out to protest plans to raise the retirement age to 62 from 60
and lift the age for a full pension to  67 from 65 . Unions, which
warn they may renew the strike every 24 hours unless the
government backs down, said 244 marches will take place across
France today in cities including Toulouse, Marseille and Nantes.  “The government is forcing us to step up our actions
because it’s made no move after the other days of protest,”
 Francois Chereque , head of the CFDT labor union, said on  France
2  television. “I am sending a last call to the government:
listen to our demands.”  Three rallies since Sept. 7 that brought hundreds of
thousands of protesters onto the streets failed to derail
Sarkozy’s retirement proposals. The government says the changes
are needed to help France cope with an aging population and help
balance the pension system’s budget by 2018. Labor unions called
for more demonstrations on Oct. 16.  Senate Debate  While  the government  will make some changes to the bill,
including a measure to ensure that parents who interrupted their
careers to raise children won’t be penalized, Sarkozy’s plan is
likely to win final parliamentary passage before the end of the
month, Raymond Soubie, the president’s aide, said on Oct. 8.  The bill, approved by the  National Assembly  last month, was
being debated late yesterday in the Senate. The upper chamber of
Parliament has already approved the parts of the legislation
raising the retirement age and the full pension age.  “Even if a text is voted in, we can always hope the
government won’t enact it,”  Force Ouvriere  union Secretary
General Jean-Claude Mailly told France Info radio  yesterday .  Chereque said unions have proposals to revise the bill that
the government refuses to consider. The plan to raise the full
pension age should be postponed until after 2016, he said.  Luc Chatel , the government spokesman, disagreed.  “We need this reform to save our system,” he said
yesterday on France 2. He declined to say whether Sarkozy would
make more changes to the bill. “The text has been modified with
about 10 amendments,” Chatel said, dismissing allegations by
unions and the political opposition “that the government
doesn’t want to change anything.”  Public Support  A survey in yesterday’s  Le Parisien  newspaper showed 69
percent of the respondents support today’s protest and 61
percent said they favor an open-ended strike. The Paris-based
 pollster CSA  called 1,011 adults on Oct. 6-7 and gave no margin
of error.  France’s aviation authority  advised carriers to cut half of
their flights to and from Paris Orly airport and a third to and
from Roissy Charles de Gaulle because of the air-traffic
controllers’ strike. The  Lyon airport  canceled 21 percent of its
flights it said on its web site.  Air France-KLM Group  said the protest won’t affect its
long-haul flights, while some European and domestic flights will
be canceled or delayed.  Ryanair Holdings Plc  said it’s canceling
250 French flights today.  Eurostar, Thalys  Eurostar  trains to the U.K. are operating normally and
eight of 10 Thalys trains to Belgium, the Netherlands and
certain German cities are running, national railway operator
SNCF said in a  statement  on its website. Half of the Lyria
trains to Geneva and Zurich are running, while all high-speed
trains to Italy and Spain have been canceled.  About 40 percent of SNCF workers are on strike, up from 37
percent on Sept. 23, the railway operator said. The Ministry of
Education said 27 percent of its workforce is on strike.  A third of the  high-speed trains  between Paris and the
south of France are running, as are half of those between the
capital and the north. Local and regional trains have been
disrupted.  Paris metro  lines are operating more smoothly than
predicted yesterday as UNSA, one of the labor unions at the
operator, opted not to strike. Trains on line 12 and two-thirds
of those on line 10 run and the rest of the metro system are
slightly disturbed or working normally, according to information
on the RATP operator’s website.  Utilities Join In  The RER B commuter train, which  connects  Orly and Charles
de Gaulle airports, will face the most disruption, with no
trains running inside Paris, forcing travelers to take other
transportation. RER A commuter trains are running, the RATP
operator said on its website.  Workers at refineries and gas and electricity plants joined
the strike. Employees at the oil terminal at the port of
Marseille, who have been on strike for the past 15 days because
of the government’s plan to revamp the ports system, joined in.  The walkout is affecting refineries owned by Total SA,
Ineos Group Holding Plc and LyondellBasell Industries NV,
according to the CGT union. Electricite de France SA’s nuclear
output dropped by 5,000 megawatts today, said  Marie-Claire Cailletaud , a CGT spokeswoman.  Workers at seven of the country’s 12 refineries voted to
strike today and others may follow,  CGT  representative  Charles Foulard  said by telephone. Deliveries to and from plants on
strike will be blocked and refining rates reduced, he said.  Unions said 2.9 million people across France demonstrated
on Oct. 2 against the proposed pension measures, which would
increase taxes on households and companies to plug the deficit
of the country’s pay-as-you-go retirement system. Police put the
number of protesters at 899,000. A Sept. 23 rally drew between
997,000 and 3 million protesters, according to figures released
by the government and unions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  