-- Marseille Port Strike Continues; Fuel Shipped Overland as Refineries Shut
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2010-10-11T15:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/fuel-shipped-overland-as-marseille-port-strike-enters-15th-day.html
A strike by workers at the French
port of Marseille’s oil terminals entered its 15th day, forcing
the government to transport fuel by road and rail to avoid
shortages as refineries in the region began shutting down.  “Trucks moved yesterday to ensure gasoline and oil
supplies are available around the country,”  Luc Chatel , a
government spokesman, said in an interview on France 2
television today. “The SNCF is also going to ensure there is a
minimum service so fuel products circulate.”  Unions have called a broader nationwide strike starting
tomorrow for refineries, gas, electricity utilities and railway
operator SNCF against government plans to raise the retirement
age. Workers have blocked traffic at the Fos and Lavera oil
terminals at Marseille for more than two weeks to protest a 2008
overhaul of France’s ports system.  “The government deplores the blockade because the reform
is important to modernize the ports,” Chatel said, referring to
the 2008 law aimed at moving port workers to the private sector
and raising productivity at French harbors.  Total SA continued the process of halting the crude-
distillation unit at its La Mede refinery, started yesterday for
lack of crude oil,  Michael Crochet-Vourey , a company spokesman,
said by phone today. Total’s  Feyzin  refinery is operating at
“minimal rate” due to lack of crude supplies, he said.  Fifty-six ships remained stranded outside the port of
Marseille, three more than yesterday, said  Claire Battedou , a
spokeswoman for the port authority, via phone today.  Oil Terminals  The oil terminals will be affected by the strike until at
least Oct. 13, according to Battedou. Cargo terminals at Fos and
Marseille were in operation today, with two container vessels
and seven cargo and roll-on-roll-off vessels, as well as six
barges being discharged or loaded, the port said in a statement.  All terminals are expected to be shut tomorrow as workers
participate in the national strike, Battedou said. “There will
be nothing, everything will be closed,” she said.  Gasoline prices  in the benchmark Rotterdam-Amsterdam-
Antwerp barge market advanced to five-month highs. Eurobob grade
traded at as much as $772 a metric ton today, the highest price
since April 30.  The strike action may yet affect other French refineries
than those supplied by Marseille, with “widespread disruption”
expected tomorrow, analysts at JPMorgan & Chase Co. said in a
note to investors today.  ‘Distressed Sale’  “The impact from ongoing disruption to refinery operations
in southern France is likely to force the prompt, or even
distressed sale of excess crude volumes,” they said.  The French refiners’ organization, Union Francaise des
Industries Petrolieres, has said fuel supply problems for
consumers could start Oct. 18 because of the port strike, which
has cost crude processers “tens of millions of euros.”  Total, Exxon Mobil Corp., Ineos Group Holdings Plc and
LyondellBasell Industries NV have plants in southeastern France
that together account for 31 percent of French refining
capacity.  The Marseille docks have experienced stoppages in recent
years as unions have resisted efforts to transfer public-sector
jobs to private companies.  A 12-day strike at the oil hub in December 2008 cost
refineries 26 million euros ($36 million), including 15 million
euros related to vessel delays and 11 million euros in lost
revenue, UFIP estimated at the time. A strike at the oil
terminals in March 2007 lasted 17 days.  The following table shows the refineries directly and
indirectly affected by the Marseille port strike. Capacity is in
barrels a day. The Cressier refinery is in Switzerland.  *T Company          Location     Capacity    Status  DIRECTLY AFFECTED  Total            La Mede      157,000     Halting of crude-  distillation unit  started Oct. 10.  Exxon Mobil      Fos          119,000     Runs at minimum on  limited crude oil  supplies.  Ineos            Lavera       218,000     Reduced production.  LyondellBasell   Berre        105,000     Operating. Company  declined to say at  what rate.  INDIRECTLY AFFECTED  Total            Feyzin       115,000     Runs at minimum  rates on lack of  crude supplies,  company said Oct. 11  Petroplus        Reichstett    81,000     Runs at minimum  rates, UFIP said  Oct.7.  Petroplus        Cressier      68,000     Runs at minimum  rates, UFIP said  Oct. 7. *T  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 