-- Gas Power Plant Investment in Australia May Double on Carbon, Fitch Says
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-11T21:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/gas-power-plant-investment-in-australia-may-double-on-carbon-fitch-says.html
Spending on new gas-fired power
generation in Australia may almost double to A$14.7 billion
($14.5 billion) in the next six years if the nation imposes a
price on carbon emissions, according to Fitch Ratings.  “Even in the absence of a carbon price,” as much as A$7.8
billion may be invested in gas-fired plants during that period,
Fitch said in a report today. The spending may be financed with
debt of about A$2.9 billion and A$4.9 billion in share sales,
according to the study by analysts including Arnon Musiker.  “If all, or a large proportion of this potential
investment were to be funded by debt, the generation sector’s
credit quality would deteriorate,” the report said. “However,
Fitch believes that most corporate borrowers in the sector have
credit ratings that they would defend.” Those companies would
use both debt and equity to fund the projects, it said.  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has set up a
committee to study options for introducing a price on carbon to
curb greenhouse gas emissions in a country where coal accounts
for more than 80 percent of power production. The multi party
group, which met for the first time last week, is considering a
cap-and-trade system, a carbon tax, or a blend of both.  “The expectation of carbon pricing seems sufficiently high
to deter large-scale investment in new coal-fired plants,”
according to the Sydney-based analysts at Fitch.  Continuing doubts about whether the government will price
carbon emissions would threaten spending, including as much as
A$3 billion Melbourne-based power supplier TRUenergy Holdings
Pty is ready to invest in gas-fired electricity generation, the
company’s Managing Director  Richard McIndoe  said last month.  TRUenergy operates the Yallourn coal-fired power station,
which supplies 22 percent of Victoria state’s electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at   jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 