-- Gates Says U.S. Committed to Asian Security Amid China Claims
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-10-11T12:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/gates-rejects-china-demand-for-u-s-to-stay-out-of-asian-maritime-disputes.html
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
accepted an invitation to visit China early next year as the
world’s biggest militaries sought to mend ties strained by U.S.
arms sales to Taiwan and support for other Asian allies.  China’s Defense Minister General  Liang Guanglie  made the
offer in a “very candid and constructive” meeting with Gates,
said Guan Youfei, deputy director of the Foreign Affairs Office
of China’s  Ministry of National Defense . It was the first high-
level contact between the militaries since Beijing cut their
relations over a proposal to sell weapons to Taiwan in January.  China will work to lift military ties with the U.S. “out
of the current on-again, off-again cycle” and enable “a track
of stable and steady development,” Guan told reporters in Hanoi,
where a regional security meeting takes place tomorrow. “Issues
such as U.S. arms sales to Taiwan are important impediments to a
wider and deeper” relationship, he said.  The commitment to more talks with the U.S. came as Liang
met separately with counterparts from Vietnam and Japan after
Chinese run-ins with their vessels in disputed waters last month
raised tensions in key shipping lanes. Gates reassured Asian
countries that the U.S. remains committed to the region’s
security, and pushed for multilateral solutions to disputes amid
rising tension over China’s territorial claims.  “We border the Pacific Ocean; we have long-term interests
here,” Gates said in a speech to military officials and
students at Vietnam National University in Hanoi today. “All
Asia can be confident” that the U.S. intends “to be an active
participant, not only in economic and political matters, but
also in defense and security,” he said.  ‘Liaison System’  Liang and Japan’s Defense Minister,  Toshimi Kitazawa ,
agreed in a meeting today to create a liaison system to prevent
conflicts at sea, Agence France-Presse reported, citing Jiji
Press. Two Chinese patrol boats withdrew on Oct. 5 from disputed
seas administered by Japan a month after a maritime collision
sparked a diplomatic feud between Asia’s two largest economies.  Liang met yesterday with Vietnamese Communist Party
Secretary General  Nong Duc Manh  and Defense Minister  Phung Quang Thanh  to discuss deepening military ties, state-run Xinhua
reported. Vietnam last week urged China to release a fishing
boat and crew detained close to islands claimed by several
neighboring countries.  China has resisted committing to a code of conduct with the
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations  for disputed regional
waters and is expanding its navy to project power beyond its
borders, according to an August report by the U.S. Defense
Department. It aims to solve all territorial disputes in one-on-
one negotiations with claimant states.  Common Interest  “Relying exclusively on bilateral relationships isn’t
enough -- we need multilateral institutions in order to confront
the most important security challenges in this region,” Gates
said. “The U.S. and Vietnam, as well as other nations in the
region, also share a common interest in maritime security and
freedom of access to the global commons.”  China, Taiwan, Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines and
Brunei hold claims to islands in the South China Sea. At a Sept.
24 summit, Obama and Asean leaders “reaffirmed the importance
of regional peace and stability, maritime security, unimpeded
commerce, and freedom of navigation,” according to a  statement .  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  raised China’s hackles
in July when she called settling territorial disputes off
China’s southern coast “a leading diplomatic priority.” The
comments were “virtually an attack on China,” Foreign Minister
 Yang Jiechi  said at the time.  U.S. Debt  The talks with Gates coincide with resumed maritime
consultations between the U.S. and China scheduled for this week
in Hawaii, Defense Department spokesman  Geoff Morrell  told
reporters Oct. 6.  China has opposed U.S. naval exercises in waters off its
shores, and Chinese general  Luo Yuan  in August said that the
government could retaliate through its holdings of $846.7
billion in U.S. Treasury securities. China is the biggest
foreign holder of U.S. government debt.  The U.S. is concerned about China’s “tremendous
investment” in maritime forces and “very aggressive” behavior
off its East Coast, Admiral  Mike Mullen , chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff and President  Barack Obama ’s top military
adviser, told reporters on Sept. 29.  The weaponry Taiwan planned to buy includes  Lockheed Martin
Corp.  Patriot missiles valued at $2.8 billion,  United
Technologies Corp.  UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters worth $3.1
billion, and  Boeing Co.  Harpoon missiles costing $37 million.
China had said it planned to punish the companies involved.  Defense Spend  China announced in March it would spend 532.1 billion yuan
($79.6 billion) on defense this year; the Pentagon estimates
that actual Chinese military spending is twice that amount. The
Pentagon has requested a total of $708 billion for its
operations, including money for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan,
for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1.  The talks between Asean defense ministers and counterparts
from the U.S., China, Australia, New Zealand, India, Japan,
South Korea and Russia are the first ever. Gates said the U.S.
was an “enthusiastic participant” in the meeting and called
for nations to discuss maritime security and “peacefully
resolving issues.”  Military ties between the U.S. and China have faltered even
as Obama seeks better relations on a range of issues including
trade, climate change and defense. Obama is preparing to host
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  for a state visit in Washington,
possibly in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  