-- Citadel, General Growth, American Safety: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-10-11T12:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/general-growth-american-safety-schutt-inquirer-bankruptcy.html
Citadel Broadcasting Corp. , a Las
Vegas-based owner of 224 radio stations, violated the terms of
the confirmed reorganization plan by making stock awards to the
chief executive officer and board, R2 Investments LDC alleged in
a bankruptcy court filing last week.  R2, which supported the Citadel Chapter 11 plan implemented
in June, says that management and directors gave themselves
stock worth $110 million while the plan only permitted granting
options to vest over three years at strike prices equaling the
market or higher.  R2 said the stock grants to management and directors were a
“shocking display of corporate greed and dishonesty.” The
creditor said that whether to issue stock or options to
management was a “hotly contested topic during the bankruptcy
process.”  R2 wants the bankruptcy judge at a Nov. 3 hearing to
enforce the plan and compel the stock to be given back.
Otherwise, Citadel will stand as a “blueprint for all other
management teams to emulate in order to loot company coffers.”
R2 called the stock awards “one of the most egregious frauds by
a company emerging from bankruptcy under Chapter 11.”  The papers by R2, filed Oct. 6, say that stock awards cost
creditors 7.5 percent of the value of the shares they received
under the reorganization plan that was confirmed on May 19.  R2 contends that Chief Executive Officer  Farid Suleman 
received $55 million in stock while each board member was given
stock worth $1.35 million.  R2 reserved the right to seek revocation of plan
confirmation on account of fraud. A call to a lawyer at Kirkland
& Ellis LLP, attorneys for Citadel, was  returned.  The predicted recovery for Citadel’s secured creditors was
82 percent. For unsecured creditors, it was 36 percent. For
details on the plan, click here for the May 18 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  Citadel has operations in more than 50 markets. It filed a
prepackaged Chapter 11 petition in January. The creditors’
committee supported the plan after a settlement improving
treatment of unsecured creditors. Citadel and subsidiaries
listed assets of $1.4 billion against debt totaling $2.46
billion. Citadel is the third-largest radio station owner in the
U.S., with 166 FM and 58 AM stations.  After emergence from Chapter 11, Citadel stock traded
sporadically in the over-the-counter market. The last reported
trade was $22.88 on Oct. 8.  The case is Citadel Broadcasting Corp., 09-17442, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Updates  UBS Beats Back Opposition to Underwriting for GGP  General Growth Properties Inc.  received approval from the
bankruptcy judge on Oct. 8 for financing to accompany approval
of the Chapter 11 plan scheduled for an Oct. 21 confirmation
hearing. For Bloomberg coverage of the hearing, click here.  The U.S. Trustee objected to allowing UBS Securities LLC to
serve as an underwriter and lender in part of the so-called exit
financing. The U.S. Trustee contended UBS didn’t meet the
requirement of being “disinterested” because it was already
serving as one of General Growth’s two financial advisers.  The objection of the U.S. Trustee was resolved in a
chambers conference that was closed to the public. UBS said in
response to the objection of the U.S. Trustee that “no party
with an economic stake in the outcome of these Chapter 11 cases
opposes UBS’s participation as an underwriter.” UBS also said
that its prior “efforts have undeniably contributed to the
Debtor’s success.”  The General Growth subsidiaries owning the properties
already confirmed Chapter 11 plans paying their creditors in
full. Creditors of General Growth’s top-tier companies are to
receive full payment under the parents’ Chapter 11 plan up for
confirmation on Oct. 21. The plan preserves some of the stock
for existing shareholders. The plan is financed in part with an
$8.55 billion debt and equity commitment from a group led by
 Brookfield Asset Management Inc.   General Growth, the second-largest mall owner in the U.S.
with 180 properties in 43 states, began the largest real-estate
reorganization in history by filing under Chapter 11 in April
2009. The books of Chicago-based General Growth had assets of
$29.6 billion and total liabilities of $27.3 billion as of Dec.
31, 2008.  The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Energizer Wins Second Auction for American Safety Razor  The bankruptcy judge authorized  American Safety Razor Co. 
to sell the business for $301 million cash to  Energizer Holdings
Inc. , the maker of Schick shavers.  At the Oct. 8 auction and hearing, Energizer beat out the
original bid from secured lenders who offered to buy the
business in exchange for the $244.4 million they were owed on a
first-lien revolving credit and term loan.  ASR originally turned down the offer from Energizer in
light of concerns that a sale would never close given the
possibility of objection from federal antitrust regulators. At a
hearing on Sept. 30, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Mary F. Walrath 
overruled ASR’s decision and required holding another auction
where Energizer could bid.  Energizer is required to complete the acquisition by Nov.
23. Otherwise, the lenders will take title in exchange for debt.
Second-lien creditors, owed $178.1 million, had urged Walrath to
hold the second auction where Energizer could bid.  For Bloomberg coverage of the Oct. 8 hearing, click here.  ASR filed under Chapter 11 in July, saying at the time that
it would give second-lien creditors an opportunity to arrange a
sale at a price more favorable than swapping the business for
the first-lien debt.  Mezzanine lenders are owed $60 million. The agent for the
first-lien lenders is  UBS AG . ASR had revenue of $330 million in
2009.  Cedar Knolls, New Jersey-based ASR has plants in Virginia
and Tennessee. Affiliates abroad aren’t in bankruptcy.  ASR was acquired for $625 million in July 2006 by London-
based Lion Capital LLP.  ASR has the largest market share for private-label blades,
although only 8 percent when branded goods are included,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The case is In re American Safety Razor Co., 10-12351, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Schutt Sports Wants Riddell Cited for Contempt Over Statements  Schutt Sports Inc., the Illinois football-helmet maker,
accused rival Riddell Inc. of violating a stay order and asked
that it be cited for contempt in a request that raises issues
about free speech in bankruptcy cases.  The new controversy results from a $29 million patent-
infringement judgment won by Riddell. Schutt filed under Chapter
11 on Sept. 6 to halt collection on the judgment.  Schutt alleged in papers filed last week that sales
representatives from Riddell are telling Schutt customers that
the company filed in Chapter 11 and may go out of business.  Schutt contends that the communications violate the so-
called automatic stay in bankruptcy that prohibits attempting to
collect a pre-bankruptcy debt. The stay also prohibits
interference with a bankrupt company’s property.  Riddell should be held in contempt of the automatic stay,
Schutt said in Oct. 6 court papers. The contempt motion is on
the bankruptcy court calendar for Oct. 21. A call to Riddell’s
lawyers from Perkins Coie LLP wasn’t returned.  Trying to drive away a bankrupt’s customers is a violation
of the stay, according to Schutt. Likewise, communications
“designed to erode the value of the debtor’s assets” violates
the stay. Schutt didn’t cite case law saying when the
prohibitions in the automatic stay give way to the right of free
speech under the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.  Schutt said in the Chapter 11 petition that assets and debt
both exceed $50 million.  The case is In re Schutt Sports Inc., 10-12795, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Watch List  American Apparel Names President from Blockbuster  American Apparel Inc. , a Los Angeles-based designer,
manufacturer and apparel retailer, said in a statement that Tom
Casey, the former chief financial officer of  Blockbuster Inc. ,
was appointed as acting president.  Casey will have “primary responsibility for developing the
going forward operating strategy,” according to the statement.  American Apparel had a $42.8 million net loss and a $21.6
million loss from operations in the first quarter. Revenue in
the quarter was $121.8 million. The company is late in filing
financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission
for the second quarter.  The preliminary report for the second quarter said the loss
from operations would range between $5 million and $7 million.
Comparable store sales declined 16 percent in the quarter. The
expected net sales for the quarter are $132 to $134 million,
compared with $136.1 million in the same quarter the year
before.  Casey resigned from Blockbuster in August.  Deloitte & Touche LLP, the auditor for American Apparel in
2009, resigned and said the company “has not maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting.” Deloitte
warned that it needed further information to be sure there
should be no change in the 2009 financials.  Briefly Noted  Boston Generating Allowed to Hold Auction of Plants  Boston Generating LLC was given permission to go ahead with
an auction for the business when the bankruptcy judge read her
ruling into the record at a hearing on Oct. 9. The ruling by
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley C. Chapman came after a four-day
hearing where some creditors were contending that the sale was
taking place too quickly.  Boston Generating is selling its five electric generating
plants in the Boston area. Absent a higher bid at auction,
 Constellation Energy Group Inc.  will buy the facilities for $1.1
billion. For Bloomberg coverage of the Oct. 9 hearing, click
here.  The case is In re Boston Generating LLC, 10-14419, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Philadelphia Newspapers Completes Sale to Lenders  Philadelphia Newspapers LLC  completed the sale of the
Philadelphia Inquirer and Philadelphia Daily News on Oct. 8. For
Bloomberg coverage, click here.  To read about the sale and confirmation of the Chapter 11
plan, click here for the Oct. 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. The
newspapers began court reorganization in February 2009 in their
hometown after defaulting on a term loan and revolving credit
totaling $296.6 million and on $98.5 million in subordinated
notes.  The case in bankruptcy court is In re Philadelphia
Newspapers LLC, 09-11204, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern
District Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Daily Podcast  WaMu, Innkeepers, DBSD, Cramdowns, D&O Insurance: Audio  A settlement with the so-called bank bondholders of
 Washington Mutual Inc. , a decision by a new bankruptcy judge
ruling that examiners aren’t mandatory, an upcoming cramdown
decision from the federal Court of Appeals in New York, a
potential acquisition target in the fast-food supply industry,
and an important decision in favor of directors’ and officers’
insurance providers are covered in the new bankruptcy podcast on
the Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click
here.  Downgrade  Manitowoc Gets Downgrade from S&P on Crane Weakness  Although  Manitowoc Co . is selling $500 million in new
unsecured notes to pay down an existing term loan, the
manufacturer of cranes and food-service equipment nonetheless
received a downgrade from Standard & Poor’s.  S&P lowered the corporate rating by one peg on Oct. 8 to
B+. S&P said the “prolonged difficult crane operating
environment” is being offset by “modest improvements in its
food segment.”  The new rating by S&P is one level higher than the
downgrade issued in May 2009 by Moody’s Investors Service.  The company is located in its namesake Wisconsin town of
Manitowoc. The stock closed on Oct. 8 at $12.42, up 35 cents a
share in New York Stock Exchange trading. The three-year high
was $50.98 on Dec. 24, 2007. The three-year low was $2.42 on
March 6, 2009.  Advance Sheets  Lack of Federal Jurisdiction Requires Remand to State  When a federal court lack jurisdiction, it can only remand
a lawsuit to state court and cannot dismiss the case on the
merits, the Bankruptcy Appellate Panel for the 8th Circuit ruled
on Oct. 8.  The case involved National Benevolent Association, which
confirmed a full-payment Chapter 11 plan in 2005 in bankrupt
court in Texas. After confirmation, the company sued its
bankruptcy lawyer for malpractice allegedly committed before the
Chapter 11 filing.  The bankruptcy court dismissed the malpractice suit, saying
that an order approving a sale and confirming the plan
conclusively decided that the legal advice was proper. Although
the district court in Texas upheld dismissal, the Court of
Appeals in New Orleans ruled there was no federal jurisdiction
because the company lacked standing.  The 5th Circuit in New Orleans said there was no standing
because the plan didn’t unequivocally list the suit as surviving
confirmation of the plan.  The company sued the firm again in Missouri state court.
The firm removed the suit to a federal bankruptcy court in
Missouri where the bankruptcy judge dismissed, saying that the
5th Circuit ruling barred a suit in state or federal court.  The Appellate Panel for the 8th Circuit ruled on Oct. 8
that it was improper to dismiss on the merits. Instead, the case
should have been remanded to state court, where the state court
could decide if dismissal on the merits was proper.  The Appellate Panel based its ruling on Section 1447(c) of
the federal Judiciary Code which says that a case “shall be
remanded” to the state court when the federal court lacks
jurisdiction.  The result may have been different had the bankruptcy case
been pending in any circuit other than the 5th. The Court of
Appeals for the 5th Circuit has a rule not existing in other
circuits which requires that a lawsuit must be listed
specifically if it’s to survive confirmation of a plan.  The case is National Benevolent Association v. Weil Gotshal
& Manges LLP, 09-6084, Bankruptcy Appellate Panel for the 8th
Circuit (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 