-- General Motors' Buick-GMC Considers Loaner Cars to Build Brand Awareness
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-10-11T15:33:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/general-motors-buick-gmc-considers-loaner-cars-to-build-brand-awareness.html
General Motors Co.’s GMC and Buick,
the fastest-growing brand in the U.S. this year, are considering
a courtesy loaner program for customers getting warranty service
on their vehicles to build awareness of the company’s products.  GM, the largest U.S. automaker, may start the service in
the “next couple weeks,”  Brian Sweeney , vice president of
sales for Buick and GMC, said in a telephone interview. The
program would seek to get GMC Acadia owners into a Buick
Enclave, for example, and build recognition of more GM vehicles,
he said.  “We want to expose customers to other Buick and GMC
products,” said Sweeney, who met with about 900 dealers that
sell the two brands last week.  Dealers selling Buick need to change and meet the
expectations customers have when shopping for a premium car,
said Mike Bowsher, co-chairman of the national dealer council
for Buick-GMC and president of Carl Black Automotive Group.  “We can’t sell Buicks like we did Pontiac,” Bowsher, who
runs  dealerships  in Georgia, Tennessee and Florida, said in a
telephone interview. “A lot of us were old Pontiac dealers, and
we now have to learn how to handle the Lexus, Ritz-Carlton,
Cadillac, Mercedes kind of crowd.”  Some Buick-GMC dealers already make loaner vehicles
available to customers, Bowsher said. GM may push dealers to
make the practice standard, he said.  Buick outpaced all other brands with a 58 percent increase
in U.S. sales through September, according to Autodata Corp. GMC
sales rose 31 percent, according to the Woodcliff Lake, New
Jersey-based researcher.  Pared Brands  GM pared its U.S. brands to Chevrolet, Cadillac, Buick and
GMC as part of its bankruptcy last year. Hummer, Saturn and
Pontiac were shuttered and Saab was sold as the company received
$50 billion from the federal government while restructuring.  GM said last week it would add the Verano compact car to
Buick, the brand’s first small car in more than 20 years. The
company hasn’t announced when production of the Verano will
begin at GM’s Orion Assembly in Orion Township, Michigan.  Buick also will add a sport-utility vehicle that will be
smaller than the Enclave, and a higher performance version of
the Regal sedan called the Regal GS, Sweeney said. The Verano
and smaller SUV follow new models including the Regal earlier
this year and the LaCrosse mid-sized sedan last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  