-- Geron Starts First Human Embryonic Stem-Cell Study
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s   a n d   E l l e n   G i b s o n
-- 2010-10-11T20:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/geron-starts-first-human-study-of-embryonic-stem-cell-therapy-in-u-s-.html
Geron Corp.  used a therapy made from
stem cells taken from human embryos to treat a patient paralyzed
by a spinal-cord injury in the first U.S.-authorized test of the
technology.  The patient was treated Oct. 8 at Shepherd Center, a
rehabilitation hospital in Atlanta, the company said today in a
statement. The study is designed to test the safety of Geron’s
therapy in patients with spinal cord injuries. The U.S. Food and
Drug Administration gave permission in July for Geron to start
the study after a halt of almost a year over safety concerns.  Scientists have pursued studies of stem cells for more than
a decade as potential treatments for Parkinson’s disease,
multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injuries and diabetes. Geron is
one of just three U.S. companies working with embryonic cells,
which can grow into any kind of tissue and hold the potential to
repair or regenerate damaged organs.  “We’re all pretty excited that we finally crossed the
great divide and that a patient passed all the inclusion
criteria and consented to have the cells,” said  Thomas Okarma ,
the company’s president and chief executive officer, in a
telephone interview today. “The first one is always the
toughest.”  Geron rose 34 cents, or 6.4 percent, to $5.67 at 4 p.m. in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares have gained
2.2 percent this year.  Restore Sensation  The goal of the treatment is to restore some sensation and
enable patients to participate in physical therapy that could
restore a degree of mobility, Okarma said. With the first
patients, the goal is even more modest -- to be certain the
therapy doesn’t make things worse or cause unwanted side
effects, he said.  The company will be limited to treating one patient a month
until doctors and FDA regulators are convinced the therapy is
doing no harm, Okarma said. After that, doctors will be allowed
to treat patients with greater doses of cells. As many as 10
patients will be treated in the study, he said.  Patients must be treated between seven and 14 days after
their injury, Okarma said. To take part in the trial, they must
have badly damaged, though not severed, their spinal cords in
the region that starts below the neck, the company said.  The patients have to make the decision to take part in the
trial at a time when they are reeling from the effects of a
devastating injury, Okarma said.  “You can’t imagine what they go through to hear that
they’re paralyzed from the waist down,” he said.  Nerve Cells  Geron has developed a process to make embryonic stem cells
into glial cells, a type of nerve cell that helps support the
work of neurons. In spinal-cord injuries, nerve cells can no
longer transmit information down the spine, resulting in
paralysis.  Advanced Cell Technology Inc . of Marlborough,
Massachusetts, is awaiting FDA approval to start a clinical
trial in patients with Stargardt’s macular dystrophy, an eye
disorder that causes severe vision loss.  Viacyte, formerly known as Novocell Inc., a closely held
San Diego company, is working on methods of turning embryonic
stem cells into insulin-secreting cells for the treatment of
diabetes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ellen Gibson  in New York at 
 egibson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net ,  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  