-- GM Defends Volt While Critics Say It's Not a Real Electric Car
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-10-11T20:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/gm-defends-chevrolet-volt-as-critics-say-it-s-not-a-true-electric-vehicle.html
General Motors Co., the largest U.S.
automaker, is disputing accusations that its low-emission
Chevrolet Volt is a hybrid and not a true electric vehicle a
month before the car goes on sale.  Auto critics Edmunds.com, Motor Trend and Popular Mechanics
have said that during heavy acceleration the Volt uses its
gasoline engine to power an electric generator which helps turn
the wheels, similar to how hybrids run. GM said on its website
that the car is an extended-range electric vehicle, not a hybrid
like  Toyota Motor Corp .’s Prius.  The Volt debate illustrates the marketing challenge for
automakers selling new technology in cars that don’t fit
standard classifications and whose performance is difficult to
measure. GM and  Nissan Motor Co.  have both made claims about
their new models’ fuel economy and driving range that not all
consumers may attain because electric performance varies greatly
by driving habits.  "You have a PR problem with any one of these vehicles,"
said  Jim Hall , principal of 2953 Analytics Inc., an auto
consulting firm in Birmingham, Michigan. "GM had this sort of
schizophrenic thing about doing its best to manage perception
and at the same time going off into traditional old-style GM
hype."  GM has promoted the $41,000 Volt as an electric vehicle to
give it an image boost over hybrid-electric cars such as the
Prius. The Detroit-based  automaker  has said for three years that
the Volt would always run on electric power and more recently
said it would average 230 miles per gallon. The U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency hasn’t rated that number, and GM
said many consumers may get lower fuel economy.  ‘GM Lied’  GM said today that the engine does assist in driving the
car through an electric generator.  Critics at Popular Mechanics and Edmunds both wrote than
they consider the Volt a plug-in hybrid and not the electric
vehicle that GM has touted for years. The Edmunds review of the
car had the headline: “GM Lied: Chevy Volt is not a true EV.”  Nick Richards , a GM spokesman, said the Volt always runs on
electricity and has no mechanical link from the gasoline engine
to the wheels.  The car’s four-cylinder gasoline engine powers a secondary
electric motor, which turns the wheels,  Tony Posawatz , the
Volt’s vehicle line director, said in an interview. The car’s
gas engine doesn’t directly power the wheels, he said. GM never
disclosed that fact because the engineers saw it as a benefit
that boosted the car’s fuel economy, he said.  ‘Very Different’  “I keep telling people that this is a smart solution,”
Posawatz said. “It drives very different from a hybrid.”  Hall, of 2953 Analytics, said there are some similarities
between the Volt and the Prius.  “In a Prius, there is no mechanical linkage between the
engine and the wheels -- it goes through a motor,” he said.
“They use the engine to drive a direct-drive generator to drive
the motor. The Volt does the same thing, it’s just that the Volt
can run with electric power without an engine longer than pretty
much any hybrid right now can.”  GM said previously that the Volt would go 40 miles on a
fully charged battery before the gasoline engine starts to
recharge the battery, giving the vehicle a total range of 340
miles. The company said today it will go 25 to 50 miles in
electric drive and 310 miles on one charge and a tank of fuel.  Nissan  and GM both will have marketing challenges when
consumers get lower range or fuel economy, Hall said. With
hybrids and electric cars, they can drive farther in stop-and-go
city driving than on the highway because braking recharges the
battery.  Company Claims  That means many Volt owners won’t get 230 miles per gallon
in the Volt and Leaf drivers won’t get the 100 miles on a single
charge that the companies have claimed, Hall said.  Consumers probably won’t care whether the Volt is a hybrid
or electric car, said  Eric Noble , president of The CarLab, an
auto consulting firm in Orange, California. Potential buyers
will be more concerned with the car’s price, the fuel savings
and how far they can drive before needing to plug in or refuel.  “Consumers don’t care what we call it,” Noble said. “In
our research, most of the questions from consumers are about
battery life and recharging.”  The Volt’s emissions are more important than what people
call it, said  Dan Becker , director of the Safe Climate Campaign,
an environmental lobbying group in Washington.  “I don’t think purity is the issue,” Becker said. “What
comes out of the tailpipe is the issue. If it’s a little, it’s
green. If it’s a lot, it’s not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  