-- GM Gets Ba2 Credit Rating From Moody’s, Same as Ford
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-10-11T19:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/gm-gets-ba2-credit-rating-from-moody-s-same-as-ford-update1-.html
General Motors Co.  was given the
same credit rating by Moody’s Investors Service as  Ford Motor
Co. , citing the largest U.S. automaker’s low costs and position
in the global vehicle market.  GM was rated Ba2, the second level below investment grade,
with a stable outlook, New York-based Moody’s said today in a
statement. The firm rates an anticipated GM secured credit
facility as Baa3, the lowest investment-grade level. GM hasn’t
publicly disclosed the facility’s terms.  “GM has the potential to become a more formidable player
in the global automotive arena,”  J. Bruce Clark , a Moody’s
senior vice president, wrote today in the statement. Clark cited
GM’s position in North America, Asia and Latin America, and said
GM would have “one of the more balanced global footprints in
the industry” if it fixes the unprofitable European business.  Moody’s raised Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s rating by
two levels to Ba2 on Oct. 8, saying the automaker’s operating
performance “significantly exceeded” expectations. The upgrade
to Ford’s corporate family rating was the  fifth  by Moody’s in 13
months.  GM, 61 percent owned by the U.S. Treasury Department, needs
to trim its $26 billion unfunded pension liability to "contend
with the industry’s ongoing cyclicality," Clark wrote today. The
company’s restructuring of its European operations will take
“at least another year,” Moody’s said.  S&P Rating  Standard & Poor’s gave Detroit-based GM a BB- rating on
Oct. 7, one level higher than Ford’s B+, because of its improved
balance sheet and prospects for generating cash from operations
in markets such as China and Brazil.  GM lowered its funded debt to about $8 billion from about
$50 billion as part of its bankruptcy last year, Moody’s said
today. The company is planning an initial public offering to
reduce government stakes.  Fitch Ratings gave GM a BB- rating on Oct. 6, the same as
Ford’s.  GM  and the U.S. Treasury aim to hold an $8 billion to
$10 billion IPO in November, two people familiar with the plans
said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  