-- Goldman Sachs's Mboweni Says Nigeria May Become Africa's New `Gold Rush'
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   G o r d o n   B e l l
-- 2010-10-11T14:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/goldman-sach-s-mboweni-says-nigeria-may-become-africa-s-new-gold-rush-.html
Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil
producer, will be the next “gold rush” on the continent as
investors take advantage of a booming economy, former South
African central bank Governor  Tito Mboweni  said.  Nigeria’s gross domestic product will overtake South
Africa’s in the next three decades, Mboweni, who is now an
adviser for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , said in an interview in
Johannesburg on Oct. 8. Its economy of $169 billion compares
with South Africa’s $286 billion, according to World Bank data.  “Nigeria is going to be Africa’s growth story for the next
15 to 20 years,” Mboweni said after returning from a visit to
Nigeria’s capital, Abuja, and the commercial hub, Lagos, as part
of a delegation from Goldman Sachs.  The West African nation, the continent’s most populous with
140 million people, is targeting economic growth of 10 percent
in the coming years as it boosts spending on power plants and
attracts more investment, Finance Minister  Olusegun Aganga , a
former Goldman Sachs executive, said Sept. 3. The government is
preparing to sell its first Eurobond of $500 million this year.  Goldman Sachs, which doesn’t have an office in Nigeria, is
bidding to advise on the sale of state-owned power-generation
and distribution companies, the Bureau of Public Enterprises
said on Aug. 31. The government hasn’t said who will manage the
Eurobond sale yet.  Mboweni is also chairman of  Nampak Ltd. , Africa’s biggest
packaging maker, which is benefiting from its business in
Nigeria, he said. Nampak manufactures bottles for Guinness beer
and cigarette packages in the country.  Banking Crisis  Nigeria has previously failed to convert its oil wealth
into economic development. In its latest crisis, central bank
Governor  Lamido Sanusi , who took office in June last year, fired
the chief executive officers of eight of the 24 commercial
lenders and pumped 620 billion naira ($4 billion) to bail out 10
of them as the industry risked collapse. Sanusi said on Sept. 21
that the economy will probably expand 7.8 percent this year, up
from 7 percent in 2009.  Nigeria has oil production capacity of more than 3 million
barrels a day, Oil Minister  Diezani Alison-Madueke  said on Sept.
27, making it the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’
sixth-largest supplier. Oil accounts for more than 80 percent of
government revenue, according to the Finance Ministry.  There are a number of good, young technocrats in Nigeria’s
government who will help sort out the “chaos” in the country,
Mboweni said.  ‘Good Job’  A former labor minister in President  Nelson Mandela ’s first
Cabinet in 1994, Mboweni, 51, left the South African Reserve
Bank in November after a decade at its helm, declining President
 Jacob Zuma ’s offer to serve a third term. He was named chairman
of  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. , Africa’s biggest gold producer, on
Feb. 24, three weeks after he was appointed to the same position
at Nampak.  Mboweni, who is a patron of the South African Ballet
Theater, is currently raising $130 million for a planned
specialist children’s hospital in Johannesburg.  The Reserve Bank of South Africa is doing a “good job,”
Mboweni said. Interest rate increases between June 2006 and June
2008 helped to curb price gains, he said.  Inflation  has been inside the central bank’s 3 percent to 6
percent target range since February, easing to an annual 3.5
percent in August.  Union Criticism  Mboweni was criticized by South African labor unions for
not cutting interest rates fast enough in 2009, which they said
prolonged the economy’s first recession in 17 years. He lowered
the  benchmark rate  six times to 7 percent between December 2008
and August 2009. His replacement,  Gill Marcus , has cut the rate
by 1 percentage point since then.  In his new role at Goldman Sachs, Mboweni said he has met
with foreign investors, who raised concerns about calls from the
youth wing of the ruling  African National Congress  to
nationalize the country’s mines. His response to them is that
the “center will hold” in the ANC, he said.  The ANC agreed at its National General Council meeting,
which ended on Sept. 24, to study nationalizing mines and other
key industries over the next two years. The ANC Youth League,
led by  Julius Malema , argued at the meeting that South Africa
didn’t derive enough benefit from mining, which generates 30
percent of export revenue in the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gordon Bell  in Johannesburg at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net ;
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 