-- Greece Leads Drop in Sovereign Debt Risk as IMF May Extend Loan
-- B y   K a t e   H a y w o o d
-- 2010-10-11T11:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/greece-leads-drop-in-sovereign-debt-risk-as-imf-may-extend-loan.html
Credit-default swaps on Greece fell
to the lowest level in four months after the International
Monetary Fund said it may be willing to extend bailout loans.  Contracts on Greek bonds dropped 36 basis points to 695,
according to data provider CMA. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western
Europe Index of credit-default swaps on 15 governments declined
3 basis points to 143, the lowest in six weeks.  IMF managing director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said the $154
billion of aid to Greece could be extended beyond 2013 as long
as European governments that took part in the bailout agree and
the nation sticks to budget deficit cuts. Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s administration opposes any move to grant Greece more
time, the German Finance Ministry said today.  “We are getting all this noise telling us how well Greece
is doing,” said  Bill Blain , a strategist at Matrix Corporate
Capital LLP in London. “But the fact that the IMF is willing to
extend the loans sounds like a restructuring of Greek debt and
politically the German government has to look tough and make
Greece stick to the rules of the bailout.”  Investors demand a yield premium of 729 basis points to
lend to Greece for 10 years rather than Germany, the most of any
country in the euro zone. That’s compared with 754 basis points
on Friday and down from a euro-era record of 973 basis points on
May 7.  Greek Statistics  Credit-default swaps of other so-called peripheral euro-
zone nations also fell. Portugal dropped 9 basis points to 387,
while Spain was 7.5 basis points lower at 209, according to CMA.  Any move to give Greece more time for repayment would be
“premature” given that it needs to show a deficit-reduction
program can be implemented, said  Bertrand Benoit , a spokesman
for Germany’s Finance Ministry. Lenders have to ensure there is
“no doubt” about the quality of Greek statistics, he said.  The cost of insuring against losses on corporate bonds also
fell with the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies with
mostly high-yield credit ratings declining 8 basis points to
459, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London. The Markit
iTraxx Europe index of 125 companies with investment-grade
ratings dropped 3 basis points to 98.75.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  A basis point on a contract protecting 10 million euros
($14 million) of debt for five years is equivalent to 1,000
euros a year. An increase signals deterioration in perceptions
of credit quality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  