-- Greek Borrowing Costs Drop at Sale After IMF Offer: Euro Credit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-12T10:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/greek-borrowing-costs-poised-to-decline-after-imf-loan-offer-euro-credit.html
Greek borrowing  costs  declined in a
sale of bills today after the International Monetary Fund said
it may give the nation more time to repay loans and China
disclosed plans to buy bonds.  Greece issued 1.17 billion euros ($1.62 billion) of six-
month Treasury bills today at a yield of 4.54 percent, compared
with 4.82 percent at a previous sale last month, Greece’s Public
Debt Management Agency said. The amount issued was more than the
900 million euros indicated by the PDMA before the sale.  “Sentiment has improved markedly for Greece after the IMF
suggested it might give the country more breathing space,” said
 Glenn Marci , a fixed-income strategist at DZ Bank AG in
Frankfurt. “This reduces the near-term risk of Greece having to
go for haircuts or defaulting outright. It helps Greek bonds,
and it also benefits bills.”  IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said two days
ago in a Bloomberg HT television interview that Greece is taking
the right steps to reduce spending. The IMF will extend terms of
its loans as long as euro-region nations, which provided the
bulk of the 110 billion-euro Greek rescue package, agree to do
the same, he said. Germany is against changing the repayment
schedule, Finance Ministry spokesman  Bertrand Benoit  said
yesterday, calling any such move “premature.”  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in an Oct. 2 interview on
state-run ET-1 television after a meeting with Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  that China is committed “ very positively”
to adding to its holdings of Greek bonds. During the first visit
to Greece in 24 years by a Chinese premier, Wen said he wants to
signal a vote of confidence in Greece.  Top Performers  Greek bonds were Europe’s best performers in the third
quarter, rising 4.8 percent and gaining for the first time since
last year when the sovereign debt crisis began, indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies show. Even with the rally, the yield premium for 10-
year Greek bonds was 701 basis points more than Germany, the
most of any euro nation. The gap narrowed yesterday to the
lowest level since June 22.  Lower borrowing costs make it cheaper for Greece to fund
its budget deficit, the euro-region’s second largest, and brings
the country closer to fulfilling its stated aim of returning to
the bond market next year.  The yield on Greek  two-year notes  has dropped 181 basis
points to 7.81 percent since last month’s sale, according to
generic prices.  “Keeping the bills market open means they don’t risk
losing investors and also provides them with cheaper funding
than they get from the aid package,”  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-
income strategist at Credit Agricole SA in London, said before
the sale.  Moody’s ‘Impressed’  Greece sold 480 million euros of 13-week bills on Sept. 21
and Sept. 22 at 3.98 percent, about a week after issuing 1.44
billion euros of 26-week bills. It has borrowed 29 billion euros
from the European Union and IMF at a floating rate that is
currently at about 5 percent and hasn’t sold fixed-income
securities with a longer maturity than 26 weeks since April.  Moody’s Investors Service, which downgraded Greece’s credit
rating to non-investment grade in June, said on Oct. 5 that it’s
“impressed” with the country’s overhaul of its public
finances. The risk to the country’s sovereign rating forecast
“is to the upside,” assuming reforms continue, Moody’s said.  Yields on  10-year  Greek bonds remain the highest in the
euro region, at 9.38 percent. That compares with 6.56 percent
for Ireland, 6.26 percent for Portugal, 3.98 percent for Spain
and 3.71 percent for Italy.  Tax Revenue  Greek markets have declined since the end of last year when
the newly-elected Pasok government said the budget deficit was
twice as big as the previous administration indicated. The
budget deficit shrank 31 percent in the first nine months of
2010, the Athens-based Ministry of Finance reported yesterday.
The reduction occurred as the government cut expenses such as
wages and pensions to counter tax evasion, an inefficient tax
collection process and a shrinking economy.  “We are doing the best we can and hopefully the market
will reward us,” said  Petros Christodoulou , the head of the
nation’s debt management office, in an Oct. 8 e-mailed response
to questions.  Revenue from Greek taxes ranked among the lowest in the EU
at 32.6 percent of GDP, compared with an average 39.3 percent in
the EU-27, according to a 2009 report from Eurostat.  “From a trading perspective, I see value in Greek bonds,”
said  Christoph Kind , head of asset allocation at Frankfurt
Trust, which oversees about $20 billion. “That’s not to say all
problems in Greece are resolved and it’s going to get better
from here. It’s still a long and winding road ahead of them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  