-- Gymboree to Be Bought by Bain Capital for About $1.8 Billion
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2010-10-11T20:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/gymboree-to-be-bought-by-bain-capital-for-about-1-8-billion.html
Gymboree Corp. , the San Francisco-
based children’s clothing retailer, agreed to be bought by Bain
Capital LLC for about $1.8 billion, giving the buyout firm a
business whose  free cash flow  has tripled since 2008.  The acquisition price is $65.40 a share, the companies said
today in a statement. That’s 57 percent more than Gymboree’s
closing price on Sept. 30, when reports of a takeover surfaced.
Gymboree may seek acquisition proposals from third parties
through Nov. 20, according to the statement.  The purchase is the largest leveraged buyout in the retail-
apparel sector worldwide over the past three years by more than
$1 billion. It gives Boston-based Bain more than 1,000 stores in
countries including Canada and Australia. Gymboree, whose sales
growth has slowed for three straight years, also operates Janie
and Jack shops and Crazy 8 stores in the U.S.  “It’s an excellent deal for Gymboree shareholders with a
valuation well above what many were expecting,” said  Lee Giordano , an analyst at Imperial Capital LLC in New York who
rates the shares “outperform.”.  Gymboree  rose $11.88, or 22 percent, to $64.83 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the biggest one-
day gain since April 2009. The shares have climbed 49 percent
this year.  Private-equity firms bought 43 retail-apparel companies
over the past three years. The average deal size was $175
million with an average premium of 15.7 percent, based on the
average closing price of the target for 20 days prior to the
deal announcement, according to Bloomberg data. Bain is paying a
premium of 45.9 percent on that basis.  Buyout firms pool money from investors to take over
companies, financing the purchases mostly with debt, with the
intention of selling them later for a profit.  Bain’s Multiple  Bain is paying 7.7 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, over 12 months
including net debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That compares with a median multiple of 7.4 for private-equity
acquisitions in the industry over the past three years.  Children’s Place Retail Stores Inc. , based in Secaucus, New
Jersey, rose $1.28, or 2.5 percent, to $53.45 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading, and Atlanta-based  Carter’s Inc . gained 97 cents,
or 3.6 percent, to $27.63 in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading after the announcement of Gymboree’s sale. The
companies, whose market values are similar to Gymboree’s, also
generate most of their revenue from children’s clothing.  Free Cash Flow  Gymboree’s annual net income rose to $101.9 million in the
year ended Jan. 30, more than triple its profit from 2006.
Earnings have grown for five consecutive years. The company has
no interest-bearing  debt  and its free cash flow has more than
tripled to $137 million since 2008, making it very appealing to
private-equity firms, Giordano said. Free cash flow is defined
as cash receipts from operating activities minus total capital
expenditures.  The deal is Bain’s second largest this year and its 13th
acquisition overall, according to Bloomberg data. Since 2006,
Bain has made three other acquisitions of retail or apparel
companies, buying Edgars Consolidated Stores Ltd. for $3.67
billion in 2007, Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse Corp. for
$1.87 billion in 2006 and Lilliput Kidswear for $66 million this
year. Spokesmen for Bain and Gymboree declined to comment.  “Children’s apparel is more predictable than teen apparel
because it’s less influenced by fashion, and in recessionary
times, parents tend to spend more on their kids than they do on
themselves, so it’s resilient,” Giordano said.  New Bid?  Bain Capital Managing Director Jordan Hitch said in the
statement that he looked forward to working with Gymboree
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Matthew McCauley , a sign
that Gymboree’s executive team will likely stay on to run the
company, said  Betty Chen , an analyst at Wedbush Securities in
San Francisco.  “It’s always possible that someone else will bid, but I
think for someone else to come in, they’ll need to pay $70 or
above,” said Chen, who changed her rating on the stock to
“neutral” from “outperform” today.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Morgan Stanley agreed to provide
debt financing to Bain for the acquisition. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. acted as adviser to Gymboree’s special committee of the
board, while Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP and Wilson
Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati provided legal advice. Goldman and
Peter J. Solomon Co. also provided fairness opinions to the
special committee. Ropes & Gray LLP was Bain’s legal advisor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Sherman  in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  