-- ICAP's Asia Heads Created `Unbearable' Culture, Brokers Claim
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-10-11T05:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/icap-asia-heads-created-unbearable-work-culture-singapore-brokers-claim.html
ICAP Plc ’s former Asia head  Kim Rosenkilde  and his deputy  Don McClumpha  created an
“unbearable” work culture, brokers who were sued by the
company to stop them from quitting said in court papers.  The two executives favored Caucasians over Asians, the 10
brokers said in Oct. 8 filings to the Singapore High Court.
The court last month ordered Lausanne, Switzerland-based
 Compagnie Financiere Tradition SA  to stop recruiting ICAP
brokers until the dispute is resolved.  While local brokers took a voluntary pay cut of as much as
20 percent in late 2008 on the basis there would be no firings,
the senior ranks were being staffed with “high-cost friends and
previous colleagues from overseas,” said Steven Ng, a deputy
manager, and Gary Sim, a vice president.  London-based ICAP, the world’s largest broker of trades
between banks, has almost 5,000 employees in 32 countries and
values and respects “everyone who contributes to our
business,”  Mike Sheard , a company spokesman, said in an e-mail
today.  Rosenkilde is needed in a  new role  reporting to Chief
Executive Officer  Michael Spencer  and was succeeded by Sydney-
based  Hugh Gallagher  as head of ICAP’s Asia operations at the
end of September, Sheard said.  McClumpha will return to London in a few months to work on
ICAP’s e-swaps platform, Sheard said, adding that the changes
aren’t related to the lawsuit.  ‘Asian Culture’  Rosenkilde and McClumpha changed the Singapore office’s
“Asian culture” of consultation, the brokers claimed.  ICAP, which has about 300 employees in Singapore, sued 38
brokers in a bid to stop them from defecting and Tradition for
recruiting them. The London-based company said the employees had
access to confidential data including client lists, trading
strategies and brokers’ pay.  The 10 men said in their filings that they didn’t have
access to such confidential data.  Christopher Daniel  from Advocatus Law LLP and  Suresh Nair 
from Straits Law Practice LLC are representing the brokers. Andy
Leck from Baker & McKenzie.Wong & Leow is acting for ICAP.  The case is ICAP AP (Singapore) Pte. vs M. Divakaran & Ors
S703/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  