-- Microsoft Unveils Phones in Bid to End Share Losses
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-10-11T13:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/microsoft-unveils-windows-phones-in-bid-to-regain-ground-on-apple-google.html
Microsoft Corp.  unveiled nine new
phones with its Windows operating system after an overhaul aimed
at reversing share losses to  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and  Google
Inc. ’s Android software.  The Windows phones will be sold in the U.S. by  AT&T Inc. ,
the country’s largest phone company, and  Deutsche Telekom AG ’s
T-Mobile USA unit, the companies said at an event in New York to
show the handsets.  The Windows Phone software features a new design, the
ability to take and post photos faster and connections to
Facebook and Microsoft’s Xbox Live game service. With market
research firm  Gartner Inc.  predicting smartphone sales will
eclipse those of personal computers in the next two years,
Microsoft’s mobile business is in need of a quick turnaround.  “Handsets are a critical market if Microsoft is going to
expand their business beyond PCs,”  Ross Rubin , an NPD Group
Inc. analyst, said in an interview. “Windows Phone 7 will offer
an interface that will be familiar to some and offer a new
experience to others; it is a matter of taste.”  The phones are being made by  HTC Corp. , Dell Inc.,  Samsung
Electronics Co.  and LG Electronics Inc.  The phone software organizes activities into tiles that
update with new information. Users can scroll down and side to
side to navigate. The software also includes Microsoft’s Zune
music subscription service and mobile versions of the Office
applications.  Complete Overhaul  The product is the result of an overhaul of the company’s
mobile-phone software.  Andy Lees , named president of the mobile
business two weeks ago, joined the group in 2008 and opted to
scrap work on a planned release and start from scratch.  To gain share, Microsoft must win over more than just
customers. The company must also persuade carriers and handset
makers to devote significant resources and marketing muscle to
Windows in order for the new devices to succeed, said  Kevin Burden , an analyst at ABI Research.  It’s a harder task given the popularity of Android, which
has become the top selling smartphone operating system in the
U.S, according to Gartner. When HTC made the first ever phone
with Windows software in 2002, the company was almost unknown in
the handset space. Now it’s the maker of some of the most
popular Android phones.  “The mobile space is really important and Microsoft
certainly needs a good play there,” said Burden, who is based
in Hopkinton, Massachusetts. “It’s a huge problem if this
doesn’t help them take share.”  Sliding Share  Microsoft’s share in the global smartphone market fell to 5
percent in the second quarter, from 9.3 percent a year earlier,
according to Gartner. Android climbed to 17 percent from 1.8
percent, while the iPhone rose to 14 percent from 13 percent.
 Nokia Oyj ’s Symbian software held 41 percent of the global
smartphone market in the second quarter, down from 51 percent a
year earlier, and BlackBerry-maker  Research In Motion Ltd.  had
18 percent, down from 19 percent.  Microsoft said it opted not to do a CDMA version of the
program until next year, meaning Verizon Wireless and  Sprint
Nextel Corp. , which use that technology, will not be offering
phones with the operating system for sale initially.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  