-- Tiger Woods to Lose Golf's No. 1 Ranking to Lee Westwood on Oct. 31
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-11T03:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/tiger-woods-to-lose-golf-s-no-1-ranking-to-lee-westwood-on-oct-31.html
Tiger Woods ’s reign as the No.
1 golfer in the world is set to come to an end.  England’s  Lee Westwood  will supplant Woods on Oct. 31
provided neither plays in a tournament before the end of
the month, according to the  Official World Golf Ranking ’s
website.  Woods’s next tournament is the World Golf
Championships event in China on Nov. 4-7, according to the
playing schedule on his  website . Westwood, 37, is taking
time off to recover from a calf injury and said yesterday
he won’t return before next month’s WGC event in Shanghai
at the earliest.  “It’s something I’ve always dreamed of and it would
be great if it happened,” Westwood said of the No. 1
ranking after he tied for 11th place yesterday at the
European Tour’s Alfred Dunhill Links Championship in
Scotland.  Woods, 34, is entering his 279th straight week as the
No. 1 golfer in the world rankings. He’s spent a total of
620 weeks atop the list during his career.  According to the Official World Golf Ranking website,
Westwood needed to accumulate 6.2 points from the Dunhill
tournament and the Portugal Masters to ascend to No. 1 by
Oct. 31. He got 6.24 points for his 11th-place finish and
said his calf problem will prevent him from defending his
Portugal Masters title this week.  Westwood, who could have taken the top ranking with a
win or second-place finish in Scotland, said he isn’t
bothered by the prospect of becoming No. 1 during a week he
isn’t playing.  ‘Great Year’  “I’ll take it anyway,” said Westwood, who had
runner-up finishes at the Masters and British Open this
year. “I’ve had a great year up until getting injured.
Look at all of the world ranking points I’ve won; I was
leading the world ranking points for this year by a mile
before I got my injury.”  The only player in the top five of the world rankings
who plans to play before the $7 million HSBC Champions
event in Shanghai is Germany’s  Martin Kaymer , who moved up
to fourth with his victory yesterday at the Dunhill Links
Championship. It was the third title in as many starts for
Kaymer, who won the PGA Championship in August. Kaymer will
next play in the Andalucia Valderrama Masters in Spain on
Oct. 28-31.  “That’s one of my goals,” Kaymer said yesterday
about the No. 1 ranking. “But at the moment for me, Lee
Westwood is the best player in the world.”  Westwood would join  Vijay Singh  and  David Duval  as the
only players to unseat Woods since he first earned golf’s
top ranking in 1998.  Nick Faldo  is the only Englishman
previously to be No. 1 in the 24-year history of the
rankings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  