-- IMF Team Received Threats During Latvian Mission at End-2008, LTV Reports
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2010-10-11T17:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/imf-team-received-threats-during-latvian-mission-at-end-2008-ltv-reports.html
An  International Monetary Fund  team
received threats in November 2008 while in Latvia negotiating
the terms of the country’s international loan, Latvian
Television reported, citing government officials.  “I did not see it myself, it was a text message that one
of the members of the IMF’s group received,” said former
Premier  Ivars Godmanis  on the TV  program  De Facto, broadcast
last night. Godmanis said the person who received the threat was
advising on Latvia’s banking industry. “That was a serious
shock for me,” he said.  The threat may have been connected with the takeover of
Parex Banka AS, the country’s second-biggest lender, whose
rescue forced Latvia to turn to a group led by the IMF and the
European Commission for a 7.5 billion euro ($10.5 billion) loan,
LTV reported, without saying where it got the information.
Latvia, which took over 51 percent of Parex on Nov. 8, 2008, was
advised by the IMF in a letter at the end of November to take
100 percent control, LTV reported.  Godmanis said the IMF team left the country and continued
to work from Warsaw, even after he offered to bring in Latvia’s
security services to identify the threat, LTV reported.  The Latvian National Security Council also had reports
about possible threats to members of the country’s banking
regulator, LTV said.  Irena Krumane , the regulator’s director,
was given a bodyguard for a short period, the television program
reported, without saying where it got the information.  The security police who investigated the incident weren’t
able to confirm that a member of the IMF team was under threat,
said police spokeswoman Kristine Apse Krumina on the TV program.
Godmanis told the program that it wasn’t possible to identify
the sender of the text message.  The IMF returned to Latvia after speaking with a number of
foreign embassies in Latvia, the program reported. The IMF and
the EU led a group that agreed to an international loan for
Latvia on Dec. 19, 2008.  IMF spokeswoman Simonetta Nardin declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  