-- Impala Platinum Pares Gains After Saying Talks Over Transaction Terminated
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-10-11T16:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/impala-platinum-says-it-has-terminated-talks-that-could-affect-its-shares.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. , the
world’s second-largest producer of the metal, pared gains in
Johannesburg trading after saying talks over a potential
transaction ended.  The company, in a statement today, didn’t identify the
other groups involved. Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd. and part-
owner Anglo Platinum Ltd. said in separate statements released
less than an hour later they had ended talks with an unnamed
party that had offered to buy the Rasimone mine in South Africa.  Impala spokesman  Bob Gilmour  wasn’t immediately available
for comment, while RBP spokeswoman  Lindiwe Montshiwagae  couldn’t
immediately comment when Bloomberg reached her by phone.  “There could have been synergies for Impala,”  Andries Theron , a portfolio manager at Standard Private Bank Equity
Advisory Services, said by phone from Johannesburg today. It
“looked like” Impala made an offer, given the statements.  Impala , based in Johannesburg, pared a 1.8 percent gain to
close 0.2 percent higher at 193.90 rand at 5 p.m. local time.
Anglo Platinum advanced 2 percent.  Royal Bafokeng, South Africa’s largest black-owned platinum
miner, will proceed with a previous plan to list shares on the
Johannesburg stock exchange in the final quarter of this year
after shareholders decided against the offer, it said.  Rasimone, owned a third by Anglo Platinum, is located next
to Impala’s Rustenburg operations. The underground mine is RBP’s
main asset and yields about an annual 180,000 platinum ounces in
concentrate, the company said Sept. 20. RBP is developing a 12
billion rand ($1.8 billion) project on the neighboring Styldrift
farm that may raise the company’s production to 420,000 platinum
ounces in concentrate a year by 2017.  Royal Bafokeng is the platinum business unit of the
Bafokeng community of about 300,000 people in South Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 