-- India Suspends Cotton Export Registrations After Filling Government Quota
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-10-11T07:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/india-suspends-cotton-export-registrations-after-filling-government-quota.html
India, the second-biggest grower of
cotton, stopped registering export contracts after Cargill Inc.,
Louis Dreyfus Commodities and rivals filled the quota within 10
days after bookings opened amid a global shortage.  Traders applied for permits to ship 5.5 million bales, the
limit set by the government, and were issued licenses for 1.22
million bales at 12:28 p.m. Mumbai time, the textiles ministry
said today. Fresh applications will be accepted if more cotton
becomes available, the ministry said.  Futures in New York jumped to a 15-year high after the U.S.
Department of Agriculture raised a forecast for demand. Global
usage will reach 120.8 million bales in the year started Aug. 1,
up 0.2 percent from last month’s estimate, and production will
be 116.7 million bales, down from the September forecast of 117
million, the USDA said Oct. 8.  “There’s a shortage the world over and Indian exporters
are trying to export more and more,”  Shishir Jaipuria , managing
director of Ginni Filaments Yarn, said from New Delhi.  Futures for December delivery gained as much as 2.3 percent
to $1.0964 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. Prices in India reached a
record last week after an extended monsoon delayed harvesting.  Higher raw-material costs have prompted textile retailers
including  Arvind Ltd. ,  Aarvee Denims & Exports Ltd. ,  Reliance
Industries Ltd.  and  Gokaldas Exports Ltd.  to raise prices by as
much as 15 percent, Citigroup Inc. economists  Rohini Malkani  and
 Anushka Shah  wrote in a note today. Prices may advance further
during the festive season, it said.  ‘Export Obligation’  “Unbridled exports will deprive mills of raw materials
when prices are shooting up,” said Jaipuria, who is also the
chairman of the  Confederation of Indian Textile Industry .
“Mills and yarn producers may find it difficult to meet export
obligations. The entire value chain will be affected.”  Arvind is the world’s largest denim maker and a supplier to
 Levi Strauss & Co . and Gap Inc.  India halted exports in April to augment supplies, and then
introduced a licensing system for overseas sales a month later.
Actual shipments can begin from Nov. 1 after permits are issued,
the ministry said last month. Exports registration began Oct. 1.  Traders must complete shipments within 45 days of receiving
permits, or latest by Dec. 15, Textiles Commissioner A.B. Joshi
said by phone from Mumbai today.  Mills last month demanded a halt in exports in the October-
to-December period, and sought a duty of 10,000 rupees ($223) a
ton to deter shippers.  India’s production may be 32.55 million bales in the year
started Oct. 1, from 29.5 million bales a year ago, according to
the state Cotton Advisory Board. Exports were 8.3 million bales
last year, with more than half going to China, the biggest user.  A bale weighs 170 kilograms in India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 