-- Hines Group Wins California State Office Properties With $2.33 Billion Bid
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2010-10-11T22:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/hines-group-wins-11-california-office-properties-with-2-33-billion-offer.html
A partnership led by Hines and
Antarctica Capital Real Estate LLC was selected as the buyer of
11  office properties  owned by the state of California after
making a $2.33 billion offer.  Proceeds from the sale will be used to pay $1.09 billion of
bond debt on the buildings and add $1.2 billion to the state’s
general fund, the  Department of General Services  said in a
statement today. California will lease back the offices over 20
years, and will no longer be responsible for maintaining,
operating or repairing the buildings.  “This sale will allow us to bring in desperately needed
revenues and free the state from the ongoing costs and risks of
owning real estate,” Ron Diedrich, acting director of the
department, said in the statement.  California went a record 100 days without a budget until
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  signed an $87 billion spending
plan Oct. 8, sparing the world’s eighth-largest economy from
having to issue IOUs for the second year in a row. The most
populous U.S. state was the last to enact a budget for this
fiscal year.  More than 300 bids were received for the buildings, which
together comprise almost 7.3 million square feet (678,000 square
meters), according to the department. The properties include the
San Francisco Civic Center, Ronald Reagan State Building in Los
Angeles, Capitol Area East End Complex in Sacramento, Elihu M.
Harris Building in Oakland and Judge Joseph A. Rattigan Building
in Santa Rosa.  Completion This Year  Diedrich today notified the state Legislature of the
agency’s intent to sell the properties. The transaction is
scheduled for completion by the end of this year, according to
today’s statement.  The acquiring partnership, known as California First LLC,
will provide 40 percent of the purchase price and finance the
balance with a loan from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , according to the
department’s  executive summary  of the deal.  The group includes Hines, a Houston-based real estate
investor and developer; Antarctica Capital Real Estate LLC, led
by Rich Mayo of Spyglass Realty Partners and Chandra Patel of
Irvine, California-based Antarctica Capital; and other equity
investors, the department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Levy  in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  