-- Ireland Can Cut Deficit, Avoid Bailout, Lenihan Says
-- B y   L o u i s a   F a h y   a n d   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2010-10-11T15:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/ireland-can-absolutely-avoid-an-eu-bailout-as-cuts-weighed-lenihan-says.html
Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
said he’s “absolutely” sure the country will avoid a bailout
as he weighs cutting welfare payments and pensions to narrow the
euro region’s biggest budget deficit.  Lenihan will next month lay out his plan to narrow the
deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product by the end of
2014. The shortfall will be around 32 percent of GDP in 2010,
due to a one-time “spike” from bank bailout costs, the
government has said.  “We’ve looked at our welfare bill, our pension bill,”
Lenihan said in an interview in New York on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness” with Margaret Brennan today. “All
these areas have to be looked at.”  Ireland may need to pay 50 billion euros ($69.5 billion) to
rescue lenders including  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. , stoking
concerns that it may need to tap the 750 billion-euro rescue
fund set up in May by the European Union and the International
Monetary Fund. The economy will probably fail to grow this year
after shrinking about 10 percent in 2009, Lenihan said.  “We had a big property bubble and that had a big impact on
the economy,” Lenihan said.  ‘Fully Funded’  Ireland has pumped 22.9 billion euros into Dublin-based
Anglo Irish since the property market crashed. The lender may
need an extra 6.4 billion euros of capital, plus another 5
billion euros in a “stress case” scenario, the finance
ministry has forecast.  The government canceled a debt auction scheduled for next
week and another in November after the yield on 10-year Irish
bonds rose to a record 454 basis points above benchmark German
bunds. Lenihan has said the country is “fully funded” through
the middle of 2011.  The  yield premium  on Ireland’s 10-year debt rather than
German bunds fell to 417 basis points today from 422 basis
points on Oct. 8.  The finance minister also said that tax “will have to play
some part” in narrowing the deficit. Nevertheless, the
government won’t raise corporation tax from its current level of
12.5 percent, a rate that has helped lure foreign companies from
 Intel Corp.  to Google Inc.  “We want to encourage investment not discourage it,”
Lenihan said. “Exports have retained a lot of their strength.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net ;
 Colm Heatley  in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  