-- Irish Swap Finance for Food as Economy Returns to Rural Roots
-- B y   L o u i s a   F a h y   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-10-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/irish-swap-finance-for-food-as-economy-returns-to-rustic-roots-with-crops.html
At Bank of America Corp., David
Farrell spent his day taking calls from credit-card customers in
Ireland. Now, he’s learning to sow seeds to escape the worst
recession in the country’s modern history.  The 40-year-old is among a growing number of Irish workers
returning to rural pursuits after the end of an economic boom
that turned farmers into property developers. The group that
runs Farrell’s college program in Dublin’s Botanic Gardens
turned away 250 students seeking places in its agriculture-
related courses last month because they were full.  “I always felt the economy was going to turn,” Farrell
said on his way into college. “Everything was so inflated at
that stage, it just couldn’t possibly last.”  Ireland’s gross domestic product doubled in size in the
decade through 2007 and has since shrunk by about 15 percent as
a real-estate bubble burst. The government, faced with bailing
out banks and slashing public spending, is counting on food
exporters, including  Kerry Group Plc  and  Glanbia Plc , to help
revive the euro region’s most ailing economy.  “Farming and agrifood were totally lost during the boom,
it just wasn’t seen as sexy compared with property and financial
services,” said  Jim Power , chief economist at Friends First in
Dublin. “That’s changing. High-value export industries like
food are the future for us now.”  Rural ‘Lifeblood’  About 150,000 people work in farming, still the country’s
biggest indigenous industry after 20 years of decline.
Agriculture now accounts for about 2 percent of the Irish
economy compared with about 16 percent in the late 1970s.  Irish cereal prices hit a more than 20-year low as
commodities sank worldwide, according to a  July report  from
Ireland’s Agriculture and Food Development Authority.  The value of food exporters, though, has increased. Shares
of Kerry Group, Ireland’s largest food company, have  risen  47
percent in the last two years. Glanbia has risen 13 percent.
 Bank of Ireland Plc  and  Allied Irish Banks Plc , the two biggest
banks, have plunged 60 percent and 90 percent as bad debts
surged while property prices halved.  “Agriculture is the lifeblood of the rural economy,” said
Tom O’Mahony, chief executive officer of Dublin-based  Origin
Enterprises Plc , which supplies farms. “The focus went off
agriculture during the boom, but it’s going to be the bedrock of
the economy and it’s where we are going to create jobs.”  Avoiding Cuts  Farrell started studying horticulture in Dublin’s 19th
century  Botanic Gardens  two years ago. The father of five worked
for Bank of America’s MBNA in Leitrim, in central Ireland, for
five years before quitting for his studies. MBNA in August
announced 66 job cuts at the site.  Unemployment has more than doubled to 13.8 percent since
the peak of the Celtic tiger economy in 2007. The highest rate
is in the rural southeast region, where it runs at  18 percent .  “This year is the first I’d say in about 14 or 15 years
that you’d have people calling to the farm to see if there is
any seasonal work going,” said Paul Kehoe, 34, who farms about
380 acres in Country Wexford with about 120 cows and 200 sheep.
“They’d be out with their own tractor or dump trailer working
on a site instead of doing farm work, now those guys are going
to scale up their farming because the building job is gone.”  The surge in construction, which accounted for about a
quarter of the economy in 2006, drew agricultural workers off
the land, said John Bryan, president of the  Irish Farmers’
Association , Ireland’s largest farmers lobby. Bryan is a beef
farmer who oversees 230 acres in Kilkenny in southeast Ireland.  Return to Roots  “Farmers have become a respected profession again,” said
Power, the economist. He comes from a farm in Waterford in
southeast Ireland and chairs  Love Irish Food , a group promoting
local produce. “And there’s nothing else out there.”  That return to roots is being smoothed by a decline in the
price of land. Developers pushed up prices to more than 58,400
euros ($81,140) a hectare in 2006, the highest in Europe,
according to the National Institute for Regional and Spatial
Analysis, citing data from property agents  Savills Plc .  Last year, land prices around Dublin declined by 57
percent. The government said last month the cost of bailing out
the banks may rise to as much as 50 billion euros, the
equivalent to a third of gross domestic product.  “Builders, developers, architects, solicitors, they all
wanted the 30 acres with a pony,” according to Bryan. “That
totally inflated the price of agricultural land.”  At the Botanic Gardens, Farrell said he made the right
choice swapping finance for food.  Enrolment for courses at  Teagasc , the Irish agriculture and
food development authority, climbed 45 percent to 1,128 this
year compared with 2007. The agency teaches students skills such
as growing organic food at sites across Ireland.  “It’s a bubble that has burst but I think it will
deteriorate more over time,” said Farrell, speaking in front of
the Garden’s vast, curvilinear glasshouses. “There’s a
resurgence in producing foods. It will become something people
not only want to do, but may have to do.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Louisa Fahy  at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net 
 Finbarr Flynn  at 
 finbarrff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  