-- Title Insurers in Talks With Lenders on Warranties
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-10-11T20:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/title-insurers-are-in-talks-on-creating-foreclosure-warranties-group-says.html
Title insurers are in talks with
banks and regulators to obtain warranties from lenders assuring
they followed proper procedures before selling foreclosed homes,
said  Kurt Pfotenhauer , head of the insurers’ trade group.  “Everyone sort of sees the same risks, and that’s the good
part,” Pfotenhauer, chief executive officer of the American
Land Title Association, said today in a telephone interview.
“You just have to craft a solution that’s acceptable to all the
parties, and we’re making progress.”    Bank of America Corp ., the biggest U.S. lender, on Oct. 8
extended a freeze on foreclosures to all 50 states amid concern
by federal and state officials that homes are being seized based
on faulty information. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank
agreed that day to issue warranties for  Fidelity National
Financial Inc ., the largest title insurer, said Peter Sadowski,
executive vice president and chief legal officer for Fidelity.  “It’s a representation that there are no issues going
forward and an indemnity if someone makes a mistake,” he said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC
Mortgage unit have also stopped repossession cases in 23 states
where courts supervise home seizures, amid allegations that
employees submitted documents with unverified or false data to
speed the process.  End of Week  A decision on the warranties may be reached by the end of
the week, Pfotenhauer said. The assurances would help lenders
resume foreclosures of homes with mortgage defaults and continue
selling off their backlog of repossessed properties, he said.
Pfotenhauer wouldn’t name the companies or regulators involved
in the talks.  Fidelity National shares have dropped 10 percent this
month. The company had about 38 percent of the market in the
second quarter, according to the title insurance association.
Shares of  Santa Ana , California-based First American Financial
Co., the No. 2 insurer, have fallen 5 percent.  Costs for title insurers to defend customers and reimburse
for lost properties rose to $480.5 million in the first half of
2010, an increase of 14 percent from a year earlier, according
to the  American Land Title Association .  Among the tasks performed by title insurers is reviewing
the public record for a court order that confirms a bank owns a
particular property before it’s foreclosed on, Pfotenhauer said.  “Court rulings on valid foreclosures are going to be
challenged,” he said. “That means we may get pulled into
litigation.”  Preventing Risks  The warranties in the works are intended to protect title
insurers from similar risks in the future, Pfotenhauer said.  Bank of America’s agreement with Jacksonville, Florida-
based Fidelity National calls for the lender to cover the title
insurer’s costs in the event of an error in the company’s
processing of foreclosure documents, Sadowski said. The bank
will notify the insurer in each case that the foreclosure
complies with state laws and regulations.  Bank of America is in talks with other title insurers for
similar agreements, said Richard Bramhall, the bank’s chief
title officer. He declined to name the other companies.  “Our goal is to restore order to the chaos,” he said.
“We’re optimistic that this will help calm the waters in regard
to all the anxiety you see all over the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  