-- J&J Drug for Prostate Cancer Extends Lives in Study
-- B y   E l l e n   G i b s o n
-- 2010-10-11T20:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/j-j-drug-for-prostate-cancer-extends-life-in-study-update1-.html
Johnson & Johnson ’s experimental
prostate-cancer drug, abiraterone, slowed the disease and
extended lives, according to a company-sponsored study.  The trial involved 1,195 patients with advanced prostate
cancer that was spreading after treatment with one or two
chemotherapy regimens. Patients who received abiraterone, with
the steroid prednisone, lived a median of 3.9 months longer than
those treated with prednisone alone, the researchers found. The
results were presented today at the  European Society for Medical
Oncology  meeting in Milan.  The research is part of the last of the three stages of
testing usually needed for regulatory approval. J&J, based in
New Brunswick, New Jersey, may file new-drug applications in the
U.S. and Europe by the end of the year on the basis of the study
results, the company said in a statement today.  “The drug could become a nearly billion dollar
opportunity,”  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst at Wells Fargo
Securities in New York, said in a note to clients on Oct. 7.  Abiraterone, which J&J acquired in its $878 million
purchase of Cougar Biotechnology in July 2009, stops tumor cells
from making a hormone they need to survive and reproduce.  The  National Cancer Institute  estimates that 217,730 men in
the U.S. will be diagnosed with prostate cancer this year and
about 32,000 will die of it. The disease is the second-leading
cause of cancer death in American men, after lung cancer,
according to the  American Cancer Society , based in Atlanta.  J&J decided to reveal which patients in the study were
getting abiraterone in August after an interim analysis showed
the medicine prolonged survival and had an acceptable safety
profile.  Two Months Extra  Tumor progression, as measured by CT and bone scans, was
delayed two months longer in those receiving abiraterone, the
data showed. Their median survival was 14.8 months, compared
with 10.9 months for placebo. Fluid retention,  low blood-
potassium  levels and heart disorders were more common among
those taking abiraterone.  Patients in the trial who were assigned to get a sugar pill
were offered the J&J treatment. A program to provide early
access to other people who meet certain criteria also is
expected to begin in the U.S. this month, Ortho Biotech Oncology
Research & Development, a division of J&J, said in a statement
on Sept. 9.  “The treatment works really well -- it’s exciting,” said
 Howard Scher , chief of genitourinary oncology at Memorial Sloan-
Kettering Cancer Center in New York and the study’s co-lead
investigator, in a phone interview today.  The next step is to figure out why some patients respond
well to abiraterone while others don’t benefit, Scher said.  Provenge Results  Another treatment for prostate cancer, Seattle-based
 Dendreon Corp. ’s Provenge, helped patients live 4.1 months
longer than those given a placebo in tests used to gain
approval. Comparisons between the two drugs are difficult,
because the J&J drug was tested in sicker patients who had
failed on at least one chemotherapy, Scher said. In the Provenge
study, patients in the placebo group lived 21.7 months.  Provenge, the first drug designed to train the body’s
immune system to fight cancer, was cleared for sale by U.S.
regulators in April. It costs about $93,000 for three doses
administered over the course of a month, while abiraterone may
be priced at $27,000 annually, Biegelsen said.  “There is sufficient room for both Provenge and
abiraterone to be used in this line of therapy,”  Robyn Karnauskas , an analyst in New York for Deutsche Bank Equity
Research, wrote in a note to clients today.  J&J rose 6 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $63.29 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Dendreon rose
52 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $39.75.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ellen Gibson  in New York at 
 egibson9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 