-- Janchor, Former-TCI Asia Head John Ho's Hedge Fund, Returns 21% This Year
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-10-11T06:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/janchor-former-tci-asia-head-john-ho-s-hedge-fund-returns-21-this-year.html
Janchor Partners Pan Asian Fund, run
by the former Asia head of the Children’s Investment Fund
Management UK LLP, returned 21 percent after fees in the first
nine months of the year, according to an e-mail sent to
investors and seen by Bloomberg News.  The fund, which is led by Hong Kong-based Chief Investment
Officer  John Ho  and bets on stocks rising and falling, gained 6
percent after fees in September, said the e-mail dated Oct. 7.  Investors are seeking a new breed of Asian hedge funds that
can profit from declining share prices as well as rising stock
values, allowing them to better weather equity market swings.  The Janchor fund beat the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index’s 8
percent gain this year. The  Eurekahedge Asia Long/Short Equities
Hedge Fund Index  rose 3 percent in the same nine months, as
September’s 4.7 percent gain erased earlier losses from market
declines in January and May, according to preliminary numbers
from the Singapore-based hedge fund data provider.  The Janchor fund, which started trading in January,
generated 70 percent of the returns from rising stocks and the
rest from short bets, the e-mail said. In a short sale borrowed
stocks are sold in anticipation of buying them back at lower
prices. It didn’t provide further details on how the profit was
generated.  The Janchor fund increased assets to $200 million from $40
million at inception, Ho said last month.  About 70 percent of the capital in the fund is locked up
for three years, said two people familiar with the matter,
declining to be identified as the information is private.  Fund asset growth prompted Janchor to stop taking money for
the one-year lockup asset class from non-existing investors as
it intends to keep most of its capital locked up for longer term,
they said. The fund offers another share class that doesn’t
allow redemptions in the first two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  