-- Kraft Foods Loses Two More Former Cadbury Executives in Europe
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-10-11T20:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/kraft-european-executive-ignasi-ricou-leaving-company.html
Kraft Foods Inc.  said two European
executives are leaving, the latest of former Cadbury Plc
officials to depart since the food company’s $20 billion
takeover of the U.K. confectioner this year.  Ignasi Ricou, who joined Cadbury in 2003, ran European
sales and the gum and candy business,  Michael Mitchell , a
spokesman for Kraft, said in an e-mail.  Tamara Minick-Scokalo , a
Cadbury executive currently running Kraft’s European chocolate
business, is the other executive departing. Both are leaving for
personal reasons, Mitchell said.  “Given Cadbury were seen as having the stronger
confectionery management team, the loss of another senior former
Cadbury manager must increase concerns amongst Kraft
shareholders,”  Chris Bones , a former Cadbury human-resources
executive, said in an e-mail regarding Ricou’s departure. Bones
is now a professor at Manchester Business School in the U.K.  About 25 percent of Northfield, Illinois-based Kraft’s
sales come from Europe, according to a recent investor
 presentation . Revenue, excluding divestitures and other items,
rose 3.9 percent in the region in the second quarter, helped by
sales of Jacobs coffee and Philadelphia cream cheese, the
company said in August.  Kraft’s European chief,  Mike Clarke , aims to improve
profitability in Europe amid rising commodity prices and
competition from Nestle SA and Unilever. While integrating
Cadbury will take effort, the process is going well, he said in
August.  Ricou’s Contribution  “I would like to say a huge thank you to Ignasi for his
tremendous commitment, passion and leadership,” Clarke said in
an internal memo to employees obtained by Bloomberg. He credited
Ricou with “driving great execution in our gum and candy
business over many years, and more recently setting up our new
European  sales  strategy and organization.”  Kraft rose 15 cents to $31.08 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have advanced 14 percent
this year, compared with a 4.5 percent increase in the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index.  Cadbury’s three top officers -- Chairman  Roger Carr , Chief
Executive Officer  Todd Stitzer  and Chief Financial Officer
 Andrew Bonfield  -- said they would step down soon after Cadbury
shareholders approved the takeover this year. Former Cadbury
 managers  make up about one-third of the top 50 executives, Kraft
CEO  Irene Rosenfeld  said in an August interview.  Mark Reckitt , who was Cadbury’s chief strategy officer and
co-head of the integration team, left his post in July to take a
part-time consulting role with one of the company’s brands. Phil
Rumbol, Cadbury’s head of marketing for the U.K. and Ireland,
also left that month.  Ricou’s role will be split between two executives, Mitchell
said. The European sales team will now report to  Trevor Bond , a
former Cadbury executive, while  Maurizio Brusadelli , a Kraft
veteran, has been appointed president of gum and candy. Minick-
Scokalo will be replaced by be  Patrick Satamian , a Kraft
executive currently based in Dubai, Mitchell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  