-- Nasdaq Prepared to Consider Chi-X Europe Bid, CEO Greifeld Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-10-11T10:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/nasdaq-thought-about-would-consider-bidding-for-chi-x-europe-ceo-says.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. , which runs
seven Nordic and Baltic bourses and the second-largest U.S.
equity exchange, is prepared to consider a  takeover  of Chi-X
Europe Ltd., Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said.  “Clearly we have thought about Chi-X and it’s something we
would consider,” Greifeld said in an interview in Paris today.
“But there are literally hundreds of things we would consider
and some years we do nothing out of the 100. We have certainly
said we would be a willing recipient of the Chi-X book. The
purchase price and support of existing equity holders would be
fundamental to that though,” he said.  Last month, Chi-X Europe hired investment bank Lexicon
Partners Ltd. as an adviser after an unidentified company made
an approach to acquire the alternative trading venue, according
to two people with knowledge of the situation. Bats Global
Markets, which operates the third-largest U.S. equity market,
made the approach, people familiar with the situation said on
Aug. 24. Chi-X Europe only said it received an “enquiry” from
an unidentified suitor.  Chi-X Europe started in March 2007 and was the first
multilateral trading facility to challenge traditional European
bourses by offering lower fees and faster trading. It also
competes with Bats Europe, offering stocks listed by  London
Stock Exchange Group Plc ,  Deutsche Boerse AG , NYSE Euronext and
SIX Swiss Exchange AG.  Chi-X Owners  Chi-X Europe is partly owned by Instinet LLC, a New York-
based unit of  Nomura Holdings Inc. , and by investment banks
and traders including Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG , Getco
LLC, Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley.  “It’s our responsibility to understand the various players
in the space,” Greifeld said when asked about Nasdaq’s
acquisition policy. “When we do anything it has to be accretive
to our shareholders in a year and it has to be strategically
significant. Does it lever to the mothership?”  Bourses such as NYSE Euronext,  LSE , Deutsche Boerse in
Frankfurt and  Nasdaq  are seeking ways to win back market share
lost to new rivals after European regulators opened the market
to competition in 2007. LSE in February completed the purchase
of a majority stake in Turquoise, another electronic platform
owned by a group of banks.  Led by Greifeld, Nasdaq in 2008 bought Stockholm-based OMX
AB, Europe’s fifth-largest stock exchange, after two failed
attempts to acquire LSE. In April, the New York-based exchange
said it will shutter its Neuro pan-European alternative trading
system, which it had introduced in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 