-- NATO Endorses Afghan Government's Bid to Strike Peace Accord With Taliban
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-10-11T14:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/nato-endorses-afghan-government-s-bid-to-strike-peace-accord-with-taliban.html
NATO endorsed the Afghan
government’s bid to strike a peace accord with Taliban rebels to
end a war now in its 10th year.  A 68-member peace council was set up last week to
accelerate informal talks under way between Afghan President
 Hamid Karzai  and the insurgents trying to drive the 142,000
U.S.-led foreign troops from Afghanistan.  “I take it for granted that groups and individuals
involved in the reconciliation process not only put down their
weapons and cut off relations with terrorist groups but also
abide by and respect the Afghan constitution, including full
respect for human rights,”  North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
Secretary General  Anders Fogh Rasmussen  told reporters in
Brussels today. “Provided these conditions are fulfilled I
think we should give it a try.”  Efforts to reach a political settlement come as the public
in the U.S. and European countries tires of the war and tensions
mount with Pakistan, which blocked supply routes to Afghanistan
last week to protest the killing of three Pakistani soldiers in
an allied air strike.  Rasmussen didn’t say how NATO would support the
reconciliation process and declined to answer the
“hypothetical” question whether the talks should include
 Mullah Omar , the cleric who is the Taliban’s spiritual leader.  A former Afghan president,  Burhanuddin Rabbani , was named
yesterday to chair the peace council. Karzai said in a  CNN
interview  to be broadcast today that “unofficial personal
contacts” with Taliban representatives “have been going on for
quite some time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  