-- Israel Building Freeze Terms Rejected by Palestinians
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2010-10-12T11:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/netanyahu-makes-jewish-state-recognition-a-term-of-israeli-building-freeze.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  set terms for the renewal of a West Bank settlement
freeze that were swiftly rejected by the Palestinians, leaving
the status of U.S.-brokered peace talks in limbo.  Netanyahu told parliament yesterday he was ready to convene
his Cabinet and ask for a renewal of a freeze on settlement
building if “the Palestinian leadership tells its people in an
unequivocal manner that it recognizes Israel as the nation-state
of the Jewish people.”  Mohammad Shtayyeh , a member of the Palestinian Authority
negotiating team, said Netanyahu’s demand was “unacceptable.”  The comments come as the U.S. is trying to keep peace talks
between Israelis and Palestinians alive after Israel’s 10-month
freeze on construction in the West Bank expired on Sept. 26.
Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  has said he will
only return to talks if Israel reimposes the construction
moratorium.  “There is no way that the Palestinian Authority is going
to make this declaration,” said  Jonathan Spyer , a political
scientist at Israel’s Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya, near
Tel Aviv. “The government of Israel is trying to educate the
U.S. administration on why there is no basis for a productive
peace process at this point.”  Palestinian Refugees  The Palestinians reject Israel’s demand that they recognize
it as the state of the Jewish people on the grounds it
undermines the right of return for Palestinian refugees. Israel
says such recognition is necessary to ensure the Palestinians
don’t make additional claims once a peace treaty has been
signed.  Palestinian refusal to accept Israel as the Jewish homeland
and their unwillingness to renounce future claims against it
means “there is no chance in the coming years for a peace
agreement,” Minister of Strategic Affairs and Deputy Prime
Minister  Moshe Ya’alon , a member of Netanyahu’s Likud party,
told Israel’s Army Radio today.  Maja Kocijancic, spokeswoman for European Union foreign
policy chief  Catherine Ashton , said that “the future states of
Palestine and Israel will need to fully guarantee equality to
all their citizens.”  The Arab League last week backed the Palestinian
Authority’s position not to resume direct peace talks until
Israel renews the freeze, and gave U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration more time to revive the peace effort.  ‘Create Conditions’  “The parties must work constructively to create conditions
for the negotiations to continue,” U.S. State Department
spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said in an e-mail. “Both sides need
to take steps if we are going to move forward.”  Israel had signalled last week that a compromise may be
possible. “The U.S. has come back to Israel with a number of
suggestions, incentives if you would, that enable the government
to maybe pass a limited extension of two or three months,”
Ambassador  Michael Oren  told the Washington Post.  Shtayyeh said Netanyahu was “adding additional
complications” to the renewal of talks. “We hope that the
international community will bring Israel into the talks without
any conditionality,” he said.  Netanyahu faces opposition from most of his Cabinet to
renewing the freeze. Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman , who
lives in a settlement and leads the second-largest party in the
coalition, has said he will fight a renewal.  Citizenship Oath  The Cabinet, on Netanyahu’s initiative, on Oct. 10 approved
a change to the country’s citizenship oath, adding words to
emphasize the “Jewish and democratic” nature of the state, in
what analysts said was a gesture to Lieberman and others.  Lieberman’s Yisrael Beitenu party has in the past proposed
that all Israelis, including Israeli Arabs, swear a loyalty
oath.  Tal Nahum, Yisrael Beitenu spokesman, said the party had
not yet decided if it would support a renewed freeze should the
Palestinians meet Netanyahu’s conditions. “The party will give
its opinion when it becomes relevant and is brought to a Cabinet
and parliamentary decision,” Nahum said in a phone interview.  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and east
Jerusalem since Israel captured the territory in 1967.  The United Nations says that settlements are illegal, and
the  International Committee of the Red Cross  says they breach
the  Fourth Geneva Convention  governing actions on occupied
territory. Obama has said the settlements aren’t legitimate.  International Convention  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  Israel and the Palestinians agreed last month to try and
reach an agreement on the framework for a comprehensive peace
accord within a year. All the issues at the core of the conflict
would be on the table, including the borders of a future
Palestinian state, security arrangements for Israel, the right
of return for Palestinian refugees, and the status of Jerusalem.  Spyer said he expected more bargaining in the month before
the Arab League meets again to discuss the peace process.
“There will be a series of proposals and counterproposals,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 