-- New South Wales State Sets Nov. 15 as Deadline for Bids on Power Assets
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-11T00:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/new-south-wales-state-sets-nov-15-as-deadline-for-bids-on-power-assets.html
The New South Wales government said
it will extend the deadline to submit bids for the Australian
state’s electricity assets by two weeks to Nov. 15, while still
aiming to complete the transactions by the end of the year.  New South Wales plans to develop the Cobbora coal mine to
supply state-owned power stations with fuel, the government said
in a statement posted on its  website  yesterday. The decision to
keep ownership of the Cobbora resource will “deliver greater
certainty” for costs to generate electricity, the state said.  “The New South Wales government is committing itself to
mining coal at a somewhat uncertain cost because they haven’t
started mining yet, but they are guaranteeing the prices just
the same,”  David Leitch , an analyst at UBS in Sydney, said by
phone. “The fact they are prepared to give this commitment
indicates just how determined they are to get the deal done.”  The state aims to sell three retail businesses,
EnergyAustralia, Country Energy and Integral Energy, that may be
worth A$3 billion ($2.97 billion), Citigroup Inc. estimated in
February. New South Wales also plans to sell development sites
for new power plants and to contract the right to sell power
produced by state-owned generators to trading companies.  AGL Energy Ltd.  and  Origin Energy Ltd. , the Australian gas
and electricity retailers, have said they are interested in the
New South Wales businesses. TRUenergy Holdings Pty., a unit of
Hong Kong’s CLP Holdings Ltd., is also evaluating a bid, CLP
Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Brandler  said Sept. 28.  The state previously said that bids were due by Nov. 1. New
South Wales “remains committed” to an end-of-year target for
completing the sale of assets, a government spokesman said today,
declining to give his name citing the state’s policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 