-- Nigeria, Zambia May Sell First Bonds as Africa Lures Investors on Yields
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-12T14:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/nigeria-zambia-sell-first-bonds-as-africa-lures-yield-seeking-investors.html
Nigeria and Zambia are among African
nations turning to global capital markets for the first time as
falling yields worldwide and better economic management enable
them to raise the funds needed to sustain growth.  Nigeria appointed Barclays Capital this month as an adviser
for its planned $500 million Eurobond, while Zambia says it will
raise $1 billion once it gets a sovereign credit rating this
year. Kenya, Tanzania and Angola are considering similar issues,
while Sudan will sell $300 million of Islamic bonds next year.  Africa is tapping markets abroad as investment from China
and India and its own burgeoning consumer spending fuel economic
growth in excess of 5 percent a year. That is adding to strains
on obsolete road and rail networks, while increasing power
shortages on a continent of 1 billion people that has
electricity capacity equivalent to Spain’s. With yields near
zero in Europe, the U.S. and Japan, investors are looking to
markets they previously shunned.  “The timing is perfect,” said  Samir Gadio , an emerging-
markets strategist in London at  Standard Bank Group Ltd. ,
Africa’s biggest lender. “Global yields are extremely low and
that’s pushed a lot of countries to tap international markets.
We’ll see good demand for these bonds. There’s just so much
excess liquidity across the globe.”  Only seven  sub-Saharan African  countries -- South Africa,
Seychelles, Senegal, Ivory Coast, Gabon, Republic of Congo and
Ghana -- have sovereign bonds. All of them, aside from South
Africa, have entered the market since 2007.  Falling Yields  South Africa’s $2 billion bond maturing in March 2020,
yielded 3.69 percent as of yesterday, 138 basis points lower
than when the securities were sold in June, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Ghana’s 8.5 percent dollar-
denominated bonds, due October 2017, has fallen 239 basis points
to 5.78 percent this year.  Other African nations are reviving plans to sell Eurobonds,
which are issued in a currency that’s not the local unit and
marketed to international investors, after delays caused by the
global financial crisis in late 2008. Tanzania is returning to
work on its bond plan after postponing a sale of $500 million of
the securities in 2008, Deputy Finance Minister Omar Yusuf Mzee
said on Oct. 8, declining to give details.  Angola, which received a B+ credit rating from Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings in May, may sell $1 billion to $2
billion of international bonds, Finance Minister Carlos Lopes
said on April 15. Zambian Finance Minister  Situmbeko Musokotwane 
said on May 28 the government will proceed with a bond sale once
it receives a credit rating before the end of the year.  ‘Fantastic Idea’  “It’s a fantastic idea to diversify their sources of
funding,” said  David Damiba , managing director in London for
Renaissance Asset Managers, a unit of Moscow-based Renaissance
Group. “It’s important that these countries would want a
benchmark bond” so that other assets can be priced
appropriately by investors.  Kenya is holding off on selling its planned $500 million
sovereign bond as the global recovery is “still uncertain,”
Geoffrey Mwau, economic secretary in the Finance Ministry, said
on Aug. 10. Sudan will seek investors from the Persian Gulf
region for its $300 million of Islamic bonds because U.S.
economic sanctions have denied the country access to other
international markets, central bank Governor  Sabir Hassan  said
in an interview in Khartoum on Sept. 6.  Cash Pile  “Africa is relatively new to investors,” said  Stuart Culverhouse , chief economist of London-based Exotix Ltd., which
advises clients on investments in illiquid markets. “After the
last 20 to 30 years of really bad news, the past five to six
years have been generally positive. There’s a cash pile just
waiting to be invested. African Eurobonds will definitely be
well-received.”  Of the 19 sub-Saharan African countries that have sovereign
credit ratings from Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings, only four have investment-grade ratings:
South Africa, Botswana, Namibia and Mauritius. Debt ratings will
rise if countries address the “infrastructure gap that is the
biggest bottleneck” facing the continent, said  Veronica Kalema ,
Fitch’s Africa sovereign analyst in London.  Some economic fundamentals have improved in Ghana, Zambia,
Nigeria, Tanzania and Uganda. Most of their foreign debt,
totaling about $33 billion, was canceled by lenders such as the
International Monetary Fund and the U.S. starting in 2000.  Nigeria’s sovereign debt was 15 percent of gross domestic
product in 2009, according to data from the IMF. That compares
with 115 percent in Greece, 77 percent in Portugal and 116
percent in Italy. Zambian government debt was 26 percent of GDP
in 2009, 37 percent in Tanzania and 60 percent in Ghana, the IMF
said in its April 2010  Regional Economic Outlook for Sub-Saharan
Africa .  Learning the Lessons  “Africa came out of a serious debt crisis,”  Obiageli Ezekwesili , the World Bank’s head of Africa, told reporters on
Oct. 6. “If the continent does not watch it and throws itself
into a debt crisis, that would be like not learning the right
lessons.”  The temptations to rack up debt again remain. The World
Bank estimates that Africa needs to spend $93 billion a year on
power, transport and water projects over the next decade to lift
growth in the world’s poorest continent.  “Power is a priority for the country,” Nigeria’s Finance
Minister  Olusegun Aganga  said on Sept. 3. “We can’t afford to
fund all our infrastructure from the budget.”  Blackouts are a daily occurrence in Nigeria, a country of
140 million people that has a generating capacity of just 3,000
megawatts. The government wants to raise that to 14,000
megawatts by 2013.  Eurobond sellers will have to rein in fiscal deficits and
limit any shortfall in their current accounts, to show that they
can repay the money.  “It puts the countries on their toes,” said  Kofi Wampah ,
first deputy governor of the central bank of Ghana, which is
considering selling its second security in international
markets, speaking in an interview from his office in Accra on
Oct. 7. “You have to ensure that your fundamentals are always
right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  