-- Nigeria Says it Plans to Introduce Electricity Pricing Regime in November
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2010-10-11T14:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/nigeria-to-introduce-electricity-pricing-regime-in-november.html
Nigeria  will introduce an
electricity pricing regime in November before the government
sells distribution companies and allows private investments to
build power plants in Africa’s most populous country.  “Pricing and regulatory issues are being sorted out and
should be completed next month,”  Barth Nnaji , an adviser to
Nigeria’s President Goodluck Jonathan, said in an interview on
Oct. 8 in Abuja. The government will then be able to provide
“the appropriate information to buyers as to what tariffs they
can expect,” he said.  The market-determined plan will replace subsidized prices
where consumers pay 6 naira ($0.04) a kilowatt, he said.  President  Jonathan  on Aug. 26 announced a plan to end the
state power monopoly and allow private investments in
generation. The government will sell 11 distribution units of
Power Holding Co. of Nigeria and allow private companies to
build gas-fired, coal-fueled and hydropower plants.  Power cuts occur daily in Nigeria, where demand for
electricity is almost double the current supply of 3,000
megawatts. The government wants to increase output to 14,019
megawatts by 2013.  Six companies, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ,  Standard
Chartered Plc , have expressed interest in advising on the sale
of the power generation and distribution companies that will be
completed by the first half of next year, the adviser said.  An investors’ forum will be held Oct. 14 to Oct. 15 in the
capital, Abuja, that will be attended by representatives from
General Electric Co., Rolls Royce Group Plc, and companies from
China, South Korea and India, Nnaji said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 