-- Nobel Winner Liu's Wife Under House Arrest, Group Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-11T11:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/nobel-winner-liu-xiaobo-s-wife-is-under-house-arrest-in-china-group-says.html
The wife of jailed Chinese dissident
and Nobel Peace Prize winner  Liu Xiaobo  has been placed under
house arrest in Beijing and barred from communicating with media
and friends, said pressure group Human Rights in China.  Security officers followed Liu Xia when she returned to
China’s capital from visiting her husband in Jinzhou, Liaoning
province, where the 54-year-old is serving an 11-year prison
sentence, the group said in an e-mailed statement. Liu was told
she can only leave home with a police escort, the group said.  Liu talked with his wife for about an hour and said he had
already been informed of the Oct. 8 decision to award him the
Nobel prize,  Human Rights in China  cited Liu Xia as saying. Liu
dedicated the prize to those killed in the 1989 Tiananmen Square
protests, the group said, citing his wife.  “The Chinese government doesn’t want Liu Xia to be present
to accept the prize on her husband’s behalf,” said  Willy Lam ,
adjunct professor of history at the Chinese University of Hong
Kong. “It will be an empty seat in Oslo when the award ceremony
comes around.”  The award of the Nobel prize to Liu, a writer jailed on
charges of plotting to subvert the ruling Communist Party, drew
denunciation from the Chinese government and a call for his
immediate release from U.S. President  Barack Obama .  “The Nobel Peace Prize has become a political tool for the
western countries,” according to a translation of a report by
Russia’s RIA Novosti carried by China’s Xinhua News Agency today.
China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs declined to comment.  Charter 08  Liu was taken into custody on December 2008 for his role in
organizing Charter 08, an open letter calling for direct
elections and the freedom of assembly in China. More than 300
Chinese academics, lawyers and activists signed the letter. He
was sentenced to 11 years in prison on Christmas day last year.  Charter 08 drew inspiration and its name from Charter 77,
the dissident group founded in Czechoslovakia in the 1970s that
urged that country’s then-Communist regime to respect human
rights.  Vaclav Havel , the former president of the Czech Republic,
and other members of Charter 77 said in a letter published in
the International Herald Tribune on Sept. 20 that the 2010 Nobel
Peace Prize should be awarded to Liu.  China’s “dramatic progress”  economically  contrasts with
political reform, which has “not kept pace,” Obama, last
year’s Nobel Peace Prize winner, said in a statement issued
after Liu’s award was announced.  Harm Relations  The Norwegian Nobel Committee awarded the prize to Liu
“for his long and non-violent struggle for fundamental human
rights in China.” The decision violated the prize’s purpose and
will harm relations with Norway,  Ma Zhaoxu , a spokesman for
China’s Foreign Ministry said.  China canceled a meeting with Norwegian Fisheries Minister
 Lisbeth Berg-Hansen  in Beijing on Oct. 13 following the award of
the prize, Agence France-Presse said, citing Norwegian foreign
ministry spokeswoman Ragnhild Imerslund.  “Beijing expects the Western world to accommodate its
wishes as China becomes more powerful and the Chinese market
more important,” the Chinese University of Hong Kong’s Lam said.
“This award obviously shows that’s not happening.”  Liu also previously took part in the protests on Beijing’s
Tiananmen Square in 1989. He was held in police custody for 21
months after soldiers and tanks were sent in to retake the
square from demonstrators and then sent to a labor camp for
three years from 1996.  Liu Xia’s mobile phone and that of her brother had been
“interfered with” and her Internet access cut off, Human
Rights in China  said .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Grant at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  