-- Nokia Climbs in Helsinki After Goldman Sachs Raises Price Target
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2010-10-11T16:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/nokia-climbs-in-helsinki-after-goldman-sachs-raises-price-target.html
Nokia Oyj  rose 1.4 percent in
Helsinki trading today after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its
price target for the world’s biggest mobile-phone maker.  Nokia climbed 10.5 cents to 7.855 euros, valuing the
company at about 29.4 billion euros ($40.8 billion). Goldman
Sachs analysts including  Tim Boddy  today raised their 12-month
price target for Nokia to 8.6 euros from 7.8 euros, citing a
better device portfolio and demand for smartphones based on its
Symbian 3 platform.  “We expect strong smartphone demand, healthy sell-in of
Nokia’s new Symbian 3 products and an improved basic
portfolio,” the analysts wrote in the report. That will “boost
the company’s near-term earnings,” they said.  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Elop , who took charge last
month, is looking to turn around a slide in Nokia’s share of the
lucrative smartphone market with new phones and software that
can compete with devices such as  Apple Inc.’s  iPhone and phones
from Samsung Electronics Co. The N8 smartphone, which Nokia is
pitching as a competitor to its rivals’ high-end devices, began
shipping on Sept. 30.  Delays in the N8 have cost the company. It lowered its
earnings forecast three times before managing to fulfill its
promise of a third-quarter start for the N8, the first device in
a new premium line running the revamped Symbian 3 software.  Market Share  The company’s share of the world smartphone market declined
to 37.4 percent in the second quarter compared with 45 percent
in the same period last year, according to  Gartner Inc.   While new products running Nokia’s Symbian 3 operating
system will see “healthy” sales, “Nokia has lost the high-end
consumer in the U.S. and Europe,” the Goldman analysts wrote.
“Nokia is fast losing its scale advantage” and faces
significant long-term risk, they added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Kati Pohjanpalo  in Helsinki 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net ; 