-- Novartis's Afinitor Fails to Slow Rare Form of Pancreatic Cancer in Trial
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2010-10-11T13:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/novartis-s-afinitor-fails-to-slow-rare-form-of-pancreatic-cancer-in-trial.html
Novartis AG’s Afinitor kidney cancer
drug didn’t meet the goal of a late-stage clinical trial,
slowing a rare form of neuroendocrine cancer, researchers said.  Afinitor combined with the company’s Sandostatin drug
failed to stop neuroendocrine tumors, or NET, from growing,
Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis said in an e-mailed statement
today. The research was presented at the  European Society for
Medical Oncology  meeting today in Milan.  Afinitor is approved as a treatment for patients with
advanced kidney cancer who aren’t helped by standard therapies.
The drug works by blocking mTOR, a cell messenger that controls
cell growth and reproduction.  “A key goal of treating patients with advanced NET is to
extend time without tumor growth,”  Marianne Pavel , a professor
of medicine at the Charité Hospital in Berlin, said in the
release.  The trial, dubbed RADIANT-2, included 429 patients with
advanced NET who received either Afinitor or Afinitor plus
Sandostatin. The most frequent side effects were stomatitis,
rash, fatigue and diarrhea. The trial failed to reach its goal
of extending progression-free survival, a common measure of a
drug’s efficacy.  The failure is due to discrepancies in separate readouts of
x-rays used to determine disease progression, according to David
Lebwohl, who heads Novartis’ Afinitor program. “We have issues
with the methodology of the study,” Lebwohl said in a telephone
interview today.  The tumors grow in the neuroendocrine system, which
consists of cells that have the properties both of nerve cells
and of hormone-making cells. The growths can be found throughout
the body, according to the  American Cancer Society .  Novartis estimates that 5 patients in 100,000 are diagnosed
with NET every year.  Another study, RADIANT-3, showed that Afinitor, also known
as everolimus, kept advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors at
bay for 11 months, more than twice as long as for patients given
the best supportive care treatment plus placebo, Novartis said
in June. The company plans to seek regulatory approval this year
for the use of Afinitor against neuroendocrine tumors, using
data from both studies, Novartis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  