-- Obama Says `Crumbling' Infrastructure Hinders Growth
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2010-10-11T17:54:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/obama-says-crumbling-transport-infrastructure-hinders-growth-of-economy.html
President  Barack Obama  proposed a
$50 billion transportation spending program that he said would
boost jobs in the construction, manufacturing and retail
industries and help rebuild the nation’s infrastructure.  “Crumbling” roads, bridges, airports and rail lines are
hindering U.S. economic growth,  Obama said after meeting with
members of his Cabinet, former transportation secretaries, as
well as governors and mayors from around the country.  Obama’s remarks, promoting his infrastructure spending plan
announced last month, came the week after New Jersey Governor
 Chris Christie  canceled construction of a commuter-rail tunnel
link to New York, citing cost overruns on the $8.7 billion
project.  A report by the Treasury Department and White House Council
of Economic Advisers said that about 90 percent of the new jobs
in those three segments of the economy would fall in the middle-
class range. The construction industry, where unemployment
exceeds 17 percent, would benefit the most, with 61 percent of
the jobs created. The unemployment rate is 9.6 percent
nationally.  “For years we have deferred tough decisions” on
rebuilding transportation systems, Obama said. “It should not
take another collapsing bridge or failing levee to shock us into
action.”  Competitive Edge  The infrastructure spending also will keep the U.S.
competitive with other nations that are investing in systems to
move goods and information.  Obama, who outlined the plan last month in Milwaukee, said
today that the European Union and China spend more on roads,
rails and related projects than does the U.S.  “They’re creating jobs today, but they’re also playing to
win tomorrow,” Obama said. “The bottom line is our
shortsightedness has come due. We can no longer afford to sit
still.”  Representative  John Mica , the top Republican on the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, criticized the plan
for being too little, too late and postponing a long-term
surface transportation spending bill.  “Unfortunately this last minute report is a pitiful and
tardy political excuse for the administration having killed last
year any chance for a long-term transportation measure,” Mica,
of Florida, said in a statement. “Even more astounding is their
regurgitation and attempted justification of a $50 billion
spending proposal while more than 60 percent of the stimulus
infrastructure dollars remain unspent.”  Momentum  Today’s White House meeting was called “to keep the
momentum and the drumbeat going, so when Congress comes back,
hopefully one of their priorities will be $50 billion, and then
next year, the six-year plan” of about $500 billion,
Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  told reporters after Obama’s
statement.  Even if Republicans gain seats in the Nov. 2 election, the
White House is counting on a bipartisan support for a
reauthorization of transportation spending legislation next
year. LaHood said talks about the exact size and shape of the
measure are under way without giving specifics on how it might
be funded. Obama has said he opposes raising the federal
gasoline tax, the primary source of federal funding for
highways.  “The tradition of Congress is to work in a bipartisan
way” on transportation, said LaHood, a former Republican
congressman from Illinois. “This will be paid for; this will
not be put on the debt.”  Stimulus  Asked about skepticism about the value of $48 billion in
public works programs in the stimulus package, LaHood was blunt.  “The idea that stimulus didn’t work is nonsense,” he
said.  LaHood also said the administration is continuing to
discuss options with Christie on the tunnel over the next two
weeks in an effort to salvage the project, which would double
the number of commuter trains to New York at peak times.  The administration has committed $3 billion to the job, its
largest contribution to a single project.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 