-- Crude Oil Futures Slip on Concern That Demand Recovery Is Not Fast Enough
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-11T12:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/oil-rises-a-second-day-amid-speculation-fed-may-buy-debt-to-boost-economy.html
Oil gave up earlier gains as the
dollar recovered and traders bet that demand isn’t rebounding
fast enough to justify this month’s increase.  Global oil markets are “oversupplied,” Iranian OPEC
governor  Mohammad Ali Khatibi  was cited as saying on Oct. 9 by
the Iranian Students News Agency. The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries may leave oil production unchanged when it
meets in three days’ time because signs of renewed consumption
have yet to emerge among the world’s developed economies.  “Fundamentals still aren’t strong enough to keep us
supported at these levels for the long term, especially if the
dollar strengthens,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker at
Bache Commodities Ltd. in London.  Crude for November delivery was at $82.75 a barrel, 9 cents
higher in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 1:09 p.m. London time, after gaining as much as 84 cents, or
1 percent, to $83.50 a barrel. Futures climbed 99 cents to
$82.66 on Oct 8. Brent crude for November settlement fell as
much as 52 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $83.51 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London.  The dollar was little changed at $1.3941 per euro after
slipping as much as 0.5 percent to $1.4012. The Federal Reserve
may purchase bonds in a strategy known as quantitative easing,
weakening the U.S. currency.  OPEC Quotas  The oil market is “a little oversupplied,”  Mohamed al- Hamli , the oil minister of the United Arab Emirates, the third-
biggest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, said Oct. 9. OPEC members are all exceeding their
allotted quotas after prices surged 78 percent in 2009 and a
further 4 percent this year.  “I don’t think there will be any shift” in quotas by OPEC,
Qatari Oil Minister  Abdullah al-Attiyah  said in a phone
interview yesterday after meeting in Kuwait with ministers from
Saudi Arabia and other Persian Gulf nations. “Producers and
consumers are happy” with current oil prices, he said.  Hedge funds raised bullish bets on oil to the highest level
in more than five months amid speculation that the Fed will
enact further stimulus measures, data from regulators showed
last week. The Fed will release minutes from its September
meeting tomorrow.  Hedge funds and other large speculators  increased wagers  on
rising crude prices by 44 percent in the seven days ended Oct.
5, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
weekly Commitments of Traders report. It was the highest level
since April 23.  French Strikes  A strike by workers at the French port of Marseille’s oil
terminals entered its 15th day, forcing the government to
transport fuel by road and rail to avoid shortages as refineries
in the region begin shutting.  Unions have called for a broader, nationwide strike in
various industries starting tomorrow at refineries, gas and
electricity utilities and the SNCF national railway against the
government’s plans to raise the retirement age. Workers have
blocked traffic at the oil terminals of Fos and Lavera at
Marseille for more than two weeks in protest against a 2008
overhaul of the country’s ports system.  Deutsche Bank AG raised its fourth-quarter 2010 and first-
quarter 2011 forecasts for both Nymex and Brent oil to $80 a
barrel, a level compatible with equity and currency levels,
according to an Oct. 8 report by  Adam Sieminski , chief energy
economist. The bank’s previous forecasts, in mid-September, were
$70 for the fourth quarter and $75 for the first.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  