-- Home Prices Are Love Affair That Is Bound to Fail: Matthew Lynn
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 2010-10-11T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/home-prices-are-love-affair-that-is-bound-to-fail-matthew-lynn.html
Financial analysts who have been
making a living predicting the direction of the U.K. property
market haven’t been short of data in recent days.  House prices  are in freefall, so hop on a train to Heathrow
Airport and catch the last plane to Shanghai before the whole
country collapses. No, wait a moment, they are rising again.
Pile into the  FTSE-100 index  while you still can.  These soothsayers should all retrain to do something more
useful -- like melting ice cubes and then refreezing them. It is
time for the British to give up their long, passionate affair
with rampant property inflation.  U.K. house prices are still overvalued, and are a threat to
the nation’s future. The property market is a distraction from
the work of rebuilding an  economy  toward one based on
manufacturing and exports. And the vast wealth created by the
real-estate boom has created social divisions between the young
and old, and the middle and working classes.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government and the Bank of
England should do what they can to influence the cost of homes
by targeting a decade of stable or slightly falling prices.  Halifax, the mortgage-lending unit of Lloyds Banking Group
Plc, last week said the price of the average home fell 3.6
percent in September compared with August. That was the steepest
monthly fall since it started tracking prices in 1983.  State of Flux  That was contradicted by research company Acadametrics Ltd.
and LSL Property Services Plc. They reported last week that
house prices in England and Wales had risen to a two-year high
in September. Led by London, prices gained 0.2 percent on the
month and 7 percent compared with a year earlier.  Clearly, the market is in a state of flux. With an economy
that is barely growing, and with big government-spending cuts
scheduled, it is hard to find much confidence in real estate.  And yet, the point is that it isn’t needed. Another
property boom is the last thing Britain should want right now.  Admittedly, for most of the past two decades, housing was a
pretty good indicator of the overall health of the economy. It
was about as simple as reading a children’s book: If house
prices were up, and  mortgage lending  was buoyant, the economy
would soon follow. All the buyers would soon be rushing down to
the shops to fill their new homes with televisions and
furniture. Everyone else would feel wealthier because their
houses were worth much more and would promptly buy a new car or
book a winter holiday to celebrate. House prices told you
everything you needed to know.  But the U.K. needs to move on from its addiction to rising
house prices. Here’s why.  Old Yardsticks  First, house prices are still too high. The International
Monetary Fund made that point last week. “What remains
worrisome, however, is that house prices are still high based on
traditional valuation yardsticks,” it said in its World
Economic Outlook. Spot on. Even after a deep recession, and the
collapse of several mortgage lenders, the British property
market has hardly corrected at all.  From 1999 to 2009, the total value of privately owned
housing in the U.K. rose from 1.719 trillion pounds to 3.755
trillion pounds,  according to Halifax . It has declined 8 percent
since 2007, hardly a scratch in the gains of the past decade.  Second, the U.K. needs to rebalance its economy away from
property development, borrowing and consumption toward
manufacturing and exports. There are some hopeful signs that it
is happening. Manufacturing is reviving. The latest data from
the U.K.’s Office for National Statistics showed factory output
up 0.3 percent in August, more than most economists forecast.  Right Direction  It’s not great, but for a country where manufacturing had
virtually been forgotten it is an encouraging early sign.
Exports rose to a two year-high in June, then slipped back a bit
the following month. Again, it is a fragile, mixed picture. But
the U.K. is taking a few small steps in the right direction. It
needs to continue on that path. It doesn’t need another house
price boom to knock it from that course.  Three, the crazy price of housing has become hugely
divisive. The middle-aged and elderly have vast amounts of
housing wealth built up in the long boom, while the young find
it very hard to get a first step on the property ladder. Worse,
it is getting even harder for them, as mortgage lending has
become much tighter. Likewise, middle-class families can use
their housing wealth to help their children buy properties and
get through university. Working-class families can’t. The U.K.
needs a sensibly priced property market to make society more
socially mobile, and fairer as well.  In reality, Britain needs to turn all its attitudes toward
property upside down. Each month, as the data gets published,
any rise in house prices should be met with disappointment. And
a drop should be welcomed.  ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a forthcoming book on the Greek debt crisis. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  