-- Hong Kong Boosts `Fish Ball' Wages as Wealth Gap Widens
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-10-12T07:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/hong-kong-boosts-fish-ball-wages-as-asia-s-biggest-wealth-gap-irks-china.html
Ng Chu-chee works six nights a week
cleaning toilets and staircases at a shopping mall in Hong Kong,
Asia’s third-richest economy. She makes the equivalent of $3.22
an hour, less than half the U.S. federal minimum wage.  “It’s a struggle to make ends meet,” said Ng, a 55-year-
old single mother who supports herself and her 14-year-old son
on HK$3,600 ($463) a month, earning an hourly rate of HK$25. “I
really hope the government can help people like us.”  Hong Kong plans to enact its first minimum wage this year
in an effort to address the biggest gap between rich and poor in
Asia. The decision, part of efforts across Asia to contain
threats to social cohesion from rising inequality, has at the
same time sparked warnings it will undermine the competitiveness
of a city that built its wealth on free-market capitalism.  Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  has pledged to make
poverty relief a focus of his annual policy address tomorrow. In
December, China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  told him to address “deep-
rooted contradictions” in the self-governing former U.K. colony.
China itself is among nations from Argentina to Ukraine boosting
minimum wages after the global financial crisis and recession
drove up inequality.  “We see a market failure emerging in wage setting,” said
 Raymond So , a professor at the business school of Hang Seng
Management College in Hong Kong. “The government has to do
something to address the income-polarization issue and it can’t
hide behind the shield of the ‘free market’ anymore.”  Poverty Worsens  The number of people living in poverty in Hong Kong rose to
a record 1.26 million, or about 18.1 percent of the total
population, in the first half of 2010 from 1.2 million last year,
the Hong Kong  Council of Social Service , an advisory body to the
government, said in an Oct. 3 report.  That increase came after the city already recorded in 2008
the biggest wealth disparity in Asia, with a Gini coefficient of
0.53, compared with 0.22 for Beijing and an average of 0.39 for
the region, according to data compiled by the  United Nations .
The coefficient measures inequality in a range from zero to 1,
with zero referring to total equality.  Inequality is rising even as the economy of the city of
7.15 million recovers from its  deepest recession  in more than a
decade. Hong Kong’s gross domestic product climbed 6.5 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier. The wealth divide is
the most pressing social problem in Hong Kong, a July survey of
894 residents by the Chinese University of Hong Kong found.  Government Plan  “Economic health can seldom be sustained without social
stability,” the government said in a written reply to Bloomberg
News last month. “We consider safeguarding the interests of the
vulnerable and enhancing social harmony are important policy
objectives.”  The median monthly income of the poorest 10 percent of
households was HK$3,000 in the second quarter, unchanged from
2005, charity Oxfam Hong Kong said in a  report  last month. The
income of the richest 10 percent gained 16 percent to HK$80,900,
Oxfam said, citing statistics department data. The city had per-
capita GDP of $29,803 in 2009, trailing only Japan and Singapore
in Asia, according to International Monetary Fund data.  Hong Kong’s dilemma highlights how the global response to
the financial crisis may have fueled inequality in emerging Asia.
An average of about $2 billion a day in capital is flowing into
the region in search of higher returns after central banks in
developed nations cut interest rates to record lows and pumped
liquidity into the global system, DBS Group Holdings Inc.
estimates. That’s pushing asset prices up faster than wages.  Property Values  In Hong Kong, property prices have surged 47 percent since
the start of 2009.  Real, or inflation-adjusted, wages , by
contrast, have fallen since the crisis and are lower than in
2001, according to government data.  In Taiwan, the wealth disparity in 2009 was the widest in
eight years as home prices increased and average disposable
incomes fell 2.9 percent, according to the statistics bureau.
The island’s government plans to raise the monthly minimum wage
by 3.47 percent to NT$17,880 ($563) on Jan. 1.  “For Hong Kong and Taiwan, minimum-wage hikes will likely
boost confidence among consumers and thus help sustain the
consumption recovery,” said  Donna Kwok , a Hong Kong-based
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. Taiwan’s economy grew 12.5
percent in the second quarter.  The minimum wage has split lawmakers, echoing a debate in
the U.S. on the government’s role in alleviating the effects of
the recession. The U.S. poverty rate rose to a 15-year high of
14.3 percent in 2009.  Risk to Earnings  While Hong Kong’s government says the minimum wage will
help the economy by raising purchasing power, business owners
say they are concerned that setting the floor too high will push
some companies into bankruptcy.  “We can’t raise prices a lot as that would drive customers
away -- at the same time, we can’t sustain the business if we
absorb all the losses,” said Thomas Woo, whose Hsin Kuang
Restaurant Group runs more than 10 Chinese restaurants.  Labor groups have called for a wage floor of HK$33 an hour.
 Tommy Cheung , who represents the catering industry in Hong
Kong’s Legislative Council, says companies in his industry can’t
pay more than HK$24.  “A good number of people will lose their jobs, with those
low-skilled, new immigrants and aged more than 50 taking the
hardest hit,” said Cheung, who is also vice chairman of the
pro-business Liberal Party.  HK$20 an Hour  Cheung faced criticism earlier this year after proposing a
HK$20 floor. Residents compared that with the price of a bowl of
fish-ball noodles, a Hong Kong staple, and challenged Cheung to
live on that wage for a month, the Standard newspaper reported
on March 24, citing Wong Kwok-hing, a union-backed legislator.  Workers in the catering and retail industries are among the
lowest-paid in Hong Kong, with  Dairy Farm International Holdings
Ltd. ’s 7-Eleven convenience store chain paying some employees as
little as HK$20 an hour, according to an August survey by the
People’s Alliance for Minimum Wage, a union-backed group.  Joey Chan, a Dairy Farm spokeswoman, said the company will
respect the minimum wage set. McDonald’s Corp., which has 221
outlets in the city, will “respect the decision of the
government” and “abide by the relevant regulations,” Darwin
Li, vice president of the U.S.  restaurant  chain’s Hong Kong unit,
said in an e-mail. Both companies declined to reveal wage levels.  Announcement Soon  Tsang may announce the level this month, after lawmakers
approved enabling legislation following a 41-hour debate in July.
The government may set the minimum at HK$29 an hour, the
Standard reported on Aug. 31, without saying where it got the
information.  Hong Kong’s minimum wage represents a departure for a city
that has made free-market policies and low taxes the cornerstone
of its economic philosophy. The government has prided itself on
being named the world’s freest economy for the past 16 years,
based on the  Index of Economic Freedom  compiled by  The Heritage
Foundation , a conservative U.S. think-tank.  Ng, the cleaner working the midnight shift, is hoping
Tsang’s decision will help her put more money aside for her
son’s education.  “It’s really a shame that my wage can’t support our basic
needs,” she said. “Hong Kong is always a world just for the
rich.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  