-- Moody’s Cuts Seneca Gaming Rating as Tribe Disputes State Fee
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-10-11T21:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/moody-s-cuts-seneca-gaming-rating-as-tribe-disputes-new-york-state-payment.html
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded
Seneca Gaming Corp. and $500 million of its senior unsecured
debt as the casino operator disputes New York state’s claim that
it owes $214 million in overdue fees for its gambling business.  Moody’s cut the rating to B1 from Ba2 and said in a note
today it’s reviewing the possibility of further cuts. The Seneca
Nation American Indian tribe, which operates three casinos in
western New York through Seneca Gaming, is withholding payments
because it  says  the state violated an exclusivity agreement by
introducing slot machines at racetracks and allowing gaming at
private businesses.  The casinos are the “sole source of debt repayment” for
Seneca Gaming’s $500 million of notes due in 2012, Moody’s said.  New York Governor  David Paterson ’s counsel Peter Kiernan
sent a letter to Seneca President  Barry E. Snyder Sr . on Oct. 6
saying the nation’s failure to remit revenue-sharing payments
for the past two years constitutes a breach of contract and that
the state is entitled to terminate an eight-year-old  gaming
compact . Kiernan gave the tribe 14 days to resolve the matter.  The disputed payments aren’t in a restricted account or
being held by an independent third party so “there is no formal
assurance that the Nation will have or make these funds
available if it is determined that as part of any settlement,
all or a portion of it has to be paid,” Moody’s analysts Zhenyu
Zhao and  Kendra Smith  wrote.  Seneca Gaming exchanged $200 million of freely tradable,
registered 7.25 percent senior notes due in 2012 for similar,
privately placed securities in 2006, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The notes were initially issued on May 23, 2005,
according to a regulatory filing.  Bond Price  The debt traded at 10:22 a.m. at 99.25 cents on the dollar
to yield 7.77 percent, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  “In the extreme event that a settlement is not reached and
the Compact is terminated, SGC’s ability to operate a class III
gaming facility would be in jeopardy,” Moody’s said.  The Seneca Nation occupies three New York reservations,
including the City of Salamanca, about 60 miles (97 kilometers)
south of Buffalo. More than 7,200 people are members of the
tribe, according to its website.  Seneca Gaming operates two hotels in addition to the
casinos. It employs almost 4,000 people.  -- With assistance from  Brendan A. McGrail  in New York. Editors:
 Sharon L. Lynch ,  Mitchell Martin .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  