-- Options Show No Black Swan in Emerging Markets as Stocks Surge
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-10-12T12:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/options-showing-no-black-swan-in-emerging-market-stocks-as-growth-quickens.html
The smallest stock price  swings  and
fastest economic growth in three years are convincing options
traders that developing-nation equities are safer than ever
relative to U.S. shares.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index’s historic volatility, a
gauge of price swings during the past three months, fell to 12.1
last week, the lowest level since July 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of options insuring against a
drop in the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund has declined to a record versus those tied to the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index, the data show.  While the U.S. recession in 2008 helped spur the MSCI
index’s  worst-ever  bear market, a 66 percent drop, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. says America’s slowing expansion now will force
central banks to keep interest rates  low  and fuel gains in
developing-nation stocks. The gauge rose an average 25 percent
in the 12 months after the last 10 periods volatility sank to
this level,  beating  the S&P 500 every time, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “We’re probably going into a period of relatively low
emerging-market volatility,” said  Christopher Palmer , who
oversees about $6 billion as head of global emerging markets at
Gartmore Investment Management. “The Black Swan way of looking
at the world means that you have to take into account that there
may be some things happening positively that are difficult to
explain.”  Bull Rally  Nassim Nicholas Taleb , in his 2007 best-seller, “The Black
Swan: The Impact of the Highly Improbable,” said most people
underestimate the frequency of rare, high-impact events. He has
built strategies to protect investors from unanticipated market
swings using options, contracts that give the right to buy or
sell assets at a set price by a specific date. The black-swan
theory stems from the ancient misconception that all swans were
white.  The MSCI emerging stock gauge has more than doubled from
its bear-market nadir in October 2008 as the U.S. and Europe cut
benchmark borrowing costs to all-time lows and developing-nation
economic growth quickened to an annual rate of more than 7
percent this year, according to International Monetary Fund
estimates. The index dropped 0.9 percent to 1,098.02 at 8:44
a.m. in New York.  Decoupling Bets  The three-month implied volatility for at-the-money options
on the  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF  was 25.92 on Oct. 8,
compared with 20.65 for the  SPDR S&P 500 ETF , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The difference shrank to 3.72 on Oct. 4,
the lowest since Bloomberg began compiling the data in March
2006. Implied volatility is the key factor in determining
options prices.  “People think there’s going to be a decoupling,” said
 Rebecca Cheong , an equity derivatives strategist at Societe
Generale SA in New York. “There are a lot of people demanding
downside protection in the S&P and there’s less demand for
emerging-markets protection.”  Investors’ growing preference for developing nations is
also reflected in relative  equity valuations  and fund flows. The
MSCI index trades for 2.06 times net assets, within 3 percent of
the highest since March 2008 relative to the S&P 500, which is
valued at 2.15 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Emerging-market equity  mutual funds  lured $53.8 billion of net
inflows this year, while U.S. funds had outflows of $65 billion,
according to EPFR Global and Investment Company Institute data.  Bubble Risk  Rising valuations are leaving developing-nation stocks
vulnerable to a renewed contraction in the U.S. economy, and
investors should consider buying low-priced options that insure
against equity losses, according to TCW Group Inc.’s  Komal Sri- Kumar .  The Federal Reserve’s policy of cutting interest rates to a
record low has had repercussions worldwide, including currency
misalignments and the risk of asset price bubbles, Nobel Prize-
winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said in a Bloomberg Television
interview Oct. 6. Emerging-market policy makers from Brazilian
central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  to Russian Deputy
Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  warned last week that their
markets may be forming bubbles as foreign investment pours into
the nations’ assets.  The MSCI emerging gauge sank as much as 66 percent from its
October 2007 high, nine percentage points more than the S&P
500’s peak-to-trough decline, after the U.S. recession and
spiraling bank losses spurred the worst global financial crisis
since the Great Depression.  Profits  in the 21-country MSCI index
dropped as much as 50 percent from their peak, compared with 47
percent for the S&P 500, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Cheap Insurance  “The risk of a double-dip is still very much present,”
Sri-Kumar, the Los Angeles-based chief global strategist for TCW
Group, which oversees about $110 billion, said in an interview.
“If you can get yourself cheap downside protection, that would
be a better position to take in the short term, rather than be
naked.”  Price swings  increased prior to the end of the MSCI
emerging index’s 2007 rally. The three-month volatility measure
jumped to 27 just before stocks peaked in October 2007, more
than double the level of 12.1 on Oct. 8, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  While the U.S. will probably grow at a 1.5 percent to 2
percent rate through the middle of next year, there’s a chance
the world’s largest economy will fall back into recession,
according to  Jan Hatzius , Goldman Sachs’s New York-based chief
U.S. economist. The Fed, which has already bought $1.7 trillion
of debt to bolster economic growth, may take additional measures
in its next meeting at the start of November, Hatzius said in an
e-mail to clients last week.  Faster Growth  The biggest emerging-market economies will probably expand
more than 8 percent as a group next year, according to forecasts
in September from Goldman Sachs. Earnings in the MSCI emerging
gauge will increase 28 percent in the next 12 months, topping
the 22 percent growth for the S&P 500, analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The slowing U.S. economy “may be one of the better
scenarios” for emerging-market equities because it will ensure
interest rates stay low without sparking another crisis,
according to Goldman Sachs strategists including  Kamakshya Trivedi  in London. The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets ETF will
probably outperform the S&P 500, the strategists said in an Oct.
8 e-mail.  The iShares ETF has climbed 11 percent this year, compared
with a 4.5 percent gain in the S&P 500.  The MSCI All-Country
World Index  of shares in emerging and developed nations has
advanced 4.5 percent.  ‘Silly Valuations’  Developing-nation stocks may continue to climb because some
of the biggest industries were left behind in the rally, said
 Plamen Monovski , the London-based chief investment officer at
Renaissance Asset Managers. The MSCI Emerging Markets Energy
Index is little changed this year.  “To get to a widespread bubble, you need to see silly
valuations across the markets and the sectors,” said Monovski,
who helps oversee about $2 billion. “We haven’t reached
insanity levels. Volatility can stay low for some time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net .
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 