-- HP’s Lane Defends New CEO Apotheker, Faults Hurd in Letter
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-10-12T12:22:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/hp-chairman-lane-backs-apotheker-faults-hurd-in-public-letter.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. chairman-
designate  Ray Lane  described  Leo Apotheker , the company’s newly
appointed chief executive officer, as a “principled leader”
and faulted former CEO  Mark Hurd  in a public  letter .  Lane said in yesterday’s letter, sent to the New York
Times, that Hurd, who ran HP until his exit Aug. 6, demonstrated
a lack of integrity that led to his resignation. Hurd stepped
down after a probe found he violated HP’s business-ethics code.  Hewlett-Packard  shares  have declined 2 percent since
Apotheker’s appointment Sept. 30, a sign of analysts’ concern he
may not be able to generate the growth the company needs to
contend with rivals such as Oracle Corp. and Cisco Systems Inc.
 Jack Welch , former CEO of General Electric Co., has criticized
HP for the way it handled Hurd’s departure.  “In hiring Leo Apotheker, HP’s Board turned to a
principled leader of outstanding personal and professional
integrity,” Lane wrote in the letter, which HP also sent to
Bloomberg News. “Mr. Hurd violated the trust of the board by
repeatedly lying to them in the course of an investigation into
his conduct.”  Lane, a managing partner at venture-capital firm Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers, starts as HP’s non-executive chairman
Nov. 1, the same day that Apotheker assumes his post. Apotheker
resigned as CEO of German software maker SAP AG in February
after the company didn’t extend his contract. He oversaw the
software maker’s first decline in revenue since 2003.  Apotheker’s Tenure  “Given his short tenure as CEO of SAP (and one that
coincided with a difficult macroeconomic environment), his
ability to evolve the strategic direction and deliver top-line
growth as a CEO of a large IT company will need to be proven
over time at HP,” Morgan Stanley analyst  Katy Huberty  wrote in
a Sept. 30 research note.  Hurd resigned as HP’s chairman and CEO following a company
investigation that determined he violated its standards of
business conduct. An investigation of sexual harassment
allegations found inaccurate expense reports filed by Hurd or on
his behalf that concealed a personal relationship with the event
organizer and marketing contractor  Jodie Fisher .  Glenn Bunting , a spokesman for Hurd at Sitrick & Co.,
declined to comment.  Lane’s letter came in response to a  column  published in the
New York Times Oct. 8 that called Hurd’s infractions “minor
expense account shenanigans.” The column also said that
Apotheker was privy to inappropriate downloads of Oracle
software code and documents by former SAP subsidiary TomorrowNow
that are the subject of a 2007 lawsuit between Oracle and SAP.  Witness List Addition  Apotheker has been added to a list of witnesses that Oracle
will likely call in a trial to determine damages in the
TomorrowNow case that starts in Oakland, California, on Nov. 1,
said SAP spokesman Jim Dever. Apotheker had been on an earlier
list of possible witnesses to be called, according to Dever.  Public relations firm Hill & Knowlton, working on Oracle’s
behalf, sent an Oct. 6 e-mail to journalists that questioned
Apotheker’s ethics in light of the downloads of Oracle documents
and code by TomorrowNow workers, which SAP has admitted.  “Oracle is trying to draw Mr. Apotheker into its lawsuit
over TomorrowNow,” Lane said. The unit, shut down while
Apotheker was SAP’s CEO, wasn’t under his direct supervision,
Lane said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  