-- Pandit Recruits Citigroup Army as Costs Erode Bank Margins
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 2010-10-11T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/pandit-recruits-citigroup-army-as-costs-erode-u-s-bank-margins.html
Citigroup Inc.  and U.S. banks that
hunkered down following 2008 bailouts are expanding into new
businesses and markets, bringing higher expenses that may erode
profit margins before they yield shareholder returns.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  is adding
7,500 staff in China over the next three years. He also plans to
recruit 100 commodities traders and double private bankers in
North America to almost 260. The company last month promised $9
million to a Houston-based investment banker to lure him from
 UBS AG , according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Banks are loosening budgets this year as they seek to
compensate for shrinking loan books, caps on credit-card charges
and overdraft fees and a ban on trades with their own money.
With returns yet to come on new investments, the added expenses
are rising faster than revenue.  “Investors would not be big fans of banks bringing down
near-term returns on the promise that they’ll grow revenue in
the future,” said  Thomas Brown , CEO of hedge fund Second Curve
Capital in New York, which oversees about $250 million in  bank
stocks , according to a regulatory filing. “They’d rather see
revenue growth out of the existing franchise.”  First-half operating expenses at the six biggest U.S.
financial firms by assets --  Bank of America Corp. , JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Citigroup, Wells Fargo & Co.,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  and Morgan Stanley -- grew by $7.92 billion, or 5.9
percent. Revenue fell by $5.6 billion, or 2.2 percent.  Third-Quarter Results  The toll of rising operating costs may become clearer over
the next two weeks as the six banks announce third-quarter
results. JPMorgan, based in New York, is scheduled to  report 
tomorrow, with the rest to come next week. A bank’s operating
costs include personnel, as well as office space, equipment,
marketing, advertising, consulting fees, data processing and
telecommunications.  Overall, the six banks are expected to report a combined
profit of $11.8 billion, the average estimate of analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg. That would be an increase of 19 percent
from a year earlier, mainly because of lower loan-loss
provisions, which banks count separately from their operating
expenses. The estimated third-quarter profit would be down 28
percent from the second quarter.  At New York-based Citigroup, which got a $45 billion
bailout in 2008 amid mounting mortgage losses, new spending
should be monitored closely given the company’s track record of
ill-timed investments and inadequate risk management, said  Mike Mayo , an analyst at Credit Agricole Securities USA in New York
who rates Citigroup “underperform.”  Hong Kong Taxis  “The burden is on Citigroup to show that it can invest for
sustainable growth,” said Mayo. “We’ve heard many stories from
Citigroup over the past decade about expansion, whether in
investment banking or Japanese consumer finance or other areas
that failed to pan out.”  On a trip to  Hong Kong  in September, Mayo said, he was
greeted at the airport by three taxis in a row with rooftop
advertisements for Citigroup’s Citibank unit. “I hit the
trifecta,” he said.  Investors analyze companies’  operating leverage  -- the
ability to grow revenue faster than expenses -- to gauge whether
expansion into new businesses translates to higher earnings per
share. Negative operating leverage is when expenses grow faster
than revenue. In the second quarter, one-third of the large and
medium-size banks in the U.S. had positive operating leverage,
compared with half in the prior quarter,  Jason Goldberg , a
Barclays Capital analyst in New York, wrote in an Oct. 8 report.  “We expect operating leverage to remain challenging in the
second half of 2010 amid revenue pressures, in part due to
regulatory changes,” Goldberg wrote.  Overhead Ratio  Citigroup’s overhead ratio -- operating expenses divided by
revenue -- jumped to 54 percent in the second quarter from 45
percent in the first and 40 percent a year earlier. The measure
was 58 percent at JPMorgan in the second quarter, 59 percent at
Bank of America and 60 percent at Wells Fargo.  Pandit, 53, slashed costs last year by cutting jobs and
shedding businesses, including the Smith Barney brokerage, the
Primerica life insurance network and the Nikko Cordial
securities unit in Japan.  The bank had 259,000  employees  as of June 30, down from
371,000 in 2007 just before Pandit took over following the
ouster of  Charles O. “Chuck” Prince , 60. Operating expenses
totaled $47.8 billion last year, a drop of 19 percent from 2007.  Treasury Stake  “They’ve been working very hard at the expense part of the
equation and have gotten that to a pretty good level,” said
 Tanya Azarchs , former head of North American bank research at
Standard & Poor’s and now a consultant in Briarcliff Manor, New
York.  The company last year repaid $20 billion of the bailout
money and converted the remaining $25 billion into common stock.
The Treasury Department has been selling the stock this year,
with an initial stake of 7.7 billion shares whittled to 3.6
billion as of Sept. 30. The remaining stake amounts to about 12
percent of the bank’s outstanding shares.  Citigroup shares have climbed  26 percent  this year, more
than double the 11 percent gain in the  KBW Bank Index , which
tracks 24 of the largest banks’ stocks.  Pandit and his team have cut assets by 28 percent in the
Citi Holdings division, created last year to hold businesses
tagged for exit. In the meantime, he’s ramped up spending in the
Citicorp division, which includes businesses he calls “core”
to the company’s stated mission of being “America’s global
bank.” They include securities trading, investment banking,
branch banking, credit cards and corporate cash management.  ‘Global Footprint’  “We continue to focus on managing  expenses , which includes
investing in our core franchise with a particular emphasis on
opportunities that complement and leverage our global footprint
and unique network,” said  Shannon Bell , a bank spokeswoman.  Many of Citigroup’s new hires are in emerging markets,
where economic growth may be more than three times the pace of
developed markets, Citigroup Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said in February. During a conference call with
investors in July, Pandit said the company had “lots of plans”
for expansion.  “They are in not only Latin America, but we’re doing it in
Hong Kong, and we’re doing it in other parts of Asia,” Pandit
said. “We’ve got a lot of these opportunities, and we’re going
after them very diligently.”  Terra-Cotta Soldiers  Citigroup hired 9 people for stock trading in India in
February, and in March the company announced 13 new hires for
prime brokerage, the business of clearing trades for hedge funds
and lending them securities. Last month, Citigroup said it hired
15 equities traders, salespeople and researchers to expand
coverage of Russia, South Africa and the Middle East.  Stephen Bird , co-CEO of the company’s Asia-Pacific region,
said in August that the bank would increase its China workforce
to 12,000 people from 4,500 over the next three years. The
eventual staff would outnumber the estimated 8,000  terra-cotta
soldiers  buried alongside the country’s first emperor two
millennia ago to guard him in the afterlife.  “We have aggressive consumer-banking expansion plans and
want to open branches as fast as regulators in China will let
us,” Bird said.  Citigroup’s overall first-half operating costs fell 1.3
percent from a year earlier to $23.4 billion, while revenue
dropped 13 percent, mostly from the wind-down of Citi Holdings.
In the  Citicorp division , costs rose by 14 percent, as revenue
declined by 3.6 percent.  JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley  JPMorgan’s operating costs  rose 14 percent  in the first
half, outpacing a 4 percent increase in revenue. The bank is
trying to double the size of its investment bank in Asia and has
expanded its commodities-trading unit this year.  Costs at Charlotte, North-Carolina-based Bank of America
increased by 3 percent, as revenue fell by 11 percent.  Wells
Fargo , based in San Francisco, had a 1.4 percent increase in
expenses compared with a 1.6 percent drop in revenue. While
expenses at New York-based Goldman Sachs fell by 3.3 percent,
revenue dropped by 6.8 percent.  Morgan Stanley  was alone among the six banks in posting
first-half revenue growth that outpaced costs. Revenue more than
doubled from a year earlier as trading results improved.
Operating costs climbed 38 percent, in part because the New
York-based firm set aside more money for year-end bonuses.  Spokesmen for the other five banks declined to comment.  Credit Costs  It’s not just the costs of developing new businesses that
are hitting the bottom line, said  Peter Kovalski , a portfolio
manager at  Alpine Woods Capital Investors LLC  in Purchase, New
York, which oversees about $6 billion, including investments on
Bank of America, JPMorgan, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs. Banks
are still paying to clean up after the credit crisis, he said.  “There are a lot of legal fees and appraisal fees, which
naturally come up as you work through problems,” Kovalski said.  Goldman Sachs in July agreed to pay $550 million to settle
a Securities and Exchange Commission fraud suit related to a
mortgage-linked investment that later soured. Citigroup paid $75
million to settle claims it failed to adequately disclose
subprime-mortgage holdings as the housing market deteriorated in
2007. Bank of America and JPMorgan have assigned staff to
contest claims by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that they should
buy back defective mortgages sold under warranty.  JPMorgan’s first-half  compensation  costs climbed 3 percent
to $14.9 billion, marketing costs jumped 51 percent to $1.21
billion and other expenses more than doubled to $6.86 billion.
At Bank of America, personnel costs were up 8.4 percent to $17.9
billion, and professional fees increased 22 percent to $1.16
billion.  “Assurance of Money”  Bank of America last month drew up plans to fire as many as
400 employees in its global banking and markets division because
of a decline in revenue from trading and advising clients.
Citigroup isn’t planning similar headcount reductions, a person
briefed on the matter said last week.  Stephen Trauber , 48, the energy investment banker who in
September was hired by Citigroup from Zurich-based UBS, said at
the time that he brought his team, which included four other
senior bankers and some junior bankers, because of the
“assurance of money.”  While the “traditional relationship management” done by
bankers such as Trauber isn’t as risky as the trading businesses
that led to Citigroup’s bailout, “hiring a group is like buying
a small company,” said  Richard Lipstein , a managing director at
headhunter Boyden Global Executive Search in New York. “It’s a
bet that’s being made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 