-- Pemex's Exit From `Drill, Baby, Drill' May Hurt Cicsa, Tenaris
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2010-10-11T21:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/pemex-s-exit-from-drill-baby-drill-may-hurt-cicsa-tenaris.html
Petroleos Mexicanos’s plans to scale
back drilling by 60 percent next year at its $11 billion
Chicontepec oil field will hurt Mexican oil services providers
as they lose contracts to companies such as Halliburton Co. and
Schlumberger Ltd., analysts said.  Pemex, as Latin America’s biggest oil producer is known, is
shifting its strategy on Chicontepec and earmarking the majority
of the field’s 2011 budget of 21 billion pesos ($1.7 billion)
for research after output missed forecasts, Chief Executive
Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  said Oct. 1 in an interview.  The move may squeeze out local contractors lacking
technological experience such as billionaire  Carlos Slim’s   Carso
Infraestructura & Construccion SAB , known as Cicsa, and  Empresas
ICA SAB , Mexico’s largest construction company, in favor of
Halliburton and Schlumberger, said  Carlos Hermosillo , an analyst
at Mexico City-based brokerage Vector Casa de Bolsa SA.  Chicontepec’s domestic contractors “don’t have a great
deal of technological innovation that they can offer Pemex,”
Hermosillo said Oct. 4 in a telephone interview. “They’re more
about executing whatever Pemex orders.”  Executives of Cicsa, based in Mexico City, declined to
comment, according to Slim’s press office. Spokeswomen for ICA,
Schlumberger and Halliburton didn’t respond to messages seeking
comment.  Slashing Drilling  Pemex said Sept. 29 it will cut drilling next year at
Chicontepec to 499 wells from 1,250. The company, based in
Mexico City, is seeking ways to improve production after the
field missed output targets in the past three years.  The strategy “had to be re-gauged to focus on field
labs,” Suarez Coppel said. “If we had more budget flexibility,
we would have higher drilling activity for next year.”  Pemex hired  Schlumberger ,  Halliburton , Tecpetrol SA,  Baker
Hughes Inc.  and  Weatherford International Ltd.  to run five field
research labs to determine the most productive techniques before
expanding drilling at Chicontepec. Pemex doesn’t plan to hire
more contractors for additional field research, Suarez Coppel
said.  “I don’t see Pemex returning anytime soon to the ‘drill,
baby, drill’ strategy at Chicontepec,”  Jeremy Martin , an oil
specialist at the Institute of the Americas in La Jolla,
California, said Oct. 4 in a telephone interview.  Cicsa, Ica  Before today, Cicsa and Ica dropped 11 percent and 1.9
percent, respectively, in the past six months, while Mexico’s
benchmark index has gained 2.7 percent. Halliburton rose 9.7
percent in the same period.  Ica gained 41 centavos, or 1.3 percent, to 31.81 pesos in
Mexico City trading at 4:01 p.m. local time. Cicsa fell 5
centavos to 7.7. Halliburton fell 0.5 percent to $34.56 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Schlumberger and Halliburton, both based in Houston, are
the world’s biggest and second-largest oilfield-services
companies, respectively.  Chicontepec, also known as the Tertiary Gulf Oil Project,
is a field with small pockets of oil and low pressure spread
across the states of Puebla, Hidalgo and Veracruz near the Gulf
of Mexico.  Production Shortfall  Three years ago, Pemex forecast output of 660,000 barrels a
day by 2015 for the project in central and eastern Mexico. Two
weeks ago, Suarez Coppel said 2015 production is expected to be
150,000 barrels. Chicontepec produced 29,637 barrels of oil a
day in December, below an original target of 100,000 barrels.  The project’s “budget continues to be very large,” said
 John Padilla , managing director of IPD Latin America, an energy
consulting firm. Most of the budget will go into “investigative
efforts,” he said in a phone interview Oct. 1.  “Those are probably the most expensive barrels that have
ever been produced in Mexican history,” said  George Baker , a
Houston-based energy consultant.  Weatherford, which operates Chicontepec’s Presidente Aleman
field lab, sees Mexico as one of its revenue drivers for the
coming 18 months, Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Duroc-Danner 
told investors Sept. 15 at a conference in New York.  ‘Domino Effect’  The strategy shift will also affect oil equipment suppliers
such as  Tenaris SA , the world’s largest maker of steel pipes for
the oil and gas industry, said  Baker  in a phone interview.  Reduced drilling “will create a domino effect that will
impact companies ranging from big suppliers to tortilla shops,”
Baker, who publishes the Mexico Energy Intelligence newsletter,
said in an interview from Houston.  Tenaris has fallen 7.2 percent in the past six months.
Today, the company controlled by  Paolo Rocca , fell 12 cents to
$41.05 at 5:15 p.m. in New York.  Gerardo Cardenas, a spokesman for Tenaris, said the company
didn’t immediately have a comment about Chicontepec’s 2011 oil
pipeline demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos M. Rodriguez  in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  