-- Diamond, Mortensen, Pissarides Share 2010 Nobel Economic Prize
-- B y   T o b y   A l d e r   a n d   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2010-10-11T11:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/peter-diamond-mortensen-pissarides-share-2010-nobel-prize-for-economics.html
Peter Diamond ,  Dale Mortensen  and
 Christopher Pissarides  shared the 2010 Nobel Prize in Economic
Sciences for their work on the efficiency of recruitment and
wage formation as well as labor-market regulation.  The laureates “have formulated a theoretical framework for
search markets,” the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said in
a statement today. “Peter Diamond has analyzed the foundations
of search markets. Dale Mortensen and Christopher Pissarides
have expanded the theory and have applied it to the labor market.
The laureates’ models help us understand the ways in which
unemployment, job vacancies, and wages are affected by
regulation and economic policy.”  Annual prizes for achievements in physics, chemistry,
medicine, peace and literature were established in the will of
 Alfred Nobel , the Swedish inventor of dynamite who died in 1896,
and the first prizes were handed out in 1901. The prize in
economics was set up by Sweden’s central bank in 1968. Past
winners since 1969 include  Milton Friedman ,  Amartya Sen ,  James Tobin ,  Paul Krugman ,  Robert Solow  and  Gunnar Myrdal .  Pissarides, 62 -- an economics professor at the London
School of Economics -- made his reputation through his work on
job flows and unemployment. He related job creation to the
number of unemployed, the number of vacancies and the intensity
with which workers look for jobs and companies recruit
applicants. The more eagerly job seekers look for work, the more
jobs companies are likely to offer because it will be easier to
fill them, according to Pissarides.  Job Search  Mortensen, 71 -- a professor at Northwestern University --
pioneered the study of how workers search for jobs. He found
that labor-market rigidities can cause unemployment as job-
seekers look for the best work at the highest pay. The intensity
of that job search determines how long workers stay unemployed
and in turn can be affected by changes in the level and duration
of jobless benefits.  Diamond, 70 -- an economics professor at the Massachusetts
Institute</a> of Technology -- has researched a wide range of
subjects. His earliest work, published in the 1960s, focused on
the long-term impact of the growing national debt on the economy.  In a paper written in 2005 with  Peter Orszag , who stepped
down as President  Barack Obama ’s budget director in July,
Diamond argued that Social Security’s long-term financial health
could be restored through modest cuts in benefits and tax
increases.  President  Barack Obama  chose Diamond for a post on the
Federal Reserve Board in April, subject to confirmation by the
Senate. The nomination was later returned to the White House
because of objections from at least one unidentified senator.
Obama resubmitted Diamond’s name on Sept. 13.  Answer Questions  The award’s official name is The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in
Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel. The money, 10
million kronor ($1.5 million), a gold medal and a diploma, will
be handed out to the laureate at a Stockholm ceremony on Dec.10,
the anniversary of Nobel’s death.  “Why are so many people unemployed at the same time that
there are a large number of job openings?” the Academy Sciences
wrote in the statement today. “This year’s laureates have
developed a theory which can be used to answer these questions.
This theory is also applicable to markets other than the labor
market.”  The 2009 economics prize was awarded to  Elinor Ostrom , the
first woman to win, and  Oliver Williamson  for research into the
limits of markets and how organizations work. Krugman won the
prize in 2008 “for his analysis of trade patterns and location
of economic activity,” the academy said at the time.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Toby Alder at 
 talder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this sto
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  