-- Petrobras Bondholders Gain as Shareholders Lose: Brazil Credit
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-10-11T21:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/petrobras-bondholders-gain-as-shareholders-lose-brazil-credit.html
Bonds issued by Petroleo Brasileiro
SA are outperforming Brazilian corporate and government
securities on speculation last month’s record $70 billion stock
offering will allow the company to limit its debt sales.  The state-run oil producer’s dollar bonds due in 2019
returned 2.9 percent since the Sept. 23 share sale, topping the
2.1 percent gain on Brazilian corporate  notes  and 2.5 percent
advance in  government  securities, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and JPMorgan Chase & Co. While the debt has rallied,
the  stock  sank 3 percent, lagging the 2.9 percent gain in the
 Bovespa  index, as the sale swelled the supply of the shares.  The stock offering will help fund a five-year, $224 billion
investment plan that is the industry’s largest, reducing the
need to issue debt, according to  Nick Robinson , who helps manage
$26 billion in emerging-market shares at Aberdeen Asset
Management Inc. in Sao Paulo. Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-
based company is known, raised $27.5 billion in cash from the
sale after paying the government $42.5 billion for the right to
tap oil reserves.  “For the individual stock, there’s still overhang from the
sale,” said  Fabio Spinola , who helps oversee $1 billion,
including Petrobras shares, as equity strategist at Sao Paulo-
based hedge fund Quest Investimentos Ltda. “For credit, it
certainly is better than before the offering. The share sale
helps a lot.”  Record Sales  Petrobras, Latin America’s biggest energy company by market
value, plans to raise $60 billion in bonds and loans over the
next five years to finance an investment program that seeks to
double oil production, Chief Executive Officer  Jose Sergio Gabrielli  said Oct. 7.  “No oil company in the world would let this opportunity
pass by,” Gabrielli told reporters in Rio de Janeiro.  The company didn’t provide a breakdown of how much would
come from bonds and how much from loans.  Petrobras hasn’t issued any bonds this year after selling
$6.75 billion in international markets in 2009, more than the
$5.55 billion it raised over the previous 10 years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s $2.75 billion of bonds due in 2019, which
were issued as part of last year’s record sales, have gained 3.2
cents on the dollar since the share offering to 125.7. They
touched a record 125.8 cents on Oct. 6.  Pemex Bonds  The yield declined 41 basis points, or 0.41 percentage
point, over that time to 4.22 percent, leaving it 89 basis
points above Brazilian government debt due in 2019. The gap has
dropped from a one-month high of 104 basis points on Sept. 17.
The yield on similar-maturity bonds issued by Mexico’s state-
controlled oil company Petroleos Mexicanos fell 34 basis points
since Sept. 23 to 4.5 percent.  The rally in Petrobras bonds is a reversal of their
underperformance in the run-up to the share offering. The notes
due in 2019 returned 11 percent from the end of last year
through Sept. 22, compared with 11.9 percent on Brazilian
corporate securities and 13 percent on government debt.  Standard & Poor’s rates Petrobras  BBB- , the lowest
investment-grade ranking and in line with Brazil’s government.
Fitch Ratings Ltd. grades Petrobras one level higher than the
government at BBB while Moody’s Investors Service rates the oil
producer two levels higher at Baa1.  ‘Serial Issuer’  Milena Zaniboni , an S&P analyst in Sao Paulo, said in an e-
mailed response to questions that the five-year debt program was
in line with its expectations when it affirmed Petrobras’s
ranking the day of the share sale. Ana Ares, a Buenos Aires-
based analyst at Fitch, said on Oct. 8 that the company’s
investment plan may put its rating “toward the weaker end” of
the category, echoing comments that her colleague  Daniel Kastholm  made in a Sept. 28 interview.  The investment program “is aggressive and we know they
need funding for that,” Ares said in a telephone interview.
“It will be leveraging for the company.”  Jack Deino , who oversees about $1.6 billion of emerging-
market debt at Invesco Inc., said the outperformance in
Petrobras bonds will likely fade.  “I don’t think the market is pricing in the reality that
Petrobras is probably going to become a serial issuer,” Deino
said in a telephone interview from New York.  Petrobras said in an e-mailed statement that it doesn’t
comment on market movements.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell six
basis points last week to 197, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+
index. The spread on emerging-market government dollar debt fell
three basis points to 271 as record-low yields on two-year
Treasuries boosted demand for higher-yielding securities.  Default Swaps  The real fell 0.2 percent to 1.6699 per dollar at 5:10 p.m.
New York time. The yield on the overnight interest-rate futures
contract due in January 2012 fell two basis points to 11.41
percent.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years was unchanged at 99, according to CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Swaps on Petrobras bonds fell four basis points last week
to 151, extending their decline to 11 since the share sale. The
contracts fell to 150 basis points today.  “If you have more equity, it helps to prevent a
downgrade,” said  Diego Torres , head of emerging-market credit
research at Munita, Cruzat y Claro, a Santiago-based financial
services company. “The rating companies aren’t considering it
but the market was because of the aggressive investment plan. As
a bondholder, you come out in a better position in the capital
structure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 espinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  