-- Petters Trustee Sues JPMorgan Chase, Ritchie Capital
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2010-10-11T16:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/petters-trustee-sues-jpmorgan-ritchie-entities-to-recover-261-million.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Ritchie
Capital Management LLC were sued by the U.S. bankruptcy trustee
for companies run by convicted Ponzi schemer  Thomas Petters  in
an effort to recover more than $261 million.  The trustee, Douglas Kelley, filed the complaints yesterday
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Minneapolis, where he has brought
more than 200 lawsuits seeking to recover billions of dollars
for creditors.  Petters last year was sentenced to 50 years in prison after
being found guilty of running a $3.5 billion fraud. Petters
conned investors into giving him money to finance phony
consumer-goods purchase contracts. His Minnetonka, Minnesota-
based businesses also owned Sun Country Airlines Inc. and
Polaroid Corp.  Kelley alleged that New York-based JPMorgan, a shareholder
in Polaroid before Petters acquired it, received more than $241
million of Petters’s ill-gotten gains. Kelley also seeks to
recover more than $12 million from former Polaroid Holding Co.
Chairman  Jacques Nasser .  Thomas Kelly , a spokesman for JPMorgan, said the bank was
unaware of the case and he couldn’t comment on it. A spokesman
for Nasser, the chairman of mining company BHP Billiton Ltd.,
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  In a separate lawsuit, Kelley alleged that Wheaton,
Illinois-based Ritchie Capital and six affiliates, which were
among Petters’s investors, should pay back more than $21 million
in fraudulent transfers.  Justin Meise , a spokesman for Ritchie Capital, said he
couldn’t immediately comment on the complaint.  The cases are In re Petters Co., 08-45257; Kelley v.
JPMorgan Chase & Co., 10-04443; and Kelley v. Ritchie Capital
Management LLC, 10-04440, U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District
of Minnesota (Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Beth Hawkins  in St. Paul, Minnesota, at 
 hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 