-- Pound Declines Against Dollar, Euro as Osborne Stokes BOE Easing Concern
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-11T16:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/pound-falls-versus-euro-ahead-of-data-expected-to-show-inflation-at-3-1-.html
The pound weakened against the
dollar and euro as investors speculated the Bank of England will
restart its debt-purchase program to bolster the economic
recovery.  The pound depreciated against 14 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts after Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
said two days ago he would support monetary stimulus, known as
quantitative easing, should the BOE deem it necessary. A report
tomorrow may show inflation stayed above the government’s 3
percent upper limit for the seventh consecutive month.  “The speculation around quantitative easing is the main
burden for sterling at the moment and the reason why euro-
sterling has traded upwards from the 82- to the 88-pence
level,” said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of currency strategy in
Frankfurt at Commerzbank AG. “Sterling will remain weak until
there is more BOE clarification. Some mild form of QE would not
be as bad for the pound as the extreme speculation running
around the market at the moment.”  The pound fell 0.4 percent to $1.5893 as of 5:08 p.m. in
London. It depreciated 0.1 percent to 87.36 pence per euro from
87.30 pence on Oct. 8.  The central bank left interest rates at a record low and
refrained from increasing its 200 billion-pound ($319 billion)
bond-buying program to stimulate the economy on Oct. 7. Osborne
told reporters in Washington he would “basically follow those
judgments” of the BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee and approve
any expansion of stimulus they may advise. Britain’s economy is
set to endure the deepest public-spending cuts since World War
II, the details of which will be announced on Oct. 20.  BOE Split  U.K. government bonds were little changed, with the yield
on the 10-year gilt at 2.88 percent. The two-year yield was at
0.63 percent.  The median estimate of 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News is that consumer prices increased 3.1 percent last month.
The Office for National Statistics will publish the data at 9:30
a.m. in London tomorrow.  The data may exacerbate a split on the Bank of England’s
MPC, where  Andrew Sentance  has argued for interest-rate
increases to tame prices, while others, such as  Adam Posen , say
more stimulus may be needed.  “CPI has been stubbornly high at more than 3 percent and
eventually the BOE may be swayed by Sentance’s view that we need
to start hiking rates,” said  Elizabeth Gregory , a market
strategist at ACM Advanced Currency Markets in Geneva. “There
should be very little chance of more easing as you would have to
be mad to inject more liquidity into a system when you’ve been
unable to rein inflation back down from 3 percent-plus for the
entirety of 2010.”  The pound dropped 4.8 percent this year against a basket of
its developed-country peers, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  