-- Prokhorov Flies Nets to Moscow for Pep Talk on Global Ambitions
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2010-10-11T13:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/prokhorov-flies-new-jersey-nets-to-moscow-for-pep-talk-on-global-ambitions.html
Mikhail Prokhorov  met with his New
Jersey Nets for the first time on his old home basketball court
in Moscow, where the players got a taste of life under the NBA’s
first non-American owner.  The billionaire introduced himself to the National
Basketball Association team yesterday at his former club CSKA
Moscow, the Russian champions and 2008 Euro League winners.
Prokhorov pledged to turn the Nets, who had the NBA’s worst
record last season, into champions within five years and make
them the first basketball club with a global fan base.  “The support he’s shown us thus far, especially after the
way we performed last season, and the confidence he has in us”
has buoyed the mood at the club, Nets center  Brook Lopez  said in
an interview after the meeting. “He can help us spread the game
globally. And he’ll be happy with the product we put on the
floor this season.”  Prokhorov, 45, is betting on the NBA’s drive to reach
audiences outside North America and on his countrymen’s support
for the Nets to help him create a global franchise that one day
may sell shares to the public. Basketball may also help carve
out more business opportunities in the U.S. as Prokhorov seeks
to expand in high technology and build Russia’s first electric
car.  The Nets represent a “crossroads of two passions,” sport
and business, Prokhorov said in December after he paid U.S.
entrepreneur  Bruce Ratner  $200 million for 80 percent of the NBA
club and 45 percent of their planned Barclays Center arena in
Brooklyn.  Forbes magazine this year ranked Prokhorov as Russia’s
second-richest man, with a $13.4 billion fortune. The 6-foot-7
owner of gold mines, banks and media, helped bankroll CSKA until
he sold his stake in Russia’s biggest miner OAO GMK Norilsk
Nickel in 2008.  New Coach, New Players  Nets point guard  Devin Harris  said he wants to learn more
about the owner and how he earned his fortune early on in life,
Harris said.  “It’s not just that he’s Russian,” Harris said in an
interview. “He’s proven to be the best in pretty much anything
that he’s touched and he has a feel for the game. Those things
are recipes for success.”  Since buying the Nets, Prokhorov has hired  Avery Johnson  as
coach and revamped its 16-man roster with 12 new players. He
couldn’t lure NBA Most Valuable Player  LeBron James , who joined
the Miami Heat as a free agent. A four-way trade that would have
landed All-Star  Carmelo Anthony  from the Denver Nuggets was
called off.  “The Nets will be much better this season than last,” TNT
basketball analyst David Aldridge said in an e-mail. “No one
thought they had a realistic chance of getting LeBron, but
Prokhorov likes to make a splash.”  The Nets’ pre-season tally of three wins and one loss,
after last season’s 12-70 record, isn’t enough to judge the
team’s potential, Aldridge said. Still, the club can challenge
for the championship in a five-year timeframe should Prokhorov
commits resources to lure top players, he said.  Success on the Nets balance sheet will show from 2012, when
the team moves from its suburban New Jersey home to the Barclays
Center in Brooklyn, Prokhorov told reporters yesterday before
meeting the players.  Brooklyn Hub  The planned arena in the heart of Brooklyn is less than 10
miles from Brighton Beach, known as “Little Odessa” for its
high concentration of Russian immigrants. The center is next to
a public transportation hub and could help the Nets set up a
rivalry with the Knicks, currently the NBA’s only New York-based
team.  Barclays Plc signed a 20-year, $400 million naming-rights
agreement for the arena, which is part of the $4.9 billion
Atlantic Yards Project residential and commercial property
development started by Ratner. Prokhorov has an option to buy a
stake in Atlantic Yards.  “Brooklyn was the heart of U.S. immigration,” Prokhorov
said. “A lot of people from other countries passed through
Brooklyn. They have a lot of relatives in China, in Africa, in
Russia, in Europe.”  So far, the Nets’ international appeal is likely to be
limited to Russia, said  Brett Yormark , head of Brooklyn Sports &
Entertainment, the sales and marketing arm of the Barclays
Center. Yormark said he’s in talks with several Russian and U.S.
companies to sponsor the Nets. Among those are mobile-telephone
companies seeking greater visibility in New York, he said.  Global Outlook  “The first step in globalizing our team is in Russia
because of the direct connection to ownership,” Yormark said in
an interview. “As this team becomes more visible, more high-
profile, we can expand into other markets.”  Last week, Stolichnaya vodka, owned by the Moscow-based SPI
Group, signed a five-year accord to sponsor the Barclays Center
that will give it exclusive branding at the facility and in the
arena’s six bars. The deal is worth more than $2 million a year.  Prokhorov is also in talks with the NBA to allow the Nets
to play some games in Moscow. As part of the marketing drive in
Russia, Nets players including Lopez yesterday opened  Adidas
AG ’s first basketball-focused store in Moscow. The store has a
subsection devoted to Nets merchandise, compared with three
racks for the other NBA teams.  Officials at Event  “Russia has its own team, it’s the New Jersey Nets,”
Prokhorov said, dismissing that his home country can set up a
rival basketball league within the next 20 years. “I hope and
I’m sure Russians will support the Nets, watch games, visit
matches in the U.S. and also buy t-shirts.”  The presence of the Nets in Moscow is already a “major”
boost for the sport, said Deputy Prime Minister  Sergei Ivanov ,
who attended the player meeting and clinic. The event was also
broadcast on Russian state television.  “If New Jersey Nets are advertised as well as the London
soccer club Chelsea in Russia, it will ultimately be” a popular
team with the Russians, Ivanov said, referring to billionaire
 Roman Abramovich ’s purchase of Chelsea in 2004.  Prokhorov’s approach to business and marketing drive could
help the Nets players as much off-court and in their game, said
Nets guard Harris.  “We’re all trying to put together our own private entities
as well as put together a global icon,” Harris said. “And I’m
just curious about how his mind works.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yuriy Humber  in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  