-- Quaden Sees no Reason to Change ECB Rates as Europe Growth Slows
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-10-11T07:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/quaden-sees-no-reason-for-ecb-to-change-benchmark-rate-as-economy-weakens.html
The European Central Bank can afford
to keep interest rates at a record low because economic growth
in the 16-nation euro region is set to slow and inflation
remains under control, council member  Guy Quaden  said.  “Domestic price pressures remain contained and
inflationary expectations well anchored,” Quaden said in an
interview during the Oct. 8-10 annual meeting of the
International Monetary Fund in Washington. “There is no reason
to modify our stance of monetary policy.”  Quaden’s comments contrast with remarks made by ECB
Executive Board member  Juergen Stark  who signaled concern about
low borrowing costs undermining price stability. The ECB has
kept its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent
for more than a year to bolster growth and decided last month to
extend unlimited liquidity support to banks into 2011.  The euro-region economy is growing at a slower pace in the
current half and into 2011 compared with “exceptionally
strong” growth in the second quarter, Quaden said. While
prospects for the euro region “aren’t bad,” there are risks
from a “slowdown in other parts of the world,” he said.  U.S.  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has signaled
he may announce the purchase of more U.S. Treasuries in an
effort to boost economic growth as unemployment grows.  Global Cooperation  A “double-dip” in the U.S. economy is “not the most
probable scenario,” Quaden, who represents Belgium on the ECB’s
council, said in the interview. A double-dip will “surely” not
happen in the euro area, he said.  The world’s major central banks should cooperate more
closely after they protected the world from sliding from a
“great recession” into a “great depression,” a repeat of the
1930s when governments resorted to hostile trade and currency
policies to support their economies, he said.  Brazil has stepped up intervention in the currency market
in a bid to keep the real from rising as the world wages what
the country’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  called a “currency
war.” Japan last month intervened in the foreign-exchange
market for the first time since 2004 to stop a surge in the yen.  Quaden said that currencies “have to float” and there’s a
need for “some flexibility.”  “But excessive volatility has to be avoided, in particular
brutal moves,” he said. “When I hear the word currency war,
there are clearly some risks, but I cannot imagine that the
different governments and authorities could have forgotten the
dramatic lessons of the 1930s.”  China’s Currency  ECB Executive Board member  Lorenzo Bini Smaghi  told
Bloomberg Television he’s confident that Chinese authorities
will stick to their commitment to let the renminbi appreciate.
Countries not playing by the rules of a flexible exchange-rate
system need to be brought into a “cooperative framework” in
which they participate in a floating system, he said.  The exchange rate of the euro “is one of the variables
like the others we take into account” when setting monetary
policy, Bini Smaghi said in Washington. Banks’ reduced liquidity
needs signal “the economy is slowly improving and financial
markets are improving and functioning,” he said.  “We’re working on the basis of a gradual recovery, which
may be bumpy,” Bini Smaghi said. “But of course there are
risks. The financial system is still fragile, so we’re working
to strengthen it, to make it more resilient.”  The ECB forecasts the economy of the 16-nation currency
region will grow around 1.6 percent this year and 1.4 percent in
2011. Inflation is predicted to average 1.6 percent this year
and 1.7 percent next year, below the bank’s 2 percent limit.  ‘Positive Surprise’  ECB governing council member  Yves Mersch  said euro-region
economic data for the third quarter point to “a positive
surprise” in growth, the Financial Times Deutschland newspaper
reported, citing an interview.  The euro-zone economy may have expanded 0.4 percent to 0.6
percent in the three months ended September, Mersch said, adding
the ECB will continue its exit from a “very accommodating”
monetary policy even if the Fed eases its stance further.  The ECB is “fully aware” that keeping interest rates low
for too long could threaten price stability, Stark told Emerging
Markets magazine. The bank’s main lending rate and liquidity
provisioning “will be adjusted timely and appropriately.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Washington at  jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Washington at  rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  