-- Three Stocks to Sell Now, Three Bargains to Buy: John Dorfman
-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 2010-10-11T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/three-stocks-to-ax-now-three-bargains-to-buy-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html
It’s time to unload some of this
year’s hottest U.S. stocks. There are still good buys, though,
among less glamorous equities.  Here are three stocks that in my opinion should be sold
before year-end or as soon as you have held them for 12 months
so you can get long-term capital gains tax treatment. I will
also suggest three stocks to buy.  Foremost among my sell recommendations is  Las Vegas Sands
Corp. , which operates casino-hotels and convention centers in
the U.S., Singapore and Macau, China. Its stock has jumped 150
percent this year.  In 2009 almost three-quarters of Las Vegas Sands’ revenue
came from Macau.  Revenue  growth there has been much faster than
in the company’s home city of Las Vegas.  Macau is a small peninsula jutting off the eastern coast of
China; it enjoys considerable political autonomy.  I believe Macau is an excellent gambling locale, drawing
guests as it does from mainland China, where gambling is both
popular and largely forbidden. But trees don’t grow to the sky,
in China or anywhere else.  It its latest quarter, ended June 30, the company made $1.6
billion in revenue and $42 million in  earnings . By my reckoning,
the company is worth at least $2.5 billion (15 times annualized
earnings) and at most $26 billion (four times annualized
revenue).  Leaving Las Vegas  The actual value the stock market places on Las Vegas Sands
is almost $25 billion, close to the top of my range.  The stock price of about $37 a share is 932.5 times the
past four quarters’ reported earnings, and about 20 times
analysts’ estimates for 2013 -- a date that in terms of
predictability might as well be Star Date 2733.  My opinion of Las Vegas Sands isn’t shared by most  analysts 
covering the company. Sixteen of 25 firms rating the company
call it a “buy.”  Also way overextended in my view is New York-based  Sirius
XM Radio Inc.  I do not like the company’s capital structure,
with almost $17 in  debt  for every dollar in equity.  Sirius stock is up 115 percent this year and sells for 129
times recent earnings. You might surmise that earnings must be
terrific. Yet Sirius has posted losses every year since it went
public in 1994. Analysts expect it to break into the black this
year and earn a  profit  -- of less than a penny a share.  Vulnerability Concerns  Next consider  OpenTable Inc. , which pioneered a system by
which diners can make restaurant reservations online at no
charge. The company gets its revenue from participating
eateries. My concern is that this is a business with low
barriers to entry.  You’d never think so to look at the  stock  price. San
Francisco-based OpenTable has surged 146 percent this year and
fetches 160 times recent earnings. Sales and earnings are
growing very fast, but the company is just a baby -- it was
founded in 1998 and went public in 2009 -- with revenue of $69
million last year.  Now let’s turn to some stocks I think a rational investor
might buy.  All three of these stocks passed my Old Faithful screen,
which requires average annual earnings growth the past five
years of 15 percent, a return on equity of 15 percent or more, a
price-to-earnings ratio of less than 15, debt less than 50
percent of equity, and a price-to-sales ratio below 2. Fewer
than 30 U.S. stocks pass that screen at the moment.  Uninterrupted Profits  I’m impressed with  Ross Stores Inc. , which is located in
Pleasanton, California, and operates a nationwide chain of off-
price clothing stores.  During the recession, Ross’s earnings rose. It has reported
annual profits every year since 1988. It earned a 41 percent
return on stockholders’ equity in the fiscal year that ended in
January. The stock is up 31 percent this year but still sells
for a moderate multiple, 13 times earnings.  I like  World Fuel Services Corp.  The Miami-based company
offers fuel, maps, flight plans and other services to operators
of planes and boats. It does business throughout the world but
gets most of its revenue in the U.S., Singapore and the U.K.  With barely a speck of debt on its balance sheet, World
Fuel Services earned a 17 percent return on equity last year.
Its earnings have risen every year since 2000 and are expected
to advance 16 percent this year to $2.27 a share. The stock is
little changed this year and sells for 12 times earnings.  No Glamour  One more unglamorous stock I like is  National Presto
Industries Inc. , based in Eau Claire, Wisconsin. Many people
know it for its small household appliances, including pressure
cookers. Yet the company actually gets most of its revenue from
defense products such as ammunition and cartridge cases.  National Presto stock has risen 8 percent this year and
sells for 12 times earnings. No Wall Street analysts follow it.  Prosaic these companies may be. Nevertheless I think all
three of them are much better bets than the high flyers such as
Las Vegas Sands, Sirius XM Radio and OpenTable.  Disclosure note: I have no long or short positions in the
stocks discussed in this column.  ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  