-- Reliance Communications May Borrow, Sell Bonds to Reduce $1.9 Billion Debt
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-10-11T12:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/reliance-communications-may-borrow-sell-bonds-to-reduce-1-9-billion-debt.html
Reliance Communications Ltd. ,
India’s second-largest mobile phone operator, may sell bonds or
borrow from banks overseas to repay about 86 billion rupees
($1.9 billion) of debt, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the plan.  Reliance Communications , based in Mumbai, approached banks
seeking dollar-denominated funding that it calculates would be
as much as 4 percentage points cheaper than similar financing in
rupees, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the matter is confidential.  The company “continuously evaluates  debt  refinancing
opportunities to reduce interest costs and optimize
maturities,” it said in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg News today, without being more specific.  Billionaire Chairman  Anil Ambani  aims to tap record
overseas demand for Indian assets as the fastest growth among
Asia’s major economies after China lures investors. Reliance
failed to sell phone towers to GTL Infrastructure Ltd. last
month, in a deal which may have helped it pare about 180 billion
rupees of debt, and has yet to find a buyer for a 26 percent
stake four months after receiving board approval.  “We’re waiting to see if the company can do all those
things that Mr. Ambani has mentioned -- raise equity, increase
profitability, reduce debt and convert short term debt to long
term,” said  Vikas Aggarwal , an analyst at ICRA Ltd., an
affiliate of Moody’s Investors Service in New Delhi. ICRA last
week assigned a “negative outlook” on its LAA+ rating, or
second highest ranking, on Reliance’s long-term debt.  Worst-Performing Stock  Reliance  is the  worst-performing stock  in the past 12
months on the 89-company Bloomberg World Telecommunications
Index, having declined 26 percent in the period. The index has
advanced 7 percent in the past year.  Net debt at the carrier more than tripled to about 310
billion rupees at the end of September, from 99.7 billion rupees
as on March 31, 2008, according to ICRA, after Reliance paid
85.9 billion rupees as license fees for high-speed wireless
spectrum at a government auction in May.  Ambani aims to make his flagship company debt free in three
years, he told shareholders last month, adding Reliance will cut
investment in capacity expansion as part of the plan. The
carrier plans to spend 30 billion rupees on network expansion in
the 12 months ending in March after investing a combined 350
billion rupees in the past three years, he said.  “We’re watching to see if all those things happen in the
next five to six months, if the company goes in this direction,
or if it doesn’t,” ICRA’s Aggarwal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 