-- Frontier May Seek Marketing Deal With Major Airline
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-10-11T20:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/republic-s-frontier-may-seek-marketing-deal-with-major-airline.html
Frontier Airlines, a unit of
 Republic Airways Holdings Inc. , may seek a marketing agreement
with a major carrier as industry collaboration expands, Republic
Chief Executive Officer  Bryan Bedford  said.  Bedford declined to offer specifics in a telephone
interview today or say whether Frontier already is in talks.
Airlines use marketing agreements to extend the reach of their
route systems, reaping some of the benefits of a merger without
the risks.  “We do believe there is a low-cost opportunity where,
frankly, we think Frontier could help some of our network
partners,” Bedford said. “It’s premature to speculate on who
and what that would be.”  Network carriers often use regional airlines such as
Republic’s Chautauqua and Shuttle America to funnel passengers
from smaller cities into multiple hub airports. Republic added
Frontier and Midwest Air Group Inc., which primarily fly out of
 Denver  and Milwaukee, last year.  “The Republic management team has made no secret of the
fact they’d do a deal with somebody and they’d be happy about
it,”  Helane Becker , an analyst with Dahlman Rose & Co. in New
York, said in an interview. “It would make total sense if they
did something like that in Denver with United or Southwest.”  Frontier competes in Denver primarily with  Southwest
Airlines Co.  and United Airlines, a unit of United Continental
Holdings Inc.  ‘Fares Already Cut’  AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines and JetBlue Airways Corp.
agreed in March to a partnership that gives American passengers
flying into New York’s Kennedy airport access to JetBlue flights
to Boston and beyond.  Hawaiian Airlines Inc. signed a code-share, or marketing,
agreement, in September with Delta Air Lines Inc., the second-
biggest U.S. carrier. Alaska Air Group Inc. said last month it
was expanding a code-share with American on flights between the
U.S. West Coast and Mexico.  “It doesn’t have to be consolidation,” Bedford said of
changes in the airline industry. “There are other options we
are seeing in terms of collaboration.”  Republic is focusing on completing the integration of
Frontier and Midwest into one carrier during the next five
months. Bedford said he isn’t worried about increased
competition from Southwest, the largest low-fare carrier, as it
combines with AirTran Holdings Inc.  “Everywhere we fly against those guys, the fares have
already been cut,” he said. “Whether we’re competing against
two airlines or one bigger Southwest, I don’t really think that
changes the market dynamics that much.”  Republic fell 22 cents, or 2.5 percent, to $8.41 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The  shares  have
risen about 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at  edufner@@bloomberg.net 