-- Rio Tinto Says China Shows Signs of Growth as Industries Expand
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-10-11T08:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/rio-tinto-says-china-shows-positive-signs-of-growth-as-industries-expand.html
Rio Tinto Group , which gets almost a
quarter of its revenue from China, said the East Asian country
has begun to show “positive” signs of growth again as its
manufacturing and construction industries recover.  “Two months ago there were jitters in financial markets
about the sustainability of Chinese growth,”  Vivek Tulpule ,
chief economist for the world’s third-biggest mining company,
said today at a briefing in Melbourne. “Since then signs have
turned more positive. China is surprising us again on the
upside.’’  While China’s economic growth cooled to an annual 10.3
percent in the second quarter from 11.9 percent in the first,
manufacturing, trade and construction are now rebounding,
Tulpule said. China last year became Rio’s biggest customer,
surpassing North America and Europe. The London-based company is
the world’s second-largest exporter of iron ore.  China lowered benchmark borrowing costs and implemented a 4
trillion-yuan ($600 billion) spending package in the past two
years to shield the economy from the global financial crisis.  “Resource companies continue to see the benefits from this
stimulus in very strong prices right now for almost all of the
commodities we produce,’’ Tulpule said, according to notes of
his speech. Commodity prices last week soared to their highest
in almost two years after the U.S. cut its crop-supply forecasts
and the dollar slumped.  Iron Ore Consumption  Demand growth for iron ore, a steelmaking ingredient, may
resume at the end of next year, according to Vale SA, the
world’s largest exporter of the material. Spot iron-ore prices
have gained 24 percent to $145.30 a metric ton from their 2010
low in July, according to the  Steel Index .  Still, China’s growth will decline on average over the
“next several years,’’ Tulpule said. It may slow to between 6
percent and 7 percent toward the end of the decade, compared
with about 9 percent this year, he said.  China faces demands from Western nations to let the yuan
rise more quickly at a time when the U.S. is trying to trim its
trade deficit and European nations are seeking to stem an
outflow of manufacturing jobs.  China’s currency is and may remain undervalued as the
nation’s productivity improves, Tulpule said. “The implication
is that the currency will almost certainly appreciate in real
terms over the next few years -- probably substantially,’’ he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 