-- Rupee Approaches Two-Year High as Foreign Funds Buy Indian Stocks, Bonds
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2010-10-11T05:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/rupee-climbs-toward-two-year-high-as-foreigners-buy-india-stocks-bonds.html
India’s rupee rose toward a two-year
high on speculation overseas investors will pump more funds in
to the nation’s assets as the economic outlook improves.  Inflows  into equities rose to a record 979.6 billion rupees
this year ($22 billion) and foreigners on Oct. 7 bought more of
the securities than they sold for a 27th straight day, according
to data published by the  Securities and Exchange Board of India .
Global funds’ debt purchases for the year totaled 481.7 billion
rupees as of Oct. 7, the data showed. Share sales are also
helping attract capital, with state-owned  Coal India Ltd. 
planing to raise 150 billion rupees this month in India’s
biggest initial public offering.  “Persistent fund inflows are exerting pressure on the
rupee to appreciate,” said  Vikas Babu , a currency trader at
state-owned Andhra Bank in Mumbai. “The initial public
offerings should evince more interest from foreigners.”  The rupee advanced 0.4 percent today to 44.27 per dollar as
of 10:21 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It’s Asia’s best performer of the past month with a 4.9 percent
gain and touched 44.11 on Oct.7, the strongest level since
September 2008.  The  economy  will expand 9.7 percent in 2010, the
International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 6, revising a July
estimate for 9.4 percent growth.  India may intervene in the foreign-exchange market if
capital flows “disrupt” the economy,  central bank  Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao said Oct. 9 at the International Monetary
Fund’s annual meeting in Washington. So far, policy makers have
not had to buy dollars to counter the local currency’s
appreciation, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  