-- EU Says Poland, Russia `Very Close' to Agreement in Talks on Gas Supplies
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2010-10-11T11:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/russia-poland-very-close-to-gas-agreement-eu-says-update1-.html
Poland and Russia are “very close”
to an agreement on adjusting a long-term gas-supply contract to
make it compatible with European Union law, the EU said.  Poland reached a preliminary accord with Russian gas
monopoly  OAO Gazprom  in January, though the contract wasn’t
signed after the  European Commission  said it was assessing
whether the deal was in line with EU regulation, including
issues related to the pipeline’s management, access to third
parties and tariffs.  The last meetings between Poland and Russia, with the EU
acting as an adviser, were “very fruitful,” according to Marlene Holzner , the commission’s energy spokeswoman.  “It was very constructive and we think that in the next 10
days there will be another meeting where hopefully we either
come to an agreement or are very close to it,” Holzner told a
regular press conference in Brussels today.  The new deal will raise annual deliveries of natural gas to
Poland to as much as 10.2 billion cubic meters from about 7.4
billion. The increase will cover a supply gap after one of the
country’s transit sources halted last year and will help secure
supply from the Yamal pipeline.  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA , Poland’s
dominant gas company, said on Sept. 20 that under the existing
annual arrangements its supplies may be enough to meet demand
only until October.  ‘A Compromise’  The two governments are likely to sign an accord by the end
of the month, Russian Deputy Energy Minister  Anatoly Yanovsky 
said on Oct. 4. Russia offered “a compromise” and expects
Poland and the European Union to agree to it, he said.  Poland has been seeking to raise gas supplies since early
last year, when trader RosUkrEnergo AG, 50 percent-owned by
 Gazprom , halted deliveries following a dispute between Russia
and Ukraine. Under a contract that ran out on Dec. 31,
RosUkrEnergo was supposed to deliver 2.3 billion cubic meters of
gas to Poland in 2009.  The new deal extends the previous contract by 15 years to
2037. Gazprom will keep using Yamal, which runs across Poland to
Germany, through 2045, according to the agreement.  The contract would help Poland, which gets about two-thirds
of its gas from Russia, to avoid supply reductions similar to
those faced by its chemical and oil refining industries earlier
this year when temperatures fell.  “The core of our legislation says we’d like all companies
to have access to pipeline infrastructure on the same
conditions, same tariffs,” Holzner said. “There were or there
are still elements in the contract which are not in line with
European law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  