-- Russia May Extend Rosneft Tax Breaks at Vankor, Kudrin Says
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2010-10-11T08:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/russia-may-extend-rosneft-tax-breaks-at-vankor-kudrin-says.html
The Russian government may extend
tax breaks for state-run  OAO Rosneft  at the Vankor field, the
country’s largest new oil development, possibly saving the
company $4 billion a year.  The Finance Ministry will review a request from Deputy
Prime Minister Igor Sechin, who is also Rosneft’s chairman, to
prolong the reduced tax rates at Vankor beyond this year after
costs rose, Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said.  “Right now we are concentrating only on Vankor because
there is a proposal on Vankor in particular to extend breaks for
a little bit longer,” Kudrin told reporters this weekend in
Washington, where he took part in the International Monetary
Fund’s annual meeting.  Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer, has lobbied for tax
relief for Vankor, one of a new generation of remote Siberian
deposits, saying it needs longer breaks on the export duty to
boost output and supply a pipeline being built to supply the
Asia and Pacific regions. A select number of deposits in eastern
and northern Siberia enjoy lower tax rates.  “If they do get longer breaks on the export duty, at
current oil prices, they could save about $4 billion a year,”
Artem Konchin, an oil and gas analyst at UniCredit SpA in
Moscow, said today by telephone.  Rosneft shares rose as much as 2.4 percent in Moscow,
headed for the biggest gain since Oct. 1, and traded up 2.1
percent at 212.40 rubles at 11:58 a.m.  OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second largest oil producer, will
receive export tax breaks for Caspian Sea oil similar to those
given to deposits supplying the East Siberian-Pacific Ocean
pipe, Kudrin said.  “The discount rate will be exactly like eastern Siberia,
only their duration will be somehow fixed,” Kudrin said.  Lukoil began production at Russia’s first large oil project
in the Caspian Sea earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor on this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  