-- Santander Brazil Forecasts Revenue Growth to Beat Itau, Bradesco
-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2010-10-11T13:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/santander-brazil-forecasts-revenue-growth-to-beat-itau-bradesco.html
Banco Santander Brasil SA  expects
its revenue growth to beat that of  Itau Unibanco Holding SA  and
 Banco Bradesco SA  this year and in 2011 as it expands retail
services such as credit cards, as well as investment banking,
said Vice-President for Finance  Carlos Lopez Galan .  “We’re very well positioned in services for individuals,”
Lopez Galan said in an Oct. 8 interview in Rio de Janeiro.
“We’re increasing corporate and investment banking services,
taking advantage of our global platform.”  Santander Brasil, which raised 12.3 billion reais ($7.4
billion) in an initial share offering a year ago, expects
consumer-led services to drive growth as Latin America’s biggest
economy expands at the fastest pace in two decades, according to
Lopez Galan. The local unit of Spain’s largest bank plans to
open 600 new branches in Brazil by the end of 2012, he said.  Bank lending in August expanded 2.2 percent from the
previous month, the fastest pace since July 2009, led by an
increase in mortgage lending, according to the central bank.  Three Brazilian banks - Itau,  Bradesco  and Banco do Brasil
SA - are among the world’s 10 biggest credit-card issuers,
according to data from London-based research and consulting firm
Lafferty Group.  Sao Paulo-based Santander Brasil, which is Brazil’s fourth-
largest bank by market value,  rose  3.2 percent this year,
compared with a 9.2 percent gain for Itau and an 18 percent rise
in Bradesco. Return on equity is at 4.9 percent so far this
year, compared with 31 percent at Itau and 21 percent at
Bradesco, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Lagging Peers  The underperformance is partly explained by the impact of
costs related to its acquisition and integration of Banco Real,
ABN Amro Holding NV’s unit, said  Victor Martins , who recently
started covering the bank as an analyst at Planner Corretora de
Valores in Sao Paulo.  “Santander’s returns are below its peers partly because
it’s still dealing with the integration and costs related to the
Real acquisition,” said Martins.  Santander ranks fifth among equity sales underwriters in
Brazil, having worked as a coordinator of  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA’s  $70 billion share offer last month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Santander Brasil posted a 9.5 percent rise in net income in
the second quarter to 1.77 billion reais compared with 1.61
billion reais in the same period last year.  Itau , the country’s largest bank by market value, increased
earnings by 23 percent to 3.2 billion reais in the second
quarter from 2.6 billion reais. Osasco-based  Bradesco , Brazil’s
second-largest bank, said second-quarter net profit rose 4.3
percent to 2.4 billion reais compared with 2.3 billion reais.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adriana Brasileiro  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  