-- Sarkozy Faces New Clash With Unions Tomorrow Over Pension Bill
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-10-11T13:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/sarkozy-clashes-with-unions-tomorrow-over-pensions-amid-air-rail-strikes.html
French labor unions strike tomorrow
for the fourth time in five weeks, disrupting rail and air 
service and threatening on open-ended protest as they press
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to scrap his pension-system overhaul.  Three rallies since Sept. 7 that brought hundreds of
thousands of protesters onto the streets failed to derail
Sarkozy’s plan to raise the retirement age to 62 from 60 and
lift the age for a full pension to 67 from 65. The government
says the changes are needed to help France cope with an ageing
population and help balance the pension system’s budget by 2018.  Workers from the railway and the Paris subway as well as
teachers, air-traffic controllers and port and refinery
employees promise to walk out to protest the changes. Labor
unions warn they may continue the strike every 24 hours unless
the government backs down.  “We’re facing a wall,”  Force Ouvriere  union Secretary
General  Jean-Claude Mailly  told RMC radio today. “Only a show
of force, thus a big protest, can force the government to
move.”  About 30 percent of flights to and from  Roissy Charles de
Gaulle airport  and half of those at Paris Orly will be canceled
tomorrow, affecting mainly medium-haul and domestic flights.
French high-speed trains, the national railway system and the
Paris metro service will also be disrupted.  While  the government  will amend the bill, including a
measure to ensure that parents who interrupted their careers to
raise children won’t be penalized, Sarkozy’s plan is likely to
win final parliamentary passage before the end of the month,
Raymond Soubie, the president’s aide, said on Oct. 8. The bill,
which was approved by the  National Assembly  last month, is now
being debated in the Senate.  ‘Must Hold On’  “The government must hold on, because we need this reform
to save our system,”  Luc Chatel , the government spokesman said
today on  France 2  television. He declined to say if Sarkozy
would revise the bill further. “The text has been modified with
about 10 amendments,” Chatel said, dismissing claims “that the
government doesn’t want to change anything.”  A survey in today’s  Le Parisien  newspaper showed 69 percent
of the respondents support tomorrow’s protest and 61 percent
said they favor an open-ended strike. The Paris-based  pollster
CSA  called 1,011 adults on Oct. 6-7 and gave no margin of error.  Air France, Ryanair  France’s aviation authority  advised carriers to cut half of
their flights to and from Paris Orly and a third to and from
Charles de Gaulle because of the air controllers’ strike.  Air
France-KLM Group  said the protest may affect all its long-haul
flights and some European and domestic flights.  Ryanair Holdings
Plc  said it’s canceling 250 French flights tomorrow.  Eurostar  trains to the U.K. will operate normally and eight
of 10 Thalys trains to Belgium, the Netherlands and certain
German cities will run, national railway operator SNCF said in a
 statement  on its website. Half of the Lyria trains to Geneva and
Zurich will run, while all high-speed trains to Italy and Spain
have been canceled.  A third of the  high-speed trains  between Paris and the
south of France will run, as will half of those between the
capital city and the north. Local and regional trains will be
disrupted.  Paris metro  lines 1, 11 and 14 will operate normally. Two
out of three trains on lines 3, 4, 8, 13 and half of the subways
for lines 2, 5, 7, 9, 10, 12 will run. The Paris metro has been
disrupted less by workers’ strikes since 2007, when the
government introduced what it called the minimum service.  Utilities Join In  The RER B commuter train, which  connects  Orly and Charles
de Gaulle, will face the most disruptions, with four of every
five trains not working. Half of the commuter trains A will
operate normally.  Workers at refineries and gas and electricity plants will
also strike tomorrow. Workers at the oil terminal of the port of
Marseille -- on strike for the past 15 days because of the
government’s plan to revamp the ports system -- will join the
nationwide walkout.  Unions said 2.9 million people across France demonstrated
on Oct. 2 against the pension reform, which also increases taxes
on households and companies to plug the deficit of the country’s
pay-as-you-go pension system. Police put the number at 899,000.
A Sept. 23 rally drew between 997,000 and 3 million protesters,
according to figures released by the government and unions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  