-- Saudi Aramco to Supply Asia Full Crude Oil Volumes for Loading in November
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-10-11T03:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/saudi-aramco-to-supply-asia-full-crude-oil-volumes-for-loading-in-november.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s
largest state-owned oil company, will supply full contractual
volumes of crude to Asia for loading in November, according to
refinery officials in China and Taiwan.  Saudi Aramco, as the company is known, will provide 100
percent of cargoes sold under long-term contracts for a 12th
month, according to a survey of refinery officials, all of whom
asked to remain unidentified, citing confidentiality agreements
with the Middle East producer.  The decision to provide full exports comes after the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed in March to
leave output quotas unchanged for the fifth time since 2008. The
group is meeting on Oct. 14. They are unlikely to change their
production levels, Qatar’s Energy Minister Abdullah bin Hamad
al-Attiyah said yesterday.  OPEC exceeded its targets by 1.92 million barrels a day in
September, according to a Bloomberg survey of producers,
analysts and oil companies who follow the group’s output.  Saudi Arabia  lowered its production last month by 40,000
barrels a day to 8.25 million, the survey showed. That was about
199,000 barrels over its target of 8.051 million.  Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., the state-run producer in the
United Arab Emirates capital, said on Sept. 27 it would maintain
cuts in November shipments of its biggest export grade, Murban,
to buyers with long-term contracts.  Supplies will remain reduced by 15 percent from contractual
volumes, matching the level in October, the company said. Lower
Zakum will have a cut of 15 percent, down from 10 percent.  November Umm Shaif exports will be reduced by 20 percent
compared with a 15 percent cut, and Upper Zakum crude deliveries
will be 20 percent lower than contracted volumes after no cuts
were announced for October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net . 