-- Saudi Arabian Inflation Slows to 5.9% in September on Lower Food Prices
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-10-11T18:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/saudi-arabian-inflation-slows-to-5-9-in-september-on-lower-food-prices.html
Saudi Arabian inflation slowed for
the first time in eight months in September on lower food and
beverage prices in the Arab world’s biggest economy.  Price growth eased to 5.9 percent from 6.1 percent a month
earlier, the state-run Saudi Press Agency said on its  website 
today. Food and drink inflation slowed to 7.5 percent from 8
percent in August. On the month, prices rose 0.5 percent.  “Prices were higher during July and August and fell
slightly in September because of lower demand for certain food
types,”  John Sfakianakis , Banque Saudi Fransi’s chief
economist, said by telephone from Riyadh. “I don’t expect
prices for the rest of the year to ease significantly because
you will see rents rising towards the end of the year. Food
prices will not fall substantially.”  Inflationary pressure in the world’s largest oil supplier
is “worrying” though it is “premature” to draw conclusions,
central bank Governor  Muhammad al-Jasser  said in September.  Saudi Arabia’s economy is expected to grow 3.5 percent this
year as it benefits from the government’s $400 billion, five-
year investment package announced in late 2008 and higher oil
prices, al-Jasser said in September.  Inflation will remain above 5 percent in the first half of
next year,  National Commercial Bank  said in an e-mailed report
last month. A lack of residential housing and a recovery in
domestic demand are also pushing up prices, the Jeddah-based
bank said.  The central bank last year cut the repurchase rate to 2
percent, the lowest since 2004, and the reverse repurchase rate
to 0.25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 