-- HSBC Rail Unit Bidders to Seek $2.8 Billion of Loans and Bonds for Buyout
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-10-11T10:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/hsbc-rail-unit-sale-is-backed-by-1-75-billion-pounds-of-debt.html
The group bidding for HSBC Holdings
Plc’s U.K. train leasing business is raising about 1.75 billion
pounds ($2.8 billion) of loans and bonds, two people familiar
with the situation said.  The group comprising of the infrastructure unit of  Morgan
Stanley , Star Capital Partners Ltd. and 3i Infrastructure Plc,
plan to raise about 1.25 billion pounds from loans and 500
million pounds from bonds, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the information is private.  The loans will have a four-year portion paying a starting
interest of 200 basis points more than benchmark lending rates,
and six-year tranches at an initial interest margin of 225 basis
points, the people said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The borrowing is being arranged by Lloyds Banking Group
Plc, Royal Bank of Canada, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
Credit Agricole CIB, HSBC, ING Groep NV, Societe Generale SA and
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.  Morgan Stanley in New York, Star Capital in London and
Jersey, Channel Islands-based 3i may sign an agreement to buy
the leasing business from HSBC by the end of the year, said the
people.  Officials at Morgan Stanley and 3i declined to comment.
Star Capital didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  HSBC bought the U.K. train leasing company Eversholt
Holdings Ltd. in 1997 for 726.5 million pounds. The acquisition
came a year after the government sold Eversholt, which owned
one-third of Britain’s rolling stock, to a management buyout
team for 580 million pounds as part of its plan to sell off
state-owned British Rail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  