-- Schwarzenegger Says Russia Is Gold Mine for Investors
-- B y   L u c i a n   K i m   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-10-11T13:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/schwarzenegger-says-putin-s-russia-is-gold-mine-for-investors.html
California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  compared Russia to a gold mine of economic
opportunity as he led a trade mission to Moscow.  Schwarzenegger, who met President  Dmitry Medvedev  for the
second time in half a year today, has embraced the 45-year-old
Russian leader’s plan to recreate a Silicon Valley in the
Skolkovo suburb outside Moscow.  “I love places where there is an extraordinary
potential,” Schwarzenegger, 63, said before he visited Skolkovo
with Medvedev. “It’s almost like looking at a gold or diamond
mine and saying: all you got to do is go in there and get it.”  Medvedev, who succeeded current Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  in 2008, has called for an end to Russia’s dependence on
natural resources and the creation of a knowledge-based economy
that can compete globally. Schwarzenegger, accompanied by
representatives of two dozen California companies, called
Medvedev “a great visionary” for his desire to remake Russia.  The two men first met in San Francisco in June, when
Medvedev toured the offices of Apple Inc., Cisco Systems Inc.
and Twitter Inc. during a U.S. visit. The Russian president, who
has a Twitter account, blogs and uses an iPhone, has made
modernization with the help of Western countries a centerpiece
of his presidency.  ‘Great Experience’  “We’re extremely interested in your great experience and
aren’t ashamed to learn,” Medvedev told Schwarzenegger. “We
have to admit that in many areas we’ve unfortunately fallen
behind. We’re really counting on our cooperation bearing
fruit.”  State-run  Russian Nanotechnologies Corp.  is in talks with
California venture capitalists on eight to nine deals worth $1
billion, Chief Executive Officer  Anatoly Chubais  told reporters
in Skolkovo.  Medvedev has already won commitments from Siemens AG, Cisco
Systems and Nokia Oyj to participate in Skolkovo. Former Intel
Corp. head  Craig Barrett , who is traveling with Schwarzenegger,
serves as co-chairman of Skolkovo’s supervisory board.  “There is a backlog of ideas in Russia that you can easily
take into the market,” Barrett said today. “Skolkovo can be a
catalyst. It’s not the whole answer, but it can be a helpful
answer.”  ‘Perfect Timing’  Medvedev took Schwarzenegger for a spin in an antique
Soviet Chaika car after their meeting. The Russian president
joked that Schwarzenegger, who has three more months left in his
term, would have a shot at filling the vacant Moscow mayor’s
position if he were a Russian citizen.  “It’s perfect timing for Putin to be prime minister and
Medvedev to be president,” Schwarzenegger told the  American
Chamber of Commerce in Russia  before the meeting. “This is the
ideal time, when things are still at a raw level.”  There is no reason why Russia shouldn’t be able to export
cars to Europe or motorcycles to the U.S. one day,
Schwarzenegger said. The Austrian native and former bodybuilding
champion said his “love for Russia” began in 1961 when he saw
the Soviet Union’s Yury Vlasov win a gold medal at the World
Weightlifting Championships in Vienna.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net ;
 Lyubov Pronina  in Skolkovo at
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  