-- Scotland's Priciest Home for Sale Gets Cheaper After Second Cut
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-10-12T14:08:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/scotland-s-most-expensive-house-gets-second-price-cut-on-dearth-of-buyers.html
Scotland’s most expensive house for
sale, an 18th-century mansion with 85 rooms, had its price
slashed for the second time this year as the global economic
slump curbs the enthusiasm of millionaire buyers.  The owner of  Yester House , 23 miles east of Edinburgh, cut
the asking price to 8 million pounds ($12.7 million) after
failing to attract offers at 12 million pounds. Italian-American
opera composer  Gian Carlo Menotti ’s adopted son originally put
it on the market for 15 million pounds in August 2008, the month
before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy.  “A lot of people were interested before the world started
to go to pot,” John Coleman, who heads the Edinburgh office of
property broker  Knight Frank LLP ’s, which is marketing the
house, said in an interview. “We were in negotiations on two
occasions. It didn’t happen mainly due to world economics.”  Large Scottish country houses have fallen 16 percent in
value over the past two years as the number of properties
offered outstripped buyers, Knight Frank said. That contrasts
with London’s luxury-home market, where a shortage of supply and
an influx of foreign buyers allowed prices to recover to where
they were in 2008, Knight Frank’s  monthly index  showed.  “We had a naive belief that the top end of the market in
Scotland would be immune,” Jamie Macnab, head of sales at
 Savills  Plc in Edinburgh, said in an interview. “There has been
a much more realistic attitude among sellers over the last few
weeks. People are accepting offers they would have rejected a
couple of months ago.”  Americans, Russians  Savills recorded a drop of 6.7 percent for prime Scottish
homes over the past two years, the company said.  Yester House, a Queen Anne-style  Palladian  structure that
took almost 30 years to build, was shown to wealthy Americans,
Germans, Dutch and Russians as well as potential buyers from the
U.K. and Asia in the past two years, Coleman said.  A buyer at the lowered price would get less than what was
originally offered. The current price doesn’t include the
contents of the house and about 300 acres (121 hectares) of
woodland that contain the ruins of a 13th century castle whose
subterranean hall, Goblin Ha’, was written about by Walter Scott
in his poem “ Marmion .” Still, 185 acres of parkland and some
woods are included in the asking price.  What’s more, any purchaser would have to spend as much as
500,000 pounds on restoration, and contents could add about 2
million pounds to the price tag, according to the selling agent.
Still, they would also acquire  Seton Castle  Yester won’t be the first expensive property in the area to
sell for far less than the initial asking price.  Seton Castle, four miles away, went on the market in 2005
for the equivalent of $27 million. The property, where Mary
Queen of Scots played one of the first recorded rounds of golf,
was sold by  Savills  for 5 million pounds in 2007.  Yester, designed by Scottish architects including William
Adam and Robert Adam, was commissioned in 1697 by John Hay, the
2nd Marquess of Tweeddale, whose family occupied the house until
1967. His ancestor, also called John Hay, was made the first
Lord Hay of Yester in 1488. The current Marquess is the  22nd
Lord Hay of Yester , according to Cracroft’s Peerage.  Situated on the edge of the village of Gifford in the
Lammermuir Hills, the house is completely secluded.  A visitor passes through an archway, consisting of two red
sandstone pillars linked by decorative metalwork, and then along
a driveway more than half a mile long and lined with oaks, beech
trees and sequoias.  ‘Trophy Property’  Yester last changed hands in 1972, when composer Menotti,
writer of “Amahl and the Night Visitors” and founder of the
Festival of Two Worlds in  Spoleto , Italy, was attracted by the
acoustics in the main 30-foot by 45-foot reception room, Coleman
said. Plans to build a small opera house on the site of the
derelict stables never materialized.  Francis Menotti, Gian Carlo’s 72-year-old adopted son, is
selling up because his two sons don’t want to take on the house,
Coleman said. Francis Menotti was given Yester House by his
father, the winner of two  Pulitzer Prizes , as a wedding present
when he married in 1985.  “Yester is one of the great houses of Scotland,” Tony
Perriam, a director of Edinburgh-based broker  Rettie & Co. , said
in an interview. “It is a trophy property.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 