-- Scottish Wind May Gain in ‘Overdue’ Cost Review: Energy Markets
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2010-10-12T16:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/scottish-wind-may-gain-in-overdue-review-of-u-k-costs-energy-markets.html
Scotland, source of almost half the
U.K.’s renewable energy, may benefit from a proposal to scrap
the 20-year-old rule blamed for impeding wind and sea power.  Ofgem, the nation’s electricity regulator, plans to  take
comments  until Nov. 17 on a plan that would abolish the system
that  charges  the highest carriage rates to generators furthest
from consumer centers, leaving Scotland with Britain’s highest
transmission prices. Ofgem is due to make a decision next year.  “The review of transmission charging is long overdue,”
said  Martin McAdam , chief executive officer of Edinburgh-based
 Aquamarine Power Ltd. , which joined with  Scottish & Southern
Energy Plc  to develop 1,000 megawatts, starting with a wave
project off the coast of Orkney, Scotland. “The high
transmission charges are preventing potential developers from
committing to underwrite the construction of new capacity.”  Scotland, with 7,300 miles (11,800 kilometers) of  coastline 
and  turbines  poised to supply 1.7 million homes, has the
potential to produce 10 percent of the wave power and 25 percent
of the offshore wind energy in Europe. The U.K., which gets a
lower proportion of its power from renewable sources than other
nations in the 27-member European Union except for Malta and
Luxembourg, is under pressure to reduce disincentives.  Britain’s power industry pays 2.5 billion pounds a year to
ship electricity from generators to customers, according to
Ofgem. The charges, equivalent to about 5 percent of wholesale
prices, are passed through to end users. U.K. baseload power for
summer closed today at 43.90 pounds ($69.38) a megawatt hour.  200 Billion Pounds  The current transmission charges reflect costs of building
cables, the distance to consumption centers and congestion on
grid. A windfarm in the Scottish Highlands pays 22.79 pounds to
move every kilowatt of electricity on the grid. The same plan
means  Centrica Plc,  Britain’s biggest energy supplier, is
eligible for a subsidy of 1.36 pounds for every kilowatt
produced at its new 885-megawatt gas-fed power station near
Plymouth, southern England, an area where little power is made.  “The logic behind the charging system is that it attempts
to reflect long-run costs of investing in the network to
transport power longer distances from areas of generation to
areas of high demand,” said Adrian Palmer, the London-based
senior manager at  Redpoint Energy , an energy research firm.
“The regulator is looking at how better to distribute these
costs to power generators and power suppliers.”  Further Subsidy  Britain subsidizes renewable energy by awarding certificates
whose value increase as the government boost requirement for
renewable generation. One megawatt of power generated from green
sources receives one certificate, which fetched an average price
of 45.49 pounds each in a Sept. 28  auction .  Removing the distance factor in U.K. transmission charges
“is not good economics,”  Lakis Athanasiou , an analyst at
London-based Evolution Securities, said by e-mail today.  “What is now being proposed is a further subsidy,” he
said. “I can’t see why Scottish wind generation should get
preferential treatment versus wind or other renewable generation
elsewhere in the U.K.”  Changing the system would benefit Perth-based Scottish &
Southern Energy Plc and Scottish Power Ltd., a unit of Bilbao,
Spain-based  Iberdrola SA . Scottish Power’s generation includes
500 wind turbines with capacity of 400 megawatts, hydro plants
in Scotland and three gas-fueled plants in southeast England.  “We have been concerned for some time that the current
rules on charging for transmission are hindering the U.K.’s
ability to make cost-effective progress toward key environmental
and energy policy goals,”  Nick Horler , CEO of Scottish Power.  ‘Cheapest System Wins’  Revised transmission pricing would likely shift costs to
companies such as Dusseldorf-based  E.ON AG , whose U.K. fossil-
fuel plants generate about 10 percent of the nation’s power.  “You have to be sensible about this to ensure that the
most efficient and cheapest system wins,” said  Peter Bolitho , a
trading manager at E.ON U.K.. “If it’s more efficient to build
a power station in the south where the demand is, then it’s
better to do that rather than to extend transmission lines at a
higher cost from more remote areas.”  Under EU targets, Britain must source 15 percent of its
energy from  renewables  by 2020, up from the 2.2 percent share in
2008. Sweden gets about 44 percent from renewable, and Finland
gets 31 percent.  Scotland has connection agreements in place for 12,000
megawatts of wind power,  Stewart Larque , a London-based
spokesman at  National Grid , said in a Sept. 24 interview.  Thatcher’s Legacy  “This huge amount of proposed wind generation suggests the
current regime isn’t discouraging” investment, Larque said.
“We don’t think the current system is unfair, but there’s so
much change going on and new challenges that now probably is a
good time to take a step back and review the whole system.”  Britain’s power network was built in the 20th century to
move coal-fired power from Northern England to power consumers
in the south and Midlands, according to Robert Gross, director
at Imperial College London’s Centre for Energy Policy and
Technology. Existing transmission prices were set in 1990 under
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher to cut power costs by promoting
generation as close as possible to consumers.  Aquamarine Power’s Oyster wave-power machine, in
development since 2003, would be subject to the U.K.’s highest
transmission charges. The company plans to develop 200 megawatt
of wave capacity off the coast of Orkney, the first step in a
deal with Scottish & Southern Energy Plc to develop 1,000
megawatts of wave-power capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Airlie  at   cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  