-- Shinhan's Ra Says He Held Bank Accounts in Borrowed Names, Breaking Laws
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-10-11T01:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/shinhan-s-ra-says-he-held-bank-accounts-in-borrowed-names-breaking-laws.html
Shinhan Financial Group Co.  Chairman
 Ra Eung Chan  said that he held bank accounts under borrowed
names, breaking local laws.  “Things that I ordered to be done a long time ago have
stayed in place even though I didn’t realize it,” Ra told
reporters today in Seoul, responding to a question on why he ran
the bank accounts under others’ name.  Ra, who’s leading South Korea’s largest financial company
by market value, admitted the irregularity for the first time
after the South Korean regulator on Aug. 25 said that it had
requested information from prosecutors on whether Ra, 71, broke
the law by opening accounts in other people’s names.  Shares  of Shinhan dropped 2 percent to 45,550 won at 10:21
a.m. in Seoul trading, dropping for a fourth consecutive day on
concern that the continuing controversy surrounding senior
executives may spark a  management shakeup .  South Korea’s Financial Supervisory Service last week
notified Ra that the regulator plans to impose a “heavy
penalty” on the chairman over an allegation that Ra broke the
law by opening accounts with other people’s name. Ra declined to
comment on whether he will voluntarily resign from his post.  On Sept. 2, the company’s banking unit asked South Korean
prosecutors to probe Shinhan Financial President  Shin Sang Hoon 
over alleged breach of duty and embezzlement. Four Shinhan
shareholders filed a lawsuit in September seeking the dismissal
of Shinhan Bank Chief Executive Officer  Lee Baek Soon .  The “heavy penalty” involves three potential sanctions: a
recommendation for dismissal, suspension from duty, or a
disciplinary warning that would bar Ra from seeking another term
as chairman, according to an FSS official. The penalty will be
finalized by an FSS committee later. Ra’s current term ends in
March 2013.  Ra will supply detailed documents to explain his position
to the FSS, the chairman said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  