-- Sino-Forest Plans $500 Million of U.S. Dollar Debt to Buy Tree Plantations
-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-10-11T14:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/sino-forest-plans-500-million-of-u-s-dollar-debt-to-buy-tree-plantations.html
Sino-Forest Corp. , the Mississagua,
Ontario-based forestry company that operates in China, plans to
sell $500 million of U.S. dollar-denominated 7-year notes that
may be used to acquire and reforest tree plantations.  The debt will be privately placed, the company said today
in a statement distributed by CNW Group. Bank of America Corp.
and Credit Suisse Group AG will manage the sale, according to a
person familiar with the transaction, who asked not to be
identified because the details are private.  Sino-Forest has arranged meetings with investors in
Singapore on Oct. 12, in Hong Kong on Oct. 13 and on Oct. 14, in
New York on Oct. 13, in Boston on Oct. 14 and in Los Angeles on
Oct. 15, the person said. Sino-Forest has the right to buy the
bonds back after four years, the person said.  Moody’s Investors Service assigned the notes a Ba2 rating
and Standard & Poor’s graded them an equivalent BB, the
companies said today in separate notes.  “If the notes are issued, Sino-Forest will be in a
position to significantly step up its investment plan for
acquiring and replanting of forest plantations without impairing
its day-to-day liquidity needs,” Moody’s analyst Jiming Zou
wrote in the note.  The rating also includes “the execution risk associated
with managing a fast expanding forest asset base and the
company’s aggressive growth appetite, which has resulted in
continued negative free cash flow,” the Moody’s analysts wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  