-- SKS Microfinance Says India Court Rules CEO Rao May Not Take Key Decisions
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2010-10-11T13:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/sks-microfinance-says-india-court-rules-ceo-rao-may-not-take-key-decisions.html
SKS Microfinance Ltd. , the Indian
lender backed by  George Soros , said a court ruled that newly
appointed Chief Executive Officer M.R. Rao can’t make major
decisions without the approval of the board.  SKS Microfinance  shares have declined 3.6 percent since Oct.
4, when the lender replaced  Suresh Gurumani  with Rao, four years
before the end of Gurumani’s term. The stock rose 0.4 percent at
the 3:30 p.m. close on the  Bombay Stock Exchange  today, bringing
gains since its Aug. 10 initial public offering to 25 percent.  The Andhra Pradesh High Court’s ruling, which came in
response to an application from S. Lekha to stop SKS’s board
from terminating Gurumani’s term as CEO, will be effective
pending further orders, the company said in a statement to the
Bombay Stock Exchange today.  Gurumani continues to serve on the board of SKS, India’s
largest microfinance lender, the Hyderabad-based company said in
a response to the court. He “can take every possible action to
protect the interests of every person concerned as a member of
the board,” the court said in its ruling dated Oct. 8.  The company has withdrawn “all powers and authorities
granted” to Gurumani, it said in a statement to the Bombay
Stock Exchange on Oct. 4. The company’s management, including
founder Vikram Akula, has not provided a reason for why Gurumani
was fired.  Gurumani started as CEO on Apr. 1, 2009 on a five-year term,
according to the company’s initial share sale document. SKS
raised 16.3 billion rupees ($366 million) selling stock in
August. The lender’s profit more than tripled in the three
months ended June 30 from a year earlier.  Regulator’s Questions  The Securities and Exchange Board of India wrote a letter
to SKS last week asking about Gurmani’s ouster, the Economic
Times reported Oct. 8. The markets regulator asked the company
if there were any developments warranting the dismissal of
Gurumani between the time SKS filed a draft red herring
prospectus for its IPO and the time shares were allotted, the
paper said.  SKS has responded to the letter, addressed to the company’s
compliance head, confirmed spokesman  Atul Takle .  Soros’s Quantum  (M) Ltd. hedge fund owns 0.4 percent stake
after the IPO, according to the sale document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  