-- SocGen Calls Claim Bank Lied to Court ‘Defamatory’
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2010-10-11T13:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/socgen-calls-lawyer-s-claim-bank-lied-to-kerviel-court-on-tax-defamatory-.html
Societe Generale SA  provided “full
transparency” about a 1.7 billion-euro deferred tax credit it
received because of the 4.9 billion-euro 2008 trading loss from
 Jerome Kerviel , the bank’s lawyer said.  “It is defamatory to claim that Societe Generale had lied
to the court about its loss,”  Jean Veil , a lawyer for the bank,
told Europe1 radio yesterday.  Societe Generale confirmed his statement and released
details on the tax credit, reported as early as August 2008, to
refute comments by Kerviel’s lawyer  Olivier Metzner  to  France
Info  radio on Oct. 9. Metzner said the bank “voluntarily,
fraudulently tricked the court” by not figuring the credit into
its calculation of the loss.  The dispute over the size of Societe Generale’s loss comes
less than a week after a Paris criminal court ordered Kerviel,
33, to repay the full 4.9 billion euros. A Societe Generale
spokeswoman said the next day the bank was willing to negotiate
a reduction in the award, which is being appealed together with
Kerviel’s three-year jail sentence.  “They should have asked for an amount that took into
account” the tax credit, Metzner said in a telephone interview
today. “Therefore they misled the court.”  Any revision to the damages award will be up to the appeal
court, Metzner said. He hasn’t been contacted by the bank or its
lawyers about the proposed negotiation, he said.  Kerviel amassed 50 billion euros in unauthorized positions,
concealed with faked hedges. The Paris-based bank discovered the
trades in January 2008 and decided to unwind the bets over three
days, resulting in the loss. The court rejected his defense that
the bank knew about and encouraged what he was doing, holding
Kerviel solely responsible. He was convicted of breach of trust,
forgery and computer hacking.  The 4.9 billion-euro figure is the difference between the
6.38 billion euros it lost unwinding the positions and Kerviel’s
1.47 billion-euro trading profit in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
 Fabio Benedetti-Valentini  in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 