-- South Korea Stocks to Extend Gains on Profit, Won, Goldman Sachs' Moe Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-11T03:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/south-korea-stocks-to-extend-gains-on-profit-won-goldman-sachs-moe-says.html
South Korea’s stocks will extend
this year’s rally as valuations are “cheap” relative to
earnings prospects and on expectations the nation’s currency
will strengthen further, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “We think there’s still more juice to South Korea,”
 Timothy Moe , a Hong Kong-based strategist at Goldman Sachs, said
in a Bloomberg Television interview today. “You have earnings
expectations for next year very conservatively set. I think the
potential for upward revisions to earnings is pretty strong and
the currency is strengthening.”  Moe forecast South Korea’s  Kospi Index  may gain as much as
30 percent in the next 12 months as analysts increase their
estimates for earnings per share growth at the nation’s
companies from the current 7 percent.  The Kospi has advanced 13 percent this year, adding to its
50 percent gain last year. The gauge still trades at 10.6 times
estimated earnings, the lowest among major markets in Asia. It
is the second-best performer this year after India among the
world’s 15 biggest markets, according to Bloomberg data.  South Korea’s won has strengthened 7.5 percent in the past
three months, the second-best performance in Asia. The currency
is likely to gain to 1,075 to the dollar at year-end,  Kwon Young Sun , senior economist at Nomura International Ltd., said in a
report dated Oct. 8.  Earnings Growth  South Korean company earnings will continue to be
“strong,”  Audrey Kaplan  of Federated Investors Inc. said in an
interview last week, estimating growth of about 16 percent to 17
percent for the next 12 months.  South Korea has favorable budget balances and relatively
low public debt to gross domestic product, and its companies
also have low “leverage” and higher profitability than the
rest of the world, said Kaplan, lead manager of the $825 million
Federated InterContinental Fund that holds almost half its
assets in emerging markets.  “You need a chair with strong legs,” Kaplan said. “Korea
has many things that are strong, and that’s why there’s lot of
interest in South Korean equities.”  Among other Asian bourses, Moe said Singapore equities are
looking more attractive as the city state’s stocks have lagged
behind other Southeast Asian nations. Singapore’s  Straits Times
Index  has gained 9.5 percent this year, compared with the 32
percent advance by Thailand’s  SET Index  and 38 percent for the
Philippines benchmark measure. The policy outlook for China
remains clouded in the near term though stocks have “more to
go” as valuations are lower than India and growth will “still
come through in a robust way,” Moe said, referring to Hong
Kong-traded Chinese stocks.  Fund Flows  Overseas investors pumped the most cash into emerging-
market equities since late 2007 in October and Asia bond funds
attracted more capital on further signs growth in developed
nations is slowing, according to EPFR Global.  The equity funds received net inflows of more than $6
billion in the week ended Oct. 6, the biggest amount in 33
months, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research company said
Oct. 8. Investors added $1.1 billion to funds dedicated to
emerging-market debt, it said. They took out $3.2 billion from
U.S. stock funds, the most in five weeks.  “People are more clearly recognizing the growth disparity
between the developed economies and the emerging economies,”
Moe said. “We’re seeing in the last few months flows in terms
of flows strongly into Asian equity markets and we think that
will persist in the fourth quarter.”  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai, Searomi Shin in Seoul. Editors:
 Reinie Booysen   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  