-- Standard Bank Must Help Employees Affected by Job Cuts, Labor Union Says
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-10-11T16:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/standard-bank-must-help-employees-affected-by-job-cuts-labor-union-says.html
Standard Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s
biggest bank, should reveal the cost of external contractors and
help staff who will be affected by looming job cuts, according
to labor union  Sasbo .  The bank has also been asked to guarantee an extra payment
for workers at the end of the year, known as a “13th check,”
Eugene Ebersohn, a negotiator for the labor union, said in a
phone interview from Johannesburg today. Sasbo further wants to
extend the period Standard Bank takes to consider employees for
“redeployment” to other posts by a month to four months.  “We also criticized them for their top-heavy management
structure,” Ebersohn said. “They acknowledged the pain.”  Standard Bank said on Oct. 5 it will cut jobs to reduce
costs, focusing on managers and executives in Johannesburg and
London. The lender’s cost-to-income ratio rose to 58.1 percent
in the first half from 49.9 percent a year earlier, with staff
costs increasing 6 percent to 9.5 billion rand ($1.38 billion),
accounting for more than half of operating expenses.  Standard Bank’s cost-to-income ratio “is somewhat higher
than the other big South African banks,”  Chris Gilmour , a
Johannesburg-based analyst at Absa Investments, said. “While
the South African economy is recovering, the pace of that
recovery is likely to be muted for longer than was originally
anticipated.”  Standard Bank expanded faster than South African rivals
 FirstRand Ltd.  and Absa Group Ltd., and is the only bank in
Africa’s biggest economy to say that it is cutting jobs.
Standard Bank spokesman  Erik Larsen  said today the lender won’t
comment beyond its Oct. 5 statement. The bank is due to meet
labor union Solidarity tomorrow.  Standard Bank will give details on the job cuts to workers
on Oct. 22, Sasbo’s Ebersohn said.  The lender’s stock fell 75 cents, or 0.7 percent, to close
at 108 rand in Johannesburg. It has risen 5.9 percent this year,
lagging its peers on the five-member  FTSE/JSE Africa Banks
Index , which has gained an average of 9.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  