-- Standard Chartered Saadiq Sees U.A.E. Central Bank Murabahah Issue in 2010
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2010-10-11T09:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/stanchart-saadiq-sees-u-a-e-central-bank-murabaha-by-end-2010.html
The United Arab Emirates central
bank will issue its first Murabahah-based Islamic certificate of
deposit this year, providing banks with more investment options,
said the chief executive officer of Standard Chartered Saadiq.  The debt market needs short-term notes to help “increase
the liquidity pool” for Islamic banks,  Afaq Khan  said today at
an Islamic banking conference in Abu Dhabi. Standard Chartered
sits on the U.A.E. central bank’s Islamic liquidity management
committee, he said.  Short-term liquidity management at Islamic banks and other
financial institutions is a challenge, central bank Governor
 Sultan bin Nasser al-Suwaidi  said at an Islamic banking
conference in Singapore in June. Banks that adhere to Shariah
principles “are facing a maturity mismatch,” said  Ahmed Talhaoui , Abu Dhabi-based head of investment at Royal Capital,
in an interview that month.  Malaysia, the world’s biggest market for Islamic bonds,
Bahrain and Indonesia sell bills to help soak up cash in the
financial system and set benchmarks for short-term bond sales.
Global assets held by financial institutions that comply with
Shariah law may climb to $1.6 trillion in 2012 from about $1
trillion, the Islamic Financial Services Board said in April.  A Murabahah transaction is a sale and deferred-payment
agreement based on an asset in which the cost and profit margin
are pre-agreed between a bank and its customer. Transactions in
Islamic finance are based on the exchange of assets rather than
interest to comply with Shariah principles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net  or
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  