-- Schwarzman Finds LBO ‘Gold Mine,’ Flees Lehman Snake Pit: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2010-10-11T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/stephen-schwarzman-stumbles-on-gold-mine-flees-lehman-snake-pit-books.html
Decades before  Stephen Schwarzman 
became a Gordon Gekko minus the slicked-back hair, he pored over
the fine print of a $380 million leveraged buyout.  The price for pump maker Houdaille Industries Inc. may look
small by today’s standards. The year was 1978, though, and the
deal opened “a gold mine” for Schwarzman, a 31-year-old banker
toiling in the snake pit of Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb Inc.  “It was like a Rosetta stone for how to do leveraged
buyouts,” he recalls during an interview in “King of
Capital,” a book that tells the story of private equity through
the rise of Schwarzman and his juggernaut,  Blackstone Group LP .  If you’re unfamiliar with the pervasive power of buyout
firms, this primer offers a fairly painless way to get up to
speed. Authors David Carey and John E. Morris, two veterans of
the Deal magazine, take the topic seriously, and then some.  They groove on LBO war stories, cast billionaire dealmakers
as masters of beneficent creative destruction, and challenge the
perception that buyout artists just strip and flip companies.
Not so, say the authors, tiptoeing nimbly down the fine line
that divides journalistic fairness from the fear of alienating
good sources.  The result, I’m sorry to say, is an awkward hybrid. Part
case study, part chronicle, part who’s who, the book traces two
stories: the arrival of LBOs as a fixture of capitalism over the
past 30 years and Blackstone’s embodiment of the trend starting
in 1985, when Schwarzman and his former Lehman boss,  Peter G. Peterson , opened an office in Manhattan’s Seagram Building with,
we’re told, just one other employee, Peterson’s secretary.  Rabbit Holes  In between, the narrative slithers down the rabbit holes of
intricate deal structures, tertiary characters and lessons on
capital calls, carried interest and dividend recapitalizations.  What you won’t find in these pages is a satisfying
biography of Schwarzman, the man serenaded by  Patti LaBelle  at
his  Park Avenue Armory  birthday bash when he turned 60. Though
Schwarzman granted the authors extensive access, the king of
capital remains hidden among the megadeals and mansions. The
morsels they drop leave us hungry for a meal that never arrives.  Fresh from Yale in 1969, for example, Schwarzman landed a
job at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, complete with office and
secretary. He was clueless about finance.  “I didn’t even know what a common stock was before I went
there,” he confesses.  ‘Noodle Salesman’  We learn, too, of Schwarzman’s reputation among close
associates. They alternately describe him as self-deprecating
and greedy, intelligent and tactless. Who else would have
compared a failed buyout to an atomic bomb dropped on Japan?  “Trying to buy a mortgage bank in the midst of the
subprime crisis was the equivalent of being a noodle salesman in
Nagasaki when the atomic bomb went off,” Schwarzman is quoted
as telling fund investors. “Not a lot of noodles left, or even
a person, and that’s what happened to us on this deal.”  As in a Broadway musical, the secondary characters exude
more pizzazz than the leading man. Peterson, Blackstone’s
cofounder, comes across as an absentminded professor who showed
up for meetings with Post-it note reminders stuck to his jacket.
 David Stockman ,  Ronald Reagan’s  budget wonk, reported for work
at Blackstone in 1988 and became a chain-smoking, coffee-
swilling legend. He absorbed data, drew up spreadsheets by hand
and held forth as the resident doomsayer.  Jimmy Lee  James B. “Jimmy” Lee Jr. , the commercial lending wizard
who financed many Blackstone deals, appears here as an upstart
innovator in silver-dollar suspenders. And then there’s  Hamilton E. “Tony” James , a Harvard man of preppie stock and former DLJ
star who could, as one coworker puts it, get away with wearing a
seersucker suit to work. Hired in 2002 to manage Blackstone, he
would steer the firm toward its public offering in June 2007,
just before the financial  sky fell .  The buyout business has come a long way since the
“barbarians” at  Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co . breached the
gate with their takeover of RJR Nabisco Inc. in the late 1980s.
Carey and Morris deserve recognition for bringing the story up
to date with this thoroughly reported, voluminous yet overly
ambitious account. I only wish that the authors, like Schwarzman
himself, hadn’t let their reach exceed their grasp.  “King of Capital: The Remarkable Rise, Fall and Rise Again
of Steve Schwarzman and Blackstone” is published by Crown
Business (391 pages, $27.50). To buy this book in North America,
click  here .  ( James Pressley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 