-- Stolichnaya, Bank of America: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2010-10-11T12:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/stolichnaya-bank-of-america-vestas-intellectual-property.html
The ownership of the Stolichnaya
trademark is in question following a ruling Oct. 8 by the 2nd
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. The three-judge panel reversed a
lower court ruling that found that the trademark was
“incontestable.”  The case may affect the deal announced Oct.7 in which
Stolichnaya will become the official vodka of the new Barclays
Center in Brooklyn, New York. SPI Group, one of the defendants
in the trademark suit, signed a five-year, multimillion dollar
agreement with Brooklyn Sports & Entertainment, the sales and
marketing arm of the Barclays Center, where the New York Nets
will play basketball beginning in 2012. According to a
statement, the agreement is Stolichnaya’s first sports deal.
Mikhail Prokhorov, Russia’s richest man, owns 80 percent of the
team and 45 percent of the Barclays Center.  A Soviet agency originally marketed and distributed the
vodka but after the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991, two
Russians affiliated with the agency assigned the trademark to
PepsiCo Inc. and ultimately to Allied Domecq Ltd. The Russian
government claims that the men who assigned the rights didn’t do
so lawfully. The 2nd Circuit has sent the issue back to the U.S.
District Court to determine whether the assignment was lawful,
but upheld the dismissal of the fraud charges in the initial
complaint.  Representing the Russian agency that brought the case, the
Federal Treasury Enterprise Sojuzplodoimport, is Quinn Emanual
Urquhart & Sullivan. Partner David W. Quinto said that the
Stolichnaya trademarks had been “hijacked” following the
breakup of the Soviet Union and it “took quite awhile to figure
out who was entitled to what.”  But Andrey Skurikhin, partner at SPI Group, the Stolichnaya
brand owner, said the 2nd Circuit’s ruling “cannot and will not
affect any” of his firm’s marketing plans.  Washington law firm Covington & Burling represents SPI
Group, along with the other defendants, Spirits International,
SPI Spirits Ltd. and Yuri Shefler and Alexey Oliynik, the two
men who originally assigned the trademarks to PepsiCo in the
patent suit. Covington partner Eugene Gulland said in an e-
mailed statement that “SPI is confident that it will prevail
and that discovery will demonstrate that the claims have no
merit and that the complaint was purely politically motivated.”  Covington didn’t represent SPI in its arena agreement, a
Covington spokeswoman said. John Weiss, of the Susan Magrino
agency, who represents Stolichnaya, didn’t know which firm
negotiated the Barclays Center deal.  David Bernstein of Debevoise & Plimpton, who represents
Allied Domecq, a wholly owned subsidiary of Pernod Ricard, said
by e-mail that Pernod Ricard is confident that the district
court will reject plaintiffs’ remaining claims when it considers
the final issues in the case, and that the court will conclude
that the Stolichnaya trademarks were properly assigned to Allied
Domecq.” Bernstein said that Pernod no longer imports or
markets Stolichnaya.  The case is Federal Treasury Enterprise Sojuzplodoimport v.
Spirits International NV, 06-3532-cv, 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals (New York).  Patents  Bank of America Faces Patent Trial Over Check Imaging  Bank of America Corp. , the largest U.S. bank by assets,
will proceed with a trial this week in a patent-infringement
lawsuit brought by  DataTreasury Corp.  over technology related to
the digital imaging of checks.  A court filing Oct. 8 showed that an agreement had been
reached with Bank of America and the company’s LaSalle Corp.,
but that agreement applied only to the parent companies, and not
the bank units that process the checks, said Eric Wetzel, a
DataTreasury spokesman.  “The case has not been settled,” Wetzel said in a
telephone interview. “The trial is moving forward.”  Closely held DataTreasury, based in Plano, Texas, is
seeking $868.7 million in damages from Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America. SunTrust Banks Inc. also is a
defendant, and DataTreasury is seeking $121.7 million from that
bank, according to a Jan. 19 court filing.  Banks including Wells Fargo & Co., JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. and BB&T Corp. have already
settled with DataTreasury, which sued more than two dozen banks
in 2006. The company was seeking more than $1 billion in damages
from the industry for infringing patents related to the imaging,
transmission and storage of checks in a central repository.  The only case to go to trial, against  U.S. Bancorp  and
Viewpointe, resulted in a $27 million verdict. U.S. District
Judge  David Folsom  on Sept. 27 added an additional $26.6 million
in damages against U.S. Bancorp because the jury found the
infringement to be intentional. It had been seeking $202
million.  DataTreasury was started by Claudio Ballard, a computer
engineer who said he came up with the idea after talking with a
Long Island, New York, restaurant owner about the storage of
credit-card receipts, the company said.  More than  3.9 billion  check images were shared or exchanged
in 2009, according to Viewpointe, a New York-based company that
processes and stores the digital images for banks.  The U.S. Senate, as part of a failed patent law proposal,
considered in 2008 a provision that would have insulated banks
from paying damages in any patent suit over a “check collection
system.” The proposal was withdrawn after the  Congressional
Budget Office  said the provision would constitute a taking of
property and would cost the government $1 billion in
reimbursements.  The case is DataTreasury Corp. v. Wells Fargo & Co.,
06cv72, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Marshall).  Vestas Seeks Edge on China in Low Wind-Speed Markets  Vestas Wind Systems A/S , the world’s largest wind turbine-
maker, is planning to counter competition from China by
expanding into areas of lower wind speed with more efficient
wind-machine blades.  “It’s about driving into new and lower wind speed markets,
and keeping the technology edge when we’ve got a lot of very
stiff Chinese competition for doing what we used to do,”
Managing Director of Vestas Technology Research and Development
Rob Sauven said in a London interview.  Vestas introduced a new 3-megawatt turbine model suitable
for both land and sea in September. With a rotor diameter of 112
meters (367 feet), about the length of two blades, the machine
is more efficient and can be used in lower wind-speed areas.
This opens up new markets previously thought unprofitable for
commercial wind power, Sauven said.  “We have to do something different,” the Vestas executive
said yesterday. China is now the largest wind power market in
the world in terms of installed capacity, according to Bloomberg
New Energy Finance. The past two years, Chinese turbine
manufacturers have narrowed Vestas’s lead as first in terms of
global wind power  market share , according to the wind industry
group BTM Consult APS.  Lower wind speed areas are prominent in the U.S., Australia
and central and southern Europe, according to Vestas. Larger
rotor diameters make wind machines more efficient by increasing
the area “swept” by the turbine with the result being more
power output.  Vestas’s strategy is investing heavily in technology,
Sauven said. The company is spending 50 million pounds ($80
million) on a new U.K. blade testing center on the Isle of
Wight, due to start early next year. The company’s global
spending on technology is “probably five times that,” he said.
Last year, Vestas spent 1.4 percent of revenue on research and
development, or about 92 million euros ($128 million).  The race is for intellectual property rights, according to
Sauven. Vestas filed 153 applications for wind turbine-related
patents in 2008 and 165 last year.  Overall, the company has filed 787 patents connected to
wind turbines, according to the Intellectual Property Office
database . General Electric Co.  has filed 666,  Siemens AG  has
lodged 242 and Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA 102.  C2 Exchange Asks Federal Court to Rule on Trading System  A new options exchange owned by  CBOE Holdings Inc.  asked a
U.S. court Oct. 8 to rule that the trading system it will use
doesn’t infringe a patent held by the International Securities
Exchange.  C2 Options Exchange, which filed for a “declaratory
judgment” in federal court in Illinois, is an electronic market
that plans to begin trading equity derivatives contracts this
month. CBOE Holdings also owns the Chicago Board Options
Exchange, the largest venue by volume traded.  The move is the latest relating to litigation that began in
November 2006, when New York-based ISE sued CBOE for infringing
a patent it received in 2003. The exchange said CBOE’s so-called
hybrid trading system infringed its patent for an automated
system that matches outstanding orders with incoming buy and
sell requests.  “In filing its complaint against ISE, C2 is seeking to be
proactive in asserting and protecting its rights relating to its
trading platform,” according to an e-mailed statement from C2.
The patent “is the same one that ISE previously asserted
against CBOE’s Hybrid Trading System in a co-pending
litigation.”  Molly McGregor, an ISE spokeswoman, declined to comment.
ISE is owned by Frankfurt-based Eurex.  C2 said in its complaint that it wants to operate the new
exchange “free from any and all charges of infringement.” A
lawyer for ISE told the judge in the pending litigation case on
Sept. 28 that ISE “regarded the C2 exchange to be an
infringement” of its patent, the complaint said.  ISE in 2000 became the first new exchange approved by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission since 1973.  For more patent news, click here.  Legislation  Obama Signs Law to Aid Deaf, Blind With Digital-Age Devices  President Barack Obama signed into law a measure requiring
smartphones, TV programs, cable program guides and devices of
the Internet age to be accessible to Americans with vision or
hearing loss on Oct. 8.  “It sets new standards, so that Americans with
disabilities can take advantage of the technology our economy
depends on,” the president said at a signing ceremony at the
White House, joined by producer, musician and songwriter Stevie
Wonder.  Under the new  law , mobile phone companies are required to
make Web browsers, text messaging and e-mail on smartphones
fully accessible. Cable television companies must make program
guides, emergency broadcast information and selection menus
accessible to people with vision loss.  “This law opens the door to the digital age for the 25
million of us with vision loss, who have been largely shut out
due to inaccessible design,” Paul Schroeder, a vice president
at the New York-based American Foundation for the Blind, said in
an e-mailed statement. An aging baby boomer population likely
means increased rates of vision loss and hearing loss, the group
said.  The bill, S. 3304, known as the Twenty-First Century
Communication and Video Accessibility Act, passed the Senate on
Aug. 5 and the House on Sept. 28.  Trademarks  Madden Converts Betsy Johnson Debt to Mark Ownership  Steven Madden Ltd. , a footwear designer and marketer,
swapped $27.6 million of secured debt for ownership of the
trademarks and intellectual property of 60-store women’s wear
retailer Betsey Johnson LLC.  In a regulatory filing October 8, Madden, based in Long
Island City, New York, gave a license for the marks back to
Johnson in return for royalties. The statement said that Madden
purchased $48.8 million of secured debt owed by Johnson for
$27.6 million. The debt is secured by all of Johnson’s assets.  As part of the arrangement, Madden also acquired 10 percent
of the Class B preferred shares. At the same time, Madden made a
$3 million loan to Johnson. The loan will pay interest at 8
percent and mature in December 2015.  Castanea Partners, the majority owner of Johnson, made a
new capital investment, the statement said.  Unilever Ordered to Stop Selling Andrelon Champagne Shampoo  Unilever , the world’s second-biggest maker of food and
detergent, has to stop selling and recall its Andrelon Champagne
shampoo because the Champagne label is protected under European
Union rules, The Hague district court ruled Oct. 8.  The Rotterdam- and London-based company already stopped
distributing the shampoo, issued as a limited edition of 340,000
bottles in the Netherlands, about a month ago, Fleur van
Bruggen, a spokeswoman for Unilever, said by telephone Friday.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 