-- Sunrise, Picard Buyouts Spur LBOs Funded With Loan, Bond Mix
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s   a n d   I s a b e l l   W i t t
-- 2010-10-11T13:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/sunrise-picard-tap-junk-bonds-to-spur-largest-lbo-financings-since-2007.html
Loans to fund leveraged buyouts in
Europe are being supplemented with bonds for the first time in
three years as private-equity firms seek larger targets.  CVC Capital Partners Ltd. is raising about 2.1 billion
Swiss francs ($2.2 billion) to finance its acquisition of
Sunrise Communications AG in Europe’s largest buyout loan since
LyondellBasell Industries NV borrowed $21 billion in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Lenders to the Zurich-
based phone company are preparing to market the loan this week
after completing a 1.1 billion Swiss-franc bond issue on Oct. 8.  “A vibrant bond market opens the door to bigger and
slightly more aggressive deals,” said  Tanneguy de Carne , co-
head of loan syndication at Societe General SA in London. “This
is an inflection point in the market in Europe. Sponsors are
realizing the bond market is fairly liquid and reliable.”  Private-equity sponsors are taking advantage of low prices
in the bond market to increase financing for buyouts. Almost a
third of the $15 billion of buyout financing this year has
included loans and bonds compared with 17 percent of deals in
2007, according to Bloomberg data. Companies in Europe issued
$79 billion of junk bonds this year, almost double the amount
raised in the same period in 2009, the data show.  A leveraged buyout loan for 5 billion euros ($7 billion) is
“conceivable” in Europe with the help of the bond market,
Barclays Capital analysts said in a Sept. 24 note to clients.
The average LBO loan size rose to $438 million this year from
$347 million, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Large-Scale LBOs’  “Funding for LBOs will increasingly come from the high-
yield bond market,”  Eugene Regis , a London-based credit analyst
at Barclays said in an interview. “At the moment the capacity
for large-scale LBOs using just the European loan market is not
there.”  Investors demand an average yield of 7.62 percent to hold
junk-rated European debt, the lowest since July 2007, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. High-yield, or
junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Junior-ranking mezzanine loans typically used in leveraged
buyouts as an alternative to bonds pay an average 11 percentage
points more than benchmark rates this year, compared with a low
of 8.5 percentage points in the second quarter of 2007,
according to data from Fitch Ratings and Bloomberg. Only $1.3
billion of mezzanine debt has been issued this year, compared
with $8.5 billion in 2007, the data show.  Mezzanine Shelved  “Mezzanine debt is simply too expensive in comparison with
today’s bond market,” said  Charlotte Conlan , head of leveraged
syndication at BNP Paribas SA in London.  Picard Surgeles, a French frozen food retailer acquired by
Lion Capital LLC, raised 300 million euros of bonds on Sept. 22
at a spread of 6.9 percentage points over government benchmarks.
Picard is also raising 655 million euros from senior-ranking
loans to fund the acquisition.  Sunrise’s 300 million Swiss francs of seven-year bonds pay
a coupon of 7 percent, or 5.82 percentage points more than
government debt, Bloomberg data show. The remaining 505 million
euros of eight-year notes pay a coupon of 8.5 percent or 6.52
percentage points more than government debt. The interest
margins for the loans, arranged by BNP Paribas SA, Deutsche Bank
AG and UBS AG, have not yet been disclosed.  “You will see more bonds in LBO deals,” said  Andrew McMurdo , head of European loan syndication at HSBC Holdings Plc.
“Sponsors will recognize that it’s giving them a pretty
attractive cost of capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Eeuwens  in London 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 