-- Swiss Stocks Advance; Syngenta, Kuehne & Nagel Increase, Actelion Retreats
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-11T12:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/swiss-stocks-advance-syngenta-kuehne-nagel-increase-actelion-retreats.html
Swiss equities climbed as the
benchmark  Swiss Market Index  extended its first weekly increase
in a month, and the shares of Syngenta AG and Kuehne & Nagel
International AG advanced.  Syngenta, the world’s largest maker of agricultural
chemicals, rose 2.7 percent. Kuehne & Nagel climbed 2.6 percent
as Nomura Holdings Inc. recommended the shares of the world’s
largest sea-freight forwarder.  Actelion Ltd.  retreated 1.7
percent after jumping 23 percent last week when the Wall Street
Journal reported that Switzerland’s largest biotechnology
company may put itself up for sale.  The Swiss Market Index added 15.2, or 0.2 percent, to
6,378.36 at 2:46 p.m. in Zurich. The gauge has dropped 8.5
percent from this year’s high on April 15 as concern re-emerged
that the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe will crimp economic
growth. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  rose 0.3 percent
today.  “Ahead of the previous two reporting seasons, we were
encountering near unanimous feedback that earnings ‘will be
great.’ We find much more mixed sentiment ahead of third-quarter
numbers and into 2011,”  Mislav Matejka , the head of pan-
European equity strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a
report. “Investors worry that base effects will be difficult
compared with the first half and that the hurdle rate is high,
and think that the clear slowing in macro momentum will be
reflected in more muted earnings delivery.”  Alcoa Inc. unofficially kicked off the earnings season last
week when it became the first major U.S. company to publish its
financial results for the third quarter.  Syngenta Climbs  Syngenta  advanced 2.7 percent to 262.60 Swiss francs.
Barclays Plc initiated coverage of the stock with an “equal
weight” recommendation and a price estimate of 286.20 francs,
saying in a note that “after a volatile 18 months for volumes
and pricing, the crop-protection market should normalize.”  MF Global, which has a “buy” rating on Syngenta, said in
a note that Friday’s U.S. Department of Agriculture update of
crop supply and demand indicated that grain prices will remain
high and there will be “a very positive read-through” for
European and global agricultural stocks.  Kuehne & Nagel  rose 2.6 percent to 119.80 francs. Nomura
lifted its rating to “buy” from “neutral” because of the
“market position, management strength and track record of the
company.” The brokerage cited the recent investor day that laid
out the updated strategy.  Richemont, Swatch Rise  Cie. Financiere Richemont  increased 1.8 percent to 47.75
francs. Switzerland’s largest jewelry maker had its price
estimate increased to 54 francs from 47 francs at Barclays
Capital Plc.  Swatch Group AG  gained 1.1 percent to 365 francs. Chief
Executive Officer  Nick Hayek  told Bloomberg News that the
strength of the Swiss franc won’t prevent the watchmaker from
reaching its target of 6 billion francs ($6.24 billion) in sales
this year.  ABB Ltd., the world’s largest builder of electricity
networks, gained 1.7 percent to 21.31 francs, and Adecco SA, the
world’s largest supplier of temporary workers, gained 0.8
percent to 54.40 francs.  Actelion declined 1.7 percent to 48.50 francs. The biggest
Swiss biotechnology company has formed a committee of board
members to evaluate strategic alternatives, including a sale,
according to a person with first-hand knowledge of the matter.  Piper Jaffray & Co. downgraded the stock to “neutral”
from “overweight.” The brokerage said that the surge in
Actelion’s share price made the company more expensive than
comparable large and medium-sized pharmaceutical companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 