-- U.K. September Housing Gauge Drops to 16-Month Low, RICS Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/u-k-house-price-gauge-drops-to-16-month-low-on-supply-increase-rics-says.html
A U.K.  housing-market  gauge fell to
a 16-month low in September as the number of properties for sale
exceeded demand from homebuyers, the Royal Institution of
Chartered Surveyors said.  The number of real-estate agents and surveyors saying
prices fell exceeded those reporting gains by 36 percentage
points, down from minus 32 points in August, the London-based
group said in an e-mailed report today. That’s in line with the
median forecast of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. A
measure of price expectations fell to minus 41, the lowest since
March 2009.  The housing market is showing signs of faltering as Britons
prepare for the deepest public-spending cuts in a generation.
While the Bank of England kept its benchmark rate at a record
low last week, banks are still rationing credit, and concern the
economic recovery is losing steam is eroding  consumer
confidence .  “The fresh influx of property to the market combined with
a lack of buyers remains the key problem,” RICS spokesman  Ian Perry  said in a statement. “Without sufficient demand, property
prices continue to slip back.”  All 20 regions in the RICS survey had negative price
readings in September. In London, the balance was minus 20. A
measure of homeowners putting their properties on the market
jumped to 22 in September from 12 in August, RICS said. The
gauge of new buyer enquiries rose to minus 2 from minus 17.  “Lack of confidence and lack of  mortgage  funding are now
having a direct impact on house prices and property sales as we
enter the autumn months,” Stephen Gadsby, an estate agent at
Gadsby Orridge in Derby, East Midlands, said in the report.  A report from the British Retail Consortium released today
showed stores posted slower sales growth in September, with
retail sales values rising an annual 0.5 percent, compared with
a 1 percent increase in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  