-- U.K. Economy `Slowed Considerably' in Third Quarter, BCC Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-10-11T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/u-k-economy-needs-forceful-steps-after-third-quarter-slowdown-brc-says.html
The U.K. economy “slowed
considerably” in the third quarter, adding to the case for the
Bank of England to expand stimulus to prevent a renewed
recession, the British Chambers of Commerce said.  Sales at manufacturers and service companies declined in
the three-month period and the employment outlook weakened, the
group said in a survey published today in London.  The BCC last week called on the Bank of England to increase
its emergency  bond-purchase plan  by 50 billion pounds ($79
billion) by the end of the year to aid the recovery, backing a
call by policy maker  Adam Posen  to expand stimulus. While
Britain’s economy grew at the fastest pace in nine years in the
second quarter, recent data indicates the recovery is faltering
ahead of the government’s budget squeeze.  “The marked slowdown” shows the “importance of making
sure the economy is ready for the cuts,” BCC Chief Economist
 David Kern  told reporters at a briefing yesterday. “It is vital
to take forceful steps to sustain the recovery.”  The lobby group pushed back its forecast of when the Bank
of England will raise its  benchmark interest rate  from a record
low of 0.5 percent to at least August from May and lowered its
estimate of economic expansion in the third quarter.  Gross domestic product  probably rose 0.5 percent in the
three months through September, according to the BCC, which sees
the economy growing about 2 percent a year over the next two
years. The economy expanded 1.2 percent in the second quarter.  “It wasn’t realistic to expect growth to continue at the
sort of pace in the second quarter,” Kern said. “The economy
is very probably slowing, but it’s still growing. We’re not
talking about recession in the third quarter.”  Demand Weakens  Measures of orders, sales, exports, employment and
confidence amongst service companies declined in the third
quarter, the BCC said. An index of service-company domestic
sales fell 8 points to 4 in the three months through September,
while export sales dropped 2 points to 11, the survey showed.  Among manufacturers, the index of domestic sales declined
13 points to 17 and export sales decreased 7 points to 24. The
survey covered more than 5,000 companies.  “With the risks of a setback likely to remain serious,”
low interest rates are “essential, but not sufficient,” the
BCC said. “Reducing the threat of a double-dip recession must
be the main policy priority.”  The Office for National Statistics will release third-
quarter GDP data on Oct. 26 and the central bank will publish
its new inflation and growth forecasts on Nov. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  