-- U.S. Renews Lebanon Travel Warning to Citizens, Citing Political Tensions
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-10-11T07:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/u-s-renews-lebanon-travel-warning-to-citizens-citing-political-tensions.html
The U.S. State Department  renewed a
 travel warning  for its nationals considering visits to Lebanon,
and cautioned its citizens residing in the country against risks
caused by political tensions.  “The Department of State continues to urge U.S. citizens
to avoid all travel to Lebanon due to current safety and
security concerns,” it said in a statement posted on its
 website . “U.S. citizens living and working in Lebanon should
understand that they accept risks in remaining and should
carefully consider those risks.”  The latest warning supersedes one issued in March.  The State Department said “the potential for a spontaneous
upsurge in violence is real,” even though the country has
enjoyed periods of relative calm. It said Lebanese authorities
are not able to “guarantee protection for citizens or visitors
to the country should violence erupt suddenly.”  In August a gunfight between Hezbollah and a Sunni Muslim
group left three people dead, the worst clashes since May 2008
when sectarian fighting in the country killed at least 80
people. On Aug. 3, a border shooting between the Lebanese army
and Israel left four people dead, including two Lebanese
soldiers and an Israeli officer.  Tensions have risen in the country in anticipation of an
indictment by a United Nations tribunal investigating the
killing of former Lebanese premier  Rafiq Hariri , which may
implicate members of the Shiite Hezbollah movement and could
lead to an outbreak of violence, according to some Lebanese
politicians. Lebanon has seen repeated outbreaks of sectarian
strife and a 15-year civil war ended in 1990.  U.S. citizens traveling or residing in Lebanon “should
keep a low profile, varying times and routes for all required
travel,” the department said. “In the event that the security
climate in the country worsens, U.S. citizens will be
responsible for arranging their own travel out of Lebanon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 