-- U.S. Needs Faster-Acting Stimulus Such as Tax Cuts, MSI's Ivanovitch Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   B a l a z s   P e n z
-- 2010-10-11T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/u-s-needs-faster-acting-stimulus-such-as-tax-cuts-msi-s-ivanovitch-says.html
The U.S. economy needs faster-acting
stimulus in the form of increased government spending or tax
cuts because the impact of monetary policy takes hold in the
longer term, MSI Global Inc. President  Michael Ivanovitch  said.  “The economy is crying out for help,” Ivanovitch, a
former economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said
in an interview in Budapest yesterday. “We need something that
is faster-acting, to accelerate growth in the United States, and
that clearly is fiscal measures.”  The government’s ability to increase fiscal stimulus will
depend on the composition of the next Congress because a loss of
control by the Democrats would “straightjacket” the party and
the administration of President  Barack Obama , according to
Ivanovitch, whose MSI Global advises on the world economy,
geopolitics and investment strategy.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his fellow
policy makers are debating whether to increase Treasury
purchases to spur the U.S. economy by keeping borrowing costs
low. The economy lost 95,000 jobs in September, the Labor
Department reported on Oct. 8, underscoring the need to
stimulate growth.  The government should increase spending on infrastructure
to boost economic growth, because such projects are easier to
gain support for, Ivanovitch said.  “The Fed has really done all it could,” he said. “In
fact, the economy will be driven by this huge monetary
stimulation, which works, but it works very slowly. With the
fiscal prompt, depending on the elections, things are clear.”  The dollar reached a 15-year low against the yen on
speculation the Federal Reserve will debase the currency by
signaling increased quantitative easing to reduce unemployment.
It traded at 82.03 yen at 1:19 p.m. yesterday in New York,
compared with 81.93 yen on Oct. 8, after earlier in the day
reaching 81.39 yen, the lowest level since April 1995.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Balazs Penz  in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net . 