-- LaHood Says He'll Discuss New Jersey Train-Tunnel `Options' With Christie
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-10-11T21:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/u-s-transport-secretary-to-discuss-halted-new-jersey-tunnel-with-governor.html
Los Angeles and other governments
may go after the $3 billion in federal funds that New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie  will forgo if he stands by his
cancellation of a Hudson River train tunnel, officials
interviewed at a White House briefing said.  U.S. Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  said today he
plans to continue discussions with Christie to salvage the
enterprise originally estimated at $8.7 billion. Two Democrats
who were transportation secretaries for presidents  George W. Bush  and Bill Clinton said Christie, a Republican, was making a
mistake in killing the largest U.S. infrastructure project.  Christie, 48, suspended construction on the tunnel on Sept.
10 amid concerns that the project’s price had risen as much as
$5 billion. He canceled the project outright Oct. 7, and ordered
work already done dismantled. He agreed the next day to give
LaHood two weeks to present options for salvaging it.  “It boggles my mind that a state could refuse that kind of
investment,” Los Angeles Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  said in an
interview after a speech on public-works spending by President
 Barack Obama . “California, particularly Los Angeles, is ready
to fill the void.”  ‘New Jersey’s Loss’  Norman Mineta , a Democrat who was transportation secretary
for former Republican President Bush, called Christie’s decision
short-sighted. Rodney Slater, transportation secretary in
Democrat Clinton’s administration, predicted Christie will
reconsider.  “It’s New Jersey’s loss when something like this
happens,” Mineta, who is now a vice chairman at the Washington
consulting firm Hill & Knowlton, said in an interview at the
White House. “It’s a lost opportunity for them.”  LaHood declined to specify what he might offer Christie to
reconsider a project the governor said isn’t financially viable.  “I believe over the next couple of weeks, he will listen
to the options we will present,” LaHood told reporters at the
White House.  LaHood could relieve financial pressure on the state by
offering federal aid for other projects, or could promise
expedited reviews of the tunnel, Mineta said.  Shoring Things Up  New Jersey, the third-most indebted state in the U.S.
behind California and New York, according to Moody’s Investors
Service, is scheduled to borrow $1.4 billion for transportation
projects Oct. 13 and 14. The bond issue will exhaust the
borrowing capacity of the state’s Transportation Trust Fund to
support new projects after next year, because the entire $895
million dedicated to the fund annually will be needed for debt
service through 2026, bond documents show.  Killing the tunnel would enable Christie to shore up the
trust fund using $1.25 billion in borrowing capacity backed by
New Jersey Turnpike Authority tolls. The capacity is now
earmarked for the Hudson project.  “There are not billions of extra dollars lying around to
cover cost overruns that were not honestly built into the cost
estimates,”  Mike Drewniak , Christie’s spokesman, said today by
e-mail. “It’s that simple.”  The tunnel, the largest mass-transit  project  in the history
of the Federal Transit Administration, according to spokesman
 David Longo , would be an 8.8-mile (14-kilometer) conduit under
the Hudson River to double the number of commuter trains to New
York at peak times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;  Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at   dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  