-- Hungary Takes Control of Alumina Plant, Detains CEO on Sludge
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-11T18:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/hungary-detain-s-aluminum-ceo-freezes-plant-s-assets-after-sludge-spill.html
Hungary will take control of an
alumina plant and detained its chief executive after one of the
company’s waste reservoirs burst, unleashing toxic sludge that
killed at least eight people, premier  Viktor Orban  said.  The government is taking over management of Magyar
Aluminium Zrt. and freezing its assets, Orban told lawmakers
today in Budapest. State oversight will protect jobs, ensure Mal
pays damages and enable authorities to hold accountable those
responsible for the accident, he said.  “We have good reason to suspect that there were some who
were aware of the weakened state of the reservoir wall and chose
to do nothing,” Orban said. “Accountability, in a strict and
fair manner, is in the public’s interest.”  The reservoir burst on Oct. 4, releasing almost as much
hazardous waste as the volume of oil that spilled into the Gulf
of Mexico when a  BP Plc  rig exploded earlier this year. The
sludge, created by the production of alumina, is highly alkaline
and contains toxic materials, including arsenic and lead.  Parliament today approved a bill allowing the government to
take control of private companies in disaster situations,
according to the legislature’s  website .  ‘Public Endangerment’  Police detained  Zoltan Bakonyi , Mal’s chief executive, on
suspicion of “public endangerment causing multiple deaths” and
of causing environmental damage, police spokeswoman Monika Benyi
said by phone. The first crime is punishable by as many as eight
years in prison and the latter by up to three years, she said. A
court has 72 hours to decide on whether to order his arrest.  Bakonyi submitted a confession to authorities and lodged a
complaint because of his detention, Benyi told MTI news service.  Mal spokeswoman Andrea Nemeth didn’t answer repeated calls
to her mobile phone by Bloomberg. The company has “always met
to the letter” all safety requirements for the reservoir, it
said in a statement posted on its website today.  Mal is Hungary’s only alumina refiner and the country’s
second-largest company in the aluminum industry, according to
its website. It employs 1,100 people in and around the Ajka
refinery and exports 80 percent of the alumina it produces,
which accounts for 12 percent of the European market, it said.  Emergency crews are racing to build a dike to contain a
possible new spill from the damaged reservoir, which the
country’s top environmental official says is likely to collapse.  ‘Immense Effort’  “The building of a dam continued with immense effort
overnight and will continue in the course of the day to contain
a possible spill,” in Kolontar, the emergency services agency
said today in a statement on its  website . The agency expects the
dam will be completed tomorrow, MTI reported, citing Gyorgy
Bakos, the head of the Veszprem county emergency services.  A corpse was uncovered under the red sludge today, taking
the death count to eight, MTI said, citing emergency services
spokesman  Tibor Dobson . One of the victims died in hospital on
Oct. 8 and several other bodies were also found in the sludge.  Doctors are treating 50 people, including one in life-
threatening condition and seven with critical injuries,
according to the emergency services agency’s website.  Kolontar, about 160 kilometers (100 miles) southwest of
Budapest, was evacuated on Oct. 9 because of concern the cracked
walls of the reservoir may give way. The government called the
spill the country’s “worst ecological disaster.” The
contamination doesn’t threaten the Danube river or other
countries, authorities said.  ‘Unsalvageable’ Reservoir  The red sludge reservoir, which belongs to Mal, a closely
held company owned by Hungarian individuals, is
“unsalvageable” because of its cracked walls,  Zoltan Illes ,
the state secretary for the environment, said yesterday
according to MTI.  The reservoir released as much as 700,000 cubic meters (25
million cubic feet) of sludge last week. An estimated 4.9
million barrels (27.5 million cubic feet) of crude oil spilled
into the Gulf of Mexico over almost three months after BP’s
Deepwater Horizon rig exploded in April.  The cracks in the reservoir wall have stopped,  Gyorgy Bakondi  the head of the country’s emergency services, said on
the agency’s website. Officials are also probing all similar
structures in Hungary and so far haven’t found any problems, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 