-- Hungary Races to Build Dike Before Possible New Sludge Spill
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-11T08:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/hungary-races-to-build-dike-to-contain-sludge-as-waste-reservoir-weakens.html
Hungarian emergency crews are racing
to finish a dike to contain a possible new spill of toxic red
sludge from a damaged reservoir, which the country’s top
environmental official said was bound to collapse.  “The building of a dam continued with immense effort
overnight and will continue in the course of the day to contain
a possible spill,” in Kolontar, the emergency services agency
said in a statement today, posted on its  website .  The reservoir burst Oct. 4, killing at least seven people
when it released almost as much hazardous waste as the volume of
oil that spilled into the Gulf of Mexico after a BP Plc rig
exploded earlier this year. The sludge, created by the
production of alumina, is highly alkaline and contains toxic
materials, including arsenic and lead.  Kolontar, about 160 kilometers (100 miles) southwest of
Budapest, was evacuated on Oct. 9 because of concern that the
cracked walls of the reservoir may burst again.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will address Parliament at 1
p.m. in Budapest to make “very important announcements,” Deputy
Premier  Zsolt Semjen  told M1 television today. The government
called the spill the country’s “worst ecological disaster.” The
contamination doesn’t threaten the Danube river or other
countries, authorities said.  A one-kilometer (0.6 mile) stretch of the dike has been
built in Kolontar, one of the three towns devastated by the
spill, emergency services spokesman  Tibor Dobson  said today,
according to MTI news service. A further 500 meters will be
added to the protective wall, he said.  The red sludge reservoir, which belongs to  Magyar Aluminium
Zrt. , a closely held company owned by Hungarian private
individuals, is “unsalvageable” because of its cracked walls,
 Zoltan Illes , the state secretary for the environment, said
yesterday according to MTI news service.  The reservoir released as much as 700,000 cubic meters (25
million cubic feet) of sludge last week. An estimated 4.9
million barrels (27.5 million cubic feet) of crude oil spilled
into the Gulf of Mexico over almost three months after BP’s
Deepwater Horizon rig exploded in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 