-- Lachlan Murdoch Cricket Team Among Two Terminated by India Premier League
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-10-11T04:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/murdoch-son-s-cricket-team-among-two-terminated-by-india-league.html
The  Indian Premier League  has
terminated two cricket team franchises, including one promoted
by  Rupert Murdoch ’s son Lachlan, for breaching contract
commitments.  The teams ejected from the league, in which the world’s
best cricketers compete alongside domestic Indian players in a
three-hour version of the game, include King’s XI Punjab and
Murdoch-backed Rajasthan Royals, the Governing Council of the
IPL said in a statement yesterday, adding the decision was
“based on the legal opinions obtained.”  King’s XI said in a statement that it hadn’t violated any
agreement and is “looking forward to presenting facts and
answering any misunderstandings.” Rajasthan won the first
edition of the tournament in 2008. Both teams are backed by
Bollywood actresses.  The league, which next year was scheduled to expand from
eight to 10 teams, has more than doubled its brand value to
$4.13 billion from $2.01 billion in 2009, according to Brand
Finance Plc. Manchester United, a U.K. soccer team, was valued
at $1.87 billion in April 2009, while the Dallas Cowboys of the
U.S. National Football League was worth $1.65 billion, according
to Forbes magazine’s ranking of the world’s most valuable sports
teams.  Owners of other teams include Mukesh Ambani, India’s
richest man and chairman of  Reliance Industries Ltd. , and
billionaire Vijay Mallya, chairman of UB Group.  A franchise based in the southern state of Kerala was told
by the council to “resolve all disputes” and form a joint
venture company before it begins its first season in the
competition.  The league’s appreciation outpaced last year’s 81 percent
gain in India’s benchmark Sensitive Index, the most in 18 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 