-- Venture Funding Shrinks Leaving Scores of `Walking Dead' Firms
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2010-10-11T19:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/venture-funding-shrinks-on-drought-in-technology-initial-public-offerings.html
Stung by a drought in technology
initial public offerings, venture capital investing plunged in
2010, with the number of active firms dropping 47 percent in the
first half from last year, according to Ernst & Young LLP.  The number of U.S. venture firms making at least one
investment a quarter sank to 167 through June from 313 in all of
2009, the accounting firm said this month in a report: “The
Limited Partner Venture Capital Sentiment Survey.”  The decline in IPOs has led to deteriorating returns at
venture-capital companies, making it harder for them to raise
new funds. That’s created a class of “walking dead” firms that
are only working with their existing portfolio companies and
don’t have the cash to make new investments, said Bryan Pearce,
Americas director at Ernst & Young, in Boston.  “It’s going to be harder for startups to raise money
because there are fewer places to go,” said Pearce, who worked
on the survey. For the struggling firms, “it’s a slow and
painful death,” he said.  Pensions and endowments invest in venture-capital funds
with the expectation that in a 10-year period the fund will buy
stakes in startups and profit by helping them go public or get
bought. That strategy, which paid off in the 1990s, has
backfired during the past decade because of the bursting of the
dot-com bubble and the more recent financial crisis.  Of the startups that venture capitalists first invested in
during 2000, 61 percent have gone out of business or are still
private, according to the report, meaning they’ve yielded
nothing to shareholders. Only 2 percent of initial investments
from that year were in companies that have gone public.  IPO Rebound?  IPOs have picked up this year, with 40 venture-backed
companies going public through the first three quarters,
compared with 18 in 2008 and 2009 combined, according to the
 National Venture Capital Association . The total is down from
2007, when there were 86 venture-backed IPOs, and is a fraction
of the 264 in 2000.  Another survey, from law firm  DLA Piper LLP , says that
almost 64 percent of venture capitalists, entrepreneurs and
technology executives don’t expect IPOs to return to where they
were in the late 1990s and early part of 2000. Close to 60
percent of those executives say the venture model is
“permanently altered,” according to the “Technology Leaders
Forecast Survey,” being released by DLA Piper this week.  “If there is a long-term expectation that the IPO market
will not rebound, that means a reduction in the number of
dramatic home runs for venture-capital investors and lower
overall returns,”  Peter Astiz , DLA Piper’s global co-head of
technology, said in the report. “Fewer IPOs also means fewer
small- and medium-size public technology companies, which
traditionally have been the acquirers from many of the
technology company exits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  