-- Wal-Mart to Benefit From Budget-Conscious Shoppers, Survey Shows
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-10-11T12:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/wal-mart-to-benefit-from-budget-conscious-shoppers-survey-shows.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc ., the world’s
largest retailer, will attract a bigger share of holiday
shoppers this year as budget-conscious consumers seek discounts,
according to a survey released today.  The amount of consumers who said they plan to do more
holiday shopping at  Wal-Mart  exceeded the share of those who
expected to do less by 22 percentage points, according to the
survey by Consumer Edge Research in Stamford, Connecticut. The
study canvassed about 2,500 people in the U.S.  Consumers are curbing spending as the unemployment rate
hovers near a 26-year high, prompting stores to boost promotions
to draw shoppers. Other retailers that may profit from shoppers’
caution include Amazon.com Inc.,  EBay  Inc., and  Target Corp .
More shoppers plan to avoid stores owned by  Costco Wholesale
Corp .,  Toys  ’R’ Us Inc., and department stores like Macy’s Inc.  “While consumers are indicating they will be spending
about as much on the holidays this year as they did last year,
they are also indicating they will be increasing their holiday
shopping at the discount retailers, likely to seek out the best
deals possible,” analyst Bill Pecoriello said in the report.  Wal-Mart U.S. stores chief  William Simon  told investors
last month he expects “a very, very competitive and aggressive
holiday selling season.” The executive aims to boost sales at
U.S. stores open at least a year, which have declined for five
consecutive quarters.  The Consumer Edge survey also found that 27 percent of
shoppers plan to spend less over all this year, compared with 13
percent who said they will spend more. Simon told  investors  last
month that he expects shoppers to spend on their children and
not themselves.  “You should plan on socks and underwear for Christmas,”
he said.  The National Retail Federation is forecasting holiday sales
will be the best in four years, and some retailers, such as
department-store chain  Kohl’s Corp. , are planning on stepping up
hiring as a result.  Retail sales in the U.S. probably increased in September
for a third month, easing concern consumer spending will weaken
and endanger the recovery, economists surveyed by Bloomberg said
in advance of the Commerce Department’s Oct. 15 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 