-- Wal-Mart de Mexico Profit Rises 10% in Third Quarter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 2010-10-11T22:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/wal-mart-de-mexico-reports-3rd-qtr-net-income-of-4-25-bln-pesos.html
Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB , Latin
America’s largest retailer, said third-quarter profit rose 10
percent, missing analyst forecasts as higher service costs and
flooding curbed its gains.  Net income  increased to 4.25 billion pesos ($340 million),
from 3.86 billion pesos a year earlier, the company said today
in a statement to Mexico’s stock exchange. Sales rose 27 percent
to 82.3 billion pesos.  Floods in parts of the country hurt sales in September,
Chief Financial Officer  Rafael Matute  said on a conference call
after the report. The Mexico City-based company also paid more
for electricity in the period, he said.  “The third quarter was a challenging quarter for Mexico,”
Matute said.  Analysts  projected adjusted profit of 4.6 billion pesos,
the average of seven estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  In September, same-store sales rose 2.3 percent from a year
earlier. Total sales last month were 25.9 billion pesos, the
company said on Oct. 6.  In February, the retailer acquired stores in Guatemala, El
Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica from U.S. parent
company Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  ‘Growth Avenue’  “Central America is the new growth avenue for Walmex,”
said  Francisco Chevez , an HSBC analyst in New York, speaking in
a telephone interview before the report. He rates the company’s
shares “overweight.”  Wal-Mart de Mexico plans to open stores in 300 more cities
in the region as Mexico’s economy recovers and domestic demand
returns, Chief Executive Officer  Scot Rank  said in August.  The company aims to grow in Latin America because of the
market’s young population and untapped customers, Rank said in
an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Roeder  in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  