-- Wen Fighting Prices Converges With Obama on Yuan: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-12T05:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/wen-converging-with-obama-as-yuan-gains-most-in-five-years-china-credit.html
China, facing the fastest inflation
in almost two years, is allowing the yuan to strengthen the most
since 2005 even as the U.S. and Europe say Premier  Wen Jiabao 
isn’t doing enough to let the currency appreciate.  The yuan’s 1.7 percent advance last month was the most
since July 2005. Non-deliverable forwards show that traders
expect it to climb another 3.6 percent in a year, the most
bullish projection since November 2009. The currency’s 24
percent gain since the start of 1999 is the third-best
performance among 25 emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Wen, 68, is allowing the yuan to strengthen after inflation
reached a 22-month high of 3.5 percent in August. The government
will report Oct. 21 that  consumer prices  climbed 3.6 percent in
September from a year earlier, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Price increases have the
potential to trigger social unrest in China, where the 1.3
billion population gets by on little more than $10 a day on
average, Wen said in March.  “While there are geopolitical and political pressures for
China to appreciate its currency, there are also domestic
reasons, especially on the inflation angle,” said  Robert Minikin , senior foreign-exchange strategist at Standard
Chartered Plc in Hong Kong. The bank raised its end-2011
estimate for the yuan two weeks ago to 6.36 to the dollar from
6.50.  China, the world’s fastest growing major economy, has
limited gains in the yuan to about 2 percent against the dollar
since June.  Obama Criticism  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said last month that the yuan
is kept undervalued to give Chinese exporters an unfair trade
advantage. The House of Representatives passed a measure on Sept.
29 that would let American companies seek duties on imports from
China to compensate for the effect of a weak yuan.  The challenge for China’s policy makers is to allow yuan
appreciation that is fast enough to help curb inflation without
causing a jump in inflows of foreign capital that will add to
record foreign-exchange  reserves  and worsen asset-price bubbles.
Central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said on Oct. 8 that China
prefers appreciation “in a gradual way,” instead of a sharp
revaluation that may hurt the economy.  ‘Careful Review’  Zhou, 62, reiterated last week there would be a “very
careful review” of economic policy to contain inflation and
prevent asset bubbles. The central bank temporarily raised
reserve requirements for six large commercial banks by half a
percentage point, three people with knowledge of the matter said.
The People’s Bank of China declined to comment.  Five-year interest-rate swaps, the fixed rate needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, have gained 25
basis points to 2.99 percent since the start of September,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the 3.28
percent government bond due August 2020 has climbed 18 basis
points in the same period to 3.40 percent, Interbank Funding
Center data showed.  The risk of insuring against a default by the Chinese
government is falling. Five-year  credit-default swaps contracts 
on the nation’s bonds fell 26 percent in the past month, the
biggest drop among more than 80 nations, and ended yesterday at
54 basis points, according to data compiled by CMA and Bloomberg.  Bonds Rise  China’s $1 billion of 4.75 percent bonds due October 2013
rallied in the past month, sending the yield down 20 basis
points to 1.48 percent, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The  extra yield  investors require to hold China’s
debt instead of Treasuries was 88 basis points on Oct. 8,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index.  China Development Bank Corp . sold 2 billion yuan ($300
million) of three-year bonds in Hong Kong that pay a coupon rate
of 10 basis points over the five-day average of the three-month
Shanghai Interbank Offered Rate, according to an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan forwards dropped 0.07
percent to 6.4420 per dollar as of 1:13 p.m. in Hong Kong. The
yuan’s rate in the spot market was little changed at 6.6710,
after yesterday touching 6.6610, the highest since the central
bank unified official and market exchange rates at the end of
1993.  After keeping the exchange rate stable for a decade, China
from July 2005 allowed its currency to strengthen 21 percent
over three years before stopping the ascent as the global
financial crisis curbed exports.  Price Swings  Implied volatility on one-month dollar-yuan options, a
gauge of expected swings in exchange rates, jumped to 5.1
percent on Oct. 7, the highest level since January 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It was as low as 0.45 percent on Jan.
1. One-month options granting the right to buy the yuan against
the dollar cost 87 basis points, or 0.87 percentage point, more
than contracts that allow sales, up from a 12-month low of 20
reached on Sept. 1, the data show.  Sydbank A/S, Denmark’s third-largest bank, said China may
permit as much as 5 percent yuan appreciation against the dollar
in a year to reduce import costs and help contain inflation. The
median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg is for the
currency to climb 4.2 percent to 6.4 by the end of 2011.  ‘Easily Achieved’  “A 4 to 5 percent appreciation can be easily achieved in
one year’s time,”  Hans Bachmann , a money manager in Aabenraa at
Sydbank, which oversees $8.2 billion of assets, said in an
interview. “It can help take some strength away from the export
sector. If the export sector grows too fast, it will also add to
overheating risks.”  The reserve-requirement increase comes after banks were
ordered to set aside more funds three times earlier in the year
to cool a lending boom.  Yuan positions at Chinese lenders resulting from the
central bank’s foreign-currency purchases expanded by 243
billion yuan in August, the biggest increase in four months,
official figures show. China’s benchmark one-year deposit rate
of 2.25 percent exceeds its U.S. equivalent of 0.688 percent.  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange, the nation’s
currency regulator, today  pledged  to crack down on speculative
capital inflows in the second half of this year. The agency also
said the market should shed its “one-way” expectation for yuan
appreciation.  China’s  foreign-exchange reserves  may have surpassed $2.5
trillion in the third quarter. Currency holdings rose about $48
billion, compared with a $7 billion gain in the previous three
months, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg  survey 
of economists before a report due this week.  There are “rising speculative capital inflows as bets on
appreciation grow,” said  Hu Hangyu , a Beijing-based bond
analyst at Citic Securities Co., China’s largest listed
brokerage. “Those who bring hot money into China can make money
by simply depositing their cash at Chinese banks.”  -- Judy Chen ,  Patricia Lui . Editors:  James Regan ,  Sandy Hendry   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 