-- WestLB Seeks $22.3 Million From Nomura in U.K. Trial Over Notes
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-11T17:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/westlb-seeks-22-3-million-from-nomura-in-u-k-trial-over-value-of-notes.html
WestLB AG , the German lender bailed
out during the financial crisis, told a U.K. court today that a
unit of  Nomura Holdings Inc.  should pay $22.3 million for notes
it wrongly said were worthless.  Nomura International last year used a “fraudulent”
bidding procedure to determine the value of shares in an
investment fund after missing a deadline to deliver the notes
that were linked to the shares, instead of paying their cash
value, WestLB argued on the first day of a trial at the High
Court in London.  Nomura had a right to choose the valuation method and the
shares were deemed worthless because several banks expressed no
interest in them, Nomura’s lawyer,  Richard Handyside , said.
“The valuation should be held to be final and binding,”
Handyside said in an Oct. 7 court filing.  WestLB, based in Dusseldorf, claims Nomura should have used
the $22.3 million cash value of the notes established by the
fund’s manager, Mauritian International Trust Co., or Mitco.
Nomura said that valuation wasn’t reliable because it didn’t
outline its methodology or the fund’s underlying assets.  The dispute involves the 2003 purchase of $26 million in
shares of Global Opportunities Fund, which was managed by First
Capital Management Ltd. of Mauritius, and arranged by the firm’s
managing director,  Rafat Rizvi .  ‘Limited Information’  Nomura “had very limited information available to it
concerning the financial position or assets of the fund and the
shares were very illiquid,” at the time of the valuation, the
Tokyo-based bank said in its filing.  Nomura calculated the value by sending bid requests to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ,  Credit Suisse
Group AG ,  Deutsche Bank AG  and the fund’s custodian bank,
 Standard Chartered Plc , court papers show.  The banks weren’t given background information to support
Mitco’s valuation and Nomura referred to the underlying shares
in communications to the banks as “pretty messy,” “tricky”
and “a black box,” according to the filing. The banks didn’t
bid on the shares, and WestLB criticized the way Nomura
described the securities, according to the filing. Nomura claims
the description was “market color.”  Nomura later determined there was no public information
about many of the entities in which the fund invested, and that
one of the entities was fake, according to court filings. The
fund also invested in what is now known as  PT Bank Mutiara , an
Indonesian bank that Rizvi held shares in which received a $730
million bailout in November 2008 and whose management is under
criminal investigation, according to Nomura’s court filing.  Indonesian Warrant  Indonesia issued an arrest warrant for Rizvi, Nomura said
in a court filing.  Rizvi’s lawyer,  Angus McBride  of the firm Kingsley Napley
LLP in London, said today in an interview that he isn’t aware of
an arrest warrant in Indonesia and that an Interpol notice
against his client was being reviewed by the international
police agency at Rizvi’s request. Rizvi believes he’s being
“scapegoated” for the bank’s collapse, McBride said.  “Nomura considers WestLB’s claim to be without
foundation,” a spokeswoman for the bank, who declined to be
identified, said in a telephone interview.  State-owned WestLB is shedding risky businesses and
preparing to sell itself by the end of 2011 under conditions
imposed by the European Commission as part of its bail out.
Germany’s Soffin bank-rescue fund agreed last year to provide
WestLB with 3 billion euros ($4.2 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 