-- Wheat Futures Drop Most in a Week in Chicago as U.S. Supply Concerns Ease
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-10-11T19:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/wheat-futures-drop-most-in-a-week-in-chicago-as-u-s-supply-concerns-ease.html
Wheat prices fell the most in a week
as U.S. supply concerns eased after futures soared the most
allowed by the Chicago Board of Trade in the previous session.  The U.S. may produce 2.224 billion bushels in the year
ending May 31, up 0.3 percent from last year, the government
said Oct. 8. Futures surged 9.1 percent on that date after the
Department of Agriculture slashed its estimate for U.S. corn
production and said global wheat inventories were shrinking.  The USDA report “for wheat wasn’t nearly as bullish as it
was for corn,” said  William Bayer , a partner at PTI Securities
in Chicago. Among corn, soybeans and wheat, the “fundamentals
are probably the weakest” for wheat, he said.  Wheat futures for December delivery dropped 10 cents, or
1.4 percent, to settle at $7.0925 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
CBOT. That marked the biggest drop since Oct. 1. The most-active
contract has soared 48 percent since the end of June after
drought hurt crops in Russia and Eastern Europe.  On Oct. 8, wheat futures jumped 60 cents, then the exchange
limit, after the USDA said global stockpiles will total 174.66
million metric tons on May 31, down 1.8 percent from the
agency’s forecast last month. The department said the U.S. corn
crop may be 3.4 percent smaller than last year.  Rain in the Plains  Rain in some winter-wheat growing areas in the U.S. Great
Plains may boost soil moisture for crops being planted.  “Southwest Nebraska had very good rain over the weekend,”
said  Louise Gartner , the owner of Spectrum Commodities in
Beavercreek, Ohio. Hard-red winter-wheat areas of Kansas and
Oklahoma still need rain, along with soft-red regions in Ohio
and Indiana, she said.  Parts of Oklahoma and Kansas, the largest winter-wheat
producing state, got as much as 0.4 inch (1 centimeter) of rain
in the past week, “not enough to end dry conditions,”  Mike Tannura , the president of T-Storm Weather LLC in Chicago, said
in a report. As much as 30 percent of the U.S. winter-wheat belt
is experiencing “abnormally dry conditions,” he said.  Soft-red winter wheat is used to make cookies and cakes.
Hard red-winter varieties are used in bread.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  