-- World Bank Says Reduced Spending in Latin America Can Help Tame Currencies
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-10-11T19:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/world-bank-says-reduced-spending-in-latin-america-can-help-tame-currencies.html
Latin American governments should
reduce spending to temper  currency  gains and allow central
bankers to pursue lower interest rates, the World Bank´s chief
economist for the region said.  Augusto de la Torre , in an Oct. 9 interview from
Washington, said the region cannot continue on a “consumption
binge forever” that forces central banks to carry the burden of
inflation control and ends up attracting dollar inflows.  “It would be very useful to rein in fiscal spending,
creating space for investment through higher government
savings,” said de la Torre, who was  Ecuador’s central bank
president  from 1993 to 1997. Lower government spending would
“generate the kind of savings that help relieve pressure on
central banks and should help ease some appreciation of the
currency.”  Five of seven Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg strengthened against the dollar this year, led by a
14.5 percent surge by Colombia’s peso. Political leaders in the
region have few incentives to curb spending because upcoming
elections in several countries and inflows of cheap cash make it
more attractive to increase borrowing, de la Torre said.  In Brazil, the budget deficit widened to 3.4 percent of
gross domestic product in the 12 month through August from a
record low 1.23 percent in October 2008, according to central
bank figures. In Peru, the fastest-growing major economy in
South America, external  short term debt  jumped to $6 billion in
June after reaching a two-year low of $4.2 billion in September
2009.  Budget Deficits  “There’s room to borrow and money is available now because
it’s flowing to the region in good conditions,” said de la
Torre, who has a doctorate in economics from the University of
Notre Dame in South Bend, Indiana. “Rich countries have large
fiscal deficits so people wonder: Why do we have to tighten if
everybody is loosening.”  Policy makers in Brazil, Latin America’s biggest economy,
increased this year the benchmark interest rate to 10.75 percent
from a record low 8.75 percent to rein in consumer prices.
Traders expect the bank will have to further raise the overnight
rate next year to keep inflation in check, according to
Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures.  Policy makers in Chile, who have raised the overnight rate
this year by two percentage points to 2.5 percent, are expected
to increase borrowing costs by at least another 25 basis points
when they meet Oct. 14, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey 17 economists.  Latin American countries may grow an average 5.4 percent
this year while a swing from risk aversion to risk appetite is
boosting capital inflows to emerging markets, helping strengthen
their currencies, the World Bank said in a report last week.  Advanced economies’ growth will slow to 2.2 percent next
year, from 2.7 percent this year, while emerging markets are
expected to grow 7.1 percent this year and 6.4 percent next
year, the International Monetary Fund said Oct. 6.  “Whether you’re on the left or the right, you don’t want
to create overvalued currencies,” de la Torre said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  