-- Yahoo CEO Bartz Among Most Overpaid in S&P 500, Proxy Advisory Firm Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-10-11T23:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/yahoo-s-bartz-is-among-most-overpaid-executives-proxy-advisory-firm-says.html
Yahoo! Inc.  Chief Executive Officer
 Carol Bartz  topped a list of executives who are paid too much
for running underperforming companies, according to a report by
proxy advisory firm Glass Lewis & Co.  Bartz, who joined the company in early 2009, received $39
million last year, according to Glass Lewis, which is based in
San Francisco. That was the highest compensation among
executives at 25 overpaying companies in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index, Glass Lewis said today.  To determine whether the company is paying too much, Glass
Lewis weighs metrics including stock price, operating cash flow
and growth in per-share earnings. Much of Bartz’s compensation
included options to purchase stock at prearranged prices in the
event the company meets certain targets. The executive aims to
combat rising competition from Facebook Inc. and Google Inc. and
reverse the slump that’s left sales little changed on her watch.  “Bartz represents a problem we find at many other firms
with poor pay-for-performance grades: excessive compensation
awarded to executives to encourage them to join or remain with a
company,” the report said.  Dana Lengkeek , a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo, said most of Bartz’s compensation was in stock
options that Bartz could not “take home.” Bartz will be able to
exercise options on 5 million shares if certain conditions are
met, and they cannot be sold until 2013, except under certain
circumstances, such as a change in control at the company.  Abercrombie, Nabors  “This was part of her joining back in 2009 and should not
be looked at as an annual salary,” Lengkeek said.  The next-highest paid executives whose companies made the
top 25 are Abercrombie & Fitch Co. CEO  Michael Jeffries , with
$38.5 million in total compensation, and Nabors Industries Ltd.
CEO  Eugene Isenberg , whose compensation totaled $38.2 million,
according to Glass Lewis.  Representatives of Abercrombie & Fitch and Nabors didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment, left after business
hours.  The 25 companies that overpay executives gave their top
five leaders $34.3 million in average compensation, compared
with $23.7 million for all of the S&P 500, the report said.  Apple Inc. CEO  Steve Jobs  was the lowest-paid CEO in the
group of most underpaid executives. Jobs earned an annual salary
of $1 last year.  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale, California, reports third-
quarter financial results Oct. 19. It had second-quarter sales
of $1.13 billion, excluding revenue passed on to partner sites,
short of the $1.16 billion average of projections compiled by
Bloomberg. Total sales rose 1.4 percent to $1.6 billion last
quarter, from $1.58 billion at the end of Bartz’s first quarter.  Yahoo slipped 8 cents to $14.41 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have fallen 14 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 