-- Yuan Forwards Surge to Strongest in Two Years on Demands of Trade Partners
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-11T10:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/yuan-forwards-surge-to-strongest-in-two-years-on-demands-of-trade-partners.html
Yuan forwards surged to the
strongest level in more than two years on speculation China’s
government will allow appreciation to head off the threat of
trade sanctions in the U.S. and Europe.  The central bank set the daily reference rate at a record
high for a second day after global finance chiefs at the
 International Monetary Fund  annual meeting last week warned a
race to weaker exchange rates in countries from China to Brazil
risks hurting the world economy. The U.S. Dollar  Index  traded on
ICE futures in New York, which tracks the currency against those
of six trading partners, slipped to an eight-month low.  “If China doesn’t let the yuan rise at a time when the
dollar is so weak in overseas markets, there will be more
pressure,” said  Liu Dongliang , a Shenzhen-based analyst at
China Merchants Bank Co., the country’s sixth-largest lender by
market value.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards jumped 0.8 percent to
6.4390 per dollar as of 5:30 p.m. in Hong Kong, reflecting bets
the currency will strengthen 3.6 percent from the spot rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts touched
6.4368, the highest level since July 2008.  The yuan’s rate in the spot market was little changed at
6.6678 and touched 6.6610, the highest since the central bank
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  China’s central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  resisted calls
from the U.S. and Europe for faster appreciation of the yuan,
saying on Oct. 8 his country aims to avoid any “shock therapy”
in its currency reform.  “China’s exchange-rate policy is, based on the market
supply and demand relationship, to move gradually to the
equilibrium point,” said Zhou in Washington during a panel
hosted by the British Broadcasting Corp. “We do that in a
gradual way, rather than a shock therapy.”  The reference rate for yuan trading was fixed at 6.6732,
the strongest level since a dollar peg was scrapped in July 2005  -- Judy Chen . Editors:  Andrew Janes ,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 