-- China Currency Reserves May Hit $2.5 Trillion, Stoking Tensions
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-11T03:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-11/yuan-critics-may-get-ammunition-as-analysts-see-2-5-trillion-reserves.html
China’s  foreign-exchange reserves ,
the world’s largest, may have climbed to a record $2.5 trillion,
adding fuel to complaints that the nation’s currency
intervention is undermining the global economic recovery.  Currency holdings rose about $48 billion in the third
quarter, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
 survey  of eight economists. That would compare with a $7 billion
gain in the previous three months, the smallest increase in 11
years. The central bank may release the number this week.  “The massive build-up of the foreign-exchange assets would
only give more ammunition to those China critics who call for a
rapid appreciation of the yuan,” said  Tom Orlik , a Beijing-based
analyst for Stone & McCarthy Research Associates, who formerly
worked for the U.K. Treasury.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  says a stronger
yuan would stimulate demand in China, which replaced Japan in
the second quarter as the world’s second-largest economy.
Inflows of cash threaten to worsen inflation and asset-bubble
risks in the Chinese economy and central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said Oct. 8 that the nation needs to avoid the “shock
therapy” of excessive appreciation.  China’s currency reserves topped $2 trillion in the first
half of last year.  Yuan forwards  surged to the strongest level in more than
two years today on speculation the government will allow the
currency to appreciate to meet the demands of trading partners.  Currency Swings  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards jumped 0.7 percent to
6.4492 per dollar as of 9:58 a.m. in Hong Kong, reflecting bets
the currency will strengthen 3.5 percent from the spot rate.  Weakness in the greenback, especially against the euro,
probably accounted for the bulk of the third-quarter increase in
the reserves by increasing the dollar value of assets held in
other currencies, Standard Chartered Plc. said in an e-mail.
That is a reversal from the second quarter, when the euro
slumped against the dollar.  China’s  trade surplus  and inflows of cash from foreign
direct investment also drive up the reserves.  Chinese banks may have extended 500 billion yuan ($75
billion) in new local-currency  loans  last month, a Bloomberg
News  survey  of 18 economists showed. That would compare with 545
billion yuan in August. M2, the broadest measure of money supply,
may have climbed 18.9 percent in September from a year earlier,
according to economists’ median estimate.  Those numbers will be released in the same statement from
the central bank.  Exchange rates dominated the annual meeting of the
International Monetary Fund in Washington amid concern that
nations are relying on cheaper currencies to aid growth, risking
trade wars. China was accused of undervaluing the yuan, while
low  interest rates  in the U.S. and other rich nations were
blamed for flooding emerging markets with capital.  Finance ministers and central bankers pledged to improve
cooperation, yet did little to show how they would alter their
ways beyond agreeing to let the IMF to study the matter.  -- Paul Panckhurst ,  Zheng Lifei ,  Jay Wang ,  Judy Chen . Editors:
Paul Panckhurst,  Sandy Hendry .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lifei Zheng in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  