-- Gazprom to Sell Shares in Coal Unit After Acquisition
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2008-02-26T12:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-26/gazprom-to-sell-shares-in-coal-unit-after-acquisition-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom,  Russia 's natural-gas
exporter, plans to hold an initial public offering of its new
coal and power unit after acquiring Siberian Coal Energy Co.  
 Gazprom will acquire 50 percent plus one share in the
country's biggest coal producer by September, the Moscow-based
companies said in a joint e-mailed statement today. State-run
Gazprom will pay for the shares with its electricity assets.  
 The transaction will create the country's largest
electricity producer, after the breakup of OAO Unified Energy
System in June, and the biggest coal supplier to power stations.
The Gazprom unit will have 30,500 megawatts of capacity in the 10
time zones between  Finland  and Russia's easternmost border with
 China . Deloitte & Touche LLP valued the new company at about $16
billion,  Kommersant  newspaper reported Nov. 28.  
 Gazprom, supplier of a quarter of Europe's gas, is moving
into coal as the government seeks to reduce the country's
reliance on gas for power generation. The government wants coal
to account for 37 percent of power production by 2015, up from 27
percent last year, freeing up more gas for export.  
 ``The IPO will happen in the near term,'' Siberian Coal
spokesman Alexei Naumenko said by phone today, declining to
elaborate.  
 Vladimir Rashevsky, chief executive officer of Siberian
Coal, also known as SUEK, will manage the new company, according
to today's statement. Gazprom will hold 5 of 11 board seats, SUEK
will have four and two directors will be independent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Walters in Moscow or 
 gwalters1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        