-- Reliant Energy Posts Profit After Power Prices Rise
-- Edward Klump
-- 2008-02-26T21:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-26/reliant-energy-posts-profit-after-power-prices-rise-update4-.html

          
          
             Reliant Energy Inc., owner of power
plants in nine U.S. states, posted fourth-quarter profit of $227
million after electricity prices rose and energy contracts
increased in value. The company's shares had their biggest gain
in more than four years.  
 Net income was 64 cents a share, compared with a loss of
$53.7 million, or 17 cents a share, a year earlier, Houston-
based Reliant said today in a statement. Revenue climbed 13
percent to $2.65 billion.  
 Spot prices in the PJM power market, the largest in the
U.S., averaged $70.08 per megawatt-hour in the fourth quarter,
up 38 percent from a year earlier. Reliant also benefited from a
$277 million gain in its valuation of hedging contracts that
lock in fuel and power prices.  
 ``Power prices are incredibly volatile, and they're going
to be subject to some of those whims,'' said Gordon Howald, an
analyst with Calyon Securities in New York who has a ``buy''
rating on Reliant shares and doesn't own any.  
 Howald said per-share profit excluding such items as the
hedging gain was in line with analyst  estimates . The average
earnings estimate from 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 7
cents a share, excluding one-time items.  
 Reliant rose $1.76, or 7.7 percent, to $24.50 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The gain was Reliant's biggest
since November 2003.  
 Contract Snapshot  
 Reliant records costs and gains, called mark to market, to
make its valuation of energy contracts reflect market prices for
power and the fuel used in producing it.  
 The adjustments, which resulted in a $49 million gain in
2006's fourth quarter, represent a snapshot of what losses or
gains would be if the energy contracts were immediately
liquidated. Reliant locks in profits through agreements that fix
fuel costs and the prices the company will be paid for power.  
 Reliant cut its 2008 forecast for earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization to $1.24 billion from $1.31
billion. The revision stems mostly from rising coal prices,
Reliant spokeswoman Pat Hammond said.  
 The measure, called ``open EBITDA,'' doesn't include such
items as hedging gains and losses. The 2009 forecast remains at
$1.49 billion, and Reliant forecast 2010 open EBITDA of $1.6
billion.  
 Open EBITDA in the fourth quarter more than doubled to $198
million from $74 million a year earlier.  
 History of Losses  
 The company had losses of more than $2.5 billion from 2002
to 2006. Mark Jacobs replaced Joel Staff as Reliant's chief
executive officer in May after his predecessor sold assets and
cut jobs to reduce costs and debt.  
 The company reiterated its intention to examine possible
uses for capital such as acquisitions, stock buybacks, dividends
and plant expansions.  
 ``We're not predisposed to any one of those alternatives,''
Jacobs told investors and analysts today on a conference call.
``We're going to look at what will create the most shareholder
value in terms of those different levers, and that's going to
change over time.''  
 Fourth-quarter earnings from plants that sell power in
wholesale markets rose 51 percent to $134 million, Reliant said.
Profit from retail power sales jumped to $104 million from $36
million.  
 The company's residential and small business customer count
fell 4.5 percent from a year earlier to 1.72 million. Reliant
said it plans to begin selling power to commercial and
industrial customers in New York this year.  
 Reliant has about 16,000 megawatts of generating capacity.
Less than 6 percent of that is in  Texas , where Reliant is among
the largest power retailers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Cox at 
 acox3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        