-- Taiwan Local Elections Show Chen Still Has Support
-- Yu-huay Sun
-- 2006-12-09T16:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-12-09/taiwan-local-elections-show-chen-still-has-support-update3-.html

          
          
             Taiwan 's voters delivered a split
verdict in two important local elections today, electing a
candidate of the ruling  Democratic Progressive Party  as mayor of
the southern city of Kaohsiung, and choosing an opposition
candidate as mayor of Taipei, the island's capital.  
 In Kaohsiung, Chen Chu, a former chairwoman of the cabinet's
Council of Labor Affairs, won. In Taipei, Nationalist Hau Lung-bin defeated former Premier Frank Hsieh of the DPP and  James Soong , a former leader of the Nationalists, or KMT.  
 The DPP's victory in Kaohsiung showed that President Chen Shui-bian and his party still have support in the country's south
even after a recent series of corruption scandals.  
 Chen is under pressure to resign over allegations that he
and his wife, Wu Shu-chen, stole NT$14.8 million ($450,000) from
a presidential fund. Wu was charged Nov. 3 with fraud, and
prosecutors said they had enough evidence to charge Chen, who is
immune from prosecution as a serving president. Chen and Wu deny
wrongdoing and Chen has pledged to quit if his wife is convicted.  
 ``The DPP can breathe more easily now,'' said Andrew Yang,
secretary general of the Chinese Council of Advanced Policy
Studies in Taipei, in a phone interview. ``Undecided voters cast
their ballots in favor of Chen Chu. Chen Shui-bian's stumping for
her in the last week worked.''  
 Relief for Chen  
 Yang said the narrow margin of victory in Kaohsiung showed
that the DPP's support is fragile, but winning such an important
race could reduce pressure on the president to resign. ``Chen
won't step down,'' he said.  
 In Kaohsiung, Chen of the DPP beat Huang Jun-ying of the KMT
by 49.41 percent to 49.27 percent, while in Taipei, the KMT's Hau
beat Hsieh of the DPP by 53.81 percent to 40.89 percent, the
Central Election Commission said on its Web site.  
 Several KMT members of parliament, led by Lo Shih-hsiung,
late today asked the Kaohsiung prosecutor to order a recount of
the election in the city, citing the narrow margin. In an
interview shown on television networks, they also said they will
file a lawsuit seeking to annul the result.  
 The KMT also has suffered from a recent corruption scandal,
which was emphasized by the ruling party during the campaign. Ma Ying-jeou, Taipei's incumbent mayor and the KMT chairman, was
questioned by prosecutors Nov. 23 for the second time over
allegations he misused his office's special expense funds. Ma has
denied the allegations and said Nov. 12 the investigation should
find him innocent.  
 Gauge of Sentiment  
 The mayoral elections are considered a gauge of voter
sentiment leading up to the next presidential election, which
will be held in March 2008. The DPP won the last two presidential
elections, in 2004 and 2000, by small margins.  
 The DPP victory in Kaohsiung was a surprise: polls taken as
late as Dec. 4 show the Nationalists leading in both cities. On
Friday, Chen Chu accused her KMT challenger, Huang, of giving
allowances to voters.  
 President Chen, after voting in Taipei today, told
reporters: ``In Kaohsiung, someone is suspected of buying votes.
I call for prosecutors to investigate this.''  
 The KMT protested. ``The KMT strongly condemns President
Chen's comment trying to influence the election results,'' KMT
spokesman Huang Yu-cheng said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Both cities elected new mayors because the incumbents have
finished their second terms and can't run again.  
 Taipei Mayor-elect Hau, 53, is a former minister of the
cabinet's Environmental Protection Administration.  
 Heavyweight Losers  
 The losing candidates in Taipei were political heavyweights
Hsieh and Soong. Hsieh, 60, resigned as premier on Jan. 17, the
fourth leader in five years to quit the post, a month after the
ruling party suffered a local election defeat because of strained
ties with  China .  
 Soong, a former secretary general of the KMT, formed his
People First Party in 2000 after losing an independent bid for
the presidency. After conceding his loss today, Soong told
reporters: ``I'll formally retreat from the political arena.''  
 Voters elected 52 new city councilors for Taipei: 24 from
the KMT, 18 from the DPP, two from the PFP, two from the Taiwan
Solidarity Union and six from smaller parties or independent
candidates.  
 Voters also elected 44 new councilors for Kaohsiung: 17 from
the KMT, 15 from the DPP, four from the PFP, one from the Taiwan
Solidarity Union, and seven independent candidates.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
James Peng in Taipei at 
 jpeng7@bloomberg.net 
Yu-huay Sun in Taipei 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Millard in Singapore at 
 mmillard2@bloomberg.net 
Anthony Spaeth 
 aspaeth@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        