-- Global shifts in spotlight as finance chiefs meet
-- By  Lesley Wroughton
-- Wed Oct 17, 2007 3:25pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/10/17/businesspro-imf-leaders-dc-idUSN1646033320071017

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - New leaders are picking up the reins 
of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund at a time 
when the global economy is relying more on emerging economies 
for growth and old powers struggle with a U.S.-born housing 
slowdown. 

  The fall meetings of the IMF and World Bank in Washington 
this weekend is a rare occasion for world finance and 
development leaders to discuss the state of the world economy 
and issues facing the sister institutions.  It will be the first time since turmoil in credit markets 
began in August that the leaders will have the opportunity to 
take stock of its scale and effects on the global economy.  At the International Monetary Fund, former French finance 
minister Dominique Strauss-Kahn is waiting in the wings to take 
over from IMF Managing Director Rodrigo Rato at the end of 
October, keeping Europeans in top positions at the fund.  Although Rato will host the IMF meeting, Strauss-Kahn will 
have the opportunity to immerse himself in IMF issues.  Tensions have run high between the United States and Europe 
just ahead of the weekend, particularly over a soaring euro, 
while Washington keeps pressure on Beijing to increase the 
value of China's renminbi.  While the IMF still believes the dollar's decline is a 
healthy economic rebalancing and should fall further, Europeans 
have complained the euro's highs are affecting exports.  Tensions over currencies come as the United States and 
other industrial countries push for a bigger role for the IMF 
in monitoring an orderly operation of global currencies and 
economic imbalances.  With China and India firmly leading the global expansion 
and growth in the rest of the emerging world staying strong, 
developing countries are expected to up their calls for more 
say in the decisions of the institutions to reflect the shift 
in the global economy.  Despite year-long efforts by members to agree on ways to 
carve a bigger share for developing countries in the IMF there 
has been little consensus over how to do it, with some large 
shareholders, especially in Europe, fearing they will loose too 
much power.  Much of the resistance, according to developing countries, 
has come from France and Britain, whose rankings could drop 
below China's in changes to the IMF voting structure.  China's economy is already regarded as the fourth largest 
in the world and still growing, creating anxiety among 
developed countries over Beijing's growing might.  Discussions of the IMF's membership this weekend will 
consider at least two proposals for a new formula to rearrange 
voting power, including one by Canada and another by Australia 
and South Africa.  However, countries are still far from an agreement, 
although Rato said on Monday positions were narrowing.  An initial boost to the voting power of Turkey, Mexico, 
China and South Korea during the last IMF meetings in Singapore 
was sold as a downpayment to further increases over a second 
phase of reforms.  But some developing countries believe that Europe's 
resistance could delay change beyond a 2008 deadline.
  BOOSTING THE WORLD BANK  It will be the first meetings for new World Bank President 
Robert Zoellick, who took over in July from Paul Wolfowitz 
whose approval of a high-paying promotion for his companion 
clouded the April meetings and eventually forced him out.  Zoellick has tried to move the bank beyond damage cause by 
Wolfowitz's leadership battles with the bank's shareholders and 
staff by focusing on practical changes that would energize the 
bank around its core mission of reducing global poverty.  In three months, Zoellick has cut the bank's lending rates 
to emerging economies, seeking to encourage borrowing again 
from a group of around 80 countries whose repayments on their 
bank loans is a revenue booster.  He has also challenged donor countries to increase aid to 
the bank's poorest countries by doubling to $3.5 billion the 
bank's own contributions to a fund that lends to impoverished 
nations.  Negotiations currently under way between the bank and donor 
countries to replenish the fund, the International Development 
Association, are critical to the institution's ability to lend 
and expand its work to tackle new issues affecting development 
in poor countries, such as climate change.  (Reporting by Lesley Wroughton; editing by  Andrea Ricci ; 
email: lesley.wroughton@reuters.com; Washington Newsroom 
+1-202-898-8317))