-- Total to Book 25% of Reserves at New Gazprom Field
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2007-07-13T16:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-07-13/total-to-book-25-of-reserves-at-new-gazprom-field-update2-.html

          
          
             Total SA (FP) , Europe's third-largest oil
company, said it will be able to book 25 percent of reserves at
an Arctic natural-gas field it plans to develop with Russian gas
company OAO Gazprom.  
 Total Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie and
acting Gazprom CEO Alexander Ananenkov signed an agreement today
in Moscow giving the French company a 25 percent stake in the
operating company of the Shtokman field, which may contain three
times as much gas as Europe consumed last year.  
 ``We can book reserves as far as we're taking risks,'' de
Margerie told reporters after the signing ceremony. Since Total
has a 25 percent stake in the operating company, it should be
able to book the same proportion of reserves, he said. The
reserves will qualify under U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission rules, Total spokeswoman Patricia Marie later said by
phone from Paris.  
 State-run Gazprom, which already supplies a quarter of
Europe's gas, expects Shtokman to revive stagnating output.
Gazprom initially plans to tap Shtokman to fill a planned
pipeline to Germany under the  Baltic Sea  and later use it to
become a major supplier of LNG, or liquefied natural gas, to
overseas markets like the U.S.  
 The first phase of the project will cost ``more than $15
billion,'' de Margerie said today. AFP later cited de Margerie as
saying Total's share of investment will amount to ``$4 to $5
billion.'' Marie couldn't immediately confirm that number.  
 `Bottom Line'  
 ``Gazprom is in charge of marketing the gas through pipes or
LNG,'' de Margerie said. ``We'll be in charge, in this company
which will be created, for developing, producing and financing
the field.''  
 The two companies issued no new details about their
cooperation at Shtokman, which was announced by Gazprom
yesterday.  
 ``The biggest question is: how will Total be paid? That's
the bottom line, and we don't have any information about this,''
Antoine Leurent, a Paris-based analyst at KBC Securities, said by
telephone.  
 Gazprom originally planned to pick one or more partners to
share ownership of the Shtokman license from a shortlist
including Total,  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
 ConocoPhillips. (COP)  Last year Gazprom scrapped that plan and said it
would accept international partners only as operators of the
field.  
 `Trump Cards'  
 ``The owner of the license is Gazprom,'' de Margerie said.
``We can live with that.''  
 The agreement signed today allows for additional partners to
take up to 24 percent in the operating company, with Gazprom
retaining at least 51 percent.  
 Gazprom's announcement yesterday followed a phone
conversation between French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and his
Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin the day before. The two men
discussed energy cooperation and other issues, the Kremlin said
on its Web site.  
 ``I think Sarkozy used some political trump cards,'' said
Vladimir Matias, managing partner of Asset Capital Partners in
Moscow. ``Now watch the news to see the position of  France  in
disagreements between the U.S. and  Russia .''  
 U.S. plans for a missile shield in eastern Europe have
pushed relations with Russia to their lowest point since the  Cold
War .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucian Kim in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        