-- Brazil Stocks Gain on Credit Outlook, Earnings; Bolsa Rises
-- William Freebairn
-- 2008-02-22T22:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-22/brazil-stocks-gain-on-credit-outlook-earnings-bolsa-rises.html

          
          
             Brazil 's main stock index posted its
third weekly gain in four weeks on investor optimism that the
South American country's strengthening credit outlook will boost
profits.  
 Lojas Renner SA rose the most in more than two years after
its fourth-quarter earnings beat some analysts' estimates.
 Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes  surged
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Brazilian homebuilders are
``attractive.''  
 The  Bovespa index  of the most-traded shares on the Sao
Paulo exchange climbed 816.55 today, or 1.3 percent, to
64,608.78, the highest in two months. Shares in Brazil and
 Mexico  rallied in the final 30 minutes of trading after CNBC
reported bond insurer Ambac Financial Group Inc. may be rescued
by a group of banks next week.  
 Brazil's central bank this week said  Latin America 's
largest country became a net creditor for the first time in
January. This puts Brazil closer to investment grade status,
said Standard & Poor's analyst Lisa Schineller in a Bloomberg TV
interview today.  
 ``I think there are some big players buying on anticipation
of this,'' said Saulo Sabba, who helps manage Maxima
Participacoes FI em Acoes fund, the best performer among Brazil-
based equity and hedge funds last year. ``If the U.S. were doing
a little better we would definitely be at a record.''  
 The Bovespa rose 1.3 percent and Mexico's Bolsa index rose
1.1 percent in the final half hour of trading after the Ambac
report. The Bovespa had a 5.5 percent weekly gain, the third in
four weeks.  
 The Bovespa has fallen 1.8 percent from its Dec. 6 record
on concern that the subprime mortgage losses in the U.S. will
crimp credit and slow world growth.  
 Retailer's Earnings  
 Lojas Renner gained 8.9 percent to 33.60 reais, the biggest
gain since July 2006. The retailer said after markets closed
yesterday that fourth-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization, or Ebitda, rose 45 percent to
101.5 million reais. The results ``handsomely'' beat forecasts
by Itau Corretora, analyst Ricardo Fernandez wrote in a note
titled ``Against All Odds-Just Buy It.''  
 Cyrela climbed 4.5 percent to 26.50 reais. Goldman Sachs
analyst Jason B. Mollin rated Cyrela a ``buy,'' citing ``pent-up
demand for homes'' in Brazil.  
 Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst Kenneth Bruce said today that
the worst housing market in a quarter century will stifle
earnings at  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the largest sources of
money for U.S. home loans, through 2011.  
 Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA dropped the most on the
Bovespa index after Deutsche Bank downgraded the Brazilian
steelmaker, saying its potential for further gains is limited
after a 27 percent surge for the year to date.  
 CSN, Brazil's third-largest steelmaker, fell 2.72 reais, or
3.9 percent, to 67.28 reais.  
 `Appropriately Valued'  
 ``We think its shares are now appropriately valued and we
see fewer near-term catalysts,'' wrote Deutsche Bank analysts
including  David Martin  in a note to clients today.  
 Mexico's  Bolsa index  rose rose 167.47, or 0.6 percent, to
29,528.79 today. The weekly gain of 2.7 percent was the fourth
in five weeks.  
 The market had fallen earlier in the day after a report
yesterday showed manufacturing in the Philadelphia region of the
U.S. unexpectedly contracted in January on weakening orders,
signaling the U.S. is on the brink of recession. Mexico sells 80
percent of its exports to the U.S.  
 The Bolsa's gain was led by Industrias Penoles SAB, the
world's largest silver producer, as prices of the metal
advanced. Penoles rose 4.2 percent to 289.31 pesos, the highest
since Dec. 7.  
 Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO) , the world's biggest Spanish-language
broadcaster, rose 0.6 percent after it said fourth-quarter net
income rose 17 percent, more than analysts expected.  
 Elsewhere in Latin America, the main indexes in  Chile , and
Peru fell while those in Colombia and  Venezuela  were little
changed.  Argentina 's Merval index rose. The  MSCI EM Latin
America (MXLA)  index rose 0.9 percent to 4,501.22, for a weekly gain of
6.2 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
William Freebairn in Mexico City at 
 wfreebairn@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at  at
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        