-- `Superficial' Fashion Leads Uniqlo Billionaire Astray From Drucker Roots
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2010-12-06T07:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/-superficial-fashion-leads-uniqlo-billionaire-astray-from-drucker-roots.html
Tadashi Yanai , Japan’s richest man,
used advice from management guru  Peter Drucker  to build his
Uniqlo clothing empire. To pull out of a slump that’s hammered
profits and shares, the billionaire is revisiting the lessons.  Yanai, 61, founder and president of  Fast Retailing Co. ,
built his estimated $9.2 billion fortune over 26 years, turning
his father’s tailor shops into the  Uniqlo  chain of low-priced
casual wear to become Asia’s biggest clothing retailer. Yanai
says his success was inspired by Drucker’s management strategies
and the idea of “customer creation” with a product that
creates demand.  This year, something went wrong with Yanai’s strategy. Fast
Retailing’s  shares  have plunged 26 percent in 2010, sales at
stores open more than a year fell 25 percent in September,
continuing to slide through November, and the company  forecast 
its first  profit  decline in four years for the fiscal year
ending in August.  “ Fast Retailing  lost focus on its core  products ,” said
 Mikihiko Yamato , an analyst at Japaninvest KK in Tokyo. “The
company tilted to fashion items that didn’t sell well.”  Second-half Uniqlo sales through August fell 6.4 percent in
Japan, where Yamaguchi-based  Fast Retailing  gets more than 80
percent of  revenue . The company’s  shares  declined 0.7 percent to
12,900 yen at the 3 p.m. close of trading in Tokyo.  Basic Designs  Meanwhile, competitors such as the Zara brand from Spain’s
 Inditex SA  and Sweden’s  Hennes & Mauritz AB  added stores. Zara
had 54 Japan outlets in July after opening its first in the
country in 1998.  H&M  entered Japan’s market in 2008 and had 10
outlets in November.  Trying to match Zara and  H&M  may have been what took Uniqlo
off track, analysts and investors said.  “The company followed trendy makers like Zara,” said
Yamato at Japaninvest. “Uniqlo needs some fashion items, but
the company’s strength is to mass-purchase fabrics to make large
quantities of functional clothing,” said Yamato, who  recommends 
buying  Fast Retailing ’s stock.  “The company should stick with its basic designs to
differentiate itself from Zara and H&M,” said  Koichi Ogawa ,
chief portfolio manager at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. in Tokyo.
He declined to comment on his holdings.  Yanai got the message.  Fast Retailing  will focus on
functional designs after “superficial fashion” items eroded
sales, he said at an Oct. 8 press conference in Tokyo.  Like a Compass  Broadcaster NHK this year published a book titled “My Way
of Management in The Drucker Style,” from interviews with Yanai
on the management consultant’s influence.  “Drucker is not only my management professor, but he is
like the compass to provide a path I should follow,” he said in
the book.  Former General Electric Co. CEO  Jack Welch , Intel Corp.’s
co-founder  Andrew Grove  and  Shoichiro Toyoda  of Toyota Motor
Corp. consulted with Vienna-born Drucker, who died in 2005.  Drucker’s “The Practice of Management” influenced Yanai
“to first think what customers want and provide more value,
rather than what a company wants to sell,” the billionaire
said. He declined to be interviewed for this article.  Masafumi Shoda , head of retail industry research at Nomura
Securities Co., said Yanai has been down and bounced back
before.  Lose the Vegetables  His book “Throw Away Your Success in a Day,” published in
2009, cites his move into vegetable stores in Japan in 2002 and
losing money until he pulled the plug two years later. He took
Uniqlo to the U.K. in 2001, aiming for 50 stores in three years.
He got to 21 outlets before shutting 16 in 2003 to stem losses
and restructure.  “He makes quick decisions to withdraw from a failing
business to avoid more losses,” said  Masamitsu Ohki , a fund
manager at Tokyo-based Stats Investment Management Co., which
holds Fast Retailing shares.  Yanai has also worked a sales floor, selling kitchen items
and men’s clothing at a Jusco supermarket in 1971, according to
his book. He quit Jusco in 1972 to join his father’s tailoring
business, Ogori Shoji. He became president in 1984, when he
opened the first Uniqlo store, known at the time as Unique
Clothing Warehouse.  To his admirers, Yanai’s misses show astuteness, such as in
2007 when he walked away from a bidding war with Dubai
investment firm Istithmar PJSC for Jones Apparel Group Inc.’s
Barneys New York unit.  “We were lucky not to be able to buy Barneys after all,”
as the financial crisis cut luxury demand, Yanai said in an
interview in March.  Now, the World  Even as growth has faltered this year, Yanai has doubled
Fast Retailing’s  sales  in the past five years and targets
sixfold revenue  growth  to 5 trillion yen ($60 billion) by 2020
to overtake  H&M  and  Inditex .  Yanai has said he wants 4,000 stores by 2020, expanding in
overseas markets including China and Southeast Asia. Uniqlo has
outlets in the U.S., Russia and France.  “Yanai should keep pursuing expansion abroad, as Japan is
shrinking and offers little growth,” said Daiwa SB Investments’
Ogawa.  Fast Retailing  will add 44 Uniqlo stores overseas and 36 in
Japan in the 12 months to August, bringing the total to 1,024,
the company said Oct. 8. That’s the same pace of openings as its
last fiscal year.  A hiring plan includes 1,200 overseas store-manager
candidates in the year starting September 2012, compared with
about 300 this fiscal year.  “Opening new stores outside of Japan is important, but
training our employees is even more important,” Yanai told
investors and analysts in October.  Fleece Factor  Besides Drucker, Yanai counts on Fast Retailing’s
partnership with Toray Industries Inc., Japan’s biggest
synthetic fiber maker, for an edge.  The two work as “a virtual company,” Toray Chairman
 Sadayuki Sakakibara  said. “We share information including costs
and technology.”  Toray supplied fabric for Uniqlo’s fleece jackets, its
first hit product. They retailed for 1,900 yen each in 1998,
while similar products from makers such as Patagonia Inc. were
priced at $100, or about four times more.  Uniqlo’s sales of fleece items topped 26 million units in
2000 and remain at about the same level, according to the
company. The retailer aims to boost sales of its best-selling
lightweight Heattech apparel developed with Toray by 40 percent
to 70 million units this fiscal year.  Teaching Toyota  Yanai attracted the attention of  Toyota  as it struggled to
restore customer confidence after recalling more than 8 million
vehicles. The world’s biggest automaker invited him to talk
about his manufacturing and pricing strategy at its headquarters
in May.  “He knows his customers well and there are things we
should learn from him,” Toyota Vice Chairman  Katsuaki Watanabe 
said.  While Uniqlo customers may be unaware of the influence of
Drucker in the stores they visit throughout Japan, they are,
like Yanai, reading up on his ideas.  A book about a high-school girl who takes inspiration from
Drucker’s teachings to help a baseball team is set to become
Japan’s  biggest seller  this year.  “What If the Female Assistant of a High-School Baseball
Team Read Drucker’s ‘Management,’” written by Natsumi Iwasaki,
sold 1.21 million copies in the year ended Nov. 21, beating out
 Haruki Murakami ’s “1Q84” and a diet guide. Yanai knows the
concepts well, according to  Shuhei Abe , chief executive officer
of Sparx Group Co., where Yanai served as an outside director
two years.  “He is one of the few executives who understand Drucker’s
thoughts and philosophy,” said Abe, whose Tokyo-based hedge
fund also owns Fast Retailing shares, according to Bloomberg
data. “He actually put them into practice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
 Shunichi Ozasa  in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  