-- AMP, BHP, Macarthur, Newcrest, Qantas, Woodside: Australian Stock Preview
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-05T21:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/amp-bhp-macarthur-qantas-woodside-australian-stock-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual moves in Australia. The preview
includes news announced after markets closed on Dec. 3. All
prices are from that day’s close unless otherwise stated.  The S&P/ASX 200 Index  futures contract  due in December rose
0.1 percent to 4,715 as of 7:59 a.m. in Sydney. The  Bank of New
York Australia ADR Index  gained 1.3 percent. The  S&P/ASX 200
Index  advanced 0.4 percent to 4,694.20.  Mining shares: A measure of metals traded in  London  dropped
0.5 percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd.  (BHP AU), the world’s largest mining
company, rose 0.6 percent to A$44.59. Its American depositary
receipts climbed 1.4 percent in New York trading.  Rio Tinto Group  (RIO AU), the world’s third-biggest miner,
gained 1.7 percent to A$86.42.  Rio Tinto is in talks to buy Riversdale Mining Ltd. (RIV
AU) for about A$15 a share, the London-based Daily Telegraph
said, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.
Separately, Rio and its largest shareholder, Aluminum Corp. of
China, agreed to jointly seek and develop coking coal and copper
deposits in China.  Oil producers: Crude oil rose to the highest level in 25
months as the dollar tumbled.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  (WPL AU), Australia’s second-
biggest oil and gas producer, climbed 0.4 percent to A$42.21.
Rival  Santos Ltd.  (STO AU) added 0.5 percent to A$12.63.  Gold producers: Gold futures topped $1,400 an ounce as the
dollar’s slump boosted the appeal of precious metals as
alternative investments.  Newcrest Mining Ltd.  (NCM AU), Australia’s biggest gold
producer, gained 0.8 percent to A$40.74.  Financial shares: Australia’s four biggest banks face the
prospect of mounting competition after Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
urged customers to turn to credit unions and building societies
as he prepares a reform package for the industry.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  (CBA AU), Australia’s
largest bank by market value, advanced 0.3 percent to A$49.43.       AMP Ltd.  (AMP AU): The company, which is buying the
Australian and New Zealand units of Axa Asia Pacific Holdings
Ltd., said it plans to use the deal to compete with the wealth-
management businesses of Australia’s four largest banks. AMP
shares dropped 0.6 percent to A$5.11.       ASX Ltd.  (ASX AU): The exchange operator that’s agreed to
be bought by Singapore Exchange Ltd., plans to step up the
defense of the transaction to counter concern the deal will
weaken Australia’s sovereignty and regulatory powers.  “In the near future, ASX will release information that
outlines how the proposal advances Australia’s national interest
and informs much of the criticism,” Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Elstone  wrote in the Australian newspaper. ASX shares
slipped 0.2 percent to A$37.93.  David Jones Ltd.  (DJS AU): The retailer is maintaining its
forecast of a 5 percent to 10 percent increase in profit in the
2010-11 financial year, even as recent wet weather weakened
sales, the Australian newspaper reported, citing Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Zahra . The stock fell 0.7 percent to A$4.39.       JB Hi-Fi Ltd.  (JBH AU): The Australian electronics retailer
said it may be able to match last year’s Christmas sales, even
after a slow start to the period, the Australian Financial
Review reported. Chief Executive Officer  Terry Smart  said there
are some positive signs for the retailer and momentum is
building, according to the newspaper. Its shares sank 1 percent
to A$18.35.       Macarthur Coal Ltd.  (MCC AU): The world’s largest producer
of pulverized coal used in steelmaking said unseasonal heavy
rain in Queensland’s Bowen Basin forced the company to declare
force majeure on deliveries to customers. Macarthur shares
declined 1.4 percent to A$12.13.  Myer Holdings Ltd.  (MYR AU): Chief Executive Officer  Bernie Brookes  said the decline in Australian retail sales is likely to
continue, the Australian newspaper reported. Brookes, head of
the nation’s biggest department store chain, said he thought
sales in November would be even worse than the 1.1 percent
decline recorded in October, according to the newspaper. Myer
shares lost 0.3 percent to A$3.54.  Origin Energy Ltd.  (ORG AU): The Australian electricity and
gas retailer said it will consider raising equity should the
company buy assets from the New South Wales state government.
Origin shares climbed 0.5 percent to A$16.12.  Qantas Airways Ltd.  (QAN AU): Investigators found the
engine that exploded on a Qantas A380 en route to Sydney from
Singapore last month was removed last year to clean metal
fragments, the Australian reported, citing a government report.
Qantas shares rose 1.9 percent to A$2.69.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 