-- Auburn, Oregon Win, Will Likely Meet in BCS Championship Game in January
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-12-05T03:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/auburn-oregon-win-will-likely-meet-in-bcs-championship-game-in-january.html
(Corrects name to Auburn University in first paragraph.)  Auburn University quarterback  Cam Newton  passed for a career-high 335 yards and four touchdowns to
lead the Tigers past the University of South Carolina 56-17 in
the  Southeastern Conference  championship.  The win will probably lock up a spot in college football’s
national championship game against the  University of Oregon  on
Jan. 10 in Glendale, Arizona.  Auburn (13-0, 8-0 in the Southeastern Conference), ranked
No. 1 in the BCS standings, and Oregon (12-0, 9-0 in the Pacific
10 Conference), ranked No. 2, both won, with the Ducks beating
Oregon State 37-20 in Corvallis, Oregon.  The schools must wait 24 hours before they receive the
official word they are invited to the BCS championship. Texas
Christian University (12-0, 8-0 in Mountain West Conference),
ranked No. 3 in the BCS poll, needed one of the top two teams to
be upset to jump into the championship game.  “I knew this would be our best hour,” Auburn coach  Gene Chizik  told Walt Disney Co.’s ABC network after the game. “They
got out fast and they finished.”  Newton, who was recently cleared of wrongdoing in a pay-
for-play recruiting scandal, is a top contender for the Heisman
Trophy, which will be awarded next weekend in New York City. In
addition to his four touchdowns and no interceptions, the Auburn
quarterback rushed for 73 yards and two touchdowns.  The 6-foot-6, 250-pound passer became the second player in
the history of college football’s top division to both run and
pass for 20 touchdowns in a season. Former University of Florida
Gator Tim Tebow was the first.  “Without these guys on this team, I wouldn’t have the
success I did,” Newton said after the game.  As Newton left the field in the fourth quarter, Auburn fans
began chanting, “Heisman, Heisman, Heisman.”  Oregon Wins  In Corvallis,  University of Oregon  running back LaMichael
James ran 28 times for 134 yards and two touchdowns and Kenjon
Barner rushed 15 times for 133 yards and one score to power the
Ducks to a win over the Oregon State Beavers.  While Jacquizz Rodgers rushed for 87 yards and scored a
touchdown for the Beavers, Oregon State failed to score twice in
the second half and had to settle for field goals of 26 and 22
yards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  