-- Australian Central Bank Set to Keep Its Key Rate at 4.75% as Economy Slows
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 2010-12-06T00:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/australia-s-central-bank-set-to-pause-on-rates-as-economy-slows.html
The Reserve Bank of Australia is
likely to keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged tomorrow as
previous increases slow the economy and reduce the risk of
faster inflation.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board will leave the
overnight cash rate target at 4.75 percent in Sydney tomorrow,
according to all 25 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.
Stevens told lawmakers in testimony 10 days ago that “there’s
unlikely to be anything from us imminently” on borrowing costs.  Australia’s economy probably won’t reach the central bank’s
forecast 3.5 percent growth in 2010 after it expanded last
quarter at the slowest pace in almost two years, according to
Citigroup Inc. Stevens’ aim to contain prices was aided by some
of the nation’s largest banks boosting mortgage rates by almost
double the RBA’s quarter-percentage-point increase on Nov. 2.  “With rates up in November, inflation under control and
the economy losing momentum in the past quarter, clearly now is
not the time to be lifting rates further,” said  Craig James , a
senior economist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney.
debt crisis there.”  Australia’s currency declined to 99.01 U.S. cents as of
11:33 a.m. in Sydney from 99.31 cents in New York last week. It
reached 99.39 cents on Dec. 3, the most since Nov. 22.  Rate Bets  Traders bet there is a 90 percent chance Stevens will leave
borrowing costs unchanged through the first quarter of next year,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on interbank futures
on the Sydney Futures Exchange.  The currency declined 2.5 percent against the U.S. dollar
over the past month as reports indicated a slowing economy.  Retail sales declined in October by the most since July
2009, according to data released last week, and a private report
showed consumer confidence fell in November to a five-month low.
Household spending accounts for about half of the nation’s gross
domestic product.  Business profits also dropped in the three months through
September, the first quarterly decline in more than a year.
Lending to businesses slid 0.8 percent in October from September,
according to the central bank.  The economy grew 0.2 percent in the third quarter from the
previous period, the worst performance since a contraction at
the end of 2008, a government report showed on Dec. 1.  Earlier Move  Stevens, in testimony to the  House of Representatives
Committee on Economics  on Nov. 26, said while last month’s
decision to raise rates was finely balanced, it was typically
better to move earlier than later.  “We have to balance that risk, obviously, against the risk
of getting behind the game and historically, for many central
banks including us, that has tended to be the mistake that we
made,” the governor told lawmakers.  Australia’s currency reached parity with the U.S. dollar in
October as traders bet the central bank would boost borrowing
costs and the Federal Reserve prepared to pump additional
stimulus into the world’s largest economy. The RBA is seeking to
contain an expected acceleration in inflation as Australia
experiences a resource investment boom that is prompting
companies to increase hiring to meet demand from China.  Inflation Gauge  A gauge of Australia’s inflation accelerated in November
and surpassed the top of the central bank’s target range for a
third straight month.  Consumer prices increased 3.9 percent last month from a
year earlier, after advancing 3.8 percent in October, according
to an index compiled by TD Securities Ltd. and the Melbourne
Institute released in Sydney today. Prices increased 0.4 percent
from a month earlier, when they gained 0.3 percent.  Australian job advertisements rose in November by the most
in nine months, according to an Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. report today. Jobs advertised in newspapers and on
the Internet advanced 2.9 percent from October, when they
increased a revised 0.7 percent, the release showed.  Australian employers probably added 20,000 workers in
November, the ninth straight month of gains, according to a
separate Bloomberg survey ahead of a Dec. 9 report. Employers
have added 301,600 jobs from January to October and the monthly
average gain this year is the biggest in at least three decades.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. , Australia’s third-biggest
producer of iron ore, last month approved an $8.4 billion
expansion in Western Australia’s Pilbara region to almost triple
output as demand from steelmakers gains.  China Steel Mills  It joins  Rio Tinto Group , Vale SA and  BHP Billiton Ltd.  in
announcing expansions as prices increase. Producers are seeking
to meet demand from steel mills in China, where consumption of
the alloy is forecast by Rio Tinto to double by 2020 from 2008
levels.  “On all the indications available, we are living through
an event that occurs maybe once or twice in a century,” Stevens
said in an address to a Committee for Economic Development of
Australia event in Melbourne a week ago. “We obviously have to
be wary of overheating.”  The RBA’s quarter-point increase last month was followed by
larger rises in the standard variable home-loan rates of  Westpac
Banking Corp.,   National Australia Bank Ltd. ,  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  and Commonwealth Bank.  That prompted a political backlash and government moves to
increase competition in the banking industry. Local politicians
are sensitive to increases in borrowing costs as more than 90
percent of Australian borrowers have variable-rate home loans.  The RBA is unlikely to raise rates again before the second
quarter of 2011 as the economy is “yet to see the effect of the
recent tightening on activity and mortgage rates went up by 40
basis points,” said  Paul Bloxham , chief economist for Australia
and New Zealand at HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney and a former RBA
official, who previously forecast a move in the first quarter.  “This month’s decision is almost a fait accompli,” he
said. The RBA’s next monetary policy meeting is on Feb. 1.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at   mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Petrie  in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  