-- Australian, New Zealand Dollars Fall Before Central Bank Policy Meetings
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-12-06T17:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/australian-new-zealand-dollars-fall-before-central-bank-policy-meetings.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars fell, snapping three-day gains versus their U.S.
counterpart, on speculation policy makers meeting this week will
signal they’re in no hurry to increase interest rates.  Australia’s currency also dropped from near a two-week high
versus the greenback on concern a sovereign-debt crisis in
Europe will damp demand for higher-yielding assets. The euro
region’s finance ministers meet today in Brussels. New Zealand’s
dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, declined against most of its major
counterparts as a government report showed the budget cash
deficit was wider than earlier forecast.  “Kiwi and Aussie should drift lower into the rates
decisions later this week,” said  Mike Jones , a currency
strategist at Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington.
“Attention may shift back to Europe and the evolving sovereign-
debt crisis there. There’s still bubbling concerns about
Portugal and to a lesser extent Spain.”  Australia’s dollar fell 0.5 percent to 98.84 U.S. cents at
12:07 p.m. in New York, from 99.31 cents on Dec. 3, when it
climbed to 99.39 cents, the strongest since Nov. 22. The so-
called Aussie was down 0.3 percent to 81.74 yen, from 81.97. New
Zealand’s dollar dropped 0.7 percent to 76.03 cents, and fell
0.5 percent to 62.89 yen, from 63.22 yen.  Reserve Bank of Australia policy makers are projected to
leave benchmark borrowing costs at 4.75 percent tomorrow,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. New Zealand’s central bank
will meet on Dec. 9 and keep its official cash rate at 3
percent, according to a separate survey.  Higher Rates  Higher rates in Australia and New Zealand, compared with as
low as zero in the U.S. and Japan, attract investors to the
South Pacific nations’ assets. The risk in such trades is that
currency market moves will erase profits.  Traders pared bets on rate increases in Australia after RBA
Governor  Glenn Stevens  told lawmakers in testimony 10 days ago
that “there’s unlikely to be anything from us imminently” on
borrowing costs.  New Zealand’s cash deficit totaled NZ$7.45 billion ($5.7
billion) in the four months ended Oct. 31, or NZ$798 million
more than forecast in May’s budget, the Treasury said in a
statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Mumbai at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  