-- De La Rue Receives, Rejects Takeover Bid From Oberthur, Sky News Reports
-- B y   M i k e   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-12-05T23:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/banknote-printer-de-la-rue-rejects-bid-from-france-s-oberthur-sky-reports.html
De La Rue Plc , the world’s biggest
printer of banknotes, received and rejected a takeover bid from
France’s  Oberthur Technologies SA , Sky News  reported  today,
without saying where it got the information.  Oberthur, a Levallois-Perret, France-based maker of
smartcards, made an all-cash offer valuing De La Rue at about
750 million pounds ($1.2 billion) in the last few weeks, Sky’s
Business Editor  Mark Kleinman  said on his blog today. It now may
make a fresh offer, Kleinman said.  A statement confirming the approach may be made as early as
tomorrow morning, according to the broadcaster.  De La Rue, a 200 year-old company based in Basingstoke,
England, produces currencies for more than 150 nations as well
as security documents including passports and fiscal stamps,
according to its  website . Oberthur is the third-largest private
producer of banknotes, according to its website.  De La Rue rose 1 percent to close at 647.5 pence in London
on Dec. 3, giving the company a market value of 641.2 million
pounds. The  stock  has declined 34 percent this year.  Kate Holgate , an external spokeswoman for De la Rue at
Brunswick Group, declined to comment when contacted by phone
today. Louise Tingstrom, a spokeswoman for Oberthur at M
Communications, also declined to comment by phone.  De La Rue became the preferred supplier of banknotes to the
Bank of England in 2002 and bought the state’s printing works a
year later.  Valuation  In September, it said some employees had deliberately
falsified certain paper specification test certificates for
certain customers. The company stopped shipments of affected
banknote paper as soon as it was aware of the irregularities. On
Nov. 23, De La Rue said one major customer who was affected has
yet to resume shipments.  A Bank of America Merrill Lynch report last week gave the
company a fair value of 620 pence a share, based on “bear-case
figures,” the Financial Times said Dec. 1, with a fair value of
830 pence if it managed to retain the deal with its biggest
customer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Harrison  at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  