-- Barak Says `Worst' of Forest Fire Behind as Israel Halts Call for Aircraft
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-12-05T11:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/barak-says-worst-of-forest-fire-behind-as-israel-halts-call-for-aircraft.html
Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak 
said firefighters backed by international aircraft were
succeeding in controlling a forest blaze that killed 41 people
and forced the country to call in support.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , who held his weekly
Cabinet meeting near the site of the blaze, said he was halting
requests to foreign countries to send fire-fighting aircraft and
helicopters to Israel. He made the statement in a text message
to journalists.  “It looks like we are dealing with the last of the
blazes,” Barak said on Army Radio before the Cabinet meeting
today. “My assessment is that we will be in control of all of
the flames by the end of the day. The worst is behind us.”  The fire, which began Dec. 2 and destroyed more than 10,000
acres of forest, has been described by Israeli officials as the
worst in the country’s history. About 20 planes were fighting
the blaze, including an Evergreen 747 Super Tanker fire-fighter
from the U.S., and there will be more than 30 before dusk, said
 Micky Rosenfeld , a police spokesman.  Since the blaze started, Israel has received more than 30
firefighting planes and helicopters from the U.S., U.K., Greece,
Bulgaria, Cyprus, Turkey, France, Russia, Italy, Spain, Germany,
Switzerland and Jordan.  “The only way to deal with such fires is to combine ground
forces with air forces both local and foreign,” Netanyahu said,
pointing out that Russia and the U.S. have called in aid to
fight blazes. “This is also how superpowers behave.” His
remarks were broadcast on Army Radio.  Fire Damage  The daily  Ma’ariv  estimated fire damage at 985 million
shekels ($272 million), without saying how it did the
calculation. The government doesn’t yet have an estimate, Shlomi
Sheffer, a Finance Ministry spokesman, said by phone.  The  Welfare Ministry  has allotted about 500 million shekels
to municipalities hit by the fire, said Pnina Ben Ami, a
spokeswoman.  The Finance Ministry has allotted several million shekels
to help local municipalities, minister  Yuval Steinitz ’s office
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Most damage to private property is insured and the
insurance companies are covered by reinsurance policies, the
Finance Ministry said on Dec. 3. Most of the damage to public
property is also insured, it said.  “There hasn’t been such a fiasco since the establishment
of the state,” said Haim Klein, a former police superintendent
said on Army Radio. “We don’t need an inquiry. We need to
launch a criminal investigation for criminal negligence.”  Budget Increase  Interior Minister  Eli Yishai  responding to criticism,
saying in an interview on Army Radio that “I am responsible for
the fire department, but I don’t remember any other minister
fighting as much as I have for a budget increase.”  Two suspects under the age of 18 were arrested yesterday
for allegedly causing the fire, Rosenfeld said, adding that the
blaze appeared to be caused by negligence and not arson.  The fire began in the Carmel hills south of Haifa, a city
with a population of 266,000. Exceptionally dry weather created
conditions that allowed the flames to spread quickly, said
Salman Abu Rukun, an employee of the  Israel Nature and National
Parks Protection Authority .  About 12,500 acres of forest have been destroyed by the
fire, Efi Stenzler, Chairman of the Jewish National Fund that
plants trees in Israel, told Channel 2 television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net  or
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  