-- Barclays Scales Debt Ranking Feeding Infrastructure Demand: India Credit
-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2010-12-06T08:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/barclays-scales-ranking-with-infrastructure-debt-india-credit.html
Barclays Capital jumped 24 places,
the biggest climb by any bank in 2010, to become the No. 4-
ranked bond underwriter in India after arranging sales to fund
the nation’s growing transport and energy infrastructure needs.  The investment banking unit of London-based  Barclays Plc 
helped Indian borrowers issue 151 billion rupees ($3.4 billion)
of bonds this year, compared with 3.9 billion rupees in all of
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Almost half the
money raised was for companies including Rural Electrification
Corp.,  Tata Power Co . and Indian Railway Finance Corp. that are
building or funding road, power and rail projects.  “We expect increased issuance from infrastructure
companies next year,”  Jaideep Khanna , managing director and
head of investment banking at Barclays’ India unit, said in an
e-mailed response to questions on Dec. 3. “Overseas investors’
interest in Indian credit is increasing” and the bank expanded
its origination, trading and sales teams to help meet that new
demand, he said, without being more specific.  Indian companies raised a record 1.7 trillion rupees from
bonds this year in an economy that New York University Professor
 Nouriel Roubini  predicts may expand more than China’s in the
next decade if the state develops public infrastructure and
removes barriers to foreign investment. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh’s  government plans to invest about $1.5 trillion in the 10
years to 2017 on improving India’s transport and power networks,
which are ranked below those of war-ravaged Ivory Coast.  New Projects  India’s environment ministry approved construction of a 150
billion-rupee second airport in Mumbai last month to increase
the allure of the nation’s financial capital, Civil Aviation
Minister Praful Patel said on Nov. 22. Five road projects worth
a similar amount will be awarded to developers by April, Roads
and Highways Minister  Kamal Nath  said on Nov. 30.  Elsewhere in India’s credit markets, 10-year government
bonds fell last week by the most in more than five months as a
shortage of cash in the banking system reduced demand for debt.
Rural Electrification, the state-controlled lender to power
projects, postponed a $500 million bond sale to January because
of what an official called “adverse market conditions.”  Indian banks’ loans rose by 272.7 billion rupees in the two
weeks ended Nov. 19, raising outstanding advances to 35.6
trillion rupees, according to central bank data.  Policy Review  The yield on the 7.80 percent government note due May 2020
rose 21 basis points last week to 8.18 percent before climbing
to 8.197 percent today, according to the Reserve Bank of India’s
trading system.  “Investors seem to believe the central bank may not take
any measures to ease liquidity until the next policy review on
Dec. 16,” said  Debendra Kumar Dash , a fixed-income trader at
Development Credit Bank in Mumbai.  Rural Electrification Corp. hired Credit Agricole CIB,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, and Standard Chartered Plc to
manage the company’s bond sale until the Irish debt crisis and
tensions in the Korean peninsula forced it to postpone the
offering, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a phone
interview Dec. 3 from New Delhi.  Indian local-currency debt returned 4.2 percent in 2010,
according to indexes compiled by  HSBC Holdings Plc , as the
Reserve Bank raised borrowing costs by 150 basis points to 6.25
percent. Investors in China earned 1 percent, the least in the
region, the indexes show.  Record Equity Investments  The yield on the 7.8 percent government bond due May 2020
fell 4 basis points in November, the only debt among the so-
called BRIC nations to rally in the period. It is 516 basis
points, or 5.16 percentage points, above Treasuries of similar
maturity, according to Bloomberg data.  The rupee rose 1.6 percent last week to 45.11 to the dollar,
the biggest gain since the period ended Oct. 1, as Asia’s
second-fastest growing major economy draws record investment in
local stocks. Overseas investors bought $416 million of Indian
equities last week, taking purchases this year to a record $29.1
billion, according to the Securities & Exchange Board of India.  Credit-default swaps on State Bank, a proxy for the Indian
sovereign, rose 3 basis points to 175 basis points last week,
according to data provider CMA in New York. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Sales Barclays helped arrange for Rural Electrification
included the New Delhi-based company’s July issue of 18 billion
rupees in 8.75 percent bonds due 2025, Bloomberg data show. The
extra yield investors demand to own the notes instead of
similar-maturity government debt narrowed to 33 basis points as
of Dec. 3 from 71 basis points on Aug. 3, according to Fixed
Income Money Market & Derivatives Association of India prices.  Tata Power  Tata Power, an electricity supplier to Mumbai and its
suburbs, sold a series of one- to 15-year rupee notes with
assistance from Barclays. The yield on the $150 million in 20-
year, 8.5 percent bonds the company issued in 1997 fell to 6.19
percent as of Dec. 3, according to Elara Capital Plc prices on
Bloomberg.  The volume of rupee-denominated bond sales may climb by as
much as 30 percent in 2011 compared with this year, according to
Barclays’ Khanna, who is based in Mumbai.  ICICI Bank Ltd. , India’s second-largest lender, climbed
eight places to become the No. 2 bond arranger in 2010, managing
almost 200 billion rupees of sales, Bloomberg data show. Axis
Bank Ltd. holds the top place for a third straight year after
managing 254.3 billion rupees of offerings.  For companies seeking project finance in India “the loan
market is costlier and there are no bank loans available for 10-
year or 15-year maturities,” Khunteta, the Rural
Electrification finance director, said in a phone interview.
“Banks cannot lend below 8.5 percent after the introduction of
the base rate system this year,” he said.  Indian banks must not lend below their published base rate,
according to  Reserve Bank of India  rules that took effect from
July 1 as part of efforts to increase pricing transparency.
 State Bank of India , the nation’s largest lender, extends credit
at a spread above its 7.6 percent base rate while ICICI charges
at least 7.75 percent interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anurag Joshi  in Mumbai 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  