-- Corporate Bonds at 4% Attract as Jobless Rises: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-12-06T17:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/bond-yields-at-4-draw-janney-northern-trust-as-sales-hop-credit-markets.html
Investment-grade U.S. corporate bonds
are attracting investors betting a struggling labor market will
help contain inflation after yields rose above 4 percent for the
first time since early August.  Yields on debt of borrowers from Bentonville, Arkansas-
based retailer  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  to computer software maker
 Oracle Corp.  in Redwood City, California, have risen from an
average of 3.53 percent on Nov. 4, the lowest on record, as
gains in manufacturing and retail sales data pointed to an
improving economy, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index that tracks more than 4,400 bonds.  U.S. unemployment, which rose in November to the highest
since April, may take five years to fall to a normal level,
while it’s possible the Federal Reserve will buy more than the
$600 billion of Treasuries announced last month, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an interview broadcast yesterday. Rising demand
caused yields on company bonds to tighten relative to government
debt in the final three days of last week from the widest since
Oct. 21.  “The softer economic news actually put a bid in on fixed-
income prices,” said  Mark Luschini , chief investment strategist
at Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which has $50
billion of assets under management. “Bonds love the prospects
of weakened economic data.”  Spreads Shrink  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
corporate bonds rather than Treasuries shrank to 179 basis
points, or 1.79 percentage points, as of Dec. 3 from 182 at the
end of November as the U.S. reported that the unemployment rate
jumped to 9.8 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. The increase in joblessness led to speculation that
consumers will temper spending, keeping inflation from
accelerating and eroding the fixed-income payments of bonds.  “Investment-grade credit does look attractive here,” said
 Nicholas Finkelman , who helps oversee $3.5 billion of bonds as a
money manager at New York-based Ryan Labs Inc., which last week
bought debt issued by  American International Group Inc.   Elsewhere in credit markets, spreads on company bonds
worldwide widened 5 basis points last week to 176 basis points,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate Index. Relative yields reached 177 basis points on
Nov. 30, the highest since Sept. 8. Yields jumped to an average
3.83 percent from 3.7 percent.  IBM Offering  International Business Machines Corp. , the world’s biggest
computer-services provider, plans to sell debt due January 2016
as soon as today, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. IBM is marketing the notes four months after
selling $1.5 billion of debt due 2013 at the lowest interest
rate on record at the time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, and two weeks after Moody’s Investors Service
upgraded the senior unsecured rating of IBM’s debt one level to
Aa3 from A1, citing a growing emphasis on higher-margin software
and services.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. rose. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.4 basis point to a
mid-price of 92 basis points as of 12:02 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Investment-Grade Sales  Sales of U.S. investment-grade bonds rose to $17.1 billion
last week, more than the $14.25 billion in the previous two
weeks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Westpac Banking Corp.  raised $2.5 billion in a three-part
offering, the largest U.S. corporate bond sale by a foreign bank
in six weeks. The Sydney-based borrower’s $1 billion of five-
year, 3 percent notes rose 0.9 cent from the issue price on Dec.
2 to 100.8 cents on the dollar, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  AIG sold $2 billion of bonds in its first offering since
the insurer was bailed out by the U.S. government in 2008.  The New York-based company’s $1.5 billion of 6.4 percent
notes due December 2020 rose 1.36 cents from the issue price on
Nov. 30 to 101.1 cents on the dollar, Trace data show. The bond
is rated A3 by Moody’s, the seventh level of investment grade,
and an equivalent A- by S&P.  Prevent Inflation  European efforts to tackle deficits will also help prevent
inflation, helping to support prices from here, according to
 William Dennehy , senior fixed-income money manager at Chicago-
based Northern Trust Corp., which has $657 billion in assets 
under management, including $150 billion in fixed income.  “We like investment-grade credit at these yields,”
Dennehy said, adding Northern Trust was buying newly issued
bonds last week.  Fed policy makers on Nov. 12 started a second round of
asset purchases to support growth in the economy, reduce
unemployment and avert deflation. The Fed has kept its benchmark
rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent for two years.  The Labor Department reported Dec. 3 that the economy added
39,000 jobs in November, fewer than the most pessimistic
projection of 87 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
median forecast in the survey was for 150,000 more jobs.  Bernanke Interview  “At the rate we’re going, it could be four, five years
before we are back to a more normal unemployment rate” of about
5 percent to 6 percent, Bernanke told CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes”
program. The purchase of more bonds than planned is “certainly
possible,” said Bernanke, 56. “It depends on the efficacy of
the program” and the outlook for inflation and the economy.  Corporate earnings are headed for their best annual
performance since 1988, with analysts forecasting 37 percent
growth this year. They estimate next year will see a 14 percent
increase, according to projections compiled by Bloomberg News.  Company bonds should outperform government debt in 2011 as
relative yields remain compelling, net sales decline and the
securities benefit from the Fed’s quantitative easing, Barclays
Capital analysts led by  Eric Miller  wrote in a Dec. 3 report.  Spreads on high-grade corporate bonds remain wider than the
average of about 92 basis points in 2007 before credit markets
began to seize up. Returns on U.S. investment-grade debt will
beat government bonds by 250 basis points next year, the
analysts wrote.  Investment-grade bonds have returned 9.52 percent this
year, while Treasuries have gained 6.88 percent, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  The net amount of corporate bonds issued is forecast to
plummet 30 percent as $285 billion of debt, excluding that from
U.S. banks, is redeemed, the Barclays analysts said.  “The amount of fixed-income assets available to be
purchased next year is going to be smaller,” said  Jeffrey Meli ,
co-head of U.S. credit strategy at Barclays Capital in New York.
“This will be one of the most significant drivers of spread
performance for investment-grade next year. There’s going to be
less paper to buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  