-- Cathay Pacific Names Slosar Next CEO as China Growth Drives Record Profit
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-12-06T11:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/cathay-pacific-names-slosar-next-ceo-as-china-growth-drives-record-profit.html
John Slosar ,  Cathay Pacific Airways
Ltd. ’s incoming chief executive officer, said boosting
China operations would be a priority for the carrier as economic
growth spurs travel in the world’s most populous nation.  “We’re going to have a very big focus over the next few
years on developing our business in China,” Slosar, who will
become CEO of the Hong Kong-based carrier on April 1, told
reporters today. There is a “huge” opportunity there, he said.  Slosar is set to take over the world’s third-largest
carrier by market value as it prepares to begin a cargo venture
with affiliate Air China Ltd. and works to add as many as two
more passenger routes in the country. The airline, which gets
about half of its sales in China and Hong Kong, boosted
passenger numbers 11 percent through October, helping put it on
course for a record annual profit.  “The airline has been performing well this year,” said
 Francis Lun , general manager at Fulbright Securities Ltd. in
Hong Kong. “Slosar will help ensure continuity.”  Slosar, 54, has worked for Cathay Pacific parent Swire
Group for about 30 years, the last three of which he has spent
as the airline’s chief operating officer. He will take over as
CEO from  Tony Tyler , who is leaving to become head of the
International Air Transport Association trade group, Cathay said
in a Dec. 3  statement .  The  airline  fell 1.1 percent to HK$23.35 in Hong Kong
trading today, compared with a 0.4 percent decline for the Hang
Seng Index. The carrier has surged 61 percent this year, the
biggest gain among the 45 companies in the  benchmark index .  New Products  Cathay is planning to roll out new products through 2012 to
lure travelers, Slosar said at the Hong Kong press briefing. He
declined to elaborate ahead of an event tomorrow. The airline
intends to add premium-economy cabins and replace coach-class
seats in long-haul planes, three people familiar with the plan
said in October.  The carrier also said today that it will begin flying to
Chicago and Abu Dhabi next year, as well as boost services to
New York and Toronto. Overall, it intends to increase passenger
capacity about 11 percent next year.  Still, the global economic instability in past few weeks
“gives us some concerns going into 2011,” Slosar said.  China Venture  Cathay’s cargo venture with Air China is due to begin
services around the end of the year, Slosar said. The tie-up
will give the carrier access to freight hubs in Shanghai and
Beijing. Cathay also wants to increase its 19 percent stake in
Air China, the world’s largest carrier by market value, in the
long term, Slosar said.  “One of our key priorities in Cathay is working with
Dragonair and our partner in China to improve our access and
footprint in the China market,” Slosar said. Air China owns 30
percent of Cathay.  Cathay plans to add capacity to mainland China and new
routes, Tyler said at the press briefing, without elaborating.
The carrier’s mainline and Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Ltd. units
fly to 15 mainland cities, according to the company’s  website .  As COO, Slosar helped steer the airline through a worldwide
travel slump during the global recession that contributed to the
airline’s first annual loss in a decade in 2008. The carrier
pared services and offered staff unpaid leave to slash costs
during the slowdown. Slosar, Tyler and Chairman  Christopher Pratt  also waived bonuses.  “Slosar has been very much a hands-on man,” said  Andrew Orchard , an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in Hong Kong.
“He’s not a stranger to the business.”  Slosar, who studied at Columbia University and the
University of Cambridge, ran Swire’s beverage unit before
becoming Cathay’s COO. The drinks arm bottles Coca-Cola Co.
beverages in China and Hong Kong, and Slosar often drinks Cokes
at conferences and company events.  Fleet Expansion  The airline is due to receive a record 15 new planes next
year, including nine widebody passenger aircraft and six Boeing
Co 747-8 freighters. The company also ordered 36 Airbus SAS and
Boeing widebody planes in August. It had a  fleet  of 166 planes
as of June, including its Dragonair unit and a cargo venture
with DHL.  Slosar said he was optimistic that the carrier would reach
a pay agreement with pilots, without a labor dispute.  Cockpit
crew  last month voted to allow union leaders to possibly
recommend a work-to-rule, which would see them shunning
overtime. At the same time, they rejected beginning such steps
on Dec. 1.  “A big task for Slosar is managing relations with the air-
crew unions,” Lun said. “The air crew are the bread and butter
of operations at an airline.”  China Competition  Cathay also faces increasing competition as China Southern
Airlines Co. and China Eastern Airlines Corp., the two largest
mainland carriers, add new planes and boost overseas services.
U.S. carriers including United Continental Holdings Inc. and
Delta Air Lines Inc. are also expanding flights to Asia, lured
by economic growth in China that’s triple the U.S. rate.  Cathay expects to more than double profit this year to at
least HK$12.5 billion ($1.6 billion) because of the travel
pickup and the sale of stakes in an air-cargo handler and a
maintenance company.  Slosar has worked with Swire’s aviation division in Hong
Kong, the U.S. and Thailand since joining the group in 1980. He
became managing director of maintenance unit Hong Kong Aircraft
Engineering Co. in 1996. Two years later, he became managing
director of the group’s beverages arm.  He moved to Cathay in July, 2007, succeeding Tyler as COO.
The airline hasn’t said who will replace Slosar in that role.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  