-- China’s ‘Treadmill to Hell’ Is Worth Mind Game: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-12-05T22:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/china-treadmill-to-hell-is-worth-mind-game-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Fitch Ratings is performing a timely
mind experiment: Pretend Chinese growth fell below 5 percent.  Fitch isn’t forecasting a halving of Chinese output in 2011.
And Tony Stringer, head of Asia Pacific corporate ratings in  Hong Kong , is quick to say there’s no specific reason to expect
the second-largest economy to bog down anytime soon. Bears
haven’t made much money betting against China.  Yet if you said in 2005 that Bear Stearns Cos. would
collapse, the  Federal Reserve  would emulate the Bank of Japan,
Ireland would need a bailout,  Indonesia  would be a role model
and North Korea would be killing South Korean civilians, you
would’ve been laughed at. The supposedly unthinkable has an
uncanny way of becoming reality in this upside-down world.  Envisioning China stalling is a vital what-if exercise
given the increasing importance of an economy that’s still an
emerging market. That outcome would shake markets from New York
to Tokyo.  “Any credible prediction below 8 percent would spark a
huge risk sell-off,” says Simon Grose-Hodge, head of investment
strategy for South Asia at LGT Group in  Singapore .  With the U.S. walking in place,  Europe  embroiled in a debt
crisis and Japan deflating, investors wonder when or if emerging
economies can fill the growth void.  China  sits at the center of
this debate. In 1980, its share of world gross domestic product
was 2 percent. By 2008, it was around 12 percent. As 2011
approaches, no one doubts the pivotal role Chinese growth will
play in the global recovery.  What If?  If China did slow markedly, Fitch says, the fallout would
have negative consequences for sovereign and corporate credit
risks of trading partners such as  Australia , Hong Kong,  Malaysia ,
Singapore, South Korea and  Taiwan . Commodities markets would
take a sizeable hit, as would industries such as auto making,
chemicals, heavy manufacturing and steel. All export industries
would be rocked.  Increased market volatility would be another side effect.  Risk aversion  and potential financial contagion emanating from
China would be the last thing the world economy needs. The
hobbling of a key economic pillar might shock markets already on
edge.  A big slowdown would be a blow to multinational companies
expecting major things from Chinese subsidiaries. Industries
from consumer products to restaurants would generate lower
profits and cash flows if Chinese demand weakened.  Whither Treasures?  I also wonder about the U.S. Treasury market. Conspiracy
theories about China dumping its vast dollar holdings to annoy
the White House haven’t come to fruition. What if China suddenly
needed the money?  For a nation at China’s level of development, 5 percent
growth is crisis territory. The chances of social unrest would
explode among the nation’s 1.3 billion people, putting the onus
on the government to take drastic measures to boost growth. It
would be very tempting for Beijing to sell large chunks of
China’s $2.6 trillion of reserves to finance public-works
projects.  There’s also a bad-loan risk. Recent data show that Chinese
credit growth hasn’t really slowed from 2009’s rapid pace. The
reason: new bank lending has been offset by a surge in off-
balance-sheet loans. So in other words, all those efforts in
Beijing to rein in credit are coming to naught.  The Fed is part of the problem. Its policies feed a hot-
money pipeline that dumps into Asia. Also, the Fed last week
provided a detailed accounting of its efforts to shore up the
financial system. The data-dump showed the extent to which it
helped other nations’ banks in Europe and  Asia .  Overseas Assistance  Among the beneficiaries of the Fed’s emergency liquidity
facilities were Mizuho Securities USA Inc. and Daiwa Securities
America Inc. Perhaps we should rename the Fed the  Central Bank 
of the World.  The trouble for Asia is what happens to all this lending
once growth slows. One risk is the infrastructure arms race
unfolding in dozens of cities around China -- all vying to be
the next “it” destination for capital, companies and tourists.
Once the music stops and all those debts are tallied, China may
be looking at a bumpy few years.  Soaring real estate prices have prompted analysts like
former Morgan Stanley economist  Andy Xie  to call China’s asset
markets a bubble destined to burst. China is “on a treadmill to
hell,” with growth driven by the “heroin of property
development,”  New York  hedge-fund manager  James Chanos  has said.  China’s most-vocal critics have little to show for their
pronouncements. The place is still growing at 9.6 percent. The
determination in Beijing to keep things that way explains why
officials there refuse to let the yuan rise.  No country ever grows in a straight line, though, and China
is no exception. Even if the odds don’t favor an abrupt slowdown,
it’s wise to contemplate that possibility and prepare for it.
Stranger things have happened in this crazy world of ours.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  