-- China's `Patriotic Hackers' Attack U.S. Sites Including Google, NYT Says
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-12-05T20:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/chinese-patriotic-hackers-hit-google-u-s-sites-new-york-times-reports.html
“Patriotic hackers” backed by
Chinese authorities conducted extensive computer hacking on U.S.
government agencies and companies, including computer networks
of  Google Inc. , according to a report published by the New York
Times.  An examination of 250,000 diplomatic cables made public by
WikiLeaks.org by the U.S. newspaper showed that high-level
Chinese civilian and military officials assisted successful
hacking attacks aimed at retrieving a wide range of U.S.
government and military information.  At least one previously unreported attack conducted by
Chinese hackers linked to the People’s Liberation Army in 2008
yielded more than 50 megabytes of e-mails, user names, and
passwords from a U.S. government agency, the Times said.  A January cable reported that a “well-placed” Chinese
source told U.S. Embassy officials in Beijing that a series of
computer intrusions into Google’s networks in China were
conducted by the highest levels of the Chinese government.  The cables also detail the heavy pressure Chinese officials
placed on Google to comply with the country’s censorship laws,
including lowering the resolution of images of Chinese
government facilities on Google Earth and removing material
about human rights issues, political dissidents and government
leaders.  “From China’s view, a global conflict is already under way
in the virtual world of cyberspace,” said Dean Cheng, of the
Heritage Foundation, an expert in Chinese political and security
affairs.  National Security  “The ability to redirect vast amounts of data constitutes
a threat not only to national security but also to private
companies and individuals, as their information, too, has now
been put at risk,” Cheng said last month on the Heritage
Foundation’s website.  Google, which operates the world’s largest search engine,
conducted repeated negotiations with officials involved with
censorship, media licensing and propaganda. Still, Chinese
officials ordered state-owned telecommunications companies to
stop doing business with Google and redirected searches of
politically delicate terms to Baidu, a Chinese competitor.  Company executives said Google would stop censoring Chinese
search results in January after it determined that a “highly
sophisticated” attack on its servers originated from the
country.  Two months later, the company began to shut down its
Google.cn website and began routing mainland China users to its
Hong Kong site, where officials typically don’t help China
censor Web-search results. While critical of the approach,
Chinese authorities renewed Google’s license to operate an
Internet service in July.  Google didn’t respond to telephone and e-mail requests for
comment made to its press center.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Lisa Lerer  in Washington
at   llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  