-- Clinton Cable Shows Frustration With Saudi Failure to Stop Terrorist Funds
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-12-06T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/clinton-cable-reveals-concern-about-saudi-funders-of-terrorism.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
revealed frustration at the reluctance of Arab countries led by
Saudi Arabia to cut funds to Islamic extremists, according to a
classified memo obtained by Wikileaks and published yesterday by
the New York Times and Guardian.  In a Dec. 30, 2009, cable, Clinton said “more needs to be
done since Saudi Arabia remains a critical financial support
base for al-Qaeda, Taliban and Lashkar-e-Taiba -- but the Saudi
government is reluctant to stem the flow of money.” Qatar,
Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates were also singled out in the
diplomatic memos as suppliers of cash to terrorists.  In the same dispatch, Clinton points to donors in Saudi
Arabia as the “most significant source of funding to Sunni
terrorist groups worldwide” and complained that “it has been
an ongoing challenge to persuade Saudi officials to treat
terrorist financing from Saudi Arabia as a strategic priority.”  This latest batch of leaks will do little to improve U.S.
relations with its oil-rich allies in the Middle East and
contradicts public statements by the U.S. administration about
the progress made in cutting off terrorist fund-raising.  In a cable dated Aug. 10 last year, diplomats relayed
intelligence of how a Saudi-based company acted as a front to
funnel money to the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba militant
group, blamed for the 2008 attack on Mumbai.  U.A.E. Role  The U.A.E.’s role as terrorist financiers has also alarmed
U.S. officials. The Haqqani network, an insurgency in Pakistan
and Afghanistan with close ties to the Taliban, received
“significant funds” from the Gulf and “are believed to earn
money from U.A.E.-based business interests,” according to a
Jan. 7 secret memo.  Repeated calls to the Saudi Ministry of Interior and Sheikh
Mohammed al-Sabah, the foreign minister for Kuwait, weren’t
immediately returned. U.A.E. officials didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  Clinton last week traveled to Bahrain for a regional
security conference and met with Arab foreign ministers whose
countries were cited in leaked cables in an effort to contain
damage to U.S. diplomatic relations with its Middle East allies.
She said disclosure of sensitive diplomatic cables could hurt
negotiations and in some cases endanger individuals.  Clinton is “literally working night and day in
conversations with countless leaders around the world to try as
best we can not only to express regret but to work through these
issues,“ Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs  William Burns  said at a House Foreign Affairs Committee hearing on Dec.
1.  The officer on duty at the State Department yesterday
referred to comments made last week by spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  that he wouldn’t comment on specific leaks.  WikiLeaks Investigation  WikiLeaks began Nov. 28 to post online cables from U.S.
embassies. The nonprofit website, which is currently down, said
it has more than 250,000 cables that feature commentary on
foreign leaders and confidential conversations with U.S. allies.  The military and the State Department are working with the
Justice Department to investigate the leaks. U.S. Army
intelligence specialist Bradley Manning, who served as an
analyst in Iraq, was arrested in June at age 22 on suspicion of
illegally releasing classified information. Officials haven’t
revealed which contents he is suspected of leaking.  Manning, a private first-class, had said in an online chat
in May that the documents he downloaded included “260,000 State
Department cables from embassies and consulates all over the
world,” the New York Times reported last week.  The State Department has tightened up the way those
documents will be shared in the future. Even people who called
for greater sharing following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks in the U.S. say it’s time for policies to be reviewed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  