-- Conrad Says U.S. Deficit Panel's Cuts Don't Go Deep Enough, Wants Summit
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 2010-12-05T15:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/conrad-says-u-s-deficit-panel-s-cuts-don-t-go-deep-enough-wants-summit.html
Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad  said the U.S. needs to cut the deficit more than what was
proposed by a bipartisan debt commission and reiterated his call
for a summit on the issue with President  Barack Obama .  “I would prefer to even go further in deficit reduction
than this package,” Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat and member
of the commission who backed the plan, said today on “Fox News
Sunday.” He called the proposal, which was supported by 11 of
the panel’s 18 members, “a strong beginning.”  Obama’s debt commission rejected a $3.8 trillion budget-
cutting plan as members from both parties opposed its mix of tax
increases and spending cuts in programs such as Social Security
and Medicare. The plan fell short of the 14 votes needed to
forward the proposal to Congress for consideration.  “I think if we’re going to reach conclusion, we’ve got to
have the leaders of the House and the Senate, Republican and
Democrat, and the president or his representatives at the
table,” Conrad said. “I think that’s next logical step.”  Five of the six U.S. senators on the panel voted for the
plan, including all three Republicans. The rejected proposal
would have reduced the annual deficit to about $400 billion in
2015, from this year’s $1.3 trillion, and begin reducing the
debt.  Tax Increase  Representative  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican and
member of the debt commission, said he voted against the plan
because it “represents a roughly $2 trillion tax increase.”
The proposal “does not fundamentally address the key driver of
our national fiscal crisis, and that is health care,”
Hensarling said on “Fox News Sunday.”  “There’s nothing magical about 14 votes,” Hensarling
said. “If the speaker and the Senate majority leader want to
bring this provision before the Congress, they can. And I would
encourage them to do it.”  The plan would have increased taxes by $1 trillion by 2020
by scaling back or eliminating tax deductions, exclusions or
credits such as those allowing homeowners to write off interest
on their mortgage payments. It would also have cut individual
and corporate income tax rates.  Social Security benefits would have been cut, the gas tax
would have gone up by 15 cents, discretionary spending would
have been reduced by $1.6 trillion and Medicare would have been
pared by $400 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
or  Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  