-- Copper Stockpiles Falling Most in Six Years Makes Metal a Goldman Favorite
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-12-06T18:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/copper-stockpiles-falling-most-in-six-years-makes-metal-a-goldman-favorite.html
The biggest slump in copper
inventories in six years is compounding shortages as prices head
toward record highs, making the metal a top pick for Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley.  Demand will outpace supply by 367,500 metric tons next
year, enough for wires, pipes and appliances in about 1.8
million U.S. homes, according to the median forecast of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Stockpiles may drop to an all-
time low of less than one week’s usage, said  Michael Widmer , a
London-based metals analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Global exchange inventories have dropped 22 percent this year,
heading for the largest slide since 2004, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Prices advanced 35 percent since June 30 even as the
International Monetary Fund predicted slower world growth, U.S.
unemployment stuck near its highest level in more than a quarter
century and China, which uses two in every five tons of copper,
curbed lending and raised interest rates. Now, banks from Credit
Suisse Group to Barclays Capital are predicting higher prices,
with the median in the Bloomberg survey at a record average of
$8,542 a ton for 2011, 15 percent more than this year.  “Copper is the most attractive” of the base metals, said
 Ian Henderson , who manages about $8 billion in assets at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London, including shares of Freeport-
McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. and BHP Billiton Ltd., the second and
third-biggest miners. “I don’t expect any decline in copper
demand in 2011 and there is little in the way of new mines
coming on stream.”  Smart Phones  Prices climbed 19 percent this year, reaching $8,802.50 a
ton on the London Metal Exchange today. That compares with a 6.6
percent advance in the MSCI World Index of equities, a 6.9
percent return on Treasuries and a 16 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw-material futures. Prices
reached a record $8,966 a ton on Nov. 11.  Demand for the metal, used in everything from smart phones
to brake pads, will increase 4.2 percent next year, compared
with a 2.6 percent gain in  production , Barclays Capital said in
a report Nov. 11. Supplies fell 363,000 tons short of demand in
the first eight months of this year, the Lisbon-based
International Copper Study Group said in a report Nov. 23.  Mining companies have failed to keep pace with demand
because new reserves are getting harder to find and the quality
of ore is declining, meaning less metal is extracted from each
ton of earth. Average grades declined to about 1.1 percent this
year from 1.6 percent in 1990, according to Guildford, England-
based researcher Brook Hunt, a Wood Mackenzie company.  Biggest Mine  Production at Escondida, the world’s largest copper mine,
will drop as much as 10 percent in the 12 months ending in June
because of lower grades, Melbourne-based BHP Billiton, the
largest shareholder, said in a statement Aug. 25.  Freeport-McMoRan, the largest listed producer, said Oct. 21
that its copper sales from North America would drop to 1.1
billion pounds this year from 1.2 billion pounds in 2009. Sales
from Indonesia will probably decline to 1.2 billion pounds from
1.4 billion, the Phoenix-based company said.  “The major copper reserves that are being produced today
come from 100 year-old mines, with few exceptions,” Freeport
Chairman  James R. Moffett  said in a conference call on Nov. 17.  Analysts’ forecasts for shortages may not yet be reflected
in futures markets. Copper for delivery in December 2011 traded
at $8,555 on Dec. 3 on the LME, 1.9 percent below than the
benchmark contract for delivery in three months.  Goldman predicts prices of $11,000 by then and buying the
December 2011 contract is one of its seven recommendations in
commodities, according to a report Dec. 1.  Banking Bailout  The forecast gains could be stunted by slowing growth.
Prices slumped 7.7 percent in three days last month on concern
China’s steps to control inflation may curb demand for metals
and that Ireland would need a banking bailout.  Prices now may also be skewed by who owns metal. One
unidentified company held 50 percent to 79 percent of the LME’s
deliverable stockpiles as of Dec. 1, bourse data show. Buyers
that day paid the largest premium in two years for immediate
supply, relative to the three-month contract. Deliverable
inventories total 324,375 tons, the exchange said Dec. 6.  Record prices could encourage users to substitute cheaper
materials. Global consumption may be 100,000 tons less than
expected in 2011, and 250,000 tons below predictions in 2012,
because of replacement by plastics in plumbing and aluminum
alloys in air-conditioners, Credit Suisse said Oct. 20.  Hybrid Cars  Substitution may take out 3 percent of demand this year and
next, according to London-based Rio Tinto Group. New uses in
electric and hybrid cars should make up for some of that,  Andrew Harding , chief executive officer of Rio’s copper business, said
Nov. 26. The average North American car contains about 23
kilograms (51 pounds), while an electric car uses about 75
kilograms, he said.  The tripling of prices since December 2008 is also spurring
use of scrap metal, alleviating shortages signaled by this
year’s 22 percent drop in stockpiles monitored by exchanges in
London, Shanghai and New York. The supply of metal from wires
and electronic goods jumped 25 percent in the first eight
months, the International Copper Study Group reported in
November.  The biggest threats to higher prices are China tightening
its monetary policy and a worsening European debt crisis, said
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Widmer, whose March prediction
for this year’s average price is accurate to within 2 percent.  China Economy  China may raise bank reserve requirements to counter
capital inflows and a possible jump in lending at the start of
2011,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the central bank, said Dec. 3.
The bank pushed the one-year lending rate to 5.56 percent in
October, the first increase since 2007.  Still, manufacturing grew at a faster pace for a fourth
straight month in November, according to the nation’s logistics
federation. China’s economy will expand 9 percent in 2011,
compared with 10 percent this year, according to the median of
18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That would still be more
than three times the speed of the U.S., the second-biggest
copper  user , the survey shows.  Consumption in China, India, Brazil and the Middle East
will expand at an average annual rate of 7 percent per capita
through 2015, according to Barclays Capital.  “Where is all the new copper going to come from?” said
 Tom Patton , chief executive officer of  Quaterra Resources Inc. ,
a Vancouver-based company developing mines in North America.
“New deposits take 10 to 15 years to start up.”  Higher Demand  Aurubis AG, Europe’s largest smelter, is also predicting
higher demand next year.  “We presently see a very positive order flow for next
year,”  Bernd Drouven , chief executive officer of the Hamburg-
based company, said by e-mail. “Every copper price dip is
recognized by customers as an opportunity for new orders.”  Demand from Asia helped Santiago-based Codelco, the biggest
producer, increase the surcharge on sales to China next year by
35 percent, more than the 23 percent increase for Europe,
industry officials said last month. Buyers pay the fee on top of
the price of LME copper for  immediate delivery .  The gain is driving shares of mining companies. Freeport-
McMoRan climbed 38 percent in New York trading this year,
beating the 9.7 percent gain the S&P 500 Index.  Demand may also be boosted if JPMorgan, BlackRock Inc. and
ETF Securities Ltd. start exchange-traded products backed by the
metal. Such funds could hold as much as 250,000 tons, Aurubis
said in a report Nov. 15. Similar products backed by gold
 accumulated  2,098 tons since they started in 2003, equal to nine
years of U.S. mine output.  “The real story is metals and we’ve dubbed this the metals
decade,”  Mari Kooi , chief executive officer of Wolf Asset
Management International LLC, said at the Bloomberg Link Hedge
Fund and Investor Briefing in New York on Dec. 2. “What we have
is a set up of shortages in the metals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  