-- Czech Republic Has De Facto `Opt Out' on Joining Euro, Prime Minister Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-12-06T08:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/czech-republic-has-de-facto-opt-out-on-joining-euro-prime-minister-says.html
The Czech Republic can delay joining
the euro as long as it is beneficial to retain the koruna, Prime
Minister  Petr Necas  said as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
undermines confidence in the single currency.  The government won’t set a target date for euro membership
during its term in office, which ends in 2014, Necas, 46, said
yesterday. While the Czech Republic committed to adopting the
euro when it joined the European Union in 2004, it must first
meet fiscal criteria, including cutting the budget  deficit  by
half to a maximum of 3 percent of  gross domestic product .  “Nobody can force us into the euro,” Necas said in a live
debate on Czech Television, the Prague-based state broadcaster.
“De facto we have an opt-out.”  Support for the common currency is declining in the Czech
Republic and other eastern EU states after growing deficits
forced euro-zone countries to bailout Ireland and Greece. About
70 percent of Czechs oppose dropping the koruna, the most since
the survey started five years ago, according to a survey of
1,228 people conducted Sept. 3-13 by the pollster STEM.  Polish central bank Governor  Marek Belka  said Dec. 2 that
this country shouldn’t hurry to adopt the euro until the EU
adjusts its political institutions and economy to support a
stable common currency.  ‘Our Will’  Switching to the euro must be preceded by spending at least
two years in the exchange-rate mechanism to prove currency
stability.  “Nobody can force us to enter this mechanism,” Necas said
in Prague. “It’s solely up to our will. It’s our decision, and
there is no reason to rush.”  The koruna was little changed at 24.995 to the euro as of
9:05 a.m. in Prague. The Czech currency has gained 3.4 percent
to the euro since the May 28-29 general elections after which
Necas’ administration pledged to cut the fiscal deficit to less
than 3 percent of GDP by 2013.  Neighboring Slovakia joined the euro on Jan. 1, 2009, 16
years after Czechoslovakia ceased to exist. Estonia, another
former communist state that entered the EU in 2004, is scheduled
to adopt the euro next year.  Czech President  Vaclav Klaus , a critic of the euro, asked
the government to look whether the country may renege on its
obligation to join the currency because the monetary union has
changed as a result of the bailouts, Necas said yesterday.  ‘Changed’  “The euro zone has changed from what it was in 2003, when
we voted in the referendum on joining the European Union,”
Necas said. “Entering the euro zone now, or even setting the
target date, would be political and economic foolishness.”  The Czech Republic is recovering from its worst recession
since the fall of communism two decades ago. The pace of
recovery depends on demand for Czech products in the euro area,
the main Czech trading partner.  Exports , including cars made by
Volkswagen AG’s Skoda Auto, account for about 70 percent of the
country’s economic output.  The economy will benefit from having its own currency as
the country tries to narrow the wealth and  price  gaps with
western Europe, Necas said.  The Czech Republic’s GDP per capita, an indicator of the
standard of living, was about 80 percent of the EU average in
2008, compared with 116 percent in Germany, according to data
from Eurostat, the EU’s statistics agency in Brussels.  “It is clear that the costs of maintaining an independent
Czech currency are lower than the costs of eventual adoption of
the euro,” Necas said. “And it will stay so for quite a long
time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  