-- Czech Republic Still Able to Opt Out of Adopting Euro, Prime Minister Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-12-05T13:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/czech-republic-still-able-to-opt-out-of-adopting-euro-prime-minister-says.html
The Czech Republic can still in
practice opt out of joining the euro and shouldn’t hurry in
making a decision on adopting the single currency, Prime
Minister  Petr Necas  said.  The country doesn’t have a target date for euro membership,
though it’s among the former communist states that had committed
to the switch as part of their accession treaties with the
European Union. The Czechs need to meet the euro-entry
conditions, including cutting the budget  deficit  by half to a
maximum of 3 percent of  gross domestic product .  “Nobody can force us into the euro, de facto we have an
opt-out,” Necas said in a live debate on the state Czech
Television today. The switch to the euro must be preceded by
spending at least two years in the exchange rate mechanism to
prove currency stability, and “nobody can force us to enter
this mechanism,” he said. “It’s solely up to our will, it’s
our decision, and there is no reason to rush.”  Support for adopting the euro is fading in the Czech
Republic and other eastern EU members as financing difficulties
in Greece and Ireland roil investors. Some 70 percent of Czechs
oppose dropping the koruna, according to an Oct. 11 opinion
poll, the most since the survey started five years ago.
Neighboring Slovakia joined the euro on Jan. 1, 2009, 16 years
after Czechoslovakia ceased to exist.  Czech President  Vaclav Klaus , a critic of the euro, asked
the government in Prague to look whether the country may renege
on the obligation to join the currency because the monetary
union has changed, Necas said today.  ‘Foolishness’  The Czech Republic is recovering from the worst recession
since the fall of communism two decades ago. The pace of
recovery depends on demand from the euro area, the main Czech
trading partner, as  exports  including Skoda Auto AS cars account
for about 70 percent of the country’s economic output.  Necas reiterated today the economy will benefit from
controlling its own currency as it moves to narrow the wealth
and  price  gaps with western Europe. The government also won’t
set a target date for the euro-switch, he said.  “Entering the euro zone now, or even setting the target
date, would be political and economic foolishness,” said Necas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  