-- ‘Tangled’ Outdraws ‘Harry Potter’ to Lead Box Office
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2010-12-06T22:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/disney-s-tangled-overtakes-potter-as-top-film-with-21-5-million-sales.html
“Tangled,”  Walt Disney Co. ’s
animated update of the fairy tale of Rapunzel, was the top
weekend movie at U.S. and Canadian theaters, with $21.6 million
in ticket sales.  “Tangled” rose to first place after opening second behind
“Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -- Part I” a week
earlier. “The Warrior’s Way,” the only new film in wide
release, was ninth with $3.0 million, researcher  Hollywood.com
Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.  Sales for “Tangled” raise Burbank, California-based
Disney’s fortunes as the studio prepares to release “Tron:
Legacy,” a sequel to the 1982 picture about a man trapped in a
video game. Disney ranked fourth among studios with $1.28
billion in domestic sales as of Dec. 2, according to Box Office
Mojo.  Time Warner Inc.  was first with $1.8 billion.  “The only two movies people are excited about are
‘Tangled’ and ‘Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows,’ which just
swapped positions,”  Gitesh Pandya , editor of boxofficeguru.com,
said in a telephone interview. “People are waiting for the next
wave of holiday films,” including “Tron.”  “That should jumpstart the box office,” Pandya said.
Hollywood.com said this weekend’s receipts at $78.3 million were
the second-lowest gross for the year.  “Tangled” tells the story of Rapunzel, a girl whose
magical hair is 70 feet long. Locked away in a tower, she is
freed by a charming bandit.  Mandy Moore  provides the voice of
Rapunzel and Zachary Levi plays the bandit Flynn Rider.  $244 Million  “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -- Part 1,” the
seventh film in the series based on J.K. Rowling’s books, had
sales of $17 million. It has taken in $244.5 million in domestic
ticket sales for Warner Bros. since it was released on Nov. 19,
according to Hollywood.com.  In “Deathly Hallows,” Lord Voldemort, played by  Ralph Fiennes , gains control of the magical world as Harry and his
pals, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, go into hiding. They try
to avoid capture while seeking artifacts that hold portions of
the evil wizard’s soul. The returning cast includes  Daniel Radcliffe  in the title role,  Rupert Grint  and  Emma Watson .  “Burlesque,” starring  Christina Aguilera  and Cher,
finished third with $6.1 million. The film follows a young
woman, played by Aguilera, who tries to make it as a dancer in a
club run by Cher’s character. Sony Pictures is the distributor.  ‘Love and Other Drugs’  “Unstoppable,” an action film starring  Denzel Washington ,
came in fourth place with $6.0 million in sales in its fourth
week. In the News Corp. film, Washington plays a veteran
railroad engineer and  Chris Pine  portrays an inexperienced
conductor attempting to stop a runaway train.  “Love and Other Drugs,” featuring  Jake Gyllenhaal  and
 Anne Hathaway , was fifth, taking in $5.7 million in its second
weekend. Hathaway plays a free-spirited woman who is pursued by
a charming salesman, played by Gyllenhaal. The romantic comedy
was released by News Corp.’s Twentieth Century Fox.  Ninth place’s “The Warrior’s Way,” from Relativity Media
LLC, stars Korean actor Jang Dong-gun as an Asian swordsman who
travels to the American Old West.  Kate Bosworth  and  Geoffrey Rush  are also featured.  ‘Black Swan’  Among movies opening in limited release, the thriller
“Black Swan,” featuring  Natalie Portman  and Mila Kunis as
rival ballerinas, generated sales of $1.44 million for News
Corp.’s Fox Searchlight.  “Aside from wide releases, ‘Black Swan’ with Natalie
Portman is one to watch in the weeks ahead,” Pandya said. “It
was the No. 13 movie in the country and is only showing in 18
theaters. It’s a movie sure to get her an Oscar nomination.”  Sales for the weekend’s top 12 films fell 14 percent from a
year earlier, according to Hollywood.com. This year’s domestic
box-office sales total $9.78 billion, up 1.6 percent from a year
earlier. Attendance is down 3.4 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Dec.
3 to Dec. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
 Krista Giovacco  in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 