-- WikiLeaks Backfires by Exposing Hidden U.S. Virtue: Albert Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2010-12-05T16:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/leaks-backfire-by-exposing-hidden-u-s-virtue-commentary-by-albert-hunt.html
WikiLeaks is one of those stories
where the passions of the moment blind us to the more important
lessons.  Ever since the New York Times and the Guardian began to
publish the secret State Department and Pentagon documents,
obtained by the WikiLeaks website, the conversation has focused
on how embarrassing this is for the U.S. government and others
around the world; whether WikiLeaks’ erratic founder, Julian Assange, should be put on a terrorist list and prosecuted; and
did the news media, especially the Times, act responsibly in
publishing the material?  All miss the mark.  To be sure, there are embarrassing revelations in the
thousands of cables, often raw files. Arab governments are
urging the U.S. to strike  Iran ; the U.S. and  South Korea  are
gaming China’s reaction to a collapse of  North Korea ; the
portraits of heads of state aren’t flattering.  This no doubt will complicate some relations as well as
American diplomacy for a while. Despots likely will go out of
their way to distance themselves publicly.  Still, rather than exposing ineptitude, the secret
documents actually reflect well on U.S. policy and diplomacy.
Pressure to prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons isn’t
effective if China, which gets much of its oil from that
country, is opposed. U.S. efforts to cut a deal with the Saudis,
who fear Iran, to possibly supply more oil to China are shrewd.  Diplomats’ Professionalism  Most of the cables, along with the good gossip, reflect
similar professionalism, probably to the consternation of the
WikiLeaks crowd.  Take a moment to think over the sensitive U.S. diplomatic
and military documents that could have been revealed over the
past half-century. There would have been reports of attempted
assassinations, bribes and the procurement of prostitutes for
foreign leaders, or the illegal use of torture.  This isn’t to suggest that the motives of WikiLeaks and its
shadowy, publicity-seeking founder, Assange, were noble. He
acknowledges the purpose was to humiliate the U.S. government.  Yet beyond the predictable reactions both inside and
outside the administration, the reality was best captured by
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , who suggested that while the
cables were “awkward” and “embarrassing,” the consequences
for  U.S. foreign policy  are “fairly modest.”  No Pentagon Papers  The analogy to the famous 1971 Pentagon Papers, which
exposed the internal deliberations of Vietnam War decision-
making, is absurd. Those documents chronicled years of
deliberate lies and misrepresentations that caused a debacle
resulting in the loss of hundreds of thousands of lives. There’s
nothing remotely comparable in the WikiLeaks.  Moreover, the “transparency is always good” defense is
flawed, too. The result, short-term at least, will be to
discourage candor in cables, just as the immediate aftermath of
kiss-and-tell books is to discourage dialogue.  The cries to lynch Assange --  Mike Huckabee , a Republican
presidential hopeful, wants him executed; others want to lock
him up at Guantanamo Bay -- are also overreactions. His actions
may be offensive; it’s not clear they’re prosecutable under the
almost century-old Espionage Act.  The result of any effort to do that probably would be
further embarrassment and the elevation of an undeserving
martyr. It’s better to leave Assange to the mercy of the Swedes,
who have issued a warrant for his arrest for alleged sex crimes.  First Amendment  Facing potential legal obstacles, some politicians now say
the law ought to be written to make it easier to go after such
people. Any time American politicians start mucking around with
the First Amendment to curry public favor, there is cause for
concern.  Another canard is the charge by Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  and others that the Times acted irresponsibly,
if not unpatriotically, in publishing these stories. The paper
got the information, not from WikiLeaks, which objected to its
earlier coverage of their activities, but from the Guardian,
which wanted to share the disclosures with America’s most
prestigious newspaper.  And the Times seems to have carefully and responsibly
analyzed what should and shouldn’t be published and provided a
constructive context for the stories.  Clinton Criticism  Also dubious are attacks blaming the Obama administration.
The former Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin
blasted the administration for its “incompetent” handling of
the leaks, suggesting this never would have happened if she had
been president. Assange and President  Hugo Chavez  of  Venezuela 
demanded the resignation of Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  Credible observers praised Clinton for her sensible private
and public reaction to the leaks; experts such as Jim Lewis of
the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a
cybersecurity expert and former State Department official, say
the Obama administration actually has been more aggressive than
its predecessor on these sorts of security issues.  There are lessons to be learned. The original source
apparently was an Army private, one of about 1 million people
with “top secret” security clearance in America. (The material
in the latest WikiLeaks dump was rated at the lower “secret”
level, and was accessible to about 3 million people.) That
process plainly has to be reviewed. John Pike of
GlobalSecurity.org, a public-policy organization focused on
national security, says, “If you can get a  credit card , you can
get a ‘secret’ clearance.”  ‘Manage the Risk’  Further, as Lewis says: “After 9/11, we realized that
information sharing was important, that having pieces in
different databases had drawbacks. We fixed that, but not the
technologies and controls that manage the risk of greater
access.”  The danger now is an overreaction to the leaks that will
stifle the sharing of information with other countries and
between U.S. security agencies.  Even if all the right things are done -- such as creating
new controls and clearances -- preserving an open society in the
Internet age means that governments, corporations and
individuals will periodically have to deal with these cyber
intrusions. Some may be more damaging than the WikiLeaks
incidents.  In recent days, Assange has said he may consider similar
strikes against countries such as  China  and  Russia . If so, there
won’t be debates there about whether to prosecute or not; he
wouldn’t be around.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 