-- Energomontaz, KGHM, Mol, PBG May Be Active: Central Europe Stock Preview
-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-12-06T07:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/energomontaz-kghm-polska-miedz-mol-pbg-central-europe-stock-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in central European
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names.
Share prices are from the last close.  Poland’s  WIG20 Index  gained 1.1 percent, the Czech  PX Index 
gained less than 0.1 percent and Hungary’s  BUX Index  added 2.2
percent.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA  (KGH PW): Poland’s only copper
producer will publish an updated forecast of 2010 earnings on
Dec. 6,  Parkiet  reported Dec. 4, citing Chief Executive Officer
 Herbert Wirth . KGHM shares rose 2.6 percent to 144.9 zloty.  Mol Nyrt.  (MOL HB): Hungary’s largest oil refiner had its
long-term foreign and local-currency credit grade confirmed at
‘BBB-’ at Fitch Ratings, with a stable outlook. Fitch confirmed
the credit grade after Mol made a bid for all outstanding
publicly traded shares of its Croatian unit. Mol shares rose 6.8
percent to 19,805 forint.  PBG SA  (PBG PW): Poland’s largest construction company by
value said its offer for shares held by two minority
shareholders in  Energomontaz-Poludnie SA  (EPD PW) hasn’t been
accepted and it will examine “various options for resolving
this deadlock,”  Parkiet  reported, citing  Jacek Krzyzaniak , a
spokesman. PBG advanced 1.4 percent to 223 zloty, while
Energomontaz gained 0.5 percent to 3.9 zloty.  PGE SA  (PGE PW): Poland’s largest power company postponed
the sale of its phone unit Exatel SA until next year in order to
give bidders more time to carry out due diligence checks, Puls
Biznesu reported, citing a person familiar with the transaction.
PGE increased 1.2 percent to 22.55 zloty.  TVN SA  (TVN PW): Poland’s publicly traded television
network was upgraded to “overweight” from “neutral” at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. TVN shares gained 1.7 percent to 17 zloty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net ;
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  