-- Hermes Family Strengthens Defense Against LVMH by Creating Holding Company
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-12-06T08:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/hermes-family-to-create-holding-company-for-half-of-capital.html
Hermes International SCA’s  family
shareholders sought to bolster their defense against a possible
takeover by  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA  by setting up a
holding company for more than 50 percent of the share capital.  The proposed holding company will have first right of
refusal on the remaining shares held directly by the family,
Hermes said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday. The family
“have reaffirmed their unity and their confidence in the
solidity of their current control of Hermes.” The commitment to
create the majority holding is “irrevocable.”  Hermes , the maker of Kelly handbags that retail for about
7,000 euros ($9,375), has said that the  family  is “fully
united” in its desire to retain control of the 173-year-old
company after LVMH announced in October it had acquired a 17.1
percent stake via equity swaps and would consider buying more.  Hermes family members, who own 73.4 percent of the company,
need a mechanism to allow shareholders to sell without LVMH
swooping on the stock, said a person familiar with the matter.
Family members sold an average 0.5 percent of the share capital
annually over the last decade, said the person, who declined to
be identified because the talks were private.  Hermes hired BNP Paribas SA and Bank of America Corp. as
advisers last month to help fend off a possible LVMH takeover
bid. LVMH, which has said it doesn’t intend to seek a  board  seat
or control, can’t bid for all of Hermes until at least April 23,
according to French regulations.  Stock Performance  Hermes  dropped as much as 7.25 euros, or 4.8 percent, to
143.30 euros and traded at 146.65 euros in Paris trading at 9:15
a.m. The stock has surged 57 percent this year, boosting the
company’s market value to 15.4 billion euros. Fewer than 10
percent of Hermes shares are now freely traded, exacerbating any
movement in the stock.  LVMH  stock  was little changed in Paris and has gained 55
percent this year, valuing the company at 59.6 billion euros.
Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault  has built his company
into the world’s largest luxury-goods company by snapping up
brands from Donna Karan International Inc. to Glenmorangie Plc.  He bought a 5 percent stake in Gucci Group in 1999, saying
LVMH didn’t intend to make a full bid, then increased the
holding to 34 percent within a month. Arnault, ranked seventh on
the Forbes magazine list of the world’s richest people,
eventually lost a battle for Gucci to French rival PPR SA.  The proposed holding company is subject to approval from
the French stock market regulator, Hermes said yesterday.
 Olivier Labesse , a spokesman for LVMH, declined to comment on
the holding company yesterday.  Acting in Concert?  A formal alignment of the relatives’ shares means they
would be acting in concert under the rules of French stock
market regulator Autorite des Marches Financiers, obliging them
to make a bid for the rest of the stock,  Colette Neuville ,
president of minority shareholder group Adam said on Dec. 3,
before the holding company was announced.  Lawyers advising Hermes on the possible structures
available for the family to barricade their stake disputed
Neuville’s reading of the rules, she said. The lawyers took the
view that Hermes’s SCA status means the family already controls
the company and that any new structure to emerge from the Dec. 3
meeting would warrant a simple “reclassification” to the AMF
of their existing position, she said.  Shares in the company doubled between the May 1 death of
former Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Louis Dumas  and the
announcement of the LVMH stake in October on speculation members
of the founding family may be more willing to sell.  Hermes, whose Birkin bags have been carried by Lady GaGa
and Martha Stewart, was founded as a harness-maker in Paris in
1837, expanding into saddles in 1880 when it moved to 24 Rue du
Faubourg Saint-Honore, then a busy intersection. It now sells
products ranging from a set of tea cups for $540 to $8,100
Jypsiere shoulder bags.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 