-- Eurostar Plans to Operate `Near-Normal' Train Service as Weather Improves
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2010-12-06T08:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/eurostar-to-run-a-near-normal-service-monday-after-weekend-cancellations.html
Eurostar Group Ltd. said it will run
a “near normal” service today, while some airports reported
“slight” delays and cancellations as the winter weather that
disrupted traffic last week improves.  The operator of the rail link between the U.K. and
continental Europe scrapped one Brussels-to-London service this
morning and an evening service in the opposite direction,
according to a  statement  on its website yesterday.  Eurostar canceled seven trains yesterday and 10 on Dec. 4.
The company modified its schedule because of unseasonably cold
weather to avoid a repeat of last winter, when five trains
carrying 2,000 people were stranded in the Channel Tunnel after
snow disabled service.  Snow and sludge caused some train delays in Germany this
morning, although traffic is running “much smoother” than in
previous days, said Kathrin Fellenberg, a spokeswoman for
Deutsche Bahn AG. The airport in Frankfurt has had no disruption
as of 8:30 a.m. local time as temperatures swung to above
freezing, said Alfred Schmoeger, a spokesman for  Fraport AG .  Edinburgh Airport said on its  website  today that some
flights were canceled because of continuing weather conditions,
while  London City  reported “some slight delays and
cancellations.” Dublin Airport may see disruption if weather
conditions deteriorate further, according to its website.
Heathrow Airport said “most” flights are operating, with some
airlines experiencing cancellations because of snow disruption
at other airports.  Snowfall in the U.K. today is likely to be limited to the
north of the country, and the southern part is  forecast  to be
“dry and sunny,” according to the Met Office. Severe weather
warnings have been issued for Scotland and Northern Ireland.  Eurostar slashed services after cutting speed limits from
300 kilometers (186 miles) per hour to as little as 160
kilometers per hour because of wintry weather. The company said
it will offer passengers on canceled trains free exchanges or
refunds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  