-- Iran Seeks Sanctions Cancelation as Negotiators Focus on Nuclear Program
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-12-07T09:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/iran-nuclear-negotiators-seek-framework-don-t-see-breakthrough.html
Preventing the spread of nuclear
weapons and a proposal to transfer atomic-reactor fuel to Iran
top the agenda as U.S. and European diplomats meet for a second
day in Geneva with their Iranian counterparts.  Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said in a speech
today in the city of Arak that talks will be “fruitful” if
sanctions against Iran are canceled. Foreign Ministry spokesman
 Ramin Mehmanparast  said at a press conference in Tehran that
Iran is going into the talks with a “positive attitude.”
Nuclear non-proliferation, disarmament and atomic-technology
transfer will be the points of discussion, he said.  “What matters most to the Americans is Iran’s uranium
enrichment and their alleged studies” into nuclear weapons,
 Ivan Oelrich , senior fellow at the Washington-based  Federation
of American Scientists , said in a telephone interview from New
Orleans. “If both sides agree to talk on those issues, then
that would be a step forward.”  Iran’s nuclear program, which has drawn four sets of United
Nations sanctions, is at the center of the European Union-led
talks in Geneva. Iran says it’s producing uranium to fuel atomic
reactors. The U.S. and Europe accuse Iran of trying to build
nuclear weapons.  Iran used yesterday’s meeting in Geneva with the so-called
P5+1 -- China, France, Russia, the U.S., the U.K. and Germany --
to talk about a Nov. 29 bombing in Tehran that killed an Iranian
nuclear scientist. Iran has blamed foreign agents for the
bombing.  Killing Condemned  Iran’s envoy to the Geneva talks,  Saeed Jalili , opened the
session by condemning the killing of physicist Majid Shahriari,
state-run Mehr news agency reported, citing an unidentified
Iranian official in Geneva.  “We believe some of the secret foreign services have been
involved,” Iranian Foreign Minister  Manouchehr Mottaki  told
reporters in Athens yesterday. “Those who think murders and
military violence can destroy nuclear technology have made a big
mistake.”  The U.S. has said it wasn’t involved, while Israel and the
U.K. have declined to comment.  “Trust is going to take a long time to develop, and
they’re not going to come out of this meeting with an
agreement,”  Paul Ingram , executive director of the British
American Security Information Council, a London-based policy
advisory group, said yesterday by telephone. “There is an
increased willingness now to discuss real issues.”  IAEA Blocked  International Atomic Energy Agency  inspectors have been
stymied by Iranian officials, who have so far refused to discuss
documents that show Iran may have researched the construction of
nuclear weapons. The IAEA has been investigating Iran’s nuclear
work since 2003, when it was revealed that Tehran’s government
had hidden atomic research for two decades.  Tensions may mount further after  Ali Akbar Salehi , the head
of Iran’s atomic energy agency, said Dec. 5 that the country had
achieved self-sufficiency in producing yellowcake -- uranium in
its raw form -- as part of its nuclear program.  The goal of the talks is to find a way for the P5+1 -- the
five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council
plus Germany -- to build momentum for further negotiations, say
past and present diplomats from countries participating. An
immediate breakthrough isn’t likely, they say.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Tirone  in Geneva at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  