-- Fischer Becomes Model for Central Bankers Seeking Soft Landings
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2010-12-06T10:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/israel-s-fischer-aims-for-housing-market-soft-landing-amid-global-wreckage.html
Israel’s  Stanley Fischer  hopes to do
something with the country’s housing market that central bankers
in the U.S., Ireland and Spain have tried and mostly failed to
do in the past four years -- bring it in for a soft landing.  House prices in Israel climbed 19 percent in the past year,
fueled by a shortage of properties and record low interest rates,
the Bank of Israel estimates. Fischer, the central bank governor,
has tried to slow growth by raising borrowing costs six times
and requiring higher bank provisions for some loans.  Israel is attempting to use the benefit of hindsight to
avoid the contagion sparked by the collapse of the U.S.
subprime-mortgage market in 2007, said Ayah El Said, a research
analyst for Roubini Global Economics in London. Fischer, who was
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke’s  thesis adviser, has
warned that continuing house-price gains risk creating a bubble
that could shake Israel’s financial system.  “He will do whatever it takes,” said El Said, who studies
the Middle East and Africa. Still, “it won’t be enough to cool
down housing prices: What has to be done is to reduce the gap
between supply and demand.”  Israel was the world’s fifth best-performing housing market
in the past year, according to Knight Frank LLP, a London-based
property broker. Only Latvia, Hong Kong, the combined markets of
Beijing and Shanghai, and Singapore rose more. In Hong Kong,
where home values soared more than 50 percent since January 2009,
officials have also attempted to cool demand.  Prices have risen 27 percent in Israel since the first
quarter of 2009 to an average of 1.05 million shekels ($286,000),
according to the Central Bureau of Statistics. They have jumped
38 percent in Tel Aviv.  Old City  A penthouse in Jerusalem’s Musrara neighborhood, a five-
minute walk from the historic Old City, is listed for $5.8
million at RE/MAX Vision, according to the broker’s owner,
Alyssa Friedland. The property has 350 square meters (3,800
square feet) of space, a swimming pool, a spa and a balcony with
views of the Dome of the Rock landmark.  Demand is coming partly from wealthy North American and
European Jews wanting vacation homes or an ideological
investment in the Jewish State. These buyers have favored
Jerusalem, the Tel Aviv metropolitan area and the coastal resort
city of Netanya, though they are moving further afield as homes
get more expensive, according to  Amir Shaltiel , chairman of the
Eldar Group real estate company.  Like France and Germany, Israel so far has avoided the
global housing slump because it didn’t undergo the same credit
booms that countries such as the U.S. and Spain did in the years
leading up to 2008.  Land Supply  Fischer’s use of monetary policy to keep the market from
overheating can only go so far, because the price gains stem
largely from a lack of land for building, said  Ben-Zion Zilberfarb , professor of economics at Bar-Ilan University
outside Tel Aviv.  “The real problem is a shortage of housing in the
country’s center and the solution is increasing the supply,
which is up to the government,” said Zilberfarb, a former
director-general of the Finance Ministry.  About 70 percent of Israel’s 7.5 million people live on a
strip about 20 kilometers (12 miles) wide between the
Mediterranean Sea and the West Bank.  Some 93 percent of land in Israel is controlled by the
government, including property claimed by Palestinian residents
displaced during the country’s birth in 1948. Successive
administrations have kept a tight leash on real estate in the
central coastal plain in a largely unsuccessful attempt to
populate the Galilee region in the north and Negev desert in the
south.  Netanyahu’s Efforts  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  introduced a series of
measures on Nov. 15 to increase housing starts, including
offering a discount on property sold to developers who complete
most of their construction within 30 months.  “It’s virtually impossible to build anything in Israel,”
Netanyahu said in an interview on Nov. 9, citing the World
Bank’s 2011  Doing Business Survey , in which his country ranked
121st out of 183 in dealing with building permits.  The government has also proposed measures to reduce
bureaucratic procedures for new buildings, including setting
tighter deadlines for planning committees. According to the
World Bank survey, it usually takes about 235 days to build a
warehouse in Israel. That’s more than two months longer than the
average of 166 days for members of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Last year, Netanyahu pushed through legislation to free up
about 200,000 acres of government-owned land for private
development.  Hong Kong’s Boom  Hong Kong officials have taken similar steps to rein in a
market fueled by a recovering economy, low interest rates and an
influx of mainland Chinese buyers. They include boosting land
supply, raising some down payment requirements and no longer
offering residency to foreigners who purchase property.  For his part, Fischer is trying to balance concern over
rising home prices and inflation against maintaining an
expansionary monetary policy during the global economic recovery.
Economists including  John Taylor  of Stanford University, a
former Treasury undersecretary, have said that low rates under
former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  helped fuel the U.S. housing
boom and bust.  “One day people will go, ‘Gee, how did we ever get to pay
so much for housing, wasn’t that a mistake,’ and all of a sudden
you find yourself with a burst bubble,” Fischer, 67, told
journalists on Nov. 15.  “That we’ve got to avoid.”  M.I.T. Professor  Fischer, who became Bank of Israel governor in 2005, earned
a doctorate in economics at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology in 1969 and taught there over the next three decades.
From 1988 to 1990, he was chief economist at the Washington-
based World Bank. At the International Monetary Fund in the
1990s, he worked to resolve financial crises in Mexico, Russia
and Southeast Asia. From 2002 to 2005, he was vice chairman of
Citigroup Inc.  As the global financial crisis erupted in 2008, the Bank of
Israel began slashing the benchmark interest rate from 4.25
percent to an all-time low of half a percent by April 2009. It
has raised the rate by 1.5 percentage points since August last
year to 2 percent.  The central bank also issued directives on Oct. 25 to
tighten conditions on mortgage loans higher than 800,000 shekels.
Obtaining a mortgage in Israel generally requires a down payment
of between 30 percent and 40 percent.  Conflicting Data  There is at least some evidence that Fischer’s efforts are
starting to pay off. The Finance Ministry said on Nov. 23 that
new home prices dropped 2.9 percent in the third quarter from
the second and the number sold was the lowest since 2006. At a
banking conference in Tel Aviv last month, Fischer said it was
too early to draw conclusions about the current market because
of conflicting data.  While speaking in New York on Dec. 2, he said the central
bank will continue to take measures until housing prices are
under control.  “Stanley Fischer in a very short amount of time managed to
get Israel out of a near recession, so there’s this element of
commitment on his side,” said Roubini’s El Said. “They will
not allow another rise of 20 percent in housing prices in one
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 