-- Israel's Worst Forest Fire Brought Under Control After 41 Die, 17,000 Flee
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-12-05T16:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/israel-s-worst-forest-fire-brought-under-control-after-41-die-17-000-flee.html
Israeli firefighters backed by
aircraft from more than a dozen countries succeeded in gaining
control over a forest fire that left 41 dead and forced the
evacuation of some 17,000 people.  “The two main blazes are under control for the first time
since the fire broke out,” police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld 
said by phone. Fire and Rescue Services spokesman  Yoram Levy 
said that “from our perspective the fire is over.”  The fire, which began Dec. 2 and has destroyed more than
10,000 acres of forest, has been described by officials as the
worst in the country’s history and forced Israel to call on
friendly countries to send support.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , who held his weekly
cabinet meeting near the site of the blaze, halted requests
abroad to send firefighting planes and helicopters to Israel. He
made the statement in a text message to journalists.  Israel received more than 30 firefighting aircraft from the
U.S., U.K., Greece, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Turkey, France, Russia,
Italy, Spain, Germany, Switzerland and Jordan.  “The only way to deal with such fires is to combine ground
forces with air forces both local and foreign,” Netanyahu said,
pointing out that Russia and the U.S. have called in aid to
fight blazes. “This is also how superpowers behave.” His
remarks were broadcast on Army Radio.  Damage Estimate  The daily  Ma’ariv  estimated fire damage at 985 million
shekels ($272 million), without saying how it did the
calculation. The government doesn’t yet have an estimate, Shlomi
Sheffer, a Finance Ministry spokesman, said by phone.  The  Welfare Ministry  has allotted about 500 million shekels
to municipalities hit by the fire, said Pnina Ben Ami, a
spokeswoman. The Finance Ministry set aside several million
shekels to help local governments, minister  Yuval Steinitz’s 
office said in an e-mailed statement today.  Most damage to private property is insured and the
insurance companies are covered by reinsurance policies, the
Finance Ministry said on Dec. 3. Most of the damage to public
property is also insured, it said.  “There hasn’t been such a fiasco since the establishment
of the state,” said Haim Klein, a former police superintendent
said on Army Radio. “We don’t need an inquiry. We need to
launch a criminal investigation for criminal negligence.”  Interior Minister  Eli Yishai  responding to criticism,
saying in an interview on Army Radio that “I am responsible for
the fire department, but I don’t remember any other minister
fighting as much as I have for a budget increase.”  Suspects Arrested  Two suspects under the age of 18 were arrested yesterday
for allegedly causing the fire, Rosenfeld said, adding that the
blaze appeared to be caused by negligence and not arson.  The fire began in the Carmel hills south of Haifa, a city
with a population of 266,000. Exceptionally dry weather created
conditions that allowed the flames to spread quickly, said
Salman Abu Rukun, an employee of the  Israel Nature and National
Parks Protection Authority .  About 12,500 acres of forest have been destroyed by the
fire, Efi Stenzler, Chairman of the Jewish National Fund that
plants trees in Israel, told Channel 2 television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net  or
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  