-- 3M, American Eagle, Dollar General, Vivus: U.S. Equity Preview
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-12-06T14:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/j-m-smucker-urban-outfitters-whirlpool-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 8:45 a.m. in New York.       3M Co.  (MMM US) rose 0.1 percent to $87.05. The maker of
Scotch tape and optical films used to brighten TV screens agreed
to buy Zug, Switzerland-based Winterthur Technologies AG for
$448 million to expand in abrasive and grinding tools.       Aeropostale Inc.  (ARO US) slumped 1.2 percent to $22.82.
The New York-based teen apparel retailer was cut to “sell”
from “neutral” at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.       American Eagle Outfitters Inc.  (AEO US) gained 3.2 percent
to $16.28. The young-adult clothing retailer was raised to
“buy” from “neutral” by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.       Barnes & Noble Inc.  (BKS US) jumped 9.2 percent to $14.50.
 William Ackman ’s hedge fund, Pershing Square Capital
Management LLP, offered to finance Borders Group Inc.’s purchase
of the largest U.S. bookstore chain for $16 a share.       CNinsure Inc.  (CISG US) declined 3.6 percent to $16.18. The
insurance company and brokerage based in Guangzhou, China, was
cut to “neutral” from “overweight” at JPMorgan Chase & Co.       Dollar General Corp.  (DG US) dropped 2.8 percent to $32.50.
The discount retailer with more than 9,000 stores reported 25
million shares will be sold by members of senior management and
an entity tied to the directors of the Goodlettsville,
Tennessee-based company.  Human Genome Sciences Inc.  (HGSI US) slid 2.9 percent to
$24.85. The Rockville, Maryland-based drugmaker’s Benlysta, the
first new treatment for lupus in 52 years, needs more review by
U.S. regulators before it may be approved for sale. The Food and
Drug Administration extended the deadline for a decision to
March 10. Human Genome is developing the drug together with
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc  (GSK US).  J.M. Smucker Co.  (SJM US): The Orrville, Ohio-based maker
of jams, Folgers coffee and Jif peanut butter may rise 7 percent
in the next year as its food offerings and strong cash position
offset concern that the price of coffee will rise, Barron’s
said.  Massey Energy Co.  (MEE US) increased 1.8 percent to $51.35.
The Richmond, Virginia-based coal company said President Baxter
Phillips Jr. will succeed Don Blankenship as chief executive
officer after he retires on Dec. 31.  Oshkosh Corp.  (OSK US) gained 1.4 percent to $32.36. The
maker of all-terrain blast-proof trucks for the military was
awarded a $413.2 million firm-fixed-price contract for 1,800
family of medium tactical vehicles for the Army National Guard,
the U.S. Defense Department said on its website.  Pfizer Inc.  (PFE US) fell 0.7 percent to $16.60. The
world’s biggest drugmaker plans to seek regulatory approval next
year in Europe and the U.S. to sell bosutinib for patients with
chronic myeloid leukemia.  SandRidge Energy Inc.  (SD US) rose 3 percent to $5.80. The
oil producer was raised to a “buy” from “hold” at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co.  Urban Outfitters Inc.  (URBN US): The Philadelphia-based
operator of the namesake and Anthropologie clothing chains may
not be a bargain, Barron’s reported in its “The Trader”
column.       Verigy Ltd.  (VRGY US) rose 35 percent to $12.34. The maker
of semiconductor-testing equipment said it received an
unsolicited buyout offer from Tokyo-based Advantest Corp. at
$12.15 a share. Verigy’s Board will engage in discussions with
Advantest, though it determined the offer isn’t superior to a
pending transaction with LTX-Credence Corp. (LTXC US).       Vivus Inc.  (VVUS US) jumped 3.8 percent to $7.13. The
Mountain View, California-based drugmaker said avanafil for
erectile dysfunction met all primary endpoints in a phase 3
study.  Whirlpool Corp.  (WHR US) gained 1.2 percent to $81. Benton
Harbor, Michigan-based Whirlpool may rise on demand from
emerging markets, including Brazil, India and China, Barron’s
reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  at   ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 