-- Newcrest Halts Ivory Coast Mine, Randgold Mulls Unrest
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-12-06T16:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/newcrest-says-is-closely-monitoring-situation-in-the-ivory-coast.html
Newcrest Mining Ltd. , Australia’s
largest gold mining company, suspended operations at its Bonikro
mine in Ivory Coast on the weekend because of political unrest.
Randgold Resources Ltd. said it’s monitoring the situation.  The mine, located near Hire about 250 kilometers (155
miles) northwest of the commercial capital of Abidjan, produces
about 120,000 ounces of gold annually, Melbourne-based Newcrest
said today in a statement to the Australian stock exchange.  The West African nation has seen an increasingly violent
political crisis develop following a disputed Nov. 28 election
in which two rivals laid claim to the presidency. Former South
African President  Thabo Mbeki  has travelled to Ivory Coast
seeking to defuse the situation.  “Plans are in place to recommence operations as soon as
possible,” Newcrest said. “A detailed security plan is in
place and includes provision for temporary evacuation of
employees should the situation deteriorate.”  Randgold said its Tongon mine in the north of the country
was operating normally and it was monitoring the political and
security situation. Cargill Inc. is “experiencing some
challenges” while trying to operate as normally as possible.  Cluff Gold Plc’s operations are unaffected, spokesman Simon
Robinson said. The company’s Angovia mine in Ivory Coast
produces about 25 percent of its gold. Barry Callebaut AG, the
world’s biggest maker of bulk chocolate, said cocoa factories or
exports from the world’s largest grower haven’t been disrupted.  Newcrest acquired the Bonikro operation as part of the
takeover of Lihir Gold Ltd. that was completed this year.  Randgold fell 2.4 percent to 5,885 pence by the 4:30 p.m.
close of London trading, while Cluff slipped 2.8 percent to
111.5 pence. Newcrest rose 0.9 percent in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  