-- Obama Says Tax Cut Extension Must Include Jobless Benefits, Credit Plans
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2010-12-06T19:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/obama-says-tax-cut-extension-must-include-jobless-benefits-credit-plans.html
President  Barack Obama  said he is
willing to give ground to Republicans on extending Bush-era tax
cuts, as White House and congressional negotiators worked on a
deal that also would include extending federal  jobless  aid and
Obama’s own soon-to-expire tax policies.  “We’ve got to find consensus here” because letting taxes
rise for middle-income Americans would be a “drag” on the
economy, Obama said today in a speech at Forsyth Technical
Community College in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. “We’ve got
to make sure that we’re coming up with a solution even if it’s
not 100 percent what I want or what the Republicans want.”  Administration officials and Republican leaders have said
the two sides may be able to reach an accord on taxes within
days. Obama has told Democratic leaders in Congress he would
reject even a temporary extension of the Bush-era tax cuts if
the legislation doesn’t encompass his own policies, which
include the “Making Work Pay” tax credit that adds up to $800
per year in a married couple’s paycheck, an administration
official said.  “We should keep in place tax cuts for workers and small
businesses that are set to expire,” Obama said in North
Carolina. Extending aid to the unemployed is “not only the
right thing to do, it’s the smart thing to do. Because if
millions of Americans who aren’t getting unemployment benefits
stop spending money that slows down businesses, that slows down
hiring, it slows down our recovery.”  Legislative Deadlines  Negotiators are racing the calendar; the jobless aid ended
Nov. 30 and the Bush tax-cuts expire Dec. 31. Obama’s demands
would add about $150 billion in cost to the bill, all of which
would widen deficits. Allowing his own tax cuts to expire, Obama
told lawmakers, would result in a tax increase on 95 percent of
Americans, according to the official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  Obama met with Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  and
budget director  Jack Lew , his chief negotiators on the tax
package, this morning before leaving for North Carolina, the
official said.  Obama made his demands after Congress failed to advance
legislation that would renew the Bush-era policies only for
American individuals who earn less than $200,000 and couples who
make under $250,000, thresholds Obama set as a campaign promise.
The Senate on Dec. 4 rejected legislation with that cap as well
as another measure with a $1 million threshold.  Optimism on Deal  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said
it’s “pretty clear” Bush-era tax cuts will be extended and
that he is “optimistic” that Congress will strike a deal to
extend existing tax breaks before the end of the year.  “We’ve had more conversations in the last two weeks than
the last two years,” he said on NBC’s “Meet the Press”
program. “I think we’re going to get there.”  McConnell said he expects Congress to extend existing tax
rates on income, capital gains and dividends for all Americans,
including a temporary extension for high-income taxpayers. He
also said he expects that unemployment benefits will be
extended.  Obama is “confident” of reaching a deal with Congress to
extend tax cuts and unemployment benefits within the next few
days,  Bill Burton , deputy White House press secretary, told
reporters on Air Force One.  Permanent Extension  Republicans have pushed for a permanent extension of tax
breaks for all taxpayers, saying selective extensions would hurt
the economy.  “We don’t want no tax increases on nobody,”
Representative  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican, said on the
“Fox News Sunday” program. “That may be poor grammar, but
it’s great economics.”  Democrats would prefer to let the tax rates expire for
upper income taxpayers, while making the breaks permanent for
middle and lower-income families. Obama argues that extending
the cuts for the top rates permanently would be too costly. He
said today that “reducing our long-term deficit has to be a
priority.”  Still, both sides appear willing to compromise to avoid a
tax increase when the cuts expire at the end of the year.  Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah said he would be
willing to support a temporary two- or three-year extension of
tax breaks for upper income taxpayers.  No Permanent Cuts  “We would like it permanent, but we can’t, we don’t have
the votes,” he said on CNN’s “State of the Union.”  Asked on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program, if Democrats
would support extending tax cuts for the wealthy, Illinois
Senator  Dick Durbin , the second-ranking Democrat in the chamber,
said negotiations are “moving in that direction.”  Even as lawmakers talked of a deal, Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada scheduled matters other than tax cuts for Senate
floor time this week. That led  McConnell  to say Reid was
clogging the year-end agenda with less pressing legislation.  The floor agenda includes procedural votes on an
immigration bill, impeaching a federal judge, and compensation
for workers injured while cleaning up the World Trade Center
after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  “I think it’s time for the games to stop,” McConnell
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Dorning  in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Lerer 
Roger Runningen in Winston-Salem, North Carolina at 
   rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  