-- Oil Climbs to Highest in 26 Months on Speculation Fuel Demand May Increase
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-12-06T07:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/oil-rises-to-highest-in-26-months-on-optimism-demand-for-fuel-may-increase.html
Oil traded at the highest in 26
months as signs the economic recovery is gathering pace in the
U.S., the world’s biggest crude-consuming nation, stoked
speculation that fuel demand will increase.  Oil rose as much as 0.6 percent after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. may take more steps to
bolster the economy. A return to a recession “doesn’t seem
likely,” he said. Prices also gained as cold weather boosted
heating demand in Europe.  “Ninety dollars a barrel is now like a magnet that the
bulls in the market want to break through,” said  Victor Shum , a
senior principal at energy consultants Purvin & Gertz Inc. in
Singapore. “These days, sentiment is so bullish that any bad
news on the economic front can’t hurt the rally in oil.”  Crude for January delivery rose as much as 56 cents to
$89.75 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. That is the highest intraday price since Oct. 9, 2008.
The contract was at $89.72 at 3:36 p.m. Singapore time.  Oil will advance to $120 a barrel before the end of 2012 as
consumption grows in emerging economies, according to a Dec. 3
report by JPMorgan Chase & Co. Futures will average $93 a barrel
next year, up from a previous estimate of $89.75, the bank
forecast.  Crude settled at $89.19 a barrel on Dec. 3, the highest
closing price since Oct. 7, 2008. Prices are up 12.9 percent
this year.  Bullish Bets  Hedge funds and other large investors increased bullish
bets on oil last week as prices rose. The funds boosted so-
called net-long positions by 18 percent in the seven days ended
Nov. 30, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s weekly Commitments of Traders report. It was
the largest increase since the week ended Oct. 5.  Brent crude for January settlement gained as much as 58
cents, or 0.6 percent, to $92 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London. The contract climbed 0.8 percent to $91.42 a
barrel on Dec. 3.  “We’re right at the top end of the range” for crude
prices, said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of Commodity
Broking Services Pty in Sydney. “We have been running with this
explosive move,” since last week, he said.  Oil in New York is approaching a level observed by
technical analysts as a point where the rally may stall. This
price, at $89.84 a barrel, represents the so-called 50 percent
Fibonacci retracement of the drop to $32.40 in December 2008
from a record high of $147.27 in July that year, according to
Bloomberg data.  The Fibonacci sequence of numbers was identified by Italian
mathematician Leonardo Fibonacci in the 13th century and is used
to predict points where prices may rise or fall.  Oil rallied after Bernanke said the Fed may buy more
Treasury securities beyond the $600 billion announced last
month, according to a transcript of an interview airing today on
CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” program. Still,
unemployment may take five years to fall to a normal level, he
said.  Cold Weather  Crude also advanced as unusually cold weather in Europe
pushed heating oil prices to the highest in more than two years.  Gasoil, or heating oil, futures for December delivery
climbed as much as 1.8 percent to $775.50 a metric ton on
London’s ICE exchange today.  “The cold weather in Europe has helped squeeze up
distillates demand, and that is supportive of stronger oil
prices,” Purvin & Gertz’s Shum said.  The earliest widespread snowfall in the U.K. since 1993 has
frozen over roads, disrupting traffic, with icy weather likely
to last until at least Dec. 8, British Weather Services said
last week.  Temperatures from the U.S. Midwest to the Northeast will be
lower than normal from Dec. 8 through Dec. 16, the U.S. National
Weather Service Climate Prediction Center said.  -- With assistance from Yee Kai Pin in Singapore. Editors:
 Alexander Kwiatkowski ,  Clyde Russell   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Canberra at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at   akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net . 