-- Orient Overseas May Add Asian, Mideast Routes to Serve China, India Trade
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-12-06T03:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/orient-overseas-may-add-intra-asia-ships-on-china-india-trade.html
Orient Overseas (International) Ltd. ,
Hong Kong’s largest container-shipping line, may add services on
routes within Asia as the region’s economic recovery leads a
rebound in global shipping demand and rates.  “Intra-Asia is a bright spot,” Stephen Ng, director of
corporate planning, said in a Dec. 2 interview in Hong Kong.
“It’s the biggest market for this industry and it’s growing
faster than any other markets.” He didn’t elaborate on specific
routes the company is considering.  Volumes on Asian and Australasian routes jumped 21 percent
in the third quarter, outpacing growth for the U.S. and Europe
and prompting Orient Overseas to consider adding more vessels.
 A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S , the world’s largest container line, is
also set to increase  investments  in China and India in
anticipation of emerging market traffic growth outpacing demand
on U.S. and European routes.  “Intra-Asia routes are particularly lucrative for shipping
lines because they have short turnaround times, which helps cut
fuel usage and costs,” said  Johnson Leung , a shipping analyst
at Tufton Oceanic Far East Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Orient Overseas
is also managing costs well by using a larger share of its own
capacity instead of chartering.”  Container volumes in emerging markets will grow 7 percent
annually until 2015, more than triple the 2 percent expansion
expected in more mature economies, according to Copenhagen-based
Maersk.  Share Performance  Orient Overseas  fell 0.2 percent to HK$78.35 at 10:55 a.m.
in Hong Kong trading. The stock has more than doubled this year,
compared with a 7.6 percent gain on the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  Demand within Asia is helping drive a shipping industry
rebound after rates tumbled last year because of overcapacity
and slowing demand in the U.S. and Europe. Asia’s economy may
grow 7.9 percent this year, the  International Monetary Fund 
estimates.  Orient Overseas may charter some vessels to help meet
demand, Ng said. The company is due to take delivery of two
ships able to carry 8,000 boxes apiece next year, he said.  Global container shipping capacity may grow 9 percent next
year, compared with a 10 percent increase in demand, Ng said.  Capacity Balance  “There may be a balance in demand and supply growth,” Ng
said. “It’s more likely that we can maintain the momentum of
this year.”  The shipping line is considering buying vessels that can
carry as many as 13,000 20-foot boxes, Ng said. It hasn’t
started negotiations on these orders, he said. The shipping line
operates 85 vessels, with a total capacity of 384,889 twenty-
foot containers.  Orient Overseas’s  cargo volumes  on Intra-Asia and
Australasia routes jumped 19 percent in the first nine months,
making it the company’s fastest growing market. It accounted for
about 50 percent of total volumes.  Revenue on the sector jumped 47 percent to $835.8 million,
or about 30 percent of total sales. The transpacific was the
largest market in terms of revenue, while Asia-Europe had the
biggest increase, with sales more than doubling.  The shipping line’s third-quarter sales rose 66 percent to
$1.57 billion. Revenue in the first nine months climbed 48
percent to $4.1 billion, while volumes rose 13 percent to 3.1
million boxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  