-- PepsiCo Deal Sparks Best Bond Rally in 5 Months: Russia Credit
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-12-06T16:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/pepsico-sparks-best-bond-rally-in-five-months-with-wbd-deal-russia-credit.html
PepsiCo Inc.’s acquisition of  OAO
Wimm-Bill-Dann  is spurring the biggest bond market rally for the
Russian dairy and juice producer in at least five months as
investors speculate the deal will lead to higher credit ratings.  Yields on the Moscow-based company’s 2013 ruble notes had
their biggest two-day decline since the bonds were sold in July,
falling 54 basis points, or 0.54 percentage point, to 7.6
percent after the deal was announced on Dec. 2. The record-low
yields may fall a further 50 basis points, according to
Renaissance Capital and Alfa Bank.  The purchase by PepsiCo, which has better credit ratings
than the Russian government, will cut the extra yield on Wimm-
Bill-Dann bonds over sovereign debt known as OFZs to almost zero
from 131 basis points, according to  Maxim Tishin  at UFG Asset
Management. The acquisition will make Russia the largest market
outside the U.S. for the world’s biggest maker of snack foods.  “We expect Wimm-Bill-Dann ruble bonds to rally in the next
few days,” said  Dmitry Turmyshev , a fixed-income analyst at
Moscow-based Trust Investment Bank. “The possible acquisition
by PepsiCo definitely could be a very positive event for WBD’s
credit profile.”  Wimm-Bill-Dann  shares surged 58 percent after Pepsi said it
will buy a 66 percent stake for $3.8 billion and make an offer
for the rest of the shares.  The deal boosts expectations of further foreign purchases
in the food-retail industry, spurring gains for supermarket
chains  X5 Retail Group NV  and  O’Key Group SA , according to
Nomura Holdings Inc.  Safer Than Government?  PepsiCo is rated Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, four
levels above Russia’s government, and A by Standard & Poor’s,
three above the world’s biggest energy exporting nation. The
yield on the Purchase, New York-based company’s dollar bonds due
in 2020 at 3.66 percent on Dec. 3 was 110 basis points below
similar-maturity sovereign dollar bonds from Russia.  Wimm-Bill-Dann is ranked nine steps lower than PepsiCo at
Ba3 by Moody’s and seven steps short by S&P at BB-. S&P said
Dec. 3 it raised its outlook to “positive” from “stable”
after the deal. Moody’s said on Dec. 6 it placed the company on
review for a possible upgrade.  “There is a possibility of a rating increase because
PepsiCo will view Wimm-Bill-Dann as its strategic asset and will
improve its credit quality,”  Anton Geyze , an analyst at S&P in
Moscow, said in a phone interview on Dec. 3.  The deal would be “positive” for Wimm-Bill-Dann, said
 Larissa Loznova , a senior analyst at Moody’s in Moscow. “It
will provide access to marketing and other support from a
larger, more financially resourceful global company with a lot
of industry experience, although the dairy market is new for
PepciCo.”  ‘Fair Yield’  A rating upgrade may compress Wimm-Bill-Dann’s 2013 bond
yields by 50 basis points,  Elena Kolchina , who helps manage $1.5
billion of assets as head of fixed-income products at
Renaissance Asset Managers in Moscow, said on Dec. 3 by e-mail.
The company’s yield spread over government bonds would tighten
by about 100 basis points to 40 or 50 over OFZs during the first
stage of the deal, Turmyshev at Trust said.  Some “10-30 basis points over OFZs would be fair if and
when the deal closes,” according to  Tishin , who helps manage
$350 million of debt at UFG Asset Management in Moscow.  “Wimm-Bill-Dann’s fair yield is continuing to be
revalued,”  Ekaterina Leonova  and Tatyana Tsilyurik, analysts at
Moscow-based Alfa Bank, said in an e-mailed note on Dec. 3. “If
the company is unified, its debt is expected to become first
tier, implying a yield reduction of 30-50 basis points.”  Brazil, Mexico  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 rose today, pushing the
yield down 7 basis points to 4.745 percent. The price of the
country’s ruble notes due August 2016 also rose, driving the
yield 1 basis points lower to 7.31 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries rose 5 basis point to 215, according
to JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares with 136 for
the debt of similarly rated Mexico and 175 for Brazil, which is
rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 31 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was little changed at 149,
down from this year’s peak of 217, according to CMA. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s, its
third-lowest investment-grade rating, cost 17 basis points more
than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at
Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis points less on April
20.  The ruble was little changed at 31.2950 per dollar at the
close of official trading in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards,
or NDFs, which provide a guide to expectations of currency
movements and interest rate differentials and allow companies to
hedge against currency movements, show the ruble at 31.5138 per
dollar in three months.  The Wimm-Bill-Dann acquisition is subject to the Russian
Anti-Monopoly Service’s approval, meaning the earliest the deal
can be closed is March,  Mikhail Terentiev , an analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in London, said in an e-mailed note on Dec. 2.  “But we would not be surprised if the transaction takes
much longer,” he said.  Until then the bonds have “limited upside,” according to
 Alexander Dotkin , a trader at Bank Zenit, who holds Wimm-Bill-
Dann’s ruble bonds.  Antitrust Approval  “The main thing is whether the deal will be approved and
how quickly,” Dotkin said in an e-mailed response to questions
on Dec. 3. “The current spread over OFZs now is around 140-150
basis points and when the deal is approved by the Federal
Antimonopoly Service we may witness another 30 to 40 basis
points compression, but for now it is just an announcement.”  PepsiCo is “confident” the company will get antitrust
approval for the deal, Chief Executive Officer for Europe  Zein Abdalla  told reporters in Moscow on Dec. 2. It’s “too early”
to comment on “tactical questions” like buying back the
Russian company’s bonds or delisting its shares, PepsiCo’s
Abdalla said.  “Should the deal go through, Wimm-Bill-Dann credit risk
would indeed be re-rated,” Mikhail Galkin, an analyst at
Moscow-based VTB Capital, said in a report e-mailed on Dec. 3.
“The company will most likely be propelled to investment grade,
given the rating combination of PepsiCo.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 