-- Pratt & Whitney Connecticut Workers Ratify Contract
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-12-05T22:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/pratt-whitney-connecticut-workers-ratify-contract-plant-to-be-closed.html
United Technologies Corp.  workers at
its Pratt & Whitney unit in Connecticut ratified a three-year
contract today, and the company said it would close its Cheshire
plant as part of the agreement.  The labor pact covers about 3,400 employees in Middletown,
Cheshire and East Hartford, United Technologies said in a
statement. There will be layoffs at the Cheshire plant and at
the repair operations at East Hartford.  Under the contract, workers will receive a 3 percent wage
increase effective immediately, and 2.5 percent increases in
December 2011 and 2012, according to the company. The company
will also increase its contribution to the workers’ pension and
savings plans.  Pratt & Whitney builds, overhauls and repairs jet engines
at the plants and said it will assist employees affected by the
Cheshire closure. Those employees not placed will be laid off by
July 2011. The company also said it will offer buyout packages
to as many as 500 workers across its Connecticut operations.  The Connecticut Airfoil Repair Operations, located on the
East Hartford campus, has about 115 employees represented by the
International Association of Machinists, according to the
company. Cheshire has 386 IAM-represented employees.  It’s difficult to predict how many employees will choose to
take the special separation program, Bryan Kidder, a spokesman
for Pratt & Whitney said in an e-mail today.  James Parent, a spokesman for the IAM, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  Unprofitable Plant  United Technologies lawyers said in court in February that
the Cheshire plant hadn’t been profitable for several years,
primarily because of high labor and overhead costs.  United Technologies, which also makes Sikorsky helicopters,
Hamilton Sundstrand aerospace equipment, Otis elevators and
Carrier air conditioners, is Connecticut’s largest private
employer with 26,000 of its more than 200,000 workers stationed
in the state.  General Electric Co. is the world’s biggest jet-engine
maker, followed by Rolls-Royce Group Plc and Pratt & Whitney.
United Technologies’ shares rose 4 cents to close at $78.74 on
Dec. 3 in New York trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krista Giovacco  in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net ;
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier in New York at   swier@bloomberg.net  