-- Qatar Shares Surge to Two-Year High on Winning World Cup Bid; Barwa Jumps
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-12-05T14:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/qatar-shares-surge-to-two-year-high-on-winning-world-cup-bid-barwa-jumps.html
Qatar’s shares rose to the highest in
two years after the country won rights to host soccer’s 2022
World Cup, becoming the first Arab nation to hold the world’s
most-watched sporting event.  Qatar National Bank , the emirate’s biggest lender by
assets, climbed to the highest in more than five years.  Barwa
Real Estate Co.,  Qatar’s largest publicly traded property
developer by assets, gained 6.2 percent. The  QE Index  advanced
3.6 percent to 8,477.32 at the 12:30 p.m. close in Doha, the
highest since October 2008. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index 
increased 0.7 percent and Egypt’s  EGX 30 Index  rose 1.1 percent.  “Sentiment is understandably flying extremely high,” said
 Akber Khan , a director at Al Rayan Investment in Doha. “There
will be a material impact on some companies as the government
fast-tracks billions of dollars of spending. Banks, real estate
and construction-related names would be among the key
beneficiaries.”  Qatar, projected by the International Monetary Fund to have
the world’s fastest-growing economy this year, plans to more
than double the number of hotel rooms, build nine stadiums and
refurbish three others and construct a rail and metro network
for the tournament. The U.S. estimates that the tournament is
worth $5 billion to the hosts.  Shares valued at about 1.2 billion riyals ($330 million)
traded in Qatar today, the most since June 2008. Qatar National
Bank jumped 4.5 percent to 183.6 riyals, the highest since
September 2005.  Barwa Real Estate Co.  rose to 36 riyals, the
highest since October 2009.  Air-conditioned Stadium  The country plans to spend $4 billion on the stadium
construction and refurbishment program. With summer temperatures
approaching 50 degrees Celsius (122 Fahrenheit), each facility
will be designed with a solar-powered air-conditioning system. A
new 200,000-population city called Lusail, north of the capital,
is scheduled to be built over the next decade and will feature
the stadium that hosts the World Cup final.  Qatar expects to construct a rail and metro network,
costing more than $25 billion, in Doha and extending to cities
outside the capital. It’s also planning the longest bridge in
the world to connect to the nearby island kingdom of Bahrain,
and aims to open a new airport next year.  Orascom Construction Industries  jumped 3.2 percent, the
most since May 26, on speculation the Cairo-based company may
get World Cup contracts. “It is poised for more gains tomorrow
as investors expect the company to be awarded more contracts in
Qatar,” said  Ashraf Akhnoukh , senior equity sales trader at
Cairo-based Commercial International Brokerage Co.  Australia  Soccer’s ruling body, the Federation Internationale de
Football Association, or FIFA, announced that Qatar won the
World Cup bid in Zurich Dec. 2 after competing with the U.S.,
Australia, Japan and South Korea. Russia was chosen to host the
2018 tournament.  Industries Qatar,  the second-biggest petrochemicals maker
in the Middle East, advanced 4.3 percent to 135 riyals.  Crude oil rose to the highest level in 25 months, with oil
for January delivery settling at $89.19 a barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange on Dec. 3. Futures increased 6.5 percent
last week and 12 percent this year. The six Gulf Arab nations,
including Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, supply
about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Regional Movements  Bahrain’s  All Share Index  gained 0.3 percent, Kuwait’s
 gauge  increased 0.7 percent and Oman’s  MSM30 Index  advanced 0.5
percent. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  retreated 0.3
percent after gaining 1.2 percent yesterday. Markets in the
U.A.E. are closed today for an Islamic holiday.  The  TA-25 Index  rose to a record, adding 1.6 percent at the
close in Tel Aviv as  Perrigo Inc.  climbed 4.8 percent to 234.50
shekels after the manufacturer of over-the-counter
pharmaceuticals was rated “buy” in new coverage at UBS AG.  Israeli bonds fell, with the yield on the benchmark 5
percent Mimshal Shiklit due January 2020 rising 1 basis point to
4.65 percent, the highest level since July 15.  -- With assistance from  David Wainer  in Tel Aviv and Ahmed A
Namatalla in Cairo. Editors:  Claudia Maedler ,  Shanthy Nambiar .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  