-- Trade Deficit in U.S. Probably Little Changed in October as Exports Rise
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-12-05T05:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/trade-deficit-in-u-s-probably-little-changed-in-october-as-exports-rise.html
The U.S. trade deficit was probably
little changed in October, reflecting a rise in exports as the
 dollar  weakened and economies overseas led the global recovery,
analysts said before a report this week.  The  gap  held at $44 billion for a second month, according
to the median of 60 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey ahead
of Commerce Department figures Dec. 10. Other reports may show
consumer  confidence  climbed this month and the cost of imported
goods rose at a slower pace in November.  Importers in China, Brazil and Singapore are among the top
10 buyers of American-made goods this year as their economies
grew in excess of 8 percent, almost three times as much as the
U.S., benefitting companies like  General Dynamics Corp.  The
gains in  exports  are offsetting increasing U.S. purchases abroad
as the world’s largest economy recovers.  “Exports will rebound because of strong growth overseas
and the weaker dollar,” said  Zach Pandl , an economist at Nomura
Securities International Inc. in New York. “We can expect
imports to increase as domestic demand improves. The trade
balance is likely to be stable in coming months, which would
still be a pretty good outcome during an expansion.”  Along with export-driven growth at factories, the economy
is getting help from increases in consumer spending, which may
keep rising as Americans gain confidence.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s preliminary
household sentiment index rose to 72.5 this month, the highest
level since June, according to the Bloomberg survey median. The
gauge averaged 89 in the five years leading up to the recession
that began in December 2007. The report is also due Dec. 10.  Employment Cools  One reason confidence remains below pre-slump levels is the
lack of job growth. Payrolls grew by 39,000 in November, less
than the most pessimistic forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, Labor Department figures showed on Dec. 3. The
jobless rate climbed to 9.8 percent, underscoring the Federal
Reserve’s decision to pump more money into the financial system.  The employment report pushed the dollar down to a three-
week low versus the yen and lower against many of its most-
traded counterparts. Since reaching a one-year high on June 7,
the dollar has weakened 5.3 percent against a trade-weighted
 basket  of currencies.  The decline makes American-made goods cheaper to buyers
abroad, providing more support to manufacturing, which a report
from the Institute for Supply Management last week showed
expanded for a 16th consecutive month in November.  Emerging Markets  China, set to become the world’s second-largest economy
this year, expanded 9.6 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier. Brazil, South America’s largest economy, grew 8.8
percent in the April through June period from the second quarter
of 2009. Singapore’s economy, in the running to be the world’s
fastest-growing this year, expanded 10.6 percent in the third
quarter from a year ago.  General Dynamics, based in Falls Church, Virginia, last
month announced its Gulfstream business-jet making unit would
spend $500 million and add 1,000 jobs in Savannah, Georgia, to
meet a growing market for large-cabin aircraft. Chief Executive
Officer  Jay Johnson  this month reinforced optimism about
overseas demand.  “We continue to experience strong international order
activity and interest, particularly in the emerging markets,”
he said in a Dec. 2 industry conference presentation.  Shares of manufacturers have increased more this year than
the broader indexes. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Industrial  Machinery Index  has climbed 40 percent through Dec.
3, while the S&P 500 gained 9.8 percent.  Among other reports, Labor Department figures may show
prices of goods imported into the U.S. rose 0.8 percent in
November after a 0.9 percent gain the prior month, according to
the Bloomberg survey median, reflecting higher costs for crude
oil and metals due to the weaker dollar.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  