-- Riversdale Says Rio Tinto Made $3.46 Billion Initial Offer for Coalminer
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2010-12-06T17:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/rio-tinto-makes-3-46-billion-initial-bid-for-african-coalminer-riversdale.html
Riversdale Mining Ltd. , an Australian
developer of coal mines in Africa, said it held talks with  Rio
Tinto Group  on a potential A$3.5 billion ($3.46 billion)
takeover proposal.  “The company has had discussions with Rio Tinto concerning
a possible transaction at the corporate level for indicative
consideration of A$15 per Riversdale share,” the Sydney-based
miner said today in a statement. Its  stock  jumped to the highest
price in a decade.  “We note the statement,” Rio Tinto spokeswoman Karen
Halbert said today by telephone, declining to comment further.
Riversdale’s biggest holder, India’s  Tata Steel Ltd. , said it
will continue to monitor the situation regarding its “valuable
strategic investment.”  Coal deals this year have more than doubled after imports
by China, the biggest consumer, surged fivefold in 2009. Walter
Energy Inc. bid C$3.3 billion ($3.28 billion) for Western Coal
Corp. last month, while  Nathaniel Rothschild ’s Vallar Plc agreed
to buy stakes in Indonesia’s PT Bumi Resources and BT Berau Coal
Energy to build one of the world’s largest coal producers.  Riversdale’s coal resources in Mozambique total 13 billion
metric tons, split between the $2 billion Zambeze project and
the Benga license, according to the company’s  website .  “Riversdale has very large resources in Mozambique,” said
 Grant Craighead , managing director of Sydney-based research
company Stock Resource. “The challenge for Rio is finding
assets big enough to make a material difference to the company
and this fits that criteria.”  Shares Gain  Riversdale  rose 16 percent to A$16.31 in Sydney trading,
the highest close since March 2000.  Rio  advanced 0.9 percent to
4,456.5 pence at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, after retreating
0.5 percent in Sydney.  The proposed bid is a 16 percent premium to Riversdale’s
average share price over the 20 days through Dec. 3. The average
premium for coal-industry deals announced this year is 26
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rio is studying small-to-medium-sized acquisitions that are
likely to be in the low “single-digit billion dollar range,”
Chief Financial Officer  Guy Elliott  said Nov. 26. A bid for
Riversdale fits with the company’s mergers and acquisitions
strategy, Liberum Capital Ltd. said today in a note to clients.  Support Needed  Rio would need to win the support of Riversdale’s major
holders, including  Tata , which owns a 24.16 percent stake and a
35 percent interest in the Benga project.  “Tata Steel views Riversdale Mining as a valuable
strategic investment and continues to be interested in
developing the tenements of the company,” the Mumbai-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement. “Tata Steel will
continue to monitor the situation and will take appropriate
action as deemed necessary.”  Benga may produce about 1.7 million tons a year of coking
coal and 300,000 tons of thermal coal, with first exports
expected in the second half of next year, according to
Riversdale’s website. Coking coal is used by steelmakers and
thermal coal fuels power plants.  Rio produced 7.5 million tons of hard coking coal from its
operations in Australia’s Queensland state in 2009, according to
a Jan. 14 statement. The company’s production growth in coking
coal is estimated by Liberum at 12 percent over the next three
years, meaning “this approach would hold strategic merit,” the
brokerage said.  Mine Sites  Rio, based in London, already has nine thermal coal mines
in Australia and the U.S., one coking coal operation in
Australia and two other mines that produce both types. Two
thermal mines are under development, according to its  website .  “While discussions with Rio Tinto are ongoing, there is no
certainty that Rio Tinto or any other party will proceed with
any proposal,” Riversdale said in the statement. “Rio Tinto
advised the company that it is not in a position to submit a
proposal for the acquisition of the company.”  Riversdale is valued at 13 Australian cents for every
metric ton of coal resources, the company said in September.
That compares with an average of A$3.03 for selected
transactions from December 2007 to August 2010, it said.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. ’s A$3.5 billion takeover of Felix
Resources Ltd. last year cost A$5.22 a ton, according to
Riversdale.  Not ‘Takeover Proof’  Riversdale’s top three shareholders together hold 50.6
percent of the company, according to Bloomberg data. That may
not make them “takeover proof,” Credit Suisse Group AG said in
May, noting that  Peabody Energy Corp. ’s bid for Macarthur Coal
Ltd. would have allowed holders to retain their stakes. The deal
didn’t succeed.  Mary Beth Grover, a spokeswoman for U.S. hedge fund
Passport Capital LLC, Riversdale’s second-largest holder,
declined to comment. A Sao Paulo-based press officer for
Brazilian steelmaker  Cia Siderurgica Nacional SA , the third-
largest holder, also declined to comment.  Other potential suitors include  Vale SA , the world’s
biggest iron ore exporter, which has existing operations in
Mozambique, UBS AG said today in a report. A Vale press
officer in Rio de Janeiro declined to comment.  Riversdale is already in talks with  Wuhan Iron & Steel
Corp.  on a potential $800 million investment by the Chinese
steelmaker for a 40 percent stake in the Zambeze project and 8
percent of Riversdale. Discussions are continuing after a
deadline for an agreement expired, Riversdale said Oct. 27.  Contract coking-coal prices climbed this year as the global
economic recovery spurred competition between steelmakers in
Japan and China. Prices may be “strong” in the short term
because of a supply shortage, Stock Resource’s Craighead said.  Rio has repaired its  balance sheet  after debt ballooned 19-
fold following its $38.1 billion purchase of Alcan Inc. in 2007.
The company had net debt of $12 billion as of Aug. 5. Its
biggest revenue unit is iron ore, which accounted for 28 percent
of sales last year. Aluminum is the second-biggest earner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  