-- Rogue Shark Kills German Tourist in Egypt's Red Sea Resort Sharm El-Sheikh
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-12-05T15:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/rogue-shark-kills-german-tourist-in-egypt-s-red-sea-resort-sharm-el-sheikh.html
A shark mauled a German tourist to
death at an Egyptian Red Sea resort where three others have been
attacked in the past week.  The 70-year-old woman was swimming off Sharm El-Sheikh when
she was attacked, the state-run  Middle East News Agency  reported
today, citing Mohamed El-Khatib, the director of South Sinai
Security Directorate. The killing comes after a shark attacked
and seriously injured two snorkelers on Nov. 30 to the north of
Namaa Bay. A third swimmer was attacked the following day.  Hurghada Environmental Protection and Conservation
Association , a non-governmental organization, said pictures of a
captured oceanic whitetip shark and a dead mako shark that
authorities said were responsible for the first attacks did not
match photographs of a larger whitetip taken by the divers
before they were attacked. “It is clear that they don’t show
the same individual,” it said in a statement posted on its
website Dec. 3, a day before authorities reopened beaches in the
area. Tourism Minister  Zoheir Garranah  wasn’t available for
comment.  Millions of tourists visit Egypt’s eastern coastline every
year seeking sun, sand and diving. Tourism accounts for 12.6
percent of jobs in the country, and the government expects
revenue to increase more than 17 percent this year to as much as
$13 billion, Garranah said in an interview in October.  Authorities have closed off the area for a second time and
suspended swimming and diving in Sharm El-Sheikh temporarily,
the state-run news agency said. A French tourist was killed in a
shark attack in June 2009 in the resort town, in the first such
fatal incident in five years.  Lone Killer  A study of oceanic whitetips in the Egyptian part of the
Red Sea has shown that only 11 sharks approaching the size of
the whitetip believed responsible for the attack on the
snorkelers last week had been “documented” during the past six
years, the environmental group said by e-mail.  “These observations support the idea that the string of
attacks is the result of a single individual behaving in a
highly atypical way,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 