-- Senate Rejects Tax-Cut Plans as Negotiators Seek Compromise on Lower Rates
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r   a n d   P e t e r   C o h n
-- 2010-12-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/senate-rejects-tax-cut-plans-as-negotiators-seek-compromise-on-lower-rates.html
The U.S. Senate rejected two tax-cut
extension proposals in procedural votes as talks continued that
lawmakers say likely will result in renewal of lower rates for
all taxpayers.  The votes followed passage Dec. 2 in the House of a measure
that would extend tax cuts only on the first $200,000 of
individual income and $250,000 for a married couple, setting the
stage for the emergence of compromise legislation.  Senator  Robert Corker , a Tennessee Republican,
congressional and administration negotiators likely will reach
an agreement by the end of the week on tax-cut extensions.  “There’ll be a deal by the end of next week,” Corker said
yesterday. “It’ll be existing policy, in my opinion, and maybe
some other attachments.”  In the voting, largely along party lines, the Senate
rejected, 53-36, a measure to extend Bush-era tax policies set
in 2001 and 2003 on the first $200,000 of an individual’s income
and $250,000 for a married couple. A second proposal to set that
threshold at $1 million also failed, 53-37. The votes fell short
of the 60 necessary to clear procedural hurdles and pass.  Democratic Opposition  Four Senate Democrats and independent  Joe Lieberman  of
Connecticut joined all present Republicans in opposing the first
measure setting the tax-cut threshold at $250,000. They included
 Russ Feingold  of Wisconsin,  Joe Manchin  of West Virginia,  Jim Webb  of Virginia, and  Ben Nelson  of Nebraska.  Lieberman and Feingold also voted with three other
Democrats in opposing the $1 million threshold. They included
 Tom Harkin  of Iowa,  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, and  Jay Rockefeller  of West Virginia.  Lawmakers and administration officials have said a
compromise likely would extend lower tax rates on income and
capital gains and dividends for all Americans, including high-
income taxpayers, for two or three years.  Republicans oppose extending only the middle-income tax
cuts, saying selective extensions would hurt job creation and
economic growth.  Obama Disappointed  President  Barack Obama  told reporters in Washington
yesterday that he’s “very disappointed” the Senate failed to
end an “impasse” over the expiring tax cuts.  “We need to redouble our efforts to resolve this,” he
said. Obama said he wants the issue resolved “in the next few
days.” He also said Congress must pass an extension of jobless
benefits.  The votes last week gave Senate Democrats an opportunity
to express displeasure with Obama and Republicans who’ve railed
against budget deficits for allowing the Bush-era tax cuts to
continue for those with the highest incomes.  During the floor debate, Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of
Nevada compared Republicans with the character Lucy in the
“Peanuts” comic strip gag where she repeatedly tricks Charlie
Brown by inviting him to kick a football, only to yank the ball
away at the last second.  “It’s obvious by now that our Republican friends have
drawn their political strategy from this cartoon,” Reid said.
“We’ve all heard Republicans weep for the deficit. They’ve
pulled away the football and said rather than reduce the
deficit, we’d really rather give an unnecessary, unwanted,
unaffordable handout to the richest of the rich.”  Reid’s Schedule  Even as lawmakers talked of a deal, Reid was scheduling
matters other than tax cuts for Senate floor time this week.
That led Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky to
say Reid was clogging the year-end agenda with less pressing
legislation.  The floor agenda includes procedural votes on, among other
things, an immigration bill, impeaching a federal judge, and
compensation for workers injured while cleaning up the World
Trade Center after the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.  “I think it’s time for the games to stop,” McConnell
said.  The first bill rejected yesterday was offered by Senate
Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus . In addition to extending
lower tax rates for middle-income taxpayers, it would retain the
15 percent tax rate on capital gains and dividends for people
earning under $250,000, who comprise about 97 percent of all
taxpayers. Higher tax rates would be allowed to take effect Jan.
1 on higher incomes.  The Baucus bill also reinstates dozens of expired business
tax breaks, rolls back a $66 billion alternative minimum tax
increase on the books for 2010, and reinstates a federal tax on
multimillion-dollar estates that lapsed this year for the first
time in nearly a century.  The second bill, preserving the tax cuts on the first $1
million of income, was proposed by Senator  Charles Schumer , a
New York Democrat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net ;  Peter Cohn  in Washington at 
   pcohn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  