-- S. Korea Sees ‘Limited’ Impact on Cars Trade Deal
-- B y   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 2010-12-06T03:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/south-korea-sees-limited-impact-on-auto-industry-from-u-s-trade-accord.html
South Korea said the revised free
trade agreement with the U.S. is mutually beneficial and won’t
hurt the nation’s carmakers.  The countries agreed on Dec. 3 to revise the stalled free-
trade accord and change provisions for automobiles and pork. The
U.S. will now end its 2.5 percent tariff on automobiles in five
years, instead of immediately or after three years, as was
previously agreed. South Korea will cut its 8 percent tariff on
U.S. automobile imports to 4 percent immediately, instead of
eliminating it entirely, according to a White House fact sheet.  “South Korean car sales to the U.S. will see limited
impact from the revision,” Trade Minister  Kim Jong Hoon  said in
a briefing from Seoul yesterday.  With almost $68 billion in trade between the nations, a
deal would be the U.S.’s largest since the North American Free
Trade Agreement in 1994, and would help President  Barack Obama 
meet his goal of doubling American exports in five years. It was
backed by U.S. companies including  Citigroup Inc. ,  Caterpillar
Inc. ,  General Electric Co.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.   Shares of Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s biggest carmaker,
declined 2.2 percent to 180,000 won at 12:35 p.m. in Seoul.
Hyundai Mobis, an auto-parts maker that will benefit from the
complete removal of tariffs, was set for a record close after
rising 2 percent to 301,500 won.  The U.S. will maintain a 25 percent tariff on truck imports
for eight years instead of beginning to phase it out immediately.
In addition, each U.S. automaker will be able to send South
Korea 25,000 cars a year that meet U.S. safety standards. They
would be exempt from separate South Korean standards.  Opposition Party  South Korea’s main opposition Democratic Party said the
deal is “humiliating” and vowed to block its passage in the
National Assembly.  “The unfair revisions would open our domestic market wider
while allowing the U.S. to close theirs,” the Democratic Party,
which has 87 seats of 299 seats in the parliament, said
yesterday on its website.  The ruling Grand National Party, which controls the
National Assembly with 171 seats, welcomed the deal.  “The agreement will remove uncertainty, helping boost
sales and competitiveness of South Korean cars in the U.S.,”
the  Korea Automobile Manufacturers Association  said in an e-
mailed statement.  The industry group estimates South Korean car sales in the
U.S. will reach 950,000 this year, including 500,000 shipped
from South Korea and 450,000 produced in U.S plants.  European Cars  U.S. market share in South Korea slid to 10.1 percent of
imported car sales last year, from 11.3 percent in 2008,
according to Korea Automobile  Importers and Distributors
Association . European cars held a 62 percent market share in
2009, with Japanese brands on 28 percent.  “Korean consumers prefer premium sedans from Europe and
Japan, or small Korean-made cars to U.S. brands,” Song Won Gun,
a senior research fellow at the Korea Economic Research
Institute in Seoul, said before the announcement.  The U.S. agreed to higher tariffs on its pork products for
a longer time period. The 25 percent tariff on U.S. pork imports
will be eliminated in 2016, two years later than the previous
deadline, Kim said.  “The revision is not a result of our one-sided concession,
but supports benefits for both countries,” he said.  Korean Farmers  The extension of the deadline is a significant achievement
for the nation’s farmers, the  Korea Swine Association  said in a
statement on its website. “We’re very relieved.”  Kim said the accord makes no new provision on beef. U.S.
Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat,
who demanded that South Korea drop restrictions on U.S. beef
imports from older cattle, said he was unhappy with the
agreement.  “Beef was not on the agenda during the talks and not
included in the revision,” Kim said.  American beef producers lobbied to get the deal completed
quickly to gain an advantage over competitors in Australia by
securing cuts in a 40 percent South Korean tariff. Once the deal
is in place, U.S. pork and beef exports to South Korea could
increase by $2 billion a year, the American Meat Institute
estimates.  Economic Benefit  “The free trade deal with the U.S. will bring huge
economic benefit to both countries,” South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said in a statement on the website of the presidential
office. Lee said the agreement will help the alliance between
the two countries move a step forward, according to the
statement.  The trade accord is a “win-win for both our countries,”
Obama told reporters in Washington. It will level the playing
field for automakers, boost U.S. exports by as much as $11
billion, support job growth and enhance the U.S. partnership
with South Korea, Obama said.  The pact will significantly boost South Korea’s exports
through industries from autos, textiles and electronics to
chemicals, South Korea’s Ministry of Knowledge Economy said in
an e-mailed statement.  South Korea’s trade surplus with the U.S. will widen by
$463 million annually over 10 years, helped by increased exports
of automobiles, electronics and textiles, after the pact,
according to a 2007 study by South Korean think tanks, including
the Korea Institute for International Economic Policy.
Agricultural imports from the U.S. will grow by $370 million
annually over 15 years, led by pork and beef, according to the
study.  South Korea reported a trade surplus of $8.6 billion with
the U.S. in 2009, with $37.6 billion in exports, according to
the Korea International Trade Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  