-- Swan Steps Up Pressure on Banks With Call for Australians to Shop Around
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-12-06T02:42:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/swan-urges-bank-customers-to-seek-options-amid-competition-plan.html
Australia’s four biggest banks, led
by  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and  Westpac Banking Corp. ,
face mounting competition after Treasurer  Wayne Swan  urged
customers to turn to credit unions and building societies.  “Competition from smaller lenders in the banking sector
has to be activated by empowering consumers to shop around,”
Swan said yesterday in a  statement . “I’d encourage every
Australian family to check out the range of products on offer.”  Swan has said he’ll issue proposals this month to reduce
the dominance of the four lenders, which also include  National
Australia Bank Ltd.  and  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd.  Calls from politicians to rein in the quartet have mounted
after some posted record profits and they boosted mortgage rates
faster than the central bank raised borrowing costs last month.  “It seems that a left-leaning Federal government is
determined to see major banks become less profitable and
dominant,”  Craig Williams , a Melbourne-based analyst at
Citigroup Inc., said in a report today. “It’s hard to get too
positive about the outlook for the banking sector in
Australia.”  National Australia Bank fell 0.8 percent today in Sydney,
while Commonwealth Bank declined 0.5 percent. Westpac slid 0.2
percent and ANZ Bank was little changed.  Many Australians don’t know they can buy financial services
from 60 credit unions and building societies, which are
institutions owned by their customers, at post offices,
according to Swan. He will probably present his proposals,
including ways to help them issue more loans, to the Cabinet
today and an announcement is likely Dec. 9 or Dec. 10, according
to the Melbourne-based Age  newspaper .  Cost of Funding  Public debate on competition in financial-services is
intensifying as banks and officials contribute to a Senate
inquiry. Central Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  is due to appear
before the committee on Dec. 13.  Westpac, Australia’s second-largest lender, last week
published its submission, saying there are currently 179
entities competing to sell banking services.  Chief Executive Officer  Gail Kelly  called on the government
to introduce measures that reduce major banks’ reliance on
offshore funds, which has become more expensive following the
global financial crisis. The biggest banks have blamed those
 costs  for driving up mortgage prices. Kelly also said a “wide-
ranging” inquiry should wait as long as four years, until the
effect of new worldwide liquidity and capital rules become
clearer.  Tighter Grip  In an interview published Dec. 4 in the Australian
Financial Review, Kelly said the only way to reduce mortgage
prices is to help banks obtain cheaper sources of funding.  Australia’s four largest banks used the global financial
crisis to tighten their grip on the home-loan market as smaller
bank struggled to access credit. The major banks, dubbed the
“Four Pillars” after a law preventing takeovers among them,
account for about 88 percent of the residential home lending
market, according to data from the  Australian Prudential
Regulatory Authority .  Credit unions and building societies argue that the country
needs more competition and have asked the government to
introduce policies to help them access funding.  In a Nov. 30 submission to the senate inquiry, the
 Association of Building Societies and Credit Unions  asked for
the introduction of a flat-fee guarantee of wholesale debt
funding for smaller lenders.  The government has invested A$16 billion ($15.7 billion) in
Triple-A rated residential mortgage-backed securities to support
smaller lenders and lower the cost of funds, Swan said yesterday.  Australia’s largest banks are already poised to face
greater competition in other areas.  AMP Ltd. , which is buying the Australian and New Zealand
units of  Axa Asia Pacific Holdings Ltd. , plans to use the deal
to compete with the wealth-management businesses of the largest
banks, AMP Chief Executive Officer  Craig Dunn  told yesterday’s
Inside Business program on the Australian Broadcasting Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  