-- U.K. Lawmaker Dismisses `Ludicrous' Allegation Russian Employee Is a Spy
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-12-05T12:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/u-k-lawmaker-hancock-dismisses-ludicrous-russian-spy-claim.html
U.K. lawmaker  Mike Hancock  said
reports in the  Sunday Times  newspaper that his Russian
researcher in the House of Commons is being deported for spying
are “ludicrous.”  Hancock, who is a member of the governing coalition’s
Liberal Democrat party and sits on the  defense select
committee , said the immigration status of Katia Zatuliveter had
been investigated for “several months” and he was surprised
at the speed of the decision to deport her.  “It’s ludicrous; no one has ever showed me any
evidence,” Hancock said in a telephone interview. “I am
surprised at the swiftness of the decision to remove her. It
seems a bit strange.”  Hancock, who represents Portsmouth, where there is a Royal
Navy base, told the Press Association newswire that
Zatuliveter, 25, is appealing the decision to deport her. “She
is not a Russian spy,” he told PA. “She is appealing because
she feels, quite rightly, that she has done nothing wrong.”  Zatuliveter was questioned by immigration officials after
returning to the U.K. from a holiday in Croatia in the summer,
the  Daily Mail reported  on Aug. 30.  The Home Office declined to comment on the allegations.
“We do not routinely comment on individual cases,” Rhiannon
Spellman, a spokeswoman for the department, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Hancock has rebelled against the coalition government,
voting against legislation changing the governance of schools
and increasing VAT, a sales tax. He also wrote  a letter  to
party leader and Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  on Sept. 19
warning him to maintain party democracy and not lead the
Liberal Democrats as a “dictatorship.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 