-- Vale Plans 311 Million Tons Iron-Ore Output in 2011
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-05T08:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/vale-plans-311-million-tons-iron-ore-output-in-2011-branco-says.html
Vale SA , the world’s biggest exporter
of iron ore, plans to produce 311 million tons next year to meet
expected demand in Asia for the raw material used to make steel.  Roberto Castello Branco, Vale’s director of investor
relations, made the forecast today at a press conference in Hong
Kong, where the Brazilian company will list depositary receipts
on Dec. 8 to demonstrate its commitment to Asia.  Global demand for iron ore will outweigh supply in the next
few years due to growth in Asia, Chief Financial Officer
Guilherme Cavalcanti said at the conference. Vale may also seek
to list in Shanghai when possible, he said, without giving any
timetable.  “The main part of our production increase will be directed
to Asia,” Cavalcanti said,  Vale’s listing, involving 259 million common depositary
receipts and as many as 393 million Class A preferred depositary
receipts, will be the first such by an overseas company in Hong
Kong.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., sole sponsor of the listing, will
arrange for a number of Vale shares to be transferred to Hong
Kong. The common depositary receipts will trade with the ticker
6210 HK, while the preferred depositary receipts will go by the
ticker 6230 HK.  ‘Focus on Asia’  The main reasons for listing in Hong Kong include the need
to raise Vale’s profile in Asia and demonstrate its “commitment
to, and focus on, Asia,” according to a listing document handed
out today. The prospect of benefiting from Hong Kong’s high
liquidity levels is another reason for listing in the Chinese
city, the document shows.  Hong Kong introduced depositary receipts in 2008 to include
foreign companies that are prohibited from registering common
shares overseas. Vale joins Russia’s  United Co. Rusal  and
Luxembourg-based L’Occitane International SA in seeking access
to Chinese investors.  Companies raised a record $45.4 billion through initial
public offerings in Hong Kong this year, according to Bloomberg
data that exclude overallotment shares. Vale is seeking closer
access to China, the biggest consumer of iron ore, after third-
quarter profit more than tripled from a year earlier on rising
prices and demand from Asia.  Price to Earnings  Shares of the Brazilian company trade at 10.60 times
estimated earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Stocks on Brazil’s  Bovespa stock index  trade at an average 13.31
times estimated earnings, while shares in the  Hang Seng Index ,
Hong Kong’s benchmark, have an average price-to-earnings ratio
of 14.68.  A successful listing may pave the way for other Brazilian
companies to trade in Hong Kong. Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the
state-run oil company, is considering selling depositary
receipts in Hong Kong, the Ming Pao newspaper reported Nov. 16.  Vale plans to almost double investments to $24 billion next
year as it expands iron ore production as well as boosting
nickel, copper and fertilizer businesses, it said Oct. 28. The
company aims to boost minerals and metals production by 16
percent annually between 2011 and 2015, compared with a rate of
9.8 percent from 2003 to 2008.  Demand growth for iron ore may resume at the end of this
year after China tackles overcapacity in its steel industry,
Executive Director  Jose Carlos Martins  said in September.  -- Fox Hu  and  Helen Yuan . With assistance from Juan Pablo
Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro. Editors:  Jim McDonald ,  Sam Waite .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net 
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net 
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  