-- West Brom Beats Newcastle 3-1 in League; Sunderland Defeats West Ham 1-0
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2010-12-06T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-05/west-brom-beats-newcastle-3-1-climbs-to-seventh-place-in-premier-league.html
West Bromwich Albion beat Newcastle
3-1 yesterday to climb to eighth in English soccer’s Premier
League, while Sunderland defeated West Ham 1-0.  Peter Odemwingie got two goals at the Hawthorns and Somen
Tchoyi also scored to lift West Brom five spots -- one position
below Sunderland. Newcastle, which got an injury-time goal from
 Peter Lovenkrands , drops one place to 11th.  “It was a brilliant performance from the start to the
end,” West Brom manager  Roberto Di Matteo  told reporters. “We
scored some great goals, we had the majority of the game.”  West Ham slipped back to the bottom of the standings, on
goal difference below Wolverhampton Wanderers, after its defeat.
Jordan Henderson got the only goal for Sunderland at the Stadium
of Light.  Arsenal tops the league with 32 points following a 2-1 win
against Fulham two days ago, as Chelsea was held to a 1-1 tie by
Everton, and Manchester United’s game at Blackpool was postponed
because the playing field was frozen. United has 31 points, with
Chelsea a further point back.  Yesterday, Tchoyi game West Brom a 33rd-minute lead at the
Hawthorns, curling a left-foot shot into the far corner of the
net from 15 yards for his fourth goal in seven matches.  Newcastle struggled to create chances in the first half and
replaced Shola Ameobi with Lovenkrands at halftime. West Brom
goalkeeper  Scott Carson  made a save soon after to prevent Steven
Taylor tying the game with a header.  Consolation Goal  Odemwingie doubled the home team’s advantage after 71
minutes and went round goalkeeper  Tim Krul  in the final minute
to wrap up the three points. Lovenkrands bundled in a late
consolation for Newcastle.  Henderson’s 35th-minute strike continued Sunderland’s
unbeaten home run in the league. He slipped the ball past
goalkeeper Robert Green after running onto a pass from Asamoah
Gyan.  “It’s been a long time since I scored,” Henderson told
Sky Sports. “I’ve been working on my finishing in training and
it paid off.”  Victor Obinna came closest to replying for the Hammers --
who haven’t won an away match in the league since the opening
day of last season -- when he hit a post after 79 minutes.  Two days ago, Blackburn defeated Wolverhampton Wanderers 3-
0, Wigan drew 2-2 against Stoke City, Manchester City beat
Bolton 1-0, and Birmingham and Tottenham tied 1-1. Liverpool
hosts Aston Villa tonight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 