-- German Stocks Close Little Changed; Shares of Bayer Advance, Nordex Drops
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-11-01T17:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/air-berlin-bayer-bmw-commerzbank-may-be-active-german-equities-preview.html
German stocks were little changed as
investors waited to see whether the U.S. Federal Reserve will
announce sufficient asset purchases following its meeting this
week to revitalize the global economic recovery.  Bayer AG  gained 1.1 percent after the drugmaker said its
blood thinner Xarelto performed as well as the standard therapy
at preventing blood clots in patients with an irregular
heartbeat. MAN SE rose 2 percent as Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc upgraded the shares of the truckmaker.  Volkswagen AG  dropped
2.7 percent after the carmaker’s chief executive officer said
that claims for damages could yet stop it from merging with
 Porsche SE .  The  DAX Index  was little changed, adding less than 0.1
percent to 6,604.86 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The
measure rallied 6 percent in October as investors speculated
that policy makers at the Fed would announce another round of
asset purchases, a tactic known as quantitative easing, at their
Nov. 2-3 meeting. The broader  HDAX Index  rose 0.1 percent today.  “The market is a bit nervous ahead of the Fed meeting, but
we’re still in a solid environment for equities,” said  Robert Halver , head of research at  Baader Bank AG  in Frankfurt.
“Quantitative easing is not an argument to dramatically reduce
unemployment overnight, but at least it will keep interest rates
low. China’s manufacturing data is great news for Germany.”  U.S., Chinese Manufacturing  In China, the logistics federation released its  purchasing
managers’ index , which rose to 54.7 in October from 53.8 the
previous month, with input prices climbing the most in six
months. A second PMI, from  HSBC Holdings Plc  and Markit
Economics, jumped to 54.8 from 52.9.  In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management’s  factory
index  increased to 56.9 in October, the highest level since May,
the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Readings greater than
50 signal growth and the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News was for a decline to 54.  Fed policy makers meet on Nov. 2-3 to consider steps to
boost an economy that has grown too slowly to reduce
unemployment from its near 26-year high.  Bayer  climbed 1.1 percent to 54.23 euros, the first advance
in four days. Xarelto matched the performance of warfarin, the
standard treatment over the past half century, with
“comparable” safety and rates of bleeding, Bayer said in a
statement yesterday.  BMW, MAN Climb  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  increased 2.8 percent to 52.96
euros, its highest price since at least 1992. German auto
exports may increase by 21 percent this year to 4.15 million
units, driven by increased demand from China and the U.S., Die
Welt reported, citing Matthias Wissmann, head of the VDA
industry group.   MAN  added 2 percent to 80.60 euros, ending the longest
losing streak since August. Europe’s third-largest truckmaker
was raised to “buy” from “hold” at RBS.  Air Berlin Plc ,  Germany’s second-biggest airline , soared
3.9 percent to 3.53 euros after posting third-quarter net income
that rose 43 percent as demand increased. Air Berlin also
included its stake in Austrian carrier NIKI Luftfahrt GmbH for
the first time.  Volkswagen ’s preferred shares slumped 2.7 percent to 105.05
euros. Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  sees a 30
percent risk that the company’s merger with  Porsche  won’t happen
as agreed because of damage claims against the carmakers,
Automobilwoche reported.  Nordex SE  dropped 5.5 percent to 6.55 euros as the maker of
wind turbines was downgraded to “hold” from “buy” at
Deutsche Bank AG.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 