-- Airline Debt Takes Off as Traffic, Profits Rise: Credit Markets
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-11-01T16:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/airline-bonds-rise-to-top-as-travel-revival-boost-profits-credit-markets.html
Bonds of airlines are proving
unbeatable two years after the industry struggled with record
high fuel prices and an economy in freefall.  Borrowers from Dallas-based  Southwest Airlines Co. , the
world’s biggest discount carrier, to Australia’s  Qantas Airways
Ltd.  led gains of 2.36 percent for the sector last month,
topping the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market
Corporate index, which was little changed. The increases pushed
total returns this year to 15.4 percent, the best of the 17
industries making up the index.  Bondholders have more confidence airlines will have an
easier time meeting debt payments as the International Monetary
Fund in Washington forecasts the world economy will expand more
than 4 percent next year, compared with the average of 3.69
percent from 2000 through 2008. The eight largest U.S. carriers
are reporting quarterly profits for the first time since 2007 as
the industry holds the line on adding seats.  “Performance has been incredible, and it really doesn’t
have to be over,” said  William Hochmuth , an analyst at
Minneapolis-based Thrivent Financial, which manages $67 billion.
“The biggest thing that everyone was focused on in third-
quarter earnings was the maintenance of capacity discipline and
as long as we have that, there’s pricing power.”  ‘Very Good Shape’  United Continental Holdings Inc.,  Delta Air Lines Inc.  and
 AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines said they plan to limit capacity
increases to 3.5 percent or less next year. Profit at the  eight
biggest U.S. airlines  was $2.44 billion in the third quarter,
beating analysts’ average estimates. Average airfare per mile
excluding taxes rose every month this year through August after
falling in 2009, according to the Air Transport Association.  “The airlines have had very good financial results through
the summer,” said  Roger King , a debt analyst at fixed-income
research firm CreditSights LLC. “They have a lot of cash and
they’ve been able to push out their debt maturities. So from a
credit metrics standpoint they’re in very good shape.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds rather than government debt
worldwide narrowed for a fourth week, capping the biggest
monthly drop since July.  Spreads on company bonds from the U.S. to Europe and Asia
shrank 3 basis points last week to 164 basis points, or 1.64
percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate index. That’s a decline of 9 basis
points for the month. Average yields of 3.45 percent on Oct. 29
have slid from 4.4 on Dec. 31.  Credit-Default Swaps  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.6 basis point to a
mid-price of 93.8 basis points as of 11:54 a.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically drops as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, touched the lowest in
more than five months Oct. 26 at 92.5 basis points.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  New York Times Co ., publisher of the namesake newspaper,
plans to sell $200 million of senior notes due 2016 to repay
debt and other financial obligations. The offering is part of a
“refinancing strategy,” the New York-based company said in a
statement. The notes will be priced as soon as today, according
to a person familiar with the transaction.  Times Co. is offering debt for the first time since
borrowing $250 million from companies controlled by Mexican
billionaire  Carlos Slim  in January 2009.  Airline Bonds  Airlines’ performance for debt investors in October
compares with a return of 0.08 percent for corporate bonds
worldwide, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Their
bonds gained 1.6 percent in September and 1.86 percent in
August, versus market gains of 0.22 percent and 2.14 percent.  More than a dozen carriers collapsed in the first half of
2008 as they faced spiraling fuel costs and the worst economic
crisis since the Great Depression. Seeking to slash expenses,
carriers expanded efforts to charge for snacks and checked bags.  “Airlines are struggling for survival,”  Giovanni Bisignani , the chief executive officer of the International Air
Transport Association, said in a  speech  in Istanbul in June
2008. That was a month before crude oil prices reached as high
as $145.29 a barrel.  United Leads Rally  Airlines are poised to record their first positive fourth
quarter in a decade, according to  Michael Derchin , a CRT Capital
Group LLC analyst. Before this year’s third quarter, the last
time all of the eight largest U.S. airlines were profitable was
the same period of 2007.  Bonds from United Airlines were the best-performing last
month in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporates
Transportation index, gaining 4.61 percent. United’s $500
million of 9.875 percent notes due August 2013 have climbed to
109.25 cents on the dollar from 99.25 cents on Jan. 13,
according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. United and Continental
Airlines merged to become United Continental Holdings on Oct. 1.  Atlanta-based Delta’s bonds ranked second in the index,
returning 3.06 percent in October.  Aircraft Seats  The reduced supply of aircraft seats is aiding carriers as
demand picks up from business travelers, who generally buy
tickets closer to their departure dates and pay higher fares.  “In terms of absolute strength of revenue, we’ve achieved
a level I think is sustainable at Southwest for at least in the
near term,” said  Gary Kelly , CEO of Dallas-based  Southwest .
“I’d call that roughly 12 to 24 months. That’s under the
assumption the economy doesn’t slip back into recession and
travel demand continues to strengthen.”  Southwest’s bonds rose 1.1 percent in October, according to
the Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Qantas’s U.S.
dollar-denominated bonds returned 0.76 percent. The Sydney-based
carrier’s $513.6 million of notes maturing in April 2016 rose
0.98 cent to 110.78 cents in October, Trace data show, and
traded today at 110.895.  Credit-default swaps on North American airlines fell to an
average 650 to 700 basis points from 900 to 1,000 basis points
in June, Bloomberg analyst  George Ferguson  wrote in an Oct. 25
report.  Contracts on Delta, the world’s second-biggest carrier,
tumbled to the lowest in almost three years on Oct. 29. The
contracts declined to 570.7 basis points, from 725 at the end of
September, CMA prices show. The contracts rose today to 573.4.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt, and typically fall as investor confidence improves. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  S&P increased its outlook on Delta, from negative to stable
on Oct. 21. “Continued strong earnings, coupled with debt
reduction” could lead to an upgrade, S&P said. Delta cut its
debt by $750 million in the quarter, it said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  