-- Ambani's Refinery to Drive Reliance Profit as Gas Output Stalls
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-11-01T03:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/ambani-s-refinery-to-drive-reliance-profit-as-gas-production-lags-behind.html
Billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ’s  Reliance
Industries Ltd.  will rely on the world’s largest oil-refining
complex and overseas acquisitions to boost profit after delays
in increasing natural-gas production.  Pretax profit from processing crude oil surged 63 percent
in the three months ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier, the
Mumbai-based refiner and energy explorer said Oct. 30.  Net
income  rose 28 percent to 49.2 billion rupees ($1.1 billion),
the highest in almost three years, as Asia’s economic recovery
spurred demand for fuels used in cars, trucks and airplanes.  “Refining will be the main driver for the rest of the year
as gas output remains where it is,” said  Deven Choksey , who
helps manage the equivalent of $124 million in assets as chief
executive officer at K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt.
“Demand for fuels has picked up.”  A safety review forced Reliance to postpone a planned
increase in output from the KG-D6 field in the Bay of Bengal,
off India’s east coast. The delay prompted  Ambani  to step up the
acquisition of U.S. shale-gas assets and to plan investments in
telecommunications and power generation.  Reliance has gained 2 percent in Mumbai trading this year,
trailing the 16 percent advance in the benchmark Sensitive
Index. The stock rose 1.2 percent to 1,108.90 rupees at 9:21
a.m. local time.  “The stock isn’t a star this year because they haven’t
increased gas production,” said  Apurva Shah , head of research
at brokerage Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. in Mumbai. “Refining may
be the only thing that may work for Reliance in the next few
quarters.”  Demand Improves  Reliance’s net income may rise 31 percent to 212 billion
rupees in the year ending March, according to the  average
estimate  of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Of the 42
analysts that  cover  Reliance, 23 say investors should buy the
stock while 15 have “hold” recommendations, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Demand growth is in Asia and we should plan for more than
50 percent of our transportation fuels going to this part of the
world,” Chief Financial Officer  Alok Agarwal  said on a
conference call yesterday. “Airlines are full and demand for
aviation fuel is improving across Asia, across the world.”  Demand for cars in India has risen more than 30 percent
this year and may double to 3 million vehicles annually by 2015,
according to the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers.  Reliance refined 33.8 million metric tons of crude oil in
the three months ended Sept. 30, operating its two refineries at
109 percent of capacity. That compared with 27.63 million tons a
year earlier.  Refining Margins  Higher refining earnings will help Reliance, which owns two
adjacent refineries at Jamnagar in the western Indian state of
Gujarat. The plants have a combined capacity of 1.24 million
barrels a day, the largest at a single location, and are capable
of processing low-quality crude into high-value products.  Reliance said it earned $7.90 on turning each barrel of
crude into fuels in the quarter, up 32 percent from a year
earlier. Pretax profit from refining was 21.9 billion rupees.  “We think there is a good chance of refining margins
matching previous highs in 2011,” Agarwal said.  Crude oil in New York gained 12 percent to an average
$76.20 a barrel in the quarter, boosted by demand from India and
China, Asia’s fastest growing major economies. Crude oil for
December delivery rose 0.5 percent to settle at $81.81 a barrel
during after-hours trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 8:03 a.m. in Mumbai.  Overseas Assets  Average global demand for oil products increased 2.8
percent to 87.1 million barrels a day in the quarter from a year
earlier, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Faced with stagnant gas production in the past three
quarters, Reliance is adding energy assets overseas and
diversifying its business at home. Reliance paid $943 million to
buy three shale-gas assets in the U.S. this year and agreed to
spend $2.5 billion in future drilling costs on behalf of its
partners.  The explorer plans to spend at least $5 billion over the
next five years to develop shale-gas areas in the U.S.
Investments in shale gas will boost volume growth, Reliance said
in a presentation to analysts Oct. 30.  Reliance paid $1 billion in June to buy the only company in
India with licenses to offer wireless broadband Internet
services nationwide. Ambani has told shareholders Reliance plans
“mega” investments in power, including nuclear and solar
energy.  Output at the KG-D6 field operated by Reliance averaged 59
million cubic meters a day this year, the company said in the
analyst presentation. That accounted for 43 percent of India’s
gas production in September, according to oil ministry data.
Production may rise to as much as 89 million cubic meters a day
by March 2012, the oil ministry said.  Reliance also owns chemical plants, fuel outlets and a
retail-store chain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 