-- Tanzanian Election Begins, Likely to Hand President Kikwete Second Term
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   W i l f r e d   M w a k a l o s i
-- 2010-10-31T11:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/tanzanian-election-begins-likely-to-hand-president-kikwete-second-term.html
Tanzanians began voting in an
election that will probably hand President  Jakaya Kikwete  a
second five-year term to implement policies aimed at
strengthening East Africa’s second-biggest economy.  Kikwete, the candidate of the Chama cha Mapinduzi party,
has the support of about 71.2 percent of voters, according to an
opinion poll conducted by the University of Dar es Salaam this
month. The 60-year-old leader is trailed by five other
candidates, including Wilbrod Slaa of the Chama cha Demokrasia
na Maendeleo party, his closest challenger.  An economist who served for a decade as foreign minister
prior to taking office in 2005, Kikwete’s policies have helped
generate average annual growth of 6.7 percent, according to
 International Monetary Fund  data. Kikwete has made less progress
on dealing with graft, a key platform in his 2005 campaign, with
Tanzania’s ranking falling to 116th from 93rd on an index of the
world’s most corrupt countries compiled by Berlin-based
Transparency International.  “Kikwete tried to makes changes to improve our lives but
there is still a big gap between the rich and poor,” Isaac
Peter Safi, a primary school administrator, said today in an in
interview in Dar es Salaam, the country’s commercial hub, while
queuing to vote. “We need a change, but the data is showing
that Kikwete will win.” Voting stations opened just after 7
a.m. local time.  Campaign Pledges  Kikwete has pledged to maintain fiscal policies that are
expected to drive the economic growth rate to 6.5 percent this
year and 6.7 percent in 2011, the IMF said on Oct. 6. That
compares with average growth rates of 5 percent and 5.5 percent
expected in the rest of sub-Saharan Africa in the same periods.  “There is no reason to anticipate an incident in the
polling today,” David Martin, chief observer for the European
Union’s vote-monitoring mission to Tanzania, said in an
interview in Dar es Salaam today. “After the vote will be the
big test of whether results are respected.”  The northern town of Arusha and the area east of Lake
Victoria are potential “hotspots” as candidates and their
supporters there have been running negative campaigns, Martin
said.  Several reports of names being excluded from the voters’
lists inside polling stations and delays are nothing to be
worried about, Paul East, former attorney general of New Zealand
and head of the Commonwealth observation team, said today.  “It looks peaceful and orderly,” said East by phone from
the coastal town of Bagamoyo, north of Dar es Salaam.  Increased Spending  During his five-year term, Kikwete increased spending on
roads and energy projects, using higher tax revenue and donor
funding, while keeping government borrowing in check.  Critics say Kikwete’s record on fighting corruption has
been marred by a failure to prosecute graft cases.  In January 2008, Kikwete fired Central Bank Governor  Daudi Ballali  following an irregular-payments scandal over which Prime
Minister  Edward Lowassa  resigned. In a separate incident that
year,  Andrew Chenge  stepped down as infrastructure development
minister after being investigated in a bribery probe involving
 BAE Systems Plc . Ballali died in May 2008 and no government
ministers were prosecuted in either of the cases.  Donors to Tanzania announced in May they planned to cut
their pledges in the 2010-11 fiscal year by about $220 million
to $534 million.  Tanzania is Africa’s fourth-largest gold exporter after
South Africa, Ghana and Mali. Companies including  Barrick Gold
Corp. , the world’s largest producer of the precious metal, and
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.  have mines in the country.  Economic Weight  The country’s domestic product was $21.6 billion with a
gross national income per capita of $500 in 2009 for a
population of 43.7 million, according to World Bank data. That
compares with an average of $1,096 for sub-Saharan Africa. The
total size of the economy is second only to Kenya in the East
African region.  Tanzania is the continent’s fifth-biggest producer of
coffee, after Ethiopia, Uganda, Ivory Coast and Cameroon, and
the world’s sole source of tanzanite, a violet-blue precious
stone.  Today’s vote will elect a president for the union of
Tanzania, which includes the mainland as well as the Indian
Ocean archipelago of Zanzibar. There will be a separate ballot
to choose Zanzibar’s president and parliament.  On Zanzibar, clashes followed the last two elections in
2000 and 2005, after the opposition accused the island’s
president,  Amani Abeid Karume , and his CCM party of vote-
rigging. A new power-sharing arrangement approved by  Zanzibar 
residents in July eased concerns that there will be further
clashes during this election.  About 20 million people are registered to vote in the
elections. About 53,000 voting stations across the country are
scheduled to close at 4 p.m. local time. Final results are
expected on Nov. 2 or Nov. 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
 Wilfred Mwakalosi  in Dar es Salaam via Johannesburg at 
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 