-- Tanzanian Election Closes, Likely to Hand President Kikwete Second Term
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   W i l f r e d   M w a k a l o s i
-- 2010-10-31T14:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/tanzanian-president-kikwete-likely-to-win-second-term-in-elections-today.html
Tanzanians held a peaceful election
that will probably hand President  Jakaya Kikwete  a second and
final five-year term to implement policies aimed at
strengthening East Africa’s second-biggest economy.  Kikwete, the candidate of the Chama cha Mapinduzi party,
has the support of about 71.2 percent of voters, according to an
opinion poll conducted by the University of Dar es Salaam this
month. The 60-year-old leader is trailed by five other
candidates, including Wilbrod Slaa of the Chama cha Demokrasia
na Maendeleo party, his closest challenger.  An economist who served for a decade as foreign minister
prior to taking office in 2005, Kikwete’s policies have helped
generate average annual growth of 6.7 percent, according to
 International Monetary Fund  data.  Kikwete has scored lower marks in the war against graft, a
key platform in his 2005 campaign. Tanzania’s ranking slipped to
116th from 93rd on an index of the world’s most corrupt
countries compiled by Berlin-based Transparency International.  “Life was hard five years ago, and it still is today,”
Duiko Juma, 42, a worker on a ship transporting cement, he said
as he waited in line at a voting station in Dar es Salaam. “I
want change for development: safe water, good jobs, hospitals. I
don’t know if any candidate would deliver on that.”  Several reports of names being excluded from the voters’
lists inside polling stations and delays are nothing to be
worried about, Paul East, former attorney general of New Zealand
and head of the Commonwealth observation team, said today.  ‘Hotspots’  The vote was “peaceful and orderly,” said East from the
coastal town of Bagamoyo, north of Dar es Salaam.  Initial reports indicate voter turnout may have been as low
as 40 percent, David Martin, chief observer for the European
Union’s vote-monitoring mission to Tanzania, said in an
interview in Dar es Salaam. About three cases of ballot-stuffing
were exposed, Martin said.  The northern town of Arusha and the area east of Lake
Victoria, where candidates and their supporters have been
running negative campaigns, are potential “hotspots” in the
period waiting for results and afterward, Martin said.  “We hope people will respect the results but that is hard
to predict,” he said.  During his five-year term, Kikwete increased spending on
roads and energy projects, using higher tax revenue and donor
funding, while keeping government borrowing in check. Kikwete
has pledged to maintain fiscal policies that are expected to
drive the economic growth rate to 6.5 percent this year and 6.7
percent in 2011, the IMF said on Oct. 6. That compares with
average growth rates of 5 percent and 5.5 percent expected in
the rest of sub-Saharan Africa in the same periods.  Failure on Graft  Critics say Kikwete’s record on tackling corruption has
been sullied by a failure to prosecute graft cases.  In January 2008, Kikwete fired Central Bank Governor  Daudi Ballali  following an irregular-payments scandal over which Prime
Minister  Edward Lowassa  resigned. In a separate incident that
year,  Andrew Chenge  stepped down as infrastructure development
minister after being investigated in a bribery probe involving
 BAE Systems Plc . Ballali died in May 2008 and no government
ministers were prosecuted in either of the cases.  Donors to Tanzania announced in May they planned to cut
their pledges in the 2010-11 fiscal year by about $220 million
to $534 million.  Tanzania is Africa’s fourth-largest gold exporter after
South Africa, Ghana and Mali. Companies including  Barrick Gold
Corp. , the world’s largest producer of the precious metal, and
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.  have mines in the country.  Coffee, Gold  Slaa, a former Roman Catholic priest with a Ph.D. in canon
law, has vowed to review mining contracts to ensure every
Tanzanian sees the benefit of country’s natural resource.  The country’s domestic product was $21.6 billion with a
gross national income per capita of $500 in 2009 for a
population of 43.7 million, according to World Bank data. That
compares with an average of $1,096 for sub-Saharan Africa. The
total size of the economy is second only to Kenya in the East
African region.  Tanzania is the continent’s fifth-biggest producer of
coffee, after Ethiopia, Uganda, Ivory Coast and Cameroon, and
the world’s sole source of tanzanite, a violet-blue precious
stone.  Tanzanians voted today to elect a president for the union,
which includes the mainland as well as the Indian Ocean
archipelago of Zanzibar. There was a second ballot to choose
Zanzibar’s president and parliament.  On Zanzibar, clashes followed the last two elections in
2000 and 2005, after the opposition accused the island’s
president,  Amani Abeid Karume , and his CCM party of vote-
rigging. A power-sharing deal agreed in July eased tensions.
There was no sign of violence in Zanzibar today, East said.  About 20 million people registered to vote in the
elections. Final results are expected on Nov. 2 or Nov. 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
 Wilfred Mwakalosi  in Dar es Salaam via Johannesburg at 
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 