-- Marijuana Measure Loses Favor in California, Latest Field Poll Indicates
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-10-31T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/marijuana-legalization-proposal-in-california-opposed-by-49-poll-finds.html
A California ballot measure to
legalize marijuana for recreational use has lost popularity in
the past month, according to the final statewide survey by the
Field Poll before the Nov. 2 election.  Support for Proposition 19 has fallen to 42 percent of
likely voters, with 49 percent against, according to the results
of a Field Poll released today. Last month, those in favor
outnumbered opponents 49 percent to 42 percent, the poll said.  The measure would allow people 21 years of age and older to
grow and possess marijuana in small quantities for personal use,
and would allow local governments to tax marijuana businesses.  Californians will consider propositions including an $18
per vehicle annual license fee to help maintain state parks and
a plan for congressional districts to be drawn by a citizen
commission rather than lawmakers.  Likely voters continued to oppose a proposition to suspend
a state law requiring reduced greenhouse-gas emissions until
California’s unemployment rate falls to at least 5.5 percent for
four consecutive quarters. The rate was at 12.4 percent in
September. Thirty-three percent endorse Proposition 23, while 48
percent oppose it.  Voters supported a proposition allowing the state
Legislature to approve a budget with a simple majority, instead
of the current two-thirds. Forty-eight percent backed the
measure, while 31 percent opposed it.  The survey of 1,092 people who had either already cast
their ballot by mail or were likely to vote was conducted Oct.
14-26 and has a margin for error of plus or minus 3.2 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 