-- Harper Weighs BHP Rejection After 1,637 Deals Approved
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-11-01T20:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/harper-weighs-bhp-rejection-after-1-637-canada-deals-approved.html
Canada has approved 1,637 corporate
takeovers since 1985 and rejected one. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  must decide this week whether to refuse a second.  The Conservative government is examining  BHP Billiton
Ltd. ’s $40 billion hostile bid for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan
Inc.  and faces pressure from provincial politicians to block it.
The federal review, which has a Nov. 3 deadline, must weigh the
government’s policy of attracting foreign investment against the
opposition stirred up by the proposed deal.  “If you kill the bid, you’re going to see Canadian
companies penalized when they try to buy companies abroad,”
said  Sadiq Adatia , who oversees about C$12 billion ($11.8
billion) of assets, including Potash Corp. shares, as chief
investment officer at Russell Investments Canada in Toronto.
“This isn’t a one-deal decision.”  Resistance to the proposal from Melbourne-based BHP, the
world’s largest mining company, is coming from Saskatchewan,
where Harper may risk losing parliamentary seats over the issue.
The province accounts for 30 percent of global production of
potash, a crop nutrient, and is home to five of Saskatoon-based
Potash Corp.’s six main  potash operations . Quebec, Alberta,
Manitoba and federal opposition lawmakers are also objecting.  Elusive Majority  “It’s fairly unusual to have a provincial government being
so vociferous in opposition,” said  Sandra Walker , a lawyer with
Fraser Milner Casgrain in Toronto who specializes in approvals
from foreign investment and competition regulators. “It’s a
tough one to call.”  Saskatchewan Premier  Brad Wall  has campaigned for Industry
Minister  Tony Clement  to reject the acquisition under the
Investment Canada process, saying it will cut the province’s
revenue and because potash is a strategic resource. Potash
Corp., the world’s biggest producer of its namesake fertilizer,
has 2,103 employees in Saskatchewan.  The federal government is now in the “decision-making
phase”, the province of Saskatchewan said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. The Prime Minister and federal cabinet have
stopped taking representations on the proposal, it said.  The Conservatives hold 13 of 14  electoral districts  in
Saskatchewan and any loss there would take Harper further away
from a parliamentary majority, which has eluded him twice
before. The party holds 142 of the 308 seats in the House of
Commons, 12 short of a majority. An election can be triggered if
Harper decides to call one, or if he’s defeated in a non-
confidence vote.  ‘Very Difficult’  “The politics of this -- remember that we’re always in a
pre-election phase -- make it very difficult for the government
to disagree with a popular premier,”  John Manley , the head of
the Canadian Council of Chief Executives and who was industry
minister from 1993 to 2000, said in an interview.  There’s a 30 percent chance BHP’s bid will be approved,
Manley said. Additional concessions won’t satisfy Wall because
the premier wants to keep control of the resource, he said.
Should the government block the offer, it will “ring-fence”
the decision by explaining that it’s a unique case, he said.  BHP says it will make Saskatchewan home to its head office
for potash operations, continue developing its Jansen potash
project in the province, maintain current employment levels and
propose a Canadian nominee for election to its board. The
company has taken out full-page advertisements in newspapers
saying: “We Keep Our Promises.”  New Offer?  Potash Corp. has rejected the $130-a-share offer as too low
and said it’s seeking other bids.  The shares  rose $1.54, or 1.1
percent, to $146.63 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. They have advanced 31 percent since Aug. 16,
the day before the company first disclosed BHP’s approach.  BHP may lift its cash bid by 10 percent, the Sunday Times
reported yesterday, citing people it didn’t identify. The
revised offer may be made after a Nov. 8 court case about Potash
Corp.’s use of a so-called poison-pill defense against the
takeover, according to the Times. BHP’s London-based spokesman
Ruban Yogarajah declined to comment on the story.  BHP depositary receipts  rose  0.9 percent to $83.34 on the
New York Stock Exchange. The cost of protecting BHP bonds from
default also gained. Credit-default swaps on BHP jumped 5 basis
points to 90 basis points at the close in Tokyo, according to
data provider CMA.  Seagram Takeover  Potash Corp. said Oct. 28 its third-quarter  net income  was
$402.7 million on sales of $1.58 billion. BHP’s net income was
$12.7 billion on sales of $52.8 billion in the fiscal year ended
June 30.  Should it proceed, the Potash Corp. deal would be the
largest takeover of a Canadian company after Vivendi SA’s $46.1
billion purchase of distiller Seagram Co. Ltd in 2000, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Some of Canada’s largest natural-resource companies have
been purchased by foreign acquirers in the past decade. In 2006,
Switzerland’s Xstrata Plc made a successful hostile bid for
nickel producer Falconbridge Ltd. while Brazil’s Vale SA agreed
to buy Toronto-based miner Inco Ltd. London-based Rio Tinto
Group agreed to acquire aluminum producer Alcan Inc. in 2007.  The review of BHP’s bid “is a political question,”  Mark Nicholson , a lawyer with Cassels Brock & Blackwell in Toronto,
said in a telephone interview. “Looking at it from the legal
analysis and based on the past, it should go through.”  ‘Strong Signals’  Harper told lawmakers Oct. 20 that the bid is a “proposal
for an American-controlled company to be taken over by an
Australian-controlled company,” as foreign shareholders own 51
percent of Potash Corp. and the company has moved some head-
office jobs to Chicago.  He was sending “pretty strong signals that the government
isn’t going to oppose this,” said  Gar Knutson , an Ottawa-based
government-relations lawyer with Borden Ladner Gervais and a
former minister of state for international trade. “There may be
some negotiations to allow it to go ahead more easily, but at
the end of the day it will be approved.”  Under the  Investment Canada Act , the government can block
any transaction valued at C$299 million or more if it finds the
deal doesn’t provide “net benefits” to the country, based on
factors such as economic activity, employment and productivity.
Canada has reviewed and approved 1,637 applications under the
act between June 30, 1985, the year the legislation was enacted,
and Sept. 30 this year, according to government  data .  National Interest  The bid by Minneapolis-based Alliant Techsystems Inc. for
MacDonald Dettwiler & Associates Ltd.’s space business in 2008
was the only takeover formally rejected in the period.  Potash Corp. is “seen as a Canadian champion and as a
result it has political connotations to it that other issues
wouldn’t have,” Canadian Chamber of Commerce President  Perrin Beatty  said in an interview.  The government’s “predisposition will be to have open
markets and to encourage investment, and the proponents of
blocking the sale are going to have to demonstrate that there is
a transcending national interest,” said Beatty, a former
cabinet minister under Progressive Conservative Prime Ministers
 Joe Clark  and  Brian Mulroney  between 1979 and 1993.  Saskatchewan Energy and Resources Minister  Bill Boyd  has
expressed concerns that BHP might break up  Canpotex Ltd. , the
fertilizer marketing company jointly owned by Potash Corp.,
 Mosaic Co.  and Agrium Inc. Because of its royalty formula, the
province, which has a population of 1 million, would stand to
lose C$3 billion if BHP increases production and lowers potash
prices, he says.  ‘Political Fallout’  Janice MacKinnon , a former Saskatchewan finance minister,
said she sees a 60 percent probability Harper will block the
acquisition. He will lose parliamentary seats in Saskatchewan if
he approves the deal, she said.  “It’s going to be very difficult for him to say, the
province owns the resource, the province thinks this, but I’m
going to overturn the province and I’m going to accept the
political fallout,” said MacKinnon, who is now a professor at
the University of Saskatchewan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 