-- Harry Mulisch, Dutch Author Who Wrote ‘The Assault,’ Dies at 83
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2010-10-31T12:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/harry-mulisch-dutch-author-who-wrote-the-assault-dies-at-83.html
Harry Mulisch , the Dutch author best
known for his novels “The Discovery of Heaven” and “The
Assault,” which became an Oscar-winning film, died yesterday
evening following a struggle with cancer, his publisher said. He
was 83.  “With his death, the Netherlands loses one of its greatest
literary sons,” said Robbert Ammerlaan, director of the  Bezige
Bij , in a statement on its website today. “Harry Mulisch leaves
behind a peerless and unparalleled oeuvre.”  Mulisch died in his home in Amsterdam, where he had lived
since 1958.  Born in Haarlem, the Netherlands, on July 29, 1927, to an
Austrian-Hungarian father and a Jewish mother from Antwerp,
Mulisch’s own life came to reflect the turbulent 1930s and war-
torn ‘40s.  “I didn’t so much experience the war,” he once wrote. “I
am the Second World War.”  His father Karl, an army officer, had emigrated after
Austria-Hungary was defeated in World War I. After Karl’s
marriage to Alice Schwarz ended in divorce in 1936, Harry stayed
with his father and was raised mostly by the family housekeeper.
He grew up during the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands.  During the war, Karl Mulisch worked at Lippmann-Rosenthal &
Co., a bank that handled confiscated Jewish assets. His
connections helped protect his son and ex-wife from being
deported to Nazi concentration camps. After liberation, he was
sent to an internment camp for three years for having
collaborated with the occupying power.  ‘Stone Bridal Bed’  For his son, the war became a recurring theme in novels he
wrote down through the years, from “Het Stenen Bruidsbed”
(“The Stone Bridal Bed”) in 1959 to “De Aanslag” (“The
Assault”) in 1982 and “Siegfried” in 2001.  “De Aanslag” describes the coming of age of Anton
Steenwijk, a boy whose family was killed by the Germans in
retaliation for the murder of a collaborator. The sole survivor,
Anton later tries to piece together what happened that fateful
day. Translated into more than 20 languages, the book was made
into a Dutch film that won both an Academy Award and a Golden
Globe for best foreign-language movie.  Mulisch, who also wrote poems and plays, published his
debut novel, “Archibald Strohalm,” in 1951. He traced his
initial urge to become a writer to one day, in 1931, when he got
lost in the labyrinth of Berlin’s Tiergarten park during a visit
with the family housekeeper, who was German.  “If my authorship has a cause somewhere in time, it would
be there,” he said in the autobiographical “Mijn
Getijdenboek” (“My Book of Hours”).  ‘Discovery of Heaven’  He published what is considered his greatest work, “De
Ontdekking van de Hemel” (“The Discovery of Heaven”), in
1992. Bringing together mystical, biblical and historical
themes, the plot pivots on how humanity has disappointed God,
who now wants to withdraw his contract with man as set out in
the stone tablets of the Ten Commandments.  Mulisch was granted several awards, including the P.C.
Hooft Prize in 1977 and the  Dutch Literature Prize  in 1995. In
2007, he was received an honorary doctorate from the  University
of Amsterdam , which he considered his crowning achievement --
“at least, as long as I haven’t received a Nobel Prize yet,”
he was quoted as saying.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Maud van Gaal  in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Pressley at   jpressley@bloomberg.net . 