-- Australia Manufacturing Contracts a Second Month as Rising Currency Bites
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-31T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/australia-manufacturing-contracts-a-second-month-as-rising-currency-bites.html
Australian  manufacturing  contracted
in October for a second month as the nation’s surging currency
eroded demand for exports.  The performance of  manufacturing index  increased to 49.4
from 47.3 a month earlier, the Australian Industry Group and
PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a survey released in Canberra
today. A number below 50 indicates contraction.  The nation’s factories are lagging the mining industry,
which is expanding to meet rising Chinese demand for raw
materials, pushing the job market close to a level the
government views as full employment. The Australian currency
surged to parity with the U.S. dollar on Oct. 15, driving down
the cost of imported goods and eroding exporters’
competitiveness.  “Manufacturers continue to be inhibited by strong overseas
competition amid the strengthening Australian dollar, soft
domestic demand and an intensification of skill shortages,”
said  Heather Ridout , chief executive officer of the Australian
Industry Group, in a statement.  The report comes as 17 of 23 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News expect central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  and
his board to leave the overnight cash rate target at 4.5 percent,
with the others predicting an increase to 4.75 percent. The
decision is scheduled for 2:30 p.m. tomorrow in Sydney.  Rate Increases  Stevens and his board raised rates in six quarter-
percentage-point steps between October 2009 and May this year.  “The industry also remains wary of the impact of interest-
rate rises at a time when strong competitive pressures are
ensuring that inflationary pressures remain moderate,” Ridout
said.  Australia is undergoing a hiring boom as companies such as
 BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Rio Tinto Group increase shipments of iron
ore and coal to China. Australia’s unemployment rate, at 5.1
percent in September, is about half the level of joblessness in
the U.S. and euro zone.  Manufacturers are also facing the challenges of
“sluggish” domestic demand, today’s report said.  The manufacturing survey, which is similar to the U.S. ISM
index, polled more than 200 companies about production, new
orders, deliveries, inventories and employment.  The contraction was led by falls among manufacturers of
textiles and contractions in food and beverages, wood products
and furniture industries, today’s report shows.  In contrast, there was a rebound in clothing and footwear,
construction materials, basic metals and machinery, and
equipment, the report showed.  A sub-gauge of employment rose 5.4 points to 50.2 in
October, and new orders dropped 3.4 points to 43.1, today’s
report showed. An index of production climbed 3.2 points to 49.4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  