-- Australia Inflation Hits Two-Year High, TD Securities Monthly Gauge Shows
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-31T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/australia-inflation-hits-two-year-high-td-securities-monthly-gauge-shows.html
A  gauge  of Australia’s inflation
accelerated last month at the fastest pace in two years as costs
rose for automotive fuel, insurance and food, a private survey
showed.  Consumer prices  increased 3.8 percent in October from a
year earlier, after advancing 3.2 percent in September,
according to an index compiled by TD Securities Ltd. and the
Melbourne Institute released in Sydney today. Prices increased
0.3 percent from a month earlier, when they gained 0.1 percent.  The reports bolsters the case for Reserve Bank of Australia
Governor  Glenn Stevens  to resume raising borrowing costs. Policy
makers meet in Sydney tomorrow to set interest rates after
weighing a mining-driven job boom against other data on consumer
prices that showed a smaller-than-forecast rise in the third
quarter.  “The RBA is clearly poised to lift the cash rate from the
currently neutral stance of 4.5 percent,” said  Annette Beacher ,
senior strategist at TD Securities in Singapore. “However, as
the benign September quarter inflation report failed to provide
a smoking gun, we expect the RBA Board to sit tight” tomorrow.  RBA policy makers aim to keep inflation in a range of 2
percent and 3 percent on average.  Beacher said the rise in the annual figure “may be partly
due to unfavorable base effects arising from the 0.3 percent
decline in October 2009.” Fuel for automobiles advanced 4.6
percent last month, reversing a 4.4 percent drop a month earlier,
the report showed.  ‘Low Point’  “Our TD-MI monthly Inflation Gauge gave the correct signal
that inflationary pressures remained contained into the third
quarter of this year,” she said. “However, this pickup in
price pressure in October hints that inflation in the September
quarter could prove to be the low point for this cycle.”  Australia’s  consumer price index  rose 0.7 percent in the
third quarter from the previous three months, the Bureau of
Statistics said Oct. 27. That was less than the 0.8 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists.
Consumer prices advanced 2.8 percent from a year earlier.  The Melbourne Institute is a research unit of Melbourne
University and TD Securities is a division of Toronto-Dominion
Bank, one of Canada’s largest lenders. The monthly inflation
index measures the prices of 1,000 goods and services.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  