-- Bayer's Blood-Thinner Xarelto Matches Warfarin in Heartbeat Test
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-11-01T17:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/bayer-s-xarelto-matches-warfarin-in-rocket-af-trial-update1-.html
Bayer AG ’s blood thinner Xarelto
matched the standard therapy at preventing blood clots in
patients with an irregular heartbeat, results that may determine
its success in a market worth as much as $14 billion a year.  Xarelto was as effective as warfarin, the standard
treatment over the past half century, Leverkusen, Germany-based
Bayer said yesterday in the first comparison between the two
drugs. Xarelto had “comparable” safety and rates of bleeding
versus the standard, Bayer said.  Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH  last month beat Bayer and its
partner  Johnson & Johnson  to market with the first warfarin
replacement. Investors now want to know whether, like its
competitor from Boehringer, Xarelto is better than, and not
simply equal to the older treatment,  Jack Scannell , a London-
based analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd., said in a note to
investors today. Bayer and J&J will present full results of the
trial, called Rocket-AF, at the  American Heart Association 
conference on Nov. 15.  “Bayer might be hiding good news,” Scannell said. He
rates the shares “outperform.”  The stock rose 61 cents, or 1.1 percent, to 54.23 euros in
Frankfurt trading.  Market Estimate  The market for new blood thinners including Xarelto may
surpass 10 billion euros ($14 billion) a year, and Xarelto sales
may peak at more than 2 billion euros, Bayer Chief Executive
Officer  Marijn Dekkers  estimated in a Bloomberg Television
interview on Oct. 28.  Pfizer Inc.  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. 
are also working on a replacement for warfarin.  Xarelto matched standard treatments for clots in the lungs
and legs in a study, Einstein-DVT, released in August. Medicines
to prevent clots after knee surgery or in the lungs and legs are
a small part of the blood-thinner market compared with drugs for
people with an irregular heartbeat, Flemming Oernskov, head of
the women’s health and general medicine unit at Bayer, said in
an interview at the time.  Patients with an irregular heartbeat, or atrial
fibrillation, face a risk of clots as blood pools in the upper
chamber of their hearts. Doctors have relied on warfarin and
aspirin to ward off the strokes that may result if a clot gets
stuck in the artery to the brain.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration didn’t approve
Xarelto for hip and knee surgery patients at its first review in
May 2009, instead asking for more information. J&J said today
that it expects to submit a complete response to the FDA by the
end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  