-- Madoff Investors Sued by Bankruptcy Trustee Over Alleged Fictitious Profit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-11-27T16:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/bernard-madoff-trustee-reports-1-5-billion-recovered-for-scheme-victims.html
Bernard Madoff’s  investors,
employees and family members including his wife were sued by a
trustee seeking to recover as much as $69 million in fake
profits they received before the con man’s firm collapsed.  New York attorney  Irving Picard , appointed trustee by a
federal bankruptcy court, yesterday sued people who allegedly
invested with Madoff and withdrew more money than they
contributed. Picard, with the approval of the Manhattan judge
overseeing the liquidation of New York-based Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, has filed such “clawback suits” in
an attempt to obtain as much as $17.5 billion for victims of the
largest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.  Picard said in a statement late yesterday that those
targeted in this latest round of lawsuits are family members and
employees, or their relatives. In some of the complaints filed
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court, he didn’t identify the
defendants as having such connections to Madoff.  “The transfers received by defendant constitute non-
existent profits supposedly earned in the account, but, in
reality, they were other people’s money,” Picard said in a
complaint seeking $2.8 million from David Washburn, a Madoff
investor. Washburn didn’t return a phone call seeking comment.  $14.1 Million  Among those sued were Bernard Madoff’s wife Ruth, Picard
said in the statement. Also named in a complaint was Marion
Madoff, the wife of Madoff’s brother Peter, who Picard said
received $14.1 million in customer funds that should be
returned. Picard already sued  Peter Madoff  in October, 2009.  Charles Spada, a lawyer for Peter Madoff, didn’t
immediately return a call to his office after business hours
yesterday. Peter Chavkin, a lawyer for Ruth Madoff, didn’t
immediately return an e-mail or call seeking comment made after
regular business hours today.  “We have been in touch with each defendant and their
counsel, seeking a prompt settlement of these claims and an out-
of-court resolution,” Picard said in the e-mailed statement.
“However, as these attempts have not reached a satisfactory
conclusion, we are moving ahead with litigation.”  The new complaints follow more than two dozen filed by
Picard seeking to recover more than $17.5 billion from various
parties, including Madoff’s friends and family, and from feeder
funds, which directed most or all of their clients’ money to
Madoff. One of the suits, filed Nov. 23, seeks $2 billion from
UBS AG over claims the Swiss bank aided Madoff’s fraud.  Madoff, 72, is serving 150 years in prison after pleading
guilty to orchestrating the fraud that destroyed his New York-
based firm, which collapsed in December 2008.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s financial statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
investments, according to Picard. Investors lost about
$20 billion in principal.  The bankruptcy case is SIPC v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, 08-1789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in New York at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 