-- BG Group Says It Will Invest $15 Billion in Queensland Curtis LNG Project
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-31T05:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/bg-group-says-it-will-invest-15-billion-in-queensland-curtis-lng-project.html
BG Group Plc , the U.K.’s third-
largest oil and gas producer, said it will invest $15 billion in
the Curtis liquefied natural gas project in Australia over the
next four years, its single biggest investment.  The project in Queensland state, which is scheduled to
start fuel shipments in 2014, is among more than a dozen
proposed LNG developments in Australia, worth about A$200
billion ($197 billion), seeking to tap Asian demand for 
cleaner-burning fuel to curb emissions. BG and rival  Santos Ltd.  
won Australian government approval for their Queensland LNG 
projects on Oct. 22 and must comply with about 1,500 state and 
federal conditions.  “We wouldn’t be here today unless we thought we could
deliver the project based on those conditions,”  Catherine Tanna ,
managing director of the company’s Australian unit QGC Pty Ltd.
said in a telephone interview today.  The Queensland Curtis LNG Project involves building an LNG
plant on Curtis Island, some 450 kilometers (282 miles) north of
Brisbane, a 540-kilometer underground pipeline network, and
expanding production in gas fields in the state’s Surat Basin,
Tanna said on a conference call today.  BG has reached agreements to sell LNG to customers in China,
Japan, Singapore and Chile and will also provide gas to markets
in eastern Australia, the Berkshire, U.K-based company  said  in a
statement today. The project, which will have an operating life
of at least 20 years, will likely create 5,000 construction jobs
over the next four years, according to the statement.  First Investment Commitment  The BG development is the first coal-seam gas-to-LNG
project in Queensland to reach a final investment decision,
while Adelaide-based Santos has said it plans to commit to the
first phase of its Gladstone LNG venture by the end of the year.
That project, with two production units, may cost A$20 billion
($19.7 billion), estimates  James Bullen , a Sydney-based analyst
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Korea Gas Corp. , the world’s biggest buyer of LNG, said
earlier this month that it’s in talks to acquire a 15 percent
stake in Santos’s Gladstone project. Korea Gas has likely agreed
to terms and is now waiting for South Korean government approval,
Citigroup’s Sydney-based analyst  Mark Greenwood  wrote on Oct. 21.  BG will begin with two processing units that will have a
combined capacity of 8.5 million metric tons of LNG a year, and
“there is significant potential to expand,” QGC said today.
The project is expected to produce a third of Australia’s LNG in
the first stage, Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said at the
briefing.  Significant Milestone  “This is a very significant milestone for the Australian
economy,” Swan said. “This will be close to the single biggest
investment in a Queensland resource project, most probably the
biggest.”  The project will account for an 11 percent boost in
Australia’s total foreign direct investment over the four years
of construction, Swan said in an e-mailed statement.  The Curtis plant will be the most efficient in Australia
and the second-most efficient in the world in terms of
greenhouse gas emissions, generating about 35 percent less than
other fossil fuels, BG’s Tanna said.  “When Australian LNG is used in place of coal to generate
electricity in customer countries, up to nine tonnes of
greenhouse gas emissions are avoided for every tonne produced in
the production, liquefaction and export process,” industry
group Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration
Association, said in an e-mailed statement today. “This is
because gas-fired power stations emit up to 70 per cent less
greenhouse gas emissions than coal-burning plants.”  Coal seam gas fields in Queensland and New South Wales
contain enough gas to power a city of one million people for
5,000 years, APPEA said, citing research from the Australian
Commonwealth Scientific and Research Organization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
 James Paton  in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  