-- Rousseff Vows to Eradicate Brazil Poverty Without Overspending
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-11-01T14:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/brazil-may-elect-rousseff-president-to-maintain-lula-policies-end-poverty.html
Dilma Rousseff  said her main goal is
to eradicate poverty in Brazil while maintaining a lid on
spending after being elected the country’s first female
president.  Rousseff, who had never before run for political office,
won 56 percent of the vote yesterday compared with 44 percent
for  Jose Serra , the former governor of Sao Paulo state. The
former Cabinet chief dedicated her victory to Brazil’s women,
and choked with tears as she remembered the legacy left by her
mentor, President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva.  “We’ll care for our economy with complete
responsibility,” Rousseff, 62, told supporters in Brasilia.
“The Brazilian people don’t accept governments that spend at
unsustainable levels and for that reason we will make every
effort to improve public spending.”  The yield on the January 2014 interest-futures contract
fell 11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 11.560
percent at 10:20 a.m. New York time, as traders bet Rousseff’s
remarks could point to a lower fiscal deficit during her four-
year term.  “There is an expectation that the fiscal side is a
priority of the new government,” said  Eduardo Castro , who helps
oversee 100 billion reais ($58.8 billion) in Sao Paulo at
Santander Asset Management, Brazil’s fifth-biggest fund manager.  The real was little changed at 1.6986 per dollar.  Rousseff won by promising continuity with Lula, whose
policies lifted 21 million Brazilians out of poverty since 2003
and created a record 15 million jobs.  Former Guerrilla  While lacking the charisma of her former boss, who leaves
office Jan. 1 with a record 85 percent approval rating, she’ll
be helped by the fastest economic growth in more than two
decades.  Under Lula’s watch,  stocks  rose six-fold as the economy
 expanded  at almost twice the pace of the previous eight years
and  inflation  fell by a third from a peak of 17.2 percent.  Rousseff is a former Marxist guerrilla who was jailed and
tortured by Brazil’s 1964-1985 military dictatorship. She joined
Lula’s Workers’ Party, or PT for its Portuguese initials, on the
eve of his election after serving as energy secretary in Rio
Grande do Sul state. She served as Brazil’s energy minister and
chairwoman of state-controlled oil company Petroleo Brasileiro
SA before replacing PT stalwart  Jose Dirceu  as Cabinet chief.  Rousseff’s candidacy was put in doubt when she announced in
April 2009 that she was being treated for lymphoma. Five months
later, her doctors pronounced her in “excellent health.”  Tears for Lula  Serra, who also battled Brazil’s dictatorship as a student
leader, led Rousseff by as much as 35 percentage points in a
Datafolha poll taken March 2008. The 68-year old former health
minister’s campaign fell flat as he failed to present an
economic program that could persuade voters to abandon Lula.  Rousseff crisscrossed Brazil with Lula over the past year.
As president, she said she’ll “knock on his door” regularly
for advice. Lula will bring Rousseff to the Group of 20 nations
summit this month in South Korea, the president’s foreign policy
adviser  Marco Aurelio Garcia  said.  “The happiness I feel for my victory is mixed with
emotions over his departure,” a teary-eyed Rousseff said last
night after thanking Lula for her victory. “I know a leader
like Lula never will be long from his people, from each of us.”  Maintaining Lula’s economic policies may be insufficient to
allow Rousseff to match his successes, which include winning
Brazil’s first investment-grade credit rating in 2008.  Tighter Spending  Traders are pushing up borrowing costs for Brazil, which
has $957 billion in public debt, on bets that Rousseff will fail
to curb spending, forcing policy makers to raise interest rates
in 2011.  The interest-rate futures contract due in January 2015, the
month Rousseff’s first term would end, yielded 11.64 percent on
Oct. 29, a level that suggests traders expect the central bank
to raise the  benchmark rate  almost one percentage point during
the next four years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “In the short term, fiscal policy is key,” said  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Banco WestLB do Brasil in Sao
Paulo. “If there is a clear sign of tighter fiscal policy,
interest rates will tend to drop and the currency will be less
strong.”  ‘Huge Rally’  An early test of her discipline will be the 2011 budget and
whether she seeks to raise the country’s monthly minimum wage
more than the 5.5 percent to 538.15 reais ($317) proposed by
Lula, said  Pedro Tuesta , a Washington-based economist for Latin
America at 4Cast Inc. Serra vowed to raise it to 600 reais.  Rousseff last night said social programs and investment
Brazil needs would not be reduced. On the campaign trail, she
vowed cut net public  debt  to about 30 percent of gross domestic
product by 2014 from 41 percent. Latin America’s biggest economy
will grow 7.3 percent this year, the fastest pace since 1986,
according to estimates by the central bank.  Investors will scrutinize Rousseff’s cabinet picks for
clues to how serious she is about restraining spending, said
 Marcela Meirelles , an emerging-market analyst with TCW Group
Inc., which manages about $110 billion. Returning campaign
adviser  Antonio Palocci  to his former post as finance minister
would trigger a “huge rally,” especially in fixed-income
assets, she said.  Central Bank President  Henrique Meirelles  may stay in his
post for another six months to ease the transition, she said.
Meirelles, arriving at Rousseff’s victory party last night, said
“nothing is planned” for him to stay at his job.  Cabinet Picks  “Very early on, this new administration will have to send
a signal to the market,” analyst Meirelles said in a phone
interview from Los Angeles.  Rousseff will benefit from a majority in Congress. The PT
picked up five additional Senate seats in elections last month,
bringing to 14 the number of lawmakers it has in the 81-seat
chamber. Parties backing the government will control another 35,
and in the lower house her coalition got 311 of 513 seats.  Traders are wagering that policy makers, who have kept the
benchmark Selic rate unchanged in their past two meetings after
raising it to 10.75 percent from a record low 8.75 percent
earlier this year, will be forced to resume increases early next
year to curb inflation. The central bank will need to boost
rates to 12.25 percent next year, according to Bloomberg
estimates based on interest rate futures contracts.  “Brazil is going to have an inflationary problem, whether
people believe it or not,” said  Eric Conrads , who helps manage
about $1 billion in emerging-market funds at ING Investment
Management in New York. “If you’re getting a bit more relaxed
on the fiscal front, you add fuel to the fire. The easy job is
over; the hard job is ahead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carla Simoes  in Brasilia at 
 Csimoes1@bloomberg.net 
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  