-- Shanghai Stocks Extend Best Monthly Rally in 15 Months on Factory Output
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-01T07:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/ccb-china-pacific-insurance-baoshan-iron-steel-china-equity-preview.html
China stocks  rose, with the benchmark
index extending a monthly rally, after manufacturing expanded at
the fastest pace in six months and companies from China Shenhua
Energy Co. to  China Construction Bank Corp.  posted higher profit.  Jiangxi Copper Co.  and zinc producer Zhuzhou Smelter Group
Co. paced gains by commodity producers as the Purchasing
Managers’ Index beat forecasts and metal prices rallied. Shenhua
Energy, the largest coal producer, added 3.4 percent and
Construction Bank, the second-biggest lender, rose 2.4 percent.  “The market is only going to go up from here,”  Erwin Sanft , head of China and Hong Kong research at BNP Paribas SA,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview. Earnings growth has
been “very encouraging,” he said.  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, gained 75.19, or 2.5 percent, to close
at 3,054.02, the highest since April 16 and ending a four-day,
2.4 percent losing streak. The  CSI 300 Index  climbed 2.8 percent
to 3,473. The  ChiNext Index  of start-up companies advanced 4
percent, the biggest rally since Oct. 19.  The Shanghai Composite jumped 12 percent last month, the
most among the major indexes tracked globally by Bloomberg, on
expectations central banks around the world will inject more
cash into their economies to boost growth. The Shanghai gauge
remains down 6.8 percent this year after the government raised
bank reserve requirements and curbed lending growth to avert
asset bubbles.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 54.7, China’s
logistics federation said. The reading compared with 53.8 for
both the previous month and the median forecast of 13 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. A second PMI, from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics, jumped to 54.8 from 52.9. A reading above
50 indicates an expansion.  Commodity Producers  An  index  tracking materials producers gained 4.8 percent,
accounting for more than a quarter of the CSI 300’s gain.
Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal, rallied
5.8 percent to 46.27 yuan. Zhuzhou Smelter, China’s biggest
producer of refined zinc, added 6.6 percent to 16.41 yuan.  Copper rose as much as 1.1 percent in London after the
manufacturing data and as investors sought alternatives to a
declining dollar. Aluminum gained 0.8 percent, zinc increased
1.7 percent and lead rose 0.9 percent. Nickel climbed 0.9
percent, while tin advanced 0.7 percent.  Manufacturing growth “surprised on the　upside,”　Barclays
economist  Jian Chang  said in a report to clients today.  Energy Producers  Shenhua added 3.4 percent to 29.57 yuan. The nation’s
largest coal producer posted an 11 percent increase in third-
quarter profit after the company increased production to benefit
from higher prices. Other coal companies also advanced, helping
drive the index of energy producers on the CSI 300 to a 5.3
percent gain.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., the listed unit of China’s fourth-
biggest coal miner, jumped the daily 10 percent limit to a
record 32.33 yuan.  Datong Coal Industry Co. , China’s third-
largest coal company by capacity, increased 6.8 percent to 27
yuan.  An index of financial stocks added 1.4 percent, paring its
annual loss to 17 percent. Construction Bank rose 2.4 percent to
5.16 yuan, the most in two weeks. The bank reported a 31 percent
increase in third-quarter profit from a year ago, fueled by
rising demand for credit and a decrease in non-performing loans.  China Minsheng Banking Corp. , the nation’s first privately
owned bank, advanced 1.1 percent to 5.52 yuan after saying its
third-quarter profit grew 46 percent from a year earlier.  The country’s banks look “very cheap” given their profit
growth, BNP’s Sanft said.  Bank Rating  Chinese company earnings are “coming in strong,”
especially for the nation’s lenders, Goldman Sachs analysts led
by  Helen Zhu  wrote in a note. They upgraded bank stocks to
“overweight” from “neutral.”  The CSI 300, which represents the 300 biggest companies in
China, may rise to 4,300 by next year, Goldman Sachs said.
That’s 27 percent higher than the Oct. 29 closing level.  China’s central bank on Oct. 19 raised benchmark interest
rates for the first time since 2007, signaling confidence in the
recovery, after severing the yuan’s peg to the dollar in June.
The State Council said on Oct. 27 that the economy was
maintaining momentum for “stable and relatively rapid” growth.  “Economic activities remained strong, while inflation
pressures continued to mount,” said  Liu Li-Gang , a Hong Kong-
based economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
“Inflation is far from peaking, which could invite another
interest-rate hike by December.”  Inflation Rate  Inflation in China may have been as high as 4 percent in
October before weakening to less than 3 percent in December, the
Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing  Liu Yuhui , a
researcher at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. Inflation
may quicken to between 4 percent and 5 percent during much of
the first half of 2011, the newspaper cited Liu as saying.  Investors should hedge against inflationary periods by
buying stocks, gold and commodities,  Hao Hong , Beijing-based
global equity strategist for China International Capital Corp.,
wrote in a note to clients. High inflation periods also tend to
correspond with higher median market returns, he said.  Morgan Stanley is predicting a “golden age” for Chinese
consumption as incomes rise and savings rates decline. China’s
consumption will reach two-thirds of the U.S. level and account
for about 12 percent of the world total by 2020, Morgan Stanley
economists Qing Wang and Steven Zhang wrote in a note to clients.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Richard Frost , Allen Wan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  