-- Continental AG, Bosch Push EU to Secure Access to Rare Earths
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-10-31T23:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/continental-ag-bosch-push-eu-to-secure-access-to-rare-earths.html
Continental AG  and  Robert Bosch GmbH ,
Europe’s biggest auto-parts makers, are pushing regulators in
the region to secure the supply of rare-earth metals as China
limits exports of the metals.  Continental , the German tiremaker that buys electric motors
and engine parts containing rare-earth magnets, said it’s
talking to suppliers about alternative sources. Bosch, the
world’s largest car-parts manufacturer, is evaluating the
“potential risks” linked to China’s export policy.  Prices of rare earths, a group of 17 metals also used in
the manufacture of non-automotive products such as disk drives
and smart bombs, have climbed as much as sevenfold in six months
as China reduced its second-half export quota by 72 percent. The
 European Association of Automotive Suppliers , which represents
about 3,000 companies, has asked the European Commission to look
at available options to secure access to the materials.  “This will be hugely important in the future when electric
cars will be mass produced,” said  Lars Holmqvist , chief
executive officer of the Brussels-based group also known as
Clepa, in an interview. “In two years when we make a lot of
electric cars we’ll be lacking these key components.”  Even as development of electric vehicles in Europe lags
behind Asia, where  Toyota Motor Corp.  and Honda Motor Co. are
the leaders, production is set to increase. About 2.2 percent of
an estimated 14.5 million cars made in the European Union in
2013 will be electric cars, said  Andrew Close , an analyst at IHS
Automotive in London. The figure may rise to 6 percent of 17
million cars, or 1 million vehicles, by 2020.  Brussels Meeting  Rare earths are on the agenda of the  CARS 21  forum on Nov.
10 in Brussels, which will be attended by industry ministers
from countries including Germany, France and Italy as well as
company executives, Holmqvist said.  Clepa wants the European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s
executive arm, to consider trade talks with China to get the
country agree not to limit exports, explore ways to secure
delivery contracts from other export nations such as Australia
and look at domestic production in the region.  “The access to rare earths is a key concern for the
European Commission and a key element of European industrial
policy,” EU trade spokesman  John Clancy  said in a statement on
Oct. 29. “We are therefore monitoring the situation closely and
rely on our trade partners to allow markets to function without
impediments or distortions.”  The commission said it couldn’t confirm claims that China
may be blocking exports of rare earths.  Windshields, Mirror Motors  China controls more than 90 percent of world supply,
leading Japan, the U.S. and Germany to seek new supplies. Japan
said Oct. 29 that it had no evidence China resumed exports of
rare-earth metals, after the New York Times reported that China
ended an unannounced embargo on exports of rare earths to the
U.S., Europe and Japan.  China’s customs bureau said there has never been a cutoff
in outbound shipments.  Rare earths are also present in parts of non-electric cars
such as windshields, exhaust systems and seat and mirror motors.
While the elements aren’t as rare in nature as the name implies,
they are difficult to find in profitable concentrations,
expensive for Western producers to extract and are often laced
with radioactive elements.  China has come to dominate the market because it has been
able to produce the elements more cheaply and with fewer
environmental restrictions than competitors.  ‘Potential Risk’  Continental , based in Hanover, Germany, is exploring
options including recycling, new ways to manufacture components
and more efficient uses of rare earths, spokeswoman Simone
Geldhaeuser said. Giving up the use of rare earths could mean
heavier and bigger parts for Europe’s second-largest auto-parts
supplier, she said.  “We must not underestimate the issue,” Geldhaeuser said
in an e-mail. “On the other hand, you have to be careful not to
spread panic.”  Bosch uses rare earths mainly in magnets present in
electric engines, said Richard Aumayer, head of government
relations at the Stuttgart, Germany-based manufacturer. “At the
moment it’s a potential risk.”  Harald Elsner, a geologist at the  German Federal Institute
for Geosciences and Natural Resources , said the export
restrictions mean China is selling only rarer, pricier materials
like neodymium and dysprosium used in magnets and lasers, while
holding back cheaper elements such as cerium, which is used in
automobile catalytic converters. Companies making cerium
products are “left high and dry,” he said.  Electromagnets  Faurecia SA , Europe’s largest maker of car interiors, said
it sources materials for exhaust systems and catalytic
converters from South Africa. The Nanterre, France-based company
won’t be affected by a slowdown of Chinese rare-earth exports, a
spokesman said.  European suppliers are already researching ways to make
electromagnets which don’t use rare earths more efficient so
that they will eventually match the performance of charge-
retaining rare-earth magnets, said Egil Mollestad, chief
technology officer at Oslo-based Think Global AS, which makes
the Think City electric car.  At the same time, automakers in Europe are preparing to
increase their offerings in hybrid and electric cars.  PSA Peugeot Citroen , Europe’s second-largest carmaker, last
month displayed a hybrid version of its 3008 crossover at the
Paris Motor Show. Renault SA is aligning its Zoe electric city-
car due in 2012 with the 17,500 euro price of its comparably
equipped Clio diesel.  Daimler AG  set up a venture this year with
 BYD Co. , the Chinese maker backed by  Warren Buffett , to develop
electric vehicles in China.  “Probably the European community has not put enough
relevance to that topic,” CEO  Dieter Zetsche  said in an
interview in Beijing last month about rare earths. “It’s a mid-
term, long-term issue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  