-- Ted Sorensen, Author of John F. Kennedy's `Berliner' Speech, Dies Aged 82
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2010-11-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/ted-sorensen-john-f-kennedy-s-wordsmith-aide-speechwriter-dies-at-82.html
Theodore Sorensen , who helped craft
some of the most quoted and analyzed speeches in American
history as a top adviser to President  John F. Kennedy , has died.
He was 82.  Sorensen had suffered a stroke last month. His death was
confirmed by Laurie Morris, a special assistant at the law firm
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP in New York.  One of the last surviving members of Kennedy’s inner
circle, Sorensen served as senior adviser and special counsel,
briefing the president and offering advice on everything from
electoral politics to the  Cuban Missile Crisis .  “Ted lived an extraordinary life that made our country --
and our world -- more equal, more just, and more secure,”
President  Barack Obama  said in a statement yesterday.
“Generations of Americans entered public service aspiring to
follow in his footsteps.”  Sorensen collaborated with Kennedy on, among other
speeches, the 1961  inaugural address , in which the new president
told Americans, “Ask not what your country can do for you; ask
what you can do for your country.” Throughout his life,
Sorensen deflected credit for that famous passage.  ‘I Helped’  “That line represented what John F. Kennedy stood for,
which was service to country,” Sorensen said in a 2003
interview with Bloomberg Radio. “I have always maintained that
President Kennedy wrote every line, every speech, every book. I
helped, I’m proud that I helped. And I’m proud that I helped on
that particular speech.”  Sorensen took a slightly different tack in “ Counselor ,”
his 2008 memoir: “The truth is that I simply don’t remember
where the line came from.”  Sorensen cited the 1961 inaugural address as one of
Kennedy’s three most eloquent speeches, along with his 1963
 commencement address  on world peace at American University (“We
all inhabit this small planet. We all breathe the same air. We
all cherish our children’s future. And we are all mortal.”) and
his 1963 speech in divided Berlin (“As a free man, I take pride
in the words, ‘Ich bin ein Berliner.’”)  He said three other speeches were Kennedy’s most important:
his address to the nation on the Cuban missile crisis in 1962,
his June 1963  address  on civil rights, and his 1960 campaign
speech to Protestant ministers on religion.  Speeches Stood Out  “John F. Kennedy’s speeches stood out because they revived
idealism, eloquence and progressivism, after a decade of
Eisenhower’s bland, dry approach and  Joe McCarthy ’s evil
tirades,” Sorensen wrote.  Kennedy hired Sorensen soon after winning election to the
U.S. Senate in 1952. Just 24, Sorensen became one of the
Massachusetts Democrat’s most trusted advisers and helped him
gather the material for his Pulitzer Prize-winning book,
“ Profiles in Courage .” The two repeatedly denied reports that
it was Sorensen who really wrote it.  Arthur Schlesinger Jr ., who worked as a special assistant
to Kennedy, first encountered the “Kennedy-Sorensen team”
while working on Democrat  Adlai Stevenson ’s presidential
campaign in 1956. Kennedy, after an unsuccessful bid to be
Stevenson’s running mate, gained notice for his convention
speech nominating Stevenson for president. Schlesinger said
Sorensen and Kennedy labored together on the address until
almost dawn.  Faithful Associate  “There was no question which was the dominant partner,”
Schlesinger wrote in “A Thousand Days,” his 1965 book, “but
there was no question either that in Sorensen Kennedy had found
a remarkably intelligent, sensitive and faithful associate.”  Theodore Chaikin Sorensen  was born on May 8, 1928, in
Lincoln, Nebraska, one of five children of Christian Sorensen
and the former Annis Chaikin. His father, known as “C.A.,” was
a Republican who served as state attorney general from 1929 to
1933.  Sorensen earned his undergraduate degree in 1949 and law
degree in 1951 from the University of Nebraska, then moved to
Washington to work for a predecessor of the Department of Health
& Human Services.  A stint on a joint congressional committee studying the
Railroad Retirement System introduced Sorensen to Democratic
 Senator Paul Douglas  of Illinois, who recommended him to
Kennedy, the newly elected Democratic senator from
Massachusetts.  Odd Job Interview  In a job interview, Sorensen pressed Kennedy on whether he
had been “soft” on Republican Senator Joe McCarthy’s anti-
communist “witch-hunting,” Sorensen recalled in his memoir.  “JFK must have thought I was a bit odd, as well as
headstrong and presumptuous, a new job applicant asking
questions about his political positions,” Sorensen wrote. Yet
Kennedy hired him as an aide, tasked with preparing a
legislative program to revive the New England economy.  Following Kennedy’s starring role at the 1956 Democratic
convention, Sorensen accompanied him on a nationwide tour to
prepare for his ultimately successful 1960 presidential bid.  During the tense showdown with the Soviet Union in 1962
over missiles in Cuba, Sorensen drafted Kennedy’s correspondence
with Soviet leader  Nikita Khrushchev . He also wrote Kennedy’s
Oct. 22  speech  to the nation announcing the U.S. blockade of
Cuba.  “We no longer live in a world where only the actual firing
of weapons represents a sufficient challenge to a nation’s
security to constitute maximum peril,” Kennedy said in the
nationally televised speech. “Nuclear weapons are so
destructive, and ballistic missiles are so swift, that any
substantially increased possibility of their use or any sudden
change in their deployment may well be regarded as a definite
threat to peace.”  German Jelly Donut  German speakers long reminded Sorensen that the famous
formulation “Ich bin ein Berliner,” Kennedy’s  declaration of
unity  with the citizens of divided Berlin in June 1963, was
grammatically imprecise.  Sorensen came to the conclusion that his goal -- “I am a
Berliner” -- would best have been put, “Ich bin Berliner,”
and that the “ein” made the sentence refer to a type of German
jelly donut, the Berliner. In his memoir, Sorensen took
responsibility for the error, though many linguists considered
it a minor mistake, if one at all.  Kennedy Assassination  Following Kennedy’s assassination in November 1963,
Sorensen stayed on through the transition and wrote some early
speeches for the new president,  Lyndon Johnson , before resigning
at the end of February 1964. He wrote a book about his boss,
“ Kennedy ,” published in 1965, that was an international best-
seller.  In 1968 he helped lead the presidential campaign of  Robert Kennedy , which ended, like his brother’s presidency, in
assassination. “What a president he would have been,” Sorensen
wrote of Robert in his memoir.  Sorensen himself unsuccessfully sought the Democratic
nomination for U.S. Senate from New York in 1970.  President  Jimmy Carter , taking office in 1977, picked
Sorensen to lead the Central Intelligence Agency. Sorensen, who
said he would seek “to get rid of the ‘dirty tricks’ image of
the CIA,” withdrew his name from consideration amid resistance
from some senators.  Chappaquiddick  Among other matters, the senators were concerned that
Sorensen had registered as a conscientious objector when he
turned 18 in 1946, and had helped Senator  Edward Kennedy , the
youngest of the Kennedy brothers, try to explain the 1969
accident in which a woman passenger died when he drove his car
off a bridge on Chappaquiddick Island in Massachusetts.  Sorensen joined the New York law firm of Paul, Weiss,
Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison in 1966 and practiced international
law there for more than 36 years as a senior partner before
becoming of counsel.  He had three sons with his first wife, Camilla Palmer
Sorensen. That marriage ended in divorce, as did a brief second
marriage. He had a daughter with his third wife,  Gillian Martin
Sorensen , a former United Nations official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurence Arnold  in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  