-- Medvedev’s Vietnam Visit Brings Nuclear Plant Deal
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-10-31T10:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/medvedev-s-vietnam-visit-brings-accord-to-build-first-nuclear-power-plant.html
Russia agreed to build Vietnam’s
first nuclear power plant in a ceremony in Hanoi presided over
by Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  as he seeks to revive ties
with the former Soviet ally.  Sergei Kiriyenko , head of the Russian state nuclear holding
company Rosatom Corp., and Vietnam’s Industry and Trade Minister
Vu Huy Hoang signed an accord for building two reactors by 2020.  “Our partners took an important political decision to
entrust us with construction of Vietnam’s first nuclear power
plant,” Kiriyenko told reporters today. “This is the first
step.”  Vietnam is developing new sources of energy to end
blackouts and meet demand from its 86 million people. The
government forecasts economic growth will quicken to as much as
8 percent annually through 2020. Residents of urban areas
including Ho Chi Minh City, the nation’s largest, and the
capital Hanoi, are subject to periodic daylong power cuts.  Vietnam’s government has picked four sites at which it will
build at least four reactors each, Kiriyenko said.  The nuclear plant deal, which was among more than a dozen
signed between Russia and Vietnam in Hanoi today, envisages the
construction of two reactors with capacity of 1,000 megawatts to
1,200 megawatts each, he said. Once completed, the plant would
supply “a significant part of Vietnam’s power market,”
Medvedev said.  Hydro-Power Plant  OAO Rushydro , Russia’s biggest renewable energy company,
also signed a preliminary agreement with Vietnam Oil & Gas
Group, known as PetroVietnam, to build a hydro-power plant in
Vietnam during the same ceremony. RusHydro plans to buy a
controlling stake in Dakdrinh Hydropower Co., which is building
the 125-megawatt plant and is currently 75 percent owned by
PetroVietnam, the Russian company said in an e-mailed statement
today. The two parties will prepare the draft contracts before
the year-end, it said.  The two countries will cooperate on energy and work
together on oil and gas projects in Russia, Vietnam and third
countries, Medvedev and his Vietnamese counterpart  Nguyen Minh Triet  said at a briefing.  VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest bank, signed an
agreement with Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam,
the nation’s third-biggest lender, to set up a joint $500
million fund for investing in energy and mining, VTB Chief 
Executive Officer Andrei Kostin told reporters. Next year 
the parties may start the first stage of the project by raising
$85 million in the capital markets to complement $10 million 
contributed by VTB and $5 million by the Vietnamese partner, 
Kostin said.  The transactions capped Medvedev’s two-day trip to the
Southeast Asian nation, with a delegation that includes  OAO
Gazprom  Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  and TNK-BP
Executive Director  German Khan . The focus of the visit was
trade, economic relations, investment and cooperation in
banking,  Sergei Prikhodko , Medvedev’s foreign policy aide, said
before the group’s departure.  Russia also planned to complete an agreement supporting the
sale of  BP Plc ’s assets in Vietnam to TNK-BP. Energy Minister
 Sergei Shmatko  said today additional work was needed for the
accord to fructify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Hanoi via the Moscow newsroom at   ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptioghe@bloomberg.net  