-- Texas Rangers Beat Giants, Trail Baseball's World Series Two Games to One
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-10-31T04:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/texas-rangers-beat-giants-trail-baseball-s-world-series-two-games-to-one.html
Mitch Moreland ’s first career home
run against a left-handed pitcher helped the Texas Rangers to
their first-ever win in a World Series game.  Moreland, a 25-year-old rookie first baseman, hit a three-
run homer last night as Texas beat the San Francisco Giants 4-2
after dropping the first two contests in the best-of-seven
series.  “I just wanted to get a good pitch to hit,” Moreland said
in a televised post-game interview. “I fouled off a few good
pitches, finally got a pitch I could drive and put a good swing
on it.”  Colby Lewis  pitched 7 2/3 innings for the Rangers, allowing
two solo home runs, and  Josh Hamilton  added a solo shot off of
Giants starter  Jonathan Sanchez  at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington,
Texas.  Nelson Cruz  led off the bottom of the second inning with a
double off the center-field wall.  Bengie Molina  later drew a
two-out walk before Moreland battled Sanchez over a nine-pitch
at-bat, sending the final offering over the right-field wall.  With Games 3 through 5 in the American League ballpark, the
designated-hitter rule was in effect, leaving Moreland to bat in
the No. 9 position that would likely be occupied by a pitcher in
a National League stadium.  “That’s the American League, and their guy got a big
hit,” Giants manager  Bruce Bochy  said at a postgame news
conference. “That’s what you deal with with the DH.”  The left-handed batting Moreland hit nine home runs during
the regular season, none in his 23 plate appearances against
lefties.  “That was a huge home run for us tonight,” Rangers
manager  Ron Washington  said at a postgame news conference. “It
put us on the board, gave us a little bit of breathing room and
Colby Lewis took it from there.”  Postseason Record  Lewis, who beat the New York Yankees twice in the American
League Championship Series, raised his record this postseason to
3-0.  “It’s your job; you’ve got to go out and perform,” he
said in a televised interview after the game. “We had to shut
the door tonight, and I was fortunate to go out and command the
strike zone and make the pitches when I needed to.”  The Giants are seeking their first World Series title since
1954, when they were playing in New York. The Rangers are
playing in the World Series for the first time.  San Francisco scored 20 runs at AT&T Park to take a 2-0
series lead and managed two solo homers last night.  Cody Ross 
hit a seventh-inning pitch by Lewis over the left-field fence
for his fifth home run of the postseason, and  Andres Torres 
added his first playoff homer in the eighth.  Lewis lasted 7 2/3 innings, allowing five hits while
striking out six and walking two.  Sanchez’s Outing  Sanchez, who was pulled after throwing just 50 pitches in
Game 6 of the National League Championship Series, lasted 4 2/3
innings and took the loss, giving up four earned runs on six
hits with three strikeouts and just as many walks.  Rangers closer Neftali Feliz earned his first save of the
postseason, striking out  Pat Burrell , retiring Ross on a long
fly ball and striking out  Juan Uribe  while reaching 99 miles per
hour (159 kilometers per hour) on the radar gun to end the game
in 2 hours, 51 minutes.  Burrell had four strikeouts in four plate appearances and
is 0-for-9 with eight strikeouts in the series.  “My night wasn’t good,” the Giants left fielder said.
“That’s not exactly how you draw it up in your pregame routine.
It’s a bad time to struggle. There’s no way around it, I’m
getting pitches to hit and just not doing anything with them.”  Bochy said he hadn’t decided whether to remove Burrell from
the lineup for tonight’s Game 4, when San Francisco’s  Madison Bumgarner  takes on the Rangers’  Tommy Hunter .  “Their guy threw well,” Bochy said. “We had a few guys
that were off tonight but you give their pitcher credit. He
threw a great ballgame.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net .
NI MLB
NI MLBRANGERS
NI TX
NI MLBGIANTS
NI CA
NI US 