-- Food Inflation Rising as Cooking Oil to Catch Grain
-- B y   C l a i r e   L e o w ,   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-11-01T11:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/food-inflation-rising-as-cooking-oil-poised-to-catch-up-with-grain-gains.html
Cooking oils, left behind in this
year’s surge in agriculture prices, are poised to catch up with
grains as record demand cuts stockpiles by the most in 17 years.  Inventories of soybean oil and palm oil, used by Nestle SA
and Unilever and in everything from Hellmann’s mayonnaise to
Snickers candy bars, will drop 12 percent in the coming year as  China  and India increase consumption 11 percent, U.S. Department
of Agriculture data show. Food prices climbed in September to
the highest level since the crisis in 2008 that sparked riots
from  Haiti  to  Egypt , the United Nations says.  “China’s economy is growing and there’s no reason why the
country will take any less food next week, next month, or next
year,” said Steve Nicholson, a commodity procurement specialist
at International Food Products Corp., a distributor and adviser
on food ingredients in Fenton,  Missouri . “We’ve been able to
produce more food in the past 2,000 years, but can we do it fast
enough to meet the demand from China and other emerging
economies to stave off a crisis?”  Increasing wealth in Brazil, India and China is boosting
demand for grains, dairy, meat and cooking oils. While  Sime
Darby Bhd ., the world’s biggest listed palm-oil producer, is
benefiting from rising prices, governments from Beijing to  New
Delhi  are trying to curb food inflation by raising imports,
limiting exports or selling stockpiles. Per-capita use of
vegetable oils in China has more than doubled in a decade, said
Bill Nelson, a senior economist at Doane Advisory Services Co.,
an agricultural research and advisory company in St. Louis.  Farm Costs Soar  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight
futures climbed 30 percent this year, led by corn, wheat, coffee
and cotton, as floods in  Canada , Pakistan and China and drought
in  Russia  and across  Europe  killed crops. The economies of China
and  India , the biggest consumers of cooking oils, are growing at
three times the speed of the U.S.  Water scarcity, increasing global temperatures and the
potential for dry weather may threaten farm production, said
Nomura Holdings Inc. economists and strategists including Robert Subbaraman in a report dated Sept. 8. About 1.8 billion people
will live in countries or regions with absolute water scarcity
by 2025, according to the UN Food & Agriculture Organization.  The CRB/Reuters U.S. Spot Raw Industrials index, a gauge of
22 commodities including butter and soybean oil, rose to an all-
time high on Oct. 25. Meat prices advanced to a two-decade high
in August, according to a UN index.  Food Demand  Record demand for food and biofuel may combine with delays
to planting in  South America  to extend gains in cooking oils,
said Murali Krishna P.V., chief executive officer of TransGraph
Consulting Pvt., an adviser to  Bunge Ltd . and Cadbury Plc.  Palm oil traded on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange may
rise 18 percent to 3,600 ringgit ($1,161) a metric ton by March,
extending this year’s 15 percent advance, said Murali, based on
the Oct. 29 close. Soybean oil traded on the  Chicago  Board of
Trade may gain 16 percent to 57 cents a pound, adding to this
year’s 21 percent rally, he said in an interview from Hyderabad,
India. Palm oil advanced 1 percent today to end at 3,092 ringgit
per ton, the highest finish since July 2008.  “The critical period of tightness is yet to come,” said  Dorab Mistry , a director at Godrej International Ltd. who has
traded cooking oils for more than three decades and who
correctly predicted the gains in palm oil and soybean prices
since June. “We’re not doing enough to raise production of
vegetable oils and the weather the world over is troublesome.”  A lack of rain in the center-west of  Brazil  is delaying
planting in a region that grows 47 percent of the country’s
soybean output, the world’s second-largest crop behind the U.S.  Brazilian Planting  Farmers in Mato Grosso state planted 16.4 percent of the
planned area as of Oct. 21, compared with 36.8 percent a year
ago, farm research institute IMEA said Oct. 22. Plantings in the
other center-west areas of Goias and Mato Grosso do Sul also
lagged behind plan, said Marco Antonio dos Santos, a forecaster
at Sao Paulo-based Somar Meteorologia Ltda.  Investor demand also explains the jump in prices, and poses
a risk to further rallies. Low  interest rates  and a weaker
dollar are encouraging some investors to buy commodities, said  Atul Chaturvedi , chief executive at Adani Wilmar Ltd., India’s
second-biggest cooking-oil importer.  The U.S. Federal Reserve has kept its benchmark interest-
rate near zero since December 2008 and the U.S. Dollar Index, a
gauge against six counterparts, slumped 8.5 percent in the third
quarter. Commodity assets in exchange-traded products, medium-
term notes and funds linked to indexes rose 9 percent to a
record $320 billion in September, according to Barclays Capital.  Money Supply  “If the governments wake up and start contracting the
money supply by raising interest rates, which China has done,
commodities will lose some of their sheen,” Chaturvedi said.  Rains in Brazil and Argentina, the world’s second and
third-biggest soybean producers, would help crops, potentially
increasing supply. Farmers in  Argentina  planted 13.5 percent of
the planned crop area, compared with 5.5 percent a year earlier,
the Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange said Oct. 28.  Government intervention may also damp prices. Consumer
inflation in China rose 3.6 percent in September, the most in
almost two years, driven by an 8 percent increase in food costs.
The government auctioned 300,000 tons of rapeseed oil from
stockpiles on Oct. 20 and the State Council said a week later
that hoarders would be “severely” punished.  While the UN’s Food Price Index rose 23 percent in the 12
months ending in September, it’s still about 12 percent below
the 2008 peak. Food security is of less concern now than in the
last several years because grains stocks are bigger and a
weakened global economy will stunt demand, Abdolreza Abbassian,
a senior economist at the UN FAO, said last month.  Oil-Palm Tree  Palm oil, extracted from the fruit of the oil-palm tree,
has grown in popularity because of increasing concern about
trans fats, according to the USDA. Soybean oil, accounting for
about a fifth of the weight of a soybean, was the world’s
largest source of vegetable oil until about 2005, when it was
overtaken by palm oil, the USDA says.  Biofuels are also boosting demand for vegetable oil.
Biodiesel output will climb to 18 million tons this year, five
times the 3.5 million tons produced in 2005, said Claus Keller,
a commodity analyst at F.O. Licht in Ratzeburg,  Germany .  China, the world’s biggest soybean importer, may buy a
record 60 million tons in 2010-2011, according to unidentified
global grain trading companies cited by the China National Grain
& Oils Information Center, owned by the state body which manages
the country’s food supply and logistics.  Oil Inventories  Inventories of palm oil and soybean oil, the two most used
oils, will fall to a total of 6.72 million tons by the end of
the 2010-2011 marketing year from 7.64 million a year before,
the biggest percentage drop since 1993-1994, USDA data show.  China’s vegetable oils consumption has more than doubled to
22.4 kilograms per capita in the past decade and may reach 28.4
kilograms in five years, said Nelson from Doane Advisory
Services. That compares with 39 kilograms in the U.S., he said.  “China just keeps taking soybeans and vegetable oils,”
said Nicholson from International Food Products. “It’s more
than a little scary how insatiable their appetite is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claire Leow in  Singapore  at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 