-- G-20 Mania Grips Seoul as Kids Add Currencies to Homework
-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 2010-11-01T06:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/g-20-mania-in-seoul-means-kids-study-currencies-as-lee-tightens-security.html
City officials leave their desks this
week to sweep the streets of  Seoul  while seven-year-old children
study economics as South Korea mobilizes its citizens for the
Group of 20 meeting.  Posters hail the summit and video billboards tower above
central Seoul exhorting its 10 million citizens to mind their
manners when  Barack Obama  and  Hu Jintao  visit on Nov. 11-12.  South Korea President  Lee Myung Bak , nicknamed
“bulldozer” during his days running  the nation’s biggest
construction company , is deploying up to 60,000 police and
troops to avoid the burning cars, smashed windows and 900
arrests that marked the last G-20 meeting in Toronto in June.  “I cried tears and Korea’s national anthem echoed in my
heart when South Korea was selected to host the G-20 summit,” a
fourth-grader wrote in a posting on a children’s website hosted
by  naver.com , South Korea’s most-visited internet portal.  The child, whose name and school are not identified to
protect their privacy, is among hundreds who have posted
 questions  on the site asking for help with G-20 homework
projects. The Kids Chosun Ilbo, the junior edition of  the
nation’s highest circulation newspaper , published a page-2
article Oct. 26 explaining the currency market and the contents
of the communique issued by G-20 financial chiefs on Oct. 23.  Lee hailed the event as a chance for the country to be a
“protagonist in world affairs” in an Oct. 18 nationwide radio
address. Advertisements on television promote the G-20 as an
occasion to celebrate the nation’s rise from the ruins of the
1950-53 Korean War to Asia’s fourth-biggest economy.  Korean War  Demonstrators in Europe and North America clashed with
police at previous G-20 meetings in Pittsburgh and London. The
International Monetary Fund’s $57 billion bailout of South Korea
during the 1997 Asian financial crisis, which helped avert the
economy’s collapse, also triggered protests in Seoul over bank
sales and job losses.  The city of Gyeongju  in the south of the country provided a
taste of what’s to come this time when it asked local farmers to
grow special apples for the meeting of G-20 finance chiefs last
month. The farmers ripened parts of each apple’s skin at varying
rates to produce the name of a G-20 country on each fruit.  In Seoul,  the education ministry  postponed college entrance
examinations by a week until Nov. 18 so they don’t clash with
the summit. Schools in the vicinity of  Coex , the meeting’s venue,
may change their hours to cut traffic, according to Kim In Jong,
chief of the presidential security service.  Hyundai Limos  Hyundai Motor Co. , the nation’s largest automaker, on Oct.
28 delivered 129 vehicles to summit organizers, including Equus
limousines to chauffer leaders from Incheon airport and around
Seoul.  KT Corp. , South Korea’s largest provider of phone and
Internet services, is providing smartphones and tablet computers
for leaders and senior officials.  “We’re ready to make it possible for participants from
overseas to watch TV channels from back home,”  Seok Ho Ik , vice
chairman of KT Corp., said last month. “We want to go beyond
just providing communication support for the meetings, to
promote South Korea as the No. 1 country for IT.”  Kim of the  presidential security service  said 20,000 police
officers are being mobilized to keep demonstrators away from the
 Coex  conference site in southern Seoul.  “We will deal with violent protests with a level of
strictness never before seen,” he said at a briefing on Oct. 8.  Protest History  Kim also said South Korea is on alert for possible threats
from North Korea, including explosions at “major facilities,”
suicide bombings, chemical assaults or cyber attacks.  North Korea’s state-run Rodong Sinmun newspaper today said
the South’s security preparations were “slander.”  “All this fuss has an extremely provocative and foul
nature,” the newspaper said in an editorial carried by the
Korean Central News Agency.  South Korea has a history of street protests over labor
issues and demonstrations at gatherings of world leaders in the
region. At an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Busan
in November 2005 attended by then U.S. President  George W. Bush .,
riot police used water cannons and batons to disperse 30,000
protesters, some wielding iron bars.  Human Rights  In Hong Kong less than a month later, at least 1,500 South
Korean farmers rallied outside World Trade Organization talks,
many battling with police in the city’s worst violence in a
decade.  Disruptive demonstrations, often focused on poverty, the
environment or human rights, have been a feature of world
summits since riots broke out in Seattle at  World Trade
Organization  talks in 1999.  Kim said he’s obtained intelligence on 500 people with a
history of organizing violent protests, who will be kept out of
the country or closely watched. A further 40,000 police and
troops will be on hand to guard against attacks by international
terrorists or North Korea, Kim said.  Heavy-handed tactics may not go down well with visiting
dignitaries. Singapore was criticized when it deployed 10,000
security personnel and banned outdoor protests in 2006 during
World Bank and International Monetary Fund meetings. Then World
Bank President  Paul Wolfowitz  said the city-state suffered
“enormous damage” to its reputation.  ‘Divided Nation’  South Korea’s $832.5 billion economy grew more than
fourfold since the  Summer Olympics in 1988 , a year after South
Korea emerged from almost three decades of military dictatorship.  “The event will help raise global awareness of South Korea,
whose image has been predominantly that of a divided nation or
just another fast-developing economy,” said Lee Dong Hun, a
research fellow at  Samsung Economic Research Institute . “This
is a chance for South Korea to elevate its status as a real
contributor and lead player in global affairs.”  He estimates South Korea can reap at least 21.6 trillion
won ($19.2 billion) from hosting the G-20 meetings as increased
global recognition helps boost  exports . South Korea’s economy is
forecast to grow at 6 percent this year.  Still, more than 430 stores inside the Coex site may suffer
reduced sales on Nov. 12, when ordinary citizens will be banned
from entering the building as security is tightened for leaders
including U.S. President Obama.  Shuttered Stores  Hyundai Department Store Co.  said it will close its Coex
branch on Nov. 11 and 12. Average weekday sales in November last
year were about 1.5 billion won, the Seoul-based company, said
in an Oct. 26 e-mail response to questions.  South Korean sports personalities and film stars have
joined the call to promote the event.  Kim Yuna , the Olympic champion figure skater dubbed Queen
Yuna by her fans, joined  Manchester United  soccer player  Park Ji Sung  as goodwill ambassadors for the summit. A 20 meter high by
100 meter wide poster featuring Kim and actress  Han Hyo Joo  in
front of Seoul City Hall bears the slogan: “The world’s future
opens with Korea.”  “ Girls Generation ,” a nine-member pop group famous at
home and in Japan for songs including “ Kissing You ” and “ Baby
Baby ,” joined a team of stars supporting the event.  Today, Yeun Jae Han, 48, an assistant director with  the
Seoul Metropolitan Government ’s environment management division,
will head out to the conference venue to help volunteers scrape
gum from nearby streets.  “I’m so proud of being part of this meaningful event for
the nation,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net 
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net 
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.ne  