-- Gulf Market Regulators Must Ensure Transparency, Hawkamah's Saidi Says
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-10-31T14:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/gulf-market-regulators-must-ensure-transparency-hawkamah-s-saidi-says.html
Market regulators in the Persian
Gulf must share information and enhance transparency as bourses
take steps to be promoted to emerging-market status, according
to the executive director of the  Hawkamah Institute for
Corporate Governance .  “We need to have an arrangement in place between
regulators so that there’s much more sharing of information,”
Nasser Saidi said at the Fifth Annual Regional Corporate
Governance Conference in Muscat, Oman today. Promotions to
emerging market status at index provider  MSCI Inc.  would ensure
“better interaction between companies, investors markets and
regulators; it would mean we’d be recognized internationally.”  Tightened credit, coupled with an exodus of speculators
from the Dubai real-estate market, resulted in a collapse of the
region’s property industry and lower trading volumes. Police
investigations of senior business officials, including
executives of Nakheel PJSC,  Damas International Ltd.  and  Tamweel
PJSC , tainted the emirate’s image as Dubai’s  benchmark index
tumbled  80 percent to 1,764.54 from its peak in 2005.  Gulf equity markets are taking steps to improve their
chances of being promoted to emerging market status at MSCI,
with Qatar and the United Arab Emirates signaling that they will
soon implement short selling to meet the index provider’s
requirements.  MSCI classifies six of the Gulf’s seven bourses as frontier
markets, a designation that typically applies to economies and
financial markets that are less developed than emerging markets
and that have more restrictions on foreign stock ownership.  Ownership Limit  Qatar’s exchange expects the foreign ownership limit in
companies to increase to 49 percent from 25 percent,  Saif Al- Mansoori , deputy chief executive officer of the exchange, said
last week. Saudi Arabia’s market regulator is working on foreign
ownership of shares and listed companies are being asked to make
disclosures available in English so international investors can
access information, General Manager  Abdullah al-Suweilmy  said
Oct. 25. Saudi Arabia is the only Gulf bourse not classified at
MSCI.  Merging Gulf bourses would also help attract international
investors, Saidi said. “We need size, depth and liquidity. All
of that calls for mergers and the consolidation of exchanges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net  