-- Tiger Woods Yields No. 1 Golf Ranking to Lee Westwood, Capping Torrid Year
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2010-10-31T23:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/tiger-woods-to-yield-ranking-as-world-s-no-1-golfer-to-england-s-westwood.html
Tiger Woods ’s record five-year reign
as the world’s top-ranked golfer is over, marking another low
point in a torrid 12 months for the 14-time major champion.  Lee Westwood  took over top spot in the  Official World Golf
Ranking  for the first time, becoming the only European player
to top the list since  Nick Faldo  in 1994. Westwood was ranked as
low as 266th seven years ago and is only the fourth player to
gain the top spot without winning a major tournament.  “When you’re growing up and people say, ‘What do you want
to achieve,’ everyone says ‘I want to be the best in the
world,’” Westwood said in comments posted on the European Tour
website. “Right at this moment, I can show people the world
rankings and say ‘I am the best on the planet.’”  Westwood, 37, hasn’t played since Oct. 10 as he continues
to recover from a calf injury that’s limited him to one
tournament finish since July’s British Open. U.S. PGA champion
 Martin Kaymer  would have become No. 1 had he finished first or
second at yesterday’s Andalucia Valderrama Masters in Spain. The
German, who had won his past three events, was 21st.  Woods drops to No. 2 and Kaymer remains third in the
rankings.  Phil Mickelson  is fourth and  Steve Stricker  rounds out
the top five.  Woods’s personal and professional life began to unravel
after he crashed his Cadillac into a fire hydrant while leaving
his Florida home early on Nov. 27. The incident sparked
revelations about repeated marital infidelity, which Woods
confessed to in December, leading to his divorce in August.
Woods lost sponsors including Accenture Plc, AT&T Inc. and
Procter & Gamble Co.’s Gillette razors, and failed to win a
tournament this year after taking a break of almost five months.  Record Run  Woods, 34, spent 281 consecutive weeks as No. 1 and 623
weeks in total atop the rankings. His next tournament is the
World Golf Championships’ HSBC Champions in China from Nov. 4-7,
according to his website. Westwood is also scheduled to play in
the tournament.  “I have a great relationship with Tiger,” said Westwood.
“We have mutual respect and have always got on well, on and off
the course. I give him a little bit of stick and he gives me a
little.”  Westwood is the third British player to be world No. 1,
after Faldo and  Ian Woosnam , and the 13th in all since the
rankings began in 1986.  He’s had 20 career wins on the European Tour and topped its
money list in 2000 and 2009. He was runner-up at this year’s
Masters Tournament and British Open.  Westwood won June’s St. Jude Classic for his second victory
on the U.S. PGA Tour and last month helped Europe beat the U.S.
in the Ryder Cup.  The 25-year-old Kaymer finished the Andalucia Masters in a
tie for 21st place at 7-over par. Northern Ireland’s  Graeme McDowell , the U.S. Open champion, won the title at 3-under, two
shots ahead of Denmark’s  Soren Kjeldsen ,  Damien McGrane  of
Ireland and Gareth Maybin of Northern Ireland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 