-- Iran's Ahmadinejad Seeks `Economic Revolution' With Subsidies, Energy Plan
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-10-31T08:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/iran-s-ahmadinejad-seeks-economic-revolution-with-subsidies-energy-plan.html
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , whose government has started implementing a plan to
slash subsidies on food and utilities, called on Iranians to
brace themselves for an “economic revolution” and urged them
to co-operate by reducing their energy use.  The main aim of the program “is for consumption to be
optimized and for the country’s riches to be correctly used,”
Ahmadinejad said in an interview on state television late
yesterday.  “When subsidies are given to the population as a whole,
the wealth is being wasted,” the president said. Under the new
program the money will be “targeted” to benefit the most needy
citizens, he said.  Iran’s subsidies system, which holds down the cost of goods
such as gasoline and flour, is being revised at a time when
pressure mounts on the country from a fourth round of United
Nations sanctions over the country’s nuclear program, which the
U.S. and allies say is a cover for developing atomic weapons.  Iran aims to build $20 billion in savings in the first 12
months of a five-year subsidies-reduction program begun this
year. It will use 80 percent of that money for cash grants to
the poorest Iranians and for targeted support to energy-
intensive industries.  Earlier this month, the government started crediting the
accounts of the poorest Iranian households in several provinces
to provide a cushion once prices caps are removed. The
government plans to distribute the grants every two months,
Ahmadinejad said.  Transparency  Iranian officials have avoided specifying when the price of
food and utilities will rise and by how much, prompting some
politicians to criticize the government for its lack of
transparency in carrying out the plan. In his TV address,
Ahmadinejad said this was part of the government’s strategy to
prevent the undeserving taking advantage of the new system.  National police chief  Esmail Ahmadi-Moghaddam  said Oct. 1
opposition supporters may try to foment unrest when the state
begins phasing out subsidies in the country of more than 70
million and that they may seek to fuel economic “sedition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net  