-- Ivory Coast Starts Voting in Elections Aimed at Uniting a Divided Nation
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2010-10-31T17:21:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/ivory-coast-votes-in-presidential-election-aimed-at-uniting-divided-nation.html
Ivory Coast  voted in its first
presidential election in a decade, the latest effort to restore
political stability and revive investment in the world’s biggest
cocoa producer.  Voting began as scheduled at 7 a.m. local time at most
polling stations and were mostly closed at 5 p.m, with
extensions at some stations in Abidjan due to delays at the
start. Economic development has been stunted since a 2002
military uprising led to civil conflict and division between a
rebel-held north and a government-controlled south.  “I’ve lost a lot of money over the last 10 years and I am
hoping for change,” Djemory Diabate, a 55-year-old retired
engineer, said in an interview in Abidjan.  The economy, which depends on cocoa for more than a quarter
of its export earnings, has expanded by an annual average of 1.1
percent since the civil war as the country missed out on the
wave of foreign investment in Africa from nations such as China.
Now the government wants to ease dependence on cocoa, the price
of which has fallen about 15 percent this year, and promote the
rubber industry, power generation and oil exploration.  “With respect to investment, there is a lot of interest,”
Wayne Camard, the International Monetary Fund country head, said
in an interview on Oct. 26. “People are waiting to see what
happens.”  Delayed Six Times  The election, which has been delayed at least six times
since 2005, pits President  Laurent Gbagbo  against former
President  Henri Konan Bedie  and ex-Prime Minister  Alassane Ouattara , who gets much of his support from the north.  “We are satisfied,” Konan Bedie said after voting in the
suburb of Cocody in Abidjan. “Elections are unfolding in
calmness.”  Gbagbo, 65, is unlikely to win the 50 percent majority
needed to avoid a run-off election, Ivorian analyst Venance
Konan said in an interview from Abidjan.  Insecurity and logistical troubles may give losing
candidates reason to dispute the results, which may lead to
street protests in Abidjan, Rinaldo Depagne, an analyst at the
Brussels-based International Crisis Group, said in an interview
from Dakar, Senegal. “There could be violence,” he said.  “All of the Muslims in my neighborhood washed themselves
with cold water before they went to vote because we have been
told it will bring good luck,” Souleymane Konate, a 36-year old
disabled man, said from Yamoussoukro, the capital. “The polls
are very well organized. Its quiet here.”  The United Nations and African Union commended the voting
process in a joint e-mailed statement.  Cocoa Price  Cocoa prices soared to a 17-year high in October 2002, on
worries that supplies from the world’s biggest grower would be
disrupted following a flareup of violence that stemmed from an
attempted coup a month earlier. Cocoa hit a six-month high in
January 2006 after protesters attacked a United Nations convoy.  Cocoa prices fell 2.8 percent in London in October, the
sixth consecutive monthly decline, on speculation that the
election may spur production. Cocoa for December delivery slid
16 pounds, or 0.85 percent, to 1,856 pounds ($2,977) a metric
ton on London’s NYSE Liffe exchange on Oct. 29.  Ivory Coast’s dollar-denominated $2.3 billion Eurobond due
in December 2032 is the largest in sub-Saharan Africa. It fell
2.4 percent to $61.89 over the past two weeks. The yield has
jumped to 10.211 percent from 9.912 percent in the same period.  Barry Callebaut AG , the world’s biggest producer of bulk
chocolate, is among buyers of cocoa from Ivory Coast, which
accounted for 35 percent of global cocoa output last year,
according to International Cocoa Organization data.  ‘Enormously Important’  Six million of Ivory Coast’s 21 million inhabitants make a
living out of cocoa, according to the IMF. The West African
nation ranked 163 out of 182 countries on the United Nations
 Human Development Index  last year, with a per-capita gross
domestic product of $1,690.  “Ivorian cocoa has suffered a lack of investment over the
last 10 years because of political uncertainty,” said  Samir Gadio , emerging-markets strategist with  Standard Bank Group Ltd. 
in London. “If that changes with the new administration, we
should see a positive effect.”  Donor nations have linked the scrapping of $3 billion of
Ivory Coast’s $14 billion in international debt to an overhaul
of the cocoa industry, which an elected government would be able
to focus on, he said.  Gbagbo has pledged to build co-processing plants in every
region that grows the beans, he told a rally in Daloa on Oct.
16.  Cheering Crowds  “We are voting today so that we will have peace,” he said
at a voting station in Abidjan’s middle class Riviera suburb as
people cheered and chanted his name. “We are voting today so
that the crisis is over.”  Ivory Coast’s political conflict has revolved around the
issue of nationality of millions of people originating in
neighboring Mali and Burkina Faso. The rebels say northerners
are treated as second-class citizens. Gbagbo supporters argue
that foreigners are trying to win citizenship and vote
illegally.  “The pro-government militias have not disarmed, the rebels
still occupy the north, and the police and the army are on
Gbagbo’s side,” Konan said. “There’s a culture of impunity and
violence.”  Gbagbo asked the police “to subdue all those who are
against the republic,” according to a speech posted on the
presidency’s website. Ouattara on Oct. 26 canceled a rally in
the western town of Guiglo after Gbagbo supporters destroyed
tarpaulins and knocked over chairs.  “This is a great day for Ivory Coast,” Ouattara said
after voting in Abidjan. “I hope everything will unfold in
peace.”  Soldiers, Policemen  Starting on Oct. 29, the UN will have 8,000 soldiers and
1,500 policemen deployed in Ivory Coast, and will increase the
number of patrols, its representative in the country, Young-Jin
Choi, said on Oct. 28. To secure the poll, the national army has
deployed 1,500 soldiers across the country from brigades
comprising government and former rebel fighters. It planned to
send out another 6,500 soldiers before the election, army chief
Philippe Mangou said Oct. 27.  A plan to disarm rebels and integrate them into the
national army, part of a 2007 peace accord, has been slow to be
implemented, Rolake Akinola, a West Africa analyst with Eurasia
Group, said in an interview from London on Oct. 15.  About 5,000 of the 33,000 fighters were disarmed as of
early September, said Meite Sindou, a spokesman for  Guillaume Soro , a former rebel leader who was appointed prime minister as
part of the 2007 peace agreement.  “There is a serious risk of chaos in the days following
the elections,” Konan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pauline Bax  in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Monica Mark in Abidjan via Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net 
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Johannesbrg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 