-- Ivory Coast Starts Voting in Elections Aimed at Uniting a Divided Nation
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x ,   M o n i c a   M a r k   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-10-31T08:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/ivory-coast-starts-voting-in-elections-aimed-at-uniting-a-divided-nation.html
Ivory Coast  began voting today in
its first presidential election in a decade, the latest effort
to restore political stability and revive investment in the
world’s biggest cocoa producer.  While polls were due to open across the country at 7 a.m.
local time and close at 5 p.m. the start has been delayed in
parts of Abidjan, the commercial hub, by the non-arrival of
stickers needed to identify polling stations, Bi Kalou, an
official at a station in the suburb of Deux Plateau, said in an
interview. He didn’t have information on other stations. Voting
began as scheduled in the north of the country.  Economic development has been stunted since a 2002 military
uprising led to civil conflict and division between a rebel-held
north and a government-controlled south.  “An election is needed, not to end the crisis, but as a
step toward that,” said Rinaldo Depagne, an analyst with the
Brussels-based  International Crisis Group ., said before the
election. “The conditions for trouble are there. When I say
trouble, I mean there could be violence.”  The economy, which depends on cocoa for more than a quarter
of its export earnings, has expanded an average 1.1 percent
since the civil war as the country missed out on the wave of
foreign investment in Africa from nations such as China. Now the
government wants to ease dependence on cocoa, the price of which
has fallen about 15 percent this year, and promote the rubber
industry, power generation and oil exploration.  Delayed Six Times  “With respect to investment, there is a lot of interest in
Cote d’Ivoire, but people are waiting to see what happens,”
Wayne Camard, the International Monetary Fund country head, said
in an interview on Oct. 26. “There could be substantial inward
investment as well as local investment once security, and belief
in the system, has been re-established.”  The election, which has been delayed at least six times
since 2005, will pit President  Laurent Gbagbo  against former
President  Henri Konan Bedie  and ex-Prime Minister  Alassane Ouattara , who gets much of his support from the north. Gbagbo,
65, is unlikely to win the 50 percent majority needed to avoid a
run-off election, Ivorian analyst Venance Konan said.  Insecurity and logistical troubles may give losing
candidates reason to dispute the results, which may lead to
street protests in the commercial capital, Abidjan, ICG’s
Depagne said in an interview from Dakar, Senegal.  “Each of the main candidates is convinced that he is going
to win, and it seems as if they’re already preparing themselves
to refuse to accept the results,” Konan said in an interview in
Abidjan.  Cocoa Price  Cocoa prices soared to a 17-year high in October 2002, on
worries that supplies from the world’s biggest grower would be
disrupted following a flareup of violence that stemmed from an
attempted coup a month earlier. Cocoa hit a six-month high in
January 2006 after protesters attacked a United Nations convoy.  Cocoa prices fell 2.8 percent in London in October, the
longest period of decline in seven years, on speculation that
the election may spur production. Cocoa for December delivery
slid 16 pounds, or 0.85 percent, to 1,856 pounds ($2,977) a
metric ton on the NYSE Liffe exchange on Oct. 29.  Ivory Coast’s dollar-denominated $2.3 billion Eurobond due
in December 2032 is the largest in sub-Saharan Africa. It fell
2.4 percent to $61.89 over the past two weeks. The yield has
jumped to 10.211 percent from 9.912 percent in the same period.  Barry Callebaut  AG, the world’s biggest producer of bulk
chocolate, is among buyers of cocoa from Ivory Coast, which
accounted for 35 percent of global cocoa output last year,
according to International Cocoa Organization data.  The price of the bean rose to a one-week high on Oct. 22 on
concern that political unrest may disrupt the cocoa supply.  ‘Enormously Important’  Six million of Ivory Coast’s 21 million inhabitants make a
living out of cocoa, according to the IMF. The West African
nation ranked 163 out of 182 countries on the United Nations
 Human Development Index  last year, with a per-capita gross
domestic product of $1,690.  The elections are “enormously important” to kick-start an
economy that has suffered from years of underinvestment, the
IMF’s Camard said.  “Ivorian cocoa has suffered a lack of investment over the
last 10 years because of political uncertainty,” said  Samir Gadio , emerging-markets strategist with  Standard Bank Group Ltd. 
“If that changes with the new administration, we should see a
positive effect.”  Processing Plants  Ivorian cocoa output rose 1 percent to 1.235 million tons
in the 2009-10 harvest, an official with access to the
confidential information said Oct. 11.  Donor nations have linked the scrapping of $3 billion of
Ivory Coast’s $14 billion in international debt to an overhaul
of the cocoa industry, which an elected government would be able
to focus on, he said.  Gbagbo has pledged to build cocoa-processing plants in
every region that grows the beans, in a plan to “fight youth
unemployment head-on,” he told a rally in Daloa on Oct. 16.  Ivory Coast’s political conflict has revolved around the
issue of nationality of millions of people originating in
neighboring Mali and Burkina Faso. The rebels say northerners
are treated as second-class citizens. Gbagbo supporters argue
that foreigners are trying to win citizenship and vote
illegally.  Security Forces  “The pro-government militias have not disarmed, the rebels
still occupy the north, and the police and the army are on
Gbagbo’s side,” Konan said. “There’s a culture of impunity and
violence.”  Gbagbo asked the police “to subdue all those who are
against the republic,” according to a speech posted on the
presidency’s website. Ouattara on Oct. 26 canceled a rally in
the western town of Guiglo after Gbagbo supporters destroyed
tarpaulins and knocked over chairs.                          Starting on Oct. 29, the UN will have 8,000 soldiers and
1,500 policemen deployed in Ivory Coast, and will increase the
number of patrols, its representative in the country, Young-Jin
Choi, said on Oct. 28. To secure the poll, the national army has
deployed 1,500 soldiers across the country from brigades
comprising government and former rebel fighters. It will send
out another 6,500 soldiers before the election, army chief
Philippe Mangou said Oct. 27.  A plan to disarm rebels and integrate them into the
national army, part of a 2007 peace accord, has been slow to be
implemented, Rolake Akinola, a West Africa analyst with Eurasia
Group, said in a phone interview from London on Oct. 15.  About 5,000 of the 33,000 fighters were disarmed as of
early September, said Meite Sindou, a spokesman for  Guillaume Soro , a former rebel leader who was appointed prime minister as
part of the 2007 peace agreement.  “There is a serious risk of chaos in the days following
the elections,” according to Konan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pauline Bax  in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Monica Mark in Abidjan via Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net 
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 