-- Japan to Build Nuclear Plants in Vietnam, Seek Rare-Earths Supply Deal
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-10-31T07:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/japan-to-build-nuclear-plants-in-vietnam-seek-rare-earths-supply-deal.html
Vietnam agreed to make Japan a
partner in building its nuclear power plants as the two nations
negotiate a broader deal on the development of rare-earth
minerals to secure supplies after China cut exports.  Vietnam and Japan signed a deal to cooperate on rare earths
metals, according to an e-mailed statement from Japan’s Trade
Ministry, which didn’t provide details. The two nations also
signed the agreement on nuclear plants, according to the
release. Kyodo News reported Japan will build two nuclear plants
in Vietnam, citing a statement from the country’s prime
ministers.  The agreements follow three days of meetings involving
Asian leaders in Hanoi, along with the U.S. and Russia. Japanese
companies are seeking sources of rare-earths metals other than
China such as Vietnam to secure supplies, Japanese Foreign
Ministry Spokesman Satoru Sato told reporters in Hanoi on Oct.
29.  Russia also signed a deal with Vietnam to build two nuclear
reactors in Vietnam by 2020 in a ceremony in Hanoi presided over
by Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev .  A sea collision between a Chinese fishing boat and Japanese
Coast Guard vessels near the disputed islands last month soured
relations and reportedly prompted Beijing to cut exports of
rare-earth minerals. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged a steady
supply of the minerals during an Oct. 28 meeting with Japanese
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  and South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak .  Japan will also offer 79 billion yen ($983 million) in
loans to Vietnam for port construction, according to Kyodo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptioghe@bloomberg.net  