-- Jets, Steelers Lose, Patriots Beat Vikings to Improve to 6-1: NFL Week 8
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-01T05:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/jets-lose-first-game-in-five-to-packers-49ers-win-in-london-nfl-week-8.html
Drew Brees  threw two fourth-quarter
touchdown passes as the New Orleans Saints beat the Pittsburgh
Steelers 20-10 in a matchup of the past two Super Bowl winners.  The Steelers’ loss last night in New Orleans came after the
New York Jets had their five-game winning streak snapped with a
9-0 home loss to the Green Bay Packers.  The Steelers and Jets entered Week 8 of the season with 5-1
records, tied with New England for the best in the National
Football League. The Patriots battered  Brett Favre  and the
Minnesota Vikings 28-18 to improve to an NFL-best 6-1 and take a
one-game division lead on the Jets.  “Coach always says, ‘Six games gets you nothing in this
league,’ which is true,” Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady  said
during a news conference. “So we’ve won six games, (but) if we
have six wins at the end of the year, then we haven’t done
anything. There’s a lot of football left.”  The Jets had three turnovers, a failed fake punt attempt
and a missed field goal yesterday at New Meadowlands Stadium in
East Rutherford, New Jersey, to lose for the first time since
their opening game. The Packers recorded their first shutout in
a road game since 1991.  “Mama said there would be days like this,” Jets running
back  LaDainian Tomlinson , who rushed for 54 yards, told
reporters. “You don’t like to have them, but they’re going to
happen. This is definitely embarrassing.”  Saints Rebound  The defending Super Bowl champion Saints rebounded from a
home loss to Cleveland as Brees completed 20 of 22 passes for
191 yards during the second half against the Steelers.  After the teams managed three field goals over the first
three quarters, Brees threw touchdown passes to  Marques Colston 
and  Lance Moore  to boost the Saints’ record to 5-3. Brees’s 8-
yard scoring pass to Moore came with 2:37 left.  In Foxborough, Massachusetts, Brady threw a 65-yard
touchdown pass to  Brandon Tate  and  BenJarvus Green-Ellis  had two
rushing scores to lead the Patriots past the Vikings.  Favre needed eight stitches to close a gash on his chin
after being hit midway through the fourth quarter by Patriots
defensive lineman  Myron Pryor  on a third-down pass play from the
New England 3-yard line.  Favre, who made his 292nd straight start even though he has
two fractures in his left foot, was replaced by  Tarvaris Jackson . The Vikings pulled within 21-18 with 7:26 left as
Jackson threw a one-yard touchdown pass on the next play and
then a pass to  Percy Harvin  for a two-point conversion.  ‘A Lot of Football Left’  The Patriots then drove 84 yards in 13 plays to take a 28-
18 lead, with Green-Ellis scoring his second touchdown from two
yards out with 1:56 left.  “I expect to bounce back,” Favre said. “Hopefully our
guys will not go south from this. There’s still a lot of
football left but it’s disappointing.”  Mason Crosby  kicked three field goals, including two in the
fourth quarter for the Packers (5-3), who were outgained by the
Jets 360-237 in total offensive yards.  Jets quarterback  Mark Sanchez  was intercepted twice,
completing 16 of 38 passes for 256 yards.  Brad Smith  had a
fumble after taking a direct snap for the Jets and  Nick Folk 
missed a 37-yard field goal in the third quarter.  In the first quarter, the Jets attempted a fake punt on a
4th-and-18 play from their 20-yard line. Officials used instant
replay to rule that punter  Steve Weatherford  was stopped just
short of a first down after a Green Bay challenge, leading to
the Packers’ first field goal.  “Getting those takeaways was a big part of us getting this
game and especially getting the shutout,” Packers linebacker
 A.J. Hawk  told reporters.  London Matchup  The San Francisco 49ers beat the Denver Broncos 24-16 at
Wembley Stadium in the NFL’s fourth regular-season game in
London. Former Heisman Trophy winner  Troy Smith  started for the
first time since 2007 and threw one touchdown pass for the 49ers
and also ran for another score.  Dallas, which lost quarterback  Tony Romo  last week to a
broken collarbone, dropped to 1-6 for the season with a 35-17
home loss to the Jacksonville Jaguars.  Matt Stafford  threw four touchdown passes, including three
to  Calvin Johnson , as the Detroit Lions beat the Washington
Redskins 37-25 for their second win of the season.  The Buffalo Bills remain the NFL’s only winless team after
losing to the Kansas City Chiefs 13-10 when  Ryan Succop  kicked a
35-yard field goal with five seconds left in overtime.  Miami beat Cincinnati 22-14, San Diego outscored Tennessee
33-25, Oakland shut down Seattle 33-3, Tampa Bay beat Arizona
38-35, and St. Louis defeated Carolina 20-10 in other Week 8
games. Indianapolis hosts Houston today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 