-- Navistar's Employees Represented by UAW Approve Four-Year Labor Agreement
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-10-31T16:37:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/navistar-s-employees-represented-by-uaw-approve-four-year-labor-agreement.html
Navistar International Corp. 
employees represented by the United Auto Workers union approved
a four-year contract, the maker of blast-resistant trucks
for the U.S. military said.  The agreement replaces a labor contract that expired
Oct. 1, the Warrenville, Illinois-based company said in a
statement yesterday. The union represents 2,000 of the company’s
workers at plants in Illinois, Ohio, Georgia, Pennsylvania,
Texas and Indiana.  The contract gives the company the ability to change the
type of vehicles that it produces at its plants instead of
having dedicated facilities. It also allows a variable wage
scale for new employees instead of a standard rate for all hires
and shifts some of the company’s health-care costs to employees.  “It will improve the operating structure and flexibility
at our UAW-represented facilities to better compete in today’s
market,” Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Ustian  said in the
statement.  Christine Moroski, a spokeswoman for the UAW, and  Roy Wiley , a spokesman for Navistar, didn’t immediately return calls
seeking specifics on the contract.  The deal was reached earlier this month and ratified by a
majority of  union  members, the company said. Navistar employs
16,000 workers worldwide.  The maker of International-brand trucks rose 2.5 percent to
$48.18 on Oct. 29. The shares have rallied to 25 percent  this
year , trailing the 32 percent advance for automobile and parts
makers in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Trucks accounted for 58 percent of  Navistar sales  last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Engines were 23
percent and parts were 17 percent.  Eighty percent  of sales were
in the U.S., the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 