-- New York Races for Attorney General, Comptroller Are Now Tied, Poll Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-10-31T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/new-york-races-for-attorney-general-comptroller-are-tied-poll-indicates.html
The races for  New York  attorney
general and comptroller are tied before the Nov. 2 election as
Republican candidates have rebounded, a  Siena Research Institute 
poll showed.  Andrew Cuomo , the Democratic candidate for governor, leads
Republican  Carl Paladino  by 25 percentage points. Cuomo, 52, the
state attorney general, was favored by 58 percent of likely
voters compared with 33 percent for Paladino, 64, a Buffalo real
estate developer, according to the survey. In a Siena poll
published Oct. 20, Cuomo led by 37 percentage points.  In the race for comptroller, the state’s fiscal watchdog
and sole trustee of its pension fund, incumbent  Thomas DiNapoli ,
a Democrat, and Republican  Harry Wilson , a Wall Street executive
and member of President  Barack Obama ’s automobile industry task
force, are tied at 44 percent of voters, with 12 percent
undecided. In the earlier October poll, DiNapoli led by 17
points.  “It is clear that momentum is on Wilson’s side,” Siena
pollster  Steven Greenberg  said in a statement. Almost 25 percent
of Cuomo voters support Wilson, Greenberg said.  In the attorney general contest, Democrat  Eric Schneiderman , a state senator from Manhattan and Republican  Dan Donovan , the Staten Island district attorney, are also tied at
44 percent, with 12 percent undecided. Schneiderman led by 7
percentage points in the Oct. 20 survey.  Siena, based in Loudonville, New York, polled 967
registered voters by telephone Oct. 27 to Oct. 30 to identify
603 likely voters. The survey has a margin for error of plus or
minus 4 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  