-- Liverpool Beats Bolton; Newcastle Defeats Sunderland 5-1; Villa Ties 0-0
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2010-10-31T18:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/newcastle-defeats-sunderland-5-1-in-league-villa-birmingham-tie-0-0.html
Liverpool won 1-0 at Bolton today to
climb out of the relegation positions in English soccer’s
Premier League. Newcastle defeated 10-man Sunderland 5-1.  Maxi Rodriguez’s 86th-minute goal at the Reebok Stadium
secured Liverpool’s first away win of the season and lifts the
Reds six places to 12th in the standings. Liverpool is one spot
ahead of Aston Villa, which tied 0-0 against local rival
Birmingham City.  “It’s just nice to be out of that bottom three, we’ve been
in there a while so it’s been difficult to look at the table,”
Liverpool defender  Jamie Carragher  told Sky Sports.  Liverpool, Bolton, Villa, Sunderland and Fulham are on 12
points. Newcastle climbs to seventh on 14 points, while 14th-
place Birmingham has 11 points. Defending champion Chelsea tops
the league with 25 points.  Liverpool scored at Bolton during a period of concerted
pressure late in the game as  Roy Hodgson ’s team looked for back-
to-back wins.  Fernando Torres  set up the goal, backheeling past Gary
Cahill for Rodriguez, who managed to put the ball into the net
off goalkeeper  Jussi Jaaskelainen .  Both teams had created several opportunities, with Torres
wasting a couple of chances for Liverpool. The Spain forward
raced toward goal on eight minutes, but delayed his shot and
then failed to connect cleanly with the ball.  Bolton also had good efforts, with Kevin Davies heading
inches past the post, and Stuart Holden testing Jose Reina with
a long-range shot.  Nolan Treble  Kevin Nolan  got three goals, while Shola Ameobi scored
twice at St. James’ Park as Newcastle ended a seven-match
unbeaten league run by its northeast neighbour Sunderland.  Titus Bramble  was red-carded after 53 minutes for the
visitors, who got a late consolation goal from  Darren Bent .  Nolan gave Newcastle a 26th-minute lead with an overhead
kick and scored again eight minutes later to put the home team
in control. Sunderland’s chances of a comeback were then hit
just before halftime when Ameobi netted from a penalty kick.  Sunderland’s ex-Newcastle defender Bramble was dismissed
early in the second half after bringing down  Andy Carroll  as he
ran at goal. Ameobi and Nolan each scored again to seal the win.  “We’re delighted, we’ve worked so hard this week and it’s
paid off today,” Nolan told Sky Sports.  Bent replied in injury time with his eighth goal of the
season, two-thirds of his team’s total in all competitions.
Asamoah Gyan is the only other player to score for the Black
Cats, excluding own goals.  Chelsea Leads  The scoreless Midlands derby ended a run of six straight
wins by Villa against its local rival, which is still without an
away victory this season.  Chelsea maintained its five-point lead at the top of the
standings following a 2-1 win at Blackburn yesterday. Second-
place Arsenal beat West Ham 1-0, while Manchester United
defeated Tottenham 2-0 to join the Gunners on 20 points.  Elsewhere, Wolverhampton Wanderers beat Manchester City 2-
1, Fulham defeated Wigan 2-0, and Everton won 1-0 against Stoke
City. Blackpool hosts West Bromwich Albion tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 