-- Niger Votes in Constitution Referendum Aimed at Limiting President's Power
-- B y   D j i b r i l   S a i d o u   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-10-31T18:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/niger-votes-in-constitution-referendum-aimed-at-limiting-president-s-power.html
Citizens of Niger voted on a new
constitution that, if passed, will limit presidential powers,
undoing changes made by former President  Mamadou Tandja .  The charter will re-establish a limit of two five-year
presidential terms, which was scrapped by Tandja in August 2009,
and give the prime minister the power to appoint government
members. Polls started opening at 7:30 a.m. local time and
closed as scheduled at about 7 p.m.  “Approving a new constitution is one of the key steps to
untangling the changes brought in by Tandja,” Sabine
Machenheimer, an analyst with London-based IHS Jane’s, said in
an e-mailed note to clients on Oct. 29.  If voters approve the constitution, elections in January
will allow a return to civilian rule in the world’s sixth-
largest uranium producer. A military junta has governed since
toppling Tandja in February following his changes to the
constitution, which were aimed at extending his decade in power.  “We are at a special day,” Djibo Salou, the head of the
junta, said in the capital, Niamey, after voting along with
other members of the military leadership. “I urge all Nigeriens
to vote massively for the new constitution.”  Security personnel patrolled the streets in Niamey.  The new document would ban soldiers from running for
office. Jan. 31 has been set as the date for presidential
elections and April 6 as the date for the swearing in of the new
president.  “We are finalizing the military transition with the
referendum,”  Mahamadou Dandah , the country’s prime minister,
said in an interview. “Citizens are mobilized.”  ‘Regain Democracy’  The proposed constitution would also force the government
to publish figures for the country’s oil and mining revenue.
 Areva SA , the world’s largest supplier of nuclear equipment and
services, has mines in Niger.  Muslim leaders have called for a boycott of the
constitution because it establishes a secular state in a country
where about 99 percent of the population follows Islam.  The country has a population of 15.3 million people and has
a $5.4 billion economy, according to World Bank statistics for
2009. That equates to gross domestic income per capita of $340
compared with an average of $1,096 for the whole of sub-Saharan
Africa.  While there are no opinion polls on whether the
constitution will be adopted, none of Niger’s 56 political
parties has opposed the new referendum. Results will be
announced by Nov. 1 or Nov. 2.  “It is an important moment for our country,” said Kailou
Yusuf, a newspaper vendor in Niamey, in an interview. “I’m
going to vote because this time our country will regain
democracy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Djibril Saidou  in Niamey via Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ,
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 