-- Obama Needs New Change to Believe in After Debacle: Albert Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2010-10-31T15:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/obama-needs-new-change-to-believe-in-after-debacle-albert-hunt.html
No-drama Obama may need some drama,
or at least a shakeup.  The cool, detached, sometimes too insular president will
suffer a political drubbing in tomorrow’s midterm elections. It
could be fatal or a glancing blow to his presidency, depending
on how he responds.  What is necessary, leading Democrats say mostly in private,
are fresh personnel, policies and approaches; a midcourse
correction, not a radical overhaul.  The early signs aren’t encouraging. Obama has tapped a
deputy,  Pete Rouse , to fill in for  Rahm Emanuel , the departing
White House chief of staff; the National Security adviser,
General  James Jones , is being replaced by his no. 2, Tom Donilon; and longtime Obama adviser  Denis McDonough  will fill
Donilon’s slot.  They are very able. Rouse is one of those rare Washington
insiders who practice the late General George Marshall’s dictum
that you can accomplish a great deal if you credit others. He is
a stranger to self-promotion and has served Obama well in the
Senate and White House.  Yet these appointments convey a signal of promoting the
junior varsity after the varsity has been shellacked.  It isn’t clear whether the president will reach out for new
faces to fill the top levels: a corporate executive to address
the complaints that this is an anti-business administration;
someone with impeccable military credentials to assist and
balance Donilon, viewed by Republicans and some in the armed
services as a political operative; and somebody with acute
political antennae outside the Obama stratosphere.  More Approachable  In addition to expanding his inner circle, Obama has to be
more approachable and outreaching on  Capitol Hill  and elsewhere,
say Democratic politicians who want him to succeed.  The president’s problems are far more than public
relations. Yet somehow this White House has to figure out why
it’s done such a poor job in explaining its policies.  When Americans overwhelmingly believe that taxes have gone
up, the economy is shrinking, that the Wall Street bank rescue
won’t be repaid and that the stimulus didn’t create jobs -- all
demonstrably false -- somebody hasn’t been doing something
right. As recently as September, a fatigued White House botched
the issue of tax cuts, due to expire for all Americans at the
end of the year.  ‘They Stole the Message’  Noting his party has controlled Congress and the White
House for two years, former Democratic Senator Paul Kirk of
 Massachusetts  says: “We’ve had the megaphone, and they stole
the message. They’ve incited fear in people, and we’re paying
the price.”  On policies, it isn’t about ideology. The left-wing rap is
flawed: This administration rejected nationalizing banks and a
public option on health care, and downsized automobile
companies. Still, at this stage, presidencies -- whether
Republican or Democratic, and even in the absence of an election
debacle -- move to find more common ground with the other side.
The first two years is about an agenda. That’s when Republican
administrations did tax cuts and military buildups.  With Republicans likely to win a majority in the House and
veto power in the Senate, the White House has to look for accord
in areas like education, trade and minor energy matters. Any
significant fiscal deal is probably out of reach.  Bomb Throwers  Even small accomplishments depend on whether those
Republicans who are predisposed to moderately conservative
solutions will act accordingly or be intimidated by the give-no-
ground wing of the party. Watch Republican Senators like  Richard Lugar  of  Indiana , Lamar Alexander of  Tennessee ,  Scott Brown  of
Massachusetts,  Susan Collins  and  Olympia Snowe  of  Maine  and the
likely newcomer Rob Portman of  Ohio . And will the common-sense
conservative speaker of the House, Representative  John Boehner 
of Ohio, be able to tame his bomb throwers?  As Obama navigates these unfamiliar waters, he’ll need to
lean on Joseph Biden. Despite occasional foot-in-the-mouth
problems, the vice president has an intimate knowledge of the
way Washington works and he commands respect, even affection,
from more than a few Republicans.  There’s another invaluable potential ally: former President
 Bill Clinton , with whom Obama has a distant relationship. During
the 2008 campaign, Emanuel, then an Illinois congressman,
advised Obama to call Clinton periodically, even if he put the
phone in the sock drawer. It’s time to call, and stay on the
line.  Worse Economy  There are differences between what Obama faces today and
what Clinton confronted when Democrats lost their congressional
majority 16 years ago -- the economy is far worse now, and
Boehner may not be a convenient foil.  Still, no one understands the office, the conditions and
the politics better than the 42nd president, who, in another
remarkable display of resilience, has bounced back from the  2008 
doldrums to become the most popular politician in America.  Clinton could tell Obama that a favorite storyline these
days -- that he was saved from the 1994 election disaster by
bringing in the consultant Dick Morris and making nice with
Republicans -- is largely fiction.  Morris, who was forced to resign two years later after his
dalliance with a prostitute came to light, probably did Clinton
more harm than good with his recommendations to embrace bite-
sized issues such as school uniforms and avoid confrontation
with Republicans.  “Dick was an enormously destructive force,” says  Paul Begala , a Clinton confidant. The two most important events in
the Clinton revival were his masterful handling of the  Oklahoma
City  bombing tragedy and his success in staring down
Republicans, who shut down the government for more than three
weeks.  Clinton’s Instincts  “This was when President Clinton trusted his own
instincts,” Begala says.  Clinton selectively cut deals with congressional
Republicans, going along with a capital-gains tax cut and
forging an accord on overhauling welfare. The stellar economic
performance and balanced budget at the end of his presidency had
little to do with those deals.  Some Republicans now wish Obama were more like Clinton and
those “Kumbaya” moments could be replicated. A reminder: Four
years after that 1994 election, 95 percent of House Republicans
voted to impeach Clinton, basically for lying about sex.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 