-- Obama, Biden Make Final Pitch to Help Save Democrats in Midterm Election
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k ,   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-10-31T22:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/obama-biden-make-final-pitch-to-help-save-democrats-in-midterm-election.html
President  Barack Obama  and Vice
President  Joe Biden  made a final plea to voters to help
Democrats keep control of Congress as Republicans predicted a
wave election that will sweep many incumbents from office.  Their joint appearance in Cleveland was the last stop on a
four-state swing for Obama as he tried to stem a potential loss
of his party’s majority control.  “In just two days, you’ve got the chance to once again
say, ‘Yes we can,’” Obama, 49, said inside an arena at
Cleveland State University that was about two-thirds full.
“There is no doubt that this is a difficult election and that’s
because we’ve gone through an incredibly difficult time as a
nation.”  The Democratic National Committee  is using Obama to make
its closing argument in the final days of the campaign, in a new
ad urging voters to cast their ballots on Nov 2.  “We cannot sit this one out,” Obama tells a crowd of
supporters in the ad, which will run nationally on MSNBC and BET
until the election. In footage from campaign rallies held over
the last several months, Obama warns voters that if Republicans
win the elections, the party will return the country to the
economic policies that caused the recession.  The DNC has transferred $2.67 million to state parties for
the final election push. States receiving the last minute influx
of funds include Illinois, Ohio, Nevada, Pennsylvania, and
Florida. Overall the party has raised more than $115 million for
state parties and candidates.  Building a Firewall  Obama’s weekend schedule took him to states where Democrats
are trying to build a firewall for their continued control of
the U.S. Senate. The party’s grasp on the U.S. House is tenuous,
according to analyst rankings and polls.  Republican dominance even in one chamber likely would set
back Obama’s agenda, while the loss of Democratic governorships
could add extra hurdles to any 2012 re-election bid because of
the help they can provide in swing states such as Ohio.  The Obama-Biden rally was meant to benefit Ohio Democratic
Governor  Ted Strickland , who is in a close race with Republican
 challenger   John Kasich , a former congressman.  “We’re going to make sure the bankrupted policies of the
Republican Party don’t knock us down again,” Biden said at the
rally. “We’re starting to get out of this God-awful mess.”  In Ohio’s Senate race, polls show Republican  Rob Portman 
leading Democrat  Lee Fisher  to fill the seat left vacant by the
retirement of Republican  George Voinovich .  Political Capital  “President Obama has enormous political capital invested
in Ohio,” Voinovich told reporters on a conference call, adding
that Obama’s repeated Ohio visits “have been more about his
concern for his future election in 2012 than the future of
Ohio.”  Cleveland is one of four finalists to host the 2012
Democratic National Convention, where Obama will likely seek re-
nomination for a second term.  Democratic officials on the Sunday talk shows pointed out
that the election is not over. “Democrats are much more fired
up,” said Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell  on CBS’s “Face the
Nation.”  “It’s not a lost cause,” Representative  Chris Van Hollen ,
head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said on
the “Fox News Sunday” program. “All these Washington pundits
are going to be surprised.”  Republican Polling Lead  Recent polls contradict such optimism. According to a
CNN/Opinion Research Corporation poll conducted October 27 to
30, Republicans are leading Democrats 52 percent to 42 percent
among likely voters. A Pew Research Center poll conducted during
the same period gives Republicans a 6 percentage-point
advantage.  The ratings suggest the Republican Party will win enough of
the popular vote to gain control of the House, according to Pew.
The margin of error was plus or minus 3 percentage points for
CNN and between 3 to 5 percentage points for Pew.  Much of the Republican momentum is driven by independent
voters, who backed Democrats by a 42 percent to 35 percent
margin in the 2006 election. Today they favor the Republicans 45
percent to 32 percent.  Haley Barbour , chairman of the  Republican Governors
Association , said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program that if
Republicans win the House it will be a repudiation of Obama’s
policies. Barbour, governor of Mississippi, said the election is
a referendum on Obama health care and economic policies that
represent the “biggest lurch to the left in American political
history.”  Political Earthquake  “It’s going to be a political earthquake and the message
will have been sent to the left that they blew it,”  Sarah Palin , former Alaska governor and Republican vice presidential
nominee, said on “Fox News Sunday.”  Democratic National Committee  Chairman  Tim Kaine  said
winning the House would force Republicans to vote for unpopular
spending cuts and tax increases in order to uphold a pledge to
voters to trim the budget deficit by $100 billion next year.  “The Republicans will be forced to govern,” Kaine said on
the NBC program. Kaine said Republicans, including Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , have a “political and partisan
agenda” of making Obama a one-term president.  Obama went to the center of his political base last night
for a rally a few blocks from his home on Chicago’s South Side.
That stop was meant to motivate Democratic voters and boost the
man trying to win the president’s old U.S. Senate seat.  Defensive Position  That Obama was forced to spend part of the final campaign
weekend in Illinois, where all of the statewide elected
officials are Democrats, illustrated the defensive position he
and his party have been forced into by a political environment
that could reshape control of Washington.  Obama, who taught at the  University of Chicago ’s law
school, has placed his political prestige on the line in
Illinois. He has made three appearances for  Alexi Giannoulias ,
the Democratic state treasurer seeking the Illinois Senate seat.
That rivals his effort for Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
who is trailing in the most recent Nevada polls against
Republican  Sharron Angle .  “I need you to knock on some doors,” Obama told the
Chicago crowd. “I need you to talk to your neighbors. I need
you to get out and vote.”  Illinois Race  Mark Kirk , the Republican nominee, and Giannoulias have
spent much of their campaign debating who is least trustworthy.
Giannoulias has dealt with fallout from the April failure of his
family’s Broadway Bank, while Kirk was forced to apologize for
exaggerating his biography.  Kirk, a five-term congressman from Chicago’s northern
suburbs, is scheduled to appear today in Chicago with Republican
Senator  Scott Brown  of Massachusetts. Brown won a January
special election in a state that, like Illinois, historically
leans Democratic.  Republicans are projected to gain a net of least 55 U.S.
House seats by the  Rothenberg Political Report , a nonpartisan
publication based in Washington. Republicans need a 39-seat gain
to take control of the chamber.  Rothenberg and other  analysts  say Democrats have a better
chance of keeping control of the U.S. Senate, where Republicans
would need to gain 10 seats to take control.  ‘A Great Shot’  David Axelrod , a senior adviser to Obama, said Democrats
have “a great shot” to hold onto the House. “We’re not
writing anything off,” he said.  The midterm campaign has been shaped by a national
 unemployment rate  at or above 9.5 percent for the last 14
months, criticism of the White House’s domestic agenda and an
anti-Washington sentiment reflected in the Tea Party movement.  In an interview, Axelrod said Obama will spend the final
phase of the campaign “calling into stations and targeted
media” in local markets with close races.  “It’s better at this point to have him in one place where
we can reach a lot of venues at once and that’s through media,”
he said.  Yesterday Obama made a Connecticut stop to support
Democratic Senate candidate  Richard Blumenthal , who is leading
in the polls in his contest with Republican nominee  Linda McMahon , a Tea Party favorite and former chief executive officer
of  World Wrestling Entertainment Inc.  He also stopped in
Philadelphia to boost Representative  Joe Sestak , a Democrat in a
close Senate race with former Representative  Pat Toomey , a
Republican.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Cleveland at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  