-- Obama, Biden Make Final Election Pitch for Democrats
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k ,   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-11-01T19:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/obama-biden-make-final-pitch-to-help-save-democrats-in-election.html
President  Barack Obama  made his final
campaign-trail and radio pitches to voters as he asked for
support in helping his party retain control of Congress, while
Republicans predicted an historic election sweeping incumbents
from office.  Obama appeared yesterday with Vice President  Joe Biden  in
Cleveland in what was his last stop on a four-state swing to try
to stem a potential loss of his party’s majority control in
tomorrow’s elections. The president continued political efforts
from the White House today, giving interviews to syndicated and
local radio program hosts. First lady  Michelle Obama  campaigned
for Senator  Harry Reid  in Nevada.  “You’ve got the chance to once again say, ‘Yes we can,’”
Obama, 49, said yesterday inside an arena at Cleveland State
University. “There is no doubt that this is a difficult
election and that’s because we’ve gone through an incredibly
difficult time as a nation.”  The midterm campaign has been shaped by a national
 unemployment rate  at or above 9.5 percent for the last 14
months, criticism of the White House’s domestic agenda and an
anti-Washington sentiment reflected in the Tea Party movement.  Obama’s weekend schedule took him to states where Democrats
are trying to build a firewall to maintain control of the U.S.
Senate. The party is likely to lose its grip on the U.S. House,
according to independent analyst rankings and polls.  Setback for Agenda  Republican dominance even in one chamber likely would set
back Obama’s agenda, while the loss of Democratic governorships
could add extra hurdles to any 2012 re-election bid because of
the help they can provide in swing states such as Ohio.  The Obama-Biden rally was meant to benefit Ohio Democratic
Governor  Ted Strickland , who is in a close race with Republican
 challenger   John Kasich , a former congressman.  “We’re going to make sure the bankrupted policies of the
Republican Party don’t knock us down again,” Biden said at the
rally. “We’re starting to get out of this God-awful mess.”  In Ohio’s Senate race, polls show Republican  Rob Portman 
leading Democrat  Lee Fisher  to fill the seat left vacant by the
retirement of Republican  George Voinovich .  “President Obama has enormous political capital invested
in Ohio,” Voinovich told reporters on a conference call, adding
that Obama’s repeated Ohio visits “have been more about his
concern for his future election in 2012 than the future of
Ohio.”  The  Democratic National Committee  is using the president to
make the party’s closing argument through a new ad.  National Advertising  “We cannot sit this one out,” Obama tells a crowd of
supporters in the ad, which will run nationally on cable
channels MSNBC and BET until the election. In footage from
rallies held over the last several months, Obama warns voters
that if Republicans win the elections, the party will return to
the economic policies that caused the recession.  The DNC has transferred $2.67 million to state parties for
the final election push. States receiving the last minute influx
of funds include Illinois, Ohio, Nevada, Pennsylvania and
Florida.  In television appearances, Democratic officials said they
remained determined to prove analysts wrong.  “It’s not a lost cause,” Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen , head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee, said on the “Fox News Sunday” program. “All these
Washington pundits are going to be surprised.”  Republicans Lead in Polls  Polls contradict such optimism. According to a CNN/Opinion
Research Corporation poll conducted October 27-30, Republicans
are leading Democrats 52 percent to 42 percent among likely
voters. A Pew Research Center poll conducted during the same
period gives Republicans a six percentage point advantage.  The ratings suggest the Republican Party will win enough of
the popular vote to gain control of the House, according to Pew.
The margin of error was plus or minus three percentage points
for the CNN survey and three to five percentage points for Pew.  Much of the Republican momentum is driven by independent
voters, who backed Democrats by a 42 percent to 35 percent
margin in the 2006 election. Today they favor the Republicans 45
percent to 32 percent, according to Pew.  Republicans are projected to gain a net of least 55 U.S.
House seats by the  Rothenberg Political Report , a nonpartisan
publication based in Washington. Republicans need a 39-seat gain
to take control of the chamber.  Rothenberg and other  analysts  say Democrats have a better
chance of keeping control of the U.S. Senate, where Republicans
would need to gain 10 seats to take control.  Campaign’s Final Phase  David Axelrod , a senior adviser to Obama, said in an
interview that Obama would spend the final phase of the campaign
“calling into stations and targeted media” in local markets
with close races.  “It’s better at this point to have him in one place where
we can reach a lot of venues at once and that’s through media,”
he said.  Obama this afternoon taped an interview for the syndicated
radio programs of  Ryan Seacrest , Russ Parr and  Steve Harvey  that
are set for broadcast tomorrow. He was sitting for a live
interview with broadcaster Michael Baisden, and was interviewed
on local stations this morning, including those in Milwaukee,
Cincinnati and Philadelphia.  ‘Lurch to the Left’  Haley Barbour , chairman of the  Republican Governors
Association , said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program that if
Republicans win the House it will be a repudiation of Obama’s
policies. Barbour, governor of Mississippi, said the election is
a referendum on Obama’s health care and economic policies that
represent the “biggest lurch to the left” in American history.  “It’s going to be a political earthquake and the message
will have been sent to the left that they blew it,”  Sarah Palin , former Alaska governor and Republican vice presidential
nominee, said on “Fox News Sunday.”  Democratic National Committee  Chairman  Tim Kaine  said
winning the House would force Republicans to vote for unpopular
spending cuts and tax increases in order to uphold a pledge to
voters to trim the budget deficit by $100 billion next year.  “The Republicans will be forced to govern,” Kaine said on
the NBC program. Kaine said Republicans, including Senate
Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , have a “political and partisan
agenda” of making Obama a one-term president.  Political Prestige  One of Obama’s weekend stops was in Chicago as he sought to
boost the Democrat trying to win his old U.S. Senate seat.  Obama has placed his political prestige on the line in
Illinois. He has made three appearances for  Alexi Giannoulias ,
the Democratic state treasurer seeking the Illinois Senate seat.
That rivals his effort for Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
who is trailing in the most recent Nevada polls against
Republican  Sharron Angle .  Mark Kirk , a five-term Republican congressman, and
Giannoulias have spent much of their campaign debating who is
least trustworthy. Giannoulias has dealt with fallout from the
April failure of his family’s Broadway Bank, while Kirk was
forced to apologize for exaggerating his biography.  Obama’s weekend tour also included a Connecticut stop to
support Democratic Senate candidate  Richard Blumenthal , who is
leading in the polls in his contest with Republican nominee
 Linda McMahon , a Tea Party favorite and former chief executive
officer of  World Wrestling Entertainment Inc.  He also appeared
in Philadelphia with Representative  Joe Sestak , a Democrat in a
close Senate race with former Representative  Pat Toomey , a
Republican.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Cleveland at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  