-- Old Normal S&P 500 Rally Shows Birinyi Beating Pimco New Normal
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-11-01T20:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/old-normal-u-s-stock-rally-shows-birinyi-beating-pimco-new-normal-market.html
The rally that added about $2
trillion to U.S. equity values since July is telling  Laszlo Birinyi  and  Kenneth Fisher  that the new normal era of slower
economic growth and lower stock returns has yet to arrive.  Mining shares led by  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. ,
automakers and retailers whose earnings are most tied to the
economy have paced the 16 percent advance in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index since July 2, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The gauge surged 13 percent in September and October, the
biggest rally for the two months since 1998. The U.S. economy
grew at a 2 percent annual pace in the third quarter, the
government said Oct. 29.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which oversees the
world’s biggest bond mutual fund, said in May 2009 that rising
government deficits and regulation would hold gains in equities
and bonds below historical averages.  Mohamed El-Erian , Pimco’s
co-chief investment officer, said last week that his projection
has a 55 percent chance of coming true.  “Of the leading economic indicators, one of the most
important is the stock market,” said Birinyi, whose Westport,
Connecticut-based Birinyi Associates Inc. advised clients to buy
stocks when the S&P 500 began rising from a 12-year low in March
2009. “The market’s saying something, and it’s saying the
economy is going to be surprising on the upside.”  Growth Proxy  Birinyi recommended clients buy Freeport-McMoRan, the
largest publicly traded copper producer, and  Diamond Offshore
Drilling Inc. , the biggest U.S. deepwater driller, as part of
his model growth-stock portfolio. The 10 companies in his basket
for investors seeking the fastest profit increases averaged
returns of 8.3 percent in the past month and have gained 17
percent for all of 2010, according to an Oct. 27 statement from
Birinyi Associates, which oversees about $200 million.  Freeport-McMoRan, which surged 64 percent since July 2, is
an indicator of economic expansion, according to Birinyi. The
company’s third-quarter earnings topped analysts’ estimates on
Oct. 21, the  ninth  straight quarter of better-than-projected
profit. Houston-based Diamond Offshore has  gained  17 percent
from its low on June 8.  Bill Gross , the co-chief investment officer of Pimco whose
 Total Return Fund  makes up 20 percent of the firm’s $1.24
trillion under management and has climbed 11 percent in 2010,
wrote on May 26 that government budget deficits would hold down
growth as lending capital disappears.  ‘Rather Tortuous’  “Investors must respect this rather tortuous journey in
the months and years ahead for what it is: A deleveraging
process based upon too much debt and too little growth to
service it,” according to a letter on the company’s website.  El-Erian said last week that the firm hasn’t ruled out
different outcomes.  “Like all our analytical work, the new normal scenario is
subject to continuous refinement to incorporate new information
and analysis,” El-Erian, who is Pimco’s chief executive
officer. “Upside risk scenarios speak to the possibility of a
faster coming on stream of consumer demand in emerging economies
and the return of full policy effectiveness in the U.S.”  The S&P 500 climbed 0.1 percent to 1,184.38 at 4 p.m. in
New York. The gauge was little changed  last week , ending at
1,183.26, as optimism about  earnings  was tempered by concern the
Federal Reserve won’t do enough to stimulate the economy. The
Commerce Department’s gross domestic product report showed the
core personal consumption expenditures  price index , which strips
out food and energy costs, climbed at a 0.8 percent pace, down
from 1 percent the prior quarter.  Starting Points  The benchmark gauge for American equity is up 6.2 percent
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. U.S. government
bonds returned 8.3 percent this year through Oct. 29, including
reinvested interest, while investment-grade corporate bonds rose
12 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  An investor who bought the S&P 500 at the market bottom in
 March 2009  has an annualized gain of 43 percent, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Purchasing when the index reached its record
high in October 2007 means an annualized loss of 6.6 percent.
U.S. equities have returned 6.2 percent a year since 1900 before
dividends, according to inflation-adjusted data compiled by the
London Business School and Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.  Gluskin Sheff & Associates Inc.’s  David Rosenberg  says the
rally since July isn’t sustainable. The S&P 500 is near the high
end of its trading range, and neither the Federal Reserve’s
second round of Treasury purchases nor tomorrow’s election will
save equities, he said.  Policy Solutions  The “speculative rally” is based on delusions the Fed
will succeed, Rosenberg, who was ranked the No. 2 economist by
Institutional Investor magazine in 2008, wrote in an e-mail to
Bloomberg News. It’s an “‘Ugly Duckling’ economy which needs
really effective policy solutions.”  The U.S. unemployment rate of 9.6 percent is 3.9 percentage
points above its average since 1948, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  At the same time, equities have continued to rally. The
relative performance of transportation companies is another
signal of sustainable economic growth, according to ING
Investment Management’s  Paul Zemsky , whose firm oversees $550
billion worldwide. The Dow Jones Transportation Average has
risen 16 percent this year, compared with a 6.7 percent gain in
the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  UPS, FedEx  United Parcel Service Inc. in Atlanta raised its annual
profit estimate on Oct. 21 after posting an 80 percent third-
quarter income gain on higher international shipments. The
world’s largest package-delivery company is up 19 percent since
July 2. Memphis, Tennessee-based FedEx Corp., the biggest cargo
airline, has climbed 21 percent.  “You need those stocks to do well for an economic recovery
to be durable,” because truckers, railroads and airlines
usually gain business before the economy accelerates, said New
York-based Zemsky, the head of asset allocation for ING.
“People who are counting the U.S. economy down and out are
making a mistake.”  The S&P 500 has risen 13 percent since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated during an Aug. 27 speech in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming, that he may be willing to pump more money into the
economy.  “The stock market has always been and continues to be one
of the better leading economic indicators,” said Fisher, whose
Woodside, California-based Fisher Investments Inc. oversees more
than $38 billion. “To knock the market down, you’d have to have
a new big, bad thing. Could it happen? Yes, it could. Is it
likely? I don’t think so.”  Modest Growth  The Fed bought about $1.73 trillion in government debt and
mortgage securities in a 2009 program to keep interest rates
near record lows, support securities prices and bolster the
housing market. Since Aug. 17, it purchased another $62 billion
of Treasuries, and has been weighing more monetary injections as
its Beige Book business survey released Oct. 20 reported that
the economy grew at a “modest pace” in September.  Elections tomorrow may divide power in Congress, helping
the market, Fisher said. There’s a 94 percent  chance  Republicans
will take control of the House of Representatives, helping them
block President  Barack Obama ’s policies, according to bets on
Intrade, a Dublin-based online prediction market.  “The stock market is just showing that maybe it’s not as
bad as what a lot of people think,” said  Liz Ann Sonders , the
New York-based chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab
Corp., which has $1.5 trillion in client assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 