-- Pacific Basin Expects `High Pace' Bulk-Shipping Growth on China
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-11-01T11:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/pacific-basin-expects-high-pace-bulk-shipping-growth-on-chinese-demand.html
Pacific Basin Shipping Ltd., Hong
Kong’s largest operator of dry-bulk vessels, said the market
will continue expanding at a “relatively high pace” as growth
in China and the rest of Asia stokes demand for steel.  Consumption per capita of the metal has increased about 8
percent a year for at least seven years in Asia and that trend
is likely to continue, Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Nyborg  said
in an interview in Hong Kong on Oct. 29.  “The three main demand drivers are coming at the same time
-- China, India, Asia,” Nyborg said. “We would expect the dry-
bulk market to continue to grow in the coming years at a
relatively high pace.”  The company has added 17 dry-bulk ships since December and
it may expand its fleet further because of the demand growth,
Nyborg said. China’s seaborne imports of commodities including
iron ore, a key steelmaking ingredient, rose 40 percent last
year, he said, as rising wages spurred spending in the world’s
most-populous nation.  “The company has a very good platform and is very well-
positioned with a lot of investment opportunities in China,”
said  Teddy Tsai , deputy head of research in Asia at DnB NOR ASA
in Singapore. “There’s so much more than they can take
advantage of.”  China Demand  China now accounts for about 25 percent of Pacific Basin’s
cargos, compared with about 8 percent in 2006, Nyborg said. The
shipping line operates 130 dry-bulk vessels, either owned or on
long-term charters. Nyborg declined to comment on how many more
the company may add.  The company rose 3.7 percent, the most in more than two
weeks, to HK$5.85 at the close of trading in Hong Kong. It has
climbed 3.9 percent this year compared with an 8.1 percent gain
for the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Pacific Basin last week forecast a seasonal upswing from
this month through early 2011 as Chinese steelmakers rebuild
materials inventories. The country accounts for more than 40
percent of global steel production, according to the World Steel
Association.  China’s iron-ore imports rose 18 percent in September from
a month earlier. The  Baltic Dry Index , a measure of rates for
carrying iron ore, coal and other commodities, fell 1.1 percent
to 2,678 on Oct. 29 in London trading. It’s gained 58 percent
from this year’s low of 1,700.  Pacific Basin has also expanded its fleet by adding “roll
on, roll off” vessels, used to carry vehicles. The company
received its second RoRo ship last month, which will be used on
a ferry service between Mexico and the U.S. Pacific Basin will
invest as much as $4 million in the operator.  The development of RoRo shipping in Asia has been “slow
moving” so far, Nyborg said. Possible moves to allow services
between China and Taiwan could help stoke interest, he said.  “The distances are ideal for short-sea RoRo operations,”
he said. That would be a “major game-changer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  