-- Germany Bans Yemen Flights, U.K. Curbs Freight After Plot
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 2010-11-02T07:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/package-bombs-linked-to-christmas-saudi-plots-al-qaeda-bombmaker-sought.html
Germany and the U.K. restricted
package deliveries from Yemen as the U.S. tried to strengthen
the Middle East country’s screening system after bombs were
taken aboard flights last week.  Germany began barring Yemenia Airways flights from landing
at its airports this weekend, Transport Ministry spokesman  Ingo Strater  said yesterday.  In London, Home Secretary  Theresa May  said the U.K. will
prohibit unaccompanied air freight from both Yemen and Somalia
and stop some printer cartridges from going on flights.  “The threat from the Arabian Peninsula and from Yemen in
particular has grown,” UK Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in
a statement in Parliament yesterday. “It is clear that we must
take every possible step to work with our partners in the Arab
world to cut out the terrorist cancer that lurks in the Arabian
Peninsula.”  Government officials announced the precautions as U.S.,
Yemeni and European investigators worked to uncover more details
of a terrorist plot that revolved around two bombs concealed in
printer cartridges found in packages that originated in Yemen.
U.S. authorities have said they suspect a master bomb-maker from
al-Qaeda made the explosives.  In a statement released to the state-run Saba news agency,
an unnamed Yemeni official criticized the German ban on flights
as an “exaggerated” response that hurts the country’s anti-
terrorism efforts.  Explosive Devices  The packages with the bombs were found last week in the
U.K. and Dubai, bound for synagogues in Chicago, triggering an
examination of three  United Parcel Service Inc . planes Oct. 29
and confiscation of a  FedEx Corp . parcel. Both companies halted
services from Yemen.  The attempted cargo bombings seem to be the work of al-
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the Yemeni branch of the
international terrorist organization that took credit for the
Sept. 11, 2001, airplane hijackings in the U.S.,  John Brennan ,
President  Barack Obama ’s top counterterrorism adviser, said on
Oct. 31.  Qatar Airways said on Oct. 31 that it carried the bomb
discovered in Dubai on two different flights. Chief Executive
Officer Akbar Al Baker today told reporters in Hanoi that
another airline may have carried the package, citing a shipment
document from FedEx.  Qatar Flight?  “There’s a possibility that this package actually wasn’t
carried by Qatar Airways,” he said. The original information
was “immature and not properly researched,” he said.  U.S. and U.K. officials have said they suspect the bombs
were designed to explode on the airplanes.  The authorities avoided a human and economic disaster, said
Representative  Jane Harman , chairwoman of the U.S. House
subcommittee on homeland security and intelligence.  “If we had one or two Lockerbie-style explosions, it would
certainly have chilled some air travel for a period,” Harman, a
California Democrat, said in an interview.  The 1988 detonation of a bomb aboard Pan Am Flight 103 over
Lockerbie, Scotland, killed 270 people.  The U.S. Transportation Security Administration has sent
“a team of experts” to Sana’a to help bolster the country’s
package-screening operation,  John Pistole , the agency’s
administrator, said on CBS’s “Early Show” yesterday.  Yemen Cargo Halt  Pistole also extended for another week a temporary halt on
all cargo coming out of Yemen to the U.S., Homeland Security
Secretary  Janet Napolitano  told MSNBC yesterday.  Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat who
was co-author of a law requiring the screening of all cargo on
passenger planes, said he’ll introduce a similar measure for all
packages on cargo planes.  In Asia, South Korea has tightened security checks on cargo
originating from Yemen and other countries considered to be
dangerous, said Sohn Moon Gap, a customs official. Japan told
airlines to follow U.S. regulations and block any U.S.-bound
freight from Yemen, said Mitsugu Sato, an official in the Civil
Aviation Bureau at the nation’s transport ministry.  Hong Kong’s Customs and Excise Department and the Singapore
Police Force didn’t immediately respond to questions from
Bloomberg News.  Intelligence Update  The U.K.’s Cameron held a meeting of his government’s
emergency planning committee, Cobra, to focus on Yemen, aviation
security and the latest intelligence update.  German Interior Minister  Thomas de Maiziere  canceled a trip
to Israel and instead traveled yesterday to the Cologne/Bonn
airport, through which one of the bombs transited, to discuss
security issues.  Authorities are focusing on Ibrahim Hassan al-Asiri, the
al-Qaeda bomb-maker behind plots to blow up a Northwest Airlines
flight on Christmas Day and to kill the prince spearheading
Saudi Arabia’s antiterrorism effort, said a U.S. official, who
asked not to be named because the investigation isn’t complete.  The bombs could have caused considerable damage, a German
government official said yesterday on the condition that he not
be identified. One package contained 400 grams of PETN, the same
type of explosive used to target the Northwest Airlines flight,
while the other contained 300 grams, the official said.  Detonate by Mobile Phone  One of the two intercepted packages was set to be detonated
by a mobile phone and the other by a timer, said a U.S. official
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the investigation is
continuing.  The Bloomberg Asia Pacific Airlines Index  dropped 1.7
percent today. The  Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index  fell 0.7
percent yesterday.  Investigators have to presume other devices may still be
out there, Brennan told NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Oct. 31.  The tip about the bombs on the two cargo planes came from
Jabr al-Faifi, a former al-Qaeda member, the BBC reported
yesterday, citing U.K. officials.  Yemeni sources told the al-Masdar news website yesterday
that they doubted al-Faifi was the tipster because he had turned
himself in two weeks ago and wasn’t in a position to know the
specifics of the bomb plot.  Al-Faifi was released from the U.S. detention center at
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and transferred to Saudi Arabia in 2006,
said Mark Ballesteros, a Defense Department spokesman.  Yemeni security forces on Oct. 31 released a woman, Hanan
al-Samawi, who was arrested with her mother on suspicion of
attempting to send two parcel bombs.  Woman Released  Hundreds of students rallied at Sana’a University yesterday
to celebrate the return of their schoolmate.  “I am innocent and there is no evidence that proves my
conviction,” al-Samawi said in an interview.  Fourteen al-Qaeda militants surrendered in Yemen’s southern
province of Abyan, the country’s Defense Ministry said yesterday
on its website. The ministry didn’t say whether those who
surrendered were linked to the parcel bombs plot.  Al-Qaeda’s organization in Yemen has stepped up violence
since June, killing dozens of security personnel in a series of
raids in southern cities. The impoverished Arabian Peninsula
nation is also battling separatists in the north.  Representative  Peter King  of New York, ranking Republican
on the House Homeland Security Committee and a frequent
administration critic, praised U.S. officials.  “They did what needed to be done with the actionable
intelligence they received and also shared information with our
allies and with local law enforcement,” he said in a statement.  Harman said just as important as good intelligence is
support for the Yemeni government’s efforts to get more
international financial aid.  In August, the International Monetary Fund approved a
three-year, $370 million loan for Yemen aimed at cutting the
deficit and reducing poverty.  Money “could help a lot in reducing the number of Yemenis
and foreigners who are enticed there for terror training and to
pick up these bombs,” Harman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
 Mohammed Hatem Hasan Ali  in Sana’a at 
 mhasanali@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 