-- Credit Growth in South Africa Accelerates After Reserve Bank Cuts Key Rate
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-10-31T17:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/president-jacob-zuma-fires-hogan-nyanda-from-south-africa-s-cabinet.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
announced a reshuffle of the Cabinet he appointed 17 month ago,
firing eight ministers including  Barbara Hogan  who ran public
enterprises and  Siphiwe Nyanda  in charge of communications.  Hogan, whose ministry is responsible for state power
company Eskom Holdings Ltd. and transport company Transnet Ltd.,
will be replaced by Malusi Gigaba, currently deputy minister of
home affairs. Roy Padayachee, the deputy minister of public
service and administration, will take over Nyanda’s post, Zuma
told reporters in Pretoria today.  Zuma is facing increased pressure from labor union allies
to speed up economic growth and create more jobs for the one in
four people without work. Nyanda was cleared of corruption
allegations by the country’s Public Protector in August.  “Nyanda’s move is quite understandable,”  Lawrence Schlemmer  a political analyst and director of research company
MarkData, said in a phone interview from Cape Town. “The
management of his portfolio has been very controversial. Hogan’s
move is a little unfair. It is a great pity that she wasn’t
given more time in Cabinet.”  Africa’s biggest  economy  shed 870,000 jobs last year
following the first recession in 17 years. The government said
Oct. 26 it plans to weaken the currency, drive down interest
rates and rein in spending under a new growth plan that aims to
create 5 million jobs in the next decade.  ‘Faster Pace’  “Government has to work at a faster pace to change the
lives of the poor,” Zuma said. “We have taken a long and hard
look at some of the departments with a view to strengthening
some ministries.”  Zuma also replaced Labor Minister  Membathisi Mdladlana  with
Mildred Oliphant and appointed Edwa Molewa minister of water and
environmental affairs in place of Buyelwa Sonjica. He also
replaced his ministers of social development, arts and culture,
women’s affairs, public works and sport.  “This is a serious, serious Cabinet reshuffle,” said  Adam Habib , a political analyst at the University of Johannesburg.
“It sends an important message to the public that yes, we are
worried about service delivery and are acting against
corruption. I don’t see this as changing the political alliances
within the Cabinet.”  Zuma also announced the appointment of 17 deputy ministers,
including  Enoch Godongwana , currently the deputy minister of
public enterprises, as deputy minister of economic development.
Barbara Thompson was named deputy energy minister, while Godfrey
Oliphant was named deputy mines minister.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 