-- Putin Losing His Borrowing Cost Advantage as Recovery Slows: Russia Credit
-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y   a n d   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2010-11-01T11:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/putin-losing-borrowing-cost-advantage-as-recovery-slows-russia-credit.html
Russia is losing its borrowing cost
advantage over most developing nations as the economy recovers
slower than the government predicted and a 57 percent increase
in bond sales overwhelms demand.  The average yield on Russia’s dollar bonds was 30 basis
points short of the average for the 22 nations included in
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index, the  smallest discount  since
September 2009. The gap has shrunk from 47 basis points at the
start of October and 105 basis points, or 1.05 percentage
points, in February.  Russian bonds due in 2020 declined 12 of the past 13 days,
the longest losing streak since their sale in April, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin 
said on Oct. 20 the economy may expand less than the
government’s 4 percent target and Citigroup Inc. cut its 2010
economic forecast for the country to 4.1 percent from 5 percent
on Oct. 27. Russian yields are 35 basis points higher than in
Brazil, which the International Monetary Fund  forecasts  will
expand 7.5 percent this year, JPMorgan indexes show.  “Russian debt is underperforming because economic growth
there has been very disappointing this year, and it looks set to
continue that way for several months to come,” said Gyula Toth,
an emerging-markets strategist at UniCredit SpA in Vienna.  Russia’s Eurobonds climbed 1.1 percent in October, less
than the 1.6 percent gain for Brazil, 2.9 percent for Turkey and
1.8 percent for JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Index of foreign-currency debt
from the biggest emerging-market sovereign borrowers. Russia
lagged behind in part because of an “oversupply” of corporate
bond sales, according to  Kieran Curtis , who helps manage $2
billion of emerging-market debt at Aviva Investors in London,
the fund management arm of the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer.  Sberbank, MTS  Russia sold its first dollar bonds since the 1998 default
in April, raising $5.5 billion. Since then, companies led by OAO
Sberbank, the country’s biggest lender, and OAO Mobile
TeleSystems, the biggest mobile phone company, have raised $14.4
billion of international debt, a jump from $9.1 billion in the
same period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The amount of borrowing is the biggest since before Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed two years ago, triggering the
global credit crisis.  Companies are taking advantage of the cheapest borrowing
costs on record as near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and
Europe drive investors to seek higher-yielding assets in
emerging markets.  ‘Fight’ for Growth  Russia’s economy shrank by a record 7.9 percent last year
as oil prices fell by more than $110 a barrel from the July 2008
peak. Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said Oct. 6 that
the country will have to “fight” to achieve growth of 3.9
percent to 4.5 percent in the next three years.  “There is much less confidence in Russian growth and
certainty as to how strong this growth will be this year and
next,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib Financial
Corp. in Moscow, said in a telephone interview. “If you go back
to April we were certainly more optimistic, the government was
very confidently talking about keeping  inflation  below the
refinancing rate and the view was that growth for this year
would be at least 5 percent or even as high as 7 percent.”  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 rose today, pushing the
yield seven basis points lower to 4.429 percent. The yield on
the government’s ruble notes due in August 2016 rose 7 basis
points to 7.24 percent and dropped 20 basis points during
October.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 4 basis points to 210,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Index. The difference compares
with 129 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 175 for Brazil,
which is ranked two steps lower that Russia’s Baa1 rating by
Moody’s.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell 2 basis points to 142
today, down from this year’s peak of 217, according to CMA
prices. The contracts, which pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements, fell 15 basis points last month.  Credit-default swaps for Russia cost 11 basis points more
than contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels lower at
Ba2. Turkey’s advantage is the biggest since October 2009.
Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis points less than Turkey on
April 20.  The ruble was little changed at 30.8560 per dollar by 2:21
p.m. in Moscow, trading near its weakest closing level since
Oct. 20. The currency weakened 0.9 percent against the dollar
last month.  Consumer Confidence  Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge against currency
movements, show the ruble at 31.0950 per dollar in three months.  While Russian bonds are underperforming emerging-market
peers, yields are near the lowest since JPMorgan began tracking
the securities in May 2002, at an  average  5.26 percent on Oct.
13 for government dollar bonds. Russia’s 2020 notes yielded
4.153 on Oct. 13, the lowest since they were sold in April, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Russia’s economy will grow 4 percent this year, compared
with a 10.5 percent expansion in China and 9.7 percent in India,
according to the Washington-based  IMF’s  October World Economic
Outlook. Citigroup lowered its growth forecast for Russia as
lower-than-forecast consumption growth and higher inflation
expectations limit the recovery.  Retail sales growth missed economists’ forecasts in
September and  inflation  accelerated to an annual 7 percent, the
highest level since February, after the worst heatwave in at
least 50 years destroyed crops and pushed up food prices.
 Consumer confidence  declined in the third quarter for the first
time this year.  “The adverse weather conditions are partly to blame” for
the underperformance in the bond market along with the jump in
bond issuance, UniCredit’s Toth said.  -- With assistance from Maria Levitov in Moscow. Editor: Gavin
Serkin, Alex Nicholson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  