-- Qatar Economic Growth to Double to 16% This Year, Central Bank Chief Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l i f
-- 2010-10-31T13:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/qatar-central-bank-governor-al-thani-sees-economy-growing-16-this-year.html
The economic growth of Qatar is
expected to almost double this year to 16 percent, making it the
fastest growing economy in the Middle East, Central Bank
Governor Sheikh Abdullah Al Thani said.  The gross domestic product of the energy-rich country,
which relies on oil and gas exports, expanded 8.6 percent in
2009, the governor said at an economic conference in Kuwait
today.  “It comes from growth in external demand,”  Simon Williams , the Dubai-based chief Middle East economist at HSBC
Plc, said by telephone. “ I am looking at gains in average
liquefied natural gas output as well as some other areas of
exports. Domestic demand growth will be more moderate.”  Qatar is the world’s biggest producer of liquefied natural
gas and a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, or OPEC. The wealth has spurred a purchase spree of
assets in developed nations, including Harrods Ltd. store and
real estate in London, as well as domestic infrastructure
projects.  The central bank’s projection for economic growth matches
that of the International Monetary Fund, which expects the
economy of the emirate to expand 18.6 percent in 2011.  Outpacing the Neighbors  It sets the emirate apart from neighboring countries in the
Gulf Cooperation Council, a loose political and economic
alliance that also includes Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman
and the United Arab Emirates.  Bahrain expects its economy to expand 4 percent this year,
compared with 3.5 percent in 2009, Central Bank Governor  Rasheed Al-Maraj  told reporters today in Kuwait.  The kingdom is not worried about inflation, which the IMF
projects to average at 2.6 percent this year.  “At this stage we don’t think inflation is a problem for
us,” Al-Maraj said. “But the global increase in food prices is
a concern if it translated into higher prices in the local
economy.”  The IMF expects the economies of all oil exports in the
Middle East and Africa to expand 3.8 percent in 2010 and 5
percent next year.  The combined current account surplus of the oil exporters
in the region will rise by about $80 billion on current oil
price expectations, the IMF said on Oct. 24. Of this, close to
$50 billion is accounted for by GCC members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  