-- RBA's Stevens Weighs Rate Increase With Australian Economy in `Sweet Spot'
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 2010-10-31T23:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/rba-s-stevens-weighs-rate-increase-with-australian-economy-in-sweet-spot-.html
Reserve Bank of Australia policy
makers will weigh slower inflation and weaker business credit
against accelerating employment when they meet tomorrow to
decide whether to resume raising interest rates.  Seventeen of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
expect Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board to leave the
overnight cash rate target at 4.5 percent, with the others
predicting an increase to 4.75 percent. The decision is
scheduled for 2:30 p.m. tomorrow in Sydney.  With consumer prices inside the central bank’s target range,
Stevens has the option of leaving the rate untouched for a sixth
month or tightening policy before wages and other costs start to
rise. Australia is undergoing a mining boom that International
Monetary Fund staff last week said is starting to exhibit
“early signs” of inflation pressures.  “The economy is at a ‘sweet spot,’ but history tells us it
won’t stay there long, with inflation likely to be picking up
soon,” said  Paul Bloxham , chief economist for Australia and New
Zealand at HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney and a former RBA official.
He predicts the RBA will wait until its Dec. 7 meeting to raise.  Traders estimated a 22 percent chance Stevens would raise
the benchmark rate tomorrow, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on interbank  futures  on the Sydney Futures Exchange at
10:28 a.m. The odds of a rise next month were 40 percent.  ‘Finely Balanced’  The central bank signaled after its Oct. 5 meeting that the
decision to leave borrowing costs unchanged was “finely
balanced” with the case for an increase, as a rising currency
helped ease inflation concerns. Most economists had forecast a
quarter percentage-point increase at that meeting.  Since the October meeting, the Australian dollar has gained
about 1.5 percent. It surged toward parity with the U.S.
currency through the first half of the month after an Oct. 7
report showed the biggest back-to-back monthly job increases
since 1988. It fell 1.4 percent on Oct. 27 after a report showed
consumer prices rose less than forecast last quarter.  A private survey today showed Australian manufacturing
contracted in October for a second month as the stronger
currency eroded demand for exports.  The RBA’s decision this week comes a day before the U.S.
 Federal Reserve , which has kept its benchmark interest rate near
zero since December 2008, announces its next policy move, and
the same day as the Reserve Bank of India, which has raised
rates five times this year, decides on its borrowing costs.  3.5% Expansion  Australia’s  unemployment rate , at 5.1 percent in September,
is about half the level of joblessness in the U.S. and euro zone.
The IMF predicts growth will accelerate next year to 3.5 percent
from 3 percent this year.  “With a strong outlook, we expect the next move to be in
December, following more confirmation of accelerating growth,”
Bloxham said.  IMF staff said in a report last week that the RBA will need
to raise rates to reduce inflation should Australia’s mining-
driven recovery proceed and risks to the global economic outlook
dissipate.  “The RBA agreed that if the downside risks to the outlook
diminished and further inflation pressures emerged, the policy
rate would need to be raised,” IMF staff said as part of an
annual consultation, called an Article IV review, on Oct. 29.  Inflation Gauge  A private  gauge  of Australia’s inflation accelerated last
month at the fastest pace in two years as costs rose for
automotive fuel, insurance and food. Consumer prices increased
3.8 percent in October from a year earlier, according to an
index compiled by TD Securities Ltd. and the Melbourne Institute
released in Sydney today. Prices increased 0.3 percent from a
month earlier.  The nation’s  consumer price index  rose 0.7 percent from the
second quarter, less than the 0.8 percent median estimate of
economists, a government report showed Oct. 27. Prices gained
2.8 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier.  The  central bank  aims to keep inflation in a range of 2
percent to 3 percent on average.  Bank Lending  A report last week showed loans provided by  Australian
banks  and finance companies rose 0.1 percent in September from
the previous month, while lending to companies fell 0.9 percent
from August and 3.7 percent from a year earlier.  Even so, Australia is undergoing a hiring boom as companies
such as BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group increase shipments
of iron ore and coal to China.  Data released last week showed prices paid to Australian
producers rose 1.3 percent in the third quarter, the most in
almost two years, and an Oct. 7 report revealed that Australian
employers in September added the most workers in eight months.  The IMF staff estimated the Australian dollar is “mildly
overvalued” by 5 percent to 15 percent in the medium term,
while adding that the increase is likely to be temporary and may
dissipate with more normal interest rates in the U.S. and other
advanced economies.  Australia’s biggest banks have signaled they may need to
raise interest rates by more than the cash rate to make up for
higher funding costs. That prompted opposition Liberal-National
coalition treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey  to call for lenders to
be prevented from increasing rates above any RBA move, saying
the banks have “more power than at any other time.”  Profits  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said Oct. 28 its
second-half profit jumped 69 percent to a record, partly on a
rise in lending to home buyers, and a day earlier National
Australia Bank Ltd. announced a 32 percent rise in second-half
cash profit.  Michael Smith , ANZ’s chief executive officer, said in
response to Hockey’s comments that it was a “shame” the
coalition, which had a “very good track record on economic
management,” would suggest regulation. “It’s pure populism,”
Smith said.  Whatever the outcome of tomorrow’s RBA meeting, it will be
a “close call,” said  Stephen Walters , chief economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney, who forecasts a quarter-point
increase. “There is a material risk the RBA waits until
December before hiking again.”  
To contact the reporters for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Petrie  in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  