-- RBI May Raise Rates for Sixth Time in Boost for Rupee Yields: India Credit
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 2010-11-01T05:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/rbi-may-raise-rates-for-sixth-time-in-boost-for-rupee-yields-india-credit.html
India’s central bank may raise
interest rates for a sixth time this year in Asia’s fastest
round of increases, encouraging record investment in the
nation’s debt that has driven the rupee to a two-year high.  The Reserve Bank of India may boost the  repurchase rate  to
6.25 percent from 6 percent tomorrow at 11:30 a.m. in Mumbai,
according to 15 of 23 economists’ forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey. Six of the eight predicting no increase expect higher
borrowing costs by year-end.  The yield  advantage  for Indian 10-year bonds over similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries climbed to a decade high of 5.67
percentage points last month, helping lure the unprecedented $10
billion of  inflows  into rupee debt this year. While  inflation 
has slowed, the annual rate at more than 8 percent is still
double the level the government says is “ideal” in a country
where almost 75 percent of the people live on less than $2 a day.  “The tendency toward higher interest rates is more
powerful in India than in the U.S., Europe and Japan due to
inflation pressure,” Sergey Dergachev, who helps manage $6
billion of emerging-market debt at Union Investment in Frankfurt,
said in an Oct. 28 interview. “Rupee assets will benefit from
the increasingly favorable yield differential.”  The rupee, which rose 0.1 percent to 44.365 as of 10:43 a.m.
in Mumbai today, has strengthened 4.7 percent this year as total
foreign holdings of India’s corporate and government debt more
than doubled to $17.3 billion. The International Monetary Fund
on Oct. 6 raised its 2010 economic growth forecast for India to
9.7 percent from 9.4 percent, the fastest pace after China.  Manufacturing Growth  India’s manufacturing growth accelerated in October. The
Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 57.2 from 55.1 in September,
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in an emailed
statement today. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Since Governor Duvvuri Subbarao’s first rate increase this
year on March 19, the spread between India’s debt due in a
decade and 10-year Treasuries has widened 131 basis points, or
1.31 percentage points, to 551 today. The gap, which has
averaged 317 in the past decade, reached a 10-year high of 567
basis points on Oct. 20.  India’s 10-year government bond yield fell 3 basis points
to 8.11 percent last week, after reaching a two-year high of
8.18 percent on Oct. 26. The wholesale-price index, the main
inflation gauge in India, rose 8.62 percent in September.
Consumer prices climbed 4.7 percent in Brazil, 7 percent in
Russia and 3.6 percent in China. Indian Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said on Oct. 26 that a pace of between 4 percent and 5
percent a year is ideal.  ‘Uncomfortable’ Inflation  “The uncomfortable level of inflation warrants a rate
increase,” said Krishnamurthy Harihar, Mumbai-based treasurer
at the Indian unit of FirstRand Ltd., South Africa’s second-
largest financial services company. He expects the yield to
advance as much as 15 basis points by the year-end.  Ashok Chawla , the top bureaucrat in the finance ministry,
told reporters in New Delhi today that inflation remains a
“major” concern in India.  The cost of fixing rupee borrowing costs for 12 months in
the interest-rate swap market  surged  a record 166 basis points
this year to 6.72 percent, as investors increased bets Subbarao
will raise rates, Bloomberg data show. The swap rate rose six
basis points last week.  The central bank may pause its rate-increase cycle because
of the spurt in  short-term borrowing  costs after investors
drained cash for initial public offerings, according to HSBC.
Rates for three-month corporate debt  almost doubled  to 8.4
percent this year as investors pulled money from banks to buy
stock in Coal India’s Ltd.’s 152 billion rupee ($3.4 billion)
offering, the nation’s biggest-ever initial share sale.  Injecting Funds  The Reserve Bank said on Oct. 29 it would inject funds into
the banking system by conducting special repurchase auctions to
ease a cash crunch after  overnight lending rates  touched 12.25
percent the same day, the highest level since Nov. 1, 2008. It
added 110.25 billion rupees on Oct. 30.  “The RBI will weigh the impact of previous rate increases
and the surge in the rupee before moving on rates,” said
Frederic Neumann, co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC.
“On balance, it might be better to wait for several weeks for
the liquidity squeeze to abate before tightening again.”  The finance ministry’s Chawla said the steps to ease the
cash squeeze aren’t related to the central bank’s interest-rate
policy.  ‘Kill’ Exporters  The rupee may gain 2 percent to 43.5 by the end of 2011,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 18
analysts. The strengthening rupee will “kill” exporters,
Infosys Technologies Ltd., India’s second-biggest software
exporter, said Oct. 15. It may also reduce the cost of imported
materials.  Prices of credit-default swaps used to protect against
losses on the debt of seven Indian companies fell in the past
three months, according to the data provider CMA. Swap prices
dropped 14 percent to 165 basis points for  State Bank of India ,
the nation’s largest lender, and 13 percent to 201 for ICICI
Bank Ltd., the country’s second-biggest lender.  Credit-default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  India is also forecasting record crops after the heaviest
monsoon rains since 2007, which may damp food prices, according
to Nomura Holdings Inc. and Barclays Plc. The Reserve Bank said
in its annual report on Aug. 24 that a rise in prices of
property and shares remained a concern.  The value of residential space in Gurgaon near New Delhi
has surged 38 percent in two years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The benchmark 30-stock  Sensitive Index  approached
a record high last month and is up 15 percent in 2010.  “The RBI wants to somehow ensure that inflation doesn’t
get out of hand,” said Maneesh Dangi, who manages the
equivalent of $13 billion as head of fixed income in Mumbai at
Birla Sun Life Asset Management Co. “It has to strike a fine
balance between curbing inflation and at the same time modulate
inflows and its impact on the rupee.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  