-- Republicans to Win Control of House, Cut Federal Spending, McCarthy Says
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2010-10-31T16:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/republicans-predict-obama-rebuff-in-election-democrats-foresee-surprise.html
Republicans  Haley Barbour  and  Sarah Palin  cast the Nov. 2 election as a repudiation of President
 Barack Obama ’s policies and a “political earthquake” that will
blow Democrats out of office.  Democrats, in making their closing arguments to voters on
the Sunday talk shows, said their party may still keep control
of the House of Representatives. If they don’t, voters will
expect Republicans to compromise with Obama in order to trim the
budget deficit,  Democratic National Committee  Chairman  Tim Kaine 
warned on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program.  Barbour,  Republican Governors Association  chairman, said on
NBC that “the midterm election is a referendum on Obama’s
policies” and predicted that the Republicans will take over the
House.  “It’s going to be a political earthquake and the message
will have been sent to the left that they blew it,” Palin,
former Alaska governor and Republican vice presidential nominee,
said on “Fox News Sunday.”  Nonpartisan political analysts, including  Charlie Cook  of
the  Cook Political Report  in Washington, project the election
will cost Democrats the House and several seats in the Senate.  Democrats Fired Up  “Democrats are much more fired up in the last two weeks
than people would think,” said Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell , speaking on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program.  “It’s not a lost cause,” Representative  Chris Van Hollen ,
head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said on
Fox. “All these Washington pundits are going to be surprised.”  Republicans need a net gain of 39 seats to win the House.
Republicans have a 47 percent to 44 percent edge among likely
voters in congressional races, according to a Bloomberg National
Poll conducted Oct. 24-26.  Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas Republican, said he doesn’t
think his party will take control of the Senate in this
election.  “We’ll make a lot of headway,” Cornyn said today on ABC’s
“This Week” program. “I’m not predicting that we’ll get the
majority this cycle. It’ll probably going to take two cycles but
there’s certainly the potential there.”  Barbour, governor of Mississippi, said the election is a
referendum on Obama’s health care and economic policies that
represent the “biggest lurch to the left in American political
history.”  One-Term President  Kaine said Republicans, including Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell , have a “political and partisan agenda.”
McConnell recently told the National Journal that “the single
most important thing we want to achieve is for President Obama
to be a one-term president.” Rendell said McConnell’s recent
“attacks” on the president have “fired up” African American
voters in particular.  Kaine said Democratic losses would force House Republicans
to vote for unpopular spending cuts and tax increases in order
to uphold a pledge to voters to trim the budget deficit by $100
billion next year.  “The Republicans will be forced to govern,” said Kaine.
Republicans will face a difficult choice on whether to keep
former President  George W. Bush ’s tax cuts for all Americans or
to end them for those earning $250,000 a year or more, as Obama
has proposed, Kaine said.  “We’re going to put the Republicans to their word and see
if they are willing to reject what they did in the Bush
administration,” said Kaine.  Cutting the Budget  Barbour expressed confidence Republicans would honor their
promise to cut the budget deficit, saying $100 billion
represents just 3 percent of the total federal budget. “It can
be done,” he said, without providing specifics.  Minnesota Senator  Amy Klobuchar , speaking on CBS, said two
potential areas for compromise would be to continue the Bush tax
cuts for a year or two for those earning more than $250,000 or
immediately end the cuts for those earning more than $1 million
a year. “I don’t think that is going to disrupt our economy,”
said Klobuchar, a Democrat.  Palin said biased media coverage of the Alaska senate race
has hurt Tea Party-backed Republican candidate Joe Miller’s
campaign against write-in candidate Republican Senator  Lisa Murkowski .  Miller’s campaign has been struggling, creating an
opportunity for Democratic candidate  Scott McAdams , mayor of
Sitka, in the three-way contest.  “That’s sick,” Palin said of the media coverage. “Those
are corrupt bastards. That is what’s wrong with the media today
when they have their chosen one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  