-- Shanghai's World Expo to Close After Attracting Record 72 Million Visitors
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-31T00:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/shanghai-s-world-expo-to-close-after-attracting-record-72-million-visitors.html
Shanghai’s  $44 billion World Expo
closes today after China’s richest city hosted a record number
of visitors during the six-month event.  A ceremony will be held in the evening along the city’s
Huangpu river, with leaders including Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao 
and United Nations Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  in attendance.
The Expo has attracted almost 73 million visitors since it
opened to the public on May 1, according to its  website ,
surpassing the 64 million people that attended the 1970 expo in
Osaka, Japan.  Authorities in Shanghai campaigned against spitting and
littering, expanded the subway system and built two new airport
terminals to prepare for the biggest event to be held in the
city. The exhibition, with pavilions from about 190 nations from
the U.S. to North Korea, may lift Shanghai’s economic growth to
more than 8.5 percent this year from 8.2 percent in 2009, the 
Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences  estimates.  “The Expo was a turning point for Shanghai as the city now
moves up the ranks of the world’s metropolises,” said Tu Qiyu,
head of the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences’s urban research
center. “The Expo has been a huge education for Shanghai and
many Chinese in modernization.”  After winning hosting rights in 2002, Shanghai allotted
28.6 billion yuan ($4.3 billion) for construction and operating
costs and 270 billion yuan for infrastructure, including the
airport terminals and a three-year renovation of The Bund
waterfront area. Shanghai’s  growth  last year was at the slowest
pace in 18 years.  Shanghai Subway  Shanghai accelerated its expansion of the  subway system  to
more than 400 kilometers to meet demand from the influx of
visitors during the Expo, making it the biggest city transport
underground network in China.  “The Expo provided a short-term boost for the local retail
and hospitality sectors,” said  Jing Ulrich , chairwoman for
China equities and commodities at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Hong
Kong. “The long-term benefits will be realized through the
significant investment in infrastructure, which have opened up
whole new districts and markets in and around Shanghai.”  The event may have generated tourism spending of more than
80 billion yuan for Shanghai and neighboring cities along the
Yangtze River, the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported on Oct.
26, citing the China Tourism Academy.  The attractions included pavilions of cultural and
corporate displays, with Denmark shipping across the bronze
Little Mermaid statue from Copenhagen’s waterfront and  General
Electric Co. , BP Plc,  Coca-Cola Co.  and Johnson & Johnson among
the sponsors.  Raised Profile  The Expo raised the city’s profile and highlighted the
“hardware” of world-class offices and five-star hotels that
will help to attract foreign businesses, said  Victoria Mio , a
regular visitor to the city who is a Hong Kong-based senior fund
manager at Robeco Group, which oversees about $186 billion.  As part of sprucing up the city, the government asked
residents to drop a local habit of walking on the streets in
pajamas.  The Expo was part of an investment campaign in the city of
19.2 million people that China aims to develop into a global
financial center by 2020. That goal may be hampered by the
nation’s restrictions on capital flows and its currency, the
yuan or renminbi.  A 29.3 billion yuan high-speed rail line connecting
Shanghai and Hangzhou, the capital city of Zhejiang province,
started operating on Oct. 26, while The Bund, Shanghai’s
colonial-era waterfront strip, will be further developed as a
center for financial companies. Construction on  Walt Disney
Co. ’s theme park in Shanghai will start in November, the
Shanghai Securities News reported on Oct. 18.  Container Port  Shanghai overtook Singapore as the world’s busiest
container port in August, operates China’s biggest stock
exchange by market capitalization, and its economy last year
surpassed Hong Kong’s.  Still, an absence of transparent market regulation, the
free flow of information and the rule of law means the city is
“nowhere near” replacing Hong Kong as a financial center, said
James McGregor, a senior counselor in Beijing at public-affairs
company APCO Worldwide and author of the book “One Billion
Customers.”  -- Sophie Leung ,  Li Yanping ,  Stephanie Wong , with assistance from
 Chua Kongho  and Chua Baizhen. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst , Jonathan
Annells  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6126 or
 Sleung59@bloomberg.net 
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3042 or
 swong139@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  