-- Shanghai Marks End of Record World Expo With Songs and Dance
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-31T16:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/shanghai-s-world-expo-closes-after-hosting-a-record-73-million-visitors.html
Shanghai’s  World Expo  transformed the
city with a $44 billion makeover of roads, subway lines and its
riverside Bund and was celebrated with traditional songs and
dance when it closed late yesterday.  The six-month event attracted 73.1 million visitors,
topping the record of 64 million set in Osaka, Japan, in 1970.  Campaigns against spitting, littering and wearing pajamas
in public burnished Shanghai’s image, as the 2008 Summer
Olympics helped boost Beijing. The exhibition, with pavilions
from about 200 nations from the U.S. to North Korea, may lift
growth in China’s richest city to more than 8.5 percent this
year, the   Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences  estimates.  “The Expo has helped Shanghai become a world-class city,”
said  James McGregor , a senior counselor in Beijing at public-
affairs company APCO Worldwide and author of the book “One
Billion Customers.” “People are in Gucci shoes and designer
jeans, they’re not in pajamas anymore.”  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  declared the closure of the Expo
at a ceremony with music and traditional dances performed by
more than 4,000 people including martial artist  Jackie Chan .
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  and U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
were among those who visited the Expo.  “The Expo has brought together the Chinese people wishing
to learn more about the world and foreign friends wishing to
know more about China,” Wen said yesterday. The exposition was
a “severe test” to China and Shanghai as it was held under the
shadow of the global financial crisis, he said.  Construction Budget  After winning hosting rights in 2002, Shanghai allotted
28.6 billion yuan ($4.3 billion) for construction and operating
costs and 270 billion yuan for infrastructure, including two
airport terminals and a three-year renovation of The Bund. Last
year, Shanghai’s  economy  grew 8.2 percent, the slowest pace in
18 years.  Shanghai accelerated the expansion of its  subway system  to
more than 400 kilometers to meet demand from the influx of
visitors during the Expo, making it the biggest city transport
underground network in China.  “The Expo provided a short-term boost for the local retail
and hospitality sectors,” said  Jing Ulrich , chairwoman for
China equities and commodities at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Hong
Kong. “The long-term benefits will be realized through the
significant investments in infrastructure, which have opened up
whole new districts and markets in and around Shanghai.”  GE, Coca-Cola  The event may have generated tourism spending of more than
80 billion yuan for Shanghai and neighboring cities along the
Yangtze River, the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported on Oct.
26, citing the China Tourism Academy.  Main attractions included pavilions of cultural and
corporate displays, with Denmark shipping across the bronze
Little Mermaid statue and  General Electric Co. , BP Plc,  Coca-
Cola Co.  and Johnson & Johnson among the sponsors. Visitors
waited for as long as nine hours to enter some of the most
popular pavilions, such as the 1.1 billion-yuan Saudi Arabia
one, the most expensive among them and was equipped with the
world’s largest IMAX cinema.  The Expo raised the city’s profile and highlighted the
“hardware” of world-class offices and five-star hotels that
will help to attract foreign businesses, said  Victoria Mio , a
regular visitor to the city who is a Hong Kong-based senior fund
manager at Robeco Group, which oversees about $186 billion.  No Pajamas  As part of sprucing up the city, the government asked
residents to drop a local habit of walking on the streets in
pajamas. The event offered an opportunity for people to
“correct this bad habits,” Vice Mayor Yang Xiong said in
 January .  The Expo was part of an investment campaign in the city of
19.2 million people that China aims to develop into a global
financial center by 2020.  A 29.3 billion-yuan high-speed rail line connecting
Shanghai and Hangzhou, the capital city of Zhejiang province,
started operating on Oct. 26, while The Bund, Shanghai’s
colonial-era waterfront strip, will be further developed as a
center for financial companies.  Walt Disney Co. ’s theme park in
Shanghai will start construction in November, the Shanghai
Securities News reported on Oct. 18.  Shanghai overtook Singapore as the world’s busiest
container port in August, operates China’s biggest stock
exchange by market capitalization and last year surpassed Hong
Kong in economic size. The city’s goal of becoming a top
financial center is made more difficult by the nation’s
restrictions on capital flows and its currency, the yuan or
renminbi.  Still, an absence of transparent market regulation, a free
flow of information and the rule of law means the city is
“nowhere near” replacing Hong Kong as a financial center,
according to APCO’s McGregor.  -- Sophie Leung ,  Li Yanping ,  Stephanie Wong , with assistance
from  Chua Kongho , Baizhen Chua and  Eva Woo . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Dick Schumacher .  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6126 or
 Sleung59@bloomberg.net 
 Stephanie Wong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3042 or
 swong139@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  