-- Slim Solution for Trade Imbalances Is More Buying by China
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-10-31T16:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/slim-solution-for-trade-imbalances-is-more-buying-by-china-u-s-investing.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim , the world’s
richest man, said China must buy more and the U.S. needs to step
up private investment to reduce the trade imbalance and boost
their economies.  Global currency devaluation efforts will fail in the
absence of economic policies that foster growth, said Slim, 70,
in an interview in New York on Oct. 29.  “The best way to have a healthy fiscal environment is that
investment should be done by the private sector,” Slim said.
Currency devaluations “will not succeed in any way and they
will pressure commodities,” he said.  Slim, the controlling shareholder of Mexico City-based
 America Movil SAB , Latin America’s largest wireless carrier,
said the U.S. must rely on private industry rather than stimulus
plans and China needs to increase domestic demand. Billionaires
 Warren Buffett  and  Bill Gates  have supported President Barack
Obama’s estimated $787 billion program to create jobs and
infrastructure projects, while cautioning industry from becoming
too dependent on federal spending.  Near zero interest rates in the U.S. make “most” private
investment “profitable,” said Slim, whose net worth is
estimated by Forbes at $53.5 billion. If interest rates are “10
percent, many investments are not feasible.” The U.S. overnight
lending rate is in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, while in
Mexico it’s 4.5 percent.  “In the U.S., you have a big problem with retirement and
benefits,” said Slim. “The rate is now 18 percent of GDP, and
going to 20 percent without financial services. You need to make
all these corrections.”  ‘Temporary Medicine’  Slim’s America Movil bought his Telmex Internacional SAB in
a $23 billion transaction in June to add phone, Internet, and
cable- and satellite-TV operations in Brazil, Colombia and other
parts of the region. The company plans to combine Telmex’s
regional fiber-optic networks with its own to offer faster
mobile Internet speeds to customers.  The global financial crisis is a sign that governments must
rein in debt, Slim said in comments to the George Washington
University Global Forum in New York on Oct. 29. Fiscal and
monetary policies are only “temporary medicine,” he said.  “You can only increase income, revenue, let down costs or
sell assets.”  Stimulus Support  The U.S. Federal Reserve is considering a round of asset
purchases after buying $1.7 trillion in debt from December 2008
to March.  Buffett, ranked the third-richest man by Forbes, said in a
June 2009 Bloomberg Television interview that the U.S. may need
a second economic stimulus package to combat rising
unemployment. In his annual letter to investors issued in March
2009, Buffett also said “major industries have become dependent
on federal assistance and they will be followed by cities and
states bearing mind-boggling requests.”  Gates, the co-founder of  Microsoft Corp. , called Obama’s
economic stimulus package “essential” in a December 2008
speech at George Washington University in Washington. “Spending
is the only way to get out of this downturn,” Gates said.  Currency devaluation efforts with high commodities prices
are a danger, said Slim. “If currencies go down and the
commodities stay up, there will be a big problem for the
population,” increasing food prices and sparking inflation, he
said.  Trade Tensions  Finance chiefs from South Korea to South Africa signaled
on Oct. 27 they may act to slow gains in their currencies, just
four days after the Group of 20 vowed to soothe trade tensions
in the $4 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market.  Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said on Oct. 27 that
measures to mitigate capital flows could be “useful.” South
African Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan said his government will
use part of higher-than-expected tax revenue to build foreign
reserves as it attempts to weaken the currency.  G-20 policy makers called for more sustainable current-
account deficits without embracing a U.S. proposal for targets.
G-20 representatives will meet again in Seoul on Nov. 11 and 12.  Obama and President Hu Jintao of China are scheduled to
meet one-on-one Nov. 11 at the  G20 summit  amid strains over
currency and trade. The Obama administration is under pressure
from Congress to combat what the U.S. says is an undervalued
yuan that gives Chinese exporters an advantage.  “In the new society you need competition, innovation,
technology and flexibility and the private sector is who can
manage that,” said Slim. “The government doesn’t have the
flexibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  