-- South Korea's Inflation Rate Climbs to 20-Month High, Adding Rate Pressure
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-10-31T23:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/south-korea-s-inflation-rate-climbs-to-20-month-high-adding-rate-pressure.html
South Korea’s consumer prices grew
more than expected, increasing at the fastest pace in 20 months
and bolstering the case for higher borrowing costs.  The consumer price  index  rose 4.1 percent in October from a
year earlier, accelerating from a 3.6 percent advance in
September, the statistics office said in Gwacheon today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of nine economists
was 3.4 percent. Prices rose 0.2 percent from September.  The  Bank of Korea  left borrowing costs at 2.25 percent for
the third straight month in October as it assesses the strength
of the global recovery. While a recent rise in the won offers a
potential damper for price gains, today’s reading exceeds the
central bank’s 4 percent ceiling.  “Inflation pressures are building up rapidly,” Park Jong
Yeon, a fixed-income analyst at Woori Investment & Securities Co.
in Seoul, said before the release. “The central bank will now
move to raise interest rates as they’re now more concerned about
inflation than economic growth.”  The central bank aims for inflation of 2 percent to 4
percent on average through 2012. The expected inflation rate
over the next year climbed to 3.4 percent in October from 3.2
percent in the previous month, according to a Bank of Korea
survey released last week.  Economic Growth  The growth rate in Asia’s fourth-largest economy halved
last quarter to 0.7 percent as goods shipments eased, a report
showed on Oct. 27.  The won closed 0.1 percent lower at 1,125.16 per dollar on
Oct. 29, while the benchmark Kospi stock index slid 1.3 percent
to 1,882.95. The currency has risen by 5.1 percent over the past
three months.  Governor  Kim Choong Soo  and the policy board raised the
benchmark interest rate from a record-low 2 percent in July
after the fastest first-half economic expansion in a decade
stoked price pressures.  Minutes of their meeting in September showed the board was
split, with two of six members calling for a quarter-percentage-
point increase to tackle inflation risks. The rest voted for no
change, citing risks surrounding major economies.  Core prices , which exclude oil and food, rose 1.9 percent
in October from a year earlier, the same pace as in September.
Prices for agricultural, dairy and fisheries goods increased
22.7 percent, and oil products climbed 7.3 percent, today’s
report showed.  South Korea grew 4.5 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier, slowing from a 7.2 percent pace in the previous
three-month period. Full-year growth will likely be 6 percent,
the finance ministry said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  