-- U.S., Japan Seek to Calm China Tension Over Disputed Islands Ahead of G-20
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-10-31T23:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/u-s-japan-seek-to-calm-china-tension-over-disputed-islands-ahead-of-g-20.html
The U.S. and Japan moved to smooth
relations with China before a Group of 20 summit 10 days from
now after recurring territorial spats raised tensions between
the world’s three biggest economies.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  met Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  for 10 minutes on Oct. 30 after remarks on disputed
islands scuttled more formal talks. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  offered to mediate between the two while repeating a U.S.
legal obligation to defend Japan’s claims.  U.S., Japanese and Southeast Asian calls since July for
China to agree on a binding set of rules for encounters in
disputed waters have distracted Asian leaders as they seek a
global deal on currency policy for the G-20 meeting in Seoul.
China’s resistance to a code of conduct in surrounding waters
has put it “on the back foot” and invited a greater U.S. role
in Asian affairs, said  Carlyle A. Thayer , professor of politics
at the Australian Defense Force Academy in Canberra.  “If the U.S. and Japan didn’t raise the issue out of
deference to China, then China would’ve won,” Thayer said,
adding that the conflict was unlikely to affect the G-20 talks.
“China is joined at the hip with the U.S. economically, and as
much as they have friction, the two need each other.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  and President  Hu Jintao  of
China are scheduled to meet one-on-one Nov. 11 at the G-20
summit to discuss currency and the trade balance between the two
countries. Obama’s trip starts Nov. 5 with a visit to India and
includes stops in Indonesia, Japan and South Korea.  Clinton Meetings  Clinton met separately over the weekend with Chinese
Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  and his superior, State Councilor
 Dai Bingguo . In a two-hour Oct. 30 meeting with Dai on China’s
Hainan Island, Clinton said the U.S. wants tensions between
Japan and China to ease, according to a U.S. official who
briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity.  “We’ve encouraged both Japan and China to seek a peaceful
resolution of any disagreement,” Clinton told reporters on Oct.
30 in Hanoi, where she attended a regional summit with Wen, Kan
and 15 other Asia-Pacific leaders.  Clinton asked China’s Dai to ensure that North Korea
refrains from provocative actions during the G-20 and returns to
talks on dismantling its nuclear program, the U.S. official said.
China’s foreign ministry called the meeting “candid and
friendly,” state-run Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.  Two days earlier, China accused Japan of ruining the
atmosphere for talks between Wen and Kan by giving “untrue”
media statements, Xinhua cited Chinese Assistant Foreign
Minister Hu Zhengyue as saying. The two countries need to deepen
ties, Kan told reporters Oct. 30.  ‘Deep Dissatisfaction’  China’s foreign ministry expressed “deep dissatisfaction”
with Clinton on Oct. 29 for saying the disputed islands, known
as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China, fall within the Japan-
U.S. security alliance, Xinhua said. Yang told Clinton in their
Oct. 30 meeting that the U.S. should respect China’s sovereignty
and not make “irresponsible remarks,” Xinhua reported.  Japan is one of five U.S. allies in the region, along with
South Korea, the Philippines, Thailand and Australia. The U.S.
has boosted its naval presence in Singapore and is increasing
cooperation with the Indian navy, Clinton said on Oct. 28, while
denying that increased military ties with Asian countries were
aimed at containing China.  Sea Collision  A Sept. 7 collision between a Chinese fishing boat and
Japanese Coast Guard vessels near the disputed islands soured
relations and reportedly prompted Beijing to cut exports of
rare-earth minerals, used in hybrid cars and batteries. Wen
pledged a steady supply of the minerals during an Oct. 28
meeting with Kan and South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak . Both
Yang and Dai repeated those vows to Clinton.  The U.S. raised the issue of maritime security at the three
days of meetings in Hanoi along with Japan and several countries
in the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations . Clinton said Oct.
30 she was “encouraged” that another round of working-level
talks on a sea code involving Asean and China, which have been
stalled since 2002, will take place in December.  In July, Yang said Clinton’s offer to mediate disputes in
the South China Sea was “virtually an attack on China.” U.S.
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said Oct. 12 that China’s actions
in the seas are “clearly on everybody’s mind” and fall within
the sphere of maritime security.  Rocky outcrops in the South China Sea that may contain oil
and gas reserves are claimed in whole or in part by China,
Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan. China has
aimed to keep its territorial disputes off the agenda at
regional meetings, preferring one-on-one negotiations.  “The South China Sea issue is seen as the next challenge,
the next problem in our region,” Indonesian Foreign Minister
 Marty Natalegawa  said Oct. 28. “This can be a self-fulfilling
type of mentality, and we are keen to nip it in the bud.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Hanoi at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net 
 Nicole Gaouette  on Hainan Island, China at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net ; 