-- Unemployment Probably Hovered Near 10% as Fed Discusses Additional Easing
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-10-31T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/unemployment-probably-hovered-near-10-u-s-economy-preview.html
Unemployment in the U.S. probably
kept hovering near 10 percent in October, one reason the
recovery that began more than a year ago has disappointed
Federal Reserve policy makers, economists said before a report
this week.  The  jobless  rate held at 9.6 percent for a third month,
according to the  median  of 61 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey heading into a Nov. 5 report from the Labor Department.
Payrolls likely rose by 60,000, the first gain since May.  Figures last week showed third-quarter growth and inflation
in the world’s largest economy fell short of the Fed’s long-term
forecasts. Speculation the central bank will announce another
round of large-scale asset purchases, or quantitative easing,
after its Nov. 2-3 meeting propelled stocks this month and
pushed the yield on two-year Treasury notes to a record low.  “We still have a ways to go to improve the job market,”
said  Michael Gregory , a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets
in Toronto. “The payrolls report will confirm the necessity of
the quantitative easing the Fed is expected to announce.
Unemployment will remain stubbornly high.”  The jobs report may show private hiring, which excludes
government agencies, climbed 80,000 after a 64,000 gain the
prior month. Overall payrolls fell 95,000 in September,
reflecting the dismissal of temporary workers hired by the
government for the population count.  Persistent Joblessness  The unemployment rate projection for October would make it
the 15th month of joblessness at 9.5 percent or higher, the
longest stretch since records began in 1948. The worst recession
since the 1930s caused the loss of 8.4 million jobs.  The need to lift the labor market is one reason investors
expect more steps from the Fed, which has already cut interest
rates almost to zero and bought $1.7 trillion in securities.  “To the extent that we can do things to improve the
economic environment, we certainly owe it to the millions of
people who are unemployed to do so,” Fed Bank of New York
President  William Dudley  said in response to audience questions
after a speech on Oct. 25.  Fed and government stimulus has helped to sustain the
rebound. The U.S. expanded at a 2 percent annual rate last
quarter, up from a 1.7 percent pace the prior three months, the
Commerce Department reported Oct. 29.  Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
gross domestic product, climbed 2.6 percent last quarter, the
best showing of the recovery that began in June 2009, as
retailers like Wal-Mart Stores Inc. cut prices to lure shoppers.  More Spending  A Commerce Department report tomorrow may show household
spending rose for a third month in September, while  income 
growth slowed, according to the Bloomberg survey. The figures
may also show inflation cooled.  Expectations of more Fed action and rising corporate
profits helped lift the Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  3.7 percent
in October, its second monthly advance. The gauge was down less
than 0.1 percent on Oct. 29 to close at 1,183.26 in New York.  Even so, likely voters heading to the Nov. 2 congressional
elections think there hasn’t been much progress on the economy,
a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Oct. 24-26 found.  Among other reports this week, the Institute for Supply
Management’s manufacturing  index , due tomorrow, may show factory
gains are cooling after an inventory surge that put the industry
at the helm of the recovery. The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s
gauge of  services , to be released Nov. 3, probably was little-
changed from September, the Bloomberg survey showed.  Some companies plan to expand. Cedar Rapids, Iowa-based
 Rockwell Collins Inc ., a maker of cockpit instruments and
radios, last week said it’ll add 800 people, boosting staff by 4
percent during the next 12 months.  Ford Motor Co.,  the second-
largest U.S. automaker, said it will spend $850 million and add
1,200 jobs in Michigan by 2013 as sales rebound.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  