-- Turkish Stocks to Rebound After `Classic Shake-Out': Technical Analysis
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 2010-10-31T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/turkish-stocks-will-rebound-after-classic-shake-out-technical-analysis.html
Turkey’s stock index will resume its
“bullish” path after a “classic shake-out” that produced the
biggest weekly drop in six months, according to Auerbach Grayson
& Co.’s technical analysis.  The  ISE National 100 Index  fell 3.2 percent in a shortened
trading week, trimming its 2010 gain to 30 percent, after
reaching a record high on Oct. 22. Templeton Asset Management
Ltd. Executive Chairman  Mark Mobius  told reporters in Istanbul
he expected the index to drop 15 to 20 percent by yearend,
Bloomberg HT television reported Oct. 27.  Most of the decline was on  Oct. 27  when the Turkish gauge
slid 3.1 percent, representing a “healthy correction” within
an “ongoing rising trend,” said  Richard Ross , a global
technical strategist at Auerbach. It was followed the next day
by a “hammer formation,” signifying a rebound is due, he said.  The index fell as much as 1.9 percent Oct. 28, after
Citigroup Inc. downgraded the country’s equities saying economic
growth may slow, before closing up 0.3 percent, creating a
“hammer bottom.” The formation is a thick, short upper shape,
atop a long, thin line on a candle chart, occurring when a
security rallies back to or above its opening price by the end
of the day’s trading after a sharp fall. The thick top section
is formed by the opening and closing price being close to each
other, and the long tail shows the distant low point.  “Thursday’s bullish intraday reversal, or hammer
formation, should mark a near-term bottom in the index which
offers a compelling entry point on the long side,” Ross, based
in New York, wrote in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg Oct. 28. A 20 percent drop would equate with a “bear
market, and there is quite simply very little evidence from a
technical standpoint that a bear market is imminent,” he said.  One-day declines that are “sharp and swift” are to be
expected given the “recent acceleration” of the advancing
trend, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Jordan  in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  