-- Yuan Deposits Rise as Hong Kong Currency Peg Debate Heats Up
-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-01T04:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-31/yuan-deposits-rising-fuel-hong-kong-s-peg-debate-china-credit.html
Hong Kong’s growing demand for and use
of yuan has ignited a debate over whether the local dollar’s 27-
year peg to the greenback should be scrapped in favor of a link
to China’s currency.  Yuan deposits  at the city’s banks more than doubled to a
record 149 billion yuan ($22 billion) in the last six months,
the monetary authority said Oct. 29. Hong Kong dollar volatility
rose last week to the highest level of the year as exchange-rate
policy took center stage at FinanceAsia’s “RMB Rising”
conference in the city. Hong Kong Monetary Authority Chief
Executive  Norman Chan  said today that there was no plan to
change the peg, which has made the Hong Kong dollar Asia’s worst
performer of 2010.  The fixed exchange rate means monetary policy is largely
dictated by the U.S., where a 10 percent jobless rate and
sliding home prices prompted the central bank to favor near-zero
interest rates and the printing of money to sustain economic
growth. Hong Kong’s unemployment is the lowest since 2008 and
 real-estate values  jumped 50 percent since the start of 2009.  “Hong Kong has a growth rate that is linked to the fastest-
growing economy in the world, which is China, and because of its
fixed currency link, a monetary policy that is linked to the
weakest,” said  Goetz Eggelhoefer , a Singapore-based partner
with Rohatyn Group, an emerging-markets fund manager with $3
billion of assets. “Hong Kong faces the impossible trinity. It
can’t have strong growth, loose monetary policy, a weak currency
and no asset inflation. Something has to give.”  Yuan Testing Ground  The yuan has gained 24 percent since the start of 1999, the
fourth-best performance of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg, and President Barack Obama is under pressure from
U.S. lawmakers to seek faster appreciation.  China ran up a record $28 billion trade surplus with the
U.S. in August. Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, a
Montana Democrat, said in a statement last month that “China’s
decision to undervalue its currency has been a persistent thorn
in the side of our relationship.”  China needs to take steps to boost domestic demand rather
than let the currency appreciate to improve global trade, said
Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim. In an interview in New York,
Slim also said competitive devaluations “won’t succeed” and
could spur inflation should commodity prices remain high.  “If China salaries get increased and people work less they
will have more time and more money to spend,” Slim, the world’s
richest man according to Forbes magazine, said. “This domestic
demand will also help other countries in the world.”  Overseas Trade  China, which took sovereignty of Hong Kong in July 1997,
maintained the dollar link as it used the city as a hub for
overseas trade and a testing ground for the opening of its
financial markets.  “You can’t say that, if we change the peg system, the
pressure on inflation and home market would be eased,” HKMA’s
Chan told lawmakers in the city today. The yuan’s lack of
convertibility and restrictions on holdings of China’s
government debt means the currency can’t take the place of the
U.S. dollar in the existing arrangement,  John Greenwood ,
architect of Hong Kong’s peg and an adviser to the monetary
authority, said in a separate e-mail.  When the currency board Greenwood designed was adopted in
1983, China accounted for 18 percent of Hong Kong’s trade and
the U.S. 21 percent, official figures show. China made up 49
percent in the first nine months of 2010 and the U.S. 8 percent.  Loosened Restrictions  Mainland regulators have loosened restrictions on the
yuan’s use in international trade since the start of 2009 and
allowed the development of an offshore market for the currency
this year in Hong Kong.  “Within the next one to two years the HKMA is going to
have to make a choice,”  Peter Redward , the head of Emerging
Asia research at Barclays Plc, said in a phone interview. “That
is to allow the process to continue and the economy to become
increasingly yuan-denominated or to do something to stop that
process. Assuming that they don’t want to stop people owning
yuan accounts, they will have to look at the possibility of re-
pegging to the yuan.”  The spot rate for yuan in Hong Kong rose 0.6 percent last
month to 6.5805 versus the greenback, and the Shanghai rate
gained 0.3 percent to 6.6708. Non-deliverable forwards show
traders are betting on a 3.3 percent advance in the onshore rate
in the coming year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Implied Volatility  The Hong Kong dollar has been kept at about HK$7.80 versus
the greenback since 1983 and from 2005 allowed to trade up to
five cents of either side of that level. Hong Kong’s dollar was
little changed last month at HK$7.7508 and 12-month forwards
trade at HK$7.7314.  One-year implied volatility on the city’s currency, a
measure of price swings cited by traders when pricing options,
climbed 0.48 percentage point in October to 1.2 percent, the
biggest monthly increase in two years. It reached this year’s
high of 1.25 percent on Oct. 27.  The city’s central bank was forced last week to tap its
yuan swap arrangement with the People’s Bank of China after
demand for trade settlement using the currency exceeded
expectations. The Authority plans to draw 10 billion yuan
through the arrangement, out of the annual maximum of 200
billion, Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Arthur Yuen  said Oct. 28.  Monetary Policy  China’s economy expanded 9.6 percent from a year earlier in
the third quarter, while the U.S. had growth of 3.1 percent,
official figures show. Hong Kong’s gross domestic product gained
6.5 percent in the second quarter.  The People’s Bank last month raised its benchmark interest
rates for the first time since 2007, while the Federal Reserve
may announce this week it will pump more money into the U.S.
economy. Economists at Bank of America Corp. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. predict the Fed will say it plans to buy $500 billion
of fixed-income assets after a Nov. 2-3 policy meeting.  “Hong Kong is becoming much more integrated now with the
mainland than it was before,” said  Rajeev de Mello , head of
Asian investment at Western Asset Management Co., which oversaw
$482 billion of assets at the end of 2009. “The quantitative
easing in the United States is not compatible with the growth
and inflation outlook for Hong Kong.”  Bubble Risk  Cheap borrowing costs are driving asset prices higher in
Hong Kong, and HKMA’s Chan said Oct. 18 that a housing bubble
poses the biggest threat to financial stability in Asia.  A  gauge  of real-estate values in Hong Kong has gained 16
percent this year, following a 29 percent advance in 2009,
according to an index produced by Centaline Property Agency Ltd.,
the city’s biggest privately held real estate broker. Home
prices in September dropped from a year earlier in 12 of 20 U.S.
cities tracked S&P/Case-Shiller  indexes .  Five-year credit-default swap contracts  on China’s U.S.
dollar bonds dropped seven basis points last month to 60 basis
points, CMA prices show. That followed a 19 point drop in
September. Credit-default swaps typically decline as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Yields on China’s 3.28 percent bond due August 2020 rose 37
basis points last month to 3.7 percent, according to Chinabond
prices. The  extra yield  investors demand to hold benchmark 10-
year Chinese government bonds rather than similar-maturity U.S.
government debt rose to the most in at least five years in
October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap was
110 basis points at the end of last week, the data show  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  