-- FACTBOX: Fed policymakers' recent comments
-- 
-- Thu Jun 19, 2008 2:25pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/19/us-usa-fed-comments-idUSN1735325920080619

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - The following is a summary of 
recent comments by Fed policy-makers:
   * Denotes 2008 voting member of the Federal Open Market 
Committee, which sets U.S. monetary policy. 

 RICHMOND FED PRESIDENT JEFFREY LACKER, JUNE 16: "Inflation is unacceptably high... Inflation expectations 
are higher than I would like, but they are stable. The apparent 
stability of inflation does not justify complacency, however. 
Just as easing policy aggressively in response to emerging 
downside risks made sense, withdrawing some of that stimulus as 
those risks diminish makes eminent sense as well." * FED CHAIRMAN BEN BERNANKE, JUNE 16: "There are limits to how big the deficit and debt can be. 
Soon it will begin to have effects on interest rates, it will 
have effects on economic growth, and on stability." ST LOUIS FED PRESIDENT JAMES BULLARD, JUNE 11: "The probability of a very bad outcome from the financial 
crisis is receding and we've still got the low level of 
interest rates that we took out during that time period. I see 
there being some inflationary consequences of that if we don't 
take action and stay on top of this situation. "Policy can begin to address pressing inflationary concerns 
during the remainder of the year." * DALLAS FED PRESIDENT RICHARD FISHER, JUNE 10: "We want to make sure the message is clear ... that we will 
not countenance building inflationary expectations. "We are witnessing a negative feedback loop ... which is 
that a weaker dollar can lead to further inflationary pressures 
which in turn leads to a weaker dollar, et cetera, and to 
dampened economic activity." * FED CHAIRMAN BEN BERNANKE, JUNE 9: "Indeed, although activity during the current quarter is 
likely to be weak, the risk that the economy has entered a 
substantial downturn appears to have diminished over the past 
month or so ... the latest round of increases in energy prices 
has added to the upside risks to inflation and inflation 
expectations. The Federal Open Market Committee will strongly 
resist an erosion of longer-term inflation expectations, as an 
unanchoring of those expectations would be destabilizing for 
growth as well as for inflation." * NEW YORK FED PRESIDENT TIMOTHY GEITHNER, JUNE 9: "Shock absorbers held in normal times against bad 
macroeconomic and financial outcomes" needed to be increased, 
he wrote in an Op-Ed piece in the Financial Times entitled, "We 
can reduce risk in the financial system." "This will require more exacting expectations on capital, 
liquidity and risk management for the largest institutions that 
play a central role in intermediation and market functioning." ST LOUIS FED PRESIDENT JAMES BULLARD, JUNE 6: "Given the current economic environment and the outlook for 
the next 18 months, my view is that policy is appropriately 
calibrated at this time." "After a 10-month period in which the dominant policy 
concern has rightly been the state of financial markets, policy 
can begin to address pressing inflationary concerns during the 
remainder of the year." * FED BOARD GOVERNOR RANDALL KROSZNER, JUNE 6: "Strains continue to result in restrictive conditions for 
home-mortgage borrowers." "New originations are being held in lenders' portfolios, 
pressuring their balance sheets and, for example, leaving the 
spread between interest rates offered on jumbo and conforming 
mortgages very high." * PHILADELPHIA FED PRESIDENT CHARLES PLOSSER, JUNE 5: "Policy interventions in financial markets run the risks of 
increasing moral hazard and inhibiting efficient price 
discovery. Moreover, interventions intended to quell 
instability can, by creating moral hazard, actually make 
instability more severe in the long run." "Specifying in advance the conditions or states of the 
world under which the central bank will lend is an essential 
first step." * FED VICE CHAIRMAN DONALD KOHN, JUNE 5: "The housing market bottom isn't here yet. Prices are 
continuing to fall in many localities. As long as the housing 
market is on a downward path, there is a risk that the losses 
could continue to mount on a variety of loans." "I think we have a stronger set of investment banks than we 
had a month and a half ago." RICHMOND FED PRESIDENT JEFFREY LACKER, JUNE 5: "At the beginning of the year I was expecting perhaps a 
mild contraction, certainly sluggish growth, and saw a risk of 
a sharper contraction."  "As time has gone on, that risk of a sharper contraction 
has definitely receded in my mind. At the same time ... overall 
inflation has come in uncomfortably high. And so I think we are 
going to have some challenges going forward if overall 
inflation doesn't moderate in the months ahead." "The danger is that the effect of recent credit extension 
on the incentives of financial market participants might induce 
greater risk taking." This "in turn could give rise to more frequent crises, in 
which case it might be difficult to resist further expanding 
the scope of central bank lending."
 (Reporting by  Ros Krasny )