-- Instant View: Weekly jobless claims fall
-- 
-- Thu Jun 19, 2008 8:56am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/19/us-usa-economy-jobless-idUSN1933355120080619

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - The number of U.S. workers 
filing new claims for jobless benefits fell 5,000 last week, 
government data on Thursday showed, but a moving average of 
this volatile indicator moved up for a second week in a row. 

 
KEY POINTS: 
* Initial claims for state unemployment insurance benefits 
declined to a seasonally adjusted 381,000 in the week ended 
June 14, from a revised 386,000 the prior week, the Labor 
Department said. 
* Analysts polled by Reuters had forecast 375,000 new claims 
versus a previously reported count of 384,000 the week before. 
* A Labor Department official said there were no special 
factors influencing the report. 
* The four-week moving average of new jobless claims, a better 
gauge of underlying labor trends because it irons out 
week-to-week volatility, rose to 375,250 from 372,000 the week 
before to the highest reading since April. 
COMMENTS: 
PIERRE ELLIS, SENIOR GLOBAL ECONOMIST, DECISION ECONOMICS, NEW 
YORK: "It's a very mixed picture on the labor front. Layoffs may 
have drifted higher, but the number of people collecting 
unemployment fell. That could mean new hirings may have 
accelerated. This is overall neutral for the economy and the 
markets." "It doesn't mean strengthen or weakness. There is no big 
shock here. This may favor the Fed hawks because it indicates 
economic stability and less downside side risk. It helps make 
the case for (rate) tightening to contain inflation 
expectations. But that decision will not be made anytime 
soon." 
GARY THAYER, SENIOR ECONOMIST, WACHOVIA SECURITIES, ST. LOUIS, 
MISSOURI: "It looks as if the labor market is weak but not 
deteriorating sharply, which is somewhat bearish for bonds. The 
number was close to expectations, though clearly the labor 
market is not as strong as it was a year ago. If it weren't for 
the tax rebates, we would probably see consumers reining in 
spending, but fortunately the tax rebates are offsetting the 
weak labor market conditions at this point." 
STEPHEN MALYON, SENIOR CURRENCY STRATEGIST, SCOTIA CAPITAL, 
TORONTO: "Pretty close to consensus estimates although we did see a 
small dip in continuous claims. However, elevated initial 
filings are consistent with an ongoing deterioration in the 
U.S. job market underscoring the challenge facing the Federal 
Reserve amid elevated inflation. The rally on the dollar got a 
bit ahead of itself last week. Today's jobless claims support 
the view the Fed will remain on hold and should suppress U.S. 
dollar strength." 
MARKET REACTION: 
* BONDS: U.S. Treasury debt prices extended losses 
* CURRENCIES: U.S. dollar holds gains 
* STOCKS: U.S. equity index futures hit a session high