-- Microsoft and Yahoo trade barbs over talks breakdown
-- By  Kenneth Li  and  Eric Auchard
-- Mon Jul 14, 2008 8:08pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/15/columns-yahoo-microsoft-dc-idUSN1333386720080715

 

 NEW YORK/SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - Yahoo Inc ( YHOO.O ) and 
Microsoft Corp ( MSFT.O ) traded new accusations on Monday over 
the latest breakdown in deal talks, as the battle for control 
of Yahoo heated up ahead of an August 1 showdown. 

  Activist investor Carl Icahn, leading a proxy campaign to 
dump Yahoo's current management and board at the August 
shareholder meeting, blasted Yahoo for rejecting a joint 
proposal he made with Microsoft that he said contained enhanced 
protections to Yahoo and its investors.  All three parties were involved in talks on Friday on a new 
Microsoft offer to buy Yahoo's search business and take a 14 
percent stake in the Web pioneer if it agreed to shed its Asian 
assets and focus on its remaining businesses.  During the negotiations, according to Icahn, Microsoft 
Chief Executive Steve Ballmer said Yahoo's concerns over who 
would control the company were a distraction from the deal at 
hand. "'First, tell us if you like the deal,"' Icahn quoted 
Ballmer as saying.  "Microsoft and Mr. Icahn are trying to dismantle the 
company and deliver our search business to Microsoft on terms 
that would be disadvantageous to Yahoo stockholders," Yahoo 
Chairman Roy Bostock said of the latest Microsoft offer.  Yahoo turned down that offer Saturday night, complaining 
that it had only 24 hours to consider a deal it called 
financially inferior and more risky than its current business 
prospects and a search ad partnership with rival Google Inc 
( GOOG.O ).  Yahoo also said it was now open to a full-scale merger with 
Microsoft if it offered at least $33 a share.  Yahoo shares closed down $1, or 4.2 percent, to close at 
$22.57, while Microsoft shares fell 10 cents, or 0.4 percent, 
to close at $25.15, both on Nasdaq.  Sandeep Aggarwal, an Internet sector analyst with brokerage 
Collins Stewart, said investors are discounting the prospect of 
a full-scale Microsoft merger.  "What is becoming increasingly clear is that Microsoft's 
heart is set on Yahoo search," Aggarwal said.
  ULTIMATUM?  For its part, Microsoft said it made the new offer in 
response to a request for a new proposal from Bostock.  Microsoft denied it set a 24-hour ultimatum, saying it was 
seeking only a commitment by Yahoo to accept the framework and 
agree to a timeline to move to intensive talks.  Icahn said Microsoft's new offer provided assurances to 
Yahoo of $2.3 billion in annual search revenue for up to 10 
years, assuming Yahoo's audience remains intact and the parties 
agree to renew. Yahoo said the offer, with all of its 
conditions, would leave it at the mercy of Microsoft.  Icahn said Microsoft's offer valued Yahoo at $33 per share, 
which included a proposal for Microsoft to tender $3.9 billion 
for 14 percent of Yahoo.  The offer assumed Yahoo could realize $9 a share on its 
Asian assets, Microsoft would provide debt financing worth $2 a 
share, leaving around $16.73 for the remainder of Yahoo, Icahn 
said in a U.S. financial regulatory filing.  The latest proposal follows six months of on-again, 
off-again talks that started when Microsoft made an unsolicited 
$31-per-share cash-and-stock offer to buy Yahoo in late 
January. Microsoft then raised its offer to $33 per share, or 
$47.5 billion, before pulling that bid in May when Yahoo's 
leaders said they would not settle for less than $37 a share.  Icahn mocked Yahoo's current willingness to accept a 
Microsoft buyout of around $33 a share, after rejecting the 
same a few months back: "It is hard to understand why it 
(Yahoo) turned down $33 and is now willing to accept it."  "Within the past month, Yahoo's bargaining power has come 
down dramatically," Aggarwal said. "Clearly, from Yahoo's 
perspective, they were working on a certain set of wrong 
assumptions about Microsoft's willingness to buy it."  But Sanford C. Bernstein analyst Jeffrey Lindsay disagreed, 
saying the latest push by Microsoft and Icahn to reach a deal 
with Yahoo appeared to have been a long-shot attempt to reach a 
last-minute deal or, more likely, a way of gaining ammunition 
in its August 1 proxy vote.  Lindsay said Icahn and Microsoft may have overplayed their 
hand by giving Yahoo the chance to look reasonable by saying it 
was willing to sell the company for as little as $33.  While acting in concert with Microsoft, Icahn has failed to 
answer questions about whether he will have any serious 
negotiating power with Microsoft if he succeeds in removing 
Yahoo's board and Yang as CEO, the analyst said.  "For investors to get behind Icahn they have to be 
convinced that he has a credible alternative," Lindsay said.  Icahn, who controls about 5 percent of Yahoo shares, has 
nominated a slate of nine directors to replace Yahoo's board 
and oust CEO Jerry Yang on August 1.  Yang would remain at the company as "Chief Yahoo," 
according to Icahn, who also said he was open to discussing 
keeping a number of the current board members.  Yang co-founded the pioneering Web company in 1994 and held 
the irreverent executive-without-portfolio title until becoming 
CEO in 2007.  (Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe and  Andre Grenon )