-- Merrill board weighs O'Neal replacements: sources
-- By  Jennifer Ablan  and  Tim McLaughlin
-- Fri Oct 26, 2007 2:47pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/10/26/businesspro-merrilllynch-board-dc-idUSN2633205420071026

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Merrill Lynch & Co Inc's MER.N board 
is considering BlackRock Inc ( BLK.N ) Chief Executive Larry Fink 
and NYSE Euronext NYX.N CEO John Thain as possible 
replacements for embattled Merrill Chairman Stan O'Neal, 
according to people familiar with the situation. 

  Fink's candidacy has gathered steam because he is 
considered one of the top U.S. bond managers. He also is seen 
as someone who can remedy Merrill Lynch's fixed-income problems 
after the company wrote down $8.4 billion, mostly because of 
bad bets on subprime loans and collateralized debt obligations.  Another possible contender is Robert McCann, president of 
Merrill's global private client business, according to people 
familiar with the situation.  McCann, in charge of Merrill's army of 16,610 brokers, is 
insulated from the turmoil dogging O'Neal. Revenue at his 
division, Merrill Global Private Client, surged 23 percent to 
$3.3 billion in the third quarter. And a flood of $26 billion 
in net new client assets made for the division's strongest 
quarter in more than six years.  Thain has a blue-chip Wall Street resume, with credentials 
sharpened by running the NYSE and his time as a former 
co-president at Goldman Sachs Group Inc ( GS.N ).  A spokeswoman for BlackRock, an asset manager in which 
Merrill holds a large stake, declined to comment, saying the 
company does not comment on market speculation and rumors. The 
NYSE also declined comment.  Speculation that O'Neal would be ousted -- as early as this 
weekend, according to CNBC Television -- lifted Merrill shares 
$4.42 or 7.3 percent to $65.32 in afternoon trading on the New 
York Stock Exchange. The stock is down over 29 percent this 
year.  O'Neal's grip on the firm weakened after the company 
announced on Wednesday that it wrote down $8.4 billion and 
posted the biggest quarterly loss in the company's history in 
the third quarter.  Analysts say they've lost confidence in Merrill Lynch's 
risk management, and O'Neal admitted this week he had misjudged 
the company's exposure to subprime mortgages.  And on Friday, the New York Times reported that O'Neal had 
floated a merger proposal with Wachovia Corp WB.N before 
informing Merrill Lynch's board, angering some members.  The paper said Greg Fleming, Merrill's co-president and 
star investment banker, had helped make the overture, a move 
that could hurt his chances of rising in the company.  Merrill Lynch declined to comment.  In Merrill's last proxy filing, the company estimated that 
O'Neal would receive a $221.8 million compensation package if 
the company were acquired, causing O'Neal to no longer serve as 
top executive.  At a company-wide meeting on Wednesday, some Merrill 
employees told O'Neal they were worried that the company's 
credit woes would hurt their pay and jeopardize their jobs.  Merrill employees, on average, are on track to be the worst 
paid on Wall Street this year, according to top investment 
banks' results for the first three quarters.  "A whole bunch of people are working hard to get him fired 
at the moment," said Dick Bove, an analyst at Punk Ziegel & Co. 
"I think that's clear. Whether they are going to be successful 
in that is really hard to say."  (Additional reporting by  Mark McSherry ,  Dan Wilchins , 
Jonathan Stempel and  Anupreeta Das  in New York, editing by 
Brian Moss and Gerald E. McCormick)