-- New Orleans is `Back' From Hurricane Katrina's Devastation, Officials Say
-- Jim Snyder
-- 2010-08-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-27/new-orleans-rebounding-five-years-after-katrina-leaders-say.html

          
          
             While still plagued by high crime
and poverty rates, New Orleans is rebounding strongly from
Hurricane Katrina’s devastation and moving toward better race
relations among its residents, two civic and educational leaders
said.  
 In an interview for Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend, the fifth
anniversary of the hurricane,  Tulane University  President  Scott Cowen  said he was “more optimistic” about the city’s future
than he has ever been.  
 “I think we’re moving from recovery to renewal and quite
honestly inventing a new  city  for the 21st century,” Cowen
said.  
 “We are back, number 1,” said  Norman Francis , president
of  Xavier University  and former director of the Louisiana
Recovery Authority. “Number 2, we are making great progress.
And number 3, we’re not yet where we want to be, but we’re going
to get there.” Xavier is the nation’s only Catholic
historically black college.  
 Tulane is itself an example of the renewal. Its main campus
in the city’s uptown was 70 percent under water after Katrina.
This year the school received more than 44,000 applications,
more than any other private school in the country.  
 Among the hopeful signs cited by the two officials is
improving relations in a city that has been divided along racial
lines.  
 “I think that race relations down here are stronger and
better and in many ways more constructive than what I’ve seen in
other places,” said Cowen, who was brought up in the Northeast.  
 Landrieu’s Election  
 As evidence, Francis pointed to the election in February of
 Mitch Landrieu  as the city’s first white mayor since his father,
Moon, held the position in 1978.  
 Landrieu replaced  Ray Nagin , who couldn’t seek re-election
because of term limits. Nagin once declared that New Orleans
would be a “chocolate city” again as black residents who left
after the hurricane returned to the city, a comment that angered
some white residents.  
 “It wasn’t the white mayor we were electing per se. We
were electing someone who the population felt would give
leadership,” Francis said. “It did not matter the gender. It
did not matter the race or religious background.”  
 Another good sign was the New Orleans Saints’ victory in
the 2010 Super Bowl, he said.  
 “This was a win that brought New Orleans closer together
than I have ever seen it,” Francis said.  
 The  Brookings Institution ’s “The New Orleans Index at
Five” laid out hopeful signs and challenges that remain.  
 Population Returning  
 More than 90 percent of the metropolitan area population
and 85 percent of the jobs had returned by June 2010, it said.
The city has experienced less job loss than the national average
during the recession and median income levels are up.  
 The poverty rate remains high, at 23 percent, compared with
13 percent nationally, and crime is “well above national
rates,” the report said. Many homes remain blighted, and the
line between income levels remains high. Black and Hispanic
households earn incomes that are 44 percent and 25 percent lower
than whites, according to Brookings.  
 And while the city’s population has largely come back, many
residents of the historically black Lower Ninth Ward haven’t.  
 “It is a disappointment because the people who could least
afford to be damaged, if you will, by anything and then with a
disaster like Katrina are the ones who have paid a great
price,” said Francis, who in 2006 was awarded the presidential
Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian honor.  
 “When Katrina hit, they lost everything,” he said.  
 Among the biggest challenges to the city’s progress is its
historically underperforming school system. More than 42 percent
of the city schools failed to meet state standards, according to
Brookings.  
 ‘Right Direction’  
 Cowen said the city’s schools are “headed in the right
direction,” saying that as many as 65 percent failed to meet
state standards only a few years earlier.  
 The Federal Emergency Management Agency recently gave New
Orleans $1.8 billion for school construction and renovation.  
 Cowen said the federal government still owes the city
hundreds of millions more dollars. One source of money, the
economic stimulus, will soon dry up.  
 “It is going to take a generation to get there. It cannot
be done overnight,” Cowen said.  
 Meanwhile, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is nearing
completion of a major reconstruction of the city’s levees, whose
failure led to the massive flooding, giving additional hope to
the two leaders.  
 “I think we are definitely better prepared,” Cowen said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        