-- Pfizer Said to Pay $330 Million to Settle Prempro Lawsuits Claiming Cancer
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2011-02-09T21:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-27/pfizer-settles-arkansas-prempro-case-before-retrial-over-punitive-damages.html
  Pfizer Inc . agreed to pay about $330
million to resolve claims that its Prempro menopause drug caused
breast cancer, in the first large-scale settlements in eight
years of litigation, two people familiar with the accords said.  Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, will settle more
than 2,200 lawsuits alleging the company’s Wyeth unit hid
Prempro’s cancer risks, the people said. They spoke on the
condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak
publicly about the accords. The cases settled for an average of
about $150,000, the people said.  “The reported settlement terms are not accurate and beyond
that, we do not comment on our litigation strategy,” Chris Loder, a spokesman for New York-based Pfizer, said in a
telephone interview today.  The settlements may be a signal that Pfizer is moving to
resolve long-standing litigation issues as part of its recent
management change, said  Les Funtleyder , a  fund manager  at Miller
Tabak & Co. in  New York  who follows the pharmaceutical industry.
Ian Read replaced Jeffrey Kindler as Pfizer’s chief executive
officer in December.  The hormone-replacement therapy “litigation has been going
on for a long time,” Funtleyder said in a Feb. 4 interview.
“The new management may be interested in clearing out these old
issues and moving forward.”  Pfizer fell 11 cents to $19.05 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading after dropping as much as 1.6 percent earlier
in the day. The shares have risen 8.8 percent this year.  6 Million Users  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms such as hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer.
Wyeth’s sales of the medicines, which are still on the market,
exceeded $2 billion before the release of the  Women’s Health
Initiative , a National Institutes of Health-sponsored study.  Until 1995, many menopausal women combined Premarin,
Wyeth’s estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden Provera, made
by Pfizer’s Upjohn unit, to relieve their symptoms. Wyeth
combined the two hormones in its Prempro pill. Pfizer completed
its $68 billion purchase of Wyeth in 2009.  The drugmaker faced more than 10,000 claims that its
menopause drugs caused  breast cancer  prior the settlements,
which were reached during the past five months, the people said.
That number included more than 8,000 cases consolidated in
federal court in Arkansas and other cases in state courts in
 Pennsylvania , Nevada and  Minnesota .  Arkansas Court  The cases were gathered together before U.S. District Judge
Billy Roy Wilson in Little Rock, Arkansas, in 2003 for pre-trial
information exchanges before trial.  Pfizer officials said in a statement last month that Wilson
recently handed down a ruling that may knock out a number of
suits filed by women who took Prempro for less than three years.  The Women’s Health Initiative study found that women who
took Prempro for more than five years faced an increased risk of
breast cancer, heart attack and stroke. Plaintiffs’ lawyers had
argued that other studies showed women who took the pills for
three years or less also were at risk for those ailments.  Pfizer’s Wyeth and Upjohn units have lost eight of the 15
Prempro cases decided by juries since trials began in 2006. The
drugmaker got some of the verdicts thrown out after trial or had
the awards cut. The company has appealed its losses. Wyeth also
has won dismissals of more than 3,000 cases prior to trial.  The company resolved a handful of cases before the recent
wave of settlements, including an Arkansas woman’s claims that
Prempro caused her breast cancer. In 2008, an Arkansas jury
ordered Wyeth to pay a total of $29.8 million to Donna Scroggin
over her injuries linked to the drug.  Settlement Talks  An appeals court ordered a new trial and the drugmaker
settled the case before it began. Terms of the agreement weren’t
made public.  Earlier this week, a  Pennsylvania  appeals court ordered
Pfizer to pay more than $10 million in damages to a woman who
blamed her cancer on Prempro after it reinstated a 2007 verdict
against the drugmaker.  Pfizer’s attorneys began negotiating with lawyers
representing former Prempro users last summer to resolve their
inventories of cases, the people familiar with the settlements
said.  Sheila Burnbaum , a lawyer at New York’s Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, led Pfizer’s negotiating team, the
people said.  Plaintiffs’ lawyers who settled their Prempro cases include
 Robert Schwartz , of Bailey & Galyen in Houston;  James A. Morris
Jr. , a sole practitioner in Austin,  Texas ;  Stephen A. Corr  of
 Mellon Webster & Shelly  in Doylestown, Pennsylvania; and  Stuart
Calwell  of the Calwell Practice PLLC in Charleston,  West
Virginia , the people said.    Florida  Trial  Schwartz declined to comment on the settlements in a
telephone interview. Corr, Calwell and Morris didn’t immediately
return calls for comment.  The majority of the cases settled had been consolidated in
federal court in  Arkansas , the people familiar with the accords
said. A judge in state court in Philadelphia last month said
that about 450 cases in her court had been settled by the
company, the people said.  Pfizer is scheduled to face its next Prempro trial in April
in state court in Florida. The family of Loretta Esposito blames
the drug for her fatal breast cancer and contends Wyeth
officials sold Prempro knowing it posed an increased risk of the
disease.  Miller Tabak’s Funtleyder said Pfizer officials may seek to
negotiate other Prempro settlements to put an end to the five-
year run of trials over the drug.  “It’s really important they get rid of all these
litigation issues so they can move forward with their
strategy,” he said.  The consolidated case in Arkansas is In Re Prempro
Products, 03-CV-015070-WRW, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Arkansas (Little Rock). The Scroggin case is
Scroggin v. Wyeth, 04-1169, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Arkansas   Little Rock ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 