-- Stanford Asks U.S. Judge to Dismiss Fraud Charges
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2010-10-04T22:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-27/stanford-committed-no-ponzi-scheme-former-federal-prosecutor-testifies.html
R. Allen Stanford , the Texas
financier accused of leading a $7 billion investment fraud,
asked a federal judge in Houston to dismiss all charges against
him because of “defects” in the government’s case.  Prosecutors “acted in concert” with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and a court-appointed receiver to strip
Stanford of his ability to defend himself, he said today in
court filings.  The government is using receiver  Ralph Janvey ’s “army of
private lawyers, forensic accountants and other consultants,”
funded through the liquidation of Stanford’s multibillion-dollar
estate, to prepare the criminal case against him, Stanford’s
lawyers said.  Stanford’s constitutional rights to due process were
“clearly violated as shown by the demonstrable proof that the
receiver acted as an arm and agent of the prosecution in the
receiver’s repeated practice of searching, seizing and then
providing to the government the fruits” of his investigation,
while paying for the effort by liquidating Stanford’s assets,
said his lawyer,  Robert S. Bennett , in the filings.  Stanford, 60, and three former executives of the Stanford
Financial Group Cos. were indicted in June 2009 by a federal
grand jury in Houston. Stanford, who has denied wrongdoing in
both the criminal case and an SEC lawsuit, is scheduled to stand
trial alone in January. In August 2009, Stanford Group Chief
Financial Officer  James M. Davis , who was charged in a separate
case, pleaded guilty to aiding the scheme.  21 Charges  Stanford and his co-defendants face 21 criminal charges
that they swindled investors through the sale of certificates of
deposit issued by Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  Stanford today asked that his indictment be thrown out and
that all evidence the government has obtained through Janvey be
suppressed.  Stanford and his colleagues are fighting in a separate
action to obtain insurance proceeds to hire defense attorneys,
which they claim they can’t afford since all their assets were
frozen by court order when U.S. securities regulators seized
Stanford’s businesses on suspicion of fraud in February 2009.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on Stanford’s filing, citing a judge’s order not to
discuss the case publically.  Receiver’s Bill  Janvey has billed $45 million for his work on Stanford’s
estate through the end of September, including $185,000 in April
responding to inquiries by prosecutors, securities regulators,
tax authorities and state agencies, Bennett said in the filings.  An analysis of Janvey’s billing records by the Brewer Law
Group, which is defending Stanford in the SEC case, found that
Janvey and his team have spent 1,198 hours assisting the FBI,
1,031 hours aiding the Justice Department and 3,977 additional
hours assisting other government entities investigating and
prosecuting Stanford, according to the filing.  Bennett asked for a hearing into “the extent to which the
government has controlled, supervised, coordinated with or
instructed” Janvey and other receivers to conduct criminal
investigations in Stanford’s case and in other prosecutions.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 