-- UPDATE 3-MGM Mirage 3rd-quarter profit rises 68 pct
-- 
-- Thu Nov 2, 2006 1:57pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/02/leisure-mgmmirage-earns-idUSN0247074120061102

 

  (Adds company comments, updates stock price) 

  By Deena Beasley LOS ANGELES  Nov 2 (Reuters) - MGM Mirage Inc. ( MGM.N ), the
world's No. 2 casino operator, on Thursday said third-quarter
profit rose a better-than-expected 68 percent on strong Las
Vegas resort business and condominium sales.  "Sales were pretty strong in the Las Vegas region. Even
more important, margins improved," said James Hardiman, an
analyst at FTN Midwest Securities Corp.  Net income rose to $156.3 million, or 54 cents a share,
from $93.2 million, or 31 cents a share, a year earlier.  Excluding a one-time tax gain, Las Vegas-based MGM earned
52 cents a share, far above the average Wall Street estimate of
41 cents a share as compiled by Reuters Estimates.  Revenue rose 5.6 percent to $1.9 billion.  "Trends in the high-end segment remain strong ... We expect
to see continuing strength into New Year's," said Chief
Executive Terry Lanni.  He also said business from MGM's mid-level and economy
customers has picked up speed, possibly because gasoline prices
have moderated from the record levels seen a few months ago.  "Our first look at MGM's third-quarter (earnings) and
fourth-quarter outlook is that Vegas operations are excellent,"
JP Morgan analyst Harry Curtis said in a research note.  MGM, which acquired Mandalay Resort Group in April 2005,
said it expects net earnings of 40 to 45 cents per share in the
fourth quarter. Analysts' average estimate is 48 cents.  Hardiman said MGM's forecast likely equates to a range of
42 to 47 cents a share after adding some costs back in.  "That's a little beneath what I was looking for ... but
their guidance for the third quarter was 42 cents and they just
blew past that," he said.  Curtis attributed the gap between the company forecast and
Wall Street expectations to discontinued operations and condo
sale proceeds. "Adjusting for these, MGM's guidance is likely 3
cents to 8 cents a share above the Street on a continuing
basis," he said  GAMING REVENUE UP  MGM said third-quarter gaming revenue at casinos open at
least a year rose 5 percent, helped by strong sales from slot
machines and high-end table games.  In Las Vegas, slot revenue rose 15 percent at the Bellagio,
17 percent at Treasure Island and 12 percent at the MGM Grand,
Lanni said.  Same-store revenue per available room, a key measure of
hotel performance, rose 5.5 percent at the Las Vegas Strip
properties.  In addition to its Nevada operations, MGM owns a casino in
Detroit and has a joint venture with Boyd Gaming Corp. ( BYD.N ),
the Borgata hotel-casino, in Atlantic City, New Jersey.  At the end of August, MGM reopened its Beau Rivage casino
in Biloxi, Mississippi, which had been closed since last year's
Hurricane Katrina.  MGM said Beau Rivage earned $16 million before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization during the 33 days it was
open in the third quarter, compared with $12 million in the
year-earlier period, when it was open for two months.  MGM is constructing its 66-acre Las Vegas CityCenter
project, which has an estimated budget of $4 billion, including
proceeds of $3 billion from the sale of condominiums.  The massive project, along with others planned by companies
including Boyd Gaming, Wynn Resorts Ltd. ( WYNN.O ) and Las Vegas
Sands Inc. ( LVS.N ), has led to concerns about potential
oversupply on the Las Vegas Strip.  But Hardiman said: "The rumors of saturation on the Strip
are highly overrated." He said that between now and late next
year, supply will actually contract as properties like the
Stardust, which is being demolished to make way for Boyd's
Echelon Place, are closed.  Longer-term, "supply growth looks normal and demand looks
like it is in great shape," he said.  Overseas, MGM has a joint venture to build a casino in the
Chinese gambling enclave of Macau that is expected to open late
next year.  MGM shares were up 69 cents or 1.6 percent at $43.50 in
afternoon trade on the New York Stock Exchange. Year-to-date,
the stock is up 16.3 percent, compared with a gain of about 23
percent for the Dow Jones U.S. Gambling Index.
 (Additional reporting by  Paritosh Bansal  in New York)









