-- Citi offering signals more trouble ahead: analysts
-- By  Dan Wilchins
-- Wed Apr 30, 2008 7:00pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/04/30/businesspro-citi-capital-dc-idUSN3055108120080430

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Investors fear that Citigroup Inc's 
( C.N ) sale of $4.5 billion of shares, combined with a $6 
billion preferred stock sale last week, signal the bank is 
likely to face more write-downs in the future and may need to 
raise even more capital. 

  Citigroup management has shifted from believing it was 
essentially done raising new capital to signaling it is 
interested in raising more, analysts say.  That willingness to raise more money is a warning sign to 
some investors, because companies are typically reluctant to 
issue equity capital, which can be dilutive and boost dividend 
obligations.  "It looks like they're trying to stop the bleeding and they 
just can't seem to do it," said Ralph Cole, portfolio manager 
at Ferguson Wellman Capital Management in Portland, Oregon.  Mike Hanretta, a spokesman for Citigroup said: "we are 
strongly capitalized."  But some analysts disagree. Meredith Whitney, analyst at 
Oppenheimer & Co, said the bank needs another $10 billion to 
$15 billion of capital. Her note came out before Citi's stock 
deal was boosted from $3 billion to $4.5 billion.  Whitney also believes Citi may cut its dividend, which 
costs the bank about $6.5 billion a year, for the second time 
this year.  The recent bout of preferred and common equity offerings -- 
one of a series by capital-starved financial institutions 
worldwide -- leave Citi with a Tier 1 capital ratio of about 
8.6 percent, based on March 31 balance sheet figures. That 
beats the 7.7 percent level it had before the capital raising, 
and is above the bank's target of 7.5 percent.  A person briefed in the matter said Citi needed to sell 
common stock after selling $6 billion of preferred shares last 
week. To get full credit from regulators for that offering in 
"Tier 1 capital," a measure of core capital, Citi needed a 
higher proportion of common equity in its capital structure.
  HOUSING DETERIORATING  Citi's share offering could be increased to $4.95 billion 
to meet demand, leaving the company with even more capital. But 
even with new capital, many investors are concerned about what 
the future holds for Citi.  There have been several recent signs the macro-economic 
environment, which weighs on big banks like Citi could further 
depress the value of subprime mortgage and other assets on its 
books, could worsen further.  The U.S. housing market, which has driven the more than 
$300 billion of write-downs at financial institutions globally, 
shows signs of getting worse. The Standard & Poor's/Case 
Shiller home price index is down 15.8 percent from its peak in 
June 2006 through February, a report said on Tuesday.  The Bank of Japan on Wednesday switched from saying it was 
more inclined to raise rates to warning about the risks of 
economic slowing, warning that a faltering U.S. economy has 
curbed Japanese exports.  The Federal Reserve cut rates on Wednesday and said that 
economic activity remains weak-consumer and business spending 
are subdued, labor markets are softening and financial markets 
remain under stress.  "Until the housing market stabilizes, which it hasn't done, 
you aren't going to have a clue about how bad it will be and we 
could see Citi and a lot of other banks coming back to the 
capital markets," said Jim Huguet, co-chief executive at Great 
Companies, which does not own Citi shares.  (Editing by  Andre Grenon )