-- BlackRock's Bob Doll sees end of Fed rate cuts
-- 
-- Wed Apr 30, 2008 6:20pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/04/30/businesspro-usa-markets-blackrock-dc-idUSN3054717820080430

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve is likely done 
with its series of interest-rate cuts that began in September, 
as financial market conditions have improved considerably and 
economic growth isn't deteriorating further, said Bob Doll, 
global chief investment officer of equities at money manager 
BlackRock Inc ( BLK.N ). 

  "Fed policy-makers certainly put language in there whereby 
they can stop lowering rates," Doll told Reuters in an 
interview on Wednesday, following the Fed's statement at the 
end of its policy meeting. BlackRock, which manages about $1.1 
trillion in assets, is one of the world's largest publicly 
traded investment management firms.  "They are going to watch everything, but I think the fact 
that the two-year note and fed funds are not far from one 
another tells us that they might be done," Doll added.  Wednesday, the Fed lowered U.S. interest rates by a modest 
quarter percentage point to 2 percent, the lowest since 
December 2004, hinting the move could be the last in a series 
to buffer the economy from a credit crunch and housing 
downturn.  Doll said the Dow Jones industrial average  .DJI  came off 
triple-digit gains after the Fed meeting because "the markets 
have come a long way in a short period of time -- up almost 10 
percent from the March 17 low -- and it's just looking a little 
tired. The markets wanted to do a little profit-taking," he 
said.  In addition, "Perhaps the markets are disappointed that the 
Fed didn't go a little further, moving a little more toward 
neutral and talking a little more about inflation, giving the 
dollar a chance to rally a little bit more," he said.  All told, Doll said his balanced portfolios have more 
exposure to equities because Corporate America's fundamentals 
aren't so bad. "If March 17 was the stock-market's bottom, and 
we think it was, it doesn't mean it's a straight line up. We 
can sell off 3 to 5 percent at any point in time. What's wrong 
with that?"  (Reporting by  Jennifer Ablan  in New York; Editing by Leslie 
Adler)