-- Jobs Still Trashing U.S. Recovery Party: David G. Blanchflower
-- David G. Blanchflower
-- 2009-12-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-10/jobs-still-trashing-u-s-recovery-party-david-g-blanchflower.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  held a jobs
summit last week. It surely was a coincidence that  unemployment 
figures released the day after showed the U.S. jobless rate fell
in November.  
 True, unemployment did decline in July too, but only to
increase in August, September and October. My suspicion is that
this time, unemployment is close to its peak, and this is the
beginning of a long, but slow, improvement in the labor market.  
 The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
is forecasting that unemployment in the U.S. will peak in the
first quarter of 2010 but won’t fall below 9 percent until the
fourth quarter of 2011. This seems about right.  
 Also encouraging was evidence that the pace of job losses
had slowed. But this should be tempered by the fact that there
is little evidence of job creation. Employment still is falling
in manufacturing and construction. The main sectors where job
growth is occurring are health care and temporary-help services.
Not much, but it’s a start and the best news in the U.S. labor
market since the spring of 2007.  
 Looking for Leaders  
 To be convinced that a decent recovery is established, I’m
looking for strong job growth in some sectors -- a construction-
led boom, for example, would see the number of construction
workers growing. To this point it is unclear which industries
are likely to lead a recovery. It’s hard to see financial
services or construction being among them.  
 The decline in economic output has been 4 percent in the
U.S. from peak to trough, compared with 14 percent in Ireland,
10 percent in Japan, 8 percent in Sweden, 8 percent in Germany
and 6 percent in the U.K. In the cases of Japan and Germany,
greater dependence on exports has hurt output. The run-up in
housing prices was more pronounced in Ireland, Spain and the
U.K. than in the U.S.  
 In spite of these output numbers, the U.S. has few rivals
in terms of the recession’s impact on jobs. Among OECD members,
the U.S. had the third-largest increase in unemployment, 5.8
percentage points to its October peak of 10.2 percent, behind
only Spain (11.4 percentage points) and Ireland (8.5 percentage
points). By contrast, the unemployment rate has risen by just
0.4 percentage points in Germany, 1.6 percentage points in Japan
and 2.7 percentage points in the U.K.  
 Government Response  
 These differences are influenced by when countries entered
recession, and by how their governments have responded.  
 Wage subsidies have been introduced in Germany, France,
Italy and Spain to slow the increase in unemployment. The use of
short-time work -- cutting employee hours rather than jobs, with
the government making up for some of the reduced salary -- or
temporary layoffs has helped to lower unemployment in Belgium,
France, Germany and Denmark. The U.S. and U.K. have resisted
such measures.  
 In the U.K., the third quarter of 2009 was the sixth
consecutive  quarter  of negative growth. There is some hope that
the fourth quarter will be positive based on stronger
construction data, but recently published data showed that
industrial output failed to grow at all in October.  
 Stimulus a Factor  
 Economic stimulus seems to be a factor in the pace of
recovery around the globe. A  recent study  by the White House
Council of Economic Advisers found that countries such as
Australia, Korea and Japan that injected larger amounts of
stimulus funds into the economy saw better performance in gross
domestic product. The study found that for every 1 percent of
GDP in stimulus money, countries grew roughly 2 percentage
points faster.  
 Australia, Korea and Japan, along with France and Germany,
have seen at least two quarters of positive growth. The
Australian central bank has even started raising interest rates.  
 Unemployment hurts, and not just the unemployed. The
empirical evidence from around the world  suggests  that in normal
times, a 1 percentage point increase in unemployment has twice
the effect on happiness as a 1 percentage point increase in
inflation. In these deflationary times, an increase in inflation
may well raise our happiness rather than lower it. So the
central goal of economic policy right now should be to create
jobs.  
 I tend to agree with  Christina Romer , chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers, who said in September that “of
course we should be planning for the time when private demand
has recovered and government-stimulated demand can be withdrawn.
But to talk seriously about stopping policy support at a time
when the unemployment rate is nearing 10 percent and still
rising is to risk nipping the nascent recovery in the bud.”  
 There has been some improvement in economic conditions
since September. Governments need to keep the stimulus going. It
is all about jobs.  
 ( David G. Blanchflower , a former member of the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee, is professor of economics
at Dartmouth College and the University of Stirling. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Blanchflower at  david.g.blanchflower@dartmouth.edu   
          
          


  


        