-- Airlines Can't Stop Snow, So Shut Up and Adapt: Doug Sweet
-- B y   D o u g   S w e e t
-- 2010-12-31T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-31/airlines-can-t-stop-snow-so-shut-up-and-adapt-commentary-by-doug-sweet.html
As a very frequent traveler, I get
tired of hearing the once-a-year airline passenger complaining
about the hassle of flying, and how it’s all the fault of
airlines. With air travel, a little common sense goes a long way.  My daughter and son-in-law were among those stranded in
snowed-in  New York City  this week. They were to return to their
home here in Birmingham,  Alabama , on Sunday. They finally
arrived on Wednesday.  Rather than subject themselves to the mass campout at
LaGuardia Airport, they made plans to stay with my son-in-law’s
aunt in  Brooklyn  when they realized the storm was coming. My
daughter sought and got telephone and e-mail updates from Delta
Air Lines about her flight status and cancellations. She booked
these flights herself -- without any platinum or gold
memberships in this or that -- so she was the average traveler,
just a bit smarter.  A year ago, I was among the delayed travelers when another
big snowstorm hit New York City, a week before Christmas. Our
party of eight -- which included my wife, her sister, our
daughter and four of our friends -- was scheduled to return home
on Dec. 19. At first, Delta rescheduled us for one day later,
Dec. 20. When we were rescheduled a second time, for Dec. 25 at
4 p.m., we decided it was time for Plan B.  I called Hertz and reserved two cars, and we made the 800-
mile drive home. It was kind of fun.  No Surprise  This week, while traveling, I met a woman who told me she
had gone to LaGuardia on Sunday and only then had found out that
her flight was canceled. She camped at the airport for two days.
The blizzard forecast was all over the news, so what did she
expect?  I wonder whether the third-party Internet options for
booking air travel these days make it harder for people to
manage their flight plans and make changes when necessary. For
my money and peace of mind, booking through the airline is best.
Most airlines at least claim to guarantee lowest fares when
booking directly.  Also, trying to stick with one airline, rather than
shopping around for an itinerary that uses two or more airlines,
gives even the infrequent traveler a little expertise. Go ahead
and register for the frequent-flyer program so they know who you
are. That’s why my daughter was getting phone calls and e-mail
messages about cancellations well ahead of her intended
departure.  Good Prices  Online booking has contributed to the low fares everyone is
enjoying. Each carrier knows what the other charges and will
reduce a ticket price by $1 if that moves it to the top of the
list. Fifteen years ago, when I was traveling to New York City
airports every other month, the fare was $900, no matter when I
made the reservation and which airport I used. Recently I’ve
paid $200 to $400 for the same flight, on the same airline.  Reduced fares, of course, have also meant reduced services,
and that seems to include the capacity of airlines to deal with
these rare problems. And the travel experience itself now
resembles that on buses. But the planes are packed and the
airlines are finally making some money.  Next time you’re in an airport, look at all of the families
traveling. I travel by air more than 25 times each year --
that’s more than 100 individual flights, counting connections --
and my travel continued throughout the recession. The airports
and planes were still full. I would get back home each week and
tell my wife there was no recession in the sky.  So I don’t have a lot of pity for the so-called hassled
passenger.  Thankful Traveler  During Thanksgiving the travel disaster du jour was
supposed to be the security delays caused by fussing over full-
body scanning. It never happened. I traveled the week before
Thanksgiving, and again on the following Tuesday, with no
problems, with on-time flights, and with no lost luggage.  I was delayed for five hours once at Los Angeles
International Airport during one of the many security scares
over suspected bombs. I reminded myself that the hassle I was
experiencing was nothing compared with what people in the World
Trade Center towers faced on 9/11, deciding whether to be burned
to death or to jump to their death.  The 9/11 attacks ramped up all this security, and
personally, I appreciate it. I don’t recall any more hijacked
jets being crashed into office buildings since then.  ( Doug Sweet  is an engineer and consultant who specializes
in production processes at paper mills. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 dougsweet@cs.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  