-- Malaysia Declares Holiday After Soccer Victory, Shrugging Off Cheat Claims
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2010-12-31T03:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-31/malaysia-declares-holiday-after-soccer-victory-shrugging-off-cheat-claims.html
Malaysians began celebrating the new
year early after Prime Minister Najib Razak declared Friday a
public holiday to mark what he described in a statement as “the
greatest night in Malaysian football.”  Malaysia beat Indonesia 4-2 in total in the Asean Football
Federation Suzuki Cup final, the first time it has won Southeast
Asia’s premier soccer tournament. While its players returned
home yesterday as heroes, Malaysian fans were criticized.  The second-leg of final was played amid heightened security
in Jakarta on Dec. 29 after match officials reprimanded
Malaysian fans for allegedly pointing lights from laser pens
into Indonesian players’ eyes during the first leg in Kuala
Lumpur three days earlier. Fearing revenge attacks, a 10,000-
strong police force was deployed and lasers and firecrackers
banned from the Bung Karno Stadium, the Star newspaper reported.  Ahead of the game, insults and hate messages were exchanged
online, with Indonesia supporters accusing their Malaysian
counterparts of cheating by deliberately distracting their
players. Within hours of the first leg,  “Hate Malaysia”  was
among the world’s top trending topics on Twitter.  The two countries, both members of the Association of
Southeast Asian nations and close trading partners, are
traditional rivals, not just in sports. Periodic diplomatic
spats range from culture and forest fires to territorial
disputes and the treatment of maids. Three Indonesians were
arrested after a group of demonstrators threw human faeces at
Malaysia’s embassy in Jakarta in August.  Malaysia won the first leg 3-0, with all three goals coming
after officials clamped down on the lasers after Indonesia’s
goalkeeper and another player complained. Indonesia, with a
population of 253 million people, compared with Malaysia’s 28
million, won the second leg 2-1, but lost on aggregate.  Malaysian officials were booed when they came out to
inspect the pitch ahead of the final leg, Associated Press
reported today. The match took place without violence.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Collins in Hong Kong at 
 collinsc@bloomberg.net . 