-- Cameron Says Job Creation Must Be Focus for U.K.'s Economy in New Year
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2010-12-31T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-31/cameron-says-job-creation-must-be-focus-for-u-k-s-economy-in-the-new-year.html
Prime Minister David Cameron said he
wants to bring about “a new economic dynamism” in Britain next
year to help create private-sector jobs to replace those lost as
the government slashes public spending.  “Uppermost in my mind as we enter the New Year is jobs,”
Cameron said in a taped message released today, according to a
text provided by his office in London. “Small and growing
businesses will be our most important job creators, and I want
us to look at all the reasons why people find it hard to start a
business and all the barriers that stop a small business growing
and really get tough with ourselves in addressing them.”  The prime minister said there was no alternative to the
government’s deficit-reduction program, rejecting the argument
made by Ed Miliband, the leader of the opposition Labour Party,
in his New Year message yesterday that the pace of the cuts --
the biggest budget squeeze since World War II involving the loss
of 330,000 public-sector jobs -- should be slowed or families
throughout Britain would bear the consequences.  “We have a credible plan for restoring confidence in our
economy, but we have to see it through,” Cameron said. “A lot
of the heavy lifting will happen in 2011. Each and every
minister in this government is acutely aware that the plans we
have in place are tough, in fact incredibly difficult, but we
are clear that the alternative -- indecision and delay -- would
mean taking unacceptable risks with our economy, our country and
our people.”  London Riots  The spending cuts by the coalition government of Cameron’s
Conservatives and Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg’s Liberal
Democrats have cast a shadow over the prospects for the economy,
with consumer confidence falling to a 20-month low last month. A
parliamentary vote to allow universities to triple student
tuition fees led to rioting in central London.  Miliband said yesterday that “the scale, pace and
targeting of these changes is not just wrong, it holds us back
from answering the bigger economic challenges we face: about
where the jobs of the future are going to come from and how can
we create an economy which works for all.”  The head of the Trades Union Congress, the umbrella labor
organization, said 2011 “is going to be a horrible year” as
benefit cuts take effect.  The  final YouGov Plc poll this year  for The Sun newspaper
put Labour support at 41 percent, 2 percentage points ahead of
the Conservatives, with the Liberal Democrats at 9 percent, less
than half their share of the vote in May. The poll was carried
out Dec. 22-23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in Berlin at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  