-- Centrica's Carr, BA's Broughton, Eurythmics' Lennox Awarded U.K. Honors
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-12-31T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-31/centrica-s-carr-ba-s-broughton-eurythmics-lennox-awarded-u-k-honors.html
  Centrica Plc  Chairman Roger Carr and
his counterpart at  British Airways Plc , Martin Broughton, won
U.K. honors in a list that also included an award for Eurythmics
singer Annie Lennox.    Credit Suisse Group AG ’s Philip Remnant, former Lloyds TSB
Group Plc Chief Executive Officer Peter Ellwood and actors David Suchet and  Sheila Hancock  are also among the 997 people granted
civic honors in today’s biannual awards, the Cabinet Office in
London said. They include community and charity workers
nominated by the public, alongside business leaders, public
servants and stars of sport and entertainment.  Carr, Broughton and Ellwood, who is chairman of  Rexam Plc ,
receive knighthoods and will be able to put “sir” in front of
their names. They will receive medals from Queen Elizabeth II at
a ceremony where she touches them on both shoulders with a
sword. Confederation of British Industry Director General
Richard Lambert will also be knighted.  Remnant, a Credit Suisse senior adviser in Europe and
former head of U.K. investment banking, becomes a  Commander of
the Order of the British Empire  or CBE. He won the award “for
services to the financial-services industry and to the public
sector,” according to a statement detailing the awards.  Carr, who was chairman of Cadbury Plc, the maker of Dairy
Milk chocolate, when it was taken over by  Kraft Foods Inc . this
year, should not receive an award, the  Unite  labor union said.  ‘Acts of Loyalty’  “Under his leadership he allowed this iconic British
company to be taken over by Kraft, a highly leveraged company
that has already cut hundreds of jobs since February and will
undoubtedly be looking for further cuts to help pay down their
huge debts,” a Unite spokeswoman, Jennie Formby said by
telephone. “It is our members, the workers of Cadbury, whose
hard work and acts of loyalty should be receiving recognition
and honors.”  A spokesman for Centrica, the U.K.’s biggest energy
supplier, said that Carr, who won the award for “services to
business,” would not be making any comment on his knighthood.  The honors are bestowed in the name of the queen and are
recommended by an independent panel, which considers suggestions
from government departments and political parties as well as
from the public.  Broughton, who is a former chairman of  British American
Tobacco Plc  and chairman of Liverpool Football Club, said he was
surprised to be knighted.  “I have been lucky enough to be involved with some great
British companies and institutions in my career, but it was a
real surprise to receive such recognition,” Broughton said in
an e-mailed statement.  ‘Pink Panther’  People getting other honors may put letters signifying the
award after their names. They include Lennox, who becomes an
Officer of the Order of the British Empire, or OBE, for her work
for the international development charity  Oxfam . Guitarist
Richard Thompson also receives an OBE, as does England rugby
player Mike Catt and “Pink Panther” actor Burt Kwouk.  Artist Steve McQueen becomes a CBE, as do Suchet, Hancock
and  Trevor Horn , who produced records for Frankie Goes to
Hollywood and Paul McCartney as well as working on the single
“Do They Know It’s Christmas,” which raised funds for African
famine victims in 1984.  This year’s soccer World Cup final referee, Howard Webb,
and golf’s 2010 U.S. Open winner, Graeme McDowell, become
Members of the Order of the British Empire, or MBE.  Also awarded an MBE is Rosemary Clarke, director of
 Bookstart , a project providing free books to children, which was
 told on Dec. 17  that its 13 million-pound ($20 million) annual
government grant will be cut to zero from April.  The first awards for lawmakers since 2008 go to Peter Bottomley, a Conservative member of the House of Commons who is
knighted, and Labour lawmaker Anne Begg, who becomes a Dame, the
female equivalent.  Peter Viggers, who was one of the last two lawmakers to
receive awards in the queen’s birthday honors in 2008, drew
nationwide attention in 2009 when his expenses claims included
one for a 1,645-pound “duck island” in the pond outside his
home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  