-- Euro Imbalances Mean 80% Risk Bloc Will See Structural Overhaul, CEBR Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-31T00:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-31/euro-imbalances-mean-80-risk-bloc-will-see-overhaul-cebr-says.html
The likelihood the euro area will
exist in its current structure in a decade is 20 percent as
governments fail to take sufficient measures to tackle economic
imbalances, the Centre for Economics and Business Research said.  The euro region will have another debt crisis by this
spring, when Spain and  Italy  have to refinance more than 400
billion euros ($532 billion) of bonds, CEBR Chief Executive
Officer Douglas McWilliams said in an e-mailed note released in  London  today.  “The euro might break up at this point, though European
politicians are normally able to respond to a crisis,” he said.
“If the euro doesn’t break up, this could be the year when it
weakens substantially toward parity with the dollar.”  The European Union and the  International Monetary Fund 
approved rescue packages for Ireland and  Greece  this year after
concerns about the sustainability of government finances pushed
up bond yields. German government bonds advanced yesterday after
Italy’s borrowing costs rose at a government debt sale.  “I suspect that what will break up the euro will be the
failure of most of the countries to take the tough medicine
necessary to make their economies competitive over the longer
term,” McWilliams said. “We give it only a 1-in-5 chance of
surviving in its present form for 10 years.”  The CEBR’s comments come as part of the group’s “top 10
predictions” for 2011, which include an economic crisis in
Japan and no changes in  interest rates  in the U.S., the euro
area and the U.K.  The British housing market will also be “weak” and
“prices could even edge down” in the first half, before
greater competition among banks to lend pushes down the cost of
borrowing, boosting the market, McWilliams said. This will
result in values being “much the same at the end of the year as
at the beginning,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  