-- NFL Panthers Fire Coach John Fox; Houston Texans to Keep Kubiak at Helm
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2011-01-01T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-31/texans-to-keep-coach-kubiak-want-wade-phillips-houston-chronicle-says.html
The  Carolina Panthers , who have the  National Football League ’s worst record at 2-13 this season,
won’t renew the contracts of head coach John Fox and his staff,
the team said on its website.  The Houston Texans, with a 5-10 record, will probably
retain coach Gary Kubiak for a sixth season in 2011, the  Houston
Chronicle  reported yesterday, citing two people familiar with
the team who requested anonymity.  Fox, 55, has compiled a 73-70 regular-season record in nine
seasons with the Panthers, taking Carolina to the  Super Bowl  in
2003. His last game will be the season finale tomorrow at
Atlanta.  Panthers owner Jerry Richardson said in a team statement
that “it is time for both sides to move in different
directions.”  “I appreciate the opportunity Mr. Richardson gave me to be
a head coach in the National Football League nine years ago and
to be a part of this organization,” Fox said in a statement on
the team’s website.  Texans owner Bob McNair believes the offense, which
averages 379 yards per game, is on the right track under
Kubiak’s direction and expects to hire a big-name defensive
coordinator this offseason, the Chronicle said. The Houston
defense has given up 29.2 points per game this year, third most
in the league. The team hasn’t reached the playoffs in Kubiak’s
five years as coach.  McNair would like the defensive coordinator to be Wade Phillips, the Chronicle said. Phillips, whose father, Bum,
coached the Houston Oilers before that franchise moved to
Nashville, was fired as coach of the  Dallas Cowboys  in November
after a 1-7 start. To make room for Wade Phillips, McNair is
expected to fire current defensive coordinator Frank Bush,
according to the Chronicle.  Texans spokesman Kevin Cooper said in a telephone interview
that McNair would wait until after the season ends tomorrow to
make coaching decisions, and that any moves would come “earlier
than later.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net 
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  