-- Gold's Rally May Pause Near Record on Bollinger Bands: Technical Analysis
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-12-31T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-31/gold-s-rally-may-pause-near-record-on-bollinger-bands-technical-analysis.html
Gold may stall below a record after
the metal rallied to near the higher of two Bollinger bands,
according to technical analysis by VTB Capital.  The attached chart shows bullion this week climbed above a
resistance level of about $1,390 an ounce, which had capped
prices the previous eight days. Still, the rally may halt near
$1,423.50 for “a week or so” as the upper Bollinger band
provides resistance and as the metal’s relative-strength index
rises, VTB Capital analyst Andrey Kryuchenkov said.  “We have good momentum at the moment but oscillators
already start pointing at overbought levels,” London-based
Kryuchenkov said. “It is unlikely we will breach record highs
at just one go. As it happened in October, November and
December, Bollinger bands will also serve as good short-term
resistance.”  Gold climbed to a record $1,431.25 on Dec. 7 and is heading
for a 10th consecutive annual gain on demand for a protection of
wealth and an alternative to currencies. Prices are up 28
percent this year, outperforming the MSCI World Index of
equities and U.S. Treasuries, and were at $1,406.03 at 4:07 p.m.
in London yesterday.  The metal’s 14-day RSI, a gauge of whether a commodity is
overbought or oversold, was at 62.4 yesterday, the highest
level in more than three weeks. Some analysts view a level of 70
as a sign that prices may be poised to drop.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index. Bollinger bands, developed by
analyst John Bollinger, are based on historical price swings.
The bands narrow and widen to reflect the size of those moves,
and represent possible support and resistance levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 