-- India Winter Oilseed Output May Gain as High Prices Spur Mustard Planting
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2010-12-31T03:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-31/india-winter-oilseed-output-may-gain-as-high-prices-spur-mustard-planting.html
India’s winter-sown oilseed harvest
may top last year’s output as higher prices encouraged farmers
to increase mustard planting and as favorable weather boosts
yields, according to  the Solvent Extractors’ Association Ltd .  Output for the crop, harvesting for which starts in March,
may be more than the  9.27 million metric tons  likely produced a
year earlier, B.V. Mehta, executive director of the association,
which represents 800 Indian oilseed processors, said in an
interview yesterday.  A bigger crop may cut vegetable oil purchases by India, the
world’s largest buyer after China. India relies on overseas
supplies to meet more than half of its edible oil demand and
palm oil makes up almost 80 percent of the nation’s imports.  “International prices have gone up and local prices have
moved in tandem with them. This will have direct impact on
domestic oilseeds prices and will ensure better return for the
farmers,” Mehta said by telephone from Mumbai. “Farmers expect
they will get a better price” for winter-sown oilseeds.  Palm oil futures on Dec. 28 gained to 3,792 ringgit
($1,231) a ton, the highest level since March 2008, amid concern
that the supply of cooking oils may tighten as dry weather in
Argentina hurt the crop in the world’s largest producer of
soybean oil, and after rains affected harvesting in Indonesia
and Malaysia, the largest exporters of palm oil.  The most-active contract in Malaysia rose 42 percent this
year, the second straight annual increase, and ended at the
highest since at least 1995, according to Bloomberg data.  Prices Rise  Refined soybean oil for January delivery has risen 20
percent since Oct. 12 on the National Commodity & Derivatives
Exchange while crude palm oil has increased 30 percent since
Oct. 18 on the Multi Commodity Exchange of India in Mumbai.  Mustard seed, planted in October and November, accounts for
more than 70 percent of India’s output of winter oilseeds. Its
yellow-colored oil is the third-most used cooking oil in India
after palm oil and soybean oil.  Winter-sown oilseeds, including mustard and peanuts, were
planted on 8.45 million hectares (20.8 million acres) as of Dec.
24, up from 8.24 million hectares a year ago, the farm ministry
said last week.  “Based on the acreage if everything remains normal we will
have a better crop than last year,” Mehta said. “Favorable
weather” is also supporting crops as late monsoon rains
improved the soil moisture, Mehta said.  India purchases palm oil from Indonesia and Malaysia, and
soybean oil from Argentina and Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 Rdobson4@bloomberg.net  