-- North Welsh Conwy Region Posted Largest U.K. House-Price Increase in 2010
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-31T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-31/north-welsh-region-posted-largest-u-k-house-price-gain-in-2010.html
The Conwy area of North Wales posted
the largest increase in home values among U.K.  counties  in 2010
as regional variations deepened amid a fluctuating housing
market, Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s Halifax division said.  The average house price in the  north Welsh region  increased
13 percent, or 18,506 pounds ($28,600), to 162,691 pounds in the
12 months through November, the mortgage-lending unit said in an
e-mailed report released in London today. Nationally, prices
rose on average 3 percent.  While 10 of the top 20 U.K. counties in terms of house-
price growth this year were either in southeast or southwest
England, just two in the north made the list. That regional
outperformance may intensify as the government carries out the
largest budget squeeze since World War II, Halifax said.  “U.K. house prices at the end of 2011 will be at a broadly
similar level to that at the end of 2010,” Halifax’s housing
economist, Suren Thiru, said in the report. “Prices are
expected to be strongest in southern England as this part of the
country is likely to fare better economically” and values
elsewhere “are likely to be constrained by a greater dependence
on public-sector employment.”  After Conwy, East Dunbartonshire, north of Glasgow, and the
Dumfries and Galloway area in southwest Scotland recorded the
next biggest house-price gains, with 12 percent and 11 percent
respectively, Halifax said.  Surrey on Top  The top house-price performers were mostly areas with
values already above the British average, the company said.
Surrey, southwest of London, is the most expensive county in the
U.K. with an average price of 296,344 pounds, and Blaenau Gwent
in Wales the least expensive with an average of 86,385 pounds.  After recovering from a slump following the credit crunch,
the U.K. housing market weakened this year as banks curtailed
lending and the government announced tax increases and spending
cuts to help tackle the record budget deficit. Values will fall
2.5 percent in 2011 as those factors deter buyers, according to
the median estimate of 23 banks, brokers and property
forecasters in a Bloomberg News survey.  Halifax used data from 102 English counties and unitary
authorities in Scotland and Wales, which don’t have counties
comparable to those in England and Northern Ireland. Scottish
and Welsh unitary authorities were referred to as counties in
the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  