-- U.S. Treasury Met Goldman Sachs on Fannie, Freddie in November
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-12-31T00:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-31/u-s-treasury-met-goldman-sachs-executives-on-fannie-freddie-in-november.html
U.S. Treasury Department officials
met in November with a group of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .
executives to discuss Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two
government-sponsored enterprises that have been under government
control since 2008.  Mary Miller, the Treasury’s assistant secretary for
financial markets, met with John Rogers, Harvey Schwartz, Steve Strongin and six other Goldman Sachs executives on Nov. 17,
according to calendars released today of the Treasury’s meetings
related to the Dodd-Frank law. The executives also met with
Miller and Michael Barr, the former assistant secretary for
financial institutions, on Nov. 18 to discuss the Volcker rule,
which restricts proprietary trading.  The calendars don’t say where the meetings took place. They
include information for Treasury officials with the rank of
deputy assistant secretary or higher in the month of November.
Meetings from future months will be released on the Treasury’s
 website  on a regular basis.  Today’s release lists the participants in a previously
announced Singapore meeting between Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and U.S. and Asian financial industry executives. That
meeting, on Nov. 10, included David Ryan of Goldman Sachs,  Citigroup Inc .’s Michael Zink, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Philip Lee,
Piyush Gupta of DBS Group Holdings Ltd. and David Conner of
Overseas-Chinese Banking Corporation Ltd., according to the
Treasury information.  The Dodd-Frank law, enacted in July, establishes a
Treasury-led council of regulators to guard against risk across
the financial system. It also includes a wide range of other
provisions, such as a consumer protection bureau at the Federal
Reserve and central bank oversight over all financial companies
whose collapse could threaten global markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  