-- Your Toasting to 2011 Isn’t the Boss’s Business: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-12-31T02:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-31/your-toasting-to-2011-isn-t-the-boss-s-business-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
So you’re out tonight toasting
farewell to 2010, and then you toast hello to 2011. You drink to
health and prosperity. You raise a glass to friendship and love.
You become giddy as you ponder a new year, or maybe it’s all
those champagne toasts, the cocktails before dinner, the wine at
dinner, brandy later.  Maybe you don’t remember exactly what you were toasting.  Take comfort in this thought: Unless you return to work
obviously hung over, inebriated or sipping some hair of the dog
from your coffee thermos, your employer can’t legally test you
for alcohol.  Drugs, yes. But if the boss has no good reason to suspect
an on-the-job alcohol problem and still asks for your blood,
urine or breath in search of one, call the U.S. Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission.  It turns out that random workplace alcohol testing is a
form of illegal discrimination under federal law, according to
the agency. Specifically, it seems to violate the Americans With
Disabilities  Act , which bars medical testing except when “job-
related and consistent with business necessity.” And checking
blood alcohol content is considered medical testing, according
to federal  guidelines .  Right now, the EEOC is suing U.S. Steel Corp. and the
United Steelworkers union because their collective bargaining
agreement says the company can look for blood alcohol content in
symptomless employees during their probationary period.  Case Study  Abigail DeSimone was one such employee. She was working at
U.S. Steel’s coke-making  plant  south of Pittsburgh in 2008 when
a company nurse told her to breathe into a device that then
detected alcohol. Twice.  False positives, DeSimone insisted. She said she hadn’t had
a drink for weeks and blamed her diabetes for misleading the
breathalyzer. Her doctor gave her a blood test later that day
and faxed in the result: negative for alcohol.  Nonetheless, out the door she went.  The EEOC figures there are lots of other former U.S. Steel
employees discharged during their initial, probationary period
because of random alcohol testing.  So the agency is  suing  on DeSimone’s behalf and also hopes
to represent anyone else U.S. Steel fired because of the policy.  It’s also suing the union, which you might think would be
defending employees, not conspiring with the company to have
them fired after being subjected to such a test. But since 2006,
the collective bargaining agreement covering U.S. Steel
employees has specifically allowed the policy. The union
conceded that point in a court filing, while denying that it
should be subject to the suit.  Union on Board  The EEOC seeks monetary damages for wrongly fired employees
and an immediate end to the practice.  Attempts to reach the  union  or its lawyers failed. The
Steelworkers office was shut for the holiday and its phone, as
well as the direct lines of two of its lawyers, went unanswered.
At U.S. Steel, a spokeswoman said the company wouldn’t discuss
pending litigation. As for general policy questions, she
referred me to the company’s labor relations office, which
didn’t return two phone messages.  Companies can, of course, prohibit employees from ingesting
alcohol or illegal drugs at work and from showing up impaired by
either. If management has grounds to suspect someone is breaking
those rules -- excessive absenteeism or accidents, slurred
speech or bizarre behavior -- it can haul out the breathalyzer,
the syringe or the cup.  And the company can subject would-be hires to testing
before their first day, as long as it does so with everyone
about to be employed for that kind of job.  Don’t Look Back  As for recovering alcoholics or ex-drug addicts, employers
can’t turn them away because of their histories. That would be
discriminating on the basis of disability.  The guiding standard is that, as long as employees perform
the tasks the job requires and endanger neither themselves nor
others, you can’t check their breath or bodily fluids for
alcohol.  This all seems reasonable, as the rules focus on the worker
at work, not at home or with friends after hours, for the most
part. But that focus blurs if the question is whether marijuana,
cocaine or other controlled substances are involved.  The protection for employees against random alcohol testing
doesn’t apply to checking for illegal drug use. For that, a
specific exemption in the law allows management to test whomever
it wants, whenever it wants, no reason necessary.  It’s understandable that legitimate employers don’t want to
hire applicants engaged in criminal conduct.  Easier on Alcohol  But if the point of testing is to reduce workplace
accidents and ensure workers are clear-headed enough to do their
jobs, it doesn’t make sense that the law makes it tougher to
test for alcohol than for drugs.  More than 11 percent of the adult workforce drank alcohol
during or just before the workday at least once over the
previous year, addiction researcher Michael Frone at the
University of New York at Buffalo  reported  in a 2006 article.
That was almost four times the number who used illegal drugs
under those circumstances, Frone reported in another 2006
 article .  We aren’t talking about people who take an occasional glass
of wine over lunch with a client. More than 57 million workers
were binge drinkers or otherwise imbibed large quantities of
alcohol, according to a  survey  conducted in 2007 by the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services. By contrast, there were
10.2 million illicit drugs users, meaning people who used it at
least once during the previous month, the survey  found .  So where is the greater danger of producing fuzzy-headed
workers?  Society’s Standards  The looser rules for drug testing in the workplace reflect
society’s view that those substances are more dangerous than
alcohol, which is also the reason marijuana is illegal and gin
isn’t.  At any rate, if you plan a substantial alcohol intake for
New Year’s Eve, and perhaps more for football games or open
houses on New Year’s Day, take care not to endanger yourself or
anyone else.  And if you don’t want to give the boss a reason to bring
out the breathalyzer, show up for work Monday stone-cold sober.  (Ann Woolner is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  