-- `Homeless' Industrial-Gas Offsets May Flood New Zealand, IdeaCarbon Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2010-12-02T12:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/-homeless-hfc-23-carbon-offsets-may-flood-new-zealand-ideacarbon-says.html
United Nations offsets from
industrial-gas projects may flood the emissions-trading program
in New Zealand and push the country’s carbon prices lower if the
European Union prohibits their use, according to IDEACarbon.  The EU proposed last week a ban for use in its carbon
program, the world’s largest, of credits linked to HFC-23 as
well as nitrous oxide from adipic acid production. The European
Commission, the EU regulator, said that projects related to
those industrial gases may create “excessive” profits and
undermine market integrity.  UN Certified Emission Reduction credits, known as CERs and
awarded to projects that cut emissions in developing countries,
can be used for compliance in the EU’s and New Zealand’s carbon
programs as an alternative to allowances issued by the systems.  “Beyond Europe, New Zealand is currently the only
established marketplace for the decreasingly relevant HFC-23 and
N20 CERs,” Matthew Gray, an analyst at IdeaCarbon in London,
wrote in a note. “If there is cost-parity between New Zealand’s
units and CERs, the illiquid and shallow New Zealand market will
quickly be flooded by foreign CERs looking for a home.”  As EU national governments prepare for a debate on the
proposed ban, the regulators of the UN  Clean Development
Mechanism , the world’s second-biggest emissions market, consider
a change of methodology for awarding credits to projects that
cut HFC-23 amid allegations of misuse.  Business-as-Usual Case  Under a scenario where a change of methodology by the CDM
regulator cuts yields at HFC-23 projects by 70 percent, total
issuance of credits related to this gas will be at 908 million
tons through 2030, according to IdeaCarbon. It will rise to 1.63
billion tons under a business-as-usual case.  UN CERs for delivery in December this year traded 0.9
percent higher at 11.95 euros a ton in London today, while EU
allowances gained 1.2 percent to 15.01 euros. Spot prices for
carbon credits in New Zealand were NZ$20.80 ($15.70) last week,
according to a Nov. 26  report  by Auckland-based broker
OMFinancial Ltd.  Companies in New Zealand’s  emissions-trading scheme  have
the option to pay a tax of NZ$25 a ton of carbon dioxide
discharges or buy credits backed by forestry. The program, also
known as NZ ETS, was legislated in 2008 and expanded in July to
include energy producers.  “Because of the sluggishness of the NZ ETS market and the
cumbersome nature of over-the-counter deals, NZ ETS participants
can enter the more liquid and transparent CER market to secure
compliance,” Gray said.  HFC-23 Credits  Interest in UN offsets from New Zealand’s emitters could
rise if EU member states give the green light to the ban
proposed by the commission and the CDM regulators change the
methodology for awarding HFC-23 credits, according to the
IdeaCarbon research note.  This could push the price of offsets related to nitrous
oxide and HFC-23 credits below the New Zealand units, Gray said.  “The New Zealand government needs to make a decision on
this issue,” he said. “Compared to Europe, New Zealand
currently takes a cavalier approach to emission reductions, but
the inclusion of HFC-23 and N2O CERs would undermine their clean
green image.”  HFC-23, which can trap 11,700 times more heat per molecule
than carbon dioxide, is a byproduct of HCFC-22 used in air-
conditioning and refrigeration. The EU and environmental
lobbyists including Bonn-based CDM Watch have said some plants
may be increasing HCFC-22 output simply to generate credits for
controlling HFC-23 discharges.  While HFC-23 projects represent less than 1 percent of all
registered UN offset projects, their credits account for more
than half of about 476 million offsets issued so far. The 19
projects cutting the gas under the CDM program are located
mainly in China and India, according to UN data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  