-- `Irrationally Low' Bill Yields Hamper PBOC's Inflation Fight: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-03T10:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/-irrationally-low-bill-yields-hamper-pboc-s-inflation-fight-china-credit.html
The lowest yields at Chinese auctions
in more than three years are curbing demand for central bank
bills, hampering efforts to drain cash from the financial system
as inflation gathers pace.  The People’s Bank of China sold 1 billion yuan ($150
million) of one-year bills to  yield  2.34 percent on Nov. 30, 70
basis points less than the rate on similar-maturity  existing
securities , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The sale
raised the least  amount  at a weekly auction since October 2007
and seven times the average yield spread for 2010. Consumer
prices rose 4.4 percent in October, the most in 25 months.  “The central bank is facing greater pressure to soak up
liquidity as the consensus is that November’s inflation rate was
even higher than October’s,” said  Wang Mingfeng , a fixed-income
analyst at Citic Securities Co., the nation’s largest listed
brokerage. “Bill auction rates may have to rise to reflect
gains in trading as current levels are irrationally low.”  The People’s Bank of China raised lenders’ reserve
requirements twice last month and announced in October the first
interest-rate increase since 2007, seeking to tame inflation as
prospects for appreciation of the yuan draw funds to the country.
The central bank may step up debt sales to soak up inflows,  Ma Delun , a deputy governor, said Nov. 29, three days after the
Finance Ministry failed to draw enough demand at a bill auction
for the first time since June.  Sales Slump  The central bank has on average raised 33 billion yuan at
this year’s weekly sales of one-year bills. Yesterday’s sale of
1 billion yuan of three-month  notes  by the monetary authority
was also the smallest since 2007 and compares with a 2010
average of 38 billion yuan.  “The PBOC has been scaling back auctions but there’s an
oversupply of these notes anyway because of expectations for
more interest-rate increases,” said  Jiang Mingbo , who helps
manage 25 billion yuan at ICBC Credit Suisse Asset Management Co.
in Beijing. “The bill-rate gap with the secondary market is
also stopping buying.”  Auction rates for one-year bills have climbed 25 basis
points, or 0.25 percentage point, since the People’s Bank of
China raised its benchmark 12-month deposit rate on Oct. 19 by a
quarter of a percentage point to 2.5 percent.  Yields  for
existing securities jumped 90 basis points to 3 percent in that
time, touching a two-year high of 3.04 percent on Nov. 30.  The Finance Ministry sold 11.6 billion yuan of three-month
securities in a 91-day bills sale on Nov. 26, falling short of
its 20 billion yuan target.  Further Tightening  The central bank may step up tightening this month by
selling more bills in open-market operations or raising banks’
reserve requirements further to sterilize increased cash in the
financial system, according to Yang Mo, a money dealer at
Industrial Bank Co. in Shanghai. “So the PBOC needs to let bill
yields rise to attract demand to meet the goal of soaking cash
through open-market auctions,” she said.  The yuan was little changed yesterday at 6.6613 per dollar.
The currency strengthened 2.4 percent since a two-year peg ended
on June 19, and 12-month non-deliverable forwards reflect bets
for a 2.3 percent advance in the coming year.  Benchmark 10-year bonds rose for a fifth day, lowering the
yield on the 3.29 percent note due in September 2020 by one
basis point today and 18 basis points this week to 3.89 percent,
according to prices from the National Interbank Funding Center.  Five-year contracts on the nation’s debt fell 3 basis
points yesterday to 68, according to CMA prices in New York.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Rate Outlook  One-year interest-rate  swaps  based on the floating seven-
day repurchase  rate  jumped a record 83 basis points last month
to 3.18 percent. The rate has since slipped to 3.11 percent.  Policy makers are reluctant to let bill yields climb at
auctions as increases may fuel speculation of further interest-
rate rises, encouraging capital inflows that are stoking
inflation, Citic’s Wang said. He predicted the central bank will
allow the one-year rate to increase to about 2.5 percent in the
“near term” and may tighten lenders’ reserve requirements
further unless bill sales prove more successful in draining
funds from the financial system.  Government data this month will show  consumer prices 
climbed 4.7 percent from a year earlier in November, the most
since August 2008, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The central bank bought 519
billion yuan of foreign exchange from local lenders in October,
79 percent more than the previous month and the most since April
2008, according to data released Nov. 26.  Inflation may average 5.5 percent in 2011, up from an
estimated 3.2 percent this year, Standard Chartered analysts led
by  Stephen Green  wrote in a Nov. 18 report. The U.K. lender said
it expects the central bank to raise interest rates four more
times by the end of June, boost lenders’ reserve-requirement
ratios by 50 basis points as many as five times and allow yuan
appreciation to accelerate to a 7 percent annual pace as it
tries to stem price gains.  -- Belinda Cao . With assistance from  Andrea Wong  in Taipei.
Editors:  James Regan ,  Laura Zelenko .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 