-- Acer Aims to Capture 15% of Tablet PC Market in 2011
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-02T01:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/acer-s-ceo-lanci-aims-for-15-of-global-tablet-sales-in-battle-with-ipad.html
Acer Inc.  said it’s aiming to capture
15 percent of global tablet-computer sales next year,
challenging  Research In Motion Ltd . and  Samsung Electronics Co. 
for second place in a market dominated by  Apple Inc. ’s iPad.  Shipments will begin next quarter as the Taipei-based
personal-computer maker jumps into a market where global
shipments may reach 50 million units in 2011, Chief Executive
Officer  Gianfranco Lanci  said yesterday in an interview in
Chongqing, China.  Lanci’s projections indicate Acer, the top maker of low-end
laptops known as netbooks, may sell more than twice the number
of tablets  JPMorgan Chase & Co . estimated last month. The push
highlights the intensifying competition to become No. 2 in the
fastest-growing segment of the computer industry as companies
from RIM to Samsung battle to offer the most popular alternative
to the iPad.  “The company has talked aggressively about the tablet
market but Apple is still very dominating,” said  Steven Tseng ,
an analyst at RBS Asia Ltd. “Aside from price it’s hard to tell
what Acer has in their products to differentiate themselves and
outperform. If they make cheap models like in the netbook area,
they may have success. They’re really good at volume business.”  Still, Tseng rates Acer shares “hold,” partly on concern
that new tablet products may not be able to make up for
declining  sales  of netbook computers.  The Competition  Acer rose 1.6 percent to NT$93.90 at 9:41 a.m. in Taipei
trading, limiting this year’s drop to 2.3 percent.  Acer last month unveiled a lineup of three tablet computers
-- two devices based on  Google Inc .’s Android operating system
and one on Microsoft Corp.’s Windows software.  The tablets may be priced between $299 and $599, depending
on configuration, screen size and connectivity, Lanci said. The
iPad is priced between $499 and $829 in the U.S.  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, unveiled its Galaxy
Tab in September, and RIM plans to release the 7-inch BlackBerry
PlayBook next quarter.  “There is competition and we are set to compete,” Lanci
said. “We have strength in designing and developing product. We
have strength in terms of channel. We have strength, probably
more than other people, in emerging markets.”  ‘Dead on Arrival’  Apple’s iPad sales will almost double to 25.5 million next
year, while Samsung will sell 6 million tablets and RIM will
sell 5 million PlayBooks, according September estimates at
Canaccord Genuity.  Tablets bridge the gap between laptops and smartphones such
as RIM’s BlackBerry and Apple’s iPhone. Apple, which showed the
appeal of such devices by selling 3 million iPads in the first
80 days after the product debuted in April, accounted for 95
percent of the tablet market last quarter, according to  Strategy
Analytics.   Apple Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  in October said
that devices such as the PlayBook are “dead on arrival”
because they are too small to compete with the iPad, which has a
9.7-inch screen.  Lanci dismissed Jobs’ comment, saying there is room for
both sizes.  “It depends on user needs,” Lanci said. “While a 10-inch
tablet is a very good solution at home or in the office, seven
inches can be a very good solution for people traveling or with
different needs, even replacing e-books.”  Chongqing Plant  Acer will start delivering its tablets in the first quarter
from existing plants in and around Shanghai, Lanci said.
Production of the devices may shift to a plant in Chongqing,
which is part of the $150 million investment in the city that
Acer and the municipal government agreed on yesterday, Lanci
said. The new facility will start operations in the third
quarter, he said.  The Chongqing plant will have the capacity to produce 30
million to 40 million notebooks or netbook computers annually,
and will also manufacture smartphones and tablets, Lanci said.
The factory will help Acer almost double the portion of sales it
gets in China to 25 percent of  revenue  within three years, from
more than 10 percent projected for next year, he said.  China will likely overtake the U.S. as the world’s largest
computer market within three years, Lanci said. Acer had 13
percent share of the global PC market in the third quarter,
ranking it second after  Hewlett-Packard Co ., according to IDC.  Lanci said growth of tablet computer sales won’t kill the
company’s netbook business.  “We don’t see the netbook market dying or declining,
except in the U.S.,” Lanci said. “For netbooks outside the
U.S. we still see very good growth. The two segments, we are
convinced, will coexist together. We see tablets as another
opportunity to grow the PC market in the future, not tablets as
replacing other devices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  