-- Warsaw IPOs Sour as AFI, Avia, Geo-Alliance Withdraw $449 Million of Deals
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-12-02T10:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/afi-europe-developer-postpones-warsaw-share-sale-due-to-market-conditions.html
AFI Europe NV, a  real-estate
developer , postponed its initial public offering, the third
company to drop plans for a Warsaw share sale as Poland said
private pension funds may get less cash to invest.  AFI delayed the deal because of “unfavorable” market
conditions, it said in an e-mail late yesterday. The company,
controlled by Israeli billionaire  Lev Leviev , had planned to
raise about 130 million euros ($171 million) and start trading
in the Polish capital around Dec. 9. The postponement followed
announcements yesterday by Ukraine’s Geo-Alliance Oil-Gas Public
Ltd. and Avia Solutions Group of Lithuania.  Poland may cut transfers to privately run pension funds,
some of the largest domestic institutional investors, as it
looks for ways to narrow the budget gap created by shifting
employee contributions away from the state-run system, Finance
Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said Nov. 30.  “The uncertainty over Polish pension reform didn’t help
with achieving a satisfactory price,”  Miroslaw Dziolko , a fund
manager at Bank Millennium SA’s mutual fund, said by phone.
“The IPO market has become saturated, and sentiment has soured
because of Europe’s fiscal crisis,” Dziolko said.  Warsaw’s benchmark WIG20 Index rose 1 percent to 2,694.19
at 11:17 a.m., down 2.7 percent from its 2010 peak on Nov. 9.  Poland has had the most IPOs in central Europe each year
since at least 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sixty-five IPOs have raised a record $4.89 billion in 2010, the
largest coming from state-run insurer PZU SA and utility Tauron
Polska Energia SA. The Warsaw Stock Exchange’s own  IPO  in
October drew record demand from institutional investors, which
bid for more than 25 times the number of shares on offer.  ‘Lack of Information’  “We don’t know what’s going to happen with the Polish
pension funds, and a lack of information never helps when you’re
investing,”  Patryk Jablonowski , a fund manager at Deka
Investment in Frankfurt, said by phone. “Some investors, maybe
too hastily, drew a parallel to what happened in Hungary.”  Hungary’s government told its citizens last week to move
their pension savings back to the state from privately managed
funds or lose their government pensions. The directive is part
of an effort to move 3 trillion forint ($14 billion) of assets
managed by the funds into the state budget to reduce the deficit
and public debt.  Europe’s fiscal crisis also hurt share sales in emerging
markets, some of which were priced “too high,” and investors’
risk appetite is diminishing as the year ends, Jablonowski said.  Greece, Ireland  Global stocks dropped last month, pushing the  MSCI World
Index  down 5.6 percent since its 2010 peak on Nov. 5, on concern
the European sovereign-debt crisis that pushed Greece and
Ireland to seek help is spreading.  AFI, Avia and Geo-Alliance join at least 16 companies
worldwide that have postponed or canceled IPOs valued at $4.88
billion since the beginning of November, Bloomberg data show.  Geo-Alliance, controlled by Ukrainian billionaire  Victor Pinchuk , had sought about 750 million zloty ($246 million),
partly to finance drilling in Ukraine, Poland’s eastern
neighbor.  It would have joined Ukrainian agricultural producers
Agroton Public Ltd., Astarta Holding NV and Kernel Holding SA,
already traded in Warsaw. Sadovaya Group SA, which mines coal in
Ukraine, said yesterday it plans to raise $60 million to
increase capacity from a Warsaw IPO this month.  On Nov. 26 Milkiland NV, a dairy company that operates in
Russia and Ukraine, set its 211 million-zloty IPO price at 33.78
zloty a share, 26 percent below the maximum it had sought.  Avia, a Lithuanian provider of services for airlines that
had planned to raise 98.7 million zloty, will now sell shares at
the beginning of next year, the PAP newswire reported yesterday,
citing a statement from the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  