-- Halliburton Says It Hasn't Seen New Nigerian Charges Plant by Graft Agency
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2010-12-02T10:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/halliburton-says-it-hasn-t-seen-any-amended-nigerian-charges.html
Halliburton Co. , the world’s second-
largest oilfield-services provider, said it hasn’t seen any
amended charges by Nigerian authorities who plan to indict
current and former employees in a bribery scandal.  Nigeria will file charges against former U.S. Vice
President  Dick Cheney  and officials from five foreign companies
including Halliburton over a $180 million bribery scandal
arising from the construction of a $6 billion liquefied natural-
gas plant, Godwin Obla, prosecuting counsel at the country’s
 Economic and Financial Crimes Commission , said yesterday.  “Halliburton’s oil-field services operations in Nigeria
have never in any way been part of the LNG project and none of
the Halliburton employees have ever had any connection to or
participation in that project,” Tara Mullee Agard, a spokeswoman
for the Houston-based company, said in an e-mailed response to
questions late yesterday.  The EFFC plans to lodge indictments in a Nigerian court “in
the next three days,” Obla said in an interview. An arrest
warrant for Cheney “will be issued and transmitted through
Interpol,” the world’s biggest international police
organization, he said.  Halliburton and its former subsidiary, KBR, agreed to pay
$579 million in February 2009 to U.S. authorities for violations
of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act through bribe payments in
Nigeria that stretched from 1994 to 2004.  Vice President  Cheney, 69, was chief executive officer of Halliburton from
1995 until 2000, when he became U.S. President  George W. Bush ’s
running mate and then vice president. He formed the company’s
KBR Inc. unit after acquiring Dresser Industries Inc. in 1998.  Peter Long, Cheney’s spokesman, said he couldn’t comment on
the planned charges when contacted yesterday. He didn’t
immediately respond to e-mailed requests for comment.  KBR was part of a group of international companies known as
TSKJ, after the members’ initials, comprising  Technip SA , based
in Paris, Snamprogetti SpA, a unit of Eni SPA, Italy’s biggest
oil producer, KBR and  JGC Corp.  of Japan.  Technip took a charge of 245 million euros ($342 million)
related to its stake in TSJK and discussed “resolution of all
potential claims” with the U.S. Justice Department and the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Paris-based company said
on Feb. 12.  Christophe Bélorgeot, a spokesman for Technip, said in a
phone interview today the Paris-based company “will cooperate
with the EFCC in Nigeria.” He declined to comment further.  Cooperation  “Eni confirms its availability to cooperate with the local
authorities in the ongoing investigations, as it has done in the
past with Italian and U.S. authorities,”  Gianni Di Giovanni ,
spokesman for the company, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  In addition to the probe into TSKJ, Nigeria is also
investigating  Panalpina Welttransport Holding AG , a Swiss
freight company, in connection with illegal payments it
allegedly made to Nigerian customs officials on behalf of  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc .  Panalpina, Shell and five oil-services companies agreed to
pay $236.5 million to resolve a U.S. probe of overseas bribery,
the  Justice Department  said on Nov. 4. The bribes were paid to
expedite the import of goods and equipment, avoid customs duties
on imported goods, extend drilling contracts and lower tax
assessments, according to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest crude producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. oil imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisha Bala-Gbogbo  in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 