-- Amazon.com Invests $175 Million in LivingSocial Site
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-12-03T00:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/amazon-com-is-said-to-be-close-to-annoucement-of-livingsocial-investment.html
Amazon.com Inc . invested $175 million
in LivingSocial.com, a daily coupon website, to benefit from
surging demand for online discounts on products and services.  Venture capital firm Lightspeed Venture Partners invested
$8 million in the site, which will use the funds to expand
globally, Washington-based LivingSocial said today in a
statement.  Amazon Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is using part of
the company’s $5.89 billion in  cash  to back a service that helps
consumers save on everything from hotel stays to spa visits.
Google Inc. offered to buy Groupon.com, the biggest daily deal
site, for $6 billion, people familiar with the matter said Nov.
30. The approach has heightened interest in comparable sites.  “We see a tie-up between Amazon and LivingSocial as a smart
strategic and financial move,”  Marianne Wolk , an analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group in New York, wrote today in a
research note.  Startup LivingSocial is likely to generate sales of more
than $500 million next year, CEO  Tim O’Shaughnessy  said last
month. Groupon, also closely held, may surpass that milestone
this year, people familiar with the matter have said.  Before the investment announced today, LivingSocial had
raised about $50 million from  Lightspeed ,  Revolution LLC ,
 Grotech Ventures  and  U.S. Venture Partners  as well as from AOL
Inc. co-founder  Steve Case .  Bezos Buys  Amazon is looking for ways to spend its cash and extend its
lead over rivals including EBay Inc. It agreed last month to pay
$545 million for Quidsi Inc., the owner of Diapers.com and
Soap.com. This year it  also bought  e-commerce sites Woot.com and
BuyVIP.com as well as digital music store Amie Street.  Daily-deal sites offer discounts -- typically 50 percent --
from businesses such as restaurants and nail salons, then keep a
portion of the sales. The promotions activate once enough people
sign up for them. The barriers to start such a site are few;
almost anyone with an e-mail list and a deal can do it.  They’re trying to get a piece of the local advertising
market, which is set to reach $133 billion this year and is
moving online and away from print, radio and direct mail,
according to consulting firm BIA/Kelsey in Chantilly, Virginia.  Amazon, based in Seattle, slipped 2 cents to $176.53 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  