-- Angola Says OPEC to Keep Existing Oil Quota, Next License Rounds in 2011
-- B y   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s
-- 2010-12-02T11:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/angola-says-opec-to-keep-existing-oil-quota-next-license-rounds-in-2011.html
OPEC  is unlikely to change its
production quota when it meets at the end of next week, said
 Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos , Angola’s Minister of
Petroleum.  The members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries “feel” oil at $80 to $85 a barrel is a “comfortable
price” and will probably keep the group’s output targets
unchanged at their meeting on Dec. 11 in Quito, Ecuador,
Vasconcelos said in an interview late yesterday in Luanda.  “The current environment is of some stability,” he said.
“The sentiment among members is for maintaining the production
level.”  Angola , which vies with Nigeria for the rank of Africa’s
top oil producer, joins fellow OPEC members Venezuela and Libya
in saying that the group is likely to leave quotas unchanged, as
they did as OPEC’s last meeting on Oct. 14.  OPEC, which produces about 40 percent of the world’s oil,
hasn’t changed quotas since agreeing to its biggest-ever cuts in
production in December 2008. Brent crude oil futures for January
settlement were trading near $89 a barrel this morning on
London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Vasconcelos also said Angola is studying exactly when and
where to auction new oil exploration blocks for drilling.  2011 Bidding Round  “It will happen next year,” he said, confirming a Nov. 26
statement by Deputy Oil Minister Anibal Octavio da Silva.  Angola suspended a license bidding round in 2008 because of
the country’s legislative elections.  Vasconcelos said he expected oil production to increase to
1.9 million barrels a day next year, which is close to its
maximum capacity. The country pumped an average of 1.73 million
barrels a day in November, according to a Bloomberg survey of
producers and analysts on Nov. 30.  Nigeria  produced 2.12 million
a day.  The government’s 2011 budget is based on production of 1.9
million barrels of oil a day being sold at a “conservative”
$68 a barrel, Finance Minister Carlos Alberto Lopes said on Nov.
18. Lopes forecast an economic growth rate of 7.6 percent next
year.  Oil accounts for about 60 percent of Angola’s gross
domestic product and 80 to 90 percent of its export revenue,
Vasconcelos said.  Chevron Production  Almost one third of Angola’s production is operated by
 Chevron Corp. , the second-largest U.S. oil company, from off the
coast of Cabinda, a northern province separated from the rest of
Angola by the 25-mile (40-kilometer) coastline of the Democratic
Republic of Congo. Disputes over ownership of the border
region’s oil are being handled by a bilateral commission,
Vasconcelos said.  “Sometimes the negotiations have certain rhythm and
sometimes another rhythm,” he said. “We’re looking for a
solution that will satisfy the two countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candido Mendes  in Luanda at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  