-- Angola's Oil Accounts Show $8.6 Billion Discrepency in 2008, Watchdog Says
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2010-12-02T16:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/angola-s-oil-data-show-8-6-billion-gap-anti-graft-group-says.html
Angola, the second largest crude
producer in sub-Sahara Africa, has gaps in its 2008 oil accounts
amounting to billions of dollars and millions of barrels,
according to a London-based anti-corruption group.  There is an $8.55 billion discrepancy between data
published by the ministries of finance and petroleum, said a
 report  published today by  Global Witness . Sonangol, the state
oil company, issued a third amount that was between the two.  While the southwest African country has published reams of
data since 2004 under pressure for more transparency from donors
such as the International Monetary Fund, the effort falls short
because most of the figures are not independently verified and
mistakes persist, campaigner Diarmid O’Sullivan said in a
telephone interview.  “We’ve got no reason to think it’s because of any
deliberate misrepresentation,” O’Sullivan said. “The problem
is that the numbers are so confusing that there’s not a whole
lot that people can do with them.”  Sonangol and the ministries of finance and petroleum did
not reply to written requests from Global Witness to explain the
accounting disparities, the group said. Officials at the three
agencies did not respond to telephone requests today from
Bloomberg News to comment on the report.  Conflicting Figures  The three organizations used different production volumes,
average prices and exchange rates to calculate 2008 oil revenue,
O’Sullivan said. As a result, the Finance Ministry reported
$29.1 billion, the Petroleum Ministry $20.5 billion and Sonangol
$24 billion.  At one point, the Finance Ministry registered an oil price
of $187 a barrel, when the highest it’s ever been is $147 in
July 2008. The ministry also reported 87 million fewer barrels
exported than the Petroleum Ministry in 2008, the latest year
for which figures were available, O’Sullivan said.  The Global Witness  report  said there was a $2 billion
disparity in the amount received in 2006 for so-called signature
bonuses, the payments by oil companies to the government for
exploration concessions.  Sonangol’s 2008 accounts were audited by Ernst & Young with
“some qualifications” on its findings, Global Witness said.
The oil company’s accounts said it paid the government $201
million in dividends in 2008, while neither the finance nor
petroleum ministries recorded the amount. Sonangol’s accounts
show the state-owned company is 20 percent owned by unidentified
organizations, the group said.  Oil Dependency  Vicky Conybeer , a spokeswoman in London for Ernst & Young,
referred questions to company officials when called today.  Oil accounts for about 60 percent of government income and
as much as 90 percent of export revenue,  Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos , Angola’s Minister of Petroleum, said in an
interview yesterday. The country ranks 168th on  Transparency
International ’s list of the world’s most corrupt countries.  “Clearly some people in the government have taken the
point that they need to be seen to be more open and that’s good,
but it’s only going to work if they improve the quality of the
data,” O’Sullivan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colin McClelland  in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 