-- Manila’s Banter Beats Bangalore in $21 Billion Call-Center Race
-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 2010-12-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/manila-s-night-banter-beats-bangalore-in-21-billion-call-center-industry.html
For the past decade, Americans
dialing customer service stood a strong chance of being
connected to someone in India. Now they’re more likely to end up
phoning the Philippines.  Strong government support, a supply of English-speaking
college graduates and an effort by call-center operators to
reduce their dependence on India have helped the Philippines
overtake India in call-center revenue, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Dec. 6 edition.  “It’s not that we are trying to take business away from
India,” said Oscar Sañez, chief executive officer of the
 Business Processing Association of the Philippines , an industry
group. “We’re just looking for our own place in the sun.”  The Philippines will earn $5.7 billion for call-center work
this year from the U.S., Europe and Australia, compared with the
$5.5 billion generated by India, according to the  Everest Group ,
a Dallas-based outsourcing advisory firm working with the
Philippines industry. The two hubs account for about half of the
$21 billion global industry, according to Everest data.  Call-center operators said they like the Philippines
because English is taught in schools and Filipinos have a
cultural affinity for the U.S., which ruled the country from
1898 to 1946.  6 Percent of GDP  “Clearly, these guys had a much later start, but they have
caught up,” Everest Group partner Nikhil Rajpal said.  India continues to lead in overall outsourcing revenue with
$70 billion, compared with $9 billion for the Philippines,
according to BPAP and India’s National Association of Software
and Services Companies, a New Delhi-based lobbying group. The
outsourcing industry now employs 530,000 people in the
Philippines, according to Everest, and makes up about 6 percent
of gross domestic product, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  A decade ago, millions of young Filipinos, especially
English-speaking nurses and law students, emigrated to the U.S.,
Hong Kong and elsewhere. The billions of dollars they sent back
to their families every year represented the country’s second-
largest foreign-exchange earner after computer chips from Texas
Instruments and other technology companies, according to  World
Bank data .  Tax Breaks  Frustrated government officials looked to India for
inspiration, said Celeste Ilagan, who spent the past decade
working in government programs to encourage outsourcing and now
heads communications for SPi Global, a call-center operator
owned by  Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. , the nation’s
largest company by market value.  “India had become very famous for call centers, and we
decided to learn from their example,” she said.  To better understand India’s success, Filipino officials
visited industry representatives there. The Filipino government
streamlined the approval process for companies setting up call
centers and changed its rules to allow individual buildings to
be designated special economic zones, according to the
Philippines Economic Zone Authority.  Such zones offer tax breaks, quick clearances for building
permits and an exemption from import duties on computers and
telecommunications equipment. About 40,000 students have
benefited from government-sponsored training to improve their
English and communication skills, Sañez said.  Bantering in English  Call centers are changing the rhythms of Filipino life.
Malls, bars, cinemas and cafés have popped up near buildings
where young, nocturnal workers earn as much as 300,000 pesos
($6,850) a year in a country where the annual per capita GDP in
2009 was about 83,000 pesos, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Weaned on radio stations that play U.S. Top 40 pop and hip-
hop, teens seeking jobs in call centers can banter in English as
naturally as their native Tagalog. Most shifts start at 8 p.m.,
just as the U.S. East Coast wakes up.  “There used to be some doubts about letting young people
work so late at night, but now this has become an industry that
young people aspire to,” said Thea Lu, 30, a team leader with
 24/7 Customer , based in Campbell, California.  Several companies now operating in the Philippines
participated in India’s outsourcing revolution and then expanded
abroad. A tax break for Indian outsourcing shops is set to
expire in 2011, though the industry is lobbying hard against it.  Wipro, Tata Consultancy  In Bangalore and Gurgaon, India’s biggest outsourcing hubs,
companies rely on diesel generators to ensure electricity, run
fleets of buses to ferry employees to and from work, and
struggle with attrition that can reach 50 percent a year. Those
challenges, as well as a desire to diversify geographically,
have spurred both Indians and Americans that operate call
centers in India to shift work to the Philippines.  Wipro Ltd. , based in Bangalore, India, set up in the
Philippine city of Cebu in 2007 and now has 2,000 workers in the
country. By 2014, it expects to have 8,000.  24/7 Customer, which started operations in India in 2000,
opened a Philippines office in 2005. It now has 4,000 employees
in the country, compared with 3,000 in India.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd ., India’s largest software
services firm, said Dec. 2 it would open a business processing
outsourcing center in the Philippines.  Doubling Revenue  “It’s very sad that India could not keep up with its
neighbors,” 24/7 co-founder Shanmugam Nagarajan said.  The Philippines outsourcing industry has set a goal of at
least doubling revenue by 2015, Sañez said. The biggest
challenge is the dearth of managerial talent, Rajpal said. In an
industry so young, few people have been around long enough to
handle management or strategy jobs.  “Where are we going to find the right kind of managers who
can make our operations stand out?” said Steve Barker, who
heads Asian operations for  Sitel Worldwide Corp. , a Nashville,
Tennessee-based company that has 10,000 workers and seven
facilities in the Philippines.  The Philippines also produces only about 10 percent as many
engineers as India, according to graduation data from both
countries. India’s ready supply of engineers has helped its
outsourcing firms go from answering phone calls to account
management, technical support and consulting jobs that include
helping banks manage financial derivatives and improving
retailers’ supply chains.  “Ten years down the line, the Philippines may be a hotter
destination,” said Sanjeev Bhatia, who oversees international
operations for Wipro BPO. “But in IT and software, India really
doesn’t have any competition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mehul Srivastava  in New Delhi at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rocks at 
 drocks1@bloomberg.net  