-- U.S. Bank Regulators May Impose Fines, Seek Penalties in Foreclosure Mess
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-12-02T22:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/lapses-in-home-foreclosure-documentation-said-to-cause-chaos-in-courts.html
U.S. bank regulators investigating
foreclosure problems could impose fines or seek criminal
penalties as soon as January, said  Julie L. Williams , chief
counsel of the Office of Comptroller of the Currency.  “There clearly have been breakdowns,” Williams said today
at a House Judiciary Committee hearing in Washington.
Regulators’ findings could serve as a basis for prosecutions and
the development of standards for mortgage servicers, she said.  Lawmakers criticized regulators for not doing enough to
police the industry after  Ally Financial Inc .’s GMAC Mortgage
unit,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Bank of America Corp . temporarily
suspended home seizures in September. Foreclosure and bankruptcy
lawyers have accused the companies of relying on “robo-
signers” who endorsed thousands of foreclosure affidavits
without checking their accuracy.  Under questioning from the committee, Williams and  Phyllis Caldwell , chief of the U.S. Treasury Department’s office of
homeownership, said they learned of problems with robo-signers
from press reports.  “There were no warning signs,” Williams said. “In
hindsight, when you think about the volume of transactions, we
could have been more suspicious.”  The document allegations are compounding problems in the
distressed housing market, where the Treasury’s Home Affordable
Modification Program, or HAMP, has failed to reach its goals for
limiting foreclosures.  ‘Drowning in Bureaucracy’  “Homeowners must rely on the willingness of lenders to
modify any mortgage terms to help save their homes from
foreclosure in a system that is incapable of addressing their
needs,” said Committee Chairman  John Conyers , a Michigan
Democrat. “Homeowners are drowning in bank bureaucracy.”  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, said
he will investigate HAMP when he takes the helm of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee next month.  “This program seems to have outlived its usefulness,”
Issa said. “We can use these funds better elsewhere.”  Lawyers who prepared testimony for the hearing said bank
errors and the complexity of mortgage securitization has harmed
borrowers.  James A. Kowalski, a Jacksonville, Florida, foreclosure
defense lawyer, described a homeowner who is facing simultaneous
foreclosure lawsuits filed by two different trustees both
claiming to own the same loan.  Blaming Securitization  Jacqueline P. Yulee was sued by  Wells Fargo Bank , a trustee
for VNT Trust Series 2010-1, and  U.S. Bank Trust  National
Association, a trustee for Sequoia Funding Trust, both for a
$213,750 loan she took out on her Florida home in 2003.  In separate court filings Kowalski provided to the
committee, Wells Fargo and U.S. Bank each claimed that Yulee’s
loan had been signed over to them.  “It’s a bedrock securitization problem,” Kowalski said in
an interview before today’s hearing. “Once we allowed the
securitization model and the concept of the securitized trust
servicer to run the show, we ended up going down this road.”  Judge F. Dana Winslow, who has presided over more than 1,000
foreclosures as a New York State Supreme Court justice, said
judges might have “inadvertently contributed to the creation of
the foreclosure crisis by accepting, without question, the
submissions of lending institutions seeking foreclosure.”  That could be changing, Winslow said at the hearing.
“Courts have come to recognize the need to scrutinize the
evidentiary submission of lenders and their agents,” Winslow
said.  WFC US <EQUITY> CN
BAC US <EQUITY> CN
JPM US <EQUITY> CN
USB US <EQUITY> CN  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 