-- Europe Tops Hedge Funds' Worry List With Portugal at Risk in Debt Crisis
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-12-02T17:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/argonaut-sees-portugal-risk-as-europe-tops-hedge-funds-worries.html
David Gerstenhaber , founder of $1.6
billion hedge fund Argonaut Capital Management, said Portugal
may be the next casualty of Europe’s debt crisis.  “Portugal is structurally weak,” he said in a telephone
interview from New York. “There’s a 90 percent chance that they
will get some form of help” to keep concern over the country’s
creditworthiness from spreading to Spain and Italy, he said.  Gerstenhaber, 50, is among macro hedge-fund managers who
say Europe’s debt woes pose one of the biggest risks to a global
economic outlook that has only gradually improved this year.
Stocks and the euro retreated in the past month as the crisis
worsened, forcing Ireland to follow Greece and ask for a
bailout. Standard & Poor’s said it may cut Portugal’s credit
rating on concern the country may have to seek a bailout,
something Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  has rejected.  John Taylor , founder of FX Concepts LLC, the world’s
biggest foreign-exchange hedge fund, forecast the euro region
will enter a recession next year and the euro will weaken as the
debt crisis worsens.  “The risk that Spain and Italy will get into trouble is
going to cause the euro to get quite weak,” Taylor said today
at the Hedge Funds New York conference hosted by Bloomberg Link.
Investors should sell German stocks because efforts by
governments to cut back spending will hurt the region’s economy
next year, he said.  Selling Euros  Macro hedge funds have been selling the euro, commodities,
emerging markets, and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures while
buying the dollar and U.S. 10-year notes, Bank of America Corp.
analyst  Mary Ann Bartels  said in a Nov. 29 report.  “Despite the problems in the U.S., Europe’s are worse,”
 Dean Curnutt , chief executive officer of Macro Risk Advisors
LLC, said the Hedge Funds New York conference.  Colm O’Shea , founder of $5.9 billion Comac Capital LLP in
London, and Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP, the $32 billion
hedge fund run by  Alan Howard , both told clients in investor
letters last month that problems in Europe’s “peripheral”
countries may force the European Central Bank to stimulate the
economy longer than planned.  “Fiscal issues and financial stress in some of the euro-
zone peripheral countries are worsening even as the German
economy strengthens,” O’Shea wrote. “These stresses argue for
the ECB to delay its steps away from extraordinary policy.”  ‘Headwinds’  Stocks and the euro rose today after ECB President Jean-
Claude Trichet said the central bank will delay the withdrawal
of emergency liquidity measures and keep buying government bonds
as the debt crisis creates “acute” tensions in financial
markets.  The S&P 500 advanced 0.7 percent at 10:21 a.m. in New York,
led by a rally in financials. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained
1 percent, while the euro rose 0.3 percent to $1.3179.  Brevan Howard, which is run out of London, said efforts by
the U.K. to reduce borrowing may undermine the economic recovery
in that country.  “The intended reduction of the structural deficit by 2.3
percent of GDP next year creates substantial downside risks to
the economy, given already weak underlying growth and ongoing
private sector deleveraging headwinds,” the firm said in the
letter.  The Brevan Howard Master fund returned 1.75 percent this
year through October, according to the report.  Stymied  Macro hedge funds , which seek to profit from broad economic
trends by trading currencies, bonds and commodities, returned
3.2 percent this year through October, compared with 5.4 percent
for the hedge fund industry, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Macro managers have been mainly using currencies and
credit default swaps to make money,” said  Rickard Lundquist ,
portfolio strategist at Stockholm-based SEB AG’s private banking
unit, which invests about $6 billion in hedge funds for clients.
“They have started taking on more risk than they were earlier
in the year, when there was more economic uncertainty.”  Hedge-fund managers were stymied earlier this year as the
European debt crisis, concern about U.S. government borrowing,
uncertainty about new financial regulation and fears of an
economic slowdown in China prompted investors to cut back risk.
While stocks markets stabilized in the second half and fears of
another recession abated, asset managers will have to contend
with volatile markets into next year, said Bank of America’s
Bartels.  QE2  “This year, the bulls have been frustrated and the bears
have been frustrated,” she said in an interview. “Just when
investors thought that there’s a trend, it reverses. These
choppy markets are going to continue into next year, though with
a bias to the upside.”  Global stock markets, as measured by the MSCI World Index,
have  gained  17 percent since the end of June, spurred in part by
the U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision to buy an additional $600
billion in Treasuries to lower borrowing costs and stimulate the
economy.  The Fed measures will encourage investors to take more risk
and keep the dollar from appreciating against the euro, Fortress
Investment Group LLC’s  Michael Novogratz  and  Adam Levinson  said
in a Nov. 15 letter to investors. The program hasn’t been enough
to ignite a sustainable economic recovery in the U.S., they
wrote.  Housing, Consumption  “Even with the better demand data, we do not believe that
the overall trend has been lifted substantially, or that job
gains have clearly moved to a sustainable higher trajectory,”
said the two, who manage about $3.2 billion in macro hedge funds
at the New York-based investment firm. “From our perspective
consumption and housing, in particular, remain big question
marks.”  Spokesmen for Brevan Howard, Fortress and Comac declined to
comment beyond the investor letters.  Novogratz and Levinson said they are closely monitoring the
risk that in the coming months the Fed’s quantitative easing
program won’t be as successful as policy makers and investors
had anticipated.  Fortress’s Macro Fund returned 7.6 percent this year
through October, according to an investor letter.  Gerstenhaber, whose Argonaut Macro Partnership LP fund
returned 4.3 percent through October, said there’s a
“reasonable” chance that the Fed they may step up efforts “if
the economy continues to show modest but not substantial
progress.”  Fed’s Credibility  O’Shea, 40, had told clients in August that the Fed would
risk its credibility with a second round of so-called
quantitative easing because it may have little impact on
economic growth.  Comac returned 1.8 percent this year through October,
according to the letter.  Brevan Howard said while it expects U.S. GDP to accelerate
“a little” next year, elevated unemployment, a weak housing
market and debt reduction measures will restrain the economy.  “There do appear to be more reasons for optimism,” Brevan
Howard said. “However, to expect robust self-sustaining
expansion in the U.S. would be a mistake.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  