-- Harper Says Private Demand to Sustain Canada Recovery
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-12-02T19:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/harper-says-private-demand-is-sufficient-to-sustain-canadian-recovery.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said private demand should be able to maintain the
country’s expansion, even as a “fragile” global economy poses
“considerable risk.”  “Our own read is that private domestic demand should be
sufficient going forward to sustain the recovery that we do
have,” Harper told reporters today in Mississauga, Ontario.
“Domestic demand in Canada actually remains quite robust.”  Harper also said his government will extend until Oct. 31,
2011, a deadline for stimulus funding for infrastructure
projects, saying there is “no harm” in making sure they are
completed.  Canada’s  economy slowed  more than forecast in the third
quarter as a stronger currency restrained exports and boosted
imports.  Gross domestic product  expanded at a 1 percent annual
pace in the third quarter, Statistics Canada said this week,
following an increase of 2.3 percent in the prior three-month
period.  Domestic demand grew 0.9 percent in the third quarter from
the April-June period, compared with 0.3 percent for the economy
as a whole, the agency  also said.   Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , who said in October that
Canadian deficits will total C$165.2 billion ($164.5 billion)
over the 2009-2014 period, had said repeatedly he would be
reasonable in enforcing the original deadline.  Flaherty said last month that next year’s budget won’t
contain new spending measures. He implemented a C$47 billion
stimulus package in his 2009 budget.  The Bank of Canada projected in October that domestic
demand will contribute 3.9 percentage points to growth this year
and add 1.9 points in 2011.  “We continue to be cautiously optimistic going forward,”
Harper said. “I keep saying this all in the context of a global
economy and a global recovery that, as we know, outside of
Canada has considerable risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Mississauga, Ontario at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 