-- Arsenic-Eating Bacteria Found That May Expand Hunt for New Life in Space
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-12-02T20:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/arsenic-based-bacteria-may-assist-hunt-for-life-in-space-science-reports.html
The discovery of bacteria that grows
using deadly  arsenic  as fuel instead of phosphorus, a chemical
building block of most earth organisms, may point seekers of
extraterrestrial life in a new direction.  The bacteria, from  Mono Lake  in California, was grown in
lab dishes where phosphate was slowly replaced with arsenic,
which is poison for most creatures, until the bacteria began to
thrive on arsenic alone, according to a study published online
by the journal  Science . Mono Lake, located at the edge of the
Sierra Mountains, is a 760,000-year-old salt lake with no fish.  All other known life requires phosphorus, according to
research cited by the paper. The discovery of arsenic-eating
bacteria may give scientists searching for extraterrestrial life
a new sign to follow, said  Steven Benner , a distinguished fellow
of the Westheimer Institute at the Foundation for Applied
Molecular Evolution in Gainesville, Florida.  “We’ve cracked open the door for what’s possible,” said
the study’s lead author, Felisa Wolfe-Simon, in a news
conference today. “This will inform us about life on our own
planet, and will help inform us of life -- we will find it one
day -- elsewhere in the universe.”  The elements currently thought to be essential for life are
carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus and sulfur,
according to the paper.  “We’re going to have to look at a microbe and decide
whether it is life or not,” Benner said in a telephone
interview. Right now, one of the things to look for is
 phosphorus , and if today’s finding is confirmed, then a probe to
look for arsenic may also hint at life, said Benner, who was not
a study author.  Mono Lake  Mono Lake, from which the arsenic-eating bacteria were
culled, is salty,  alkaline  and contains heavy arsenic deposits,
according to the paper. Scientists cultured the bacteria in the
lab, slowly switching its “feed” into arsenic. Using radio-
tracers, the team tracked the uptake of the arsenic.  “This result is delightful because I have to expand my
notions” of what environments might allow life, said Pamela
Conrad, an astrobiologist at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center
in Greenbelt, Maryland. “This opens our perspective to
understand what else might be tolerated or essential that we
presently haven’t thought of.”  The research indicates that arsenic even replaced  phosphate 
in the bacteria’s genetic code, a strange finding that will need
replication, said Benner. Arsenic in the DNA isn’t compatible
with other things chemists currently know about the poison, he
said.  ‘Perplexing’  “It’s not obviously wrong, it’s perplexing,” said Benner.
“If this is true, there’s something we fundamentally don’t
understand on the chemistry side.”  Phosphate helps provide energy to cells, and powers many
functions in living creatures. Arsenic, which is directly below
phosphorus on the  periodic table , does many of the same things
less well, and is poisonous to most living things for that
reason, according to a press release from Arizona State
University.  Wolf-Simon started the research while a postdoctoral
scientist at the Arizona university and is now at the NASA
Astrobiology Institute and the U.S. Geological Survey in Menlo
Park, California.  The study was funded in part by the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration’s astrobiology program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 