-- Asbury Automotive Group Sells Heavy Truck Business to Rush Enterprises
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-12-02T17:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/asbury-automotive-group-sells-heavy-truck-business-to-rush-enterprises.html
Asbury Automotive Group Inc. , the
owner of 84 auto dealerships mostly in the southeastern U.S.,
sold its heavy truck business to commercial-vehicle seller  Rush
Enterprises Inc.  to focus on its passenger car sales.  The transaction is expected to be completed in the first
quarter next year, Duluth, Georgia-based Asbury said today in a
statement. Rush said the purchase will expand its network to 64
truck centers and that it expects to pay in cash.  “The sale of our heavy truck business represents a
strategic decision to exit a non-core business,” Asbury Chief
Financial Officer  Craig Monaghan  said in the statement. The
business, which operated as Nalley Motor Trucks, was a part of
the company before Asbury’s initial public offering in 2002,
Monaghan said in an interview.  Asbury said separately that its board authorized a $25
million  buyback  of common stock and closed on the acquisition of
Greenville Automotive Group. The Lexus, Toyota, Jaguar, Porsche,
and Volvo brand stores in Greenville, South Carolina, may
generate annual revenue of about $125 million, Asbury said.  Asbury purchased a St. Louis-area Mercedes-Benz store that
closed in October. The company may “spend a little time
absorbing these stores” before making more acquisitions,
Monaghan said.  Asbury  rose  26 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $16.40 at 12:45
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. New
Braunfels, Texas-based Rush  gained  14 cents to $18.37 in Nasdaq
Stock Market composite trading.  Industrywide light-vehicle sales ran at a 12.3 million
annual pace in November, matching the October rate that was the
fastest this year, researcher Autodata Corp. said yesterday.  “We don’t see any reason to believe that we shouldn’t
continue to see slow improvement moving forward,” Monaghan
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net . 