-- Stocks Gain, Treasuries Fall, on Retail, Home Sales Data
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-03T00:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/asian-stocks-rise-set-for-best-gain-in-a-month-dollar-commodities-climb.html
Stocks advanced, giving the Dow Jones
Industrial Average its biggest two-day rally since July, and oil
increased to a two-year high as U.S. home sales and retail
purchases topped estimates and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised
buying banks.  The Dow climbed 1 percent and is up 3.2 percent this month.
The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  added 1.7 percent and the euro gained
0.5 percent to $1.3209 as the European Central Bank extended an
emergency loan program. Oil surged to $88 a barrel while 10-year
Treasury yields climbed. Spain’s IBEX 35 rallied 2.8 percent and
the 10-year Spanish bond yield fell after demand rose at a note
sale. After the U.S. close, Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures
slid 0.1 percent at 7 p.m. in New York and Japanese stocks rose.  Equities advanced for a second day as a record 10 percent
increase in pending home resales and higher-than-estimated sales
at chain stores from Abercrombie & Fitch Co. to Limited Brands
Inc. added to evidence the U.S. economic recovery is gaining
momentum. Goldman Sachs raised its rating on U.S. financial
stocks to “overweight” and predicted a 20 percent rally in the
S&P 500 by the end of next year as the economy improves.  “The market is being helped by news on home sales and the
latest consumer spending,” said  Alan Gayle , senior investment
strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in Richmond,
Virginia, which oversees $63 billion. “The hope is that if the
economy improves the financial-services stocks will do better.”  Limited, Abercrombie  Banks led gains in the S&P 500 after Goldman Sachs
highlighted JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and Bank of
America Corp. among its “top stock ideas across financials,”
triggering rallies of more than 2.7 percent in each.  All 12 stocks in an S&P gauge of homebuilders advanced at
least 2.2 percent after the National Association of Realtors
said its index of pending home resales jumped a record 10
percent in October.  Abercrombie & Fitch surged 11 percent, the most since March,
after same-store sales topped estimates at the clothing chain.
November comparable store sales rose 5.3 percent at U.S.
retailers, compared with a 3.5 percent estimate, Retail Metrics
Inc. President  Ken Perkins  said in an interview.  Ten stocks rose for each that fell in the  Stoxx Europe 600 .
The ECB delayed its withdrawal of emergency liquidity measures
and bought more government bonds as President  Jean-Claude Trichet  pledged to fight “acute” financial market tensions.
The ECB will offer banks unlimited loans through the first
quarter, he told reporters in Frankfurt.  ECB Debt Purchases  Irish and Portuguese bonds surged as ECB officials embarked
on a new round of debt purchases, according to traders with
knowledge of the transactions. The 10-year Portugal yield
decreased by 55 basis points, or 0.55 percentage point, and
Ireland’s 10-year rate slid 38 basis points.  The ECB met under pressure to stop the debt turmoil from
engulfing Spain, the euro area’s fourth-largest economy, after
the Irish rescue four days ago failed to persuade markets that
policy makers have the resolve needed to contain it.  Spanish banks advanced, with Banco Santander SA rallying
5.1 percent and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, the nation’s
second-biggest lender, gaining 4.2 percent. Spain’s 10-year bond
yield decreased 22 basis points to 5.13 percent.  Credit-default swaps on European debt fell for a second day
amid optimism policy makers will maintain support for the
region’s sovereign bond market. The Markit iTraxx Crossover
Index of credit-default swaps on 50 European companies with
mostly high-yield credit ratings fell 30.5 basis points to 473.  Asian Shares  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rallied 1.7 percent, the most
in a month. Canon Inc., a Japanese camera maker, rose 2.5
percent. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1.7 percent and
is up 3.8 percent over the past two days, its biggest rally
since May. South Africa’s rand, Hungary’s forint and the
Colombian peso led developing-nation currencies, strengthening
more than 1.4 percent against the dollar.  Russia’s Wimm-Bill-Dann Dairy & Juice Co. soared 58 percent
after PepsiCo Inc. said it will acquire 66 percent of the dairy
company for $3.8 billion.  The Spanish three-year note yield slid 34 basis points. The
extra yield investors demand to hold the nation’s 10-year bonds
instead of benchmark German bunds dropped 23 basis points to 227
basis points. Yields on similar-maturity Greek securities fell
16 basis points to 11.65 percent.  Spain sold 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion) of notes due in
October 2013. Demand was 2.27 times the amount sold, compared
with a bid-to-cover of 2.16 at the October sale.  Copper rose 0.8 percent to $3.979 a pound in New York,
while gold for immediate delivery slipped 0.1 percent to
$1,386.52 an ounce. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of
commodities gained 1.4 percent and has surged 4.4 percent over
the past two days, its biggest back-to-back advance since May.  Oil climbed 1.4 percent to $88 a barrel in New York, the
highest settlement price since Oct. 8, 2008. Cotton, wheat and
cocoa jumped more than 3.9 percent each, while gasoline and
orange juiced gained at least 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 