-- Massey's Blankenship Loses Bid for Dismissal From Widows' Suits Over Blast
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r a t t o n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-12-02T23:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/massey-s-blankenship-loses-bid-for-dismissal-from-widows-suits-over-blast.html
Massey Energy Co. Chief Executive
Officer  Don Blankenship  must face two lawsuits holding him
personally responsible for a West Virginia mine explosion that
killed 29 people, a judge ruled.  The widows of William Griffith and Ronald Maynor, who were
killed in the April 5 blast at Massey’s Performance Coal unit,
claim the Richmond, Virginia-based company and Blankenship were
responsible for violations of federal and state safety
regulations that led to the explosion. The CEO was “willfully
negligent” in his direction of the company subsidiaries
operating the mine, they said in separate complaints.  Blankenship asked to be dismissed from the lawsuits,
contending they failed to state a valid claim. West Virginia
Circuit Court Judge William Thompson denied the motion in a Nov.
24 order. He didn’t rule on the merits of the widows’ claims.  “Plaintiff’s complaint provides fair notice to defendant
Blankenship of the plaintiff’s claim made against him, one that
states a valid claim under West Virginia law,” Thompson wrote
in his order in the Maynor case. He entered an identical
decision in the Griffith suit.  The explosion at Performance Coal’s Upper Big Branch
operation in Montcoal, West Virginia, the worst U.S. mine
disaster in 40 years, set off  federal  and state investigations
into its cause.  The lawsuits were filed by Marlene Griffith, the widow of
William Griffith, 54, who had worked at the mine since 1992, and
Helen Maynor, widow of Ronald Maynor, 31, who started there in
2006.  ‘Judicial Lynching’  The claims against the Massey CEO are “a judicial lynching
of Don Blankenship,” his lawyer, Thomas Flaherty, said at an
Oct. 20 hearing on the motion to dismiss the lawsuits.  Flaherty and Jeff Gillenwater, Massey spokesman, didn’t
immediately return calls today for comment.  Blankenship, 60, was too far removed from supervision of
the mine to be held liable and claims against him should be
dismissed, Flaherty told Thompson at the hearing.  “Blankenship is running the great-grandparent” of the
Upper Big Branch mine, Flaherty said. “He has control of UBB
from the 60,000-foot level.”  “Don Blankenship ran these companies negligently,”  Mark
Moreland , the widows’ attorney, said during the October hearing.
“The cause of action is negligence.”  The cases are Griffith v. Performance Coal Co., 10-C-91,
and Maynor v. Performance Coal Co., 10-C-122, Circuit Court,
Boone County, West Virginia (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Stratton  in Logan, West Virginia, at 
 chrisstratton2010@yahoo.com ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 