-- Matahari Says Lotte Is Among Four Retailers Interested in Buying Control
-- B y   W i d y a   U t a m i   a n d   G r e g   A h l s t r a n d
-- 2010-12-03T05:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/matahari-says-four-companies-interested-in-buying-stake.html
PT Matahari Putra Prima , Indonesia’s
biggest retailer by market value, said four companies, including
South Korea’s  Lotte Shopping Co. , are interested in acquiring a
controlling stake. Matahari shares rose as much as 10 percent.  Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch unit is
facilitating discussions with four retailers that may “explore
the modes of investment” that may include a stake sale,
Matahari said in an e-mailed statement. Its stock jumped 7
percent to 1,690 rupiah at the 11:30 a.m. trading break in
Jakarta, headed for the highest close since it was listed
December 1992.  A purchase would give the buyer control over the biggest
rival to Carrefour SA in Southeast Asia’s largest economy, which
is forecast to expand at least 6 percent this year.
 Matahari ’s hypermarket business has annual sales of about
$1 billion that will probably grow 22 percent this year, the
statement said.  “More people tend to shop in convenient stores and the
majority of  Indonesia’s population  are in their productive age,
which is what attracts retailers,” said Betrand Raynaldi, an
analyst at PT eTrading Securities in Jakarta. Matahari’s
hypermarkets "own a large market share in  Indonesia  and their
stores are strategically located," he said.  Wal-Mart, Casino  South Korea’s  Lotte Shopping Co.  is one of the four
retailers that may invest in Matahari, according to the
statement, which didn’t identify the other three suitors.  Wal-
Mart Stores Inc.  and French retailer  Casino Guichard- Perrachon
SA  are among the companies that have looked at the assets,
people familiar with the deal said last month.  Today’s gain boosts Matahari’s climb in Jakarta trading
this year to 92 percent, giving it a market value of about
$1 billion.  Matahari , which means "sun" in Indonesian, has 
51 hypermarkets in Southeast Asia’s most populous nation, where 
domestic consumption accounts for two-thirds of the economy.  Lotte Group , the parent of  Lotte Shopping , has 21 outlets,
Tong Yang Securities Inc. said in a Nov. 4 report. Acquiring a
controlling stake or just the stores would let the South Korean
company overtake  Carrefour SA  as the largest hypermarket
operator in the Southeast Asian nation, the brokerage said.  Retail Network  Carrefour , the world’s second-biggest retailer, in June
opened its 64th hypermarket in Indonesia where it also has at
least 16 supermarkets, according to its website. The French
retailer, which entered Asia in 1989 with a hypermarket in
Taiwan,  opened  its first store in Jakarta in 1998.  Matahari, founded in 1958, also has 25 supermarkets, 53
drug stores, 90 family entertainment centers and 18 book shops
as well as a strategic alliance operating 92 department stores
in more than 50 cities across Indonesia, according to its
statement.  It plans to open at least 13 hypermarkets next year and 80
outlets over the next five years,  Matahari  said.  The possible investors “highlighted potential for
enhancing and expanding the food business with all non-related
assets and liabilities being excluded,” Matahari said.  Lotte’s  Hwang Kag Gyu , executive vice president of
international and new business planning, said Nov. 30 it will
make a final offer for Matahari’s hypermarkets. The deadline for
final bids is likely to be delayed from an original schedule of
early December, he said. Lotte Shopping fell 0.4 percent to
477,000 won in Seoul trading.  Binding Offer  Carlyle Group and Hong Kong’s  Dairy Farm International
Holdings Ltd.  had also looked at the Indonesian retailer’s
assets, three people familiar with the process said last month.  Anthony Rose, Vice President, Corporate Affairs of Wal-Mart
Asia, said the company doesn’t comment on speculation. Dairy
Farm declined to comment in an e-mail.  Casino  was considering a binding offer for the food-
retailing business of  Matahari , two people with knowledge of the
deal said last month. Casino last month agreed to buy
Carrefour’s business in Thailand for 868 million euros ($1.14
billion).  Karine Allouis, a spokeswoman for Casino, and Florence
Baranes-Cohen, a spokeswoman for Carrefour, couldn’t be reached
for comment yesterday.  Lotte Shopping , which said Nov. 12 it had submitted a
letter of intent to buy Matahari’s hypermarket business, has
spent about $1.5 billion on four acquisitions this year,
according to Bloomberg data.  Units of Seoul-based Lotte, whose assets include
petrochemical operations, are expanding in  China , Vietnam,
Indonesia and Russia to tap faster growth and rising affluence
in developing markets.  Lotte Group seeks acquisitions in China and Southeast Asia
as sales overseas in the next decade are likely to expand two to
three times faster than in its domestic market, said Hwang, who
spends about a third of his time abroad.  Matahari  said in October it hired Merrill Lynch to analyze
its business and follow up on interest by companies outside
Indonesia for an investment or partnership. The company sold
control of its department-store arm to a unit of CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. for 7.2 trillion rupiah ($798 million) in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  