-- Australia Regulator Finds `Critical Safety Issue' in A380 Trent 900 Engine
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-12-02T10:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/australia-regulator-finds-potential-flaw-in-a380-trent-900-plant.html
Australia’s  aviation regulator
recommended  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  address a “critical safety
issue” in its Trent 900 engines amid a probe of an explosion
last month on an Airbus SAS A380 flown by Qantas Airways Ltd.  The possible manufacturing defect could lead to an oil fire
and “catastrophic engine failure,” the  Australian Transport
Safety Bureau  said on its  website  today. The potentially
defective component could crack under fatigue, the ATSB said.  Qantas said it is checking its Trent 900 engines following
the regulator’s recommendation. The examination comes less than
a week after the airline resumed A380 passenger services. A Nov.
4 mid-flight powerplant blowup had prompted a 23-day grounding
of its six superjumbos. Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Deutsche
Lufthansa AG are the only other carriers using the Rolls-Royce
Trent 900 on the A380, the world’s largest passenger jet.  “There’s no doubt in Rolls’ mind, and our mind, and now
the ATSB’s mind that the reason why this occurred is a design or
manufacturing problem on the engines,”  Alan Joyce , chief
executive officer of Australia’s largest airline, said in
Melbourne today.  ‘Recover Losses’  Separately, Qantas said it has begun talks with Rolls-Royce
to recoup financial losses and may sue should it fail to reach a
settlement. The Sydney-based airline today started preliminary
legal action to ensure any lawsuit is heard in Australia.  “Today’s action allows Qantas to keep all options
available to the company to recover losses, as a result of the
grounding of the A380 fleet and the operational constraints
currently imposed on A380 services,” it said in a statement.  A London-based Rolls-Royce spokesperson declined to comment
on Qantas’s action.  Rolls-Royce  fell as much as 18.5 pence, or 3 percent, to
600 pence and traded at 615.5 pence as of 9:50 a.m. in London,
valuing the London-based company at 11.5 billion pounds ($18
billion). The stock has lost 6 percent since Nov. 3.  The ATSB comments are “consistent” with what Rolls-Royce
has said on the issue, said Roger Hunt, a Sydney-based external
spokesman for the company. Rolls-Royce, airlines and regulators
are inspecting engines and removing any from service that
display the problem, the ATSB said.  Airbus is working with regulators and customers of Rolls-
Royce to minimize disruptions, said  Sean Lee , a Singapore-based
spokesman for the Toulouse, France-based aircraft manufacturer.  The London-based engine maker will inspect and fix all of
its engines used on the A380 superjumbo planes by the end of
2011, Chief Financial Officer  Andrew Shilston  said at an
investor conference in New York yesterday. “In about a year’s
time, all of the necessary components will be in place and this
will all be behind us,” he said.  ‘Small Component’  The fix to the Trent 900 turbine involves replacing “a
small component inside the engine that’s not costly,” Shilston
said in an interview afterward, declining to offer further
details. The company will shorten the recommended time that the
part is used before it’s replaced, he said.  Singapore Airlines is carrying out checks on its engines to
ensure the safe operation of its fleet, said  Nicholas Ionides , a
spokesman for the carrier. Frank Puttmann, a Singapore-based
spokesman for Lufthansa, wasn’t able to immediately comment.  The engine explosion on the Qantas A380 was probably caused
by an oil fire in one of the plane’s four Trent 900 turbines,
the European Aviation Safety Agency said last month.  The ATSB will tomorrow announce its preliminary findings
into the Nov. 4 incident in which no passengers were injured.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Canberra at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  