-- Australia Retail Sales Unexpectedly Fall, Imports Drop; Currency Declines
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-12-02T02:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/australia-s-retail-sales-in-october-post-sharpest-decline-since-july-2009.html
Australian retail sales unexpectedly
declined in October and imports slumped to the lowest level
since February, sending the local dollar lower for the fifth
time in six days.  Store  sales  fell 1.1 percent, the steepest drop since July
2009, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today, after a
revised 0.1 percent gain in September. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists was for a 0.4 percent
rise.  The report shows consumers reining in spending before the
Reserve Bank of Australia last month increased its benchmark
interest rate for the seventh time in the past 14 months as it
seeks to prevent the economy from overheating. A separate report
today showed the trade surplus widened in October, the same
month the nation’s currency reached parity with the U.S. dollar.  “Households were hunkering down in anticipation of the
November rate hike,” said  Michael Turner , an economist at RBC
Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney. “The trade surplus was driven
by a fall in imports, which fits the picture as consumer goods
imports were lower” and “plays to the RBA on hold in the near
future.”  The local currency declined after the report, falling to
96.41 U.S. cents at 1:29 p.m. from 96.62 just before the data
were released.  Today’s reports add to the case for the RBA to keep the
overnight cash rate target unchanged next week at its last
meeting of the year. Policy makers’ first gathering of 2011 is
scheduled for Feb. 1.  Rate Increases  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  has raised rates to 4.75 percent
from a half-century low of 3 percent in October 2009 to contain
an expected acceleration in inflation as a mining investment
boom stokes the economy.  Tighter monetary policy helped spur a 7.4 percent gain in
the currency against the U.S. dollar this year, the second best
performer among the 16 major currencies.  Today’s trade report showed the surplus widened to A$2.63
billion ($2.53 billion) from a revised A$1.81 billion surplus in
September. Total exports rose 1 percent to A$24.3 billion in
October and imports fell 3 percent to A$21.7 billion.  Australian business confidence fell for a second month in
October as conditions deteriorated to the weakest in more than a
year on declining profitability for retail and construction
companies, according to a private survey released Nov. 9.  Today’s retail report showed spending at cafes and
restaurants declined 4.8 percent and consumers spent 4.6 percent
less on clothing and footwear. Consumers spent 0.5 percent more
on household goods than a month earlier, it showed.  Factories Contract  A release yesterday showed Australian manufacturing
contracted in November for a third month as the nation’s surging
currency eroded demand for exports and higher borrowing costs
curbed consumer spending.  The central bank raised rates on Nov. 2, saying Australia’s
economy is on the verge of a “a large expansionary shock” as
shipments of resources to China boost trade and help lower
unemployment. A period that saw a “moderation” of inflation
“is probably now close to ending,” it said.  The economy expanded at half the pace economists forecast
in the third quarter, growing 0.2 percent from the earlier
period, the worst performance since a contraction at the end of
2008, a government report showed yesterday. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of 21 economists was for a 0.4 percent
gain.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  