-- England's Early Burst Leaves Australia With Worst Test Start for 60 Years
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-12-03T12:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/australia-wins-toss-bats-first-in-second-ashes-cricket-test-in-adelaide.html
Four days after amassing a record
517-1 on the last day of the Ashes cricket opener, England
rattled Australia again with three wickets in 11 minutes as the
series resumed in Adelaide.  Simon Katich ,  Ricky Ponting  and  Michael Clarke  were
dismissed on the first morning as Australia slumped to 2-3, its
 worst start  to a Test innings in 60 years, before many of the
sell-out crowd of 38,615 had made it to their seats.  “It was all happening very quickly,”  Mike Hussey , who top
scored with 93 in Australia’s 245 all out, told reporters. “I
couldn’t really believe it to be honest. Before I blinked I was
out there in the middle.”  Fast bowler  James Anderson  took 4-51 and spinner  Graeme Swann  2-70, including the wicket of Hussey, as Australia was
bowled out before stumps after winning the toss at a ground
where it had scored at least 428 first-innings runs in its past
eight Tests.  “It turned out to be a good toss to lose for us,”
Anderson said. “It was a fantastic start and we obviously
didn’t expect to have them 2-3.”  Jonathan Trott  sparked the early flurry of wickets in the
fourth ball following a mix up between Katich and fellow opener
 Shane Watson , pouncing with a direct hit from square-leg to run
out the left-hander, who hadn’t faced a ball.  ‘Big Focus’  “We place a big focus on the first five overs of the day
and trying to get the momentum going in our favor,” Hussey
said. Katich “was disappointed that we got off to such a poor
start. He was in shock really, more than anything.”  Ponting, playing in his 150th Test at a ground where he’s
score five centuries, lasted just one delivery as he edged an
outswinger from Anderson low to Swann at second slip.  The same pair combined to dismiss Clarke eight balls later
to make the score 2-3, Australia’s worst start to an innings
since 1950 when it was 0-3 against England.  Although Hussey shared half-century partnerships with
Watson,  Marcus North  and  Brad Haddin , England’s bowlers
restricted Australia to its lowest score batting first in an
Ashes Test in Adelaide since 1912.  England opening batsmen  Andrew Strauss  and  Alastair Cook 
negotiated one over before stumps.  “We’ve got to build our innings up,” Anderson said.
“There’ll probably be a tricky period in the morning when the
ball’s new, so if we can get through that, get a big partnership
we’ll hopefully catch up to them.”  The best-of-five contest is tied at 0-0 after England
rallied from a 221-run first-innings deficit by amassing 517-1
to force the draw in Brisbane.  “We’re still pretty upbeat,” Hussey said. “We can take a
lot of heart that England were bowled out for 260 in the first
Test up in Brisbane and came back very strongly. It doesn’t mean
we’ve lost the Test match whatsoever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Adelaide through the Sydney newsroom at 
8601 or  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  