-- Australia's Service Industry Shrank in November on Interest Rate Increase
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-12-02T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/australia-s-service-industry-shrank-in-november-on-interest-rate-increase.html
Australia’s services industry
contracted in November for the sixth time in seven months as
higher borrowing costs and a stronger currency weighed on
spending, a private survey showed.  The performance of services  index  fell 4.5 points to 46.2
in November, Commonwealth Bank of Australia and the Australian
Industry Group said in Sydney today. A figure below 50 indicates
contraction.  The Reserve Bank of Australia last month raised its
benchmark interest rate for the seventh time in the past 14
months as it seeks to prevent the economy from overheating.
Those increases helped stoke an 8.9 percent gain in the local
dollar this year, the second best performance among the 16 major
currencies.  Today’s report “points to a sector continuing to battle
fragile consumer and business spending which has been dampened
by rising interest rates,” Australian Industry Group Chief
Executive  Heather Ridout  said in a statement. “The tourism-
related sub-sectors of accommodation, cafes and restaurants and
personal and recreational services are also battling the
headwinds of the strong Australian dollar.”  The index’s gauge for sales declined to 45.6 from 55.3, and
the reading for new orders dropped to 45 from 52.1. The wages
indicator advanced to 60.1 from 57.4, the report showed.  Today’s report, based on a poll of about 200 companies, is
similar to the U.S. non-manufacturing ISM index.  The report measures sales, new orders, deliveries,
inventories and employment for companies such as banks, real
estate agents, insurers, restaurants, transport firms and
retailers to compile the overall performance of services index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  