-- MRI Brain Scan Test May Lead to Early Autism Diagnosis in Children
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2010-12-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/autism-mri-test-may-detect-disorder-quicker-in-high-functioning-patients.html
Doctors diagnosed autism in children
by using MRI to track brain circuit activity, according to
research that suggests the method may help speed up detection
and add to knowledge of the disorder’s biological base.  In a study of 60 children, half with mild autism and half
with no autism, researchers identified the condition 94 percent
of the time using  magnetic resonance imaging , according to a
study online this week in the journal Autism Research. The scans
helped show how information moves and is processed in the brain.  About one in 110 children in the U.S. have an  autism
spectrum disorder , a developmental disability that can impair
behavior, communication and social interaction, according to the
U.S. Centers of Disease Control and Prevention. By using MRI,
doctors were able to see thought activity by following the path
of electrical impulses in the brain.  “We, for the first time, are able to begin to really see
what is going on in the brain in children who have autism,”
said  Janet Lainhart , an associate professor at the University of
Utah, in a Nov. 23 telephone interview. “That is usually the
beginning of major advances in recognition, treatment and
prevention. This type of research basically brings autism into
modern medicine. Much more work needs to be done, but that’s
exactly where it needs to go.”  Today’s findings build on earlier research of brain imaging
to determine autism and may lead to a way to help doctors
identify the disorder earlier, the researchers said. Current
methods rely on interviews and observations.  The researchers from Harvard University, the University of
Utah, Brigham Young University and the University of Wisconsin
used a MRI test on 30 males ages 8 to 26 years old who had high
functioning, or mild  autism  and also on 30 males who didn’t have
autism.  Brain Wiring  The MRI looked at water diffusion along the axons -- the
nerve fibers that transmit signals in the brain -- to see how
information was being processed, said  Nicholas Lange , the
study’s lead author and an associate professor of psychiatry at
Harvard University, in a Nov. 23 telephone interview. The
researchers looked at areas of the brain responsible for
language, social functioning and emotional behavior.  In those who had autism, the signals moved in many
directions rather than in a single path, Lange said. That
pattern meant it took longer for someone with autism to process
certain information, he said.  The researchers said they replicated their results in a
second, smaller set of patients.  Early Results  “These results are not ready for clinical use,” Lange
said. “They are the best thus far in terms of finding an
important biological basis for the disorder but we don’t want to
raise anyone’s false hope at the moment that they can walk into
a clinic and ask that this test be done.”  James Mulick , a professor in the Department of Pediatrics
and Psychology at Nationwide Children’s Hospital in Columbus,
Ohio, who has studied autism for 35 years, said today’s findings
add to research using brain imaging to diagnose the disorder.
Mulick wasn’t an author on the paper.  “Here they’ve nailed down, in a population some might have
difficulty classifying autism without these measures,
significant structural differences in the brain,” he said in a
Nov. 26 telephone interview. “In order to meet the behavior
criteria for autism, you have to behave differently and the
brain reflects the behavior.”  Using the scan to identify who has autism may also allow
researchers to go back and study patients to help find possible
genes that may have increased their vulnerability to the
disorder, he said.  U.K. Study  U.K. scientists showed in a study published in August in
the Journal of Neuroscience that using MRI detected more than 90
percent of autistic patients who were previously diagnosed using
intelligence tests, psychiatric interviews, physical
examinations and blood tests.  Lange said his study focused on specific areas of the
brain, while the U.K. study looked at the entire brain. The
study published today analyzed brain tissue that transmits
information while the previous report looked at tissue that
helps patients perform functions, he said.  Marguerite Colston, vice president of constituent relations
for the Bethesda, Maryland-based  Autism Society , an advocacy
group that raises awareness about the disorder, said the
organization hopes  studies  like this will ultimately lead to
earlier diagnosis of autism for all children. Currently, the
average age of autism diagnosis in the U.S. is 4 years old. The
group is striving to cut the age of diagnosis in half, she said.  Researchers plan to further study and develop the test.
Additional studies are also needed to see if the test will work
in those who are younger and in those whose autism symptoms are
more severe, the researchers said.  “By refining this method in older individuals and really
knowing what to look for, another important step will be
developing it further so it can detect autism in children before
critical symptoms are manifested,” Lainhart said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  