-- Mazda’s Cool $15,000 Subcompact Heralds New Little Gas-Sippers
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2010-12-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/mazda-s-15-000-subcompact-is-a-cool-little-gas-sipper-jason-h-harper.html
 About three inches long, the
 Mazda  key fob has only three buttons -- door lock, unlock 
and a panic alert.  Touch a mechanism and the metal key flips out like a
switchblade, adding a touch of cool.  Clever and compact, like the car.  Mazda’s new subcompact has five doors including the rear
hatch, a neat trick compared to the current crop of portly
sedans. It is three feet shorter and 1,000 pounds lighter 
than even the average-sized  Honda Accord .  Yet the Mazda’s rear hatch stores nearly as much stuff 
as the Honda’s trunk (13.3 cubic feet versus 14.7), and 
offers far more storage (27.8 cubic feet) with the second 
row of seats folded.  Between a weak economy and federal gas mileage standards,
the U.S. is primed for an influx of small cars. We’ll be 
seeing the cute  Fiat 500  next year for around $15,500, as well 
as a bigger model from  Mini , called the Countryman.  The  Mazda 2  is already on sale, with the manual-
transmission Sport model starting at $14,730. The better-
equipped Touring model I tested came to $16,185. A four-speed
automatic transmission is available for an extra $800.  Mazdas are blessed with personality, a quality which
escapes many economy brands. From the CX-9 SUV down to the Mazda
3, they share excellent steering, a dose of quirkiness and savvy
use of space.  No Clone  While the 3 hatchback is a personal favorite, the 2 is not
simply a clone that’s undergone a magical shrinking ray. It’s
got its own character.  Boy, is it tiny. Its rear wheels are shoehorned underneath
the back bumper, maximizing the length of the wheelbase and
access to the rear door, but also giving it a tilted-forward
look that reminds me of a wheelbarrow.  Many buyers dislike hatchbacks, and the cause isn’t helped
by Mazda’s signature “smile,” on the front grill, a design
oddity I hope goes away.  So while it doesn’t necessarily read adult, the Mazda does
broadcast fun. My test car was a flashy neon green, which set
off the bright red taillights to best effect. This car would fit
right into the merchandise at Target stores -- smart design on a
minimal budget.  Even if it looks like a toy, it doesn’t drive like one.
Hard to believe when you find that the 1.5-liter four-cylinder
wields only 100 horsepower and 98 pound-feet of torque.  Go Loud  Coupled with the five-speed manual, it winds right up to
the 6,300-rpm redline, sending it scrambling down the road. You
have to be aggressive to get the best out of it, but that’s part
of the fun. For such a small thing, the engine is loud, whirring
happily as you wind through the gears.  The suspension shines. Many cars with short wheelbases ride
harshly when cornering on rough asphalt. When I rammed around
sharp corners carrying too much speed, the 2 gamely stayed true
to my driving line while still feeling smooth.  The big upside to the tiny engine and light weight is the
mileage. I saw 34 miles per gallon in mixed driving. The
official estimates are 29 city, 35 country. A hybrid powertrain 
is not the only way to efficiency.  Of course in any subcompact you have to give up something,
and that something is leg room. In the driver’s side, I felt
boxed in. I positioned my seat further back than I would
normally so that my knees weren’t rammed against plastic.
Marathon drives for those over six-feet would be an issue.  Clever Space  It isn’t claustrophobic, though. Part of that comes from
clever use of space. The stick shift sits on its own pedestal
high on the center console, allowing for open air between the
driver and passenger.  What it doesn’t have are a bunch of slick, electronic
amenities. You can forget about navigation systems and seat
heaters. They’re not even offered.  The big ticket items for the interior include a cargo net
($40), and an auto-dimming rear mirror with a compass for $295.
Fancy!  I got an FM stereo, a CD player (who uses them anymore?)
and a switch to turn off the stability control. Oh, and A/C, of
course. And...that’s about it. You can control the trip computer
screen via buttons on the steering wheel.  I envy the lucky teenagers who are invariably going to end
up with this car. With front, side and curtain air bags and
standard stability and traction controls, it will satisfy
parents and keep their kids in the cool cliques.  And if you don’t know how to drive a standard, it’s a great
stick to learn on. Not that you have to be under a certain age
to drive the 2.  The 2011 Mazda 2 Touring at a Glance  Engine: 1.5-liter four-cylinder with 100 hp and 98 lb-ft of
torque.  Transmission: Five-speed manual.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in about 9 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 29 city; 35 highway.  Price as tested: $16,185.  Best feature: Great steering, good gas mileage.  Worst feature: A bit cramped.  Target buyer: Teens or the young at heart.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 