-- Backers of Military Gay Ban May Cite Data From Pentagon Study in Hearing
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-12-02T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/backers-of-military-gay-ban-may-cite-pentagon-study-in-hearing.html
Republicans opposed to ending the U.S.
military’s ban on gays and lesbians serving openly may seize on
a Pentagon study’s finding that members of combat units and
Marines were most likely to say it would have negative results.  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff Admiral  Mike Mullen  and the study’s leaders will
testify today on the conclusions of their 10-month review. The
Senate Armed Services Committee is holding two days of hearings.  A survey that underpinned the study found that while most
military personnel said that repealing the ban would have either
a positive effect, little effect or no impact at all, 40 percent
to 60 percent of respondents from the Marine Corps and the
largely all-male combat units said it would have negative
repercussions.  “Given that Defense Department war-fighting units
expressed significant concerns with the repeal of the ‘don’t ask,
don’t tell’ policy as the nation is engaged in two major combat
operations, and that, with the current policy in place, morale
and re-enlistments are at all-time highs, I remain concerned
with the policy’s repeal,” said Senator  Saxby Chambliss , a
Georgia Republican and a member of the Armed Services panel.  President  Barack Obama , who pledged during his campaign to
repeal the ban, has called for the Senate to take up, before the
end of the year, the repeal legislation that the U.S. House
passed in May. When the next session of Congress begins in
January, the Democratic Senate majority shrinks and the House
reverts to Republican control.  Support from at least two Republicans is needed to reach
the 60 votes required to bring the measure to the Senate floor
for final consideration, possibly as soon as tomorrow.  Opposing Views  “Democrats will say the reports are conclusive and
definitive, and Republicans will say there are two holes -- the
methodology and some of the numbers they think are not as
supportive,” said Christopher Neff, a Washington lobbyist for
the  Palm Center , a policy institute based at the University of
California at Santa Barbara. The center studies and advocates
for allowing gays to serve openly in the military.  Arizona Senator  John McCain , the top Republican on the
Armed Services panel, led opposition to repeal in September,
when the Senate defeated a pre-election bid to pass the
legislation as part of a defense spending measure. He has cited
opposition to repeal from the generals in charge of the Air
Force, the Marine Corps and the Army.  McCain, a former Navy pilot, hasn’t commented on the
Pentagon study since it was released Nov. 30.  “Senator McCain and his staff are currently in the process
of carefully reviewing the Pentagon’s report,” said  Brooke Buchanan , a spokeswoman.  ‘Low Risk’  The study panel concluded that ending the ban would present
a “low risk” to military effectiveness that could be managed.
The study was led by Army General  Carter Ham  and  Jeh Johnson ,
the Defense Department’s general counsel, who also will testify
today.  A Pentagon summary of the study predicted only “some
limited and isolated disruption to unit cohesion and retention”
but no “widespread and long-lasting” problems.  “We are convinced that the U.S. military can adjust and
accommodate this change just as it has others in history,” said
the summary, which also was released Nov. 30.  If the Senate can’t pass a bill that would lift the ban,
Katherine Miller, a 21-year-old who resigned from the U.S.
Military Academy at West Point, New York, in August, won’t be
able to return there to graduate and be commissioned as an
officer in the Army.  ‘Forced to Lie’  “I’ve been forced to lie and create a hetero dating
history,” Miller said in an interview. She said the trust among
soldiers essential to survival in combat dissolved when she was
forced to lie about the fact that she is gay. “It’s not that I
want to talk about it; it’s that I have to actively portray
myself as being something I’m not,” she said.  Miller, who was ranked near the top of her class at West
Point, transferred to Yale University, in New Haven, Connecticut,
where she is a junior. She said she would apply for readmission
to West Point if the ban is lifted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 