-- Barry Diller's IAC Names Blatt Chief as Malone's Liberty Exchanges Shares
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2010-12-02T21:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/barry-diller-s-iac-names-blatt-chief-as-malone-s-liberty-exchanges-shares.html
Barry Diller  stepped down as chief
executive officer of IAC/InterActiveCorp., naming  Greg Blatt  as
his replacement, and  John Malone  exchanged his holdings in IAC
for two online businesses and about $220 million in cash.  Blatt, 42, joined  IAC  in 2003 as general counsel and was
named CEO of the company’s Match.com business last year, the
company said in a statement. Diller will take on the role of
chairman and senior executive, IAC said.  “It’s been clear to me for some time that this company
needs a full time, aggressive and inspirational executive in the
CEO role,” Diller, 68, said in the statement. “While I’m not
going anywhere, IAC, with its operating businesses growing,
large cash resources and virtually no  debt , needs the kind of
leadership that Greg Blatt can bring it in order to continue to
grow and thrive.”  Before joining IAC, Blatt worked at  Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia.  Earlier, he had been an associate at New York law
firms Grubman Indursky & Schindler, as well as Wachtell, Lipton,
Rosen & Katz, the company said.  Separately, Malone, the chairman of Liberty Media Corp.,
exchanged his company’s 12.8 million shares in  IAC  for ownership
of Evite and Gifts.com and $220 million in cash. As a result of
the transaction, Diller has a holding that represents more than
a third of the votes in IAC stock. He was also granted the right
to increase his IAC stake within the next 9 months to give him a
total of 41 percent of the votes in the company.  Shareholder Impact  “What IAC has given up to buy out Malone’s stake seems
very reasonable from an IAC shareholder’s point of view,” said
 Sandy Mehta , an analyst at Hong Kong-based Value Investment
Principals Ltd., which holds stock in the company.  Diller’s exit from the chief executive’s job is a positive
step because he has broader interests, the analyst said.  “You really need a 100 percent hands-on CEO,” Mehta said
in an interview.  IAC  rose 63 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $29.35 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares have risen
43 percent this year.  Liberty Interactive, the Liberty Media tracking stock that
includes the QVC home shopping channel and will include the
businesses acquired from IAC,  rose  19 cents to $15.91. The
shares have gained 47 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net , or
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  