-- Basel Bank Rules May Be Altered for EU, Barnier Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-12-02T15:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/basel-rules-may-be-altered-to-shield-eu-economy-barnier-says.html
The European Union may alter proposed
global bank liquidity and capital rules if they threaten the
economic recovery in the region, said  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief.  Barnier is in charge of the 27-nation EU’s implementation
of an overhaul of bank regulation drawn up by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision. Lenders and some governments
have urged him to modify or drop aspects of the reforms, which
they say will harm banks’ ability to lend.  “We shall carefully adjust the measures in that
agreement” when implementing them in the EU, Barnier said at a
banking conference in Brussels today. EU regulators won’t take
steps that “hinder economic recovery,” he said.  The Group of 20 nations decided to bolster banks’ liquidity
and capital to prevent a repeat of the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression. G-20 leaders last month endorsed
rules, known as Basel III, which will more than triple the
highest-quality capital, such as shareholders’ equity, that
banks must hold to cushion against losses. G-20 leaders
committed in a statement to “implement fully the new bank
capital and liquidity standards.”  Further elements of the rules were agreed upon yesterday by
the Basel committee.  Banking Specificities  Implementation of the reforms must take into account
“European banking specificities,”  Othmar Karas , an EU lawmaker
who guides work on Basel III in the European Parliament, said at
the same conference.  Aspects of Basel III that should be reexamined include its
“one size fits all approach” to banks, and its plans to impose
minimum liquidity standards on lenders, said Karas.  “We are in favor of introducing liquidity ratios at group
level, but the question arises whether such a rule makes sense
for all groups,” Karas said.  Regulators “should be careful” in how they “translate
Basel III into EU regulation,” said Jordi Gual, chief economist
at La Caixa bank. National authorities should retain powers to
take into account local specificities, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 