-- Bavarian Nordic Gets Offers to License Cancer Therapy
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2010-12-02T17:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/bavarian-nordic-gets-drugmaker-offers-to-license-prostate-cancer-vaccine.html
Bavarian Nordic A/S , the Danish
drugmaker developing a prostate cancer treatment, said several
companies have proposed licensing the experimental medicine.  Bavarian Nordic  received a “mid- to high- single-digit”
number of term sheets from prospective partners, Juergen
Langhaerig, head of business development, said yesterday in a
presentation at a Nordic health-care conference that Oslo-based
DnB NOR Markets organized. Term sheets lay out general deal
conditions to be hammered out by parties in further talks.  Bavarian’s Prostvac, which needs additional testing before
the Kvistgaard, Denmark-based drugmaker can seek regulatory
approval, extended cancer patients’ lives by as much as 8.5
months in early trials. That’s more than twice as long as
Dendreon Corp.’s Provenge, the first medicine to train the
body’s immune system to attack cancer cells. Provenge may
generate as much as $1.75 billion in 2014 if the U.S. government
agrees to pay for the $93,000 treatment.  Companies that have submitted term sheets are “a mix of
international pharmaceutical companies,” Rolf Sass Soerensen, a
spokesman for Bavarian, said today. “Some are the largest
companies in the world, the top 10, and some are mid-sized,
fast-growing companies.”  Share Sale  Bavarian Nordic this week raised 205 million kroner ($36
million) that the company said would enable it to negotiate a
better deal for Prostvac. The drugmaker sold 1.05 million new
shares at 195 kroner each in a private placement.  Bavarian rose 13 kroner, or 5.9 percent, in Copenhagen
trading to 235 kroner, the highest price since Aug. 6. The stock
has climbed 69 percent in the past 12 months.  Prior to the share sale, the drugmaker had expected to end
the year with 250 million kroner in cash, including a 100
million-kroner credit facility. Expenditures for the first
quarter of 2011 were forecast at 200 million kroner.  “We now have the strength not to be squeezed in our
discussions,” Soerensen said.  Bavarian wants a partner with strong global distribution
and marketing power, co-promotion rights in some big markets,
and “the correct financial terms,” he said. The company is
considering funding part of the third and last trial needed to
gain regulatory approval, he said.  The research is scheduled to begin next year. U.S.
regulators are expected to approve its structure “relatively
soon,” Soerensen said. “That will be the last regulatory
hurdle in the process toward phase 3,” he said.  The drugmaker received fast-track designation in April from
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the vaccine’s use in
men whose cancer is worsening despite treatment.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Frances Schwartzkopff  at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  