-- Berlusconi Government May Lose Lower House Confidence Vote, Ex-Ally Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-12-02T15:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/berlusconi-government-may-lose-lower-house-confidence-vote-ex-ally-says.html
A former ally of  Silvio Berlusconi 
said the Italian prime minister can no longer rely on a
parliamentary majority as there are enough votes in the lower
house to topple him.  Italo Bocchino , secretary of the Future and Liberty for
Italy party formed by Speaker of the Chamber  Gianfranco Fini ,
said 317 of the 630-member representative body may vote against
Berlusconi in a confidence vote planned on Dec. 14. Bocchino’s
comments, first reported by news agency Ansa, were confirmed
today by his spokesman Gianmario Mariniello.  Members of Future and Liberty decided today to lodge a
joint motion of no-confidence together with centrist groups at
the lower chamber. The main opposition Democratic Party and
Italy of Values have already presented their motion. Berlusconi,
74, may have enough backing in the upper house, the Senate, to
survive the vote and early elections are not a certainty even if
the government falls.  President  Giorgio Napolitano  would first consult the
parties to see if another government may be formed with or
without Berlusconi as its head, before calling for a vote.  Tensions between Berlusconi and Fini, who co-founded the
premier’s  People of Liberty party  in 2008, peaked as four
members of Liberty for Italy stepped down from the government
last month in a move designed to bring down the administration.
On Nov. 7, Fini called for Berlusconi’s resignation.  This month’s confidence vote may coincide with an Italian
Constitutional Court decision set for Dec. 14 on the validity of
a law passed by the government granting Berlusconi and other top
officials immunity from prosecution while in office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 