-- Best Buy, Amazon.com Try to Reach Shoppers Through Their Phones
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-12-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/best-buy-amazon-com-use-phones-to-reach-shoppers-swipe-sales-from-rivals.html
Best Buy Co. , the world’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer, doesn’t just want you to buy
mobile phones this holiday season. It wants you to use the
devices to shop for the rest of your gifts.  Best Buy,  Home Depot Inc.  and  Amazon.com Inc.  are among the
retailers ramping up efforts to let shoppers scan bar codes, get
discounts and find product information on their phones.  The idea is to boost sales by making it easier for
consumers to compare prices, read product reviews and make
impulse purchases wherever they are -- even in a rival’s store.
Buying via mobile phones is set to triple to $3 billion in the
U.S. this year and reach $6 billion next year, according to
market research firm Aite Group LLC in Boston.  “Mobile represents an enormous opportunity for
retailers,” said  Dave Sikora , chief executive officer at Digby,
an Austin, Texas-based company that helps retailers with their
mobile strategies. “In 2008 and 2009, mobile started out as a
science project. It’s accelerated so fast that it’s becoming
more mission-critical for retailers to deliver a mobile
experience in a professional way.”  Shoppers using smartphones will account for at least $127
billion, or 28 percent, of the $447 billion the National Retail
Federation predicts consumers will spend this holiday season,
according to  IDC Retail Insights .  M-Commerce  Mobile commerce, known as m-commerce, may gain market share
faster than traditional online retailing, said  Mary Meeker , a
partner at Menlo Park, California-based venture capital firm
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. Meeker is best known for
predicting the rise of e-commerce while an analyst at Morgan
Stanley.  Promotions on mobile phones encourage impulse purchases,
and knowing the specific location of shoppers lets merchants
deliver coupons and offers to users when they’re most likely to
spend. That may be a boon for retailers, she said.  “Mobile is going to be transformative in terms of how
consumers interact and have access to almost everything,” said
 John Thompson , general manager of BestBuy.com, the Richfield,
Minnesota-based company’s online division. “We anticipate this
continuing to grow, just as we expect our smartphone business to
continue to grow.”  Mobile-application companies, such as  Barcode Hero  and
Fashism, also stand to benefit. They focus on helping shoppers
make purchase decisions through reviews and social networking.
Product search engine  TheFind.com  released a shopping app last
month that generates an ad for Best Buy when a consumer scans
electronics products in rival stores.  Video Demonstrations  Golfsmith International Holdings Inc.  introduced a mobile
app this year that shows video demonstrations of golf clubs and
advertises sales on tennis and golf gear. Home Depot’s app lets
shoppers calculate how much paint is needed to freshen a room.  Even with the uptake in mobile apps, the U.S. is playing
catch-up to Asia and Europe, where paying for items with phones
is more widespread. About 8 percent of consumers in the U.S.
have bought something with a phone. That compares with 32
percent in Taiwan, which tops the list of major industrialized
countries, according to  IE Market Research Corp.  Finland was No.
1 in Europe, at 13 percent.  Mobile shopping isn’t always as smooth an experience as
with a regular Web browser. The top 15 retailers’ mobile sites,
which include Amazon, Best Buy and Dell Inc., run slower, crash
more often and are less consistent than their regular sites,
according to Gomez, a research firm that measures the
performance of websites.  Blast From the Past  “Mobile websites are reminiscent of where the overall Web
was 10 years ago, performance-wise,” said Matt Poepsel, a vice
president at Gomez, part of Detroit-based Compuware Corp.  U.S. companies have made strides in creating ways for
consumers to pay by mobile phone, particularly since Apple Inc.
introduced the iPhone in 2007, said  Paul Jacobs , CEO of Qualcomm
Inc., the biggest producer of chips for wireless handsets.  “The phone is going to be the payment mechanism of the
future,” Jacobs said in an interview last month. “You’ll
probably just scan whatever thing it was that you’re buying. It
will cause the checkout to happen. It will cause the security to
happen, so that when you walk out of the door it won’t ring the
bell.”  Almost 60 percent of mobile consumers expect to use their
phones to help with shopping plans and holiday celebrations this
season, according to the  Mobile Marketing Association , a New
York-based trade organization.  “You’re going to see folks completing a lot more
transactions on their device, wherever they are,” said Digby’s
Sikora. “It’s incumbent on the retailer to develop a great
experience once the consumer gets in the door.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  