-- Birmingham's McLeish Says Soccer Violence Brings Back `Dark Ages': Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-12-02T11:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/birmingham-s-mcleish-says-soccer-violence-brings-back-dark-ages-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from European newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Birmingham Violence  Violence by fans at Birmingham’s Carling Cup match with
Aston Villa brings soccer “back to the dark ages,” manager
 Alex McLeish  said, according to the Telegraph.  Supporters invaded the field, injuring 14 people, including
4 policemen, the newspaper said. A flare was thrown back and
forth by the fans, and seats were ripped up and thrown, the
newspaper said.  The flareup happened just the day before England appealed
to FIFA to allow the country to host the 2018 World Cup.  Adebayor Forces Hand  Manchester City  player Emmanuel Adebayor is trying to force
a loan move to  Tottenham Hotspur  in January after a series of
arguments with his manager Roberto Mancini, the Daily Mirror
reported.  Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  wants City to pay half of
Adebayor’s 120,000 pounds-a-week ($187,716) wages.  City Mull Carrico Bid  Manchester City may bid as much as 12 million pounds for
 Sporting Lisbon  central defender Daniel Carrico, the  Daily Mail 
reported. City has watched the 22-year-old “extensively” in
the last year, the paper said.  Chelsea Chases Brazilian Keeper  Chelsea  may pay as much as 3.5 million pounds for Brazilian
goalkeeper Guilherme, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The 24-year-old Lokomotiv Moscow player could join the
London team as backup for first-choice goalkeeper Petr Cech.  Terry’s Weekend Return?  Chelsea player  John Terry  may return from injury this
weekend against Everton, the  Guardian  reported.  The former England captain has undergone “extensive”
physiotherapy in London and Milan to relax the muscle that had
been troubling his sciatic nerve, the paper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  