-- BMW Tapped $3.6 Billion in Federal Reserve Funds During Financial Crisis
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2010-12-02T11:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/bmw-tapped-3-6-billion-in-federal-reserve-funds-during-financial-crisis.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the
world’s largest maker of luxury cars, secured funds from the
U.S. Federal Reserve during the financial crisis to boost
liquidity as other sources dried up.  BMW’s largest transaction under the Fed’s Commercial Paper
Funding Facility was for $3.62 billion on Jan. 30, 2009,
according to data released yesterday.  BMW  made “intermittent”
use of the Fed program for refinancing at a time when other
forms of credit were frozen,  Mathias Schmidt , a spokesman for
the Munich-based automaker, said today.  “We tapped into this program in 2008 and 2009 during the
financial crisis like other companies,” said Schmidt. “It
supported our financial profile and offered us an additional
funding source, especially at times when the money markets and
capital markets did not function properly and efficiently.”  The  maker  of BMW, Mini, and Rolls-Royce autos spent $750
million to expand its factory in South Carolina to assemble the
X3 sport-utility vehicle. The plant, which also makes the X5 and
X6 SUV models, exports vehicles to more than 120 countries,
including Germany and China. Last year, the U.S. was BMW’s
second-largest market after Germany, accounting for 19 percent
of deliveries.  “The BMW Group weathered the economic and financial crisis
very successfully,” and even generated positive free cash flow
in 2009, “when most other auto companies suffered a lot,” said
Schmidt. “The diversified and international treasury operations
helped to deal with these challenges.”  BMW  recorded an adjusted free cash flow of nearly 1.5
billion euros ($2 billion) last year, as net income declined to
204 million euros, its lowest profit in a decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 