-- BofA Drags Balance Sheet Confidence Backward: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2010-12-02T02:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/bofa-drags-balance-sheet-confidence-backward-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
The more we learn about the mortgage
industry’s documentation snafus, the more troubling hints we get
that the financial statements of some of our biggest banks may
be less reliable than anyone imagined.  Here’s the latest: Thanks to a Nov. 16 court ruling in
Camden, New Jersey, we now know that a Bank of America Corp.
employee, Linda DeMartini, testified last year that the lender
routinely retained possession of mortgage promissory notes and
related documents, even after loans were packaged into bonds
that were sold to investors. If we’re to believe what she said,
it raises the prospect that some of those loans still should be
on Bank of America’s balance sheet today.  Contracts for such securitizations usually require the
documents to be transferred to the trustee for mortgage
bondholders, as Bloomberg News noted in a Nov. 30 article on
DeMartini’s testimony. If the papers weren’t delivered properly,
that tees up the question of whether any loan transfers were
improperly treated as sales for accounting purposes, and whether
the bank’s assets and liabilities may be understated.  DeMartini’s statements also place Bank of America’s
outside auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, in a tough spot.
The firm has no choice now under U.S.  auditing standards  but to
find out definitively if what DeMartini said is correct, and
whether the answer would affect any of its prior audit
conclusions. PwC billed Bank of America $128 million for its
audit and other services last year. The mortgage at issue in the
court ruling was originated in 2006 by Countrywide Financial,
which Bank of America bought in 2008.  Your Witness  Bank of America is disavowing DeMartini’s testimony, which
isn’t surprising considering the stakes. The bank’s P.R. office
says DeMartini, a team leader in the lender’s mortgage-
litigation management department, had no idea what she was
talking about and wasn’t in the right job to know the correct
facts, even though the company flew her in from California to
testify as its witness. The company also says its local New
Jersey attorneys botched the court case.  “The testimony is just wrong,” said  Laurence Platt , an
attorney at K&L Gates LLP in Washington, whom the bank
designated to field questions about the case. “Countrywide’s
policy and practice has been and remains to fully comply with
the pooling and servicing agreements, including forwarding any
necessary documents to the trustee.”  A Bank of America spokesman,  Jerry Dubrowski , declined to
answer questions about PwC, but said it was premature to
speculate on the need for any accounting reviews. A PwC
spokesman,  Steven Silber , declined to comment. Countrywide’s
financial filings show the company sold more than $1 trillion of
loans from 2005 to 2007, primarily in the form of securities.  Last Thing  The last thing investors need now, of course, is a new
reason to worry about a too-big-to-fail bank’s accounting. The
company’s regulators would have every incentive to keep any
serious problems from coming to public light, for fear of
destabilizing the financial markets. PwC and the other major
accounting firms haven’t exactly covered themselves in glory,
either, since the financial crisis began in 2007.  What Bank of America can’t do is take back DeMartini’s
words. During an August 2009 hearing, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 Judith Wizmur  asked DeMartini whether the mortgage notes were
“ever moved to follow the transfer of ownership,” according to
a transcript released last week. Wizmur was presiding over a
suit filed against Countrywide in 2008 by a debtor, John T.
Kemp, as part of his Chapter 13 bankruptcy proceedings.  DeMartini replied: “I can’t say that they’re never moved
because, I mean, with this many millions of loans as we have I
wouldn’t presume to say that, but it is not customary for them
to move.” Bank of America’s attorney at the hearing backed up
her account, saying the notes weren’t moved in part because of
the risk of losing them.  Little Attention  At one point DeMartini told Wizmur she wouldn’t be
comfortable testifying about the extent to which notes were
moved. She didn’t back off her statement about what was
customary, though. DeMartini, who remains an employee, declined
to comment.  The possibility that mortgage irregularities might point to
accounting errors has received little public attention, compared
with the robo-signer foreclosure scandal and mortgage-bond
investors’ refund demands.  Generally speaking, for the transfer of a financial asset
to qualify as a sale for  accounting purposes , there must be a
true sale at law. Otherwise, the transaction may have to be
treated as a secured borrowing. One condition for sale treatment
is that the party receiving the asset must have the right to
pledge or exchange it. If the purchaser never received all the
necessary paperwork, it might not have gained those rights or
the ability to control the asset.  As for the New Jersey case, Judge Wizmur rejected a claim
on Kemp’s home, ruling that Countrywide, which serviced his
mortgage, failed to transfer the note to the trustee, as
required by the Countrywide securitization contract covering his
loan. DeMartini, who joined Countrywide about 10 years ago,
testified that Kemp’s note never left the company’s possession.  If all this really was some kind of a mistake, it’s a
doozy. This much is clear: The judge believed her.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Jonathan Weil  in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  