-- Bombardier Profit Slides on Sluggish Demand for Business, Commercial Jets
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-12-02T16:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/bombardier-quarterly-profit-falls-15-percent-on-sluggish-new-plane-sales.html
Bombardier Inc. , the world’s third-
biggest planemaker, said quarterly profit slid 16 percent amid
sluggish demand for commercial and business jets.  Net income  through Oct. 31 dropped to $141 million, or 8
cents a share, from $167 million, or 9 cents, a year earlier,
Montreal-based Bombardier said today in a statement. Earnings
trailed the 9-cent average of 19 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales fell 13 percent to $4 billion, below the
average projection of $4.5 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Pierre Beaudoin is seeking buyers
for the 110-seat CSeries aircraft and adding two new business
jets as he works to build the order book. Bombardier said
yesterday that bigger rival Airbus SAS’s decision to add new
engines to its A320 probably won’t hurt CSeries sales.  “In aerospace, leading indicators are still sending mixed
signals as to the timing of the recovery,” Beaudoin said on a
conference call with analysts today. “However, the fundamentals
are strong in the long-term for both business and commercial
aircraft, and Bombardier Aerospace continues to invest in its
product development.”  Bombardier fell 12 cents, or 2.5 percent, to C$4.65 at
11:18 a.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange  trading . The shares earlier
dropped as much as 4.8 percent, the biggest intraday decline
since Nov. 15.  Bombardier’s total order backlog was at $48.9 billion on
Oct. 31, up from $47.4 billion on July 31.  Sales at the aerospace unit fell to $1.8 billion from $2.1
billion. Revenue at the transportation unit, which makes subway
cars and locomotives, dropped to $2.2 billion from $2.5 billion.  Possible Orders  The aerospace group won 23 net orders in the quarter
compared with seven a year earlier. Those figures include
cancellations of earlier orders. The group delivered 53 planes
from 61 last year. The backlog, at $16.2 billion as of Oct. 31,
is down from $16.7 billion as of Jan. 31.  Gary Scott , who runs Bombardier’s commercial aerospace
division, said in an interview yesterday that Bombardier remains
in advanced discussions with a handful of customers for the
CSeries jet, which aims to compete in the smaller portion of the
single-aisle market with Airbus and Boeing Co. He declined to
say whether any orders would be announced by year-end.  Economic conditions are the main driver of airline choices,
and airlines are in a “much better mood,” Scott said.  Earnings will probably improve as Bombardier’s aerospace
unit benefits from initial deliveries of the CRJ 1000 regional
jet in the quarter ending in January,  Nick Heymann , a New York-
based analyst with Sterne Agee & Leach, wrote in a note to
investors today. He has a “buy”  rating  on the shares.  “A critical factor will be additional C-Series orders,
which we continue to believe will be forthcoming over the next
two to three quarters,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  