-- Five Members of Debt Panel Oppose Bowles-Simpson Plan, Enough to Reject It
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2010-12-03T00:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/bowles-simpson-deficit-cutting-proposal-is-within-one-vote-of-rejection.html
Five members of President  Barack Obama ’s debt commission said they oppose its $3.8 trillion
budget-cutting proposal, enough to ensure rejection of the plan.  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Democrat,
incoming House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a
Republican, said they will vote against the  plan  tomorrow.  Andy Stern , former president of the Service Employees International
Union, also will vote no, said spokeswoman Christine Bonanno.
Earlier, Representatives  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, and
 Jan Schakowsky , an Illinois Democrat, said they were opposed.  The plan requires approval from 14 of the panel’s 18
members to forward it to Congress, meaning five “no” votes
would kill it.  Panel co-chairmen  Erskine Bowles  and  Alan Simpson  yesterday
unveiled the revised plan to overhaul the budget in part by
raising taxes by $1 trillion and scaling back or eliminating
hundreds of tax deductions, exclusions and credits such as those
letting homeowners write off interest on their mortgage
payments.  The recommendations are “wrong for Montana and wrong for
rural communities across the country,” Baucus of Montana said
in a statement. While reducing the deficit is “imperative,” he
said, “we cannot cut the deficit at the expense of veterans,
seniors, ranchers, farmers and hard-working families.”  Coburn, Crapo  Earlier today, Republican Senators  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma
and  Mike Crapo  of Idaho said that while they didn’t like many
elements of the plan, they would support it because they said
the nation’s fiscal challenges must be addressed. That raised
the number of commission members supporting the plan to nine.  “I would have written a totally different plan,” Coburn
told reporters, while adding that the U.S. needs to “get out of
this hole.”  Camp of Michigan said the proposal “fails to address the
increased health-care spending that would result from the new
health-care law.” He also said he opposed provisions that would
raise taxes.  Baucus said a proposal to increase the gas tax “would hurt
folks in rural states like Montana where we often have to travel
long distances.” He cited cuts to farm subsidies along with
Social Security and Medicare and said they would
disproportionately hurt rural states with large numbers of older
residents.  Cutting Taxes  The Bowles-Simpson approach would cut individual and
corporate income taxes, reduce spending on Medicare by more than
$400 billion and trim Social Security benefits. It calls for
$1.6 trillion in reductions to so-called discretionary spending
by the government, about evenly divided between security and
non-security related programs.  The package would reduce the annual federal deficit from
$1.3 trillion this year to about $400 billion by 2015 and start
reducing the $13.7 trillion national debt.  Other proposal backers are by Senator  Judd Gregg , a New
Hampshire Republican; Senator  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota
Democrat;  David Cote , chairman of Honeywell International Inc.;
 Ann Fudge , former chief executive officer of Young & Rubicam
Inc.; former Congressional Budget Office Director  Alice Rivlin ,
along with Bowles, a former chief of staff to President  Bill Clinton , and Simpson, a former Republican senator from Wyoming.  Ryan said today he would oppose the plan because it doesn’t
go far enough in repealing the health-care overhaul approved
earlier this year, which he said would only worsen the
government’s fiscal woes.  “You cannot fix this problem without taking on health
care,” Ryan said. The plan “doesn’t even take a step in the
right direction. It takes many steps in the wrong direction from
my perspective.”  Schakowsky said the plan included too many cuts, including
ones that would come at the expense of Social Security and
Medicare beneficiaries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 