-- Oil-Drilling Regulator May Need ‘Impenetrable Wall’
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-12-02T21:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/bp-safety-lapses-appear-to-be-chronic-panel-s-staff-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s bid to end
what he called a “cozy relationship” between energy companies
and drilling regulators may not be enough, the co-chairman of a
panel investigating  BP Plc ’s spill said.  Obama may need further action to remove potential conflicts
among regulators,  William K. Reilly  said today at a meeting in
Washington of the National Commission on the BP Deepwater
Horizon Oil Spill. The panel also sought to dispel the idea that
BP alone is to blame for the April 20 blast that killed 11
workers, spewed crude for 87 days and shut a third of the Gulf
of Mexico to fishing.  Less than a month after the blowout, Obama vowed to upend a
system in which regulators enforcing safety and environmental
rules also awarded leases and collected fees. Interior Secretary
 Ken Salazar  began reorganizing the agency on May 19.  “Secretary Salazar has recognized the need to separate
leasing and revenue generation from the environmental and safety
regulation,” Reilly said. “We will consider today whether to
recommend that he go further and construct an impenetrable wall
with environmental and safety regulators insulated from those
who auction leases.”  In revamping the agency, Salazar replaced the Minerals
Management Service, which generated about $13 billion a year by
partnering with companies such as BP and  Exxon Mobil Corp . to
develop oil and natural gas, with separate offices that oversee
leases, drilling safety and fee collection. The heads of the new
offices report to Salazar’s associate directors.  Outside Interior  At a Sept. 27 commission hearing, Reilly asked Salazar if
he had considered shifting some authority outside of the
department.  “I know it’s unfair to ask a Cabinet officer to talk about
how seriously he might have considered moving an enterprise
outside his own agency, but has that come up?” Reilly said.  Salazar responded: “The reorganization which we have put
forward essentially is an effort to deconflict the missions.”  In May, the Interior Department inspector general said that
employees in the unit’s Lake Charles, Louisiana, office,
including some assigned to inspect offshore drilling platforms,
accepted gifts from oil and gas companies. The agency, created
in 1982, is too close to the companies it regulates,
Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican who will
lead the House Oversight Committee in the new Congress starting
next year, said in May.  The oil-spill commission, appointed by Obama, plans to
release its recommendations in January.  ‘Glacial Pace’  “Anything that sounds like more reform and additional
regulation serves to further slow the already glacial pace of
permitting at Interior,”  Michael McKenna , a Republican oil-
industry lobbyist and president of MWR Strategies Inc. in
Washington, said in an interview. Regulators need to “stop
shuffling around, set some things in stone, and alert their
workforce that it is OK to begin moving forward.”  Obama in September asked Congress for $100 million for the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, the unit Salazar set up to
oversee offshore leasing. Funding would come from doubling
inspection fees paid by offshore oil and gas operations and
transfers from Interior Department accounts, Obama said.
Congress failed to act on the request.  “To protect the public interest, the Interior Department
will require more funds, more inspectors, more engineers,”
Reilly said, urging Congress to authorize funds. “The money
from oil and gas leases should be more than sufficient to
finance the agency reformation that is needed.”  Chronic Issues  In a presentation, the commission’s staff said  BP  safety
lapses appear to be chronic, and the company’s culture still
needs improvement.  “BP’s history of cost-cutting and resulting problems
across all business segments and over many years suggests
systemic corporate culture issues,” the staff said.  Reilly said responsibility for the spill at the well,
called Macondo, must be shared among BP and its two main
contractors.  Transocean Ltd.  owned the rig that exploded, and
 Halliburton Co . supplied cement to plug the well.  The three companies “were heavily involved in the
decisions that are most questionable,” Reilly said. “This
perception in some quarters of the oil and gas industry that
Macondo was the consequence of one company’s bad decisions
simply doesn’t stand.”  Halliburton’s Cement  In October, the commission found that Halliburton knew
cement it mixed for the doomed well was unstable as much as two
months before the April blowout. Halliburton disputed the
finding, saying cement that was cited for flaws in February was
different from the mix used to plug the well.  Commission staff recommended raising the liability limits
drillers face in the event of a spill. Congress has debated
measures that would remove a $75 million cap in place since
1990.  “The current system is just totally inadequate,” said
 Frances Beinecke , a commission member and president of the New
York-based Natural Resources Defense Council environmental
group. “It’s just fortunate the company was of a size that it
could make a commitment to the American public to meet these
obligations.”  BP agreed in June to establish the $20 billion fund that
will compensate victims of the Gulf spill.  Commissioner  Frances Ulmer , chancellor of the University of
Alaska Anchorage and a former Alaska lieutenant governor, said
limits on payments from a fund authorized in 1990, after the
Exxon Valdez tanker spill, also need to be raised.  While more than $1.6 billion remained in the Oil Spill
Liability Trust Fund at the end of September, the law limits
disbursements for one incident to $1 billion, even if oil
companies reimburse the government for the costs. An 8-cent-per-
barrel petroleum tax finances the fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 