-- Brazil Congress Makes Petrobras Sole Pre-Salt Operator
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2010-12-02T21:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/brazilian-congress-allows-petrobras-to-be-sole-operator-of-pre-salt-fields.html
Brazil’s lower house of Congress
approved new oil regulations that will increase government
control over the energy industry and reduce competition against
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA , the state-controlled producer.  The regulations approved yesterday allow  Petrobras , as the
company is known, to be sole operator of oil fields where
licenses haven’t yet been auctioned. The oil producer will be
able to explore every field in areas designated “strategic.”
The bill needs the president’s signature.  Brazil is tightening the state’s grip on the domestic oil
industry after the discovery of the Tupi and Libra fields, which
may hold as much as 8 billion barrels of oil and 15 billion
barrels, respectively.  “This represents a strong position of the state to keep
this wealth,” Petrobras Refining Director  Paulo Roberto Costa 
told reporters today in Rio de Janeiro.  The new legislation will grant  Petrobras  a minimum 30
percent stake in joint ventures that bid for exploration
licenses. The government expects other oil companies to bid for
the rights to explore fields as Petrobras’s partner. The
companies that offer the biggest share of oil output to the
government will win the contracts.  The bill defines strategic areas as fields in the so-called
pre-salt region along Brazil’s coast and fields “with low
exploratory risks and high oil output potential.” Under current
laws, Petrobras is required to compete equally with other
companies for exploration and production accords.  Social Funding  The bill also allows non-producing Brazilian states and
cities to receive more royalties from the sale of oil and
creates a fund to finance social programs with future oil
revenue. Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva has said
the South American country is relying on its oil wealth to help
lift the nation’s 192 million residents from poverty.  Petrobras faces the risk of being “overwhelmed” with
projects, given its extensive capital expenditure program, Banco
Santander SA analysts  Christian Audi  and Vincente Falanga Neto
said in a note to clients today.  “Although the government constitutes the majority of
Petrobras’s board of directors, and is, thus, aware, of how full
the company’s portfolio of upstream projects is and how its
capex is, this does not guarantee that the government will not
require a sizable signing bonus,” they said.  Petrobras Investment  Petrobras aims to invest $224 billion through 2014 to
develop reserves in a deep-water region along Brazil’s coast.
The budget doesn’t include any projects under the new law.  The pre-salt region runs 800 kilometers (500 miles) along
the coast from Espirito Santo state to Santa Catarina state and
has oil deposits beneath a layer of salt resting as deep as
3,000 meters (9,843 feet) beneath the ocean surface and another
5,000 meters under the seabed.  The new rules allow Brazil to start auctioning exploration
areas in deep waters of the Atlantic Ocean next year, said  Luisa Palacios , an analyst at Medley Global Advisors. Brazil stopped
selling deep-water blocks in 2007 after it announced reserve
estimates for Tupi.  “You finally have clarity -- legislative clarity -- on the
rules of the game going forward, and that is important for
Brazil to renew the auction process,” Palacios said in a
telephone interview from New York.  Libra will be the first field the government sells next
year under the new model,  Magda Chambriard , a director at
Brazil’s oil regulator, said in September. Brazil will still be
able to boost production quickly even if it takes longer to
organize an auction, Palacios said.  "There is so much in the pipeline at this time it does not
affect the very positive production outlook in Brazil," Palacios
said. "Brazil will remain the most important non-OPEC story
going forward."  Link to Company News :{PETR4 BZ <Equity> CN < GO>}  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  