-- Bruised Obama Still Unaware He’s in a Fight: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2010-12-02T02:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/bruised-obama-still-unaware-he-s-in-fight-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
“ Stop it .”  That’s the message Representative  Eric Cantor  of Virginia
said voters wanted him to carry to President  Barack Obama  at the
White House Slurpee Summit, an appropriate name for something
momentarily colorful and tasty with no nutritional value.  In my parental playbook, “Stop it” is often followed by
“Go to your room,” which in Obama’s case is the Oval Office,
an inconvenient fact for Republicans reluctant to acknowledge
that he’s president.  The way Republicans see it, the results of the midterm
elections put them in charge. Now the president must pay
deference even to get a meeting with them. When he didn’t send a
proper “Save the Date” card for a  proposed summit  last month,
the entire Republican leadership turned him down without a
compelling reason. Those with hair had to wash it that evening.
The rest had headaches.  You don’t need WikiLeaks to know where Republicans stand.
Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky was happy
to announce that the top priority for Republicans during the
next two years is to defeat Obama in 2012.  Republicans were a bit more subtle as Obama prepared to
take office two years ago. The new president didn’t know until
much later that McConnell had called a play in the huddle to
hang tough on everything. Republicans wouldn’t be just the Party
of No, but the Party of Hell No. The lack of a single Republican
vote in the House for the desperately needed economic stimulus
in February 2009 was an early application of this strategy.  Still No  Republicans interpreted the midterm results to mean that
their just-say-no strategy is a winning one. While unlikely to
pursue a shut-down-the-government course, they’re not really
seeking common ground. Yesterday, just one day after the White
House meeting, all 42 Republican senators pledged in a letter to
block all legislation until the president and Congress figure
out a way to extend the tax cuts and fund the government into
next year.  Obama so prefers Kumbaya bipartisan process over getting
something done that he’s singlehandedly resuscitated an
opposition party that looked dead after the 2008 elections.
After Republicans rebuffed him on the stimulus, Obama  called
himself  “an eternal optimist” but added, “That doesn’t mean
I’m a sap.”  I wonder. Consider the still-unresolved fate of the  George W. Bush  tax cuts, set to expire Jan. 1. Obama is in such a
defensive crouch, he doesn’t recognize the winning hand he
holds. He wants to let the breaks expire for the wealthiest 2
percent of Americans and leave them intact for everybody else,
meaning households that take in less than $250,000 a year.  Conflicting Goals  Polls show the public with him on this. Republicans can’t
square blowing another $700 billion hole in the deficit to help
the richest taxpayers while saying that lowering the deficit is
the most important thing in the world to them.  They have no spending cuts to make up for it. There’s no
proof that extending the tax cut for the wealthy will do
anything to create one job or induce one bank to start lending
again. The wealthy have largely bounced back from the economic
crash.  Why wouldn’t Obama just battle to the bitter end on this
one, leaving Republicans to defend their willingness to stop
everything else if he doesn’t capitulate?  But no. He’s signaled he’ll agree to extend tax cuts for
the wealthy to preserve those for the middle class. He’ll do it
temporarily, as if not doing it permanently is a defeat for
Republicans.  One-Sided Trade  He’s not getting anything so far for the middle class in
exchange for what he’s prepared to give up. He unilaterally
announced a two-year freeze on federal pay, without bargaining
for an extension of unemployment benefits -- or, for that
matter, passage of well-reasoned  immigration legislation , or
ratification of the START Treaty, or repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t
Tell.  Obama acts as if he believes Republican rhetoric that the
election put them in the driver’s seat. Polls show a modest
difference in  approval ratings  for Republicans over Democrats.
The mandate they have is the one Obama gives them.  Republicans are wilier than Obama, who should see that
reaching out is for chumps. His recent busted lip, the result of
sharp elbows on the basketball court, seemed an apt status
report on his presidency.  What did he get for his trips to Capitol Hill, cocktail
receptions at his residence, inviting Republicans to watch the
Super Bowl at the White House? It’s a wonder his extended arm
didn’t break.  Rather than give Republicans another dinner date to turn
down, Obama should start playing hard to get.  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
George Bush and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Margaret Carlson  in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  