-- Cable & Wireless to Buy 51 Percent Stake in Bahamas Telecommunications
-- B y   M a r i a   E r m a k o v a
-- 2010-12-02T08:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/cable-wireless-to-buy-51-percent-stake-in-bahamas-telecommunications.html
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc 
agreed to buy 51 percent of Bahamas Telecommunications Company
for $210 million to prop up its ailing Caribbean business. The
stock rose as much as 3.6 percent in London trading.  The company signed a non-binding memorandum of
understanding with the government of the Bahamas and aims to
complete the transaction in the first quarter of 2011, Cable &
Wireless Communications said in an e-mailed statement today. The
company and the government will work together to complete due
diligence, finalize terms and obtain regulatory clearances.  Cable & Wireless Communications on Nov. 4 had its biggest
drop in London trading since splitting from its parent company
in March after it reported profit and sales that missed
estimates. First-half sales in the Caribbean dropped 6.1 percent
from a year earlier while earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization declined 13 percent.  Bahamas Telecommunications is the leading mobile-phone,
fixed-line and broadband  operator in the Bahamas, a member of
the Caribbean Community trading bloc, and will complement Cable
& Wireless Communications’ business in the region, according to
the statement.  Cable & Wireless Communications shares rose as much as 1.61
pence to 45.98 pence and were up 2.6 percent at 45.5 pence as of
8:06 a.m.  “Cash Generative’  Bahamas Telecommunications “represents a great opportunity
to expand our business in a region where we have competitive
strength and management capability,” Chief Executive Officer
 Tony Rice  said today. “This opportunity would fit with our
strategy to develop the business through market leading and cash
generative businesses.”  Rice said in November that he does not expect the Caribbean
economy to recover during the fiscal year.  The acquisition of Bahamas Telecommunications will be
funded from existing cash and debt facilities and is expected to
be earnings and cash flow accretive excluding restructuring
expenses, Cable & Wireless Communications said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Maria Ermakova  at 
 mermakova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 