-- Cameron `Bitterly Disappointed' by England Failure to Win World Cup Bid
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-12-02T18:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/cameron-bitterly-disappointed-by-england-failure-to-win-world-cup-bid.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said he’s “bitterly disappointed” England failed to gain the
right to host the 2018 soccer World Cup after he spent three
days in Zurich trying to win votes.  The opposition Labour Party said after  FIFA , the sport’s
governing body, awarded the competition to Russia that the
government should set up an independent review into why the bid
failed and the way football is run in England. FIFA said England
got just two votes from the 22 executive-committee members and
was eliminated in the first round.  “It’s bitterly disappointing,” Cameron said after
returning from Zurich, where he helped make the England bidding
team’s presentation today. “According to FIFA, we had the best
technical bid, we had the strongest commercial bid, the country
is passionate about football, but it turns out that isn’t
enough,” he said. “It’s hard to see what more you can do.”  Cameron was involved in meetings with delegates until after
midnight last night, his office said. The prime minister also
met with FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  at his official residence
in London on Oct. 13.  “I certainly don’t think they made a decision on the
merits of the bid,” London Mayor  Boris Johnson  told Sky News
television in Zurich. “Gutted is an understatement.”  Cameron’s spokesman,  Steve Field , declined to comment on
suggestions by reporters today that a report by BBC television’s
“Panorama” program that made allegations of corruption within
FIFA, broadcast three days ago, might have cost the England bid
votes. “I’m not going to get drawn into the reasons why,”
Field said.  ‘Sorry for Fans’  “It’s very sad,”  Prince William , who also took part in
the presentation, told Sky after the result was announced. “I’m
sorry for the fans back home that we lost out.”  Labour’s sports spokesman,  Ivan Lewis , said there should be
a “root-and-branch” inquiry into the management of soccer
after the failure of the bid and the England team’s poor showing
in this year’s World Cup in South Africa.  “Serious questions have to be answered as to how we can
learn lessons from these significant setbacks to build a better
future,” Lewis said in an e-mailed statement. “The coalition
and the football authorities should now set up an independent
root and branch inquiry into all aspects of how our national
game is run.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  