-- U.S. Military Chiefs to Offer Their Views on Gay Ban After Pentagon Study
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-12-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/mccain-says-u-s-military-gay-ban-repeal-would-be-premature-.html
U.S. military chiefs will testify
today whether they support the prohibition on openly gay service
members, days after a  Defense Department  study determined that
repealing the ban poses a “low risk” to the effectiveness of
the armed forces.  The Senate Armed Services Committee will hear from the
commanders of the Army, the Navy, the Air Force and the Marine
Corps, all of whom had told Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, the
top Republican on the panel, in May that they opposed ending the
policy until the Pentagon  study  was completed. Marine Corps
General  James Cartwright , the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, will also speak at the hearing.  The House of Representatives approved the repeal of the
“don’t ask, don’t tell” law earlier this year. Democrats will
need at least two Republicans to reach the 60 votes needed to
overcome a filibuster threat and bring the measure to the floor.  McCain has led the opposition to changing the 1993 law
prohibiting military service by openly gay men and women. He and
most other Republicans on the committee weren’t swayed by the
arguments in favor of repeal put forward yesterday by Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, Admiral  Michael Mullen , in the first day of hearings.  “I am concerned about the impact of a rush to repeal when
even this survey has found that such a significant number of our
service members feel that it would negatively impact military
effectiveness,” McCain, a former Navy pilot, said yesterday.  Lame-Duck Business  The legislation risks getting caught in the crush of
business in the lame-duck session, which includes debates over
tax cuts, unemployment benefits and a nuclear-arms treaty with
Russia. When the next session of Congress convenes in January
with new members elected last month, Democrats will lose control
of the House and have a smaller majority in the Senate.  Gates and Mullen testified that, overall, the study
indicates that the risk of change is low and that “a solid
majority” of service members said repeal wouldn’t have a
negative impact. Gates said concerns of combat troops do not
present an “insurmountable barrier” to a successful repeal.  McCain highlighted survey results showing that members of
combat units and Marines were more likely than other service
members to say that letting gays serve openly would hurt
military effectiveness. Other Republicans were also resistant.  “I’m inclined to the personal view that ‘don’t ask, don’t
tell’ has been pretty effective, and I’m dubious about the
change,” Alabama Republican Senator  Jeff Sessions  said.  Two Possible Republicans  Two Republicans -- the number needed to reach the votes
required for floor action -- showed some signs of backing a
lifting of the ban.  Maine Republican Senator  Susan Collins , who voted for the
repeal measure in committee earlier this year, cited a soldier’s
comments in the study that “no one cared” that a member of his
unit was gay. “He’s big, he’s mean and he kills lots of bad
guys,” Collins quoted the soldier as saying.  In a written statement, Collins said she would vote to
bring the measure to the Senate floor if the Democratic
leadership “allows sufficient debate and amendments.”  Massachusetts Republican  Scott Brown , also a committee
member, plans to issue a statement today, after the second day
of hearings, on whether he will back repeal, spokeswoman Gail
Gitcho said.  “I’ve been to many funerals, unfortunately, in my home
state for those soldiers, and one thing I never asked was ‘Are
they gay or straight?’” Brown said during the hearing
yesterday.  ‘Some Urgency’  Gates told the committee that congressional action to end
the ban is a “matter of some urgency.” He cited concern that a
federal court may order an immediate end to the policy, rather
than leaving the Pentagon time to implement needed policies and
training. That, Gates said, is the “most dangerous and damaging
scenario I can imagine.”  A federal trial judge in September declared the ban
unconstitutional. The Supreme Court last month allowed the law
to remain in effect during appeals.  “Our basic assessment is that our military can make this
change, provided we do so in an orderly and reasonable manner,”
 Jeh Johnson , the Defense Department general counsel who was one
of the study’s leaders, told the committee yesterday. “Our plea
to the Congress is to not leave the fate of this law to the
courts.”  Army General  Carter Ham , the other study leader, said he
was “very concerned” that the courts may overturn the ban.  “It is time to move from debate and discussion to decision
and implementation,” Ham, who is the top U.S. Army commander in
Europe and has been nominated to become the next head of the
military’s Africa Command, told the committee in response to a
question from McCain. “So yes, sir, I think it is time to
change.”  Survey Findings  A survey that underpinned the study found that while most
military personnel said repealing the ban would have either a
positive effect, little effect or no impact at all, 40 percent
to 60 percent of respondents from the Marine Corps and largely
all-male combat units said it would have negative repercussions.  Mullen, the president’s chief military adviser, said the
shift probably would occur “with less turbulence” than
opponents predict. In February, he told the committee that he
can’t support a ban that requires troops to hide who they are.  “In fact, it may be the combat arms community that proves
the most effective at managing this change, disciplined as they
are,” Mullen said yesterday.  ‘Dangerous Path’  McCain and Mississippi Republican Senator  Roger Wicker 
questioned the Pentagon leaders about why the survey didn’t
directly ask service members whether they supported repeal of
the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy. Gates told Wicker that
that polling soldiers on policy matters “is a very dangerous
path.”  “Are you going to ask them if they want 15-month tours?”
Gates said. “Are you going to ask them if they want to be part
of the surge in Iraq? That’s not the way our civilian-led
military has ever worked.”  Committee Chairman  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, said
the Pentagon study, which was released Nov. 30, “demonstrates
that for the vast majority of our troops, this change would be
no big deal.”  Levin pointed to study findings that most service members
who worked with colleagues they believed to be gay said they
didn’t see damage to their unit’s effectiveness.  “Real-world experience is a powerful antidote to the
stereotypes that are a major source of the discomfort some feel
about ending ‘don’t ask, don’t tell,’” Levin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 