-- Brazil's Cetip Soars After Buying GRV for $1.2 Billion in Cash-Stock Deal
-- B y   H e l d e r   M a r i n h o
-- 2010-12-02T23:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/cetip-agrees-to-purchase-grv-solutions-pay-2-billion-reais.html
Cetip SA - Balcao Organizado de
Ativos e Derivativos  rose the most in six months after agreeing
to buy GRV Solutions SA, a provider of credit-risk management
services, for 2 billion reais ($1.2 billion), boosting the
product offerings of Brazil’s biggest clearinghouse.  Cetip gained 4.9 percent, the most since May 21, to 21.50
reais at the close of trading in Sao Paulo at 3 p.m. New York
time. Earlier, the shares rose as much as 12 percent, the most
since the company went public in October 2009.  Cetip said yesterday in a regulatory filing that it will
pay 1.555 billion reais in cash and 455 million reais in stock
for 100 percent of GRV. The clearinghouse will in part finance
the purchase by selling 900 million reais of seven-year bonds in
the local market. Upon completion of the transaction, GRV
shareholders will own about 9.4 percent of Cetip, according to
the statement.  “The deal optimizes the capital structure of Cetip,
doubles the size of earnings at Cetip and is done at a
reasonable multiple,”  Frederic de Mariz , an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Sao Paulo, who reaffirmed his “overweight”
rating on Cetip, wrote in a report. “We have a very positive
view on this transaction.”  Latin America’s largest economy has recorded 387 mergers
and acquisitions worth a total of $72.9 billion over the past 12
months, with an average disclosed deal size of $312.7 million.  ‘Significant Expansion’  “GRV’s activities complement the products and services
currently offered by Cetip and reach almost the same client
base,” the company said in the filing. The acquisition will
mean “a significant expansion” of services offered, Cetip
said.  GRV canceled in June a plan to sell shares in Brazil. Last
month, Cetip signed a letter of intent with  Deutsche Boerse AG ’s
Clearstream Banking SA unit to establish an electronic platform
to initially trade fixed-income securities.  Itau  BBA, a unit of  Itau Unibanco Holding SA , and Bradesco
BBI, a unit of  Banco Bradesco SA , advised Cetip in the
acquisition. Credit Suisse AG was the adviser for GRV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helder Marinho  in Sao Paulo at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  