-- Chevron Crude Oil Pipeline Shut After Leak Is Detected in Salt Lake City
-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 2010-12-02T22:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/chevron-crude-pipeline-shut-after-leak-detected-in-salt-lake.html
Chevron Corp.  shut down a crude oil
pipeline after a leak was detected near a creek in Salt Lake
City, according to Lisa Harrison Smith, a spokeswoman for the
mayor’s office.  Chevron workers reported the spill at 11:23 p.m. local time
yesterday, said Captain Michael Harp of the Salt Lake City Fire
Department. Firefighters were able to contain the fuel before it
reached Red Butte Creek, he said.  “This pipeline happens to cross a lot of our watershed
areas, so it literally could affect, if there is a spill, a
million people’s drinking-water supply,” Mayor  Ralph Becker 
said in a telephone interview today.  The San Ramon, California-based company does not anticipate
any impact on Salt Lake City refineries,  Justin Higgs , a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “At this time, we are uncertain when the pipeline will be
back in service,” Higgs said.  It was the second leak in six months on the 10-inch line,
Harrison Smith said. The pipe was shut from June 12 to June 21
and the mayor’s office reported an estimated 800 barrels of
crude leaked.  Sean Comey, another company spokesman, said at the time
that an electrical arc may have caused the June spill.  Tesoro Corp.’s  58,000-barrel-a-day refinery in Salt Lake
City receives a small volume of crude from the common carrier
Chevron pipeline,  Mike Marcy , a Tesoro spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  Tesoro doesn’t expect any difficulty supplying customers
and meeting contractual obligations while the line is out of
service, Marcy said.  The cause of the leak is under investigation while the
cleanup continues, Harp said.  “Over the last few months we’ve been in the process of
evaluating this line and others in the area,” Becker said.
“This obviously creates a whole new sense of urgency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leela Landress  in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  