-- China Bullet Trains Double Rail Stocks as Boom Brings Most Tracks in World
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-03T11:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/china-bullet-trains-double-rail-stocks-as-boom-brings-most-tracks-in-world.html
Zhu Yi used to nap on the five-hour
train ride home to  Wuhan  from Zhuzhou in central China. Now that
a fast rail line has cut the trip to an hour and 40 minutes, he
can spend more time selling information-management systems.  Before, “it took three days to get a project done,” said
Zhu, 31, a sales manager for  Beijing Lanxum New Technology Co. 
in Wuhan. “Now it’s so fast I can work out a solution for the
client and be back home on the same day.”  The view from Zhu’s reclining seat shows how China’s push to
build a 16,000-kilometer high-speed passenger network by 2020 is
carrying China’s industrial boom inland. All along the trackside
are earth movers and excavators clearing land and beginning
construction. They merge into a blur as the express accelerates
to 350 kilometers (218 miles) an hour.  The country’s planned 2 trillion yuan ($300 billion) in
spending will give it almost as much track by 2012 as the entire
rest of the world, even before the  network  is completed.  The new trains will transform China’s economy in the way
bullet trains did in Japan in the 1960s and 1970s, according to
Beijing-based China International Capital Corp., the top-ranked
brokerage for China research in Asiamoney magazine’s annual
survey.  “China’s high-speed rail program is altering the landscape
of consumer and property markets,” said  Jing Ulrich , JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s China equities and commodities head in Hong Kong.  Rail Shares  China’s bullet-train spending has buoyed rail stocks since
a 4-trillion-yuan stimulus was announced in November 2008.
Shares of Dalian-based China Railway Tielong Container Logistics
Co., which provides railroad, truck and water transportation
services, have risen 2.5 times since then.  China Railway Erju
Co.  in Chengdu, which designs and builds railways, has more than
doubled.  Companies providing rolling stock and equipment to train
operators have some of the best growth prospects in the country,
said  Anderson Chow , a Hong Kong-based analyst with Macquarie
Capital Securities. Overall investment in China’s railway
industry will total 3.8 trillion yuan from 2011 to 2015, about
50 percent more than in the last five years, he estimates.  Earnings growth at CSR Corp., which makes locomotives and
wagons, will surge an annual average 38 percent over the next
three years, said Chow. At  Zhuzhou CSR Times Electric Co . in
Zhuzhou, which makes electrical systems for railways, earnings
will rise an average of about 35 percent annually over the same
period, he said.  Earnings Certainty?  “If you look around the China market there are very few
companies that give you that sort of certainty for earnings
growth,” Chow said.  The nation’s $90 billion in spending on the network last
year far exceeds the $8 billion that President  Barack Obama 
allocated in stimulus for U.S. fast trains earlier this year.  The difference “is a confirmation of China’s rise and an
indication of U.S. demise,” said  Nicholas Lardy , a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington. “We in the U.S. are doing little to nothing and
will pay a price in slower growth now and in the future.”  Japan’s bullet trains triggered “explosive growth” in
tourism-related retail sales along their routes in the decade
after Shinkansen services began in 1964, CICC said. Less-
developed cities such as Hiroshima, Nagoya and Fukuoka “started
to play catch-up in industrial production growth.” Morgan
Stanley is selling its 34.3 percent stake in CICC, four people
with direct knowledge of the deal said.  Fewer Bottlenecks  In China, more businesses will move inland to capitalize on
labor as much as 50 percent cheaper than in the more affluent
eastern areas of the country, and on lower land and rental
costs. Increased rail capacity also will reduce freight
bottlenecks, the bank said.  Beijing Lanxum’s Zhu said the bullet trains helped him
increase sales about 15 percent this year in Zhuzhou, Hunan’s
second-biggest city, because he can contact more clients.  Changsha , population 6 million and the capital of Hunan
province, shows how the fast trains are altering the landscape
in central China. He Chuan Road features an array of dusty shops
selling tires, noodles and groceries, typical of many provincial
cities. Just around the corner towers the 200,000-square meter
Changsha South Railway Station, its glass curtain walls capped
by a 38-meter-high waved roof.  The coming of the trains prompted CITIC Capital’s  Stanley Ching  to bet 1.5 billion yuan on CITIC’s purchase of the ID Mall
shopping complex in the city center, about 30 minutes from the
station. He plans to add a chain of branded retail malls over
the next three to five years, mostly in second- and third-tier
cities along the high-speed rail routes.  ‘Big Push’  “Changsha’s been a very promising city but it needed a big
push to turn it into a regional hub,” said Ching, Hong Kong-
based head of real estate at CITIC Capital, which manages more
than $3 billion in private equity, in a telephone interview.
“High-speed rail is that big push.”  China’s industrial transformation may be greater than
Japan’s because its rail network will be bigger and its trains
faster, according to JP Morgan’s Ulrich. A Chinese high-speed
train today reached 486.1 kilometers per hour in what state-run
Xinhua News said was a world record for an unmodified commercial
locomotive. A specially equipped French TGV set a world record
of 574.8 kilometers per hour in April 2007.  “Places west of Shanghai can become part of China’s giant
east coast export zone, and that’s already starting to happen,”
said  Arthur Kroeber , managing director of Beijing-based
Dragonomics, an economic advisory firm whose clients include
Fortune 500 companies and hedge funds.  All Capitals  China has more than 7,000 kilometers of high-speed track so
far. By 2012, Beijing plans to have 42 lines in operation,
covering 13,000 kilometers. Within a decade all provincial
capitals and cities with more than 500,000 citizens will have
high-speed links, the Ministry of Railways says. Already, the
Chinese rail system is larger than any other country’s,
according to the Paris-based  International Union of Railways .  Changsha’s fast rail link enables CITIC Capital to hire
senior staff from coastal cities such as  Shenzhen  to manage the
retail malls, said Ching.  When the Guangzhou-Shenzhen line opens next year, travel
time to Changsha will shrink to about 2.5 hours from more than 9
hours. Another line, scheduled for completion in 2014, will cut
travel time between Guangzhou and Yunfu, a city of 2.6 million
in Guangdong province, to 40 minutes from more than 2 hours.  Tableware Sales  Companies based in  Yunfu , such as stainless-steel tableware
maker Linkfair Group and agricultural company Wen’s Group, will
benefit, said John Scales, Beijing-based transport sector
coordinator at the World Bank. The link will help them recruit
designers and research staff, according to a World Bank case
study on the city to be published next year, said Scales.  China’s development of locomotives has won its companies
overseas orders in Argentina, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, and
the nation is competing to build a high-speed railway in
California costing more than $40 billion.  Beijing-based  CSR Corp. , China’s largest maker of rail
vehicles, plans to partner with Fairfield, Connecticut-based
 General Electric Co.  on bids for U.S. high-speed train
contracts, CSR Chairman  Zhao Xiaogang  told reporters in Hong
Kong today. The companies may compete for lines in California,
Florida and elsewhere on the east coast, Zhao said.  In Brazil, Beijing-based  China Railway Construction Corp. 
and China CNR are leading a group bidding for a line that may
cost as much as 33.1 billion reais ($19.2 billion).  Falling Shares  The overseas expansion has brought new risks to the
sector’s stocks. Shares of China Railway Construction, builder
of more than half the nation’s railroads, fell the most in
almost two years Oct. 26 after it predicted a 4.15-billion yuan
loss from a Mecca, Saudi Arabia rail project.  Credit Suisse Group AG that day lowered its stock rating on
the company to “underperform” from “outperform.” China
Railway Construction reported a 1.36 billion yuan loss for the
three months ended September on Oct. 28, compared with a 1.45-
billion yuan profit a year earlier.  Critics in China, including professors at Peking University
and  Beijing Jiaotong University , say the network’s high cost
makes it financially unviable in a country where the average
urban worker made 32,244 yuan last year, less than one-eighth of
the $39,054 average  wage  in the U.S., according to data from the
U.S. and  Chinese  governments.  Peking University finance professor  Michael Pettis  called
the network a “trophy.”  Zhao Jian , a professor of economics at
Beijing Jiaotong University, said in a commentary in the China
Daily newspaper in April that the “blind pursuit” of high-
speed rail is “highly likely to develop into a debt crisis.”  U.S. Rail Bonds  Railroads played a role in the collapse of the U.S.
corporate bond market in the late 1800s. The market had grown in
prominence on Wall Street as railroad barons looked to raise
cash to expand into the American West. Then came a flood of
defaults, which prompted lenders to start demanding certain
protections, known as covenants, written into bond contracts.  The 1870s proved to be “a disastrous decade” as default
rates reached 35 percent, according to a Stanford University
research  paper .  Russell Hoss , manager of the Newport Beach, California-
based EPH China Fund, said investors in China may do better
buying companies with businesses along the new lines.  “The best way to play high-speed rail is via branded
consumer companies expanding in inland cities that are being
linked to the east coast by the new tracks,” he said, declining
to name companies.  Sixfold Increase  The $90 million fund’s only rail-linked investment is
Nanjing-based  China High Speed Transmission Equipment Group Co. ,
which raised first-half revenue from its rail power business
more than sixfold to 15 billion yuan.  Kroeber said construction of new track for the network will
free up space on existing lines for freight, generating enough
revenue over 15 years to pay for the new lines. China’s rail
network is “bursting at the seams,” he said.  Freight has doubled between Guangzhou and Wuhan since the
route opened in December, said He Huawu, the railway ministry’s
chief engineer, in an interview. The separation of passenger and
cargo lines will release seven times the capacity for container
transportation, according to Shanghai-based Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co.  Singapore-based DBS Asset Management, which in April set up
the China Rail Network Opportunities Fund, sees a long-term
expansion.  Comfort Level  “Companies in this space are going to see a high level of
growth over a sustained period,” said Singapore-based fund
manager  Chan Kum Kong , who helps DBS Asset Management oversee
S$25.6 billion ($19.3 billion). “In an environment where there
is a lot of uncertainty, we thought this provided a high level
of comfort.”  The fund includes shares in such companies as Fuzhou-based
department store Fujian Dongbai (Group) Co., Ltd., which Chan
expects to record earnings growth of more than 40 percent over
the next two to three years, in part driven by greater mobility
of labor spurred by high-speed rail links, he said.  New York-based Echo Lake Capital owns stock in concrete
maker  China Advanced Construction Materials Group Inc.  because
it’s poised to “benefit significantly from China’s high-speed
rail construction and infrastructure build-out,” said fund
manager  Ephraim Fields  in e-mailed answers to questions.  The Nasdaq-listed  company , which supplies more than 50
percent of its concrete to high-speed rail, is also beginning to
benefit from development in cities joined by the new lines, said
Beijing-based Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Han Xianfu  in
an interview. It expects to pour 1.5 million cubic meters of
concrete for a township near Wuhan spurred by the Guangzhou-
Wuhan-Zhengzhou line, said Han.  “Now, business is driven mainly by the supply of concrete
for the high-speed rail network,” said Han. “In 10 years, the
story will be about how we capitalized on urbanization projects
created by that network.”  -- Kevin Hamlin . With assistance from  Lee Miller  and
and Feifei Shen in Beijing,  Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt and
 Robert Burgess  in New York. Editors:  Adam Majendie ,  Anne Swardson   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  