-- China Should Channel Savers to Stocks, Away From Banks, PBOC Adviser Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-02T04:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/china-central-bank-adviser-li-daokui-urges-savings-shift-to-stock-market.html
China should channel its high level
of savings from banks to the  stock market  in order to avoid
risks to the financial system and further develop the capital
markets, according to central bank adviser  Li Daokui.   “China’s bank savings remain at a very high level,” Li
said in an interview with the overseas edition of People’s Daily.
“There could be potential risks for the banks and the nation’s
whole financial system if there happens to be a large number of
withdrawals suddenly.”  When asked where that capital should be transferred to, he
said, “China should develop capital markets and expand the
stock market. Through the stock market’s expansion, we can
gradually channel money out.” He also said that China should
allow more funds to be invested overseas.  The nation’s household deposits jumped the most in seven
months in September, even after accelerating inflation reduced
real returns to negative for savers. Stock investors opened
fewer accounts to trade equities last week as the benchmark
index fell 5.3 percent in November on concern government efforts
to tame inflation will hurt earnings.  Consumer prices jumped 4.4 percent in October, the fastest
in two years, and above the government’s full-year target of 3
percent. The central bank on Oct. 19 raised interest rates for
the first time since 2007, with the benchmark one-year lending
rate increasing by a quarter of a percentage point to 5.56
percent and the deposit rate by the same amount to 2.5 percent.  Negative Returns  “Investors are seeking to ensure gains or at least
maintain the value of their money,” said Shen Nan, a strategist
at Changjiang Securities Co. in Shanghai. “The negative deposit
rate due to inflation and restricted property investment makes
the stock market a significant channel for investors seeking
capital returns.”  The nation’s savings ratio stood at 54 percent of gross
domestic product in 2008, the highest among major economies in
the world, according to data compiled by the World Bank. Only
Libya, Kuwait and Azerbaijan rank higher.  Household deposits increased 1.04 trillion yuan ($156
billion) in September, the biggest rise in seven months, to 29.9
trillion yuan. China’s current household savings exceeded the
combined gross domestic product of Brazil, India and Russia,
according to Bloomberg data.  Saving money has been a cultural touchstone for the Chinese
since the government dismantled the so-called iron rice bowl of
lifelong job security following economic reforms in the 1990s.  China Valuations  Even with last month’s decline, the  Shanghai Composite 
Index has rebounded 21 percent since reaching this year’s low on
July 5 on expectations central banks around the world will
inject more cash into their economies to boost growth.  The measure  trades  at 18.5 times reported earnings and
offers a dividend yield of 1.45, compared with a price-earnings
ratio of 15.1 and dividend yield of 1.9 for the Standard and
Poor’s 500 Index.  Investors opened 388,107 accounts during the week ended Nov.
26, a drop from 436,396 accounts the previous week. Individual
investors comprise 99 percent of the nation’s 150 million
trading accounts.  Soaring Chinese real estate prices have prompted analysts
including former Morgan Stanley economist  Andy Xie  to call the
nation’s asset markets a bubble that will burst once the
government curbs credit. China is “on a treadmill to hell,” with
growth driven by the “heroin of property development,” hedge
fund manager  James Chanos  said in April.  As a central bank adviser, Li’s concern is with financial
stability rather than returns for investors. He said in October
that China could agree to a U.S. proposal for setting current-
account targets, a view that was contradicted days later by the
government. Li said last month that China can consider selling
U.S. Treasuries as compensation for losses caused by the Federal
Reserve’s decision to purchase $600 billion of bonds to pump
money into the American economy.  -- Irene Shen . With assistance from  Luo Jun , Chua Kong Ho and
 Huang Zhe . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Greg Turk   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Irene Shen in
Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or  ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  