-- China's Refusal to Condemn North Korea at UN Narrows U.S., Allied Options
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-12-02T10:04:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/china-s-refusal-to-condemn-north-korea-narrows-un-options-for-u-s-allies.html
China’s refusal to condemn North
Korea for its expanding nuclear program and its attack on a
South Korean island limits the retaliatory options for the U.S.,
Japan and South Korea.  “Not much can be done,” said  Sue Mi Terry , deputy
national intelligence officer for East Asia at the National
Intelligence Council from 2007 to 2009.  “China is the key, but when it comes down to any kind of
action, they are not willing to play ball,” Terry said in an
interview. “So I believe the situation is going to get worse.”  China has refused to back a bid by the U.S. and Japan in
the United Nations Security Council to condemn North Korea’s
latest provocations, Japan’s Ambassador  Tsuneo Nishida  said in
an interview.  “The Chinese have always been resistant” to directly
accusing North Korea of wrongdoing, Nishida said. “This is
always the argument.”  With the Security Council deadlocked, the U.S. plans to
host high-level talks next week with South Korea and Japan.  President  Barack Obama ’s top military adviser called on
China to use its influence to persuade North Korea to end its
“deeply destabilizing behavior.”  “China shares a relationship with the North that is not
matched anywhere else in the world,” Admiral  Michael Mullen ,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said yesterday at the
Center for American Progress in Washington.  ‘Significant Leverage’  “Given the aid and support China has provided to North
Korea over the years, there’s significant leverage they could
apply to avoiding escalation and improving this troubling
situation,” Mullen said.  China’s ties with North Korea “have witnessed significant
progress this year,”  Wu Bangguo , a member of the standing
committee of China’s Politburo, said yesterday, according to a
statement on the website of the Communist Party. Wu pledged to
strengthen those links in his third meeting this year with  Choe Tae Bok , a key aide to North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il .  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will meet in Washington
on Dec. 6 with South Korean Foreign Minister  Kim Sung Hwan  and
Japanese Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara . The meeting
demonstrates their “commitment to security on the Korean
peninsula and stability in the region,” the State Department
said in a statement.  Enlisting China’s Backing  The U.S., Japan and South Korea likely will discuss how to
enlist China’s backing and what further sanctions they can
impose on North Korea, said  Thomas Lee , professor of
international law at Fordham University in New York and a former
U.S. naval intelligence officer in South Korea.  “They might have to give China something,” Lee said,
noting that the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony for Chinese dissident
 Liu Xiaobo , set for Dec. 10, offers an opportunity to ease
pressure in the government in Beijing.  “They could put a freeze on some suspect bank accounts in
Thailand and Malaysia,” Lee said, limiting North Korea’s access
to hard currency. He said other options include a South Korea
move to shut down the Kaesong economic complex jointly run by
both Koreas, cancellation of humanitarian aid shipments to North
Korea, and “live fire” air and sea maneuvers at the edge of
the 12-mile limit of North Korea’s territorial waters.  U.S.-Japan Drills  China today criticized planned week-long military exercises
by more than 40,000 Japanese and American troops that will begin
tomorrow as an obstacle to easing tensions on the Korean
peninsula, and reiterated its call for increased diplomatic
efforts.  “Brandishing of force cannot solve the issue,” Chinese
Foreign Ministry spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  said at a regular briefing
in Beijing. “Some are playing with knives and guns while China
is criticized for calling for dialogue, is that fair?”  Fresh from maneuvers in the Yellow Sea with South Korea’s
navy, the aircraft carrier USS George Washington will join a
force of about 400 aircraft and 60 warships. Drills will include
responding to ballistic missile attacks on unspecified Pacific
islands, the Joint Staff of the Japan Self-Defense Forces said
in a statement.  At the United Nations, where Ambassador Nishida of Japan
said he didn’t “dare to say” that talks on a Security Council
response were dead, British and Russian envoys said an accord
wasn’t likely.  “It doesn’t look like it,” Russian Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin  said, noting “some problems” in private bilateral
talks that followed North Korea’s announcement of a new plant to
enrich uranium and the Nov. 23 artillery attack on the South
Korean island.  No ‘Weak Response’  “We are not prepared to have a weak response by the
council,” U.K. Ambassador  Mark Lyall Grant  said. “There are
serious violations on the nuclear side, and the shelling should
be condemned if we are to make any statement at all.  “It is disappointing because the Security Council ought to
be in a position to respond to these sorts of incidents that are
clearly a threat to international peace and security,” he said.
“But the  Security Council  operates by unanimity when it comes
to these kinds of statements, and there wasn’t any.”  Earlier this year, it took the Security Council almost four
months to agree on a statement condemning the March 26 sinking
of the South Korea warship Cheonan, and it didn’t explicitly
condemn North Korea. The statement condemned the attack without
accusing North Korea and took “note” of North Korea’s denial
of complicity.  A multinational investigation reported in June that a North
Korean-made torpedo caused the sinking in which 46 sailors died.  ‘Stakes Are Going Up’  “They sank a ship, killed 46 sailors, they killed four
Korean citizens the other day” and showed foreign experts a
uranium enrichment facility, Mullen said. “The ante is going up,
and I think the stakes are going up, and I think the stakes in
terms of stability in the region are going up.”  Yang Tao, political director of China’s mission to the UN,
said that his government was still considering proposed language
of a Security Council statement on the latest incidents and that
consultations haven’t ended.  China favors handling tensions on the Korean peninsula in
the format of the six-party talks among China, Japan, South
Korea, North Korea, Russia and the U.S. China has called for an
emergency meeting of that group.  The U.S., Japan and South Korea haven’t agreed to China’s
proposal, saying they want to see more concrete action by North
Korea to dismantle its nuclear program before restarting the
talks. Churkin said Russia was open to the six-party proposal,
calling it a “positive” initiative by China.  “Beijing’s call for consultations will not substitute for
action,” Mullen said yesterday. “I do not believe we should
continue to reward North Korea’s provocative and deeply
destabilizing behavior with bargaining or new incentives.”  Terry, who is now a national intelligence fellow at the
Council on Foreign Relations in New York, said it was likely
that the U.S. would return to the talks after a face-saving
interval and make a new bid at the UN to tighten existing
sanctions on North Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  