-- Australian Travel Executive Matthew Ng Charged in China With Embezzlement
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-02T10:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/china-charges-australian-with-embezzlement-may-strain-ties-after-hu-case.html
China charged businessman Matthew Ng
with embezzlement on Nov. 30, the Department of Foreign Affairs
and Trade in Australia said in an e-mailed statement today.  Ng was detained by police in the southern Chinese city of
Guangzhou on Nov. 16 and  consular officials are assisting the
44-year-old and his family, the Australian department said
today. Ng was being held on the suspicion of ’’misappropriation
of company assets,’’ the company had  said  on Nov. 22.  “The Australian Consulate-General in Guangzhou has raised
the Australian government’s strong interest in the case at
senior levels of the Guangdong government,” it said. The
Australian government is monitoring the case “closely to ensure
due legal process is followed.”  Ng is a chief executive of Et-China.com International
Holdings, the company said. Phone calls to Et-China and the
company’s public relations firm weren’t answered.  His case came about eight months after  Stern Hu , the
Australian executive who led Rio Tinto Group’s China iron ore
unit, was sentenced in March by a court in Shanghai to 10 years
jail after being found guilty of taking bribes from steel mills
and infringing commercial secrets.  The case frayed ties between the two nations, coming after
Rio last year rejected a $19.5 billion investment from China and
iron ore price talks with Chinese mills stalled.  Today’s statement stressed that the charges Ng faces
“relate to embezzlement and are very different to the ones
faced by Mr. Hu, which related to bribery and theft of
commercial secrets.”  Australian consular officers in Guangzhou will visit him
again on Dec. 7 and continue to ’’monitor his welfare,’’ the
statement said.  -- Robert Fenner ,  Stephanie Wong , Michael Wei,  Yidi Zhao , Greg
Turk. Editors:  Paul Tighe ,  Mark Williams   To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai at 
   Swong139@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  