-- China, India, Brazil Say Debate on Kyoto Extension Threatens Climate Talks
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2010-12-02T18:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/china-brazil-say-debate-on-extending-kyoto-accord-threatens-climate-talks.html
China, India and Brazil led
developing nations in saying Japan’s refusal to help extend the
Kyoto Protocol to curb greenhouse gas emissions may halt work on
a global accord to combat global warming.  A total of 84 countries, including Japan, signed the 1997
Kyoto Protocol, agreeing to limit fossil fuel emissions. Those
limits expire in December 2012, and with no other agreement to
replace Kyoto, delegates at the United Nation climate talks in
Cancun, Mexico, say extending the pact is crucial.  “The Kyoto Protocol is the very basis of the framework to
address climate change through international cooperation,”
China’s envoy,  Su Wei  told reporters in Cancun. “If the pillar
is collapsed, you can guess the consequences.”  Failure to reach an agreement on extending Kyoto’s mandate
threatens to undermine the UN-brokered Clean Development
Mechanism, the world’s second-biggest market for emissions
credits, worth $2.7 billion last year.  “Kyoto has to continue, otherwise the whole negotiation
would fall apart,” Luiz Alberto Figueiredo Machado, Brazil’s
lead negotiator in Cancun said in an interview last night.  Japanese negotiator  Kunihiko Shimada  said in an interview
on Nov. 30 that the protocol is “outdated” because it only
covers 27 percent of global emissions and that his country won’t
accept a second commitment period once the current targets
expire.  ‘Troubling’  “It’s certainly troubling,” Lou Leonard, managing
director of the climate change program at WWF in Washington,
said in an interview. “It’s not the end of the story. There is
growing support among Kyoto Protocol countries for moving
forward in some form. We will have to wait and see how that
goes.”  Japan’s position is important because the talks require a
consensus and Japan is the world’s fourth-biggest polluter
behind China, the U.S. and Russia. The issue raises the prospect
this year’s discussions will fail to reach any agreement on
combating climate change, ending in discord like the meeting in
Copenhagen in 2009.  UN credits for 2012 traded at 4.19 euros ($5.49) less than
those in the European Union’s cap-and-trade program yesterday.
That compares with a 2.39 euro discount at the start of the
year. UN credits for 2010 gained 0.7 percent yesterday to 11.84
euros a metric ton. EU permits rose 0.5 percent to 14.82 euros.  Progress Stalled  The dispute also may hamper progress in other areas of the
discussions, which aim to protect forests, channel up to $100
billion to poor nations and set up a system to verify the
emissions reductions countries say they’re making.  “We cannot see how we can continue with the carbon markets
without the Kyoto Protocol,” Gambian envoy  Pa Ousman Jarju  said
in an interview. “If we don’t have positive signals for the
continuation of the Kyoto Protocol in a second commitment
period, we are not going to give in on any other issues.”  U.S. envoy  Jonathan Pershing  sidestepped the controversy in
a briefing with reporters yesterday, noting the U.S. didn’t
ratify Kyoto and isn’t party to the discussions about what to do
with the accord.  “The U.S. is not and has not been a party to the Kyoto
Protocol,” Pershing said. “We’re not taking part. I don’t have
any real comment. Japan has been quite clear. It’s any country’s
right about how to move forward.”  The gap makes it difficult to reach the “ultimate goal”
of protecting the planet from climate change, he said at a
briefing last night.  Two Tracks  The talks have two tracks. One would set new greenhouse gas
cuts for nations bound by Kyoto. The other would make targets
for the U.S., the only developed nation not to ratify Kyoto, and
spell out actions to be taken by developing nations including
China.  Japan favors a single legally-binding instrument that
includes all major emitters. It doesn’t want to extend the
exemption from making emission cuts granted to developing
nations including China under Kyoto.  “If the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol is
not there, then I’m afraid the prospects for any positive
outcome at Cancun are very remote,” Environment Minister Jairam
Ramesh said today in an interview at his office in New Delhi.  While the outcome of discussions on the Kyoto track would
be legally binding, delegates have yet to decide whether the
results of the discussion about U.S. and developing country
actions also will be binding. That issue caused a day-long
suspension of talks at the Copenhagen climate summit last
December and wasn’t resolved.  Not Concluded  “Here we are at another Conference of the Parties, and we
still haven’t concluded that we should have a legally-binding
agreement,” Tuvaluan envoy Ian Fry, who triggered the
suspension of talks in the Danish capital last year, told
delegates.  Mexican Foreign Minister  Patricia Espinosa , president of
this year’s conference, yesterday decided to set up a forum that
will examine the legal form of the outcome, fending off
opposition to such discussions from India, China and Saudi
Arabia. A final decision won’t be made in Cancun, she said.  Figueiredo of Brazil said that in Cancun, as in last year’s
meeting in Copenhagen, some countries are playing a “certain
game of ‘I don’t do it until you do it,’ followed very, very,
very swiftly by a certain blame game.”  Saudi Arabian lead negotiator  Mohammad al-Sabban  said
there’s no point in discussing the legal form of the second
track of discussions while nations were flouting their
obligations under the existing Kyoto Protocol.  “The most important question now is how we maintain the
status of the Kyoto Protocol before we discuss a legally binding
new agreement,” al-Sabban said. “We should have the second
commitment period, otherwise there is no need or meaning to
adopt decisions that we know can be flouted by countries
whenever they feel like it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Morales  in Cancun, Mexico, at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ; or
 Kim Chipman  in Cancun, Mexico, at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  