-- China Is `Scared' of U.S. Monetary Policy, Rogoff, Rickards Say
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2010-12-02T22:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/china-is-scared-u-s-policy-is-debasing-currency-rogoff-rickards-say.html
Policy makers in China, which holds
$883.5 billion in U.S. Treasuries, are concerned the nation with
the world’s biggest economy is debasing its currency, according
to  Kenneth S. Rogoff  and  James Rickards .  The world is in the early stages of a currency war, said
Rickards, chief financial and administrative officer of Oro
Capital Advisors LLC. Rickards, Rogoff, a professor of economics
and public policy at Harvard University, and  Laurence H. Meyer ,
co-founder of Macroeconomic Advisers LLC, spoke today at the
Bloomberg Hedge Funds 2010 conference in New York.  The Federal Reserve’s “good old-fashioned monetary
policy” does not intend to devalue the dollar, said Meyer, a
former member of the Fed’s Board of Governors.  “The U.S. is not competitively devaluing its currency,
that is total garbage,” Meyer said.  Meyer also said Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  isn’t a proponent of raising interest rates to keep
inflation from accelerating. Investors who have that perception
have misread his comments, he said.  The Fed last month expanded its asset purchase program to
buy $600 billion of Treasuries in six months in an effort to
bolster the economy. The measure may prompt U.S. legislators to
draft trade legislation with countries such as China, which
limits movement in its currency, Rogoff said.  “The idea that China is this monster, gorilla in the world
economy, is not true -- they are very scared,” Rickards said.
“They made one very large mistake, that they trusted the U.S.”  International leaders including Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao 
have criticized the Fed, saying its policy will cause
instability and faster inflation. U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  has called on China to end its limits on the
yuan and let the currency rise against the dollar over time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Kathleen Hays  in New York at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  