-- CIBC Displaces TD With Corporate Bond Sales at 3-Year High: Canada Credit
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-02T12:43:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/cibc-displaces-td-with-corporate-bond-sales-at-3-year-high-canada-credit.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
ranks among the top three banks managing corporate bond sales in
Canada for the first time since 2004, displacing Toronto-
Dominion Bank as company issuance surges to a three-year high.  The bank’s CIBC World Markets unit ranks second this year
after leading debt sales for companies such as  Telus Corp.  and
BCE Inc. Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets is first,
extending its streak of more than a decade as the top arranger,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of Nova Scotia’s
Scotia Capital unit ranks third among Canada’s six major banks.  “It’s been an active year,” said  Susan Rimmer , a managing
director and CIBC World Market’s head of debt capital markets
for corporate and financials, in a telephone interview from
Toronto. “Interest rates are low, yields have been low,
corporate borrowers have been able to lock in attractive costs
of term borrowing.”  Companies have raised C$69.4 billion ($68.2 billion) in
bond sales this year, up from C$57.2 billion in all of 2009 and
the highest since 2007, according to Bloomberg data. Corporate
yields rose yesterday to 3.98 percent, after falling to an 18-
year low of 3.54 percent on Oct. 19, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data.  “Corporations are not only taking advantage of borrowing
money at low rates, but also refinancing old debt,” said  Hank Cunningham , a fixed-income strategist in Toronto at Odlum Brown
Ltd. and author of a book on the Canadian bond market. “It’s
collectively saving corporate Canada billions of dollars.”  CIBC World Markets ousted Toronto-Dominion’s investment
banking unit from a top-three spot for the first time since
2004. TD Securities ranks fourth after a third-place spot last
year, according to Bloomberg data.  Savings Billions  CIBC World Markets advanced from fourth spot last year and
No. 5 in 2008 by managing more sales of power companies
including Hydro One Inc. and Toronto Hydro Corp., and
telecommunication firms BCE and Telus. The Toronto-based firm
also raised about C$6.2 billion for its parent,  Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce , the country’s fifth-biggest bank.  By comparison, TD Securities had one C$1 billion debt sale
this year for its parent, Toronto-Dominion Bank, Canada’s
second-biggest bank.  “When we look at things, excluding self-led deals, we see
ourselves solidly in second place,”  Brad Saunders , vice
president of debt syndication at  TD Securities , said in an
interview.  CIBC reported today that fiscal fourth-quarter profit
dropped 22 percent to C$500 million, or C$1.17 a share. Before
one-time items, the bank had profit of C$1.68 a share, topping
the C$1.63-a-share average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Provincial Bonds  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own the debt of Canadian corporations rather than its
federal government widened 2 basis points yesterday to 144 basis
points. Spreads reached 134 basis points on Nov. 15, the
narrowest since May 10.  Relative yields on provincial bonds were unchanged at 53
basis points yesterday from the day before, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. They were at 53 basis points at the
beginning of November. Spreads have been as low as 51 basis
points in November and as high as 54. Yields rose to 3.25
percent yesterday.  Canada yesterday auctioned C$700 million of 30-year real-
return bonds, drawing a median yield of 1.07 percent. The
government received bids of C$1.4 billion for the 1.5 percent
inflation-indexed securities maturing in December 2044,
according to a Bank of Canada statement.  The  yield  on benchmark 10-year government bonds rose 11
basis points yesterday to 3.17 percent as the price of the 3.5
percent security due in June 2020 dropped 95 cents to C$102.65.
The 10-year yield has traded between 3.72 percent in April and
2.69 percent in October during the past 12 months.  Employment Gain  Canada’s 10-year bonds  yielded  20 basis points more than
the equivalent maturity U.S. security. The so-called yield
advantage in Canada’s favor has declined from 37 basis points on
Oct. 7, which was the most since January 2009, according to
Bloomberg data.  Canada’s sovereign debt lost 1.04 percent in November,
compared with a drop of about 0.85 percent for Treasuries
through Nov. 29.  Canada probably added 19,800 jobs last month, Statistics
Canada may say tomorrow, based on the average estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 24 economists. The unemployment rate may be
unchanged at 7.9 percent.  RBC Capital Markets managed C$19.5 billion in corporate
debt sales this year, compared with C$11.8 billion by CIBC World
Markets. Scotia Capital led C$10.3 billion in sales, while TD
Securities had C$8.55 billion.  Rush to Issue  CIBC World Markets helped arrange a C$1 billion debt sale
for Bell Canada, a C$200 million issue by  Cogeco Cable Inc.  and
a C$100 million issue by Enbridge Income Fund last month,
according to Bloomberg data. The firm also helped arrange a C$1
billion bond sale for Telus in July, helping the Vancouver-based
phone company refinance some of the C$3 billion in outstanding
debt left over from its 2001 takeover of Clearnet Inc.  “We have been busy this year, and I would expect we’ll
continue to be busy into the new year,” said Rimmer, who joined
CIBC World Markets from Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
unit last year. “I would expect generally issuance to be strong
in 2011 as well.”  Odlum Brown’s Cunningham said companies are selling more
debt to take advantage of lower borrowing costs.  “The issuers are saving money and obviously they’re
deciding that rates are going to rise, and they’re issuing as
many bonds as they can and as long a term as they can,”
Cunningham said.  If Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  starts to raise
interest rates next year, more companies will issue bonds to
beat the increases, Cunningham said.  “I see a busy corporate bond market,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  