-- Cleary Gottlieb Hires Norton Rose's Chan for Hong Kong as IPOs Hit Record
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2010-12-02T07:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/cleary-gottlieb-hires-norton-rose-s-chan-to-tap-hong-kong-legal-market.html
Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, 
which advised  United Co.  Rusal on its $2.24 billion Hong Kong
initial share sale this year, hired Norton Rose’s  Freeman Chan 
to start a local law practice in the Chinese city.  The New York-based law firm has other global clients
planning IPOs of a similar magnitude and will be able to advise
them on Hong Kong law from Feb. 1, according to Hong Kong-based
partner  Clay Johnson . The capability will also allow Cleary
Gottlieb to better serve private equity clients doing deals with
Hong Kong-listed Chinese companies, he said today.  Wall Street law firms Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP,  Milbank,
Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP  and  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP  have
hired new partners to expand their Hong Kong offices in the past
year as they bet that the special administrative region of China
is the key to fees from the world’s fastest-growing major
economy. A record $44 billion has been raised by 74 companies in
initial share sales in the city this year.  “Adding Hong Kong law capability to our existing,
successful Asia practice is a natural and important extension of
our firm’s global business model,” Cleary Gottlieb Managing
Partner  Mark Walker  said in a statement.  The firm has more than 40 lawyers in Hong Kong and Beijing,
including 17 Hong Kong-qualified lawyers.  Chan, 48, is a member of the takeovers and mergers panel of
Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission, and has advised
companies including China Modern Dairy Holdings Ltd. and
Springland International Holdings Ltd. on their IPOs in the
city, according to the statement.  David Stannard , Asia head of London-based Norton Rose, said
the law firm wishes Chan all the best. It has doubled its
lawyers in Hong Kong in the last 15 months to 90, he said.  Cleary Gottlieb, which opened in Hong Kong in 1980, plans
to hire about six more lawyers for Hong Kong and Beijing,
Johnson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net ;
Debra Mao in Hong Kong 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  