-- Color Nook One-Ups Kindle in E-Reader Battle: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2010-12-02T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/color-nook-one-ups-kindle-in-e-reader-battle-rich-jaroslovsky.html
This isn’t supposed to be the year of
the color-screen e-reader. Led by  Amazon.com Inc .’s Kindle,
monochrome readers have just burst into the mainstream. Color?
Not until at least 2011, unless you’re willing to pay a lot more
for a full-fledged tablet computer like Apple’s iPad or
Samsung’s Galaxy Tab.  Well, Barnes & Noble Inc. didn’t get the memo. Its new
$249, Wi-Fi-enabled Nook Color reader is on sale now, and
provides a satisfying reading experience for half the cost of a
tablet.  That’s surprising, because I wasn’t a fan of the original
Nook, an agonizingly slow and buggy Kindle knock-off when it
debuted a year ago. It’s improved since then, though it still
hasn’t caught up to the Kindle.  By contrast, the Nook Color, with its bright backlit screen
and touch interface, has beaten Amazon to the punch. Not to
mention  Sony Corp ., which pioneered the e-reader but remains
mired with a line of handsome yet overpriced monochrome devices.  Given the tradeoffs that the Nook Color requires in terms
of price -- the Kindle starts at $139 -- weight and battery
life, the first question has to be: Is color really worth it? It
depends on what type of books you read. If it’s mostly fiction
-- just words on a page -- then either color or the E Ink
monochrome display used in the Kindle, Sony Reader and original
Nook will do the job.  Color, though, is far more satisfying for non-fiction, art
and children’s books, whose photos and other illustrations lose
their punch when rendered on monochrome screens. It’s better for
magazines too, and the liquid-crystal display technology used in
the Nook Color and iPad also allows video to be incorporated
more easily.  Reader Pipeline    China ’s Hanvon Technology Co. recently announced it will
start selling a reader using a color version of E Ink next year,
and  Qualcomm Inc . says its Mirasol color technology is on the
way too. Barnes & Noble, though, has opted to use a 7-inch LCD
from  Korea ’s LG Display Co. At 8.1 inches tall, 5 inches wide
and .48 inches thick, the Nook Color is marginally larger than
the Kindle but still slips into a jacket pocket. The biggest
difference is in the weight: The Nook Color is 15.8 ounces,
almost twice as heavy as the Kindle.  The device the Nook most resembles in size and weight is
Samsung’s Galaxy Tab iPad-competitor. Both run  Google Inc .’s
Android operating system, though the Nook’s version has been
customized to make it feel less like an overgrown smartphone.
The Nook is also thinner and sleeker than the Galaxy.  Touch Advantage  Barnes & Noble has done a good job revamping the Nook’s
interface to take advantage of the color version’s touch
capabilities. There are multiple ways of accessing your library,
including a scrolling display of up to 50 covers on the home
screen and a “Keep Reading” icon that automatically returns
you to your most recently viewed book or periodical.  You turn pages either by tapping or swiping the screen.
Pressing and holding the screen for two seconds opens pop-up
menus that allow you to annotate a passage, look up a word or
term in the built-in dictionary or connect to the Internet for
more information.  Oh, and add the Internet to the list of things the Nook
Color does better than monochrome e-readers. Its built-in
browser makes the Web look like the Web, while the touch screen
makes it much easier to navigate than on most digital-ink
readers.  Android Apps  The Android operating system enables the  Nook Color  to run
apps, and several are built in, including a music player,
 Pandora Internet radio , a contact manager and a few games.
Barnes & Noble says more apps will follow, but will be limited
to those that complement or enhance the reading experience. The
company says it has no plans to open the Nook Color to the
broader universe of Android apps: This is a device aimed at
readers, not a stealth iPad-killer.  Besides weight and cost, the Nook’s biggest drawback
compared with digital-ink readers is battery life. It claims
eight hours, which is good for a color LCD tablet, but far less
than the Kindle, which can go a month between charges.  There are other issues as well. In my tests, the Nook Color
would occasionally jump forward a few pages on its own while I
was reading. In addition, while the device is capable of
reorienting itself from portrait to landscape view when you turn
it, Barnes & Noble inexplicably prevents you from doing so for
some books.  All backlit screens, the Nook Color’s among them, are
harder to read in direct sunlight than are digital-ink devices.
On the other hand, they are easier to read at night, since they
don’t require an external light source. In the end, if all you
want from an e-reader is words, the Kindle is still the class of
the field. But if you’re looking for a richer and more book-like
experience, Barnes & Noble has jumped out in front.    Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 