-- CFTC Told Disruptive Trading Rules Threaten Market Liquidity
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-12-02T18:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/commodities-regulators-told-disruptive-trading-rules-threaten-liquidity.html
The top U.S. commodity regulator may
hamper markets if it writes rules to stop disruptive trading
practices without considering the intent behind a transaction,
representatives of high-frequency trading firms said.  The firms said that without a better sense of the purpose
of a trade, regulators could restrict practices that move
markets but are not disruptive.  “What really needs to be there, in my mind, are some
notions of intent,” said  Cameron Smith , general counsel of
Quantlab Financial LLC, at a meeting today of the  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  in Washington.  The CFTC in October said it was seeking public comment on
whether and how to regulate potentially disruptive practices
including algorithmic trading and “spoofing,” in which someone
enters a bid or offer with the intent of canceling it before the
trade is carried out.  The commission was authorized to write the rules under the
Dodd-Frank financial overhaul, which became law in July and gave
the commission a year to establish rules governing the $583
trillion over-the-counter derivatives market. Congress took aim
at the industry after soured trades on mortgage and credit
derivatives tipped the U.S. economy into the deepest recession
since the 1930s.  Donald Wilson, founder and chief executive officer of DRW
Trading Group, said at the meeting that markets could be
“significantly harmed” if the rules lack specifics about the
intent of the trades. “Exactly the intent of Dodd-Frank was to
bring more transparency to the marketplace,” Wilson said.
“Exactly the opposite will be achieved.”  Narrow Rule  Though the Dodd-Frank law expressly prohibits spoofing,
Joel Hasbrouck, a professor at New York University, said that a
rule tailored to that practice would likely be too narrow. “I
think it is going to be based on intent,” he said. “And I
would not be in the position of wanting to have to define it.”  The Dodd-Frank law also prohibits conduct that demonstrates
“intentional or reckless disregard for the orderly execution of
transactions in the closing period.” The language targets a
practice known as “banging the close” in which traders attempt
to affect a settlement price by buying or selling large volumes
just before the day’s end of business.  John Hyland , chief investment officer of U.S. Commodity
Funds LLC, an Alameda, California-based firm whose exchange-
traded products include the U.S. Natural Gas Fund and U.S. Oil
Fund, said rules governing disruptive trading may hamper
liquidity. “We have a concern that the unintended consequence
would be for the liquidity to be driven off,” Hyland said.  Swap Rules  The financial revamp, named for its primary authors, Senate
Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut
Democrat, and House Financial Services Chairman Barney Frank, a
Massachusetts Democrat, mandates that most interest-rate,
commodity and other swaps be processed by clearinghouses after
being traded on exchanges or swap-execution facilities.  The CFTC proposed rules on Oct. 26 to expand its ability to
prohibit fraud and manipulation in the markets for commodities
including oil, natural gas, precious metals, wheat and corn.  Under current law, manipulation cases hinge on a four-
pronged test that begins with proving that prices were
“artificial,” or outside the bounds of normal supply and
demand. Then the government must prove that the accused had the
ability to cause an artificial price, took actions to cause it
and intended it.  The CFTC proposal adds a prohibition on fraud-based
manipulation that would cover intentional and reckless conduct
that deceives or defrauds market participants. Penalties include
a $1 million fine or triple the monetary gain, whichever is
greater, and restitution to customers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Lawrence
Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  