-- Retail Sales Up Most Since March on Black Friday Boost
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-12-02T21:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/costco-wholesale-limited-brands-report-november-sales-gains.html
Retail sales rose the most in
eight months in November, led by  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 
and J.C. Penney Co., and beat analysts’ estimates as
consumers gobbled up discounts, particularly during the
Thanksgiving weekend.  Teen retailer Abercrombie increased so-called same-
store sales 22 percent, above the 6.4 percent average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Retail Metrics Inc.  J.C.
Penney , the third-largest U.S. department store chain,
boosted sales 9.2 percent, above a projection of 3.3
percent. Apparel retailer  Gap Inc. , posted a gain of 5
percent, surpassing estimates.  Retailers began discounting earlier in November than
the past few years and continued through Black Friday, the
day after Thanksgiving and the biggest shopping day of the
year. Some consumers are looking to spend as their fortunes
improve alongside the  employment  outlook.  “We have continued to see people who have a pent-up
demand,” said Keith Jelinek, a director in the retail
practice at consultant AlixPartners. “People are more
optimistic because they feel things can’t get worse and
believe there is a light at the end of the tunnel.”  Abercrombie, based in New Albany, Ohio, surged $5.58,
or 11 percent, to $56.02 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading  for the largest  gain  since March
4. J.C. Penney, based in Plano, Texas, advanced 77 cents,
or 2.3 percent, to $34.47. Gap, the San Francisco-based
operator of the Banana Republic and Old Navy chains, rose
11 cents to $21.67.  Beating Estimates  Overall, sales at the more than 30 chains tracked by
Retail Metrics surpassed estimates last month, rising 5.3
percent for a 14th straight gain, compared with a
prediction of 3.5 percent. Sales gained 8.7 percent in
March, the largest advance in a decade.  Retailers benefited from more shopping during the
Thanksgiving weekend. Estimated sales for the four days
reached $45 billion, a 9.1 percent gain from a year ago, as
the number of shoppers rose 8.7 percent to 212 million,
according to the National Retail Federation.  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. This kind of revenue is a key
indicator of a retailer’s growth because new and closed
locations are excluded.  Costco Wholesale Corp.  and Target Corp. led gains for
discounters and both beat estimates. Department stores also
stood out as  Macy’s Inc. , Kohl’s Corp. and Nordstrom Inc.
joined J.C. Penney in surpassing projections.  ‘Widespread Strength’  “Across the board, there was widespread strength,”
said Ken Perkins, president of Swampscott, Massachusetts-
based Retail Metrics. “The consumer is feeling better
about their situation and is more inclined to spend on
discretionary purchases. It bodes well for what will come
over the next three and a half weeks.”  Aeropostale Inc. , the New York-based teen retailer,
was one of the few misses as sales dropped 1 percent last
month, below the average estimate of a 0.6 percent gain.
The shares fell as much as 14 percent, the biggest  drop 
since December 2008.  Sales gained at many retailers last month as consumers
became more positive on the economy. The people who believe
the recession in the U.S. has ended increased to 17 percent
from 13 percent late last month, according to a survey by
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. That’s the highest reading since the
question was first asked in May.  Confidence among shoppers also rose in November to the
highest level in five months, according to the New York-
based Conference Board. U.S. employment also improved last
month as businesses added 93,000 workers to payrolls, the
most in three years, according to ADP Employer Services.  Colder and wetter weather also may have boosted sales
last month as consumers bought more outerwear after
unseasonably warm weather in October, Perkins said.
Abercrombie said sales of sweaters and fleeces led its
revenue gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  