-- States' Bid to Block Asian Carp Migration to Great Lakes Rejected by Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-12-02T23:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/court-rejects-five-state-bid-to-block-asian-carp-migration-to-great-lakes.html
A federal court denied a request by
Michigan and four other states bordering the Great Lakes to
order the closing of links between the Mississippi River and
Lake Michigan to block the migration of Asian carp.  U.S. District Judge  Robert M. Dow  in Chicago today ruled
that the states failed to show the requisite imminent harm
required to compel him to order action by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers and Illinois’s Metropolitan Water Reclamation District
of Greater Chicago.  Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Ohio and Pennsylvania sued
in July, claiming that infiltration of the invasive species
through waterways connecting the river and lake threatened the
$7 billion sport fishing and tourism industry.  “There doesn’t appear to be any imminent threat that
hordes of Asian carp are swimming upstream,” said Dick Lanyon,
executive director of the water reclamation district, who
praised the decision. The suing states’ evidence was “not very
convincing,” he said.  Michigan Attorney General  Mike Cox  and his peers had sought
a preliminary injunction from Dow. Cox said after the ruling
that the attorneys general will confer on whether to press on
with the case before Dow, or pursue an appeal. Cox faulted U.S.
President  Barack Obama  for not issuing an executive order to
close man-made locks linking the water basins.  ’Flick a Switch’  “President Obama could stop the spread of Asian carp with
the flick of a switch,” Cox said in a statement. Dow has
scheduled a status conference in the case for Jan. 7.  “We are pleased with the result and continue to review the
decision,” Wyn Hornbuckle, a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Asian carp escaped into the Mississippi after being brought
to the U.S. to cleanse fish ponds and sewage lagoons and in
ballast water discharged by ocean-going ships. The fish grow as
large as 100 pounds (45 kilograms) and feed on plankton that
native species need to survive, according to the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.  The suing states claimed that measures taken by the federal
government and Illinois authorities, including creation of
electrical barriers in the waterways, didn’t adequately address
the threat posed by the fish.  They sought the closure of locks at the mouths of the
Chicago and Calumet rivers, where they meet Lake Michigan, as
well as installation of permanent screens, grates and other
measures to stop the alleged migration. Chicago, the third-most
populous U.S. city, abuts the southwestern edge of the lake.  Closing Opposed  Opposition to closing the locks from the Army Corps and the
reclamation district -- which is responsible for managing the
76-mile (122-kilometer) waterway network -- was joined by
businesses that rely on those connections for commerce.  The opponents told Dow there was no conclusive proof that
substantial numbers of live carp were encroaching on Lake
Michigan.  “At the end of the day, plaintiffs have not carried their
burden of showing that the balance of the harms weighs in their
favor,” Dow wrote in a 61-page decision.  He heard five days of evidence and argument between Aug. 23
and Oct. 18.  “This lawsuit has been a distraction from the goal we are
all ultimately trying to reach -- a comprehensive solution to
dealing with increased populations of Asian carp,” Mark Biel,
president of a coalition of businesses opposing the states’
lawsuit, said in a statement following Dow’s decision.  The case is State of Michigan v. U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers, 10-cv-4457, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  