-- Oil Trims Losses to Trade Near Two-Year High on Economic Recovery Optimism
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-12-02T06:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/crude-oil-trades-near-three-week-high-as-u-s-labor-data-fuels-optimism.html
Oil traded near the highest in three
weeks after greater-than-forecast growth in U.S. private
employment bolstered optimism fuel demand will increase in the
world’s biggest crude consumer.  Prices erased losses earlier today as cold weather boosted
heating demand and disrupted transport in Europe. A government
report tomorrow is expected to show the U.S. added 145,000 new
jobs, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Reports showed U.S. payrolls rose in November while the
country’s manufacturing expanded for a 16th straight month.  “The U.S. data was very supportive for prices,” said
 Serene Lim , a commodity analyst at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. in Singapore. “People are expecting that the
payroll report to be quite positive so that should boost oil
prices also.”  The January contract was at $86.73 a barrel, down 2 cents
in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange at
2:36 p.m. Singapore time. Yesterday, it rose $2.64 to close at
$86.75, the highest settlement since Nov. 11.  Crude trimmed yesterday’s 3.1 percent gain earlier today
after Energy Department data showed U.S. fuel consumption
declined for a third week and oil supplies unexpectedly rose a
second week.  U.S. fuel demand, in terms of products supplied to refiners,
dropped 1.8 percent to 18.5 million barrels a day in the week
ended Nov. 26, the lowest in six weeks, the Energy Department
said. Crude stockpiles  increased by  1.07 million barrels. They
were forecast to decrease by 1.15 million barrels, according to
the median of 16 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Dollar Rallies  Futures also pared some gains as the greenback rallied. The
 Dollar Index , a measure against six major currencies, rose as
much as 0.2 percent today. The dollar was up 0.3 percent against
the euro.  Oil gained 3.3 percent last month and is 9.2 percent higher
this year. Prices climbed yesterday on signs the global recovery
is strengthening, stoking speculation oil demand may rise.  Brent crude for January settlement was at $88.85 a barrel,
down 2 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The contract rose $2.95, or 3.4 percent, to $88.87 yesterday.  U.S. gasoline inventories climbed last week while
distillate fuel supplies, including diesel and heating oil,
slipped. Crude stockpiles at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery
point for New York oil futures, jumped 2.7 percent to 34.5
million barrels.  The Cushing gains have increased the discount between
January New York futures and London’s Brent contract to $2.05 a
barrel today compared with $1.05 a month ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  