-- Crude Oil Trades Near Three-Week High as Venezuela Says $100 Price `Fair'
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-12-02T10:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/crude-oil-trades-near-three-week-high-as-venezuela-says-100-price-fair-.html
Oil traded near the highest price in
three weeks as signs of economic recovery in the U.S. stoked
speculation that fuel demand will increase in the world’s
biggest crude consumer.  Venezuelan Energy Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said $100 is a
barrel a “fair price” for oil and that OPEC is unlikely to
change its output quotas at its meeting later this month. A U.S.
government report tomorrow may show the U.S. added 145,000 jobs
last month, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Prices gained earlier today as cold weather boosted heating
demand and disrupted transport in Europe.  “We seem to be close to the top of the trading range, so
we’ll need something new to push oil through $90 and cold
weather may not be enough,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior
broker at Bache Commodities Ltd. in London.  The January contract on the New York Mercantile Exchange
was at $86.92 a barrel, up 5 cents, in electronic trading at
9:19 a.m. London time. Yesterday, it rose $2.64 to close at
$86.75, the highest settlement since Nov. 11. Brent crude for
January settlement was up 29 cents at $89.15 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Global economic growth will drive New York crude futures to
an average $110 a barrel in 2012, up from a forecast of $100 a
barrel for next year, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report
yesterday. Oil gained 3.3 percent last month and has advanced
9.4 percent this year.  ‘Fair’ Price  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
responsible for 40 percent of global supplies, is unlikely to
change its output quotas when it meets in Quito, Ecuador, on
Dec. 11, Venezuela’s Ramirez told reporters today in Doha, where
he was attending a meeting of the Gas Exporting Countries Forum.
He said $100 represents a “fair” price for a barrel of oil.  Payrolls in the U.S. rose while the country’s manufacturing
expanded for a 16th straight month, according to government data
released yesterday. An Energy Department report showed U.S. fuel
consumption declined for a third week and oil supplies
unexpectedly rose a second week.  U.S. fuel demand, in terms of products supplied to
refiners, dropped 1.8 percent to 18.5 million barrels a day in
the week ended Nov. 26, the lowest in six weeks, the Energy
Department said. Crude stockpiles  increased by  1.07 million
barrels. They were forecast to decrease by 1.15 million barrels,
according to the median of 16 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Gasoline inventories climbed last week while distillate
fuel supplies, including diesel and heating oil, slipped. Crude
stockpiles at Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for New York
oil futures, jumped 2.7 percent to 34.5 million barrels.  The Cushing gains have increased the discount between
January New York futures and London’s Brent contract to $2.30 a
barrel today compared with $1.05 a month ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net 
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  