-- Dale Says U.K. Budget Cuts Won't Derail Recovery as BOE Monitors Inflation
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-12-02T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/dale-says-u-k-budget-cuts-won-t-derail-recovery-as-boe-monitors-inflation.html
Bank of England Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale  said the government’s budget squeeze won’t
“derail” the economic recovery and the central bank remains as
determined as ever to tackle  inflation .  “The direct impact of this reduced spending” is
“unlikely to derail the recovery,” Dale said in a speech
released in London late yesterday. While it will “certainly
dampen growth,” the “substantial stimulus from monetary policy
and the lower level of sterling should ensure that the recovery
continues.”  The Bank of England held its key  interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent in November, with officials split on policy
as inflation remained above the government’s 3 percent limit.
The Treasury’s fiscal watchdog said on Nov. 29 that the British
economy faces a “sluggish” outlook.  “The current focus of monetary policy is on providing the
stimulus necessary to support the recovery so the degree of
spare capacity in our economy is gradually reduced,” Dale said.
“That is critical if we are to hit the inflation target” of 2
percent “in the medium term.”  He said oil prices and a sales-tax increase added to cost
pressures and his approach to policy is based on a judgment that
these won’t feed through to medium-term inflation.  “The Monetary Policy Committee remains as hard-nosed as
ever in its determination to hit the inflation target,” Dale
said. “The onus is on us to explain why, in the face of
persistently above-target inflation, we are not tightening.”  While U.K. policy maker  Andrew Sentance  has called on the
central bank to “gradually” raise interest rates, his
colleague  Adam Posen  has said more stimulus is needed to help
offset the impact of the government’s budget squeeze.  King Controversy  Governor  Mervyn King  has supported the government’s fiscal
plans in comments that Posen has criticized as overly political.
He said on Nov. 25 he was “uncomfortable” with the bank’s
support for Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s deficit-reduction
plans. Former central bank official  David Blanchflower  yesterday
called on King to quit after an additional controversy, when
WikiLeaks published a cable by the U.S. ambassador citing the
governor’s concerns that Cameron lacked experience.  Dale also said that while it is too early to say the U.K.
is “out of the woods,” he takes “encouragement” from the
composition of U.K. growth, citing improving domestic spending.
He said the  pound’s decline  should support the recovery and that
it has helped stem the decline in the U.K.’s share of global
exports.  However, sales of services overseas have fallen, partly due
to the financial crisis, and the prospects for net trade will
depend on a revival in global demand, Dale said.  Support  “Spending by households and businesses has begun to
pickup,” Dale said. “Over the next few years the economy is
likely to grow at rates around or a little above its historical
average, supported by monetary policy” and the pound.  King said on Nov. 25 that policy makers view inflation
risks as “broadly balanced” and are ready to act as needed.
 Consumer-price growth  accelerated to 3.2 percent in October.  “This uncomfortable juxtaposition of high inflation and
loose policy has led some people to put two and two together and
make five,” Dale said. “The MPC has gone soft on inflation,
they claim. It has taken its eye off the ball. I understand why
some people think this. But it is simply not true.”  Nevertheless, he said there is a risk that the bank’s
strategy could cause companies and households to “question the
MPC’s competence” and push up wages. In that scenario, the bank
“would be forced to tighten policy, potentially aggressively,”
Dale said.  For now, “it seems clear to me that there is some degree
of spare capacity and that this is likely to damp inflationary
pressures,” Dale said. “We need to see a sustained period of
robust growth for the economy to function normally again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  