-- Datang Wind-Power Unit's Hong Kong IPO Lures Chalco, Angang, China Grid
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2010-12-02T05:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/datang-wind-power-unit-s-hong-kong-ipo-lures-chalco-angang-china-grid.html
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  and
Angang New Co. will each buy a $50 million stake in the initial
public offering of China Datang Corp.’s wind-power unit in Hong
Kong, according to a term sheet sent to investors today.  The companies are among key investors who will pay a
combined $250 million for stock in  China Datang Corp. Renewable
Power Co. , the terms show.  State Grid Corp. of China  and China
Yangtze Power Co. will also purchase $50 million stakes, the
terms for the HK$6.8 billion ($875 million) IPO show.  The Datang unit plans to set the price for its shares on
Dec. 10 and start trading on Dec. 17. The sale will add to the
record $49 billion raised in Hong Kong IPOs this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The amount includes funds raised
through the exercising of over-allotment options.  Aluminum Corp., the listed unit of China’s biggest maker of
the metal, will buy its shares through a Hong Kong unit. Shen
Hui, an investor relations manager for the company known as
Chalco, couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Angang, formed in a merger this year between Anshan Iron &
Steel Group and Pangang Group Co., will also make its purchase
through a Hong Kong subsidiary. Liu Jingyuan, a spokesman for
Anshan Iron & Steel, said he had no information regarding the
investment.  Lou Jian, Beijing-based secretary for Yangtze Power, and
officials at State Grid Power couldn’t immediately be reached
for comment.  China Longyuan Power Group Corp.  will buy a $30 million
stake through a unit, the terms show. Officials at the Hong
Kong-listed company couldn’t be reached.  China Everbright Ltd., Credit Suisse Group AG, JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Macquarie Group Ltd. and UBS AG are managing the
IPO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  