-- Democrats' Middle-Income Tax-Cut Extension Passed by House in 234-188 Vote
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2010-12-02T22:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/democrats-middle-income-tax-cut-extension-passed-by-house-in-234-188-vote.html
The U.S. House passed a Democratic
plan to extend Bush-era tax cuts for middle-income families over
the objections of Republicans who say it would harm the economy
by letting taxes go up on Jan. 1 for those with higher incomes.  The vote was 234-188 for the measure, which would
permanently extend lower rates and expanded tax credits on the
first $200,000 of individuals’ income and the first $250,000 for
married couples. Taxpayers with higher annual income would face
increased taxes on wages, capital gains and dividends.
Republicans say they plan to block the measure in the Senate.  Republicans “are determined to take care of the rich,”
said Representative  Jim McDermott  of Washington. “That
political maneuvering by the Republicans brings uncertainty to
the middle class when they really need certainty.”  Republicans derided the vote as political theater, and
House Minority Leader  John Boehner  of Ohio said it was “chicken
crap.”  President  Barack Obama  applauded the House action in a
White House statement that said the administration continues to
negotiate with Republicans “to find a way forward.” Reports that
a deal is imminent are “inaccurate and premature,” the statement
said.  Representative  David Camp , a Michigan Republican who is set
to become chairman of the Ways and Means Committee in January,
said Republicans voted against the legislation because it would
hurt higher-income taxpayers and the economy.  “This is not about giving anybody a tax cut,” he said.
“This is about preventing a tax increase in a time of great
unemployment.”  Slated to Expire  Under current law, the tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003
are slated to expire Dec. 31.  Several Democrats voted against the measure, including
 Kathy Dahlkemper  of Pennsylvania,  Michael McMahon  of New York,
 Walt Minnick  of Idaho,  James Moran  of Virginia and  Mike Thompson 
of California.  Three House Republicans voted in favor of the measure
including  Ron Paul  of Texas,  Jimmy Duncan  of Tennessee and
 Walter Jones  of North Carolina.  Separately, bipartisan negotiators from the White House
and both chambers of Congress continued their talks on tax-cut
extensions. President  Barack Obama  told a group of newly elected
governors that he’s “confident” tax cuts for the middle class
will be passed this month, though he said there may be some
“posturing.”  Tax-Cut Extensions  The House legislation would preserve the 10, 25, 28, and 33
percent rates for the income thresholds of $200,000 and
$250,000.  It would retain the 15 percent tax rate on dividends and
capital gains for those who earn up to the threshold. The top
income tax rate would increase from 35 percent to 39.6 percent
and the top capital-gains rate would rise to 20 percent. People
in the highest tax brackets would have their dividends taxed as
ordinary income.  The bill also extends for two years an inflation adjustment
to the alternative minimum tax, which is slated to impose an
additional $66 billion in levies and affect 21 million
additional households for this tax year if Congress does not
act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Rubin  in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  