-- Deutsche Boerse Said to Discuss Russian Exchange Tie Ups to Boost Trading
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2010-12-03T17:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/deutsche-boerse-russian-exchanges-said-to-discuss-links-to-boost-trading.html
Russia is in talks with  Deutsche
Boerse AG  about creating an alliance with Moscow’s two biggest
stock exchanges to boost listings and trading in the face of
competition from London and Hong Kong, two people involved in
the negotiations said.   Micex ,  RTS  and Deutsche Boerse, Europe’s largest exchange
by market value, may swap equity as part of the deal, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
confidential. Russian companies may be offered listings in both
countries, helping the exchanges win market share, they said.  The tie-up would advance President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s drive
to transform Moscow into an international financial center as he
seeks to diversify the economy away from energy exports. Moscow-
based United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
in January raised $2.2 billion in Hong Kong, the biggest Russian
IPO this year. Mail.ru Group Ltd., a Russian investor in
Facebook Inc., raised $912 million in London last month.  “Moscow as a global financial center has an ambitious
plan, and this should be combined with the opportunities of
German bourses, including the Frankfurt Stock Exchange,” First
Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov , who oversees efforts to
attract investment, said in an October interview. “There are
talks,” he said, declining to elaborate on possible links.  The partnership would also give investors in Russian
equities access to the German company’s  Eurex Clearing  and
Clearstream settlement systems, both of the people said.  ‘Unique Partner’  Deutsche Boerse rose 1.4 percent to a three-week high of
49.18 euros in Frankfurt trading. The benchmark DAX Index fell
0.1 percent.  The company is providing Russia with advice on how to
develop its market and keeps in “constant contact” with
officials in Moscow, said  Rainer Riess , managing director of the
Germany company’s Xetra Market Development.  “We feel we would be a unique partner because we would
have a lot to offer as a group with our trading, clearing and
settlement platforms,” Riess said Nov. 26 in a phone interview
from Frankfurt. “Russia still has a few issues to resolve in
the clearing and settlement space.”  Deutsche Boerse would like to see the integration of
Moscow’s market infrastructure and its two central depositaries
before forming an alliance, Riess said. Micex’s National
Depositary Center and RTS’s Depository Clearing Company are
battling to become Russia’s leading clearing company.  Roman Goryunov , chief executive officer of  RTS , Moscow’s
oldest exchange, and Andrei Saiko, a spokesman for  Micex , both
declined to comment.  Exchange Consolidation  Rising competition from electronic trading platforms and
investor demands to cut trading costs have driven at least $68
billion in acquisitions among global exchanges since January
2007, including NYSE Group Inc.’s purchase of Euronext NV and
Nasdaq Stock Market Inc.’s takeover of OMX AB, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Singapore Exchange on Oct. 25 offered A$8.4 billion ($8.3
billion) in cash and shares for ASX Ltd., the operator of
Australia’s main bourse. The Hong Kong and Malaysian exchanges
said last month they would also consider alliances.  The ruble-denominated Micex is the biggest venue for
trading in Russian stocks, at 51.70 billion rubles ($1.7
billion) on Nov. 26, according to Bloomberg data. The dollar-
denominated RTS is the biggest market for Russian futures and
options, with trades reaching a record $6.7 billion on Nov. 11,
according to the RTS website.  Micex is seeking to buy RTS in a “friendly takeover,”
Bank Rossii First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  told
reporters Nov. 18 in Moscow.  ‘Room for Maneuver’  The central bank is Micex’s main shareholder, with a 30
percent stake. State-owned banks  VTB Group ,  OAO Sberbank  and VEB
also hold shares. RTS is owned by Russian and international
investment banks, including Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG,
Otkritie Financial Corp., Alfa Bank and Troika Dialog.  Deutsche Boerse, owner of the Eurex derivatives market,
acquired International Securities Exchange Holdings Inc., the
second-largest U.S. options exchange, in 2007 for $2.8 billion.  It operates the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and owns its own
clearing and settlement units, which means it makes money from
trade-processing.  The German bourse  signed  a memorandum of understanding with
Micex in December 2006 to “internationalize the German and
Russian financial markets with a view to attract additional
investments in Russian companies,” according to the joint
statement.  Deutsche Boerse won shareholder approval in May to increase
its authorized capital.  “We must take advantage of opportunities to increase our
value creation,” Chief Executive Officer  Reto Francioni  said at
the time. “A globally operating company competing at an
international level does, in principle, require room for
maneuver in order to be able to have realistic scenarios under
potential exceptional circumstances.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net .
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris in London at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net .
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  