-- Distressed Homes in U.S. Sell at Biggest Discount in Five Years
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-12-02T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/distressed-u-s-homes-sell-at-biggest-discount-since-2005-as-demand-slumps.html
U.S. homes in the  foreclosure  process
sold for about 32 percent less than non-distressed properties in
the third quarter, the biggest discount in five years, as buyer
demand slumped, according to RealtyTrac Inc.  The average discount for bank-owned real estate, residences
in default or those scheduled for auction rose from 29 percent a
year earlier,  RealtyTrac  said in a report today. A quarter of
all U.S. transactions involved those types of homes, according
to the Irvine, California-based data seller.  Sales of foreclosure properties plunged 31 percent as the
end of a buyer tax credit reduced purchases overall, RealtyTrac
said. The decline came before loan servicers including  Bank of
America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . halted some home seizures
amid claims that employees processed thousands of documents
without verifying them, a practice known as robo-signing.  “The foreclosure-processing controversy, which was brought
to light at the very end of the third quarter, could chill
demand even further,”  James J. Saccacio , chief executive
officer of RealtyTrac, said in the report.  Home seizures dropped 9 percent in October from the
previous month, RealtyTrac reported Nov. 11. The company’s data
are from information recorded in government registers. Another
company,  Lender Processing Services Inc. , reported a 36 percent
plunge, basing its figures on data collected from servicers at
the time of foreclosure.  Negotiating Price Cuts  Carl Chmielewski, a broker with Providence Realty LLC in
Hudson, Ohio, who specializes in selling foreclosed properties,
said 14 of his sales were put on hold in October while loan
servicers or owners, including Bank of America, JPMorgan,  Fannie
Mae  and  Ally Financial Inc. ’s GMAC unit, made sure the papers
were properly processed.  Lenders are now more willing to negotiate lower prices for
foreclosures, said Chmielewski, who said he sells 25 to 30 homes
during a typical month.  “We’re finding there’s more flexibility by banks,” he
said in a telephone interview. “Offers that wouldn’t have been
accepted a couple of years ago are now.”  Fannie Mae began offering incentives on its seized homes in
September, including giving as much as 3.5 percent of the sales
price for closing fees. Brokers representing buyers of Fannie
Mae’s foreclosed homes also stood to receive a $1,500 bonus for
closing a sale, according to a Sept. 23  announcement.   41% Discount  Bank-owned real estate sold at an average 41 percent
discount in the third quarter, up from 35 percent a year
earlier, RealtyTrac said. Discounts for homes in default or
scheduled for auction averaged 19 percent, compared with 18
percent a year earlier. Most of those properties were short
sales, in which a lender accepts less than the balance on a
mortgage, said  Daren Blomquist , a RealtyTrac spokesman.  The overall discount was the biggest since the fourth
quarter of 2005, when the average was 34 percent. Only 0.5
percent of U.S. sales were foreclosures at that time, according
to RealtyTrac.  Sales of  existing homes , which make up more than 90 percent
of the market, declined more than forecast in October amid the
foreclosure moratoriums and the absence of the tax credit of as
much as $8,000, the National Association of Realtors reported
Nov. 23. Purchases fell in July to the slowest pace in a
decade’s worth of record-keeping by the Chicago-based group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 