-- Dollar Falls Versus Most Peers as Surprise Housing Gain Damps Haven Demand
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-12-02T22:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/dollar-falls-versus-euro-after-u-s-pending-home-sales-unexpectedly-gain.html
The dollar fell against most of its
major counterparts after U.S. pending home sales unexpectedly
rose in October and stocks and commodities gained, fueling
investor appetite for riskier assets.  The euro slid earlier versus the dollar after European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  refrained from
announcing new measures to curb Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.
Trichet signaled policy makers will delay withdrawal of stimulus
measures and said the bank will keep buying government bonds.  “When we got home sales, we realized the market really
isn’t doing that badly,” said  Brian Taylor , chief currency
trader at Manufacturers & Traders Trust in Buffalo, New York.
“If the U.S. is going to be an economy that leads us out of the
recession, the sideways movement the world economy is in, the
housing market has to balloon back up.”  The dollar depreciated 0.5 percent to $1.3209 per euro at 5
p.m. in New York, from $1.3139 yesterday, after weakening as
much as 0.8 percent. It touched $1.2969 on Nov. 30, the
strongest level since Sept. 15. The greenback weakened 0.4
percent to 83.82 yen, from 84.19 yen. The euro rose 0.1 percent
to 110.72 yen, from 110.58 yesterday.  Commodity-linked currencies gained, with the South African
rand reaching a three-week high against the greenback.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index climbed 1.3 percent after a
report showed more Americans unexpectedly signed contracts to
purchase previously owned homes in October, easing concern that
the absence of government support is hurting the housing market.  Pending  home resales  jumped a record 10 percent after
dropping 1.8 percent in September, National Association of
Realtors data showed today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey called for a 1 percent decrease.  Trichet Disappoints  The euro weakened earlier after Trichet failed to announce
fresh steps to curb the debt crisis, including more purchases of
government bonds to try to restore normal functioning of the
region’s debt markets. The bank held its key interest rate at 1
percent, as forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Some people were hoping for some clear expansion of the
bond-buying program,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing director of
currency research in New York at Nomura Holdings Inc. “There
was nothing new -- that is a disappointment.”  The ECB met today under pressure from investors to stop the
debt crisis from engulfing Spain, the euro-area’s fourth largest
economy, after the Irish rescue four days ago failed to persuade
markets policy makers have the resolve needed to contain it.  ‘Status-Quo Announcement’  “The status-quo announcement from the ECB suggests that
there will be continued high risk of contagion of the debt
crisis,” said  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in Washington
at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage.
“He fell very short of the increase of bond purchases that the
market was hoping for. The risk is still to the downside for the
euro.”  The South African currency touched the strongest level
since Nov. 11 against the dollar. The rand was the best
performer versus all of its 16 most-traded counterparts, surging
as much as 2.2 percent to 6.8678 per dollar.  The Reuters-Jefferies  CRB Index  of raw materials rose for a
second day, increasing 1 percent.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro and yen, fell for a second
day. It declined 0.6 percent to 80.214.  Yuan Bet  Investors should bet the dollar will fall against China’s
currency through two-year non-deliverable forwards, according to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Pressures from external imbalances will
force China to allow the yuan to rise, economists led by  Dominic Wilson  in New York wrote in a report yesterday. Investors should
expect a 6 percent return, according to the report.  The Chinese government has allowed the currency to
appreciate 2.5 percent to 6.6613 since the two-year peg to the
dollar was relaxed in June.  Goldman revised its 2011 currency forecasts today, lowering
projections for the euro and yen against the dollar, according
to  Thomas Stolper , an economist at the firm in London. The bank
now expects the euro to trade at $1.50 at the end of next year,
compared with $1.55. The yen will reach 90 per dollar, versus a
previous estimate of 85.  Growth-linked currencies including the Canadian dollar also
rose before data tomorrow that will show U.S. employers added
150,000 jobs last month, according the median forecast of 87
economists in a Bloomberg survey. A gain of 151,000 jobs in
October was the biggest gain since May.  ‘Additional Clarity’  The market “will be treading water until we can get some
additional clarity from the report tomorrow,”  Andrew Busch , a
global currency strategist at Bank of Montreal in Chicago, said.  The Canadian currency advanced 1.4 percent to C$1.0030 per
U.S. dollar in the second-best performance versus the greenback.  The pound was the worst performer against all of its major
peers, falling from yesterday’s 10-week high against the euro as
U.K. government bonds dropped after Trichet said the ECB will
keep offering banks unlimited loans through the first quarter.  Sterling weakened 0.7 percent to 84.72 pence per euro,
after touching 83.35 pence yesterday, the strongest since Sept.
20. It fell 0.1 percent to $1.5604.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  