-- Dollar Rises on Signs U.S. Labor Market is Improving; Aussie Dollar Slides
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-12-02T07:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/dollar-rises-on-signs-u-s-labor-market-is-improving-aussie-dollar-slides.html
The dollar traded near a nine-week
high against the yen before a U.S. report that may show payrolls
expanded for a second month, adding to signs the recovery of the
world’s largest economy is gathering momentum.  The greenback gained against 11 of its 16 major peers as
military tensions on the Korean peninsula supported demand for
safe-haven assets. Australia’s dollar dropped after data showed
retail sales unexpectedly fell. Taiwan’s dollar surged on
prospects global funds will buy more of the island’s assets.  “Recent good economic data are supportive of the dollar,”
said Takayuki Asahara, a dealer in Tokyo at Shinkin Central
Bank, the central institution for Japan’s financial
cooperatives. “Further gains can be expected should the job
data tomorrow be positive.”  The dollar traded at 84.09 yen as of 6:47 a.m. in London
from 84.19 in New York yesterday. It reached 84.41 yen on Nov.
29, the highest level since Sept. 27. The greenback was little
changed at $1.3139 per euro, after climbing as high as $1.3088.
The euro was at 110.49 yen from 110.58 yen.  U.S. employers added 145,000 workers last month after a
151,000 gain in October, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before the Labor Department report tomorrow.  The Federal Reserve’s Beige Book showed yesterday
hiring improved, manufacturing expanded and retailers
anticipated a stronger holiday shopping season. ADP Employer
Services reported yesterday employment increased by 93,000 last
month, the most since November 2007. The median projection of
economists in another Bloomberg survey was for a 70,000 gain.  The dollar has risen 4 percent over the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has
fallen 0.8 percent and the euro declined 3.6 percent.  Korean Tensions  North Korea may attack the province that surrounds Seoul,
the Tokyo Shimbun newspaper said, citing an unidentified person
who quoted an official in the communist nation. South Korea will
hold artillery drills on Yeonpyeong, the island shelled by the
North last week, on Dec. 6, television broadcaster MBN reported
today, citing government officials it didn’t identify.  Japan and the U.S. will conduct a joint military exercise
from tomorrow until Dec. 10, the Joint Staff of the Japan Self-
Defense Forces said in a statement.  “Geopolitical risk appears to be returning a bit on
worries that North Korea may attack the South,” said  Satoshi Okagawa , head of the foreign-exchange and money trading group in
Singapore at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., a unit of Japan’s
third-largest banking group. “There’s some safe-haven buying of
the yen and the dollar.”  Australia Sales  The Australian dollar fell against 13 of its 16 most-traded
peers after the Bureau of Statistics said retail sales declined
1.1 percent in October. That compared with the 0.4 percent gain
estimated by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  There was “very weak consumer spending over the past few
months in Australia, so that’s certainly weighing on the
Aussie,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in Singapore.  The so-called Aussie declined to 81.40 yen from 81.53 yen
yesterday. It was little changed at 96.83 cents, after slipping
as much as 0.6 percent.  Taiwan’s dollar rose for the first time in three days as a
report today showed overseas investors bought more of the
island’s stocks than they sold this year. The local  economy 
expanded 9.8 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier
and will grow 9.98 percent this year and 4.51 percent in 2011,
the government said Nov. 18.  “Growth in Taiwan and other Asian economies attracts
overseas funds,” said  Henry Lin , a Taipei-based foreign-
exchange trader at Taiwan Shin Kong Commercial Bank. “The
central bank will continue to act to reduce gains.”  Taiwan Dollar  The Taiwan dollar strengthened to NT$30.355 versus the
greenback from NT$30.852 yesterday.  The euro pared losses on speculation European Central Bank
policy makers will today announce steps to stem the region’s
debt crisis. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the bank
will keep its benchmark interest rate at 1 percent.  “The markets are expecting the ECB to do something,” said
 Khoon Goh , head of market economics and strategy at ANZ National
Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “The euro seems to be supported, but
it needs some concrete action coming from the ECB and other
officials to say the right things.”  Speculation the debt crisis will spread to Portugal and
Spain grew after European authorities approved an 85 billion-
euro ($111.5 billion) aid package for Ireland on Nov. 28 when it
became the second euro-area nation after Greece to seek
financial help.  The European Financial Stability Facility may issue between
5 billion euros and 8 billion euros of bonds in January to fund
aid to Ireland, Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Regling  said
yesterday. The EFSF’s contribution to Ireland amounts to 17.7
billion euros, excluding bilateral loans from the U.K., Sweden
and Denmark, according to a Nov. 28 statement issued in
Brussels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Tokyo at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 