-- LeBron James Revisits Cleveland as Mere Mortal: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-12-02T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/lebron-james-visits-cleveland-as-mere-mortal-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Can I get a witness?  It’s no accident  Nike Inc.  chose that particular word,
 witness , to splash across T-shirts and billboards in the
worldwide marketing of  LeBron James , who returns to Cleveland
tonight for the first time since leaving as a free agent.  Witness has a religious overtone. Makes sense. We do, after
all, worship our sports stars. In keeping with that theme, let’s
use James’s return as the starting point for an awakening.  It’s time to think about what’s important, what matters.
And, no, a college football playoff and the need for expanded
replay in baseball don’t qualify.  A teenage James was dubbed by  Sports Illustrated  as The
Chosen One, or  Chosen 1 , which is emblazoned across his V-shaped
back. He became a dunking deity at an early age, answering to no
one, accountable to no one, fawned over by everyone. Almost
everyone, that is.  Four years ago, long before James became Judas to fans of
the National Basketball Association’s Cleveland Cavaliers, the
Rev. Peter Matthews stood before the congregation at the Olivet
Institutional Baptist Church in Cleveland and asked for
witnesses, too. He begged for believers, for converts to a new
way of thinking, one that questions why the side of a downtown
office building should be devoted to a billboard promoting you
know who.  Star Struck  Matthews used the pulpit to let loose on the  hero worship 
of rock stars and athletes, our high priests. These are the
unquestioned recipients of love, affection, admiration. Why,
Matthews wanted to know, is it not enough to sit back and enjoy
the abilities of an athlete like James. Why do we have to make
it more than it is, bear witness to it?  Hallelujah. Amen.  The people of  Cleveland  have run the gamut of emotions with
James, whose Miami Heat are doing more bickering and explaining
than winning in the early going. The believers feel betrayed.
You can bet they’ll boo. They loved, and now they loathe. The
question is this: Did any of us learn anything? Do we still
deify athletes?  It was worth a phone call to Matthews to find out if, four
years later, his sermon still needs to be heard.  “Even more so,” Matthews said. “We have to put things
into context, not only who we worship but at what altar we find
ourselves worshipping. We worship athletes because it’s easy, as
opposed to hard work and sacrifice.”  James, Jeter, Vick  The love affair goes back to Rome and the  Colosseum , which,
by the way, didn’t require personal seat licenses. Gladiators
provided an escape. Same as, say, James,  Derek Jeter  or  Michael Vick , who lures even Matthews’s wife and mother-in-law to the
television set.  “They’re not about  Michael Vick ’s throwing prowess, but
how nice he looks in those pants,” Matthews said. “The fact is
we pay athletes millions to provide a sense of fantasy. That’s
our fault as much as anybody else’s.”  Yes, it is. We, the flock. The followers and the fawners.
Can I get a witness?  Some in Miami actually cried the night James went on ESPN,
E for entertainment, and announced his decision. With reactions
like that -- all for a guy who can put a ball in a hoop -- who
can blame James for thinking that he could walk across Biscayne
Bay, let alone openly question a coach or insult an entire fan
base by ripping their hearts out on national TV.  You have to wonder how many people in Cleveland prior to
The Decision went to church and prayed for James, the kid from
nearby Akron, the hope and franchise savior, to stay with the
Cavaliers.  Mythic Stature  Matthews won’t be manning any pulpits on Sunday. If he
were, though, he said he’d probably focus on the parable of the
prodigal son.  The more Matthews spoke, the more I wished he could deliver
this sermon at center court tonight, maybe even during halftime.
Sure beats some guy twirling 15 Hula Hoops at once.  The prodigal son is the story of a young man who asks his
father for an early inheritance, which he wastes on an
extravagant lifestyle. The young man finds himself in dire
circumstances and, upon remembering his father, recognizes his
foolishness.  “He came to himself,” Matthews explained. “We, as a
culture, have to come to ourselves and place importance on that
which is really important.”  That message, by the way, isn’t aimed at James, who is
simply a byproduct of the fawning. It’s aimed at fans
everywhere, those who elevate a teenage basketball player,
quarterback or shortstop to mythic status, who revere without
question.  Watching Matthews deliver that message on center court
would be some halftime show, indeed.  Now that’d be something to  witness .  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  