-- Trichet Says ECB to Delay Emergency-Liquidity Withdrawal Amid Market Woes
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-12-02T17:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/ecb-delays-exit-as-trichet-buys-bonds-to-fight-acute-tensions.html
The European Central Bank delayed its
withdrawal of emergency liquidity measures and bought more
government bonds as President  Jean-Claude Trichet  pledged to
fight “acute” financial market tensions.  Under pressure from investors to lead the charge against
the spreading sovereign debt crisis, Trichet said the ECB will
keep offering banks as much cash as they want through the first
quarter over periods of up to three months at a fixed interest
rate. As he spoke, ECB staff embarked upon a new wave of
purchases, triggering a surge in Irish and Portuguese bonds.  “Uncertainty is elevated,” Trichet told reporters after
the ECB’s Governing Council left its  benchmark interest rate  at
1 percent today. “We have tensions and we have to take them
into account.”  While the ECB chose not to deploy new crisis-fighting
tools, Trichet managed to avoid sparking another market selloff
four days after traders gave a vote of no-confidence to a
bailout of  Ireland . He kept up pressure on governments to fight
the crisis by saying that “benign neglect” is not enough and
indicated they could expand Europe’s rescue fund amid concern
it’s not large enough to finance any bailout of Spain.  “The ECB is doing what it can up to its limits,” said
 Nick Kounis , chief euro-region economist at ABN Amro NV in
Amsterdam. “The ball is back in the court of governments to
take bold action.”  Yield Drop  The  yield  on Portuguese 10-year bonds dropped 50 basis
points to 6.13 percent and Irish yields fell 37 basis points to
8.76 percent. The Spanish 10-year yield declined 22 basis points
to 5.07 percent. The euro traded at $1.3228 at 5:41 p.m. in
London compared with $1.3152 before Trichet started talking.  The ECB will keep offering banks unlimited loans through
the first quarter over periods of seven days, one month and
three months. That marks a shift from last month, when Trichet
said that the ECB could start limiting access to its funds.  Signaling disagreement within the 22-member council,
Trichet said an “overwhelming majority” of officials backed
the ECB’s Securities Market Program and that a “consensus”
supported maintaining the status quo on providing liquidity.
Bond purchases will continue to be offset to keep the money
supply unchanged, in contrast to the Federal Reserve and the
Bank of England, he said.  “It’s not quantitative easing, we’re withdrawing all the
liquidity,” he said.  Some strategists said the ECB’s refusal to follow the Fed
and the Bank of England may soon end the rebound in bonds.  ‘Meaningful Size’  “The compression in spreads could prove temporary as
Trichet has stressed that the SMP is not QE,” said  Matteo Regesta , a fixed-income strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London.
“In the scenario where SMP eventually increases to a meaningful
size, weekly full sterilization of the stock will become a non-
trivial task. The only way to avoid such a jam is to keep the
program at a low scale.”  The ECB is facing calls to devise new crisis measures amid
concern that contagion from the region’s debt crisis will soon
engulf Spain. Trichet, who has said new European Union fiscal
rules are too weak, signaled that the ECB is already doing its
bit and the onus is now on governments.  “They are learning that benign neglect cannot be practiced
in this domain,” said Trichet in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. Asked whether the euro region’s 750 billion-euro
($992 billion) rescue package should be expanded, he said that
“this facility has to be commensurate with the difficulty of
the time.”  U-Turn  Trichet has changed tacked before. Earlier this year, he
initially resisted demands to temper the Greek budget crisis
only to tear up the ECB’s rule book by buying bonds in May in a
decision which also split the council.  The ECB may have been reluctant to go even further to
support Spain, Greece, Ireland and Portugal for fear of being
viewed as a bailout tool for politicians, damaging its
independence. Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , a leading
contender to replace Trichet at the bank’s helm next year,
opposed the decision to start buying bonds in May and has since
called for the program to be cancelled. He says it poses
“stability risks” and that there is no evidence it works.  Weber, who spoke at a separate event in Frankfurt today,
said he had nothing to add to Trichet’s remarks.  The ECB has already stepped up its activity, last week
buying the most bonds in two months. Overall purchases
nevertheless total 67 billion euros so far, well below the
amounts bought by the Bank of England and the Fed.  The ECB left unchanged its forecast for economic growth
next year at about 1.4 percent, while raising its estimate for
inflation to about 1.8 percent from 1.7 percent. Releasing its
2012 outlook for the first time, it predicted growth of 1.7
percent and inflation of 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net 
 Gabi Thesing  in Frankfurt at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  