-- Hedge Funds Win, U.S. Economy Loses in Volcker Rule, SkyBridge Chief Says
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2010-12-02T20:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/hedge-funds-win-u-s-economy-loses-in-volcker-rule-skybridge-chief-says.html
Hedge funds will benefit and the
broader economy will suffer if new curbs on trading by U.S.
banks are left unchanged, according to the head of SkyBridge
Capital LLC.  The Volcker rule, enacted this year to curtail proprietary
trading by U.S. banks, keeps rival traders out of his business,
said  Anthony Scaramucci , managing partner of SkyBridge Capital
LLC, who spoke today at the Bloomberg Hedge Funds 2010
 conference .  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co  and
Bank of America Corp. have cut jobs in proprietary trading or
shifted traders into other units to comply with the law.  A proposed rewrite by Republican lawmakers to allow banks
back in “would be bad for hedge funds and bad for my firm. It
would be better for society,” Scaramucci said. “Anytime you’re
taking speculators out of a market, you’re widening spreads.
When you widen spreads, you’re increasing the costs of
transactions for normal citizens. When you increase the costs
for normal citizens, it hurts the society.”  The Volcker rule, part of the financial industry overhaul
approved by Congress in July, was designed to limit trading by
bank holding companies for their own account. The law was passed
at the urging of former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  to
lessen the threat of another financial crisis.  “We have to embrace some level of regulation in our
businesses,” Scaramucci said. “We have to accept a speed limit
because there’s a lot of people through human nature who will
hurt themselves in order to get short-term performance over
another person. The American athlete did it with anabolic
steroids. The American banker did it with leverage.”  SkyBridge Capital, which invests in hedge funds, had $7.2
billion under management as of Oct. 1, according to spokesman
 Victor Oviedo . Scaramucci wrote a book this year called
“Goodbye Gordon Gekko - How To Find Your Fortune Without Losing
Your Soul,” published by John Wiley & Sons Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Donal Griffin  in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 