-- Warren Deputizes 50 State Attorneys General in Bid to Regulate U.S. Banks
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2010-12-02T19:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/elizabeth-warren-recruits-dodd-frank-enforcers-from-50-states.html
Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard
University law professor deputized by President Obama to police
consumer finance, is recruiting 50 state prosecutors to help.
She may even bankroll their work.  “The state attorneys general are natural partners for the
consumer agency,” Warren, 61, said in an interview. “There are
regulators in Washington that used to prevent state attorneys
general from protecting consumers.”  The attorneys general say they are now invited to the
nation’s capital and talk with Warren by telephone almost weekly
as she sets up the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. On
Nov. 30, Warren traveled to Fort Lauderdale, Florida, to plot
strategy at the prosecutors’ winter meeting.  Bernard Nash , a law partner at Dickstein Shapiro LLP in
Washington, said Warren’s alliance with state prosecutors will
strengthen both her hand and theirs. It will also antagonize
banks, who opposed the creation of the consumer bureau.  “There are going to be major consequences here,” said
Nash, who leads his firm’s state attorneys general practice.
“Instead of one enforcement arm, there are going to be 50 of
them.”  The Dodd-Frank financial overhaul that became law in July
revamped the relationship between federal agencies and state
enforcers, and Warren has seized on that change.  The law gives state attorneys general the authority to
enforce regulations written by the new bureau in court, and
allows the agency to take part in the case. A vote by a majority
of the states can force the bureau to consider adopting a new
regulation.  ‘Natural Partners’  Dodd-Frank also curbed the ability of national regulators,
primarily the  Office of the Comptroller of the Currency , to
block state consumer protection actions. That’s one reason large
banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co. opposed the bill.  “We’re not in favor of 50 states having enforcement,
because that means it will be really hard to service you the
customer,” JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said in
a conference call last December. “If we do something like that,
the customer will pay the price, not JPMorgan.”  Ed Mierzwinski , director of the consumer program at US
PIRG, said banks opposed the creation of the new agency because
they preferred the status quo.  “There are many regulations, like tax systems, that modern
companies deal with profitably across state lines,” said
Mierzwinski, whose Washington-based group supports the consumer
bureau. “The real reason industry does not want 50 strong state
laws is because they prefer one weak federal law.”  Common Cause  Enlisting state attorneys general is part of Warren’s
strategy of making common cause with people who believe in the
agency’s new mission and can support it for the long term, she
said.  “A long-term way to anchor the agency in consumer
protection -- as opposed to bank protection -- is to anchor it
to the state attorneys general,” said Prentiss Cox, a former
assistant attorney general in Minnesota and now a professor at
the University of Minnesota law school.  Roy Cooper , the attorney general of North Carolina, said
Warren has told them she wants states to help formulate new
policies around mortgages and credit cards, her two top
priorities. Last month, Cooper formed a group of attorneys
general from Washington, Indiana, Illinois and Iowa to work with
Warren on those issues and others.  ‘Portal of Complaints’  “We are the initial portal of complaints from consumers,
and we can react more quickly than a federal agency,” said
Cooper, a Democrat who heads the  National Association of
Attorneys General . “But it will be interesting to see how
nimble this new bureau will be.”  The state AGs may help the bureau spot national trends more
quickly, allowing faster enforcement, Cooper said.  “By leveraging our resources, we can make the whole
greater than the parts,” Warren said.  On financial issues, the OCC has long restrained state
efforts to regulate or enforce standards on nationally chartered
banks, said Chris Kukla, senior counsel for government affairs
at the  Center for Responsible Lending  in Durham, North Carolina.  “The attorneys general see a chance to finally have a seat
at the table in Washington,” Kukla said.  ‘Preemption’  A key goal of state attorneys general in forging a close
relationship with Warren is to influence regulations on
“preemption,” the legal doctrine that allows federal law to
trump state law when they conflict, Cooper said.  “One of the reasons we are getting in early is to have a
say on what these regulations say regarding preemption,” Cooper
said.  The American Bankers Association, which represents major
banks, has placed a high priority on maintaining federal
preemption for state actions, and downplays the role of state
attorneys general.  “Ultimately, it is the court’s decision on preemption,
before as after Dodd-Frank,” said  Kenneth Clayton , senior vice-
president and general counsel for card policy at the ABA.  During this week’s Florida meeting, Warren said state
attorneys general asked whether she could make federal money
available to fund state enforcement efforts. She was non-
committal: “It’s one of the ideas on the table, but it’s early
in the game,” Warren said.  The idea has precedent. For instance, the U.S. Department
of Health and Human Services gives states grants to finance
prosecutions of Medicaid fraud, said Greg Zoeller, the attorney
general of Indiana.  Although Zoeller lobbied the Indiana congressional
delegation to oppose the creation of the consumer bureau, he’s
now working with Warren on enforcement issues.  All the same, he worries that the state AGs could end up
being “contractors” for Washington.  “I fear that over the years, the bureau will dictate to
the independent attorneys general how we do our job,” Zoeller
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carter Dougherty  in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 