-- Ellison Seeks San Francisco Real Estate as Price for America's Cup in City
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2010-12-02T07:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/ellison-seeks-san-francisco-real-estate-as-price-for-america-s-cup-in-city.html
Larry Ellison ’s plan to stage the
America’s Cup in San Francisco has a price: the  Oracle Corp. 
chief executive officer wants control of waterfront real estate
rent-free in exchange for bringing the competition to the city.  The billionaire’s sailing group is offering to finance and
operate the race in San Francisco in 2013 for rights to piers
and parking lots near the Giants baseball stadium and  Google
Inc. ’s offices, according to a proposed  agreement  with the city.
The plan calls for an event authority chosen by Ellison’s
BMW/Oracle Racing to commit $150 million for land improvements
and raise $270 million in private funds to run the regatta.  The proposal, which would give the authority access to the
land for as long as 75 years, would help revitalize an area of
San Francisco that few investors have been willing to develop,
said Jennifer Matz, development director for Mayor  Gavin Newsom .
Critics including city Supervisor  Chris Daly  say it represents a
giveaway of public funds.  “This is a boondoggle,” Daly, who represents the South of
Market area, which includes the 35 acres (14 hectares)  proposed 
in the deal, said in an interview. “We’re trying to close a
$400 million deficit next year and cutting programs for San
Franciscans, and we’re giving money away to one of the richest
men in the world.”  San Francisco has struggled to find investors willing to
pay up front for improvements to city-owned piers and
warehouses, some more than a century old. More than $2 billion
is needed just to make the structures safe and compliant with
modern building codes, according to the Port of San Francisco.  Rehabilitating Piers  “We don’t see this as a giveaway,” Matz said in an
interview. “There’s no capital plan for rehabilitating the
piers and limited upside to Band-Aid repairs.”  BMW/Oracle Racing won the 159-year-old trophy in February.
As defender of the Cup, the team and its affiliated  Golden Gate
Yacht Club  in San Francisco choose the site of the next race.
The 66-year-old Ellison and Newsom agreed to draft a plan for
San Francisco to host the competition after Ellison’s syndicate
defeated the Alinghi team in Valencia, Spain, said Kyri
McClellan, event project manager.  Ellison is the third-richest American, worth $27 billion,
according to Forbes magazine’s annual ranking. Redwood City,
California-based Oracle is the second-largest maker of business
application software, behind Walldorf, Germany-based SAP AG.  Stephanie Martin, communications director for the America’s
Cup, said she couldn’t answer questions about the San Francisco
plan. Tom Ehman, spokesman for the Golden Gate Yacht Club, a
named party in the plan, didn’t return calls and messages
seeking comment.  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman,
didn’t respond to a request for comment on how the event may
benefit the company.  Wells Fargo  A civic organizing committee that includes  John Stumpf ,
chairman of San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co. ;  Tom Perkins ,
partner in Menlo Park, California-based venture firm  Kleiner
Perkins Caufield & Byers ; and  Ken McNeely , president of AT&T
California, is a named party in the agreement and would raise
$32 million to defray city costs, McClellan said.  Ellison is used to getting his way in San Francisco and
would be a tough antagonist if the Cup deal soured, said  Bruce Richardson , a former industry consultant. The company gets
permits and extra police services every year to close streets
around the Moscone convention center for its annual conference.  “He takes over blocks of prime real estate and doesn’t
care,” said Richardson, now chief strategy officer for
Alpharetta, Georgia-based Infor Global Solutions Inc., which
competes with Oracle. “There are no negative ramifications for
him. For the last 10 years, he’s felt pretty infallible.”  ‘Single-Minded’  Ellison is “single-minded” in his pursuits, Richardson
said. Oracle spent 18 months completing a hostile takeover of
PeopleSoft Inc., and last month the company won a $1.3 billion
jury verdict against rival SAP, the biggest ever for copyright
infringement. Ellison has publicly ridiculed the board of
 Hewlett-Packard Co. , hiring its deposed CEO  Mark Hurd  while
slighting  Leo Apotheker , Hurd’s replacement.  The Italian government may also bid to host the Cup with
 Club Nautico di Roma , the official challenger to the Golden Gate
Yacht Club, McClellan said. The Italian club’s chairman, Claudio
Gorelli, couldn’t be reached for comment.  The competition dates to 1851, when a group of New York
businessmen financed the schooner America in races against
British yachts around the Isle of Wight. The U.S. syndicate won,
and the silver trophy it took home now bears the name of the
victorious boat. The group donated the Cup to the New York Yacht
Club in 1887 and set rules for future  contests , according to the
Cup website.  Only six clubs have won the trophy. San Francisco would be
the third U.S. host, after San Diego and Newport, Rhode Island.  Yacht Berths  The San Francisco  port properties  in the Cup plan would be
used for spectator seating, public plazas, exhibits, sponsor
pavilions and yacht berths. Pre-regatta races would begin as
soon as next year, with challenger matches and final contests to
decide the 34th Cup winner set for mid-2013.  An alternate plan, not specified in the agreement and using
piers near Fisherman’s Wharf, may reduce repair costs to $55
million from $150 million, Matz said. The city also is trying to
shift as much as $36 million in dredging costs to the event
authority in a  final document , according to McClellan.  The city board of supervisors is scheduled to vote on a
binding agreement during its Dec. 14 meeting.  Economic Benefit  The economic benefit of staging  the Cup  in San Francisco
would be about $1.2 billion over two years of practice and
competition races, including housing expenses for crew members
and their families, according to a Nov. 18 report by  Harvey Rose , the city’s budget analyst.  Direct costs to the city include $86 million in forgone
lease payments and taxes from the properties given rent-free to
the event authority, the report said. The city would shoulder
$42 million more for extra police and transit and relocating
port tenants displaced by Cup events for a total net cost of
$128 million.  Businesses, not the city treasury, would be the main
beneficiaries of the Cup coming to San Francisco, Rose said.  “At the same time the city would incur these costs, it is
projecting significant shortfalls and reductions to departmental
budgets,” said Rose, San Francisco’s budget analyst since 1971.
“We think it’s our job to point that out.”  Daly, whose term ends Jan. 8, said the proposed deal
violates California law because it doesn’t include an
environmental impact report required by the state for such a
project. Daly said he may sue to stop it after leaving office.  Environmental Review  The agreement specifies full  environmental review  for Cup
events and post-Cup building projects, and both the city and the
event authority can walk away under certain escape clauses in
the plan, McClellan said.  Developments that could be built on the Cup sites after the
races end include a 250-unit condominium building, according to
Rose’s report. Retail and food facilities built for the
competition probably would be subleased. All revenue would go to
the authority named by Ellison’s team.  “Oracle is driving a hard bargain because they have all
the chips,” said Jim Chappell, former director of San Francisco
Planning & Urban Research, a civic affairs group that focuses on
real estate. “The city wouldn’t take the bet if it had the
ability to develop by itself.”  Waterfront Land  Private funding for waterfront real estate and the economic
boost are driving the proposal, said  David Chiu , a city
supervisor.  Lend Lease Corp . of Sydney spent five years
attempting to build a cruise terminal, offices and shops on
Piers 30-32, the proposed main Cup venue, before abandoning the
site, he said. Shorenstein Properties LLC of San Francisco also
tried and ultimately walked away.  “We’ve all been waiting and it hasn’t happened,” Chiu
said. “This is not a deal we have to do, but we would otherwise
not receive financing to rebuild our crumbling piers.”  Ellison’s proposal to improve the piers doesn’t make sense
as a pure real estate play, and the Oracle boss likely is
motivated in part by staging a memorable event, said Jesse
Blout, principal at San Francisco-based Strada Investment Group
LLC and the city’s former economic development director.  The total costs for improving Piers 30-32 could exceed $80
million, or $160 a square foot, before profit, Blout said.
That’s more than the $140 a square foot that software provider
Salesforce.com Inc. paid last month for 14 acres of empty land
with no repair costs, no entitlement risk and permission to
build 2 million square feet of offices, he said.  ‘Good Deal’  “If Ellison is willing to make the investment knowing he
may not get all of his money back, that’s a good deal for the
city,” Blout said.  The payout is worldwide publicity for Oracle in an
exclusive branding arrangement, not revenue from property,
according to Richardson.  “The  Oracle  logo would be everywhere and the whole world
would be watching a tremendous event,” he said.  The head of the civic organizing committee said he was
aware of Ellison’s litigious past and insisted on shielding his
members in the agreement, even as he acknowledged the common
goal of staging a successful event.  “I told the Ellison group that we’re partners, it’s all
hands on deck, but none of us can be held liable for failure to
meet our obligations,” said  Mark Buell , chairman of the Golden
Gate National Parks Conservancy. “The most important person I
had at my table was a lawyer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Levy  in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  