-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance Second Day on ECB; Wimm-Bill-Dann Gains
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2010-12-02T12:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/emerging-market-stocks-set-for-best-two-day-gain-since-june-on-u-s-data.html
Emerging-market stocks gained for a
second day as speculation the European Central Bank will act to
prevent the region’s debt crisis from spreading helped restore
confidence in the global recovery.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 1.2 percent to
1,110.63 as of 11:33 a.m. in London, poised for its best two-day
rally since June. The  Micex Index  climbed 1.2 percent after
PepsiCo Inc., the world’s largest snack-food maker, agreed to
buy a controlling stake in Russia’s Wimm-Bill-Dann Dairy & Juice
Co. Poland’s WIG20 Index rose 0.9 percent and China’s after
 Shanghai Composite Index  climbed 0.7 percent.  “Market sentiment has turned to bullish from bearish
because of the positive economic data,” said  Francis Lun ,
general manager at Fulbright Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“People aren’t worrying about recession now. Market confidence
is likely to continue for the rest of the year.”  Investors are anticipating that ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  will delay the withdrawal of unlimited cash to banks and
step up bond purchases after signaling this week measures may be
needed to stem the region’s debt crisis. The bank’s Governing
Council will meet today. Europe’s manufacturing industries
expanded at the fastest pace in four months in November, led by
Germany, the region’s largest economy.  Mol Nyrt ., Hungary’s largest refiner, jumped 2.5 percent,
helping to push the BUX Index up 1 percent.  KGHM Polska Miedz
SA , Poland’s only copper miner, rose 2.1 after oil traded near a
three-week high and metal prices rallied.  ‘Shore Up’  “The markets have basically rallied across the board,
everything moving in tandem, whether good or bad,”  Nigel Rendell , senior emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital, said
by phone from London. “People are hoping that the ECB is going
to shore up the peripheral countries.”  Wimm-Bill-Dann  soared by as much as 40 percent in Moscow
trading after PepsiCo said it will acquire 66 percent of
Russia’s juice and dairy group for $3.8 billion. Cnooc Ltd.,
China’s biggest offshore oil producer, rose the most since Nov.
18 in Hong Kong trading after crude traded for as much as $87.10
a barrel.  PetroChina Co.  added 2.3 percent, poised for the
highest close since Nov. 15.  Copper in rose in London to the highest level in almost
three weeks as inventories shrank the most since September. Tin,
lead, nickel and zinc all rose on the London Metal Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net 
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  