-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance Second Day on ECB; Wimm-Bill-Dann Gains
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2010-12-02T15:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/emerging-market-stocks-advance-second-day-on-ecb-wimm-bill-dann-gains.html
Emerging-market stocks gained for a
second day as the European Central Bank delayed its withdrawal
of emergency liquidity measures to prevent the region’s debt
crisis from spreading.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 1.6 percent to
1,114.58 as of 10:26 a.m. in New York, poised for its best two-
day rally since June. Russia’s  Micex Index  climbed 1.5 percent
after PepsiCo Inc. agreed to buy a controlling stake in Moscow-
based Wimm-Bill-Dann Dairy & Juice Co. Poland’s WIG20 Index rose
1 percent, China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  climbed 0.7 percent
and Brazil’s  Bovespa  gained 0.8 percent.  The Frankfurt-based ECB will offer banks unlimited loans
through the first quarter over periods of seven days, one month
and three months, President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told reporters.
Europe’s manufacturing industries expanded at the fastest pace
in four months in November, led by Germany, the region’s largest
economy.  “Market sentiment has turned to bullish from bearish
because of the positive economic data,” said Francis Lun,
general manager at Fulbright Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“People aren’t worrying about recession now. Market confidence
is likely to continue for the rest of the year.”  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
government bonds over U.S. Treasuries narrowed 6 basis points to
250, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Index.  Mol Nyrt ., Hungary’s largest refiner, jumped 1.5 percent,
helping to push the BUX Index up 0.6 percent.  KGHM Polska Miedz
SA , Poland’s only copper miner, rose 1.5 percent after oil
traded near a three-week high and metal prices rallied.  Brazil Gains  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  gained 1.5 percent after Brazil’s
lower house of Congress approved oil regulations reducing
competition against the state oil producer.  Fibria Celulose SA ,
the world’s largest pulp producer, rose 1.4 percent as
commodities prices climbed.  “The markets have basically rallied across the board,
everything moving in tandem, whether good or bad,”  Nigel Rendell , senior emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital, said
by phone from London.  Wimm-Bill-Dann  soared by as much as 74 percent in Moscow
trading after PepsiCo said it will acquire 66 percent of
Russia’s juice and dairy group for $3.8 billion. Cnooc Ltd.,
China’s biggest offshore oil producer, rose the most since Nov.
18 in Hong Kong trading after crude traded for as much as $87.10
a barrel.  PetroChina Co.  added 1.2 percent.  Copper rose in London to the highest level in almost three
weeks as inventories shrank the most since September. Tin, lead,
nickel and zinc all rose on the London Metal Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  