-- Emissions Performance Standards Needed to Meet U.K. Carbon Goals, MPs Say
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2010-12-02T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/emissions-standards-needed-to-meet-u-k-carbon-targets-mps-say.html
Emissions performance standards
limiting the amount of carbon dioxide produced by U.K. power
stations are needed to meet climate change targets, according to
an  Energy and Climate Change Committee  report released today.  Britain’s existing energy policy is “grossly inadequate”
and will not boost investment in low carbon projects like
offshore wind farms and nuclear reactors, the committee said. An
emissions standard would provide certainty to investors and help
lower the cost of investing in green technologies, they said.  “A change in the law to require cleaner power stations is
needed to ensure the U.K. doesn’t get left behind with an
antiquated, expensive and highly polluting energy system,”
committee chairman Tim Yeo said in a statement. “Meeting our
climate change targets will become a lot more expensive in
future if we don’t act to decarbonize our electricity market.”  The U.K. has pledged to get 15 percent of its energy from
renewable sources by 2020 and reduce carbon-dioxide emissions by
80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. Britain’s government, led
by Prime Minister David Cameron, plans to announce changes to
energy regulation this month as it seeks to accelerate
investment in low-carbon energy projects to reduce emissions.  The coalition has also promised to introduce emissions
performance standards to ensure that no new coal-fired power
plants are built without carbon-capture-and-storage equipment.
Such a standard has the potential to speed up emissions
reductions and stop carbon-intensive plants from being built,
the committee said. It could also boost research on carbon
capture and storage technologies, they said.  U.K. coal-fired power plants emit around 915 grams of
carbon dioxide per kilowatt hour of electricity produced,
according to the committee. Gas-fired power plants average about
405 grams per kilowatt hour, while nuclear reactors can release
as little as 7 grams.  The climate change committee has argued for reducing the
carbon intensity of the power sector to less than 70 grams of
carbon dioxide per kilowatt hour of electricity produced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 