-- English Voter Says Early World Cup Knockout Was Because of Media Reports
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-12-03T12:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/england-received-only-two-votes-out-of-22-in-world-cup-contest-fifa-says.html
England’s representative on
soccer’s governing body said the country’s elimination in
the first round of voting yesterday for the host of the 2018
World Cup may have been down to a backlash against the U.K.
media.  England received just two votes from FIFA’s 22-member
executive committee, including that of Englishman  Geoff Thompson . Russia, the eventual winner, got nine in the first
round, five more than the joint bid of Netherlands/Belgium. The
joint effort from Spain/Portugal had seven.  The award of the world’s most watched sporting event was
marred by FIFA’s suspension of two executive members last month
after the Sunday Times published a story alleging Nigerian  Amos Adamu  and Tahiti’s Reynald Temarii had offered to sell their
votes. Earlier this week, the British Broadcasting Corp. made
fresh corruption allegations against voters.  “Regrettably it’s outside sources that don’t help,”
Thompson said in an interview after the announcement at the
Messe Zurich convention center.  When asked if he meant the U.K. media had damaged the
country’s chances, he added: “Certainly in the minds of certain
colleagues yes.”  While a FIFA probe found enough evidence to suspend Adamu
and Temarii, it said issues raised by the BBC program, which
included allegations of bribery, were investigated by Swiss
authorities and were “definitely closed.”  BBC Defense  BBC Executive Editor Clive Edwards told Radio 4’s Today
program this week that the broadcast was justified to report the
allegations because “it is in everyone’s interest that there
should be a fair process.”  The English bid’s chief executive officer  Andy Anson  today
told reporters that FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  reminded voters
of the “evil of the media” minutes before they cast their
ballots.  Russia reached the majority needed to host the tournament
in the second ballot by receiving 13 votes, with Spain/Portugal
getting seven and the Netherlands/Belgium receiving two. Qatar
won the 2022 event, ahead of the U.S., South Korea, Japan and
Australia.  “England has full facilities and they could hold the World
Cup anytime,”  Junji Ogura , the Japanese representative on the
FIFA board, told reporters yesterday. “I think England’s media
reporting affected FIFA executive committee members.”  ‘Stupid and Naive’  Marios Lefkaritis , a voter from Cyprus, said the media had
a big hand in England’s failure.  “In the beginning I thought not, but after the experience
I got from other members yesterday, then I have to say
definitely yes,” he said in an interview today. “If the
(England bid team) think they did not, then they are stupid and
naive.”  England, which was also knocked out in the first round in
the bidding for the 2006 World Cup, struggled to recover from
several missteps since announcing its intention to go for the
tournament about two years ago.  Last November it changed its board after criticism that it
was too large. In May, Football Association Chairman  David Triesman , who also chaired the bid, quit after making
allegations of a pact between Qatar and Spain/Portugal. The most
recent problems centered around the media reports, which led to
FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  questioning the news-gathering
approach of the British press.  Last-Minute Support  Prime Minister  David Cameron , Prince William and  David Beckham  went to Zurich this week to support the bid. They
conducted several meetings with FIFA officials late into the
night, leading to renewed optimism the country could bring the
tournament back to England after a 44-year wait.  “We did everything we thought we could,” England bid CEO
 Andy Anson  said in an interview.  Lefkaritis said voters weren’t swayed by the dignitaries
brought in by bidders.  “They don’t wait until the last minute to make their
decisions,” he said. “I don’t think there’s even one who comes
to Zurich two days before and waits for the Emir, Price William
and (former U.S. President) Clinton to change his mind.”  Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  scrapped a plan to
attend the vote, saying he didn’t want to add “external
pressure” on voters rattled by the furor created by the media
allegations.  “It was like a conclave for the new Pope,” Belgian member
 Michel D’Hooghe  said of the vote. “It was intense.”  High Scores  England and the U.S., which was eliminated in a final-round
run-off with Qatar, were given high scores by technical and
economic reports made for FIFA. Russia had the lowest marks of
the 2018 contenders and Qatar, which needs to build 12 stadiums
and pledged to spend $50 billion to ready itself for the
tournament, was the only bidder given a “high risk” rating.
Qatar, with a population of 1.7 million, will be the smallest
and hottest country ever to host the tournament that started in
1930.  “Until we survey all the people and find out what was
their motivation it’s hard to say whether it’s politics or the
reports,” said  Chuck Blazer , the U.S. voter on the FIFA panel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Zurich at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  