-- England's Strauss Steels His Team for `Tough' Test as Ashes Series Resumes
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-12-02T14:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/england-s-strauss-steels-his-team-for-tough-test-as-ashes-series-resumes.html
England captain  Andrew Strauss  told
his team to expect a “very tough” challenge as it goes into
the second Ashes cricket Test against Australia in Adelaide
today.  The teams enter the match with the best-of-five contest
having turned into a four-game shootout after England rallied
from 221 runs behind to draw the series opener in Brisbane,
where Australia had won its previous six Tests.  “We haven’t achieved anything in this series yet,”
Strauss told reporters. “If we to want to achieve something
then we’ve got to steel ourselves for another very tough five
days of cricket.”  Four years ago, Australia took a stranglehold on the series
after England’s final-day collapse at the Adelaide Oval led to a
six-wicket victory for the home team that put it 2-0 up. The
touring side never recovered and  Ricky Ponting ’s men went on to
sweep the series 5-0.  In 2006, under  Andrew Flintoff ’s captaincy, England entered
the last day at 59-1, with a lead of 97 and a chance to push for
the victory. Flintoff’s team slumped to be all out for 129.  While Strauss said he’s not dwelling on the past, Australia
captain Ponting wants his team to draw from the 2006 experience
and its record of having won seven of its past 10 matches in the
so-called City of Churches.  ‘Memories’  “We’ve got a lot of great memories here,” Ponting said.
“We’ve only lost one in about the last 10 Test matches that
we’ve played here in Adelaide. The last Ashes series here, the
Test match win here for me was probably the best Test win that
I’ve been involved in.”  With England holding the Ashes after last year’s 2-1 series
win in the U.K., Australia must win more games than the touring
team to reclaim the trophy. England last won the Ashes on
Australian soil 24 years ago, when  Mike Gatting ’s squad secured
a 2-1 triumph.  After neither team took 20 wickets in Brisbane, another
draw is the most likely result, according to bookmaker Ladbrokes
Plc. The Adelaide Oval has the highest ratio of runs per wicket
of any of Australia’s major Test venues.  Australia will make at least one personnel change after
 Mitchell Johnson , the International Cricket Council’s Player of
the Year in 2009, was dropped after taking 0-170 at the Gabba,
where he also dropped a catch and failed to score a run.  Dropped First Time  It’s the first time since making his debut against Sri
Lanka in November 2007 that left-hander Johnson, 29, has been
left out of the Test team.  Australian selectors called up pacemen Doug Bollinger and
Ryan Harris into the squad immediately after the series opener,
when England amassed a record 517-1 declared in its second
innings to secure the draw. They’ll vie with  Ben Hilfenhaus  and
 Peter Siddle  for the three fast-bowling spots in Adelaide.  “We have to pick the 11 players who are going to win us
Test matches,” Ponting said. “The selections bowling-wise all
come down to who we think are the best five bowlers who are
going to give us the best chance of taking 20 wickets.”  England will name its team before the game with selectors
“generally happy with the majority of the performances at
Brisbane,” Strauss said. Uncertainty about the Australian
lineup may work to his team’s advantage, he added.  “My experience in playing international cricket is that
lack of stability is not a good thing, when you’re not sure what
your best 11 is,” Strauss said. “That means people are
generally a bit concerned about their place in the side. In that
sense, that’s a good thing for us.”  AUSTRALIA SQUAD: Ricky Ponting (captain), Michael Clarke,
 Simon Katich ,  Shane Watson ,  Mike Hussey , Marcus North, Brad
Haddin, Xavier Doherty, Peter Siddle, Ryan Harris, Ben
Hilfenhaus, Doug Bollinger.  ENGLAND SQUAD: Andrew Strauss (captain), Alastair Cook,
Jonathan Trott, Kevin Pietersen, Paul Collingwood, Ian Bell,
Matt Prior, Stuart Broad, Graeme Swann, James Anderson, Steve
Finn, Tim Bresnan, Steve Davies, Eoin Morgan,  Monty Panesar ,
Chris Tremlett.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Adelaide through the London newsroom at 
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  