-- Hermes Family Said to Gather to Discuss Takeover Defenses as LVMH Prowls
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2010-12-03T17:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/hermes-family-said-to-meet-tomorrow-to-discuss-defense-options.html
Hermes International SCA’s  family
shareholders meet today and may discuss ways they can sell stock
without rival  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA  gaining
control, according to two people familiar with the plans.  The family members, who own 73.4 percent of the Paris-based
luxury-goods maker, may want flexibility to sell shares without
the worry that LVMH might be buying them, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified as the talks are private.  LVMH, the world’s largest luxury-goods maker, said in
October it would consider buying more Hermes shares after
building a 17.1 percent stake using equity swaps. LVMH has
said it doesn’t intend to seek a board seat or control of its
rival. Hermes hired BNP Paribas SA and Bank of America Corp.
as advisers last month to help fend off a possible LVMH
takeover bid.  “The whole action is, from an institutional investor
point of view, a bit annoying,” said  Scilla Huang Sun , head
of equities at Swiss & Global Asset Management in Zurich,
who oversees about 4 billion Swiss francs ($4.1 billion),
including LVMH and Hermes shares. “Hermes is a great brand and
well-managed business, but the free float is obviously lower
and for the next couple of months the stock price will
remain volatile.”  Stock Performance  Hermes  fell 9.3 percent, or 15.50 euros, to 150.55 euros
today in Paris trading. The stock has surged 61 percent this
year, boosting the company’s market value to 15.9 billion euros
($21.3 billion). LVMH  stock  declined 0.4 percent to 121.70
euros, paring its gain this year to 55 percent and valuing the
company at 59.6 billion euros.  As an SCA, or Societe en Commandite par Actions, Hermes has
a structure that allows members of its founding family to keep
control of decision-making even if they become minority
shareholders. The fact that the family may feel the need to
devise a new structure means “the SCA doesn’t secure their
capital,”  Colette Neuville , president of minority shareholder
activist group Adam, said yesterday in an interview.  Options for family members include placing their stock in a
new unlisted holding company, Le Journal du Dimanche reported
Nov. 28. Members of the founding families will be asked to give
up some of their rights to sell shares, the newspaper said.  Family’s Options  The formation of a holding company or an agreement between
the family shareholders to organize control of the share capital
would make “a very significant part” of Hermes’s stock
inaccessible, Neuville wrote in a Dec. 1 letter to France’s
market regulator obtained by Bloomberg News.  A formal alignment of the relatives’ shares means they
would be acting in concert under the rules of French stock
market regulator  Autorite des Marches Financiers , obliging them
to make a bid for the rest of the stock, according to Neuville.  Lawyers advising Hermes on the possible structures
available for the family to barricade their stake disputed
Neuville’s reading of the rules, she said. The lawyers took the
view that Hermes’s SCA status means the family already controls
the company and that any new structure to emerge from today’s
meeting would warrant a simple “reclassification” to the AMF
of their existing position, she said.  Hermes lawyer  Olivier Diaz  referred calls by Bloomberg News
to a company spokeswoman.  Christel Denef , a spokeswoman for
Hermes, said the company has no immediate comment.  Bertrand Puech, chairman of Emile Hermes SARL, which
represents the family shareholders, has said all 73 adult
descendents of Hermes’s founder have voted unanimously to
keep control.  LVMH can’t bid for all of Hermes until at least April 23,
six months after it said it doesn’t intend to seek a board seat
or control of the 173-year-old company, according to French
stock market rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 