-- Eskom Says Timing of Moody's Decision to Raise Bonds Outlook is `Fitting'
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-12-02T08:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/eskom-says-timing-of-moody-s-outlook-review-fitting-update1-.html
Eskom Holdings Ltd., South Africa’s
state-owned power utility, said the timing of a decision by
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. to raise the outlook on its bonds
was “fitting” in light of the government’s decision to double
loan guarantees.  Moody’s said in an e-mailed statement yesterday that it was
changing the outlook on Eskom’s Baa2-rated senior unsecured
bonds to “stable” from “negative” to reflect “a number of
measures” taken over the past few months to strengthen the
company.  “Eskom views this rating amendment favorably and views it
as a further enabler to its commitment to delivering the much-
needed capacity whilst maintaining the financial sustainability
of the company,” the Johannesburg-based utility said in a e-
mailed statement today.  The yield on Eskom’s benchmark 7.5 percent bond due
September 2033 fell almost 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 9 percent at 10:13 a.m. in Johannesburg, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Eskom, which supplies about 95 percent of South Africa’s
electricity, is spending about 485 billion rand ($70 billion) to
prevent a repeat of five days of blackouts that brought some of
the country’s biggest gold and platinum mines to a standstill in
January 2008.  Double Guarantees  On Oct. 28, the government said it will almost double loan
guarantees for Eskom to 350 billion rand to fund expansion, and
on Nov. 11 the Cabinet said it may inject a further 20 billion
into the company over the three fiscal years through April 2014.  “We have had strong support from the government,” Chief
Executive Officer Brian Dames said in a Nov. 29 interview in
Cape Town. “We have had great clarity. There is nothing that
impacts on the certainty of our expansion program.”  Eskom’s financial prospects also improved after regulators
allowed it to raise tariffs 25 percent this year and 26 percent
in each of the following two years. On Nov. 23, the utility said
net income jumped to 9.5 billion rand in the six months through
September, from 1.1 billion a year earlier, as sales grew 33
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 