-- 
Essar Kenya Sees More Data Revenue, Market Share Amid Price Cuts

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-03-08T09:57:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/essar-telecom-kenya-equity-bank-introduce-mobile-money-transfer-service.html
Essar Communications Holdings Ltd.’s
Kenyan unit, the fourth-biggest cellphone operator in the
country, plans to boost its share of revenue from data even as
it forecasts prices for mobile Internet services will decline.  Essar Telecom Kenya Ltd.  expects data to contribute 12
percent of overall sales within two years, compared with 8
percent now, outgoing Country Manager  Atul Chaturvedi  said in an
e-mailed response to questions on March 4.  “Data pricing is likely to reduce, and this in turn will
see an increase in penetration and usage,” Balaji Srinivasan, head of
communication at Essar, said today in a separate e-mail. “The
majority of our subscribers browse from their handsets and this
number has been steadily increasing on a monthly basis. We are
also seeing more and more people joining the network.”  Essar, which trades under the yu brand, competes with  Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) ,  Kenya ’s largest mobile operator; Airtel Kenya
Ltd., the domestic unit of Delhi-based  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) ; and
Telkom Kenya Ltd., a division of  France Telecom SA. (FTE)  All of yu’s
rivals have licenses to operate a third-generation, or 3G,
telecommunications network, while only Safaricom has actually
built one so far.  3G, or third-generation networks, enable faster data
transmission and allow mobile-phone users to download music and
video to their handsets. Yu doesn’t have a license to operate a
3G network yet.  “We are on 2.5G, which is good enough for browsing, for
mailing,” Chaturvedi said. “3G investment will need to be loaded
onto the customer.”  ‘Enough’ Handsets  About 12 percent of mobile-phone handsets in Kenya are 3G
enabled and yu will begin providing 3G data services when there
are “enough” handsets in the country, he said.  Yu, which began operations in November 2008, presently has
a network covering 85 percent of the population with 1.63
million customers as of Dec. 31, Chaturvedi said. In December,
the company introduced a money-transfer service known as YuCash,
which currently has 420,000 users, Chaturvedi said.  The company is in talks with various unidentified Kenyan
banks to enable users of the services to be able to conduct
transactions using 1,500 automated teller machines across the
nation by the end of this month, he said.  Chaturvedi said last week announced he will be replaced
later this year by Madhur Taneja, the current chief executive
officer of  Warid Telecom  in neighboring  Uganda .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  