-- Europe Headed for Recession as Bailouts Falter, FX Concept's Taylor Says
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-12-02T18:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/europe-headed-for-recession-as-bailouts-falter-fx-concept-s-taylor-says.html
Europe will sink into recession next
year as bailout packages fail to solve the region’s sovereign
debt crisis, according to the manager of the world’s largest
foreign exchange hedge fund.  “We have a lot of time to go” before the situation in
Europe is resolved, said  John Taylor  of FX Concepts LLC,
speaking at the Hedge Funds New York Conference hosted by
 Bloomberg Link . “That means the market is going to be twitching
because that’s a heck of a lot of GDP,” he said, referring to
gross domestic product.  Ireland became the second euro country to seek a rescue
last month as the cost of saving its banks threatened a rerun of
the Greek debt crisis that destabilized the currency. European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled today that
policy makers will delay their withdrawal of stimulus measures
and said record-low interest rates are “appropriate.”  During a panel discussion at the conference, Taylor also
predicted a “smaller euro,” with some weaker countries spun
off. Eventually, economically stronger members “have to say
‘enough, you guys, get out of the euro,’” he said.  The ECB today left unchanged its forecast for economic
growth next year at about 1.4 percent, while raising its
estimate for inflation to about 1.8 percent from 1.7 percent.
Releasing its 2012 outlook for the first time, it predicted
growth of 1.7 percent.  The dollar depreciated 0.5 percent to $1.3199 per euro at
1:16 p.m. in New York, from $1.3139 yesterday.  ‘Too Big’  Ireland’s banking system “simply became too big” for the
country to handle alone, Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said in
a speech yesterday. Ireland’s banks will receive as much as 35
billion euros of additional capital in an International Monetary
Fund and European Union bailout, after deposits fled and as
lenders remain locked out of credit markets.  “We’re dealing with fundamental solvency issues, which are
vastly exacerbated by the fact that you have a single
currency,” said  Dean Curnutt , chief executive officer of New
York-based Macro Risk Advisors LLC, who appeared on the same
panel. “We learned earlier this year there are vast spillover
effects. I don’t think you can argue Europe is a contained
animal.”  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
gauge of corporate credit risk in the U.S., climbed 9.6 basis
points in seven days through Nov. 30, and that same day the
benchmark index for U.S. stock  options  rose to a two-month high
amid concern that European governments won’t contain the
region’s debt crisis.  Spending Versus Saving  The  VIX , as the  Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index  is known, has rebounded 18 percent since falling to a six-
month low Nov. 19. The index measures the cost of using options
as insurance against declines in the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index , which has risen 0.5 percent during the same period.  “The U.S. is trying to spend its way out of trouble, and
you’ve got Europe that’s trying to save its way out of
trouble,” said  Paul Britton , chief executive officer of New
York-based Capstone Holdings Group LLC. “There are two opposing
camps, and someone’s going to be wrong.”  Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in the
price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves or
bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall. Calls
give the right to buy a security for a certain amount, the
strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right to sell.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net 
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 