-- Euro Fluctuates; Trichet Refrains From Announcing More Easing
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-12-02T14:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/euro-near-two-month-low-against-dollar-before-ecb-rates-press-conference.html
The euro fluctuated versus the dollar
after European Central Bank  Jean-Claude Trichet  refrained from
announcing new measures to calm financial markets.  Europe’s common currency depreciated against the Swiss
franc as Trichet said the central bank will keep mopping up
extra liquidity from its bond purchases, disappointing some
traders who bet on so-called quantitative easing. Trichet,
speaking at a press conference in Frankfurt, signaled policy
makers will continue emergency stimulus measures “with full
allotment as along as needed, and at least until April 12.”  “The market was too aggressive and optimistic in its
expectations,” said  Stephan Maier , a foreign-exchange
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Milan. “The bond buying will
continue to be sterilized. That has weighed on the market.”  The euro was little changed at $1.3146 at 2:41 p.m. in
London. It slid as much as 0.6 percent after Trichet began
speaking and climbed as much as 0.6 percent before his remarks.
The currency reached $1.2969 two days ago, the weakest since
Sept. 15. The euro fell 0.3 percent to 1.3129 per Swiss franc.
The dollar was at 84.23 yen, from 84.19 yesterday.  Europe’s common currency rose earlier as Spain sold 2.5
billion euros ($3.3 billion) of notes due October 2013, with
investors bidding for 2.27 times the securities on offer. That
surpassed the bid-to-cover ratio of 2.16 at a similar sale in
October, renewing confidence that so-called peripheral nations
could sell debt in the wake of Ireland’s bailout.  Debt Crisis  The euro has dropped 3.7 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
a basket of 10 developed-country currencies, amid concern that
the region’s debt crisis would spread. The ECB’s decision to
keep the refinancing rate at 1 percent was predicted by all 52
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Trichet said an “overwhelming majority” of the 22-member
council had backed the bond program and that its purchases would
continue to be sterilized, in contrast to the Federal Reserve
and the Bank of England. “It’s not quantitative easing, we’re
withdrawing all the liquidity,” he said.  “The market was pricing in a good chance that the ECB
would take a firm stance to help the troubled states,” said
 Kathleen Brooks , research director at Gain Capital Group LLC in
London. “They have refrained from that and the markets don’t
like it. Although they will extend their liquidity facilities at
least until the second quarter, what about after that?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  