-- Ex-Tyco CEO Kozlowski Isn't Eligible for Millions in Benefits, Judge Rules
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-02T15:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/ex-tyco-ceo-kozlowski-isn-t-eligible-for-millions-in-benefits-judge-rules.html
Ex- Tyco International Ltd.  Chief
Executive Officer  L. Dennis Kozlowski , imprisoned for stealing
from the company, can’t collect tens of millions of dollars in
benefits he claims Tyco owes him, a judge said.  U.S. District Judge  Thomas P. Griesa  in New York ruled
yesterday that Kozlowski’s 2005 state-court conviction on 22
criminal counts shows that he was disloyal to Tyco and isn’t
entitled to any pay he claims he earned from September 1995 to
June 2002, when he was forced out.  “Kozlowski’s multiple breaches of his fiduciary duty over
several years clearly demonstrate his faithless service,”
Griesa wrote. “Kozlowski must therefore forfeit all
compensation and benefits, deferred or otherwise, earned during
his period of disloyalty.”  The ruling comes in a suit Tyco filed against Kozlowski in
2002. Griesa ruled in favor of several Tyco claims before trial,
while dismissing all of Kozlowski’s counterclaims for pay and
benefits after 1995.  As of October 2008, the value of Kozlowski’s retirement
account was $75.9 million, according to the court papers in the
suit.  Tyco, based in Schaffhausen, Switzerland, is the world’s
biggest maker of security systems.  Kozlowski and former Chief Financial Officer  Mark Swartz 
were convicted in 2005 of securities fraud, grand larceny and
falsifying business records. A jury in New York State Supreme
Court found they stole about $137 million from Tyco through
unauthorized bonuses and the abuse of company loans.  Kozlowski was sentenced to a prison term of eight years and
four months to 25 years.  The case is Tyco v. Kozlowski, 02-cv-07317, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 