-- Facebook Seeks Friends in Washington as Concerns Increase About Privacy
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2010-12-02T16:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/facebook-seeks-friends-in-washington-as-privacy-concerns-mount.html
Facebook Inc. is expanding its
Washington office and consulting with privacy advocates as
lawmakers question how well the world’s largest social-
networking site protects the personal information of users.  The company is looking for a public-policy expert and a
deputy press spokesman, following the June hiring of Marne
Levine to head its Washington office. Levine is a former top
aide to  Larry Summers , director of President  Barack Obama ’s
 National Economic Council . The new hires would bring Facebook’s
Washington team to eight, up from zero three years ago.  Tighter privacy rules being discussed in Washington might
limit the ability of companies such as Facebook and  Google Inc .
to tailor ads to users of their sites and curb sales growth.
Google reported a 23 percent increase in sales to $20.9 billion,
almost all from advertising, for the first three quarters of
this year. Facebook revenue may double to $1.4 billion this
year, two people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News in
August.  “A lot of people think Facebook could become bigger than
Google, but privacy could be the real Achilles heel for this
company,” said Sunil Gupta, a professor at Harvard Business
School whose research areas include new media. “Privacy will be
a huge issue, both in Washington and overseas.”  Congress, the Federal Trade Commission, and the Commerce
Department are considering how to impose additional privacy
safeguards on Internet companies that amass user data, and the
White House in October established a task force of more than a
dozen federal offices to address privacy concerns.  Do Not Track  The FTC yesterday called for a “do-not-track” option for
Internet users to allow them to block monitoring of their online
movements, used to compile profiles for marketers.  “Some consumers are troubled” by the tracking, the
agency’s staff said in a report. “Others have no idea that any
of this information collection and sharing is taking place.”  Privately owned Facebook, based in Palo Alto, California,
says it has more than 500 million users worldwide, including
more than 150 million in the United States. It channels
communication among subscribers who approve access by people
considered “friends,” and helps advertisers target consumers
based on user demographics and interests.  The company says it gives users the ability to determine
how much information they share, and that Facebook policies
prohibit revealing details that identify individuals to third
parties.  “When we talk with policy makers about Facebook, it’s
about how users have control over information,” Levine said in
an interview.  ‘Privacy Time Bomb’  Facebook triggered an outcry in April after it added a
feature that automatically connected users to three outside
websites unless they specifically opted out of the service. The
sites -- Yelp.com, Pandora and Docs.com -- tailor visits from
Facebook members based on their user information. After
complaints from privacy groups and lawmakers, Facebook in May
introduced simpler privacy settings and said it was reducing the
amount of publicly available user information.  In October, Facebook said some third-party software
applications on its platform had transferred user ID numbers in
violation of company policy. The company said it suspended some
application developers for six months, and that it was taking
steps to prevent user information from being passed to outside
companies.  “Facebook is a ticking privacy time bomb, no matter how
much they spend in lobbying,” said  Jeffrey Chester , executive
director of the Center for Digital Democracy in Washington,
which has urged the FTC to address privacy issues at Facebook
and other online marketers.  Facebook Everywhere  Even as lawmakers consider clamping down on Facebook, many
of them are users. The company started to woo members of
Congress in 2007, when its first Washington employee, Adam
Conner, then a 23-year-old congressional staffer, was hired to
teach elected officials and their staffs how to use the site.  This year, almost every candidate for the House and Senate
used Facebook to reach voters, according to Washington-based
spokesman Andrew Noyes.  “Facebook is everywhere on Capitol Hill, in the personal
and professional lives of members and staff,” said Seamus
Kraft, director of new media and press secretary for the House
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. That familiarity
hasn’t translated into a consensus on how to protect privacy
rights, he said.  The co-chairmen of the House Privacy Caucus, Texas
Republican Joe Barton and Massachusetts Democrat  Edward Markey ,
sent a  letter  to Facebook Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  on Oct. 18 questioning the company’s privacy
safeguards. Facebook’s response, a 13-page  letter  dated Oct. 29,
explained that the sharing of user IDs is part of the way
Internet browsers work and that it is developing technical
solutions to further protect its users.  Data Breaches  The response didn’t satisfy Barton, who is seeking to
become chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee in the new
Republican-controlled House.  “It seems like not a month goes by without the discovery
of a data breach of one kind or another,” Barton said in an e-
mail. “My committee and its subcommittees are going to take a
hard look at the reliability of Internet privacy policies.”  Senate Commerce Committee Chairman  Jay Rockefeller , a
Democrat from West Virginia, has said he intends to draft
Internet privacy legislation and in October fired off questions
to Facebook and  News Corp. ’s MySpace. He pressed Facebook
to explain how it enforces its privacy policy and what penalties
it levies on violators.  So far, privacy concerns haven’t stopped Facebook’s growth.
Founded by Zuckerberg in 2004 when he was a sophomore at Harvard
University, Facebook surpassed MySpace as the world’s biggest
social network two years ago and last year pushed aside  AOL  Inc.
as the fourth most-visited site in the U.S., according to
researcher  ComScore Inc .  Lessons Learned  Facebook executives say they have learned from the
experiences of companies like Google,  Microsoft Corp . and  Apple
Inc ., which have been caught up in regulatory and legislative
issues.  “We were in Washington comparatively earlier in our growth
cycle,” said Tim Sparapani, a former privacy expert for the
American Civil Liberties Union who became Facebook’s Washington
lobbyist in March 2009. “We have the benefit of having seen
those companies and their experiences in Washington and learning
from them.”  In addition to Sparapani, Conner and Levine, Washington
staffers include Noyes, a former technology reporter for the
National Journal, and Corey Owens, formerly of the Constitution
Project, a Washington-based privacy group. The company also has
former FTC commissioner  Mozelle Thompson  as an adviser on a
range of issues including privacy, Noyes said.  Moving Quickly  “Relative to the history of some other tech companies,
Facebook is now moving fairly quickly,” said  Ed Black ,
president and chief executive officer of the Computer and
Communications Industry Association, which lists Facebook as a
member.  Aside from privacy, the Washington team is seeking to spend
time on issues such as net-neutrality rules, which it favors for
landline and wireless networks, as part of the Open Internet
Coalition.  Facebook’s Washington contingent is still dwarfed by
Google, which has about 40 people in its Washington office,
including 10 registered lobbyists.  Facebook spent $221,390 on lobbying activities in the first
nine months of this year compared with $169,700 in the same
period last year, according to federal disclosure reports.
Google reported spending $3.92 million in the first nine months
of this year. Facebook hasn’t registered a political action
committee, while  Google’s PAC  gave $208,000 to federal
candidates in the past two years.  Justin Brookman, senior resident fellow of the Center for
Democracy and Technology, who has met with Facebook officials on
privacy matters, says the company is learning from its missteps.
After previewing a new ‘Places’ feature, which allows users to
reveal their locations, with groups including CDT, the company
received “as good a review as Facebook has gotten from the
privacy community,” Brookman said.  He said that CDT receives a “small amount” of funding
from Facebook -- $35,000 out of a total budget of $4 million --
which doesn’t prevent it from criticizing the company when it
has privacy problems. He cited the instance when CDT faulted
Facebook for its Beacon feature tracking users elsewhere on the
Web without their explicit permission, which Facebook ended in
2009 after two years.  Talking to privacy groups helps companies like Facebook
identify concerns ahead of time, said Berin Szoka, a privacy
advocate who is setting up a Washington organization focused on
the issue. “Google has really pioneered this kind of
engagement, but Facebook has caught up fast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert in Washington at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 