-- Fast Retailing's Uniqlo Sales Continue Slump With 14.5% Drop in November
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2010-12-02T07:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/fast-retailing-s-uniqlo-sales-continue-slump-with-14-5-drop-in-november.html
Fast Retailing Co. , Asia’s biggest
clothing chain operator, said sales at its Uniqlo stores in
Japan fell for the fourth straight month even after offering
discounts on thermal wear and down jackets.  Domestic  sales  at stores open at least a year declined 14.5
percent in November from a year earlier, the Yamaguchi City,
Japan-based company said in a statement today. Revenue per
customer fell 8.1 percent.  “It’s a negative surprise for me,”  Masamitsu Ohki , a
Tokyo-based fund manager at Stats Investment Management Co.,
which owns shares of Fast Retailing, said in a phone interview
today. “I had expected a 10 percent increase or at least for
sales to remain unchanged.”  Fast Retailing , which has  lost  23 percent of its market
value this year, saw Uniqlo’s monthly domestic same-store sales
plunge 24.7 percent in September, the biggest drop in seven
years. The clothier has  forecast  that full-year  net income  will
fall for the first time in four years as it offers more
discounts amid increasing competition.  Demand during November fell even after  record  one-day sales
of about 10.2 billion yen ($121 million) on Nov. 20, the first
day of a four-day promotion campaign.  Fast Retailing  gained 1 percent to 13,390 yen at the 3 p.m.
close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange before the announcement. The
stock has  slid  about 7 times faster than the 3.35 percent
decline for the broader Topix index.  The clothing chain reduced the price of its Heattech
turtleneck by 34 percent to 990 yen and that of the  Ultra Light
Down  jacket by 33 percent to 3,990 yen during the campaign.
Uniqlo’s domestic same-store sales may fall 4.7 percent in the
fiscal year ending in August, it said in October.  “We don’t think it was a bad number since we had very good
sales a year earlier,” company spokesman Daisuke Hase said in a
phone interview today. “We recorded very good sales in
promotions this month. We are almost in line with our
projections."  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  