-- Bullard Says Increase in Rates Doesn't Mean Assset Purchases Are Failing
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-12-02T19:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/fed-s-bullard-says-increase-in-rates-doesn-t-mean-qe2-failing.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said a recent increase in market
interest rates doesn’t mean the central bank’s expansion of
monetary stimulus is failing.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries have risen to 2.94 percent
from 2.49 percent on Nov. 4, the day after the Fed’s decision to
buy $600 billion in Treasuries. While the program “puts
downward pressure” on rates, successful policy would generate
faster growth and higher real interest rates while also
increasing inflation expectations, Bullard said today in a
presentation in Washington.  “Therefore, looking at the level of nominal rates alone is
insufficient to judge the success of the program,” Bullard said
in the presentation to the National Economists Club.  The remarks are part of Bullard’s response to criticisms of
the Fed’s program. Bullard is among Fed policy makers who backed
the plan in a bid to boost economic growth and lower
unemployment. The decision has generated the most intense
criticism of the Fed in three decades, especially from
Republican politicians, for risking a surge in inflation and a
weaker dollar.  Bullard said “dollar depreciation is a normal by-product
of an easier monetary policy, provided all else is held constant
in the rest of the world.”  Speaking with reporters afterward, Bullard said he doesn’t
see Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis having spillover effects yet
in the U.S. “At this point, I don’t see any but I’d be cautious
about that,” Bullard said.  Plosser Comments  In a separate appearance today, Fed Bank of Philadelphia
President Charles Plosser said the asset-purchase program will
hinder future efforts to withdraw stimulus and avert a rise in
prices.  “One cost of expanding the Fed’s balance sheet is that it
will complicate our exit strategy from a very accommodative
monetary policy, when that time comes,” Plosser said in remarks
prepared for a speech in Rochester, New York.  Bullard responded to another criticism that the Fed is
“monetizing” debt issued by the U.S. government. Once the Fed
shrinks its balance sheet to “normal, pre-crisis levels,” the
Treasury will have “just as much debt held by the public as
before the Fed took any of these actions,” he said.  And to skeptics who say the asset purchases won’t be
effective, Bullard said monetary-policy easing “produces its
maximum impact on real variables in the economy, including
output, consumption, and investment, with a lag of six to 12
months.”  December Meeting  Bullard, 49, became the St. Louis Fed’s chief in April
2008. The Dec. 14 Federal Open Market Committee meeting will be
the last one this year in which Bullard can vote; he will next
have a vote on monetary policy in 2013.  The decision to buy Treasuries has been dubbed QE2 by
investors and economists for the second round of quantitative
easing, a term for monetary policies that change the quantity of
bank reserves.  Bullard told the group he’s “very keen” on the idea that
the asset-purchase program will be reviewed regularly, with the
potential to adjust the terms in response to incoming economic
data. The $600 billion figure is a form of “forward guidance”
on how much the Fed expects to buy, Bullard said.  Responding to audience questions, Bullard said he sees
scenarios in which the FOMC could decide to pause or extend the
purchases based on the strength of economic data. He said he
wasn’t an advocate of the $600 billion figure and he’d still
like to convince fellow policy makers to decide on purchases on
a meeting-to-meeting basis.  Jobless Rate  The FOMC said in its Nov. 3 statement that the jobless rate
was too high and inflation too low relative to levels that
policy makers deem consistent with the central bank’s
legislative mandate for maximum employment and stable prices.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which is tied to consumer
spending and strips out food and energy costs, climbed at a 0.8
percent annual pace in the third quarter, down from a 1 percent
increase the prior quarter. The central bank’s preferred long-
run rate for overall inflation is a range of 1.6 percent to 2
percent; it doesn’t have a core-inflation objective.  Bullard told reporters that he expects the Fed’s asset
purchases to stem the disinflation trend next year and send
inflation upward.  U.S. employers probably added 148,000 jobs in November, and
the jobless rate held at 9.6 percent, based on the median
estimates of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Labor
Department issues its monthly jobs report tomorrow at 8:30 a.m.  ‘Cautiously Optimistic’  Bullard, in response to an audience question, said he’s
“cautiously optimistic” for growth and decline in the jobless
rate next year.  At their Nov. 2-3 meeting, Fed policy makers projected a
fourth-quarter 2011 unemployment rate of 8.9 percent to 9.1
percent, compared with 8.3 percent to 8.7 percent in their
previous forecast in June. Officials said the economy will
expand by 3 percent to 3.6 percent next year, down from a 3.5
percent to 4.2 percent projection in June.  Speaking with reporters afterward, Bullard said there were
“not a lot of surprises” in the Fed’s disclosure yesterday of
recipients of $3.3 trillion in central bank aid during the
financial crisis, which showed European firms including Barclays
Plc and UBS AG were among the biggest borrowers from emergency
lending programs. “You could be protectionist” and say foreign
firms aren’t welcome to operate in the U.S., Bullard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  