-- Fed's Plosser Says QE Will Complicate Withdrawal of Stimulus
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-12-02T20:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/fed-s-plosser-says-qe-will-complicate-withdrawal-of-stimulus.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the central bank’s program to
expand its assets by $600 billion will hinder future efforts to
withdraw stimulus and avert a rise in prices.  “One cost of expanding the Fed’s balance sheet is that it
will complicate our exit strategy from a very accommodative
monetary policy, when that time comes,” Plosser said in a
speech today in Rochester, New York.  Policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  plan to meet
in Washington on Dec. 14 to review a program to buy Treasury
securities to spur growth and keep inflation from falling too
low. Such “quantitative easing” may provide stimulus for too
long, fueling inflation, Plosser said to a seminar sponsored by
the University of Rochester’s Simon Graduate School of Business.  “Even with the best of intentions, if we don’t act
aggressively and promptly, we may find ourselves behind the
curve and at risk for substantial inflation,” he said. “The
Fed is developing and testing tools to help us prevent such a
rapid explosion in money.”  Plosser said before the Fed’s Nov. 3 meeting that he didn’t
support expansion of the balance sheet. Today he said he’s
“still somewhat skeptical that we will see much of a
stimulative effect from the new round of purchases.”  “It is not clear to me that a further reduction in long-
term interest rates will do much to speed up the reduction in
the unemployment rate to more acceptable levels,” Plosser said.
If the purchases do not increase growth by much, “then the
argument that the program will reduce the risks of deflation is
also substantially weakened.”  Dubbed QE2  Other Fed policy makers have expressed concerns about the
purchases, dubbed QE2 for the second round of quantitative
easing. Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh  said he was “less optimistic
than some” about the program’s benefits, and Richmond Fed
President  Jeffrey Lacker  told reporters last month that he
“thought the risks exceeded the benefits” from further easing.  The Fed’s decision to undertake new bond purchases sparked
a political backlash in Washington. Last month, two Republicans,
Tennessee Senator  Bob Corker  and Indiana Representative  Mike Pence , proposed removing the Fed’s full employment mandate to
focus the central bank on stable prices alone. Corker plans to
introduce legislation next year.  Plosser told reporters after the speech that he has argued
for 20 years that “providing a stable price environment is the
best way for the Fed to support economic growth and stability.”  Fed Goals  Price stability “ought to have some primacy in the way we
think about our goals,” he said. Still, he said it’s
“incumbent on the Congress to set our mandates.”  At its November meeting, the Fed said “the pace of
recovery in output and employment continues to be slow” and
that household spending remains constrained by “high
unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth and
tight credit.”  The exchange rate of the U.S. dollar is “not a target” of
monetary policy, Plosser said. “Our objective wasn’t to lower
the dollar as a way to stimulate economy.”  The Fed’s Beige Book anecdotal survey of business contacts,
released yesterday, said the economy gained strength across much
of the U.S. as hiring improved, manufacturing expanded and
retailers anticipated a stronger holiday shopping season.  “History has taught us that recoveries are rarely a smooth
upward trajectory,” he said. “Yet, the most recent data
suggest that the economy is emerging from the summer doldrums.”  Crisis in Europe  One risk to his forecasts, Plosser told reporters, is the
debt crisis in Europe.  “Europe is a risk out there for us,” he said. “Could it
adversely affect some momentum building for us in the U.S.? It
might. Right now I tend to think it’s not going to.”  Plosser said that while inflation is low, “it does not
follow that sustained deflation is imminent or even likely.”  U.S. economic growth will probably pick up to 3 percent or
3.5 percent over the next two years, and unemployment will fall
to 8 percent to 8.5 percent by the end of next year, he said.  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy with
Plosser, 62, voting next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Rochester, New York at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.ne  