-- Commodities to Get Boost From New Regulation Effort, Arrowhawk's Fan Says
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r
-- 2010-12-02T20:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/financial-overhaul-to-boost-physical-commodities-fan-says.html
The most sweeping rewrite of Wall
Street rules since the 1930s will encourage traders to invest in
physical commodities, potentially keeping supply off the market
and affecting prices, said  Jennifer Fan , a partner and senior
portfolio manager with Arrowhawk Commodity Strategies, a hedge
fund in Darien, Connecticut.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is trying to limit
the impact traders have on the prices for raw materials, Fan
said. Reining in futures trading won’t be effective because it
will drive traders to the physical markets, she said.  “It’s driving people to invest in physical commodities and
actually taking commodities that we produce and holding them off
the market, not using them and just keeping them for investment
purposes, and I think that’s pretty clear that that affects the
price of commodities,” Fan said today at the Bloomberg Link
Hedge Fund and Investor Briefing in New York during a panel
titled Timing the Peak of the Global Commodities Rush.  The  Dodd-Frank financial overhaul , which became law in
July, gave the CFTC a year to establish rules governing the $615
trillion over-the-counter derivatives market. The commission has
until January to impose limits on the number of contracts a
single trader can hold for commodities including oil, natural
gas and gasoline. It has until April to impose limits on
agricultural products.  Chilton Reaction  “Folks are always going to try and find a way around the
law, rules or regulations,” said CFTC Commissioner Bart Chilton
in an e-mail. “Sometimes that is sort of like pushing on a
balloon. You may make a difference in one place, but it comes
out another.”  The law also includes the so-called Volcker rule barring
banks from trading on their own accounts, as well as rules
designed to push the over-the-counter market onto regulated
clearinghouses and exchanges -- two issues that have garnered
much attention from Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Bank of America Corp., according to meetings posted on
the Web sites of the federal regulators.  The CFTC, along with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, must also determine which companies will be
categorized as swap dealers or major swap participants. Those
are designations that entail higher capital requirements and
increased scrutiny.  Dodd-Frank  The law is named for its primary authors, Senate Banking
Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd , a Connecticut Democrat, and
House Financial Services Chairman  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts
Democrat. It aims to stem systemic risk by requiring most
interest-rate, credit-default and other swaps be processed by
clearinghouses after being traded on exchanges or swap-execution
facilities.  Congress took aim at the industry after soured trades on
mortgage and credit derivatives tipped the U.S. economy into the
deepest recession since the 1930s.  The panel included  Richard Robb , an economics professor at
Columbia University and chief executive officer of
Christofferson, Robb and Co., a New York- and London-based
investment management firm;  Mari Kooi , chief executive officer
of Santa Fe, New Mexico-based Wolf Asset Management
International LLC; and  Tim Flannery , founder and chief
investment officer of Copia Capital LLC, a Chicago-based hedge
fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 