-- Ford Tops `Government Motors' in Sales to U.S. After Avoiding Obama Rescue
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2010-12-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/ford-tops-government-motors-in-sales-to-u-s-after-avoiding-obama-rescue.html
Ford Motor Co.,  which eschewed a 2009
U.S. bailout, sold the most cars and trucks to the federal
government this year for the first time since at least 2005,
belying concerns the Obama administration would favor its
government-owned competitors.  The U.S. bought 21,980 vehicles directly from Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford in fiscal 2010, edging out Detroit-based
 General Motors Co.  by about 540 vehicles, according to data
obtained under a Freedom of Information request from the  U.S.
General Services Administration , which coordinates most federal
vehicle purchases. Chrysler Group LLC sold 13,063 vehicles.  Ford’s gain under Obama’s presidency came after the
administration engineered bailouts totaling $85 billion of GM
and Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler and their finance
units last year.  “There was a paranoia that the government was going to buy
GM and Chrysler models to help them out because they had a foot
in the door,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst at IHS
Automotive in Lexington, Massachusetts. “There was a definite
concern for Ford.”  The GSA has accounted for almost a quarter of sales of
hybrids by U.S.-based automakers during Obama’s presidency,
according to the agency data, helping Ford gain the edge over
GM. Ford sold at least 11,066 hybrids to the U.S. in the past
two years, compared with 3,316 for GM, which discontinued sales
of its highest volume hybrid, the Chevrolet Malibu, last year.  “The GSA alternative-fuel vehicle guidelines emphasize
higher fuel efficiency and reduced greenhouse gases,”  Mike Moran , a Ford spokesman in Washington, said.  Ford’s Surge  Ford has boosted overall sales at twice the industry’s rate
so far this calendar year and is on track to gain U.S. market
share for a second year in a row -- the first two-year increase
since 1993, Moran said. The company yesterday reported a 20
percent gain in November sales, compared with GM’s 11 percent
increase and Chrysler’s 17 percent.  Ford also picked up additional government sales of Fusion
sedans, Ranger pickups and Explorer sport-utility vehicles in
fiscal 2010, which ended Sept. 30. Chrysler’s Dodge Caravan
minivan was the most popular government purchase from that
automaker.  Ford trailed both GM and Chrysler in government sales as
recently as 2006, before achieving a 92 percent increase in
2009. Government sales by all three companies fell in 2010 from
the previous year -- Ford’s by 22 percent, GM’s by 46 percent
and Chrysler’s by 9 percent. GSA’s total purchases declined by
28 percent from 2009.  Top Models  The most popular government-bought model over the past
three years is the Chevrolet Impala, the ninth best-selling
model among consumers. The Chevy Tahoe SUV, often portrayed in
movies with opaque tinted windows in government caravans, is
fourth. Ford’s F-150 was the fifth best seller and the F-Series
line of trucks had the highest volume for a group, the data
show.  “We work through the GSA process to deliver the right
vehicles for the right job,” said  Greg Martin , a GM spokesman
in Washington. “We expect other automakers do the same.”  The U.S. government buys 60,000 to 70,000 automobiles
annually through the GSA, said  Sara Merriam , a spokeswoman for
the agency.  The shift from GM to Ford isn’t part of a specific
government initiative, Merriam said.  “Industry response is a component of this,” Merriam said.
“They have to bid to be considered and ultimately to be
selected. Maybe Ford was the most active and aggressive.”  The GM and Ford automotive purchases in 2010 were among the
406,679 vehicles the GSA purchased in the past six fiscal years,
or about $8.59 billion worth of cars, trucks, fire engines and
ambulances, according to the data.  GSA Vehicle Costs  Government purchases during the six-year period were highest
in fiscal 2009, as GM and Chrysler emerged from government-
backed bankruptcies, totaling 89,380 units for a cost of $1.95
billion, the data show.  The GSA spent an average of $22,672 per vehicle over the
past three fiscal years, ranging from $6,800 buses to $937,505
fire-fighting vehicles. The average price consumers paid was
$28,508, according to vehicle-pricing website http:// Edmunds.com 
in Santa Monica, California.  Ford Executive Chairman  Bill Ford  said on April 20, 2009,
shortly before Chrysler and GM entered government-backed
bankruptcies, that the moves might pose a competitive challenge
for Ford. GM is the top-selling automaker in the U.S. and Ford
is second this year. In 2008 and 2009, Ford was third behind
Toyota.  ‘Government Motors’  “We really don’t want to compete with a state-owned
enterprise,” Ford said at the time. “Frankly, that’s probably
not in anybody’s best interest, including the government’s.”  Outgoing GM Chairman  Ed Whitacre  said in August he wanted
to shake off the stigma of being “government motors” as
quickly as possible. GM raised more than $23 billion, mostly for
U.S. and Canadian governments and a union health fund, selling
common and preferred stock in its initial public offering Nov.
17 and in a second offering from banks last week.  The IPO, 16 months after bankruptcy, cut the U.S. stake to
33 percent from 61 percent.  It would be difficult for the government to show preference
for an automaker, even one it owned, because of the structure of
the U.S. bureaucracy, said  Jeff Green , president of at JA Green
& Co. LLC in Washington, who has a background in government
contract law.  “The government is so disaggregated that it would be hard
to favor one company over another,” he said. “I would have
been really surprised if someone were able to game the system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 