-- France Plans Temporary Freeze on Solar Projects to End `Bubble,' PM Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-12-02T16:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/france-plans-temporary-freeze-new-rules-for-solar-projects.html
France plans to temporarily freeze
new solar projects as part of a plan to end a “veritable
speculative bubble” that has emerged in the industry, French
Prime Minister Francois Fillon said today.  “The flourishing of solar in France, which is faster than
expected, comes at a cost to local government and consumers,”
Fillon said in a statement today. “Development relies on a
feed-in tariff for electricity that is very favorable to
producers.”  Fillon didn’t announce a further reduction in the tariffs
paid by Electricite de France SA for solar power as reports this
week suggested would be the case. Instead, the prime minister
said a new regulatory framework would be put in place by March.
Long-term targets for solar development have already been
surpassed “justifying” the new rules, he said.  Solar development targets for 2012 will be reached “within
weeks,” Fillon said. The new rules aim to balance a target of
500 megawatts of new solar projects a year and protecting
consumers by keeping power prices in check.  The freeze excludes household solar panels with a capacity
of less than 3 kilowatts, according to the statement. For bigger
ventures, the government plans to pass a decree “to temporarily
suspend the registration of new projects.”  France’s solar industry has come under scrutiny in
recent months as capacity expanded while subsidized tariffs
remained relatively high and costs dropped. The government cut
the so-called feed-in tariff for solar power twice this year.  ‘Wise’ Decision  “Feed-in tariffs will be lowered. The question is how
quickly and whether they will be accompanied by caps on
capacity,” Richard Loyen, head of industry group Enerplan, said
by telephone. He called decision to impose a three-month
moratorium on new projects eligible for the subsidy “wise.”  Feed-in tariffs require utilities to buy electricity from
renewable sources at more than the standard rate. EDF, France’s
former power monopoly, pays more for solar power than for the
nuclear power it produces at 58 reactors and what it can buy on
European spot electricity markets. The added cost is passed on
to consumers through the tax.  The regulator estimates that EDF will pay an average of 546
euros ($722) a megawatt-hour for solar power in 2011. This
compares with estimated spot market power prices of 55 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  