-- 
GM Bankruptcy Plan Improperly Treats Debt, Toxic Cleanup Creditors Say

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-02-11T22:55:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/gm-estate-has-agreement-with-u-s-creditors-to-approve-liquidation-plan.html
Creditors of General Motors Corp.’s
unwanted businesses opposed a final wind-down bankruptcy plan
because they say it improperly treats $1.3 billion in debt and
doesn’t account for environmental cleanup costs in two states.    Hedge funds  holding notes in Motors Liquidation Co.’s Nova
Scotia unit filed objections to the plan today in  Manhattan   bankruptcy court , where a confirmation hearing is scheduled for
March 3. Onondaga County,  New York , and the California
Department of Toxic Substances Control also filed objections.  When GM filed for bankruptcy in June 2009, it sold some
assets to a newly formed company that has since gone public.
Unwanted properties were left under  bankruptcy protection . An
outline of the terms of a plan for so-called Old GM was approved
by the bankruptcy court Dec. 7.  Under an agreement designed to prevent GM Canada from also
filing for bankruptcy, General Motors Nova Scotia Finance Co.
relieved GM Canada of $1.3 billion in intercompany loans before
the U.S. bankruptcy filing. Appaloosa Management LP, Aurelius
Capital Management LP, Elliott Management Corp. and Fortress
Investment Group LLC, holders of notes in General Motors Nova
Scotia Finance, said the sale was used to wrongly avoid paying
$1.3 billion in debt.  ‘Initial Distributions’  The debtors “are seeking, through the plan, to deprive the
Nova Scotia Noteholders and the Nova Scotia Trustee of
entitlement to any initial distributions under the Plan,” the
funds said in their filing.  Onondaga County said the plan doesn’t give accurate cost
estimates or other information about polychlorinated biphenyls
from a facility in Salina, New York, adjacent to Ley Creek,
where it flows into Onondaga Lake. PCBs are organic compounds
that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency  says  have been
demonstrated to cause cancer.  In its objection, the California Department of Toxic
Substances Control said it has environmental claims for three
sites in the state. The bankrupt businesses are liable to the
agencies for the ongoing pollution from the sites, the agency
said.  The case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York bankruptcy court at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 