-- MGM Studios Wins Court Approval of Plan to Reorganize
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-12-02T23:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/mgm-studios-wins-court-approval-of-plan-to-reorganize-update1-.html
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc.,
distributor of James Bond and Rocky films, won a judge’s
approval to reorganize under the management of  Spyglass
Entertainment Group Inc.  and billionaire  Carl Icahn , removing
the last hurdle to emerging from court protection.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart Bernstein in  New York 
confirmed MGM’s Chapter 11 plan today, less than a month after
the studio filed for bankruptcy. Equity will be canceled, and
more than $5 billion in claims will convert to 99 percent of the
stock of the reorganized company.  Jay M. Goffman, an attorney for MGM, said at a hearing that
there were “no objections of any kind” to the plan.  “Nothing is controverted,” he said. “It is an example of
the teamwork and consensus building that is the hallmark of this
case.”  MGM expects the bankruptcy plan to become effective in mid-
December, the company said in a statement after the judge’s
ruling.  “By dramatically reducing MGM’s debt load and providing
MGM with access to new capital, the reorganization plan the
court confirmed today will enable MGM to emerge from this
process with a solid financial foundation and will position MGM
to be a successful studio going forward,” Co-Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Cooper said in a statement.  Prepackaged Plan  Talks between the company and its debt holders began well
before MGM’s Nov. 3 filing of a so-called prepackaged plan to
move it through the court in 30 days.  The Los Angeles-based company filed after rejecting a
takeover bid by Icahn and  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp . It
listed $2.7 billion in assets and $5.8 billion in debt,
including accrued interest on its loans.  Icahn agreed to the plan after changes were made, including
one granting him authority to designate one of nine directors of
the reorganized company’s board.  The studio foundered after piling on debt to go private in
2005. It plans to install managers from  Spyglass , the producer
of “The Sixth Sense.”  Gary Barber , founder of Spyglass, and
his partner  Roger Birnbaum  are to serve as co-chairmen and co-
chief executive officers.  Three directors from the creditors that helped restructure
the company will also serve on its board, according to
bankruptcy court papers that leaves two directors unidentified.  New Directors  Patrick H. Daugherty, a partner at Highland Capital
Management LP; Christopher Pucillo, founder of Solus Alternative
Asset Management LP; and Kevin Ulrich, chief executive officer
of Anchorage Capital Group LLC, will join the nine-member board.  Highland, Solus and Anchorage were part of the creditors’
committee that helped negotiate MGM’s restructuring, along with
Davidson Kempner Capital Management LLC, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Invesco Inc.  Jason O. Hirschhorn, recently co-president of social
networking company MySpace, and Frederic G. Reynolds, former
chief financial officer of CBS Corp., also were named as
directors.  MGM, whose 4,000-title film and television library included
“The Wizard of Oz” and “Gone With the Wind,” has a co-
production deal with  Time Warner Inc .’s Warner Bros. to
make a movie based on J.R.R. Tolkien’s “The Hobbit.”  Moelis & Co. and Zolfo Cooper are advising MGM, and its
legal counsel is Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and
Klee, Tuchin, Bogdanoff & Stern LLP.  The case is In re Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studies Inc.
10-15774,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
  Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York
at  tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 