-- GME Exchange in Italy Halts EU Carbon Trading, Cites `Abnormal' Activity
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2010-12-02T14:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/gme-exchange-in-italy-halts-eu-carbon-trading-cites-abnormal-activity.html
Italy’s Gestore dei Mercati
Energetici SpA suspended trading of European Union carbon
permits on its exchange, citing “abnormal trading” and
“presumed irregular or unlawful behaviors.”  The stoppage, which will remain in effect until further
notice, follows a surge in volumes on the exchange, Rome-based
 GME  said today on its website.  GME trades spot carbon allowances once a week issued under
the EU emissions trading system, the world’s largest. The cap-
and-trade program was valued at almost $119 billion last year,
according to a World Bank report.  ‘It’s absolutely necessary that they’ve suspended trade,’’
 Alessandro Vitelli , director of strategy and information at
IDEAcarbon in London, said by phone today. ‘It’s been a
forgotten corner of this market.’’  The weighted average price of emission permits for spot
delivery on the GME was 14.86 euros ($19.41) a ton on Nov. 25 as
volumes surged to 3.25 million tons from 20,000 tons in January,
according to the exchange’s  website . Spot allowances on the
Paris-based BlueNext exchange closed at 15.1 euros that day as
632,000  permits  changed hands.  Vitelli said it isn’t clear why prices on GME were
“significantly lower” than prices on other exchanges, which
also include the ICE Futures Europe in London, Climex in
Utrecht, Netherlands, NordPool in Oslo and the European Energy
Exchange in Leipzig, Germany.  To protect the EU emissions system from value-added tax
fraud, the 27-nation bloc agreed in March to introduce the so-
called  reverse-charge mechanism  that shifts the levy to
customers rather than sellers.  Unproven  “It’s feasible that it could be VAT fraud, but that’s not
been proven” on the GME, Vitelli said.  The Italian finance ministry wasn’t immediately available
to comment on VAT mechanisms chosen by the government regarding
carbon trading.  The EU decision followed reports that some sellers of
carbon permits pocketed VAT collected from buyers and
disappeared before submitting the money to the treasury. France
and the U.K. scrapped the tax on emissions trading last year,
while the Netherlands shifted the VAT levy to the buyer as a
safeguard against the so-called carousel fraud.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
 Catherine Airlie  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  