-- Google’s Bid for Groupon Drives Interest in Daily-Deal Sites
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-12-02T20:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/google-s-6-billion-pursuit-of-groupon-drives-interest-in-daily-deal-sites.html
Google Inc.’s bid for daily-deal site
Groupon may spur similar acquisitions by the top Internet
companies, including Yahoo! Inc., AOL Inc. and Microsoft Corp.  Groupon rivals LivingSocial.com,  BuyWithMe.com  and
Tippr.com are among potential targets as the Web giants seek a
bigger piece of the local advertising market, analysts said.  Google offered to buy Groupon for $6 billion, more than 10
times the company’s $500 million in sales this year, two people
familiar with the matter said Nov. 30. That valuation is drawing
more attention to rivals, said  Ira Cohen , a managing director at
Signal Hill Capital.  “Leaders get taken out and then the me-too acquisitions
happen,” said New York-based Cohen, who heads his firm’s
technology practice and has advised companies on more than 200
mergers and acquisitions. Groupon’s competitors aren’t likely to
get such lofty premiums, he said.  Groupon also considered raising money from venture
capitalists, who valued the Chicago-based company at more than
$3 billion, the people said. That led Google to raise its
initial bid, the people said.  Yahoo had approached Groupon and didn’t make a deal to buy
it, according to two people close to those discussions. Yahoo
may now be looking for a different daily-deal site, said  Sandeep Aggarwal , an analyst at Caris & Co. in San Francisco.  Even if Google’s Groupon negotiations founder, other
companies will probably show interest in coupon sites.
 Amazon.com Inc.  and EBay Inc. are among companies likely to
consider daily-deal targets, Aggarwal said.  Amazon, LivingSocial  “If Google makes a move, many of the other Internet
companies will try to get similar assets -- be they homegrown or
through acquisitions,” Aggarwal said.  More local ad spending -- estimated at $133 billion this
year -- is moving online and away from print, radio and direct
mail, according to consulting firm  BIA/Kelsey  in Chantilly,
Virginia.  Amazon is considering an investment in  LivingSocial ,
Groupon’s biggest competitor, tech blog Venture Beat reported.  “We see a tie-up between Amazon and LivingSocial as a smart
strategic and financial move,”  Marianne Wolk , an analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group in New York, said today in a note to
clients. “It could also help Google gain regulatory approval for
a deal with Groupon.”  LivingSocial has about 500 employees, up from 30 at the end
of last year. The company generates about $1 million a day, and
expects 2011 sales to top $500 million, said Chief Executive
Officer  Tim O’Shaughnessy , who founded the site in 2007.  ‘Big Players’  “It’s an easy business to get into, but it’s not
necessarily the easiest to scale,” O’Shaughnessy said.  He declined to comment on possible interest from Amazon,
saying only, “Big players entering the space provide even more
validation to what we know is a successful and growing business
strategy.”  Daily-deal sites offer discounts -- typically 50 percent --
from businesses such as restaurants and nail salons, then keep a
portion of the sales. The promotions activate once enough people
sign up for them. The barriers to start such a site are few --
just about anyone with an e-mail list and a deal can do it.  OpenTable Inc. , the online restaurant-reservation system
offers a daily deal. So do e-commerce site  Gilt Groupe Inc.  and
Facebook Inc.  “This is a really big category and it’s not winner-take-
all,” said  Dana Stalder , a general partner at venture capital
firm Matrix Partners in Menlo Park, California. Matrix is an
investor in BuyWithMe Inc. “I would not be surprised if there’s
further consolidation in the category in the next 12 months.”  Competitive Edge  Internet companies often find themselves pursuing the same
startups to gain a competitive edge. Apple Inc. approached
mobile ad network AdMob Inc. before Google bought it in May,
according to people familiar with the matter. Apple, in turn,
purchased rival ad network Quattro Wireless Inc.  Google agreed to buy DoubleClick Inc. in 2007 to gain
technology that sells display ads and measures their reach. A
month later, Microsoft made a deal to acquire DoubleClick rival
AQuantive Inc.  Merchants are figuring out how best to use Groupon, with
some getting overwhelmed with a flood of new business. Daily-
deal sites will suffer if businesses stop participating in deals
because they can’t find a way to satisfy all customers, said
 Sucharita Mulpuru , an analyst at Forrester Research Inc.  “Everyone thinks this hyper growth is going to continue,”
said Mulpuru, who is based in Cambridge, Massachusetts. “If
these merchants come to realize these customers are not coming
back, they’re not going to do more Groupons. And if they don’t
do more Groupons the whole model falls apart.”  Many sites are trying to fill specific niches and tailor
their deals. There are also aggregators such as  Yipit.com , which
compile offers from about 130 sites, including Groupon and
LivingSocial.  “Groupon may be the foundation for a whole new set of
acquisitions,” said  Peter Krasilovsky , an analyst at BIA/Kelsey
in San Diego. “There are dozens of deal-a-day companies that
have been out there trying to sell themselves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  