-- Bank Stresses Reach Highest Level Since June, Libor Shows: Credit Market
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-12-02T14:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/libor-measure-shows-bank-stresses-reach-highest-since-june-credit-markets.html
Derivatives traders are more concerned
than at anytime since June that European leaders will fail to
address the crisis engulfing the region’s single currency, 
driving up the cost to borrow for financial companies.  Contracts used to bet on the future premium banks will
charge each other for dollar loans in London over the federal
funds rate almost doubled in November. The so-called FRA/OIS
spread soared to 42.75 basis points, before easing back to 39.25
yesterday, UBS AG data show.  The measure shows banks are still wary of lending to each
other, even as European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  steps up his response to the region’s debt crisis by
delaying withdrawing emergency liquidity from the system. The
ECB said earlier this year that European banks’ ability to sell
bonds may be hampered as governments seek to finance fiscal
deficits amassed in part to finance a bailout of the banking
industry.  “You come back inexorably to the link between sovereigns
and financials,” said  Matteo Regesta , an interest-rate
strategist in London at BNP Paribas SA, the world’s biggest bank
by assets. “Financial companies have issues with non-performing
loans, fueling the idea they might need government help, which
puts pressure on the sovereign, which the banks are also exposed
to.”  The gains in the FRA/OIS spread in recent weeks signal the
market’s expectation that the London interbank offered rate, or
Libor, will increase in coming months, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch strategists led by  Jeffrey Rosenberg  in New York wrote in
a Nov. 30 note to clients.  Relative Yield  The premium European banks pay in the currency swaps market
to borrow in dollars has almost doubled in the past three weeks,
reaching the highest level since May on Nov. 30. The cost to
protect against losses on their bonds jumped to a 20-month high
before paring the increase yesterday.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt fell 1 basis point from a 12-week high to 176
basis points, or 1.76 percentage points, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields averaged 3.821 percent, the highest since July 27.  Bonds from New York-based American International Group Inc.
were the most actively traded U.S. corporate securities by
dealers, the day after the insurer sold $2 billion of bonds in
its first offering since a bailout in 2008, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. Trace tallied 188 trades of $1 million or
more.  AIG Bonds Rise  AIG’s $500 million of 3.65 percent notes due January 2014
rose 0.4 cent to 100.37 cents on the dollar as of 3:42 p.m. in
New York yesterday, Trace data show. The bonds were issued Nov.
30 at a 295 basis-point spread, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  AIG’s $1.5 billion of 6.4 percent debt due December 2020
fell 0.26 cent to 99.478 cents on the dollar, Trace data show.
Those notes were issued with a relative yield of 362.5 basis
points, Bloomberg data show.  PineBridge Investments is marketing a collateralized loan
obligation targeted at about $480 million, the first CLO from
the manager since it completed its separation from AIG in March,
according to three people familiar with the discussions.  The market for CLOs is beginning to open with $2.6 billion
of deals backed by widely syndicated loans completed this year.
The market had $91.1 billion of issuance at its peak in 2007,
according to Morgan Stanley data. CLOs are a type of
collateralized debt obligation that pool high-yield, high-risk
loans and slice them into securities of varying risk and return.  Leveraged Loans  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index 
rose 0.09 cent to 91.7 cents on the dollar, the first increase
since Nov. 18. Prices on the  index , which tracks the 100 largest
dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, have declined
from 92.72 cents on Nov. 9, the highest since May 3.  Leveraged loans and junk bonds are rated below Baa3 at
Moody’s Investors Service or less than BBB- at S&P.  Citigroup Inc.  sold $1.875 billion of five-year notes as
part of terms for a cash infusion from Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority in 2007. The transaction is a remarketing of 6.7
percent junior subordinated debt initially due in March 2042,
the New York-based bank said in a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The notes yield 250 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data show.  Emerging Markets  In emerging markets, relative yields fell 18 basis points
to 254 basis points, the biggest decline since May 10, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. index data.  The FRA/OIS spread reflects trading in the forward market
on the premium of the three-month dollar Libor over what
investors expect the overnight federal funds rate to average,
the Libor-OIS spread. The gauge has climbed from 23 basis points
on Oct. 29 and was at the highest level Nov. 30 since reaching
44.25 on June 28, UBS data show.  The spread reached a record 128.25 basis points in November
2008, as the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. two
months earlier caused credit markets to seize up.  The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance to lend,
declined to 10.74 basis points after reaching 11.13 basis points
Nov. 30.  The cost of insuring against a default on European company
debt maintained an earlier decline after Trichet said at a press
conference in Frankfurt that the ECB will keep buying government
bonds to ease the “acute” tensions in financial markets.  Junk Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
protecting 50 mostly junk-rated European companies fell 12 basis
points to 492 as of 2:33 p.m. in London, according to Markit
Group Ltd. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on junior
debt of banks and insurers has fallen 16 basis points to 296
after reaching a 20-month high of 311.5 on Nov. 30, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. prices show.  Credit-default swaps typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Europe’s sovereign crisis also is causing a surge in the
premium the region’s banks pay to borrow in dollars in the swaps
market. The price of two-year cross-currency basis swaps between
euros and dollars reached minus 50.6 basis points on Nov. 30,
the largest effective premium for dollar borrowing in swaps
since May, Bloomberg data show. The gap, which narrowed to minus
45.5 basis points yesterday, has widened from minus 30.3 basis
points on Nov. 22.  Currency Swaps  Two-year cross-currency basis swaps between euros and
dollars widened to as much as a record minus 92.5 basis points
in October 2008.  Signs of strain are also showing up in the interest-rate
swaps market. The difference between the rate to exchange
floating- for fixed-interest payments for two years and the
comparable-maturity Treasury yield, known as the swap spread,
widened 3.5 basis points to 27.38 basis points after reaching
30.88 Nov. 30, the most since July.  The tensions in bank funding markets haven’t reached the
levels that roiled the markets in May, when European leaders
took measures to stem the sovereign debt crisis and bail out
Greece, the Bank of America analysts wrote. Swap lines created
by the Federal Reserve in 2008 and reinstated in May have
relieved European banks’ dollar funding needs, the analysts
wrote.  SEC Rules  The strains in May also were exacerbated by new SEC rules
that forced money-market funds to shift more of their holdings
into shorter maturity debt, causing a decline in demand for
longer debt sold by banks.  “This recent increase in measures of funding pressures
pales in comparison to what we saw earlier this year as the
first round of sovereign crisis played out,” the Bank of
America analysts wrote.  “With financial contagion gathering pace across countries
and sectors, we reiterate our view that it is urgent for the ECB
to intervene in the market to send a powerful message to global
investors that the central bank stands ready to provide an
unlimited line of defense for the euro area,”  Jacques Cailloux ,
chief European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland in London,
said yesterday in a note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  