-- Iceland Bankruptcy-to-Rebound Reveals Models Ireland Won't Take
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-12-02T15:59:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/iceland-bankrupting-self-to-recovery-reveals-policy-ireland-dared-not-take.html
Iceland is betting its decision two
years ago to force bondholders to pay for the banking system’s
collapse may help it rebound faster than Ireland.  Iceland’s taxpayers face a smaller debt burden than their
Irish counterparts, where the government’s guarantee of the
financial system in 2008 backfired this year when the banks came
close to insolvency. Iceland’s budget deficit will be 6.3
percent of gross domestic product this year and will vanish by
2012, compared with the 32 percent shortfall in Ireland, the
European Commission estimates.  While analysts expect Iceland’s  recession  to extend into
next year, the nation’s exporters are benefiting from a 28
percent drop in the krona against the dollar since September
2008. The decline may help the nation of 320,000 people
rebalance its economy faster than Ireland, whose euro membership
rules out a currency devaluation. With Iceland’s OMX share index
up 17 percent this year, the third-biggest gain in Europe after
Denmark and Sweden, Nobel Prize-winning economist  Paul Krugman 
says Iceland may be an example of “bankrupting yourself to
recovery.”  “The difference is that in Iceland we allowed the banks to
fail,” Iceland President  Olafur R. Grimsson  said in a Nov. 26
interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Mark Barton . “These were
private banks and we didn’t pump money into them in order to
keep them going; the state did not shoulder the responsibility
of the failed private banks.”  ‘Burning’ Question  The island’s bank debt remains with the failed lenders,
whose creditors have yet to recoup $85 billion. Deciding who
should bear the cost of banking failures is becoming a
“burning” question in Europe, Grimsson said.  “Senior bondholders in some countries must accept that
they may have to take haircuts or participate in
restructurings,” said  Michael Derks , the London-based chief
strategist at FXPro Financial Services Ltd., in an interview.
“It just doesn’t add up otherwise; senior bondholders will need
to participate. There is no avoiding it.”  Ireland and Iceland boasted growth rates in excess of 5
percent from 2005 to 2007 as they opened their economies to
international investment. Both then succumbed to an overheated
financial industry that outgrew their economies. Iceland’s
recession will be deeper this year than Ireland’s, though the
Atlantic island will overtake the euro member in 2012, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said in a
report published Nov. 18.  One Letter, Six Months  In 2009, the joke was: What’s the difference between
Iceland and Ireland. Answer: One letter and about six months.
“Almost two years on, the joke is on the jokers,” Krugman said
in a Nov. 24 column published in the  New York Times . “At this
point, Iceland actually looks a bit better than Ireland.”  Ireland’s 85 billion-euro ($111 billion) rescue package
came after weeks of negotiations during which German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  was forced to water down demands that bondholders
bear part of the cost of future bailouts, instead of heaping the
full burden on taxpayers.  Irish banks’ senior bonds rose Nov. 29, the day after the
country’s rescue was announced, as investors were spared the
prospect of sharing losses with taxpayers. Bank of Ireland Plc’s
1.47 billion euros of senior floating-rate notes due September
2011 gained almost 10 percent to 90 cents. Bondholders of
Iceland’s  Kaupthing Bank hf , by contrast, will get back about 26
cents per euro, according to brokerage  H.F. Verdref hf .  ‘Heterodoxy Is Working’  While Irish bank bonds rose, the euro fell as much as 1.3
percent against the dollar, its lowest value since Sept. 21. The
euro rose today as the European Central Bank delayed its
withdrawal of emergency liquidity measures and bought more
government bonds. The single currency gained 0.2 percent against
the dollar to trade at 1.3161 at 3:54 p.m. in London.  Krugman says Ireland’s “orthodox” response -- pushing
through austerity measures and guaranteeing bank liabilities to
stay in the euro -- contrasts with Iceland’s “heterodox”
solution -- devaluing the currency, restructuring bank debt and
putting capital restrictions in place. “Heterodoxy is working a
whole lot better than orthodoxy,” according to Krugman.  Iceland’s budget will be in surplus by 2012, compared with
Ireland’s deficit of 9.1 percent of GDP, the European Commission
estimates. Unemployment in the euro member will stay at 13.6
percent this year and next, compared with a 2011 peak of 8.1
percent in Iceland, OECD data show.  ‘Tremendous Burden’  Iceland, which started EU accession talks this year, is
experiencing a “durable recovery” that is “forecast to pick
up steam” next year, the IMF said in an  October report .
Iceland’s government says it had no choice but to let the
lenders fail. Before their collapse, the banks had debts equal
to 10 times Iceland’s $12 billion GDP.  “Trying to rescue a banking system that is too big is a
tremendous burden,” Finance Minister  Steingrimur Sigfusson  said
in an interview in Oslo. “There was not a question that we
would rescue the banks; they were far too big.”  An Irish bank failure would plunge much of the rest of the
euro region into crisis, said Valdimar Armann, an economist at
Reykjavik-based asset management company GAMMA. “The banks are
too entangled in the European web of banks,” he said.  European banks had $509 billion in claims against Ireland
at the end of June,  Bank for International Settlements  data show.
Euro-region governments will assess how far investors should
bear potential write-offs on a case-by-case basis starting in
2013, finance ministers said on Nov. 28.  Kaupthing, Landsbanki Islands hf and  Glitnir Bank hf  failed
two years ago after they were unable to secure short-term
funding. Kaupthing’s so-called winding-up committee said Nov. 26
that it’s dealing with 28,167 claims filed by creditors across
119 countries totaling $63 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar Valdimarsson  in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  