-- Michelin Awards Three Stars to Hong Kong Restaurant With Shark's Fin Soup
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-12-02T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/michelin-awards-three-stars-to-hong-kong-shark-s-fin-restaurant.html
Sun Tung Lok, a Chinese restaurant
serving shark’s fin soup, today becomes the third establishment
in Hong Kong to hold three Michelin stars.  Four more Hong Kong venues are awarded two Michelin stars:
the Cantonese restaurants Celebrity Cuisine and Cuisine Cuisine
at the Mira; 8-1/2 Otto e Mezzo, a contemporary Italian eatery;
and Pierre, the modern French restaurant of chef  Pierre Gagnaire . Another 19 eateries gain their first star.  Environmentalists say that serving shark’s fin leads to the
killing of millions of sharks each year and poses a threat to
some species.  A poll by Yahoo! Hong Kong  in October indicated
that 65 percent of Hong Kong couples planned to keep shark’s fin
soup off their wedding menus because of environmental concerns.
Among younger respondents, the number rose to 76 percent.  “We’ve awarded three stars to Sun Tung Lok because of the
quality of its Cantonese cuisine, not for its shark’s fin,”
 Jean-Luc Naret , the director of the guides, said in a telephone
interview. “We understand the controversy and we’re not trying
to promote shark’s fin, but fine Cantonese cooking.”  Two restaurants in Macau are promoted to two stars: the
Eight and Tim’s Kitchen. They join Zi Yat Heen at that level.
The Italian eatery Il Teatro gains its first star, joining
Aurora, Jade Garden, Lei Garden and Wing Lei. Robuchon a Galera
retains its position as Macau’s only three-star establishment.  The Michelin Guide Hong Kong Macau 2011 includes a total
selection of four three-star restaurants (three in Hong Kong and
one in Macau); 12 two stars (nine in Hong Kong, three in Macau);
and 53 one-star establishments (48 in Hong Kong, five in Macau).  Congee, Dumplings  The guide adds more local eateries: five with Cantonese
roast meat, three for congee rice porridge and two for
dumplings. Hong Kong’s other three-star establishments are
Caprice and Lung King Heen.  “The Michelin Guide Hong Kong Macau 2011” will be
available on Dec. 2 in Hong Kong, Macau and Southeast Asia and
from the beginning of February in Europe.  Five criteria are used for awarding stars: product quality,
preparation and flavors, the chef’s personality as revealed
through the cuisine, value for money and consistency over time
and across the menu, Michelin said. The criteria are adapted to
each type of cuisine, including Japanese cooking styles.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie . is the world’s  second-biggest tiremaker 
after Bridgestone Corp. It produced its first guide in August
1900, distributed free of charge (until 1920) and originally
intended for chauffeurs. The guide contained practical
information, including street maps and tips on using and
repairing tires. The guides are expanding internationally under
Naret and now cover 23 countries.  Michelin’s guide to France is scheduled for publication
early in March. The U.K. guide appears in mid-January. The last
volume to appear, in mid-March, is “Main Cities of Europe.”
That guide covers Copenhagen, where all eyes are on chef  Rene Redzepi  to see if his restaurant Noma gains its third star.  Naret plans to step down at the end of this year.  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writers on the story:
 Richard Vines  in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 