-- High-Frequency Traders Face European Order Limits
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-12-02T17:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/high-frequency-traders-face-eu-order-limits-more-disclosure.html
High-frequency traders face European
Union limits on the number of orders they can place, as well as
requirements to tell regulators how their computer algorithms
work.  They would not be allowed to exceed a “ratio of orders to
transactions executed” and to “notify their competent
authority” of the trading strategies they use, under draft EU
proposals obtained by Bloomberg News.  Most high-frequency trading “is done with algorithms and
regulators have to understand what’s behind them to be certain
there aren’t any embedded market abuse practices,”  Carlos Tavares , chairman of the  Committee of European Securities
Regulators , or CESR, said in a Brussels interview on Nov. 29.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the top U.S.
commodity regulator, said in October it would review algorithmic
trading and other practices such as “spoofing” and “quote
stuffing” as part of the Dodd-Frank financial legislation, the
largest rewrite of Wall Street rules since the 1930s.  The EU measures are part of an overhaul of the Markets in
Financial Instruments Directive, or Mifid, scheduled to be
published Dec. 8 by  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s
financial services commissioner.  The revamped law will also include rules on bond markets,
investor protection and dark pools, which are trading platforms
that allow investors to buy and sell securities away from
regulated exchanges so they don’t have to disclose positions.  Policy Breaches  The proposals would give a new European Securities and
Markets Authority powers to write EU-wide rules for transparency
waivers for dark-pool transactions and to notify national
regulators of policy breaches.  “My view is that the U.S. approach on dark pools is
probably the best,”  Eddy Wymeersch , the former chairman of
CESR, said in a telephone interview in Brussels. “As long as
they are limited, and don’t make up a large percentage of
trading, then nobody cares.”  The  European Parliament  voted earlier this year to
establish authorities in London, Paris and Frankfurt to regulate
banking, securities and insurance industries respectively that
would have the power to mediate between national supervisors and
write EU-wide rule-books.  The Mifid review will also include proposals to shed light
on the bond markets, requiring the publication of “post-trade
transparency data” which would “follow the same channels as
for equities,” the draft said.  Investment firms should have to tape telephone calls of
clients submitting orders, and keep the recordings for at least
three years, according to the EU document.  The step would improve “the detection of abusive and
manipulative behaviors affecting the integrity of the markets,”
the draft said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  