-- Highbridge's Dubin Sees `Extraordinary Opportunities' as CDOs Lose Favor
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   C a r o l   M a s s a r
-- 2010-12-02T20:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/highbridge-s-dubin-sees-extraordinary-opportunities-as-cdos-lose-favor.html
Hedge-fund manager  Glenn Dubin ,
manager of about $27 billion in assets at Highbridge Capital
Management, said he sees new opportunities in the market for
collateralized-debt obligations, securities blamed for some of
the biggest losses during the financial crisis.  Highbridge added a team of CDO specialists to scour the
market for the securities as other investors look to offload
them, Dubin told Bloomberg Television’s  Carol Massar  at the
Hedge Funds New York conference sponsored by Bloomberg Link.  “We think the CDO market will revitalize itself,” Dubin
said. “Looking ahead to that period in 2014, we think there
will be extraordinary opportunities as people unwind these CDOs
because, as you point out, they are moving from investment-grade
to non-investment-grade status and many institutions can’t own
them.”  Dubin said he feels “fairly constructive” about the U.S.
equity and bond markets, mostly due to the Federal Reserve’s
latest round of stimulus measures.  “The Fed has spoken loud and clear,” he said. “They’re
going to keep  zero rates  there for the foreseeable future and
their goal is to move financial assets and financial markets
higher. If I’ve learned anything in my 30-year career in
finance, it’s the old adage, which is don’t fight the Fed.”  After sitting on the sidelines earlier this week while
Ireland’s debt crisis unfolded, Dubin said he now has put “risk
on” over the last two days, meaning he’s investing in the
markets.  “Monday and Tuesday were a risk-off environment, but we
were encouraged when we saw the U.S. market activity was
actually beginning to decouple from what was happening in
Europe, which was in contrast with what happened during the
first European debt crisis in the spring,” he said, adding that
it gave his team “the confidence to increase our risk
exposure.”  Highbridge is a wholly owned subsidiary of  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. , the second-largest U.S. bank by assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com ;
Carol Massar in New York at 
 cmassar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 