-- India's Supreme Court Gives Government 10 Days to Answer Tata's Petition
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   P . S .   P a t n a i k
-- 2010-12-02T14:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/india-s-supreme-court-gives-government-10-days-to-answer-tata-s-petition.html
India’s Supreme Court gave the
government 10 days to reply to a petition from  Ratan Tata  that
seeks to prevent further disclosure of recorded phone
conversations between him and a public relations executive.  Judges in the apex court asked the home secretary,  Central
Bureau of Investigation , the tax department and other government
agencies to respond by Dec. 13 to the Tata Group chairman’s
request, which includes demands for a probe into the leaking of
some audio tapes featuring the calls, and an amendment to laws
on phone-tapping.  “Some of the audio files are personal in nature and they
should not have been published in the media,”  Harish Salve , the
lawyer for Tata, whose acquisitions of Jaguar Land Rover and
Tetley Group Plc charted India’s emergence as a global economic
power, said today. “They are unrelated to the matter under
investigation.”  Niira Radia, the public relations official whose firm
represents the Tata Group, is being investigated by India’s tax
department over allegations of tax evasion and money laundering,
court documents show. The phone taps were part of the probe.  Transcripts of Radia’s conversations with Tata and a host
of politicians, corporate leaders and journalists were published
by two Indian news magazines -- Open and Outlook -- as part of
investigations into lobbying before the 2009 reappointment of
 Andimuthu Raja  as telecommunications minister.  Raja, whose own calls with Radia have also been leaked to
the media, resigned two days before the country’s chief auditor
said in a Nov. 16 report to parliament a subsequent sale of
wireless telephony licenses at below-market rates may have
lowered government revenues by $31 billion.  Parliament Stalled  In separate hearings, the Supreme Court today criticized
Raja for ignoring advice from the law ministry and Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  over the sale. Singh’s office Nov. 20
filed an affidavit with the court rejecting allegations he had
put off bringing charges against Raja.  Opposition lawmakers have stalled parliament for three
weeks demanding a cross-party probe into the Raja episode.  It’s the second time this year that phone-tapping has
snagged Singh’s government.  In April, Outlook magazine reported that sophisticated
equipment meant to track terrorist groups had been used to
intercept and record phone conversations of leading members of
the ruling Congress party and others. Home Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram  denied ordering secret taps.  Interception of telephones is permissible under a section
of the Indian Telegraph Act once agreed by the federal home
secretary or officials heading home departments in each of the
country’s states. They are supposed to be used in the interest
of public safety or to protect the sovereignty and integrity of
the nation.  Tax Board Probe  The Central Board of Direct Taxes, which had ordered the
interception of Radia’s phone, is looking into the alleged
leaking of the tapes, Chidambaram said on Nov. 30.  Radia said in a statement last week that she and her
company Vaishnavi Corporate Communications are “complying and
cooperating” with investigating agencies and that certain
reports in the media were “baseless and misleading.”  Prashant Bhushan, a top court lawyer who is investigating
irregularities in the sale of mobile-phone airwaves in 2008,
defended the releasing of recorded conversations to the media
when the aim was to highlight failures in government policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
 P.S. Patnaik  in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  