-- Iran Says Arrests Made in Killing of Scientist, More to Follow
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-02T17:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/iran-says-suspects-held-in-killing-of-scientist-working-in-nuclear-program.html
Iran said it has detained suspects
with links to foreign intelligence agencies over attacks that
killed a physicist working on the country’s atomic program.  “With the arrests of these people, we have found new clues
to arrest other elements,” Intelligence Minister Heidar Moslehi
was quoted  as saying  today on the website of state-run Press TV.
He didn’t give details of the arrests, including the number of
people in custody or their nationalities.  The minister said the suspects cooperated with the U.S.
Central Intelligence Agency, Israel’s Mossad and Britain’s
overseas spy agency, MI6. The accusation that the U.K. had a
role in the Nov. 29 bombing that killed Shahid Beheshti
University faculty member Majid Shahriari adds to initial
accusations by Iran that the U.S. and Israel were responsible.  Earlier today, the state-run Iranian Students News Agency
quoted  Ali Akbar Salehi , head of Iran’s Atomic Energy Agency, as
saying the country is boosting security for its nuclear experts.  “We have been pursuing serious protective measures for
hundreds of our scientists and experts since last year,” Salehi
said in the report today. “We will multiply protective measures
and take other steps as well.”  International sanctions have increased pressure on Iran
over its nuclear program, which the U.S. and allies say may be
disguising weapons development. Iran says its nuclear program is
for civilian purposes, such as generating electricity.  A second blast in Tehran on Nov. 29 injured Fereydoun
Abasi, a physicist from the same university who was linked to
the nuclear program in a 2007 United Nations resolution imposing
sanctions on Iran. Another scientist was killed in Tehran in
January in an attack Iran also blamed on the U.S. and Israel.  Accusations of U.S. involvement are “absurd,” White House
spokesman  Tommy Vietor  said on Nov. 29. “We have pursued
peaceful and diplomatic means to deal with Iran’s nuclear
program,” he said. Israel has said it doesn’t comment on such
allegations.  A British Foreign Office spokeswoman in London said today
the department would respond later to a request for comment on
the Iranian comments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 