-- Ireland's Last Top-Rated Asset Bonds Placed on Negative Review by Moody's
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2010-12-02T13:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/ireland-s-last-top-rated-asset-bonds-placed-on-negative-review-by-moody-s.html
Moody’s Investors Service  placed the
last Irish asset-backed bonds that still have top ratings on
review for possible downgrade, saying that triple-A gradings are
no longer achievable for most securitizations in the country.  Moody’s put the Aaa ratings of six Irish residential
mortgage-backed bonds and one balance sheet collateralised loan
obligation on review, it said in a report today. They included
deals for Ulster Bank Ireland Ltd. and  Irish Life & Permanent
Group Holdings Plc .  “Corporate performance will deteriorate further in the
context of increasing uncertainty to Ireland’s economic
outlook,” Moody’s analysts including  Annick Poulain  in Paris
wrote in the report. “Moody’s no longer views Aaa ratings as
achievable for Irish structured finance deals except, for
example, those with very short remaining maturities.”  Ireland is effectively capping the ratings of Irish asset-
backed securities at a time when the European Central Bank is
starting to only accept higher-graded portions as collateral for
loans. The nation was bailed out with an 85 billion-euro ($112
billion) international loan package this week after the collapse
of a real-estate bubble sparked a surge in banks’ bad loans.  Moody’s cut Ireland’s top sovereign rating in July 2009 and
the nation is now graded two levels lower at Aa2 and on review
for downgrade.  Because of “the increase in the Irish Republic’s debt
burden,” the New York-based firm’s ‘most likely scenario is a
multi-notch downgrade” for the country, “leaving the rating in
the investment-grade category,” Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  