-- Israel Seeks Help From Abroad for Out-of-Control Fire
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-12-03T01:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/israel-seeks-international-aid-to-fight-forest-fire-that-killed-about-40.html
Israel called on its allies to send
firefighting equipment as a forest blaze burned out of control
near the port city of Haifa, killing about 40 people and forcing
the departure of 12,000 people from northern towns and villages.  Greece, Spain, Croatia, Turkey, France, Russia, Azerbaijan,
Cyprus, the U.K., Egypt and Romania said they would send
aircraft, Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s office said. All
of Israel’s firefighters have been mobilized, department
spokesman Hezi Levi said on Army Radio, calling the blaze the
worst in the country’s history. The army dispatched firefighters,
equipment and hundreds of soldiers.  “This is a disaster of unprecedented proportions,”
Netanyahu said. The Cabinet will meet today to discuss measures
to deal with the blaze, he said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , at a White House ceremony to
celebrate the Hanukkah holiday, began by “offering our deepest
condolences to the families and loved ones” of the victims of
the fire and pledged aid to help fight it.  The fire began around midday yesterday in the Carmel hills
outside of Haifa, home to 266,000. The exceptionally dry summer
created conditions that allowed the flames to spread quickly,
said Salman Abu Rukun, an employee of the  Israel Nature and
National Parks Protection Authority . Shimon Koren, Israeli
police northern district commander, said the possibility that
negligence or arson started the blaze was being investigated.  Lack of Retardant  The fire department ran out of flame retardants yesterday
after two months of fighting blazes, Levi said. Staff were
flying to France to bring back more, he said.  “This reinforces the sense of vulnerability of a small
country that doesn’t have the resources to deal when something
major like this happens,” said  Gerald Steinberg , a political
scientist at Bar Ilan University outside Tel Aviv.  More than 12,000 people were asked to leave their homes on
the southern outskirts of Haifa, police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said by phone. A neighborhood in Haifa was also being
evacuated, he said. The army cleared out of a base in the north,
an army spokesman said by phone, speaking anonymously by
regulation.  “I prefer that people not be at home or in bed for one
night but enjoy the rest of their lives,” Netanyahu said.  Foreign Assistance Needed  There is little chance of stopping the blaze without
assistance from abroad, Levi said on  Army Radio , describing the
fire as the worst since Israel was founded in 1948.  “We have to get ready for a long fight and I am not
talking about hours, I am talking about days,” he said. “We
were not prepared for such a large and cruel blaze. We never had
such a fire of these proportions, so strong, with so many dead
and wounded.”  Netanyahu instructed his staff to request firefighting help
from all of Israel’s allies, according to a text message to
journalists.  Most of the dead were caught in a bus carrying prison
guards, Prison Authority spokesman Yaron Zamir said on Army
Radio. The guards were on their way to help evacuate a prison
endangered by the flames, Rosenfeld said.  “The flames engulfed the bus and those who tried to escape
were burned alive,” fireman Dudu Vanunu told Channel 2
television.  Television stations broadcast footage of the mangled, gray
skeleton of the bus. Flames shooting above the tops of trees
could be seen.  About 40 people were killed in the blaze, according to Moti
Bukjin, spokesman for the Zaka rescue service, and Public
Security Minister  Yitzhak Aharonovitch .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net  or
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  