-- Italian Banks` Refinancing Costs Soar on Contagion Concern, Nation's Debt
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i ,   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   B r y a n   K e o g h
-- 2010-12-03T15:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/italian-banks-refinancing-costs-soar-on-contagion-concern-nation-s-debts.html
Italian banks face higher borrowing
costs as concern over the nation’s debt, the second-highest in
the euro zone, erodes their perceived creditworthiness.  The cost of insuring the debt of  UniCredit SpA , Italy’s
biggest bank, posted the largest monthly jump in November since
February 2009, according to data provider CMA. UniCredit’s
credit default swaps this week implied a junk rating to the
company’s bonds for the first time, data from Moody’s Investors
Service’s capital markets research group show. Swaps on Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA, the No. 2 bank, posted a record monthly increase.  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  faces a confidence vote on
Dec. 14, adding to investor concern that Italy may struggle to
finance its 1.76 trillion euros ($2.3 trillion) of debt should
his government fall. While Italian banks skirted the real estate
busts of Ireland and Spain, the crisis may drive up the cost of
refinancing at least  118 billion euros  of debt in 2011 and
squeeze profitability that is already below the region’s
average.  “Contagion fears due to the country’s high debt will
affect Italian banks’ profitability because they will pay higher
a cost of funding and will record losses on bonds they own,”
said  Stefano Girola , who helps oversee about 3 billion euros at
Banca Albertini Syz & Co. Banca Popolare dell’Emilia Romagna, a
regional cooperative bank based in central Italy, is the only
Italian lender he holds.  Customer Loans  Italian banks survived the worst financial crisis in 70
years by lending to individual and corporate clients, and
steering away from bets on markets, analysts say. About 61
percent of their assets are loans to clients, higher than
Spanish, U.K., French and German banks, according to data
compiled by ABI, Italy’s banking association.  The country’s lenders also weigh less on the economy than
banks in other European countries. Italian banks’ senior debt
represents about 20 percent of the gross domestic product, the
smallest amount among 11 nations, including the U.K., analysts
at Barclays Plc wrote in a note published on Nov. 26. Irish bank
debt is equal to about 38 percent of GDP and the debt of Spain’s
banks is 54 percent of GDP, according to Barclays.  “The banking system is a relative strength in Italy, with
a low risk profile, that’s been able to weather the financial
crisis,” said  Henry MacNevin , senior financial analyst at
Moody’s Financial Institutions group. “Banks are in good shape,
but their outlook is correlated to the economy.”  Banks Shares Underperform  Italian banks underperformed in Europe this year. UniCredit
dropped 25 percent in Milan trading, Intesa fell 32 percent and
Banca Monte dei Paschi Siena SpA slid 29 percent, compared with
the  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services  Index’s 7.6
percent decline.  Italian economic growth lagged behind the euro region for
the past decade as falling productivity eroded competitiveness.
The bloc’s third-biggest economy is unlikely to expand more than
1 percent this year and next as the recovery falters,
Confindustria, an employers’ group, said on Nov. 17.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Italian
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds widened to more than 200
basis points on Nov. 30 for the first time since 1997. Ireland’s
bailout, the euro region’s second in six months, prompted
concern that other debt-laden countries may follow.  The additional yield investors demand to own Intesa’s
senior bonds rather than the safest government debt in Europe
jumped 31 basis points in November to 178 basis points,
according to Bank of America Corp. index data. Spreads on
subordinated bonds of UniCredit surged 121 basis points to 458
basis points.  UniCredit, Intesa  Credit-default swaps on UniCredit’s senior bonds rose to
189 basis points on Nov. 30 from 139.25 on Oct. 29, data from
CMA show. Swaps tied to senior debt of Intesa rose to 173 basis
points on Nov. 30 from 122.25 basis points. The cost to insure
senior bonds of Monte dei Paschi, Italy’s No. 3 lender, jumped
78 basis points to a record 262.5 basis points on Nov. 30.  Italian government bonds rallied today and credit-default
swaps on its banks fell for a third day after the European
Central Bank increased government debt purchases to stem
“acute” tensions in financial markets. Contracts on Intesa
fell to an almost two-week low of 143.25 basis points, while
swaps tied to UniCredit debt declined to 170 basis points. The
spread on Italian 10-year bonds tightened to about 150 basis
points.  Lower Earnings Growth  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting $10 million of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to $1,000 a year.  “Higher cost of funding, lower fees and lower future loan
growth will lead to lower earnings growth,” Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst  Marcello Zanardo  said in an interview.
“The possible implementation of austerity measures to reduce
public debt could delay the expected anemic recovery and then
affect bank’s profitability.”  The average return on equity of Italy’s banks is 3.4
percent, almost half of the 6.4 percent European average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Italian banks point to the retail networks as a steady
source of funding. Lenders rely on individual investors for
about 63 percent of their borrowings, compared with a European
average of 48 percent, data compiled by ABI show. Retail
investors don’t have pricing power when buying bonds and tend to
be more stable than institutional buyers.  Retail Network  “The retail branch network is a stable and reliable source
of funding,” Intesa Chief Executive Officer  Corrado Passera 
said Nov. 9. Officials for the three biggest lenders declined to
comment for this story.  Italy’s  budget shortfall  in 2009 reached 5.3 percent of
gross domestic product and the debt is running at 116 percent of
GDP, second only to Greece. Italy’s 2011 budget plan includes
cuts totaling 13 billion euros to trim the deficit.  “I don’t like the size of Italy’s existing debt,” said
 Peter Braendle , a fund manager at Swisscanto Asset Management AG
in Zurich, which oversees about $62 billion, including UniCredit
and Intesa shares. “I am a little concerned about the higher
interest rates Italian banks face and potential writedowns.”  Intesa has the highest net exposure to bonds of Portugal,
Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain among the southern European
banks, totaling 65.1 billion euros, according to Bernstein. The
exposure represents 240 percent of its core Tier 1 capital, a
measure of financial strength, and 9.6 percent of total assets,
according to Bernstein.  S&P Outlook  That compares with UniCredit’s 40.3 billion-euro exposure,
or 103 percent of core Tier 1 and 4.2 percent of total assets,
according to the analysts. For both banks, more than 96 percent
of the exposure is to Italian debt.  Of the about 50 Italian banks rated by Standard & Poor’s,
40 percent have a negative outlook and 50 percent have a stable
outlook. The rest are being monitored.  Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Huw van Steenis  warn that
some Italian banks may have too little capital to sustain
potential losses. In a note to clients on Dec. 1, Morgan Stanley
advised clients to avoid Monte dei Paschi di Siena and  Banco
Popolare SC  because of rising concerns over Italy’s debt and
their “weaker capitalization.”  “We expect the European sovereign crisis to cast a long
shadow over the European periphery where deleveraging is still
the base case,” the Morgan Stanley analysts said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net 
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 