-- Liverpool Is Among Five Teams to  Advance to Europa League Round of 32
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-12-02T22:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/liverpool-is-among-five-teams-to-advance-to-europa-league-round-of-32.html
Three-time champion Liverpool was
among five teams to reach the round of 32 in soccer’s Europa
League.  Besiktas, Dynamo Kiev, Sparta Prague and Villarreal also
qualified for the knockout stages of Europe’s second-tier club
competition. The top two from each of the four-team pools
advance to the round of 32, where they’re joined by the eight
third-place teams from the elite Champions League.  Liverpool drew 1-1 at Steaua Bucharest to qualify from
Group K. Steaua remains second in the group, two points ahead of
Napoli and Utrecht, which tied 3-3.  Besiktas claimed the second place from Group L by defeating
CSKA Sofia 2-1. Porto, which had already qualified, was a 3-1
winner at Rapid Vienna in the other group match.  Dynamo Kiev advanced from Group E with a 4-1 win over BATE
Borisov, which had already qualified. AZ Alkmaar and Sheriff
drew 1-1 in the other game in the group.  Sparta Prague moved on from Group F with a 2-2 draw at
Palermo, which finished the game with nine men. Already
qualified CSKA Moscow remained perfect in five matches by
beating Lausanne 5-1 in the other game.  Villarreal beat Dinamo Zagreb 3-0 to clinch a place from
Group D. PAOK tied 1-1 with Brugge to move into second place,
one point ahead of Dinamo.  The race in Group J will also go down to the final game
after Dortmund beat Karpaty Lviv 3-0 and Paris Saint-Germain
defeated Sevilla 4-2. PSG tops the group with 11 points, Sevilla
has nine and Dortmund has eight.  Manchester City, Lech Poznan, Bayer Leverkusen, Sporting
Lisbon, Zenit-St. Petersburg, Stuttgart, Young Boys, PSV
Eindhoven and Metalist Kharkov have also qualified for the round
of 32. The final round of group matches will be played Dec. 15
and 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 