-- Ivory Coast Election Commission Says It Is `Still Working' on Vote Results
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2010-12-02T07:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/ivory-coast-election-commission-says-it-is-still-working-on-vote-results.html
Ivory Coast’s election commission
said it was still tabulating ballots from the country’s Nov. 28
presidential runoff, missing a key deadline amid calls from
international groups to announce a result.  The commission is “not ready” to release any figures,
spokesman Baba Coulibaly told reporters outside the Abidjan
headquarters of the agency, less than an hour after a deadline
passed that was meant to see the outcome announced within three
days of the vote. Coulibaly said the results may be announced
later today.  Only votes of Ivorians overseas have been given so far. The
election was meant to unite  Ivory Coast , the world’s top cocoa
producer, which remains divided between a rebel-held north and
government-controlled south, eight years after a military
uprising.  President  Laurent Gbagbo  is trying to extend his decade in
power and faces a challenge from former Prime Minister  Alassane Ouattara . Both candidates traded accusations of fraud following
the vote. The European Union’s observation mission in the
country said Nov. 30 that any irregularities on election day
weren’t enough to affect the outcome.  Yesterday, the EU and the United Nations urged the
commission to respect the midnight deadline and release the
results. Agence France-Presse reported yesterday that missing
the deadline may mean the country’s Constitutional Court would
be given the power to certify, or not, the results. The news
agency said the court was headed by a Gbagbo loyalist.  Cocoa futures for March delivery lost $49, or 1.7 percent,
to settle at $2,758 a metric ton in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pauline Bax  and  Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 