-- Japan, U.S. to Start Week-Long Joint Military Drills Amid Korea Tensions
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-02T08:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/japan-u-s-to-start-week-long-joint-military-drills-amid-korea-tensions.html
China criticized planned military
exercises by more than 40,000 Japanese and U.S. troops as an
obstacle to easing tensions on the Korean peninsula, and
reiterated its call for increased diplomatic efforts.  “Brandishing of force cannot solve the issue,” Chinese
Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu said at a regular briefing
in Beijing today. “Some are playing with knives and guns while
China is criticized for calling for dialogue, is that fair?”  The maneuvers are the latest show of deterrence following
North Korea’s Nov. 23 shelling of a South Korean island
that killed four people. Japan and the U.S. joined South Korea
in condemning the attack, rejecting China’s call for talks and
urging the government in Beijing to rein in its ally.  South Korea will send military observers to the drills for
the first time, in a signal that North Korea’s provocations are
tightening U.S. military and political alliances in the region.  Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  said South
Korea’s participation was “an important point from the
perspective of promoting cooperation among the three
countries.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will host Japan’s
Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  and South Korean counterpart  Kim Sung Hwan  on Dec. 6 to discuss regional security.  The week-long exercise beginning tomorrow has no link to
any “existing or perceived political or geographical situation,
nor is it directed at any nation,” U.S. Lt. Colonel Kenneth
Hoffman, an Air Force spokesman, said in an e-mailed message.  George Washington  Fresh from maneuvers in the Yellow Sea with South Korea’s
navy, the aircraft carrier USS George Washington will join a
force of about 400 aircraft and 60 warships. Drills will include
responding to ballistic missile attacks on Pacific islands, the
 Joint Staff  of the Japan Self-Defense Forces said in a
statement.  China’s ties with North Korea “have witnessed significant
progress this year,”  Wu Bangguo , a member of the standing
committee of China’s Politburo, said yesterday, according to a
 statement  on the website of the Communist Party. Wu pledged to
strengthen those links in his third meeting this year with  Choe Tae Bok , a key aide to North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il .  China has “much influence and therefore much
responsibility,” Admiral  Michael Mullen , chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, said at a forum of the Center for American
Progress in Washington yesterday. “We need China to step up.”  Stalled Negotiations  Chinese opposition has stalled  United Nations  Security
Council negotiations condemning the shelling and North Korea’s
expanding nuclear program.  Wang Jiarui, the head of the Chinese Communist Party’s
International Department, which helps carry out the country’s
policy toward North Korea, yesterday met Deputy Secretary of
State James Steinberg in Washington, Xinhua News Agency
reported.  North Korea last week confirmed it has a uranium-enrichment
facility with thousands of centrifuges, which it said was
intended for civilian use. The country is under UN  sanctions 
because of previous atomic tests and concerns it is developing
nuclear weapons.  South Korean National Intelligence Director  Won Sei-hoon 
yesterday told lawmakers that North Korea may be planning
another attack, Yonhap News reported.  Artillery Drills  South Korea’s military may carry out further artillery
drills next week similar to those that sparked the North Korean
shelling, according to Yonhap News, which cited government
officials it didn’t identify. An official at the Joint Chiefs of
Staff and another at the Defense Ministry said today that no
decision has been made. Both requested anonymity, citing
government policy.  The North said the shelling was a response to “military
provocation” after the South fired into waters that it claims
as its own. Two soldiers and two civilians died in the barrage,
which shattered the windows in a school and torched houses in
the fishing community and military base.  North Korea’s state-run news service said the government
urged the South to call off exercises in the area and warned of
a military response to infringement of its “inviolable
territorial” waters. The North doesn’t recognize the maritime
border laid out after the 1950-53 Korean War.  China on Nov. 28 proposed “emergency consultations” with
negotiators from the two Koreas, Japan, Russia and the U.S. to
defuse tensions. Negotiations among the six countries aimed at
getting North Korea to abandon its nuclear program have been
stalled since April 2009.  “The talks we’re proposing aren’t a formal meeting, so
this shouldn’t be difficult for anyone,” Yu said, adding that
Russia supported the proposal. “Only when dialogue begins can
there be the possibility of solving problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  