-- Japan Approves Google-Yahoo Japan Accord; Dismisses Rakuten's Concerns
-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 2010-12-02T09:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/japan-fair-trade-commission-approves-google-yahoo-japan-deal.html
Japan’s Fair Trade Commission
approved a local web-search partnership between  Yahoo Japan
Corp.  and Google Inc., dismissing concerns raised by Japanese
lawmakers and  Rakuten Inc.  that the deal could hurt competition.  The alliance isn’t anticompetitive, the antitrust watchdog
said in a statement in Tokyo today.  The decision clears the way for Yahoo Japan to use Google’s
search and advertising technology from as early as this year.
The agreement, announced in July, frees the operator of Japan’s
most-visited Web portal from having to develop its search
technology and may help it in mobile search as handsets equipped
with Google’s Android operating system become more popular.  “Competition between Google and Yahoo Japan, as well as
others in the online advertising market, will remain vigorous,”
 Yoshito Funabashi , a Tokyo-based Google spokesman, said in a
telephone interview today.  Masaki Hanyu , a spokesman for Yahoo
Japan, said by phone the company plans to advance in its
partnership with Google as planned.  A group of Japanese opposition lawmakers today urged the
FTC to investigate the deal, saying the agreement may reduce
competition. This follows a similar request in October by
Rakuten, a Japanese Internet shopping site operator.  “There is a danger that the tie-up will impede a healthy
growth and development of not only the search industry but other
domestic Internet services,” Hirotoshi Kato, a spokesman for
Tokyo-based Rakuten, said in a telephone interview.  Yahoo Japan  climbed 2.1 percent to 31,300 yen at the 3 p.m.
close of trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, while Rakuten slid
0.2 percent to 66,500 yen on the Jasdaq Securities Exchange. The
Nikkei newspaper reported the FTC decision earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  