-- Japan Tobacco Raises 80 Billion Yen From Bond Sale at Lower Relative Yield
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2010-12-03T03:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/japan-tobacco-said-to-sell-80-billion-yen-of-bonds-at-lower-relative-yield.html
Japan Tobacco Inc.  raised 80 billion
yen ($955 million) from bonds at a lower relative yield than it
paid before a record increase in domestic tobacco taxes.  The sale by the maker of Mild Seven and Winston brand
cigarettes included 40 billion yen of five-year, 0.533 percent
notes priced to yield 10 basis points more than similar-maturity
government debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Tokyo-based company paid a 24 basis-point spread on similar-
maturity 1.128 percent bonds in May 2009, the data show.  Japan, the world’s fourth-biggest cigarette market, raised
tobacco duty 40 percent in October to discourage smoking and
raise money. Japan Tobacco, which controls 65 percent of its
home market, acquired U.K.-based Gallaher Group in 2007 and
Japanese frozen-food producer TableMark Co. in 2008, helping
 reduce its dependence  on a shrinking domestic cigarette market
to 31.1 percent of net sales as of March 31 from 44.7 percent
three years earlier, according to a company statement.  “Japan Tobacco knew this would come so they’ve diversified
their business,” said  Nobuto Yamazaki , a fund manager who helps
oversee 1 trillion yen at DIAM Asset Management Co. in Tokyo,
who smokes 20 Mild Seven a day and who doesn’t own the company’s
bonds. “I don’t think the non-smoking trend will ruin them.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Japanese corporate
bonds instead of similar-maturity government debt fell to 28
basis points as of yesterday from 38 basis points on Jan. 4,
according to an  index  compiled by Nomura Securities Co.  Narrowing Spreads  The spread on Japan Tobacco’s 100 billion yen in 1.128
percent bonds due 2014 narrowed to 14 basis points yesterday
from 24 basis points at the start of the year, according to
Japan Securities Dealers Association prices.  “We think the deal will contribute to improve the
stability of our financial situation,” Japan Tobacco
spokeswoman Mahoko Tsuchiya said in a phone interview today.
“Interest rates are low now so the timing is appropriate.”  Japan Tobacco’s revenue rose 8 percent to 3.3 trillion yen
in the six months ended September while operating profit
increased 22 percent, according to its regulatory filings. The
company expanded market share in countries including Russia,
Turkey and Italy even as domestic sales declined and the strong
yen cut profitability, it said.  Moody’s Investors Service said on April 29 that Japan
Tobacco’s investment-grade Aa3 rating won’t be affected by the
tax increase, citing its “growing overseas operations.”  Japan Tobacco’s sale today also included 20 billion yen of
seven-year, 0.841 percent bonds and the same amount of 10-year,
1.3 percent notes, all priced at a 10 basis-point spread,
according to Bloomberg data.  Nomura Securities, Mizuho Securities Co. and Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co. arranged the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
 Emi Urabe  in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 