-- Jon Gruden Says He Won't Take Miami Job, Will Stay With ESPN Through 2011
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-02T18:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/jon-gruden-says-he-won-t-take-miami-job-will-stay-with-espn-through-2011.html
Jon Gruden  said he is staying in his
role as a television analyst for ESPN’s “Monday Night
Football,” ending any chance that the Super Bowl-winning coach
would leave to lead the University of Miami.  “I’m committed to ESPN,” Gruden said on a conference call
with reporters. “I’m very thankful to have the job that I have
and I’m eager to try and get better at it.”  Miami, a member of the Atlantic Coast Conference, had
expressed interest in hiring Gruden following the Nov. 27 firing
of  Randy Shannon  as coach.  “Jon’s contract with ESPN runs through the 2011 season,
he’s made a commitment to us, and in the contract there’s a
commitment to us,”  Norby Williamson , an executive vice
president for  Walt Disney Co .’s ESPN, said on the conference
call. “He won’t be having any conversations to entertain a
college or pro offer through the 2011 season.”  Both Gruden and Williamson said they’d take no further
questions on the subject.  Candidates remaining on Miami’s list include Mississippi
State’s  Dan Mullen , Stanford’s  Jim Harbaugh , Connecticut’s  Randy Edsall , Arizona’s  Mike Stoops  and Utah’s  Kyle Whittingham , the
Miami Herald  reported .  Gruden, 47, has spent the past two years as a National
Football League analyst on “Monday Night Football.”  He had a 98-81 record as an NFL coach and led the Tampa Bay
Buccaneers to a Super Bowl title during the 2002 season, his
first year with the team after replacing  Tony Dungy . Known for
his intensity on the sidelines, Gruden also coached the Oakland
Raiders for four seasons, going 40-28.  College Coaches  Although Gruden’s last college coaching experience was as
an assistant at the University of Pittsburgh in 1991, he would
have brought a championship resume to Miami, which won the most
recent of its five national titles in 2001. The Hurricanes’ last
two coaches -- Shannon and  Larry Coker  -- were promoted from
coordinator jobs and the Herald said some trustees were wary of
again following that route.  Shannon, 44, was fired after the Hurricanes lost to the
University of South Florida to finish with a 7-5 record,
bringing his record to 28-22 in four seasons. A member of the
Hurricanes’ 1987 national championship team, Shannon’s .560
winning percentage was the worst by any Miami coach since Lou
Saban went 9-13 in 1977-78. Shannon was 0-2 in bowl games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 