-- Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Step Up Hunt for Millionaires After Basel Change
-- B y   W a r r e n   G i l e s
-- 2010-12-03T13:17:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/jpmorgan-deutsche-bank-battle-for-rich-as-capital-rules-change.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Deutsche Bank
AG  and  Citigroup Inc.  are hiring bankers who cater to
millionaire clients as more stringent capital rules reduce
returns from investment banking.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by market value, plans to
increase its wealth management staff in Europe, the Middle East
and Africa by as much as 20 percent a year until 2013.
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank is bulking up its Asia business
after buying Sal. Oppenheim Group, Germany’s biggest independent
private bank, nine months ago, said spokesman  Klaus Winker .  Leaders for the Group of 20 nations approved plans last
month at a meeting in Seoul to more than double capital
requirements for banks after the industry posted losses of more
than $1.3 trillion from 2007 through 2009. The change provides
renewed impetus for banks to focus on less risky and less
capital-intensive units such as overseeing assets for wealthy
clients, said  Cedric Tille , a professor at the Graduate
Institute in Geneva.  “It’s a natural reaction for banks to go more and more
toward fee-based advisory activities in response to capital
requirements,” said Tille, a former economist at the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York. “If they make a mistake, it’s only
the clients who get upset.”  Citigroup and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., both based in New
York, also are building up their so-called wealth management
divisions as Basel III rules are set to curb the risk-taking
that led to a seizure of credit markets in 2008.  Wealth Management Uptick  Citigroup, which received a $45 billion taxpayer bailout in
2008 after losses on subprime mortgages and collateralized debt
obligations, plans to double wealth management advisers in North
America to about 260. Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer
 Lloyd Blankfein  said Nov. 16 that “it’s important to get
bigger” in private wealth management.  “We’ve seen a massive uptick in the number of banks
seeking to participate as global wealth managers,”  John Cryan ,
chief financial officer of UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank,
told bankers in London on Sept. 30.  The new Basel proposals will reduce the profitability of
operations such as underwriting bond sales, lending to hedge
funds and proprietary trading, said Professor  Christoph Lechner 
of the Institute of Management at the University of St. Gallen
in Switzerland. The lower-margin wealth management business will
help plug part of the gap left by investment banking, he said.  ‘Less Risky’  “Private banking offers a more stable cash flow over the
economic cycle and requires less capital,” Lechner said. “But
it’s tricky because investment banking is incredibly lucrative
when the markets are running nicely, in a way that private
banking can never be.”  As capital requirements increase, the companies’ return on
equity -- a measure of profitability -- will decline. UBS’s
investment banking unit reported a return on equity of 10.5
percent in the first nine months of the year, compared with 24
percent for the wealth management division.  Barclays Capital, the securities unit of London-based
Barclays Plc, would have lost money over the last decade under
Basel III capital rules that force banks to set aside more
capital to cover their riskiest units, UBS analysts said in a
Nov. 15 note to clients. Barclays plans to reduce the proportion
of pretax profit generated by its investment bank to 33 percent,
down from two-thirds in the first half of this year.  ‘Other Peoples’ Money’  While private banks need capital to cover loans to wealthy
customers, client assets are considered low-risk because they
are “other peoples’ money,” said Bob Fawl, managing partner at
Boston-based Basis Point Group LLC, an industry consulting firm.
“The risk is supposedly born by someone else and the bank acts
as an agent.”  Wealth management generates stable revenue that complements
the less predictable fees earned from investment banking, said
 Francois Reyl , CEO of Reyl & Cie., a Geneva-based bank with
about 4 billion Swiss francs ($4 billion) under management.  “If you’re going to build a one-stop shop with high
profits and risky behavior, then you need a private banking
engine for the recurring income and its stickiness,” Reyl said.  While wealthy customers withdrew a net 251.6 billion francs
from Zurich-based UBS in the 27 months through June, the unit’s
only pretax loss was 166 million francs in the fourth quarter of
2008. Most of UBS’s more than $57 billion of writedowns and
losses during the credit crisis -- second only to Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc among European lenders -- came from its
investment bank.  ‘More Competitive’  The fragmentation of the global wealth market, which
according to London-based Scorpio Partnership has about $16.5
trillion under management, means there is room for specialized
bankers, said  Benoit Dumont , chairman of JPMorgan’s Geneva-based
Swiss unit. JPMorgan aims to double client assets in Switzerland
over the next five years by focusing on wealthy families.  “The market is becoming more competitive, but no one
dominates so there’s something for everyone,” said Dumont, who
is targeting customers with at least $25 million to invest.
“The good news for this business is there’s a new millionaire
created every minute.”  The number of households worldwide with at least $1 million
of investable assets, excluding primary residences, rose to 10
million in 2009 from 8.6 million a year earlier, according to a
report in June by Merrill Lynch and Capgemini.  DnB NOR ASA, Norway’s largest bank, is seeking to expand
its market share of wealthy clients in the world’s second-
richest country per capita, said Paal Karstensen, head of
private equities at DNB Markets.  Cultural Differences  “We’re increasing our focus on high net worth individuals
in Norway, because we see that it’s a client group that’s
becoming increasingly important for us,” Karstensen said in a
phone interview from Oslo today. “There’s significant potential
to grow.”  While private banking is less capital intensive, there are
“cultural” differences that make it difficult for larger banks
headed by investment bankers to enter the market, said  Jacques de Saussure , senior managing partner at Pictet & Cie., Geneva’s
biggest wealth manager.  “The key factors are human qualities and the ability to
invest for the long term,” said de Saussure. “You can’t buy
human relationships.”  Still, clients are more concerned than ever by capital
strength ratios when considering who to bank with, said Jean-
 Pierre  Cuoni, chairman of EFG International AG, which managed
87.5 billion francs on behalf of clients at the end of June.  “All of a sudden it has become an issue,” said Cuoni.
“It’s a bit of a competitive edge if you can say today, we have
19 percent while the other guy has only 13 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Warren Giles  in Geneva at 
 wgiles@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  