-- JPMorgan Sued for $6.4 Billion Over Madoff Fraud by Liquidating Trustee
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-12-04T01:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/jpmorgan-sued-for-6-4-billion-over-madoff-fraud-by-liquidating-trustee.html
The trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff’s  former investment firm sued  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  for
$6.4 billion over claims the bank aided and abetted the
imprisoned con man’s fraud.  Irving H. Picard , the lawyer appointed as trustee by a New
York bankruptcy court, said in a statement that he sued JPMorgan
yesterday seeking $1 billion in fees and $5.4 billion in
damages.  “JPMorgan was willfully blind to the fraud, even after
learning about numerous red flags surrounding Madoff,”  David J. Sheehan , counsel to Picard, said in the statement. “JPMC was at
the very center of that fraud, and thoroughly complicit in it.”  Any money recovered from JPMorgan will be returned to
Madoff’s victims on a pro rata basis, said Picard, who has so
far recovered about $1.5 billion for Madoff creditors.  Picard’s complaint “blatantly distorts both the facts and
the law in an attempt to grab headlines,” JPMorgan, the second-
biggest U.S. bank, said yesterday in a statement. “JPMorgan did
not know about or in any way assist in the fraud orchestrated by
Bernard Madoff.”  JPMorgan , based in New York, said it has assisted Picard in
his investigation of Madoff’s firm and called his claims
“irresponsible and over-reaching.”  ‘XYZ Corp.’  Picard filed a separate complaint yesterday seeking $3.14
million from an unidentified company. The complaint, against
“XYZ Corp.,” was filed under seal in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan. The docket entry for the lawsuit listed the demand as
“$3135671000,” or $3.14 billion. In an e-mail today, Picard
provided the amount of the demand and said that the court record
was being corrected.  The lawsuit against JPMorgan, which Picard called Madoff’s
“primary banker,” was filed under seal in the same court,
according to the trustee’s statement.  JPMorgan  “has designated virtually all of their
information as confidential,” Picard said. “We intend to move
to have the complaint made public as soon as possible.”  The suit is the second-biggest filed by Picard in the
Madoff bankruptcy, after a $7.2 billion claim he filed against
investor  Jeffry Picower  in May 2009. Picower died in October
2009.  $15.5 Billion  In addition to the Picower suit, Picard filed at least 18
other court claims seeking the return of $15.5 billion paid to
Madoff friends and family, feeder funds, favored investors and
others.  On Nov. 23, Picard sued  UBS AG  for at least $2 billion,
claiming the Swiss wealth-management firm also helped Madoff in
his fraud. UBS said it bears no responsibility for Madoff’s
crimes. Three days later, Picard sued 40 people who were former
Madoff employees or are relatives of Madoff or his wife,  Ruth Madoff .  Over the past week, Picard has sued hundreds of so-called
“net winners,” investors who withdrew more from their Madoff
accounts than they invested. Picard, supported by a ruling in
the case from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland , claims such
fictitious profits must be returned to the bankruptcy estate and
paid out to all of Madoff’s victims with valid claims.
Yesterday, he sued entities of Paris-based  BNP Paribas  to
recover the $160 million they allegedly got from Madoff’s fraud.  Picard is suing for the return of fictitious profits earned
in the last six years.  Dec. 11 Deadline  Today, Picard filed a complaint for $182.4 million against
Trotanoy Investment Co., a fund managed by Access International
Advisors Ltd. and entities of Hyposwiss Private Bank Geneve SA.
The fund’s managers ignored warnings that the Madoff investments
were fraudulent, according to the complaint.  Picard faces a Dec. 11 deadline for filing suits to recover
false profits.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence in a North
Carolina federal prison after admitting he directed the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history. Madoff was arrested and his firm, New
York-based Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, forced
into bankruptcy when news of the fraud became public in December
2008.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
balances. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  The case is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co., 10-ap-4932,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 