-- Kenya Must do More to Bring Violence Perpetrators to Justice, Annan Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-12-02T09:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/kenya-must-do-more-to-bring-violence-perpetrators-to-justice-annan-says.html
Kenya’s government is doing “too
little” to bring to justice perpetrators of post-election
violence in 2008 in the East African nation, former United
Nations Secretary-General  Kofi Annan  said.  Annan, who led negotiations to form a coalition government
that ended the violence, said today that impunity for those who
instigated the clashes remains “a major problem.”  “Let me stress that bringing to justice those responsible
for the post-election violence is essential to help Kenya heal
its wounds and prevent such crimes from being committed again,”
Annan told reporters in Nairobi, the capital. Kenya is due to
hold general elections in 2012.  Allegations of vote-rigging in a December 2007 presidential
vote sparked two months of ethnic clashes that killed about
1,500 people and forced 300,000 to flee their homes. Under the
accord Annan mediated, President  Mwai Kibaki  and his political
rival,  Raila Odinga , formed a government and agreed to reform
the police and courts, combat graft, and pass a new
constitution, which was enacted in August.  Annan, who is in Kenya to attend a conference assessing the
government’s progress in implementing those reforms, praised
Odinga and Kibaki.  “The two leaders have set an example by consulting
regularly and jointly setting out policy on important national
issues,” Annan said. “In the remaining period before the
elections, this must be continued and extended across the entire
government.”  ICC Investigation  Kenya’s parliament blocked several attempts to establish a
local tribunal to try the alleged instigators of the violence.
That prompted the  International Criminal Court ’s chief
prosecutor,  Luis Moreno-Ocampo , to open an investigation into
the case. He has said he will present charges against as many as
six Kenyans this month.  Moreno-Ocampo met Kibaki and Odinga yesterday to discuss
the court’s probe, the Kenyan presidency said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 