-- Kingfisher Sees Improved Fourth Quarter as U.K. Sales Drop Beats Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-12-02T09:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/kingfisher-u-k-sales-drop-beats-estimates-improved-fourth-quarter-seen.html
Kingfisher Plc , Europe’s largest
home-improvement retailer, reported a smaller drop in sales at
its B&Q shops than analysts had anticipated and said it expects
revenue to improve in the year’s final quarter.  Third-quarter sales at U.K. and Irish stores open at least
a year fell 4.2 percent from the same period a year earlier,
when discounts to clear inventory boosted sales, the London-
based company said today. That was ahead of a company-compiled
consensus estimate of a 7 percent decline.  Chief Executive Officer  Ian Cheshire  said early signs are
“encouraging” for sales of festive products like 44.98-pound
($70.25) pop-up Christmas trees and tinsel. Kingfisher, which
also owns France’s Castorama chain, is assessing its next phase
of growth including expansion into India and Brazil and enhanced
online and mobile offerings to drive future earnings.  “The fourth quarter has started well and expectations are
for B&Q” comparable sales to rebound to 4 percent growth, said
 John Guy , an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. He has
a “buy” recommendation. Guy had anticipated a like-for-like
sales decline of 5.1 percent in the U.K. and Ireland.  Finance Director  Kevin O’Byrne  expects consensus estimates
for annual pretax profit will “nudge up” by 10 million pounds
to 660 million pounds, he said on a call to journalists today.  Kingfisher rose 0.5 penny, or 0.2 percent, to 238.3 pence
at 9:41 a.m. in London trading. The  shares  have climbed 3.8
percent this year, compared with the 29 percent decline of Home
Retail Group Plc, the owner of B&Q’s main U.K. rival Homebase.  Retail Profit  So-called total retail profit, which excludes one-time
costs, interest and taxes, rose 8.2 percent to 240 million
pounds. Earnings at the  international  division, which includes
Poland, China, Spain, Russia, a joint venture in Turkey and a
stake in Germany’s Hornbach, increased 18 percent. The
unprofitable Chinese unit is expected to at least break-even
next year, according to the retailer.  “We can count on the assumption Q4 will be better”
Cheshire said. “We’re expecting a tougher six months in the
U.K., but looking for some recovery in the second half.”  B&Q, the U.K.’s largest home-improvement chain, is
dependent on the housing market, where a recovery is faltering
as the government plans for the biggest spending squeeze since
World War II. U.K.  mortgage approvals  fell to an eight-month low
in October, a sign that the market slowdown is intensifying.  The U.K. home-improvement market will likely continue to
decline between 2 percent and 3 percent next year, Cheshire
said. He expects B&Q can outpace the market through the addition
of its Tradepoint counters which target professional builders,
enhanced products ranges and services.  France, Poland  “Sentiment is likely to remain depressed by the outlook
for big-ticket expenditure and housing transactions,
particularly in the U.K.,”  Simon Irwin , an analyst at Liberum
Capital, said before the release. He rates Kingfisher “hold.”  Kingfisher’s third quarter covered the 13 weeks to Oct. 30.
Market conditions in France are “reasonably positive” while
Poland is looking more stable, Cheshire said.  The retailer also announced that  Clare Chapman , director
general of workforce at the NHS and a former director at Tesco
Plc, has joined as a non-executive director.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 