-- Kinnucan Won't Keep Quiet After Refusing to Wear Wire for Trading Probe
-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2010-12-02T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/kinnucan-won-t-keep-quiet-after-refusing-to-wear-wire-for-trading-probe.html
For 11 years,  John Kinnucan  was a
stock analyst, digging information out of low-level contacts in
the computer industry and selling it to clients.  Then in October two FBI agents dropped by his three-story
house and home office in Portland, Oregon, threatened to arrest
him for “engaging in improper research” and asked him to
secretly tape a conversation with a fund manager they were
targeting, he said in an interview. Kinnucan, who wouldn’t name
the manager, refused.  Now Kinnucan is a defender of stock research and critic of
U.S. authorities as they hunt for evidence of insider trading.
Money managers that received subpoenas won’t say what
information the government is seeking. U.S. Attorney General
 Eric Holder  declined to elaborate on the investigation, which
has included raids on three hedge funds.  Kinnucan, meantime, has made two appearances on cable
television and has written an opinion piece for the New York
Times DealBook assailing the federal government for abusing its
powers by cracking down on analysts who make a living providing
legitimate research to investors.  His outspokenness may come with a price.  “He’s violating rule No. 1: don’t do anything that might
upset the prosecutors,” said Andrew Stoltmann, a securities
lawyer in Chicago. “When someone talks to the FBI, he usually
goes as far underground as possible. He’s not helping himself.”  Kinnucan, a 53-year-old married father of two, has done the
opposite, airing the details of his encounter and questioning
what he sees as a change in regulatory policy at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Larger Issue  “It is a larger story at work here about the proper role
of the SEC and its mandate as I understand it to provide
guidance to the investment community,” Kinnucan said in an
interview. “The Justice Department evidently would like to
retroactively criminalize research activities which have been
complicitly condoned by the SEC for years. If I don’t raise my
voice, nobody will because everyone has gone underground.”  If Kinnucan’s account is accurate, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation may have made a mistake by threatening him, said
Nathan Burney, an attorney who once worked for Manhattan
District Attorney  Robert Morgenthau .  “It seems like a tactical blunder to go to someone like
this if you don’t have him under your thumb,” he said. “He
called their bluff.”  Richard Kolko , an FBI spokesman in New York, declined to
comment.  Fund Experience  Before he opened his one-man research operation, Broadband
Research LLC, in 1999, Kinnucan was a money manager himself. He
started a hedge fund at Strome Susskind Investment Management
LP, which ran a fund incubator in Los Angeles in the 1990s.
Strome helped Kinnucan set up a fund in 1996, Kinnucan said. It
closed two years later.  “He saw himself as someone who could get a good scoop on
technology companies,” founder  Mark Strome  said in an
interview. “He had a little bit of a chip on his shoulder,
like, ‘I’m the brains of the operation and no one understands
me.’ ”  The fund was small, Strome said. “I don’t think it got
critical mass.”  Kinnucan said he left because the fund, with about $5
million in assets, wasn’t generating enough trading commissions
for Strome to cover the cost of his office space.  Geophysics Degree  A native of Lake Forest, Illinois, an affluent suburb of
Chicago, Kinnucan earned a degree in geophysics from the
University of Alaska in Fairbanks, then did graduate work in
computer science at the University of Texas in Austin, he said.
From there, he set out to trade his own money in Portland, where
he met his wife in 1992.  “I was right 90 percent of the time,” Kinnucan said of
his early trading record. An acquaintance heard about his
success and told him he should contact Crabbe Huson Group Inc.,
a local mutual-fund firm.  Kinnucan called and got Jim Crabbe, one of the founders, on
the line. He went in and met with the investment team at the
firm. Asked what stocks he liked, he said  International Business
Machines Corp. , which was out of favor with investors because
many believed that its mainframe computer business would be
supplanted by smaller servers.  Crabbe took his advice and bought IBM, Kinnucan said.  Crabbe Huson Co-Manager  After working for the firm as consultant for $5,000 a
month, Kinnucan said he was hired as co-manager along with
Crabbe of the Crabbe Huson Special Fund in June 1994, when it
had $60 million. Kinnucan shorted many stocks in the last half
of the year as the market declined, then covered those positions
in December, just before the prices rallied, he said. In a short
sale, a trader borrows shares and sells them, betting the market
will decline, then buys them on the market, returns them and
keeps the difference as a profit.  The fund rose 12 percent in 1994, according to
Institutional Investor magazine, which profiled Kinnucan in July
1995, and assets swelled to $800 million. Colleagues called him
“Nuke,” Kinnucan said.  Kinnucan said Crabbe didn’t like the attention he was
getting, and prohibited him from talking to the press. Kinnucan
erred, he said, when  Netscape Communications Corp.  sold shares
to the public in August 1995.  ‘Egregiously Overpriced’  He was quoted in several Bloomberg News stories that week,
once saying that Netscape “probably sets a new point on the
scale of egregiously overpriced merchandise.”  Kinnucan also said at the time that his fund had gotten the
right to buy 5,000 Netscape shares from Morgan Stanley, which
arranged the sale along with Hambrecht & Quist LLC, and dumped
them just after they started trading, reaping a $220,000 profit.  “The attitude of the investment banks is that these are
the payback to their best institutional or mutual-fund clients,
like us or Fidelity Investments,” Kinnucan said at the time.
“It’s a little game of mutual back-scratching.”  Crabbe fired him after the stories appeared, Kinnucan said.
Crabbe didn’t return messages left at a phone number listed in
his name in Portland.  Kinnucan moved to Los Angeles, he said, and in June 1996,
started his hedge fund at Strome Susskind. When that closed, he
went to work for  Brad Peery Inc. , a broker-dealer in Mill
Valley, California, where he worked for less than a year.  “John was hired and didn’t last very long,” said Brad
Peery, the company’s founder. Peery closed his company in 2003
after 20 years in business.  Kinnucan started Broadband Research in 1999.  Channel Checkers  Analysts like Kinnucan try to provide nitty-gritty details
on the technology industry: which products are being shipped,
and how much; whose semiconductors are being used in the latest
mobile phones; whose software has glitches that are causing
problems for its users.  Kinnucan said he gets his information by talking to the
“foot soldiers and worker bees” at companies. The calls are
known as channel checks, and the results can be used by
investors to piece together a broader view of a product, company
or trend.  “I know what’s important,” Kinnucan said. He gets paid a
quarterly retainer by fund managers that get his reports.  About 90 percent of the time, his contacts aren’t at the
company that he’s researching, Kinnucan said. Rather, they are
people who do business with it.  Expanding on Galleon  The U.S. crackdown on insider trading began last October
with the arrest of Raj Rajaratnam, founder of Galleon Group LLC,
a New York-based hedge fund. The probe, led by the U.S.
Attorney’s office in Manhattan, initially focused on fund
managers and corporate executives, with 14 people pleading
guilty. Rajaratnam has denied wrongdoing and faces trial next
month in Manhattan federal court.  The investigation expanded to analysts and so-called
expert-network firms with the Nov. 24 arrest of Don Ching Trang
Chu, an executive at Primary Global Research LLC, a Mountain
View, California-based company that connects investors with
industry specialists who provide insight into a specific market.
Chu facilitated the leaking of inside information from
technology companies to a hedge-fund manager cooperating with
prosecutors, according to an FBI complaint.  Dan Charnas , a spokesman for PGR, and Chu’s attorney  James DeVita  have declined to comment.  Clients Named  Kinnucan, who purchased his house in an upscale part of
Northeast Portland for $1.5 million in 2006, said his business
is ruined. All his clients deserted him after he told them in an
e-mail that the FBI had visited, something he was contractually
obliged to do, he said.  Three investment funds that have gotten subpoenas for
information were clients of his, Kinnucan said: Wellington
Management Co. in Boston, Janus Capital Group Inc. in Denver and
SAC Capital Advisors LP in Stamford, Connecticut, which is run
by billionaire art collector Stephen Cohen.  Janus received an inquiry and plans to cooperate fully, the
company said in a Nov. 23 statement. Officials at Wellington and
SAC declined to comment.  Kinnucan said other clients include mutual fund MFS
Investment Management in Boston and hedge funds Citadel LLC in
Chicago and Maverick Capital Ltd. in Dallas. One manager that
Kinnucan named directly is  Paul Wick  at Columbia Management, a
unit of Ameriprise Financial Inc. in Minneapolis. Wick said he
had no comment.  John Reilly , a spokesman for MFS, and  John McCafferty , an
attorney for Maverick, said the firms hadn’t received any
requests for information from the government. Citadel, run by
Ken Griffin, declined to comment.  Funds Searched  The raided funds were Diamondback Capital Management LLC in
Stamford, Connecticut; Level Global Investors LP, in Greenwich,
Connecticut; and Loch Capital Management in Boston.  Diamondback received a subpoena and was told by the
government it isn’t a target of the probe, according to a letter
to investors obtained by Bloomberg News. The warrant appears to
be focused on a portfolio manager, who was put on leave, and a
former employee, the Nov. 29 letter said.  Level Global said in a letter to investors that executives
met with the U.S. Attorney’s office on Nov. 23, and that it
wasn’t a target of their investigation. Loch Capital didn’t
return calls seeking comment.  Kinnucan said the FBI agents -- whom he described as
“suits” in his  interview  on the CNBC cable network, haven’t
been back since their Oct. 25 visit.  “It does seem like the FBI is on a witch hunt,” said
Strome, who currently manages only his own money. “Maybe John
Kinnucan will be the hero against Big Brother.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony Effinger  in Portland, Oregon, at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  