-- Kramer Favors Citigroup as Federal Reserve Batters Shorts With Purchases
-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-02T18:16:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/kramer-favors-citigroup-as-federal-reserve-batters-shorts-with-purchases.html
Betting against U.S. stocks may be a
losing strategy given the Federal Reserve’s attempt to boost
economic growth by driving down Treasury yields, according to
hedge-fund manager  Orin Kramer .  The Fed said last month that it will buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries to boost growth, while maintaining its
pledge to keep interest rates low for an “extended period.”
Since Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  suggested in August that he would
use the technique known as quantitative easing, the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has surged 16 percent.  “They believe that by pushing down the risk-free rate, they
can push people into risk assets and push up the value of risk
assets,” Kramer, general partner of Boston Provident Partners
LP and the former chairman of New Jersey’s pension fund, said
today at the “Hedge Funds New York” conference hosted by
 Bloomberg Link . “If you’re short, the fact that the Fed is
working against you and the fact that most of the world is
somewhat short makes it a little more dangerous to be short.”  Speaking at the same event,  Mark Yusko  of Morgan Creek
Capital Management LLC, which allocates almost $10 billion to
hedge funds, said the Fed’s attempt to stimulate the economy
through quantitative easing is a “terrible idea.”  “Low interest rates is a sign of economic weakness, not
strength,” said Yusko, who is president of Morgan Creek in
Chapel Hill, North Carolina. For money managers, “if you avoid
QE2 and you don’t pay attention to the impact it’s going to have
on your investments, watch out for that iceberg.”  Banks, Metals  Kramer said banks will benefit from the Fed’s program of
buying Treasuries, which drives down yields used as benchmarks
for mortgages and other instruments. Yusko favors metals
producers.  Since the central bank announced the second round of
quantitative easing, measures of banks and raw-materials
producers have outperformed the S&P 500, while so-called
defensive companies, including utilities, telephone companies
and health-care providers, have lagged behind the market.  Yusko anticipates high demand for raw-materials and energy
producers, and he sees the  dollar  weakening because of the Fed’s
injection of liquidity into the financial system.  “Liquidity creates a wave,” said Yusko. “We’re becoming
the carry-trade currency. You’re going to borrow in dollars
because we don’t charge any money for it. The money is going to
commodities. You’re going to see the biggest commodity bubble in
history.”  Notre Dame Graduation  Yusko, whose wife is giving birth in five weeks said when
they take their child to “graduation at Notre Dame in the class
of ‘33, the dollar will not be the world reserve currency.”  Kramer said he likes shares of  Citigroup Inc. , the New
York-based bank that required a U.S. government bailout.  “You take a bank like Citi, most of their earnings come
from developing countries,” he said. “People used to like Citi
in the early ‘90s because they said they have this consumer
footprint globally that nobody can replicate. Despite everything
that Citi’s been through, that’s actually still true.”  Matthew Lindenbaum , money manager and principal at Basswood
Capital Management LLC, said he likes Citigroup and also New
York-based  Morgan Stanley . He spoke at the same event.  “Another financial name I would mention is Morgan Stanley,
which is part of my theme of recapitalization, normalization and
consolidation,” he said. “They are positioning themselves as
sort of the anti-Goldman Sachs. They want to be an investment
bank for the customer. They are not trading their own book.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nick Baker  in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 