-- Berlusconi Races to Clear Naples Trash as Government Faces Confidence Vote
-- B y   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i   a n d   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 2010-12-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/naples-garbage-mess-gets-berlusconi-s-attention-as-his-government-teeters.html
Tons of trash are piling up in the
streets of Naples, leaving Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  racing to sort out the mess before Dec. 14 confidence
votes in parliament that may topple his government.  Berlusconi, who won re-election in 2008 after vowing to end
the trash crisis in the Italian port city, yesterday reiterated
promises to solve the current emergency before lawmakers decide
the fate of his conservative coalition. European Union
inspectors last month warned it may take “several years” to
permanently resolve the garbage issue.  “He didn’t keep his promise” in 2008, said Loredana
Velona, a 45-year-old medical analyst in Naples. “It was easy
to collect the trash and send it off to other cities, anyone
could have done that. The hard part is solving the problem by
building incinerators.”  Berlusconi, 74, is fighting for his political life against
 Gianfranco Fini , a former ally who now leads the challenge to
the premier’s government. The turmoil has buffeted declines in
its debt, with investors  demanding  158 extra basis points of
yield to hold Italian 10-year bonds relative to German bunds.
The spread reached a euro-era high of 210 basis points Nov. 30.  Naples  has suffered periodic garbage emergencies since the
mid-1990s as landfills overflowed and authorities were slow to
build more dumps and incinerators. The situation has sparked
protests by residents and encouraged organized crime to seek
temporary contracts to remove the garbage, according to
 Legambiente , an environmental group.  “I was once again able to note how the Naples problem
damages Italy’s good name and image on the international
scene,” Berlusconi, who’s traveled to Naples twice over the
last month, said in an e-mailed note yesterday after returning
from a summit of the Organization for Security and Cooperation
in Europe in Astana, Kazakhstan. He said he was confident that
“the emergency will be resolved as soon as possible.”  Vesuvius Dump  The latest controversy arose in early October when
residents of nearby Terzigno protested plans to expand dumping
of trash at a site outside their town. Television networks
broadcast violent skirmishes between police and residents, who
tossed Molotov cocktails and torched trash-collection trucks.
Scores were injured and newspapers, including Corriere della
Sera, estimated damages at more than 20 million euros.  The Naples garbage situation is another “factor that
exacerbates” Italy’s political mess, said  Raffaele De Mucci , a
professor of political science at Luiss Universtiy in Rome. “It
proves that wild promises don’t pay if you can’t keep them.”  While tensions in Terzigno eased after the government
agreed to take over management of a garbage dump on Mt.
Vesuvius, the volcano whose eruption more than 2,000 years ago
destroyed ancient Pompeii, they soon flared in Naples.  Local Mafia  Trash began piling up in the streets of the city where the
Camorra, the local mafia, “has a hand in every vital organ of
the economy,” according to Michele Buonomo, president of
Legambiente in the region of Campania, whose capital is Naples.  “The dumps in Campania can’t take all the trash from
Naples,” he said in an interview. “Of 2,000 tons of trash
produced per day in Naples, 600 tons can’t find a place to be
dumped. This is our problem.”  Various governments have failed to resolve the situation
after assuming responsibility for waste disposal in Naples more
than 15 year ago. Berlusconi’s current government relinquished
that role at the end of 2009 and oversight of trash collection
was given last month to regional authorities.  30,000 Tons  At the peak of the 2008 outbreak, authorities estimated
that there were 30,000 tons of trash in the streets of Naples
and the surrounding region. To remove it, Berlusconi adopted
emergency measures that included transporting by train some of
the trash for disposal in other regions as well as in Germany,
and making it a crime to block garbage from entering dumpsites.  “Berlusconi’s plan two years ago was built on a fragile
foundation,” said Paolo Giacomelli, a Naples city official who
oversees garbage collection. “It blew up on him because
citizens of Terzigno complained about how the dump was being
managed.”  The shortage of landfill space won’t be completely resolved
for three to four years when two new incinerators come on line,
Berlusconi said on Nov. 26 at a Naples press conference.  “It will still take several years to set up the
infrastructure needed to ensure that all the waste produced in
Campania -- 7,200 tons per day -- is adequately managed and to
prevent further waste crises,” EU Environment Commissioner
 Janez Potocnik  said in a Nov. 26  statement .  He said that “the danger to human health and damage to
the environment” from the waste “will continue.”  Berlusconi has blamed local officials for the latest mess,
saying they failed to assume responsibility for the issue when
the central government pulled out. Naples Mayor  Rosa Russo Jervolino , a member of the opposition Democratic Party, declined
to comment, her spokesman said.  “After K2, after Mont Blanc, after Everest, there’s the
Naples trash mountain -- the tallest one of all,” said Alfredo
Fedele, 65, a Naples pensioner. “Two years on, we’re still in a
state of emergency.” 