-- New York's Nassau County Borrows to Pay Property-Tax Refunds: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-12-02T21:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/nassau-county-may-pay-more-yield-to-fund-tax-return-muni-credit.html
Nassau County , the New York City
suburb that’s cutting costs and weighing asset sales to close a
$343 million budget  gap  next year, may pay higher yields on
bonds to cover property-tax refunds.  The Long Island county’s record of borrowing for such
payments led the state to create an oversight board, the  Nassau
County Interim Finance Authority , a  decade ago . In September,
the panel  said  it opposed using debt to finance refunds. Nassau
plans to sell $125 million in taxable Build America Bonds and
tax-exempt securities tomorrow, its biggest long-term borrowing
since August.  “I think the whole market is, and should be, concerned
about selling debt to pay real-estate tax refunds,” said
 Anthony Shields , a principal in the public-finance department at
Williams Capital Group in New York. “They already have the
highest taxes in the country and can’t raise them any higher.”  The median annual property  tax  on homes in Nassau last year
was $8,940, the second-highest among U.S. counties after
Westchester County, also in New York, according to the  Tax
Foundation  in Washington.  Citigroup Inc. , which won today’s bidding for the issue, is
 offering yields of 4.2 percent on the $53 million in insured
tax-exempts maturing in October 2025, about 0.71 percentage
point above a comparable maturity  Bloomberg Valuation index .  “They’re going to pay more than they did in August,”  Fred Yosca , head of fixed-income trading at BNY Mellon Capital
Markets LLC in New York, said yesterday.  Extra Yield  On Nov. 29, more than $1 million of Nassau’s bonds due in
October 2025 traded at 4.11 percent, or 0.58 percentage point
higher than a Bloomberg index of top-rated AAA bonds. When the
bonds sold Aug. 11, their 3.57 percent yield was 0.42 percentage
point more than the  index .  County Executive  Edward Mangano  and NIFA Chairman  Ronald Stack  couldn’t be reached for comment. Stack is a New York-based
managing director in the public-finance department of  Wells
Fargo & Co .  The August sale, which the county used to pay retirement
incentives for workers, according to its budget director,
included a 1.47 percent yield for debt due in October 2015 and
2.74 percent for October 2020.  Mangano prepared a  budget  for the year beginning Jan. 1
that avoids raising property taxes, relying instead on $100
million of cost cuts, $60 million of concessions by unions, and
$80 million by eliminating its obligation to pay local
governments for their property-tax refunds. The property tax
legislation faces legal challenges, Moody’s Investors Service
said in a Nov. 4 report.  Moody’s Cut Rating  Moody’s cut the county’s bond rating one grade to A1, its
fifth highest, and said the outlook was negative. Standard &
Poor’s rates the bonds A+, also fifth highest and Fitch Ratings
assigned an AA- grade, fourth highest.  The county expects to borrow  $364 million  for 2011 and 2012
to pay for property tax refunds owed homeowners, according to
the oversight group’s report. The borrowing would provide budget
relief “but simultaneously create a long term expense for
future taxpayers,” it said.  Still, there’s no reason to expect the oversight authority
to declare control over the county’s finances, Budget Director
Jeffrey Nogid and Comptroller George Maragos said in telephone
interviews.  The county’s budget is set to be balanced this year,
Maragos said, and next year’s plan also matches spending and
revenue, he said. County officials have assured the authority of
their intention to cut spending if needed, he said.  For  NIFA  to assume control, a deficit of at least 1 percent
must exist or be “imminent”, Maragos said.  Lease Securitization  About $55 million of revenue from securitization of leases
or property sales is possible to fill gaps that could emerge in
the budget, Nogid said.  At a quarterly meeting of the oversight body and county
officials yesterday, Mangano offered another $300 million of
savings that were possible if needed to balance the budget
“including more securitization of leases and land sales,” he
said.  Maragos and Nogid declined to identify what property might
be sold, and said the meeting wasn’t public. Nogid said property
sales and issuance of bonds backed by county leases on office
buildings were being considered.  The finance authority said it was  “disturbed”  by the
prospect of asset sales to fund operating expenses. It said the
county is also considering privatization of its sewer system.  Today’s issue also included a $71.7 million sale of taxable
Build America debt, also won by Citigroup, which offered yields
of 7.1 percent on securities due in October 2035. That’s about  
0.91 percentage point  above the average yield for the federally
subsidized debt, according a Wells Fargo Build America Bond
index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  