-- New York City Actuary Predicts Cut in Pension Fund's Assumed Return Rate
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-12-02T21:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/new-york-city-actuary-predicts-cut-in-pension-fund-s-assumed-return-rate.html
New York City’s chief actuary joined
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and Comptroller  John Liu  in predicting
that the biggest U.S. city will lower the assumed return on its
 $106.2 billion  pension fund from the current 8 percent rate.  Robert North , who is evaluating changes to the actuarial
assumptions of the city’s five retirement plans, said he’ll
present recommendations to their boards in mid-2011. He declined
to say what the new rate might be. Any change in the assumed
rate of return on the city’s investments must be approved by the
state Legislature.  “We anticipate the proposed package is likely to result in
significantly greater employer costs,” North, 60, said in a
telephone interview today. “We may end up with some phase-in or
deferrals.”  New York City will likely pay $8.3 billion for pensions in
the next fiscal year, Budget Director  Mark Page  said two weeks
ago, a 19 percent increase. The jump is partially due to the
city shifting $600 million of its pension contributions from
this year into the fiscal 2012, which starts July 1.  Combined with slower growth in tax revenue and rising
health-care costs, the city may have to fire 6,200 workers,
Bloomberg said Nov. 18.  National Scope  Public-pension funds from  New York  state to  Illinois  are
cutting their expected returns amid market losses and the
longest recession since the Great Depression. New York state’s
$132.8 billion retirement fund lowered its target to 7.5 percent
from 8 percent, while the Illinois State Employees’ Retirement
System cut its rate to 7.75 percent from 8.5 percent.  In the 10 years ending in June 2009, New York’s pensions
returned 2.09 percent, according to the city. The funds returned
14.2 percent in the fiscal year ended June 30 of this year.  North said New York would likely need the state Legislature
to approve a temporary extension of the current actuarial
interest-rate assumption beyond the end of this fiscal year
because an independent actuary, the Hay Group, won’t finish
reviewing the city’s assumptions until the first half of 2011.  The city is reviewing forecasts on demographics, interest
rates, wages, inflation and the future value of the benefits,
said North. That will determine how much New York will have to
contribute to the retirement funds, he said. The plans cover
334,000 city employees and 237,000 retirees and beneficiaries.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  