-- New Jersey Hires Law Firm Patton Boggs to Challenge Canceled Tunnel Bill
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-12-02T20:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/new-jersey-hires-law-firm-patton-boggs-to-challenge-canceled-tunnel-bill.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
hired Washington-based law firm Patton Boggs LLC to contest a
$271 million bill for money the U.S. government spent on a
commuter-rail tunnel he canceled.  Patton Boggs  will argue the state’s case that the federal
charge is selective enforcement and that other jurisdictions
have canceled transportation projects without being forced to
repay expended funds, Christie’s office said today in a
 statement . No decision has been made on whether to sue the
agency, according to  Michael Drewniak , Christie’s spokesman.  The Federal Transit Administration told  New Jersey Transit 
Executive Director  James Weinstein  the state had until Dec. 24
to repay the money. Christie, a first-term Republican, killed
the $8.7 billion Hudson River tunnel Oct. 27, saying the state
couldn’t afford $5 billion in potential extra expenses.  “New Jersey and its taxpayers should not be responsible
for these costs, which is why our administration is making every
effort to fight the FTA’s unreasonable demands,’” Christie, 48,
said in the statement. “I simply cannot allow our state to be
taken advantage of any further over this highly flawed
project.”  The tunnel funds came from a combination of federal
programs under which New Jersey would have received the money
for other uses, Christie said. The completed work has “ongoing
value” for future regional transportation projects, he said.  Potential Strategies  Stuart Pape , the managing partner of Patton Boggs, said
it’s too early to discuss potential strategies for the
challenge.  “We’re going to be working with the New Jersey Transit
folks to get our arms around the facts,” Pape, 61, a native of
Fort Lee, New Jersey, said by telephone from his office in
Washington.  The firm was chosen after a “rigorous competitive
process,” Christie said in the statement.  New Jersey’s Law and Public Safety Department reviewed
“multiple firms” based on cost and their merits before
selecting Patton Boggs, Drewniak said by e-mail. The firm will
be paid $485 an hour to mount the challenge, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  