-- New Zealand's Dairy Farms May Face a Second Year of Drought, Minister Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-12-02T02:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/new-zealand-dairy-farms-may-face-second-drought-agriculture-minister-says.html
New Zealand’s largest dairy-farming
region may face a summer drought for a second year, slowing the
nation’s economic recovery and pushing up global  milk prices .  The risk of a significant drought in Waikato, the largest
milk-producing province, and Northland is “very high,” with
little rain forecast for the next month, Agriculture Minister
 David Carter  said today in an interview from Christchurch.  “We are heading for extremely dry conditions, probably
drought,” Carter said. “It’s not hard to get a significant
drought in New Zealand making a difference to GDP.”  Lower farm production could curb New Zealand’s exports,
which make up about 30 percent of the $125 billion economy, and
may push up global milk prices. Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.,
the largest dairy exporter, collected 4.3 percent less milk in
the season ended May 31 than a year earlier because farmers
halted milking early amid extremely dry conditions in Waikato.  “We’re monitoring the weather conditions closely,” a
Fonterra spokesman said in an e-mailed response to questions
from Bloomberg. “While much of the country has had less rain
than usual over the last six weeks, it’s too early to know what
impact this will have on total milk production for the season.”  Whole-milk powder prices climbed to a two-month high at
Fonterra’s latest  GlobalDairyTrade  auction. Spot contract prices
rose 1.3 percent, while prices for the period from March to May
surged 4.1 percent.  Farm Profits  “We wonder if the weather risk is starting to be priced
into the auction prices,” said  Doug Steel , markets economist at
Bank of New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “The longer-term
contracts well into next year are where the price rises occurred.
I would suspect a little of that risk premium going into those
longer-dated contracts now.”  New Zealand’s economy expanded 0.2 percent in the second
quarter, as the nation makes a sluggish recovery from the worst
recession in three decades, which ended in the first quarter of
2009. Growth is forecast to be 2.5 percent this year and 2.6
percent in 2011, the central bank said in September.  Steel declined to speculate on how much a drought might
slow economic growth next year. As well as milk production,
drought can disrupt livestock slaughter as farmers reduce stock
levels earlier than normal, he said.  “If it doesn’t dent production itself it will put upward
pressure on feed costs and profitability on farms is certainly
going to decrease,” he said.  Soil Moisture  Soil moisture conditions in the Waikato province are at
levels normally expected in January and temperatures were the
highest in 100 years, Stewart Wadey, provincial president for
 Federated Farmers Inc.  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “I was in the Waikato yesterday and just flying in and out
you can see how dry the conditions are there,” Carter said. The
government will be monitoring reports to assess whether to
declare a medium-scale drought event that will trigger support
measures for affected farmers, he said.  “The effect of a single drought is insidiously long on any
farming family,” he said. “I’ve farmed through droughts in
Canterbury. They affect you for a long time. To have two in a
row is devastating.”  New Zealand is experiencing a La Nina weather pattern,
which is characterized by high early season temperatures,
according to the  National Institute of Water and Atmospheric
Research . Its forecasts to January suggest below-average
rainfall and soil moisture levels are likely on the nation’s
South Island and average rainfall in the north.  “It’s certainly a lot drier than normal north of Taupo,”
said Steel, referring to a central North Island lake. The risk
of a drought “is starting to turn a little bit into reality and
as for January, February it remains an unknown but the signs
aren’t looking that good,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  