-- News Corp. Offers Remedies in European Antitrust Review of BSkyB Takeover
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-12-02T17:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/news-corp-offers-remedies-in-eu-antitrust-review-of-bskyb-bid.html
News Corp.  has offered remedies to
the European Union in a bid to win antitrust approval for its
takeover of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc , the regulator
said on its website.  The European Commission said it extended the deadline for
its probe until Dec. 22, without giving any details of the
company’s offer to remove possible competition concerns.  News Corp., attempting to gain from the steady subscription
business of Britain’s biggest pay-TV operator, asked the EU on
Nov. 3 to approve its proposed 7.8 billion pounds ($12.1
billion) bid for the 61 percent of BSkyB that it doesn’t already
own. BSkyB in June rejected the initial 700 pence a share offer,
saying it was too low. The companies are seeking regulatory
approval before a new offer is made.  “It would seem more likely that News Corp. would agree to
various trading restrictions on how it acquires content, or
indeed other companies in the same space, than any sell-off,”
said  Richard Broughton , a senior analyst at IHS Screen Digest.
“In past deals involving large media conglomerates in the TV
business, restrictions which prevent cross-selling of services
are often put in place.”  News Corp. said it “continues to engage constructively
with the European Commission” and declined to comment on its
offer to regulators.  Amelia Torres , a spokeswoman for the
commission and  Robert Fraser , a spokesman for BSkyB didn’t
immediately return calls and e-mails seeking comment.  U.K. media regulator Ofcom is carrying out a separate probe
into whether the takeover by the owner of four of the biggest-
selling U.K. newspapers would give too much media control to
 Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. It has a Dec. 31 deadline to
recommend the start of a Competition Commission probe on how the
deal might affect the British media landscape.  News Corp.’s Sky Italia agreed to restrictions on acquiring
rights on other media platforms and limits on its ability to
start new pay-TV services to win regulatory approval to merge
with rival pay-television operator Telepiu, Broughton said.  Last year, News Corp. raised its stake in Sky Deutschland
AG, Germany’s biggest pay-TV service, to more than 45 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 