-- Nicor Is Said to Seek Buyers, Work With JPMorgan, Sending Shares Higher
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-12-02T22:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/nicor-gas-utility-is-said-to-seek-buyers-with-jpmorgan-running-the-auction.html
Nicor Inc. , the Chicago-area natural-
gas utility with a market value of about $2 billion, is seeking
a buyer, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is running the auction and started
contacting potential buyers two to three months ago, said the
people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the
talks are private. Some utility companies and infrastructure
funds were approached and decided the price for Nicor was too
high to submit a bid, some of the people said.  Nicor’s natural-gas distribution unit, Nicor Gas, has more
than 2 million customers in northern Illinois and the Chicago
suburbs. The utility has limited growth opportunities because
large population increases are not expected in the region, said
 Andrew Pusateri , an analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis.  Nicor Gas provided almost 80 percent of the company’s 2009
sales, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nicor rose $3.11, or 7.2 percent, to $46.63 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Nicor Chief Executive Officer  Russ Strobel , 58, is pursuing
a sale as the Naperville, Illinois-based company’s shares trade
at 15 times estimated 2011  earnings . That multiple compares with
about 12 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Utilities Index.  The company’s relatively high valuation may make it hard to
find a buyer, Mark Barnett, an analyst with Morningstar Inc. in
Chicago, said in a telephone interview.  “It is hard to see who would be excited by the prospect of
taking them out,” said Barnett, who rates Nicor shares three
stars out of five and doesn’t own any.  Pension Funds  The most likely bidders would likely be private equity or
pension funds seeking the steady flow of income produced by
Nicor’s regulated gas distributor, Barnett said.  Integrys Energy Group, which owns Peoples Gas, a natural-
gas utility in Chicago, would make “the most sense” out of
publicly traded utility companies that might have an interest
because of cost savings achieved by combining service
territories, Barnett said.  Annette Martinez, a spokeswoman for Nicor, said she
couldn’t comment. Bonnie Johnson, a spokeswoman for Integrys
Energy, also declined to comment.  In addition to the gas utility, Nicor owns Tropical
Shipping, a freight business operating in the Bahamas and
Caribbean.  Nicor shares closed at $43.52 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading , valuing the company at about $2
billion. The company had about $729 million of net debt as of
Sept. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 