-- Nigerian Armed Forces Attack Three Camps Used by Militant Leader Togo
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2010-12-02T12:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/nigerian-armed-forces-attack-three-camps-used-by-militant-leader-togo.html
Nigerian troops attacked three camps
used by a militant leader in the  Niger River  delta as part of a
government offensive against armed groups threatening exports
from Africa’s biggest oil producer.  “The places we attacked yesterday were positively
identified militant camps,” Colonel Timothy Antigha, a military
spokesman, said today by phone from the oil hub of Port
Harcourt. “The operation is still ongoing.”  The action is focused on camps operated by John Togo and
his fighters near the town of Ayakoromor to the west of the
southern delta, Antigha said. Togo’s Niger Delta Liberation
Force group confirmed the attacks in a statement yesterday.  The crackdown follows a recent surge of attacks by
militants in the region who are demanding a greater share of the
delta’s oil riches, after a period of relative calm when
thousands of fighters disarmed under a government amnesty plan.
Armed raids in the delta cut about 28 percent of Nigeria’s oil
exports between 2006 and 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  Nigeria is the fifth-largest source of U.S. oil imports.
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. , Chevron Corp., Total
SA and Eni SpA run joint ventures with the state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90 percent of the
West African nation’s oil.  Artillery Fire  The Niger Delta Liberation Force yesterday said in an e-
mailed statement that the military killed more than 100 unarmed
people with bombs and artillery fire on Ayakoromor. The group
said the raid didn’t affect its camps, where fighters armed with
anti-aircraft weapons were waiting.  Antigha, the military spokesman, denied that civilians were
targeted.  “If there are casualties, it must be those we’re looking
for,” he said. “A civilian has no business in a camp where
there are machine guns, anti-aircraft weapons and dynamite.”  The main armed group in the region, the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta, which claimed responsibility
for recent attacks on the oil industry, said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement that it was planning new raids.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 