-- TNT Shifts Strategy to Spin Off Express-Delivery Division, Focus on Mail
-- B y   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-12-02T16:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/tnt-will-spin-off-express-delivery-unit-to-focus-on-regular-mail-delivery.html
TNT NV , Europe’s second-biggest
express-delivery company, announced plans to reverse course and
spin off the business while retaining the smaller mail division.  TNT rose 8 percent in Amsterdam trading, the biggest jump
in more than two years, after saying current  investors  will be
offered new stock in the express unit next year. The postal
operation will retain a 29.9 percent stake until some financial
questions are resolved, Hoofddorp, Netherland’s based TNT said
in a  statement .  Analysts estimated earlier this year that the express unit
was worth about 6.25 billion euros ($8.3 billion) following
investor speculation that  United Parcel Service Inc.  or FedEx
Corp. may seek to buy the division. TNT, which had a monopoly on
letter deliveries in the Netherlands until last year, started an
internal separation of the express and postal businesses in
April with the aim of selling the latter.  “This is quite an important change of strategy,”  Andre Mulder , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, said today. “It’s
harder to sell the mail unit because of the strikes and
influence from the government. You have a bigger chance selling
the express division.”  TNT  rose  1.51 euros to 20.35 euros at the 5:30 p.m. market
close, the largest gain since Nov. 24, 2008. That narrowed the
stock’s  decline  this year to 5.4 percent, valuing the company at
7.7 billion euros.  Mail Unit’s Sales  Mail operations  contributed  41 percent of TNT’s annual
sales of 10.4 billion euros in 2009. The unit accounted for
73 percent of group operating profit of 648 million euros last
year. That compares with a record $8.5 billion loss following a
3.5 percent drop in mail volume at the U.S. Postal Service in
the year through Sept. 30.  “We’re starting a new chapter,” Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Bakker  told journalists in London today. “We’ve concluded
the synergies between the two businesses were limited.”  Current shareholders of TNT will be offered stock in the
new express company after they agree on the transaction at a
meeting in May. Separate listings will follow “around June 1,”
Bakker said. The express company will wield the TNT brand, while
the mail operation will adopt another name that has yet to be
decided, he said.  Any sale of the express unit to a third party would depend
on shareholders’ agreeing to the split-up arrangements first,
said  Ernst Moeksis , a TNT spokesman.  Bakker, 49, will step down when the separation is complete,
TNT said. The mail service will be run by  Harry Koorstra , while
 Marie-Christine Lombard  will oversee the express company.  CEO’s Strategy  Bakker, who took his current post nine years ago, sold
TNT’s logistics operations in 2005 and divested the freight-
management division a year later. Bakker returned part of the
proceeds to investors through  share buyback programs  while also
investing in the express division’s network growth and
reorganizing mail operations. The CEO declined today to say what
he plans to do when he leaves TNT.  “Lately, he lost some of his stardom,” said  Corne van Zeijl , who helps manage about 40 billion euros at SNS Asset
Management, including TNT stock. “If, five years ago, you had
asked 10 investors who the best Dutch CEO is, half of them would
have said: Peter Bakker.”  The mail operator will retain the holding in the express
business to prevent a negative-equity  valuation  of 900 million
euros that would result if the companies separated fully, TNT
said. The companies must also work out financing of  debt  and
Dutch pension-fund deficits under the new structure, it said.
The postal company will seek to sell the stake “as soon as
possible,” Bakker said.  ‘Growth’ Stock  The express company “will be a growth stock,” Bakker
said. “Mail will be a value stock with a focus on solid
dividend streams for investors.”  TNT traces its roots back to the founding of the
Netherlands’ postal service in 1752. Increased competition in
the domestic market has eroded prices while the volume of
letters handled has fallen as customers increasingly use e-mail.
Postal  workers  went on strike in November to protest against
plans to cut 11,000 jobs.  Market Share  Speculation about a bid for TNT by  FedEx  or UPS, the
largest U.S. package shippers, has repeatedly surfaced for years
as a way for the companies to expand in Europe. TNT controls 18
percent of express deliveries on the continent.  “UPS will not discuss rumors or speculation about mergers
or acquisitions,” said  Norman Black , a spokesman for the
Atlanta-based company.  “As a matter of policy, we do not comment regarding
corporate development matters,” said  Jess Bunn , a spokesman for
Memphis, Tennessee-based FedEx.  The TNT postal company will focus on countries where it’s
already active, including Germany and the U.K., Bakker said. The
CEO said he was “positively surprised” by comments from the
U.K. government that it’s ready to sell the state-owned Royal
Mail Group Ltd., which TNT had considered trying to buy earlier.  “If it comes up as an opportunity again, we will look at
it again,” Bakker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 