-- More Gulf Oil Debacles Ahead, So Stop Wasting Energy: Interview
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2010-12-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/oil-accidents-guaranteed-in-gulf-get-over-drilling-in-alaska-interview.html
BP ’s Deepwater Horizon rig exploded
on April 20, killing 11 men, and, over the next three months,
200 million gallons of oil gushed into the Gulf of Mexico.
That’s enough to fuel the country for six hours.  Peter Lehner ’s “ In Deep Water ” is the first book about
what went wrong during the worst ecological disaster in U.S.
history.  Executive director of the  Natural Resources Defense
Council , which has been fighting to safeguard the earth and its
biosphere for four decades, Lehner says the likelihood of
another accident in the Gulf is 100 percent, and that now’s the
time to wise up and stop squandering oil.  We spoke in his office at the NRDC in New York.  Lundborg: After the fatal explosion, what was lowest point
of the spill for you?  Lehner: Realizing the difference in scale. The spill itself
was 40 miles out to sea, and we were in a plane looking down at
it. We’re seeing a lot of oil and the pilot tells us we’re still
100 miles from the spill site.  At the end, the slick covered 600 miles of shoreline and
had an area the size of Oklahoma or bigger.  Hoses, Diapers  Lundborg: And at the other end of the scale?  Lehner: Later on that day, I was down in a little boat
watching these guys try to clean the spill up with hoses four
inches across and diapers. It was a complete mismatch.  There’s the same difference in scale between the enormity
of BP and the powerlessness of the shrimpers and fishermen who
are out of a job.  Lundborg: What’s the long-term impact?  Lehner: No one knows.  Lundborg: You say that though there will be more spills in
the future, they can be minimized.  Lehner: We can try to spread the spills out, make them
smaller, more controllable.  On the Deepwater Horizon rig, BP made a lot of choices and
almost in every instance it reduced the cost, cut the time and
increased the risk.  Lundborg: Wasn’t the government, specifically, the Minerals
Management Service, supposed to be watching out for us?  Defanged Watchdogs  Lehner: That will certainly be remembered as one of the
highlights of agency failure.  But really it was the result of a multi-decades process to
denigrate expert agencies, to take away their authority to
protect us, to defang the watchdogs.  Lundborg: Why don’t people care more that the energy
companies are setting the agenda for this country?  Lehner: In the last year, dirty energy companies and their
allies spent $500 million dollars trying to defeat clean energy
legislation.  If you spend that much making people afraid, misleading
them as to the truth and hiding what’s going on, you can
convince the American public other things are more important.  Lundborg: We’re really falling behind in terms of
developing clean tech?  Lehner: I’m sad for my children. We have a political debate
going on that’s idiotic about whether or not climate change
really exists, and meanwhile the rest of the world is running by
us and laughing at us.  Lundborg: Is the next battleground the Arctic?  Dark, Dangerous  Lehner: Drilling in the Gulf has many challenges, but it’s
calm, warm water and the days are long.  Imagine if there were a spill like this on the north coast
of Alaska where bad weather is minus-40 degrees, there are 20-
foot waves, freezing water and icebergs. Plus it’s pitch dark
for half the year.  We just shouldn’t be drilling where the risks are way too
high.  Lundborg: There’s a lot of pressure from the “Drill, baby,
drill” crowd?  Lehner: We’re in litigation now with Shell Oil and others
who are still trying to drill in the Arctic.  We’re still trying to keep the Arctic protected.  ( Zinta Lundborg  is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 