-- Hong Kong Property Curbs Aimed at Short-Term Speculation, SHK's Lui Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-12-02T05:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/hong-kong-measures-to-curb-property-good-for-long-term-sun-hung-kai-says.html
Hong Kong’s property curbs are aimed
at curbing short-term speculation and will be good for the
market in the long term, said  Victor Lui , an executive director
of Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd.’s property arm.  “We have seen the effect already as prices and
transactions have both fallen,” Lui said at a shareholder
meeting in Hong Kong today. “They are good for the long-term
development of the property market.”  The  Hang Seng Property Index , which tracks the city’s
seven-biggest developers including Sun Hung Kai, has
 underperformed  the local benchmark and sales tumbled after the
government on Nov. 19 increased minimum down payments on homes
costing more than HK$8 million ($1 million) and imposed
additional stamp duties on all units bought after Nov. 20 and
resold within two years.  Home values in the city have  soared  more than 50 percent
since January 2009, according to an index compiled by Centaline
Property Agency Ltd., Hong Kong’s biggest closely held realtor,
prompting government efforts to maintain affordability.
Weekend sales of used homes fell 83 percent from the previous
week on Nov. 20 and 21, according to Centaline.  Shares of Sun Hung Kai, the world’s biggest developer by
market value, have  risen  13 percent this year, compared with an
8.3 percent advance in the property gauge. The  shares  rose 1.6
percent to HK$131.80 at the noon trading break in Hong Kong
today.  New Projects  The latest government curbs won’t delay sales of projects,
said Lui. Sun Hung Kai will begin selling projects in Yuen Long,
Tuen Mun and West Kowloon districts next year, Lui said.  The group is confident of attaining the same  revenue  from
residential sales as last year,  Eric Chow , an executive director
at Sun Hung Kai Real Estate Agency, told the shareholder meeting.
It had HK$26 billion in residential sales revenue last year.  Transactions of second-hand properties climbed Nov. 27 and
28 as buyer interest shifted to less expensive neighborhoods
such as in the New Territories, according to Midland Holdings
Ltd. Transactions increased to 20, compared with 14 the previous
weekend, according to data from Midland Properties, a unit of
Midland Holdings, the city’s biggest realtor by market value.  Residential transactions may fall by as much as 30 percent
from current levels of 11,000 units a month over the next
quarter, property broker Colliers International Ltd. said.  Tallest Building  Sun Hung Kai, controlled by the family of Chairwoman Kwong
Siu-hing, built and operates office buildings including the
International Finance Centre, a joint development with  Henderson
Land Development Co. , and the International Commerce Centre, the
city’s tallest building.  The developer will begin selling two commercial projects in
East Kowloon and Cheung Sha Wan by June 2011, Lui said today.  Thomas and Raymond Kwok, sons of Kwong and the company’s
late founder Kwok Tak Seng, took over running Sun Hung Kai in
May 2008 after ousting elder brother Walter Kwok from the
chairmanship. The family’s combined wealth of $17 billion is
third on Forbes Magazine’s list of Hong Kong’s richest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  