-- Hong Kong Stocks Rise a Second Day on Signs Global Recovery Strengthening
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-12-02T08:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/hong-kong-stocks-rise-a-second-day-on-signs-global-recovery-strengthening.html
Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  of stocks
rose for a second day as improving economic reports and
speculation Europe’s debt crisis will be contained boosted
confidence in a global recovery.  Yue Yuen Industrial (Holdings) Ltd. , the world’s largest
supplier of branded athletic and casual shoes, climbed 1.1
percent. Techtronic Industries Co., maker of Hoover vacuum
cleaners and Ryobi power tools, advanced 1.4 percent.  Cnooc Ltd. ,
China’s biggest offshore oil producer, increased 3.2 percent
after commodity prices rose.  Huaneng Power International Inc. ,
China’s No. 2 electricity producer, surged 6.8 percent after
China ordered a freeze in power-coal prices.  “Market sentiment has turned to bullish from bearish
because of the positive economic data,” said  Francis Lun ,
general manager at Fulbright Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“People aren’t worrying about recession now. Market confidence
is likely to continue for the rest of the year.”  The  Hang Seng Index  rose 0.9 percent to 23,448.78 at the
close, its highest close since Nov. 22. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index  of so-called H shares of Chinese companies
gained 1.1 percent to 13,087.40.  Yue Yuen , the shoemaker that gets about half of sales from
the U.S. and Europe, rose 1.1 percent to HK$28.75. Techtronic
Industries climbed 1.4 percent to HK$8.61. Cosco Pacific Ltd.,
which operates container facilities at Greece’s Piraeus port,
advanced 4.9 percent to HK$12.94, the biggest gain in the Hang
Seng Index.  Manufacturing, Jobs  In the U.S., an ADP Employer Services report showed
employers added 93,000 workers in November, more than the 70,000
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Separately,
the Institute for Supply Management said its factory index, a
gauge of manufacturing, held near a five-month high.  The Federal Reserve said the economy gained strength across
much of the U.S. as hiring improved, manufacturing expanded and
retailers anticipated a stronger holiday shopping season.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
policy makers must assert authority to fight “demanding”
market conditions in Europe, and that investors are
underestimating policy makers’ determination to halt the
region’s debt crisis.  Manufacturing industries  in Europe expanded at the fastest
pace in four months in November, led by Germany, the zone’s
largest economy, London-based Markit Economics said yesterday.  Oil Rises  Oil and metal producers gained as the economic reports
raised optimism commodity demand will increase. Cnooc climbed
3.2 percent to HK$17.54, and PetroChina Co., the country’s
biggest oil company, increased 2.4 percent to HK$9.97. China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. advanced 1.5 percent to HK$7.39.  Crude oil for January delivery jumped 3.1 percent to $86.75
a barrel in New York yesterday, the highest settlement price
since Nov. 11, while the London Metal Exchange Index of prices
for six industrial metals including copper and aluminum climbed
2.6 percent.  Jiangxi Copper Co. , China’s No. 1 producer of the metal,
jumped 3.7 percent to HK$24.05, while Zhaojin Mining Industry
Co., a miner based in China’s Shandong province, climbed 4.4
percent to HK$30.75. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the country’s
No. 1 producer of the metal, gained 1.4 percent to HK$7.11  A report yesterday showed China’s manufacturing expanded at
the fastest pace in seven months in November, indicating the
economy can withstand higher interest rates as price pressures
escalate.  Power Prices  The  Hang Seng Index  gained 6.3 percent this year through
yesterday as economic reports and company earnings eased concern
China’s monetary tightening measures and Europe’s debt will slow
global growth. Shares in the gauge trade at an average 14.8
times  estimated earnings , compared with about 17.2 times at the
start of the year.  Chinese power producers rose after the state-run Xinhua
News Agency said the government ordered a freeze in 2011
contract prices for coal used in power stations.  Huaneng Power
International  surged 6.8 percent to HK$4.42, while Datang
International Power Generation Co., China’s biggest electricity
producer, jumped 6.8 percent to HK$2.99. China Resources Power
Holdings Co., the Hong Kong-listed mainland electricity producer,
climbed 4.3 percent to HK$14.42.  Power-station coal prices under term contracts must be
unchanged from 2010 levels, Xinhua reported yesterday, citing
 Cao Changqing , head of pricing at the National Development and
Reform Commission. “Any form of price increase is not
allowed,” Cao was quoted as saying.  Three stocks rose for each that fell on the 45-member Hang
Seng Index. Futures on the gauge gained 0.7 percent to 23,415.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 