-- OPEC to Keep Oil Production Quota Unchanged, Angola, Venezuela, Libya Say
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s
-- 2010-12-02T13:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/opec-to-keep-oil-quota-unchanged-angola-venezuela-libya-say.html
OPEC  will probably keep its
production quota unchanged when it meets on Dec. 11 in Ecuador,
ministers from Angola, Venezuela and Libya said.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries considers
oil at $80 to $85 a barrel a “comfortable price,” Angola’s
Minister of Petroleum  Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos  said
yesterday. Crude traded around $86 a barrel in New York today.
Venezuela’s energy minister  Rafael Ramirez , who said he prefers
a price level of $100 a barrel, told reporters in Doha today
that the group will likely maintain its existing output target.  “The current environment is of some stability,” Angola’s
Vasconcelos said in an interview. “The sentiment among members
is for maintaining the production level.”  Libya’s top oil official,  Shokri Ghanem , said yesterday in
Doha that the organization will seek stricter compliance with
the current production target. OPEC, which produces about 40
percent of the world’s oil, hasn’t changed its formal limit
since December 2008, when it announced record supply cuts and a
quota of 24.845 million barrels a day.  The group’s adherence to that level has faltered as
recovering demand and rising prices encourage members to exceed
their individual allocations. Compliance among the 11 nations
bound by quotas slipped to 51 percent in October, according to
data from the group published on Nov. 11.  Qatari Energy Minister  Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah  said
today he won’t attend the Dec. 11 gathering in Quito, Ecuador.  Angola ’s Vasconcelos said he expects the country’s oil
production to increase to 1.9 million barrels a day next year,
close to its maximum capacity. Angola pumped an average of 1.73
million barrels a day in November, according to a Bloomberg
survey of producers and analysts on Nov. 30.  OPEC’s 12 members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the quota system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  