-- Orexigen Options Suggest Contrave Diet Pill May Avoid Arena, Vivus Delays
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-12-02T21:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/orexigen-options-suggest-contrave-diet-pill-may-avoid-arena-vivus-delays.html
Orexigen Therapeutics Inc.  option
traders are placing record bets the biotechnology company will
succeed where two rivals have failed in introducing the first
U.S. prescription diet pill in a decade.  The number of bullish contracts known as calls rose 139
percent last month to a record 59,340, increasing twice as fast
as  open interest  for puts to sell. A Food and Drug
Administration  advisory panel  will consider whether to approve
Orexigen’s Contrave on Dec. 7.  Investors are growing more confident that La Jolla,
California-based Orexigen, which is losing  money  for a sixth
straight year, will start breaking out of a slump that erased 59
percent of equity value since Orexigen’s April 2007 initial
public offering. The most  popular  options wagers are for the
stock, which closed at $4.89 yesterday, to climb to $6, $7, or
$11 before this month’s contracts expire Dec. 17.  “There’s been accumulators of calls every single day,”
said  Lillian Seidman Davis , an options strategist at Miller
Tabak & Co. in New York. “Some people are playing it for a
potential double.”  The December $6 calls had the fastest growth over the past
month, followed by the same month’s $7 and $11 calls, and
together account for 28 percent of all 105,243 outstanding
Orexigen contracts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Orexigen rose 58 cents, or 12 percent, to $5.47 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, ending a
five-day  slump . The stock has dropped 26 percent this year.  Staff Report  The FDA is scheduled to release a staff report for panel
discussion tomorrow and issue a final decision by Jan. 31. The
agency usually follows the recommendations of its advisory
panels, though it isn’t required to do so.  Contrave, the company’s first product, helped obese people
lose an average of as much as 8.1 percent of their body weight,
or 17 pounds (7.7 kilograms), after 56 weeks in a study reported
in July. The most common side effect was nausea, experienced by
almost one-third of patients taking the drug.  The pill contains bupropion, an antidepressant also used to
quit smoking, and naltrexone, a treatment for alcohol and
painkiller addiction. The medicines target different parts of
the brain that influence appetite and cravings. While the drugs
are commonly used, high blood pressure, seizures, liver injury
and suicide are among the significant safety risks noted in the
prescribing information.  Japanese Partner  Orexigen and its partner,  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. , based
in Osaka, Japan, say they have learned how to tackle the FDA
review of safety and effectiveness by watching what caused the
delays in October of competing medicines from Mountain View,
California-based  Vivus Inc.  and San Diego-based  Arena
Pharmaceuticals Inc.   “We have paid close attention to these regulatory
interactions and have been applying any learnings to our own
regulatory review in preparation for our advisory committee
review in December,” Orexigen Chief Executive Officer  Michael Narachi  said on a Nov. 3 conference call with investors. “The
recent advisory committee meetings highlighted the importance of
clearly articulating risk-mitigation plans.”  The company declined to comment on its option trading when
contacted by Bloomberg News.  Implied volatility, the key gauge of option prices, for at-
the-money Orexigen options expiring in 30 days has more than
doubled in the past month to 316.66 and reached a record 357.50
on Nov. 17. Options are pricing in a move below $1.65 or above
$8 after the FDA panel decision, Seidman said.  Call Spread  Seidman is recommending clients who own the shares and
expect the stock to rally on the decision buy a December $8 call
while selling two of the December $11 calls, a strategy known as
a 1X2 call spread. The trade costs almost nothing because the
investor collects a premium from selling the two calls at the
higher strike price, offsetting the cost of the purchase.  The FDA panel voted 10-6 against Vivus’s experimental
weight-loss drug Qnexa in July because of concerns about
potential risks of birth defects, depression and increased
weight loss. The FDA asked the company Oct. 28 to submit two-
year study results, details about heart risks and a plan to
prevent use during pregnancy before Qnexa may be approved as
early as next year.  Arena’s lorcaserin, the least effective of the three pills
under review, was considered to be the safest until potential
cancer risks arose during the FDA review and the advisory panel
voted 9-5 against the drug in September. Arena and partner Eisai
Co., of Tokyo, said Oct. 23 that they must submit additional
data to win approval and may need new studies.  “The options market is implying that Orexigen’s medicine
will get approved,” said  Ophir Gottlieb , head of client
services at Livevol Inc., a San Francisco-based provider of
options market analytics. “Since the other two diet pills
failed, Orexigen may have a better chance of getting approval,
simply because this is an illness that needs to be addressed and
maybe they’ve learned something from the previous failures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 