-- Toronto-Dominion, CIBC Shares Fall As Profits Drop on Lower Trading Fees
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-02T21:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/toronto-dominion-cibc-fourth-quarter-profits-fall-on-lower-trading-fees.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank  and  Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce , Canada’s second- and fifth-largest
banks by assets, reported lower fourth-quarter profits as
trading income declined. Shares of both lenders fell.  Toronto-Dominion said net income for the period ended Oct.
31 dropped 1.6 percent to C$994 million ($908 million), or
C$1.07 a share. CIBC’s profit fell 22 percent to C$500 million,
or C$1.17 a share. Before one-time items, Toronto-Dominion
missed analyst estimates, while CIBC topped expectations.  Both Toronto-based lenders today reported lower investment-
banking results, as trading and underwriting fees fell from a
year ago when banks were rebounding from a recession. Toronto-
Dominion’s investment-banking profit was the lowest in two
years, while CIBC had a loss from that business.  “The year-over-year comparisons would be very difficult in
investment banking,” said  Douglas Davis , Chief Executive
Officer of Davis-Rea Ltd., which manages about C$400 million
including bank stocks. “Last year was a huge year as the banks
were bailing themselves out along with everybody else, so there
were just a huge number of deals being done.”  Toronto-Dominion fell C$2, or 2.7 percent, to C$73.29 in 4
p.m. trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the biggest drop in
about five months. CIBC fell C$1.74, or 2.2 percent, to C$79.31.  Higher Expenses  Before one-time items, Toronto-Dominion’s profit was C$1.38
a share, missing the C$1.46-a-share average  estimate  of 16
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. CIBC said it earned C$1.68
a share excluding items, higher than the C$1.63-a-share average
 estimate  of 14 analysts.  Toronto-Dominion missed estimates because of higher
expenses, Chief Financial Officer  Colleen Johnston  said in an
interview with Business News Network television. “As we go into
2011, we expect our rate of expense growth to slow down a little
bit,” she said.  Toronto-Dominion said non-interest expenses jumped 5.4
percent to C$3.26 billion because of higher rent and marketing.
CIBC’s non-interest expenses climbed 11 percent to C$1.86
billion due to advertising, professional fees and some severance
costs.  Toronto-Dominion set aside C$404 million for loan-loss
provisions, down 22 percent from a year earlier, although higher
than the C$369 million estimate of RBC Capital Markets analyst
Andre-Philippe Hardy. CIBC set aside C$150 million for bad
loans, down 65 percent.  Consumer Banking  Profit at the Toronto-Dominion’s investment-banking unit
fell 74 percent to C$95 million in the quarter. Canadian
consumer-banking profit climbed 24 percent to C$773 million on
higher volumes in banking, financing and real estate lending.  “They focus very, very well on retail banking, and that’s
where the margins are,” said  Tony Demarin , chief investment
officer of BCV Asset Management in Winnipeg, Manitoba, which
manages about C$230 million, including Toronto-Dominion shares.  U.S. consumer-banking profit more than doubled to C$265
million. Chief Executive Officer  Edmund Clark  has said he
expects the bank to earn $1.6 billion a year from its U.S.
operations within three years. The bank now has more U.S.
branches than it does in Canada.  “We’ve moved ourselves into a position where we have a
sustainable position,” in the U.S., Clark said in an October
interview. “We now have a management team in place, enough
presence to say ‘okay, we’ve got a base where we can grow
here’.”  Trading Drops  For the full year, Toronto-Dominion earned C$4.64 billion,
up from C$3.12 billion a year ago.  CIBC had total trading income of C$86 million in the
quarter, down 76 percent from a year earlier. The bank also had
a C$45 million reversal on credit loss provisions.  CIBC’s profit was also reduced by C$239 million from losses
tied mostly to the structured credit business that it’s exiting,
along with costs to return capital from foreign units.  Canadian Imperial was the hardest hit among the country’s
banks during the financial crisis, recording C$10.9 billion in
debt-related writedowns since the collapse of the U.S. subprime
market in 2007. The bank has been unwinding the debt-related
securities that led to the charges.  Earnings from CIBC’s consumer-lending business rose 23
percent to C$576 million, while its investment-banking business
posted a loss of C$56 million, compared with C$160 million
profit a year earlier.  For the full year, the bank earned C$2.45 billion, up from
C$1.17 billion in 2009.  National Bank of Canada, based in Montreal, said Nov. 30
that profit beat estimates.  Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s
largest lender, and Bank of Nova Scotia, the No. 3 bank, report
tomorrow. Bank of Montreal, the fourth-biggest Canadian bank,
reports results Dec. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 