-- Motech of Taiwan May Increase Capacity by 50% in 2011 to Meet Solar Demand
-- B y   Y u - h u a y   S u n
-- 2010-12-02T06:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/motech-of-taiwan-may-increase-capacity-by-50-in-2011-to-meet-solar-demand.html
Motech Industries Inc. , Taiwan’s
biggest solar cell maker by market value, said it may expand
capacity by 50 percent next year to meet demand from customers
turning to renewable energy sources.  Motech plans to increase annual capacity to 1.8 gigawatts
by the end of 2011 from 1.2 gigawatts now after orders exceeded
production, Chief Executive Officer Chang Ping-heng said
yesterday in an interview in Taipei. The solar cell maker is in
talks for a loan to help pay for an expansion, he said,
declining to give details.  Global installations of solar panels may more than double
to 15.8 gigawatts this year as developers seek to set up systems
and benefit from government incentives, according to technology
researcher  Isuppli . Demand may rise to 19.3 gigawatts in 2011,
Isuppli said last month.  “With the large volumes, Motech has an advantage in
cutting prices to compete,” said Johnson Lin, a Taipei-based
analyst at  Capital Securities Corp ., who has a “neutral”
rating on the solar industry.  Solar panel sales to the U.S., Canada and Japan are rising,
Chang said. Europe, the U.S. and Asia each account for one-third
of the company’s revenue, he said.  “Demand is so strong this year that we aren’t able to
fully supply our customers,” said Chang, a former vice
president of  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , the world’s
largest contract maker of chips. “Our capacity for next year
has all been committed out.”  Full Capacity  Motech expects to use its full production capacity next
year, even as a worldwide glut of panels may develop, because
the company expects to overcome the threat of oversupply, he
said. Global annual capacity to produce solar cells may climb to
as much as 30 gigawatts, according to Chang, exceeding Isuppli’s
demand projection by about 55 percent.  “There’ll be an overcapacity next year,” said Chang.
“That’ll create pressure for newcomers.”  Recent entrants to the solar panel market will need time to
certify products and improve yields, he said. “The real good
customers won’t immediately place orders to these companies.”  Motech also produces solar modules and silicon wafers for
manufacturing cells. Taiwan Semiconductor is Taipei-based
Motech’s largest shareholder with a 20 percent stake.  United Microelectronics Corp. , Taiwan Semiconductor’s
closest rival, and display maker  AU Optronics Corp . have also
set up solar ventures.  Rising Profit  Motech expects sales and profit next year to increase from
2010, buoyed by an expansion in capacity and rising demand for
solar panels, said Chang, declining to give numbers.  Chang said earnings will improve even as solar cell prices
may decline 10 percent to 15 percent next year as falling
subsidies in some European countries prompt customers to ask for
a drop in charges.  “It’s reasonable for solar system makers to cut prices by
20 to 25 percent, to stimulate end demand, and then sales will
increase,” said Lin at Capital Securities.  Spain last month reduced subsidies for new solar-power
projects. Solar-panel installations on home roofs will be paid 5
percent less than previously, the government said on Nov. 19.  Net Income  The company had net income of NT$3 billion ($99 million) in
the first nine months of the year compared with a loss of NT$334
million a year earlier, the company said in a statement on Oct.
28. Sales almost doubled to NT$20.3 billion.  The  shares  fell 2.2 percent to close at NT$109.50 in Taipei
trading as of 1:30 p.m. The stock, listed on Taiwan’s Gretai
Securities Market, is down about 27 percent this year.  Motech plans to reduce costs by increasingly producing its
own components and by assembling more solar panel modules at its
plants, Chang said.  The company’s annual capacity of modules may rise to 150
megawatts in the second half of next year from about 120
megawatts now, and capacity of silicon wafers may increase to
500 megawatts by mid-2011 from 180 megawatts, he said.  Motech is in talks to set up joint ventures with companies
that “may complement” the solar cell maker, Chang said,
declining to give details.  Founded in 1981, Motech started as a maker of test and
measurement instruments, according to its  website.  The company
began solar cell production in 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Yu-huay Sun} in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  