-- Crandall as Most Accurate Forecaster Says This Too Shall Pass
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-12-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/lou-crandall-as-most-accurate-forecaster-says-this-too-shall-pass-for-u-s-.html
In 1980, the U.S. economy was in the
middle of a severe downturn, and jobs weren’t easy to find. So  Lou Crandall , after earning a bachelor’s degree with a focus on
economics from Cornell University, scattered resumes far and
wide. One went to an employment agency looking for bilingual
workers. Crandall had spent five years of his boyhood in  Italy ,
where his father taught in an American school, and was fluent in
Italian, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its January issue.  As it happened, the head of the employment agency was
married to an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
and he was looking for a research assistant.  “A resume with a lot of economics courses and a little bit
of computer science was exactly what her husband was looking
for,” Crandall says.  Crandall got the job and spent 18 months at the New York
Fed. Then he moved to Wrightson, a New York-based economic
advisory firm that’s now  Wrightson ICAP LLC , a unit of London-
based  ICAP Plc , the world’s largest broker of trades between
banks.  Twenty-eight years later, Crandall is still at Wrightson,
where he has built a reputation as one of the top forecasters of
the U.S. economy.  Crandall is No. 1 among forecasters for the two-year period
ended on Sept. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He
ranks second for his projections of movements in the consumer
price index and fourth in predicting sales of existing homes.  Maki No. 2 Overall  Dean Maki, chief U.S. economist at  Barclays Capital , the
investment bank of London-based  Barclays Plc , is No. 2 overall
and No. 1 in predicting movements in the U.S. CPI.  The most accurate forecaster of U.S. gross domestic
product, over three years, is Patrick Franke, who works from  Frankfurt  for Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen Girozentrale, or
Helaba, a German savings bank.  Crandall gained his top ranking by accurately predicting,
month by month, U.S. progress toward weathering the recession
and returning to growth. He doesn’t think the administration of
President Barack Obama, or a new Republican-controlled  House of
Representatives , can speed up the process.  “The recovery is going to continue to be painfully slow,
but there is not much that the government can do about that,”
Crandall says. “Some progress is being made, but it is from such
dismal levels that we have not yet re-established a sense that
things are moving in the right direction.”  Recession and Recovery  The Bloomberg ranking of 64 economic forecasters covers the
two years starting on Oct. 1, 2008, except for the GDP ranking,
which starts Oct. 1, 2007. The two-year period was almost evenly
divided between recession and recovery, according to the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based  National Bureau of Economic
Research .  The ranking measures the accuracy of economic forecasts in
13 categories, including GDP, unemployment, consumer and
producer price indexes, home sales, industrial production and
personal spending.  Crandall specializes in U.S. government finance: monetary
policy, Treasury Department financing trends and government-
issued economic data. He says he concentrates on the near term
rather than on what is going to happen a year from now.  “We try to provide a GPS for the economy,” he says,
speaking from his dimly lit office at Wrightson ICAP’s Jersey
City,  New Jersey , headquarters.  The building is also the U.S. headquarters of ICAP.  Wrightson Newsletter  Crandall’s prognostications are published in “The Money
Market Observer,” a daily online newsletter distributed to about
1,500 Wrightson ICAP clients, which include economists, central
bank officials, portfolio managers and traders worldwide.
Crandall, who commutes to Jersey City from his home in  Brooklyn ,
is the editor.  Crandall works closely on his forecasts with Bill Jordan,
an economist at Ried Thunberg ICAP, a fixed-income research firm
that’s also owned by the London broker. Jordan is ranked No. 3
among the overall forecasters.  “Every now and then we have a different forecast,” Jordan,
61, says. “We agree to disagree.”  Crandall and Jordan compare notes on the latest economic
data almost daily. Yet they haven’t seen each other since 2007
because Jordan works from his home in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Crandall and Helaba’s Franke both see a slow recovery for
the U.S. They don’t predict a new recession.  Construction Indicator  A key indicator for Crandall is the Architecture Billings
Index, a statistics trove created by the American Institute of
Architects that tracks U.S. commercial construction. In mid-
November, the index was telling him that there should be an
upswing in 2011, he says.  Helaba’s Franke, 42, says data on nonmanufacturing
companies from the Institute for Supply Management and
government figures on nonfarm payrolls help shape his view that
the U.S. economy will expand at a 2 percent annual rate over the
next few years.  “Now, it’s kind of in a soft spot,” he says. “But the
ingredients for a relapse into recession are just not in place.”  The U.S. economy will expand 2.5 percent in 2011 and 3.1
percent the following year, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg from Nov. 3 to Nov. 9.  Franke says so much information is available on U.S.
economic trends that an economist doesn’t have to live there to
produce credible forecasts.  “I don’t really think it makes a big difference nowadays
whether you’re in the country that you’re analyzing,” he says.  Student of Sinai  He earned a master’s degree in economics from Boston
College and worked for a year in the Boston office of Decision
Economics Inc., the New York-based research firm run by  Allen Sinai , before returning to  Germany . He now travels to the U.S.
only for vacations, he says.  Franke says he’s more bullish on the U.S. economy than many
European forecasters.  “There are some people in  Europe  who have a very negative
view of the growth possibilities of the U.S.,” he says. “People
here tend to be more pessimistic, and they view the Americans as
kind of irresponsible, happy-go-lucky people.”  The top forecasters agree that the speed of U.S. recovery
hinges on the pace of consumer spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy.  David Greenlaw , chief U.S.
fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley in  New York  and the
top-ranked forecaster for personal spending, expects purchases
to increase in 2011 based on modest job growth and a flattening
of the rising personal savings rate.  Consumer is Key  “The consumer has been a key part of the turnaround that
we’ve seen since the middle of last year,” Greenlaw, 51, says.
That turnaround has been very gradual. “You’re edging up from a
depressed level,” he says.  At the pace employers in the U.S. are hiring, it will take
years to replace the 8.4 million jobs lost as a result of the
recession that began in December 2007. In October, companies
added 151,000 workers to their payrolls, the first gain since
May, while the jobless rate held at 9.6 percent.  “The real problem is a lack of hiring,” says Scott Brown,
chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in St.
Petersburg,  Florida , and the top forecaster for unemployment,
according to Bloomberg data. “Firms aren’t encouraged about the
overall economic outlook.”  A key to faster growth is small business.  “We look to small firms to account for a lot of the job
growth,” Brown says. And that complicates life for the
forecasters. “There really isn’t a whole lot of information on
small businesses,” says Brown, who has a doctorate in economics
from the  University of California ,  San Diego .  Stubborn Unemployment  As of October, unemployment in the U.S. had been stuck
above 9 percent for 18 months. Brown says there’s an ongoing
debate among economists and policy makers as to whether
joblessness is cyclical -- the result of weak demand in a slow-
growth economy -- or structural, a result of permanent changes
in the U.S. labor market due to the flight of jobs overseas and
other factors.  “It’s probably a little bit of both, but more cyclical in
the near term,” Brown says. “In terms of the long-term picture,
the number of workers you can expect to enter the system is
probably not going to be growing as rapidly as it did over the
last couple of decades.”  In early November, the Federal Reserve, led by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, tried to speed up the recovery by announcing it
would buy an additional $600 billion in Treasury securities. The
aim is to increase the supply of money available for borrowing,
trigger new spending and spark economic growth.  Inflation Off Target  Barclays Capital’s Maki says another Fed goal is to push up
inflation, which climbed at a 0.8 percent annual pace in the
third quarter, falling short of the Fed’s target long-term range
of 1.7 to 2 percent.  “One of the risks of the Fed actively promoting inflation
is that it could get more inflation than it desires,” says Maki,
who in addition to being second in Bloomberg’s overall rankings
is No. 1 in forecasting movements in the consumer price and
producer price indexes. “The fact that food and energy prices
have so far been relatively moderate is favorable for the pace
of real growth.”  Like Crandall, Maki says his interest in economics was
piqued during college.  “I found that it was a way of thinking about the world that
was different than anything I’d been exposed to before,” says
Maki, 45, who received a B.A. in economics from  St. Olaf College 
in his home state of  Minnesota  before earning a Ph.D. at
 Stanford University .  The Rye, New York, resident worked as a Fed economist from
1995 to 2000, specializing in household finance.  Mall Walker  Maki says he often finds himself studying prices at the
grocery store and the mall, though he doesn’t let it influence
his economic models.  “Stores in the New York City suburbs may not be a strong
enough indicator of the national trend to be really useful in
forecasting,” he says.  Maki says if there is a danger of a spike in inflation, he
doesn’t expect it to happen for a year or two.  For his part, Crandall says: “I expect moderate growth and
somewhat faster employment growth in 2011. But we should finally
have restored a sense that progress is being made.”  And he can still make that forecast in either English or
Italian.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story: Michael
Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net ; Christopher
Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  