-- Ivory Coast Names Ouattara Election Winner as Court Challenges Decision
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2010-12-02T21:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/ouattara-wins-ivory-coast-election-with-54-1-commission-president-says.html
Ivory Coast’s electoral commission
named  Alassane Ouattara  winner of the Nov. 28 presidential
election, a ruling the Constitutional Court said was invalid
after the commission missed a deadline to announce results.  Ouattara won 54.1 percent, or 2.5 million votes, while
President  Laurent Gbagbo  received 45.9 percent, or 2.1 million,
said Youssouf Bakayoko, president of the electoral commission,
in a statement handed to reporters today at a hotel in  Abidjan ,
which Ouattara had been using as his campaign base. Voter
turnout was 81.1 percent, Bakayoko said.  The commission “is not capable of giving the results,”
said  Paul Yao N’Dre , president of the Constitutional Court, in a
statement broadcast on state-controlled Radiodiffusion
Television Ivoirienne. Both candidates traded accusations of
intimidation and fraud on election day, which N’Dre said the
court wanted to investigate before proclaiming its own outcome
within the next seven days.  The United Nations “welcomed the announcement of the
provisional results,” according to a  statement  published on the
UN website. Security Council President  Susan Rice  said the
commission’s declaration is “a crucial step for ensuring the
validity and integrity of the electoral process.”  Reuniting Country  Observers from the European Union said Nov. 30 that any
problems on the day of the vote were not significant enough to
affect the outcome of the. EU mission chief Cristian Preda told
journalists that the members of the constitutional court were
appointed by Gbagbo. The election is meant to unite the world’s
top cocoa grower, split since a 2002 military uprising between a
rebel-held north and government-controlled south.  Supporters of Ouattara, the 68-year-old former prime
minister, began celebrating in the streets of the commercial
capital, Abidjan, before a night time curfew that quieted the
city came into effect. The military also announced the closure
of the country’s borders.  “I ask all Ivorians, whether they voted for me or not, to
face the challenges ahead together,” Ouattara said in an e-
mailed statement. “To all those who want to express their joy in
these historic times for our country, I would like to ask them
to celebrate in peace and not respond to any provocation.”  The campaign was marred by violence that left several dead,
including at least six people who were killed late yesterday at
a Ouattara party office when unidentified gunmen entered the
facility and opened fire.  Violence Breakout  “There is a very strong possibility that if things are not
settled within the next couple of weeks, we could see an all-out
breakout of violence,” said Oswald Felli, head of security and
violent risk assessments with New York-based DaMina Advisors.
Regional leaders, including Ghana’s President  John Atta Mills 
and Burkina Faso leader  Blaise Compaore  may need to “push for a
unity government with Ouattara as the number one, but with
Gbagbo retaining some powers,” Felli said in a phone interview.  Cocoa for March delivery climbed $110, or 4 percent, to
$2,868 by 3:55 p.m. in New York.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 