-- Louisiana Coastal Hurricane Fix Stymied by U.S. Holdup on Oil-Backed Debt
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-12-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/louisiana-coastal-hurricane-fix-stymied-by-u-s-holdup-on-oil-backed-debt.html
The federal government’s failure to
write rules for offshore-drilling payments is blocking Louisiana
from borrowing as much as $1 billion to fix a coastline ravaged
by two hurricanes and the largest U.S. oil spill.  Louisiana, with the most U.S. offshore drilling rigs,
according to oilfield-services company Baker Hughes Inc., needs
cash to build protective levees, restore beaches and divert
water to freshen swamps. To raise funds, Governor  Bobby Jindal ’s
administration is considering selling bonds backed by money from
the  Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act  or using it for a federal
loan, the state’s coastal authority says in its  annual plan .  Yearly payments to the state from new drilling regions 
opened by the security act may be as much as $200 million by
2017, the coastal plan says. No bonds backed by the money can be
sold unless the Interior Department clarifies when and how the
royalties will be paid, the plan says, something the four states
covered by the act have been seeking for more than a year.  “We can’t wait until 2017 to begin drawing this money to
fix our coastline,”  Charlotte Randolph , president of
Louisiana’s Lafourche Parish, told a  conference  of the Southern
Municipal Finance Society in New Orleans on Nov. 10. “It’s a
substantial amount of money and will help rebuild Louisiana.”  The projects are needed after Hurricanes Rita and Katrina
caused an estimated $85 billion of damage to Gulf of Mexico
states in 2005 and claimed about 1,200 lives, according to the
 National Hurricane Center . The coast took another blow on April
20 when BP Plc’s Macondo drilling rig exploded and spilled about
5 million barrels of oil into the Gulf over 87 days.  Spending Cuts  Louisiana needs $1.6 billion of spending cuts to balance
its fiscal 2012 budget, Paul Rainwater, chief administrative
officer, said at the conference. It’s looking for the royalty-
backed bonds to create a “surge” in funding for coastline
restoration, the 2011 report says.  “Early access to this sort of funding is a key component of
our coastal plan,” Garret Graves, chairman of the Coastal
 Protection and Restoration Authority , the office handling the
financing, said in an e-mail.  The 2006 Gulf security act, known as  Gomesa , was sponsored
by Louisiana Democratic Senator  Mary Landrieu  and  Pete Domenici ,
the former Republican senator from New Mexico. The act opened
8.3 million additional acres of the Gulf of Mexico to oil and
gas production and allots 37.5 percent of federal revenue from
new drilling leases to four coastal states.  Louisiana’s Jindal, Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour ,
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and Alabama Governor  Bob Riley  asked
the Interior Department to clarify the rules for Gomesa payments
in September 2009.  ‘Prompt’ Response  The department will address their questions “promptly,”
the governors were informed in a December 2009 letter from Wilma
Lewis, assistant interior secretary for land and minerals
management.  Louisiana’s coastal authority was told regulations would be
ready this month, Andrea Taylor, a department spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail. That timeframe “seems unlikely” now, she said,
since the coastal authority hasn’t seen draft regulations.  Landrieu’s office  is also pushing for rules to be released,
said a spokesman,  Aaron Saunders .  “The whole goal is to get coastal-restoration projects
under way as soon as possible,” he said in a Nov. 24 e-mail.  The Interior Department doesn’t “have a final completion
date at this time,” Jordan Montoya, a spokeswoman, said by e-
mail. She said the department is working on the rules and
offered no details.  Lone State  Alabama  isn’t currently planning to sell bonds backed by
Gomesa payments, Todd Stacy, a spokesman for Riley, said in a
telephone interview. Mississippi doesn’t plan a sale “at the
moment,” Laura Hipp, a Barbour spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. 
 Texas  has no plans for one, Jim Suydam, a spokesman for the
General Land Office, said by e-mail.  Full implementation of Louisiana’s restoration plan is
expected to cost “tens of billions” of dollars, said Taylor,
the coastal office’s spokeswoman. Work valued at almost $17
billion is under way, funded mostly by federal grants, state
mineral revenue, taxes on land-based oil and gas production and
through budget surpluses in 2007-2009, the coastal plan says.  Projects include levees and floodwalls to be completed by
next year to protect half the coastal population from severe
hurricanes, according to the plan. At least one program -- funds
for municipalities to protect wetlands -- has been  placed  on
hold awaiting more Gomesa funds, the report says.  Gomesa Money  Louisiana began getting Gomesa money from a share of 2007
Gulf drilling bids, rentals and production royalties, according
to the Interior Department’s website. The amounts are small
compared with the cost of work needed, with the $699,757
expected this year by the coastal authority projected to fall to
$326,400 in fiscal years 2012 and 2013, the 2011 plan says.  In 2017, when the federal government includes funds from
additional oil and gas leases, the amount will rise to as much
as $200 million a year, the coastal authority projects. The
payment will be affected by prevailing oil and gas prices and
production levels, Dek Terrell, who teaches economics at
Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge, told a March meeting
of the coastal authority.  The pace of permits granted for Gulf drilling may also
influence Gomesa income. The Obama administration has been
issuing fewer rights even after it lifted a deepwater-drilling
moratorium on Oct. 12 that followed BP’s oil spill.  “The slowdown in activity is going to have a definite
impact on production,” Don Briggs, president of the Louisiana
Oil and Gas Association, said in a telephone interview. “Less
production will mean lower revenues.”  Accelerated Payments  Landrieu introduced  legislation  after the BP oil spill to
accelerate the time when additional lease revenue is included in
Gomesa payments. She also  proposed a law  to use at least 80
percent of the penalties charged to BP under the Clean Water Act
for coastal restoration. The fines may be as much as $21
billion, based on an expert panel’s Aug. 2 estimate of the
amount of oil spilled.  Meanwhile, Louisiana’s coastal authority is looking beyond
Gomesa. It’s considering debt backed by future Clean Water Act
fines and selling greenhouse-gas credits, Graves said.  “The solutions we develop and implement in coastal
Louisiana will have worldwide application,” he said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 