-- House Republicans' Proposal Seeks More Disclosure for Public Pension Funds
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-12-02T21:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/house-republicans-seek-more-disclosure-for-public-pension-funds.html
Republicans poised to take control of
the U.S. House are seeking wider disclosures from state and city
pension funds, whose assets have shrunk because of market
declines.  A bill introduced today by incoming House Budget Committee
chairman  Paul Ryan  would force public retirement funds to make
annual reports on their financial status and expected
liabilities, using uniform assumptions. It also would bar
federal bailouts of ailing public pensions.  “We need to ensure that state and local governments are
accurate and honest in detailing their financial liabilities,
including the cost of pension plans for public employees,”
Ryan, a Wisconsin representative, said in a statement.  The gap between assets and what the plans will need to
cover the retirement benefits they’ve promised has swelled
because of losses suffered since the stock market’s slide two
years ago. The deficit has forced higher contributions to
retirement funds, putting pressure on localities struggling with
a drop in tax collections.  Estimates vary for the scale of the liabilities because
pension funds are allowed to adjust assumptions to account for
expected investment returns. The higher those expected returns
are set, the smaller the reported liability.  Estimates Vary  Because of that, forecasts for the additional sums that
public pensions need have ranged from $500 billion to $3
trillion, according to separate studies.  Some funds estimate returns of 8 percent or more. New York
City is among municipalities reconsidering such assumptions
given the turn in financial markets. The Governmental Accounting
Standards Board is also considering revising rules for the way
pension liabilities are calculated.  Local governments may oppose the bill.  Jeffrey Esser , the
executive director of the the Government Finance Officers
Association in Chicago, said some studies have overstated the
pension liabilities by assuming that the funds earn low returns
or skip their contributions.  “It’s just ridiculous,” he said in an interview. “It
creates unnecessary paperwork and is just another unfunded
mandate on state and local governments.”  The state of retirement funds has drawn the scrutiny of
regulators. In August, New Jersey settled claims with the
Securities and Exchange Commission that it misled investors in
$26 billion of municipal bonds by masking underfunding of its
two biggest pension plans, the first SEC case against a state.  The Republican bill would require public funds to spell out
the assumptions used in their calculations. It would also
require them to calculate the liabilities with formulas based on
Treasury bond rates, which would produce a larger shortfall
estimate because they are lower than the typically expected
investment returns.  Lose Bond Subsidies  Governments that don’t comply with the reporting
requirements would lose their ability to sell bonds subsidized
by the U.S. Treasury, including tax-exempt securities and Build
America Bonds.  Representative  Devin Nunes  of California, another sponsor
of the pension bill, said the regulation is needed to improve
disclosure of municipal finances.  “Lucrative pension promises are being made to public
employees that taxpayers simply cannot afford,” Nunes said in a
statement. “The true level of unfunded liabilities associated
with these plans -- perhaps more than $3 trillion -- is being
hidden thanks to unrealistic accounting standards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  