-- Pellegrini Stops Betting Against Stocks, Says Bonds at `Ridiculous' Levels
-- B y   J o n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2010-12-02T19:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/pellegrini-stops-betting-against-stocks-says-bonds-at-ridiculous-levels.html
Paolo Pellegrini , the former Paulson
& Co. executive who helped the firm make more than $3 billion
during the U.S. housing crash, said he stopped betting that
equity prices will fall.  “I’m not short stocks anymore,” Pellegrini said today at
the Hedge Funds 2010 Conference in New York hosted by Bloomberg
Link. “So that’s a significant change.” He doesn’t like most
bonds because prices are at “ridiculous levels,” he said.  U.S. equities will advance about 11 percent during the
next year because earnings are rising and valuations are below
historical levels, money managers  Leon Cooperman  and  Laszlo Birinyi  said at the conference. After a 79 percent rally in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index since a 12-year low in March 2009,
Cooperman said equities are more attractive than bonds even as
economic growth is curbed by debt repayments.  Pellegrini, who in August said he will return money to
clients of his Hamilton, Bermuda-based PSQR LLC, is also
shorting the Japanese yen.  “I think it may have more to go,” he said. “I’m
concerned about Japan.” The yen has gained 11 percent against
the U.S. dollar and 20 percent versus the euro this year.  PSQR, which Pellegrini started last year, slumped about 11
percent in the first seven months of the year, after gaining 62
percent in 2009. A potential reopening of the fund to outside
investors is “not a short-term issue,” he said, and is
something he would consider in two to four years.  Considering Quants  “I’m trying to put together a more stable team, focusing
a lot on more quantitative types of disciplines,” he said,
referring to the use of computer models to select securities to
buy and sell. He cited D.E. Shaw & Co., the New York-based
hedge-fund firm, as an “interesting example” of a
quantitative hedge fund.  Pellegrini also said he is shifting toward favoring “very
safe instruments.” He said futures on the euro, yen, gold, S&P
500, U.S. Treasuries, European and Asian markets are
“extremely efficient.” He also said he favors exchange-traded
funds.  “That’s basically what I think is a reasonable set of
tools to manage money,” he said.  Pellegrini, 53, helped billionaire  John Paulson  engineer a
bet against subprime mortgages that catapulted their hedge
funds to gains of as much as 590 percent in 2007.  At PSQR, Pellegrini runs a macro hedge fund, which seeks
to profit from broad economic trends by trading stocks,
commodities and currencies.  “It’s important to have enough space to focus and really
develop something that’s distinctive,” he said. “I felt I
needed to step back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Erlichman  in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  