-- Pending Sales of Existing Homes in U.S. Increased a Record 10% in October
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-12-02T21:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/pending-sales-of-existing-homes-in-u-s-increased-a-record-10-in-october.html
Pending sales of U.S. existing houses
unexpectedly jumped by a record 10 percent in October,
indicating the industry at the center of the last recession is
stabilizing as the job market improves.  The  increase  in the number of Americans signing contracts
to buy previously owned homes followed a 1.8 percent drop in
September, the National Association of Realtors said today in
Washington. Another report showed claims for jobless benefits
over the past month on  average  dropped to a two-year low.  Combined with figures showing chain-store sales topped
estimates last month, the reports added to evidence the world’s
largest economy is strengthening, sending stocks up for a second
day. Cheaper borrowing costs, lower  prices  and more jobs may
entice homebuyers in coming months, helping the real-estate
market regain its footing after the end of a tax credit caused
demand to slump.  “The fundamentals that are driving home sales are low
mortgage rates combined with job and income growth and that’s
why housing should be expected to grow in coming months,” said
 Dean Maki , chief economist at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York.
“Housing activity will still look low relative to the boom
years, but we expect a solid growth rate to occur.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 1.3 percent to
1,221.53 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. Treasury securities
fell, pushing the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 3
percent from 2.97 percent late yesterday.  Claims Slowing  The number of applications for jobless benefits averaged
431,000 a week over the month ended Nov. 27, the lowest level
since August 2008, Labor Department figures showed.  Claims 
increased by 26,000 last week, more than forecast, to 436,000,
after reaching a two-year low.  “The labor market is definitely improving,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West
Chester, Pennsylvania. “Overall, the economy seems to be
outperforming expectations this quarter, which is encouraging
because it gives us positive momentum into next year.”  A Labor Department report tomorrow may show employers added
145,000 workers last month and the  unemployment rate  held at 9.6
percent.  Pending home sales were projected to decrease 1 percent,
based on the median of 40 forecasts in the Bloomberg survey.
 Estimates  ranged from a drop of 4.8 percent to a gain of 3
percent.  Three of four U.S. regions saw an increase, today’s report
showed, including gains of 27 percent in the Midwest, 20 percent
in the Northeast and 7.1 percent in the South. Purchases fell
0.4 percent in the West.  ‘Uneven’ Recovery  “The housing market clearly is in a recovery phase and
will be uneven at times, but the improving job market and
consequential boost to household formation will help the
recovery process going into 2011,”  Lawrence Yun , NAR’s chief
economist, said in a statement. “But activity needs to improve
further to reach healthy, sustainable levels.”  Compared with October 2009, pending sales were down 22
percent.  Housing is an ongoing concern for Federal Reserve policy
makers, who last month announced additional asset purchases to
spur growth and reduce unemployment.  “Housing markets remain depressed, with several Districts
reporting further weakening during the past six weeks,” the Fed
said in its Beige Book report, which is based on anecdotal
information.  Fed’s View  The Fed’s report, released yesterday, showed the economy
strengthened across much of the U.S. as hiring improved,
manufacturing expanded and retailers anticipated a stronger
holiday shopping season.  November comparable-store sales rose 5.3 percent at U.S.
retailers, compared with a 3.5 percent estimate, Retail Metrics
Inc. president  Ken Perkins  said in an interview.  The  average rate  on a fixed 30-year mortgage reached 4.17
percent in mid November, the lowest level since Freddie Mac
records going back to 1972, after the Fed announced it would
pump another $600 billion into the banking system by June to
spur growth. The average rate climbed to 4.46 percent in the
week ended today, a four-month high, on mounting evidence the
economy is improving.  The real-estate agents group’s housing  affordability index ,
which takes into account borrowing costs, home prices and
household incomes, climbed to a record in October.  Leading Indicator  Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Purchases of previously
owned homes are tabulated when a contract closes, typically a
month or two later.  Sales of  existing  homes, which now make up about 90 percent
of the market, fell more than forecast in October as foreclosure
moratoriums and a lack of credit disrupted the market, data from
the Realtors group showed last week. In July, sales ran at the
weakest pace in records going back a decade.  The tax credit worth as much as $8,000 required contracts
be signed on April 30 and closed by Sept. 30. Many of the
closings occurred in May and June because the original incentive
called for transactions to be completed by June 30.  Companies including  Beazer Homes USA Inc. , which builds
houses for first-time buyers, are cautious about next year.  “Sustained high unemployment levels and the overhang of
foreclosures make it very difficult to predict when and to what
extent the housing market will recover,”  Ian McCarthy , chief
executive officer of Atlanta-based Beazer, said on a conference
call with analysts on Nov. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  