-- Pending U.S. Home Sales Probably Decreased in October for a Second Month
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-12-02T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/pending-u-s-home-sales-probably-decreased-in-october-for-a-second-month.html
Fewer Americans probably signed
contracts to buy previously owned homes in October for a second
month, adding to evidence a recovery in housing will take time
to develop, economists said before a report today.  The National Association of Realtors’  index  of pending home
resales dropped 1 percent after a 1.8 percent decline the prior
month, according to the  median  forecast of 40 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. A separate report may show initial
 claims  for jobless benefits rose last week from a two-year low.  Housing is backsliding following the expiration of a
government tax credit that helped prop up sales earlier this
year.  Unemployment  near 10 percent and  foreclosure -driven
declines in home prices probably mean a rebound in the industry
at the center of the last recession will be years in the making.  “Housing markets aren’t even approaching recovery yet,”
said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “With distressed homes
waiting in the wings, supply and demand won’t come back into
balance anytime in the near future.”  The National Association of Realtors’ figures are due at 10
a.m. in Washington.  Estimates  in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from a drop of 4.8 percent to a gain of 3 percent.  At 8:30 a.m., the Labor Department may report applications
for unemployment benefits rose to 424,000 last week, according
to the Bloomberg  survey  median. Claims fell to 407,000 in the
prior week, the lowest level since July 2008, reinforcing
evidence the labor market is mending.  Fed Outlook  Housing is an ongoing concern for Federal Reserve policy
makers, who last month announced additional asset purchases to
spur growth and reduce unemployment. Their Beige Book report,
released yesterday, showed the economy strengthened across much
of the U.S. as hiring improved, manufacturing expanded and
retailers anticipated a stronger holiday shopping season.  “Housing markets remain depressed, with several Districts
reporting further weakening during the past six weeks,” the Fed
said in the report, which is based on anecdotal information.  Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Purchases of previously
owned homes are tabulated when a contract closes, typically a
month or two later.  Sales of  existing  homes, which now make up about 90 percent
of the market, fell more than forecast in October as foreclosure
moratoriums and a lack of credit disrupted the market, data from
the Realtors group showed last week. In July, sales ran at the
weakest pace in records going back a decade.  Credit’s Influence  The tax credit worth as much as $8,000 required contracts
be signed on April 30 and closed by Sept. 30. Many of the
closings occurred in May and June because the original incentive
called for transactions to be completed by June 30.  Companies including  Beazer Homes USA Inc. , which builds
houses for first-time buyers, are cautious about next year.  “Sustained high unemployment levels and the overhang of
foreclosures make it very difficult to predict when and to what
extent the housing market will recover,”  Ian McCarthy , chief
executive officer of Atlanta-based Beazer, said on a conference
call with analysts on Nov. 5.  Dwindling purchases are hurting builder shares. The
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilder  Index , which
includes Toll Brothers Inc. and Lennar Corp., has lost 29
percent since reaching a 19-month high on May 3. The broader S&P
500 Index is up 0.3 percent over the same period.  House prices also are depressed. The S&P/Case-Shiller index
of property values in 20 cities climbed in September from a year
earlier by the least since January, figures showed this week.
Compared with the prior month, after adjusting for seasonal
variations, the gauge dropped by the most since April 2009.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  