-- Pentagon Has ‘50-50’ Chance to Avoid Deep Cuts, Cartwright Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-12-02T18:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/pentagon-has-50-50-chance-to-avoid-deep-cuts-cartwright-says.html
The U.S. defense budget has at least
even odds of meeting Defense Secretary  Robert Gates ’s goal of 1
percent spending growth after inflation, the Pentagon’s No. 2
uniformed officer said.  “We’ve got better than a 50-50” chance of avoiding deeper
cuts as Congress searches for ways to reduce the deficit,
General  James Cartwright , vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, said after speaking today to a defense investment
conference. “But there are realities we will have to work our
way through with the Office of Management and Budget and the
Congress.”  At the same time, Cartwright said he has “zero faith” the
Pentagon will meet a related goal of keeping -- for use on high-
priority projects -- all of the money saved from a Defense
Department plan to shave $100 billion of overhead and other
costs, including $7 billion in 2012. Some of those savings will
likely go for deficit reduction, Cartwright said.  “Some of that will migrate out,” he said. “I don’t think
it will be in the large portions. It will be manageable, at
least this year.  “As you go forward and you try to set that $100 billion
aside, it’s probably going to continue to leak at a greater rate
as the pressure comes on the budget. It’s just logical,” he
said. The largest projected annual saving is $28 billion in
2015.  On  Aug. 9 , Gates said that his “greatest fear is that in
economic tough times, people will see the defense budget as the
place to solve the nation’s deficit problems, to find money for
other parts of the government.”  In the long run, as U.S. force levels are reduced in
Afghanistan and Iraq, “my sense is that we’ll have a downturn”
in Pentagon spending, Cartwright said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  