-- PepsiCo to Buy Wimm-Bill-Dann Stake for $3.8 Billion
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2010-12-02T21:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/pepsico-to-buy-66-of-wimm-bill-dann-for-3-8-billion.html
PepsiCo Inc.  agreed to buy a
controlling stake in Wimm-Bill-Dann Dairy & Juice Co. for $3.8
billion helping Chief Executive Officer  Indra Nooyi  retake the
lead in juice and dairy from  Coca-Cola Co . in Russia.  PepsiCo will buy 66 percent of Wimm-Bill-Dann and plans to
make an offer for the rest, subject to government approvals, the
companies said today. The price of $33 per U.S. share is 32
percent more than the average in the past 30 days, they said.  |  The deal is PepsiCo’s largest yet to bolster its Russian
beverage business, following the 2008 purchase of a majority
stake in OAO Lebedyansky, the country’s biggest juice maker. The
move makes Russia PepsiCo’s biggest international market and
gives Nooyi more ammunition in her Russian duel with  Coca-Cola ,
which also has sought acquisitions in the country to profit from
its growing middle class.  “Historically Russia’s been important because it’s a large
market and it’s been untapped,”  Philip Gorham , a senior equity
analyst for  Morningstar Inc . in Chicago, said today in a
telephone interview. “At the moment it’s your typical emerging-
markets play but on a really large scale.” Gorham rates PepsiCo
shares as undervalued.  Including assumed debt, PepsiCo is paying 19.8 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The median multiple for
similar deals since 2001 is 9.66 times ebitda, the data show.  Wimm-Bill-Dann, whose brands include Chudo dairy products
and Agusha baby food, has almost doubled its sales since 2005.
Buying the company will help PepsiCo become the biggest food-
and-beverage company in Russia.  In 2009, PepsiCo and Wimm-Bill-Dann together had 42 percent
of Russian juice sales by volume, according to data from
Euromonitor Plc. Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Co. and Nidan held
a 35 percent share. Coca-Cola purchased a controlling stake in
Nidan this year.  Juice Market  Wimm-Bill-Dann stock rose 1,333.91 rubles, or 58 percent,
to 3,634.42 rubles in Moscow. PepsiCo fell 43 cents to $65.20 at
4 p.m. in  trading  on the New York Stock Exchange.  The purchase of the entire company should close by the end
of the second quarter, Chief Financial Officer  Hugh Johnston 
said during a call with reporters. Wimm-Bill-Dann will give
PepsiCo about half the Russian juice market, he said. Wimm-Bill-
Dann also operates a large and established dairy distributor,
allowing PepsiCo to expand into milk-and yogurt-based snacks and
drinks.  PepsiCo’s strategy includes making commodity items like
milk more attractive to higher-income consumers through
packaging, safety and product innovation,  Mehmood Khan ,
PepsiCo’s chief research and development officer, said on a
conference call. In emerging countries, that might include
offering standard milk in enclosed, bacteria-free packages to
customers used to unsanitary open containers. In developing
countries, PepsiCo will create dairy-based drinks with more
convenient packaging or added nutrients, he said.  Russian History  PepsiCo dates its history in Russia to former Soviet leader
 Nikita Khrushchev ’s first taste of Pepsi; the beverage was made
available to the Soviet public soon after. By contrast,  Coca-
Cola’s  drinks weren’t widely available there until 1989 with the
opening of the first McDonald’s restaurant in Moscow.  PepsiCo  opened its first Russian production plant in 1974
and has invested $3 billion there in the past decade. It’s
stepping up expansion in a market where growth is forecast to
outpace the U.S.  The Russian economy is forecast to grow 3.8 percent this
year, its government estimates. The U.S. will expand 2.7 percent
in 2010, according to Nov. 18 estimates from the OECD. Russia’s
dairy market will expand at a “low-double-digit” rate for at
least the next three years, the companies forecast.  Outside North America  The acquisition values all of Wimm-Bill-Dann at $5.4
billion.  Wimm-Bill-Dann , Russia’s largest dairy company, had
sales of about $2.4 billion in the 12 months ended in June.
PepsiCo generates about 52 percent of its sales from the U.S.
Coca-Cola gets about 25 percent of sales in North America.  Danone SA  in October completed the sale of an 18.4 percent
stake in the Russian company for $470 million. The French yogurt
maker divested the holding to meet antitrust requirements on its
merger with  Unimilk , another Russian dairy company. That sale
price valued all of Wimm-Bill-Dann at about $2.6 billion,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  Andrey Goltsblat, a managing partner at Moscow law firm
Goltsblat, which focuses on mergers and acquisitions, said
PepsiCo’s move for the company was spurred by Danone’s
announcement of a merger with Russia’s dairy producer Unimilk in
June this year.  “Danone forced PepsiCo’s hand,” said Goltsblat by phone.  Foreign-Sounding Name  PepsiCo expects the deal to add 8 cents to per-share
earnings starting in 2012, Johnston said during a  conference
call . The company will use cash from international operations to
finance 75 percent of the transaction and use commercial paper
loans for the balance, Johnston said. Those loans will be repaid
quickly, he added.  Wimm-Bill-Dann’s foreign-sounding name was chosen by its
founders 18 years ago because consumers didn’t trust local
products at the time, according to its website.  Centerview Partners and Morgan Stanley served as financial
advisers for PepsiCo, and Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and
Linklaters CIS provided legal counsel. J.P. Morgan provided
financial advice for Wimm-Bill-Dann, and Latham & Watkins LLP
acted as legal adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Duane D. Stanford  in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  