-- Perelman Must Pay Ex-Wife Ellen Barkin's Company $4.3 Million, Court Rules
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-12-02T23:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/perelman-must-pay-4-3-million-to-ex-wife-barkin-n-y-appeals-court-says.html
Billionaire  Ronald Perelman  must pay
$4.3 million to his ex-wife  Ellen Barkin’s  Applehead Pictures
LLC after reneging on a agreement to invest in the film
production company, a New York appeals court ruled.  Barkin, an actress who starred in “Palindromes” (2004)
and “The Big Easy” (1987), founded New York-based Applehead
Pictures with her brother George Barkin in November 2005. The
decision by the Appellate Division, First Department affirmed a
trial court’s January ruling on the 2007 suit.  Perelman, the chairman of cosmetics maker Revlon Inc.,
agreed to make capital contributions to Applehead Pictures in
2006 and 2007, totaling $3.4 million, according to the decision.
Perelman didn’t approve of Barkin’s acting career, and they
agreed the company would let her continue working in film, the
decision said. The couple married in 2000 and entered into a
separation agreement and divorce in February 2006.  “The primary issue presented is whether two separately
executed agreements -- a marital separation agreement and a
business operating agreement -- can be deemed to be one
integrated contract,” Justice  Eugene Nardelli  wrote in the
unanimous opinion. “We hold in the negative.”  The court rejected Perelman’s argument that Barkin’s
alleged breaches of the separation agreement relieved him of his
obligations in the business agreement.  ‘Unfortunate Decision’  “This is an unfortunate decision,” Christine Taylor, a
spokeswoman for Perelman, said in an e-mail. “We still maintain
Ms. Barkin should not be entitled to any additional money beyond
the enormous settlement she received five years ago. She said
Perelman had “moved on” and left it to his attorneys to handle
the “still-pending claims against Ms. Barkin and others based on
their misconduct in managing and controlling Applehead
Pictures.”  Perelman had countersued in New York state Supreme Court,
alleging Barkin misappropriated Applehead funds to finance
personal expenses.  New York attorney Jacob Buchdahl, who represents Applehead,
said his client were “thrilled” with the appeals court
decision.  “As far as Applehead is concerned, Perelman won’t truly
have moved on until after he satisfies his obligations,”
Buchdahl added. He called the pending claims “nonsense” meant
to distract. They will only result in more money going to
Applehead, he said.  The $4.3 million award includes more than $900,000 in
interest.  The case is Applehead Pictures LLC v.  Ronald O. Perelman ,
602606/2007, New York Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York Supreme Courthouse at
   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 