-- Toledo Pledges ‘No Surprises’ for Foreign Metal Miners in Peru
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2010-12-02T19:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/peru-president-candidate-toledo-pledges-no-surprises-for-foreign-miners.html
Peruvian presidential candidate
 Alejandro Toledo  said there will be “no surprises” for foreign
mining companies if he wins back his job in April elections.  Toledo, who was tied for second-place in a poll taken last
month, is pledging to quicken the pace of judicial reform,
partly in exchange for international miners improving their
compliance with the country’s environmental laws.  “If elected, I’m going to call them all to the table and
we’re going to establish the rules of the game and once we agree
to that, we’re going to have no surprises,” Toledo, 64, said
yesterday in an interview in Vancouver ahead of meetings with
executives of Canada’s largest mining companies.  Peru, the world’s largest silver producer and second-
largest producer of copper, has lined up $41 billion in mining
and energy investment commitments over the next decade. South
America’s sixth-biggest economy is on pace to expand as much as
9 percent this year and 7 percent in 2011, the fastest growth
rate in the region, according to the Andean country’s Finance
Ministry.  As Peru’s president from 2001 to 2006, Toledo oversaw the
startup of the $2.2 billion Antamina mine and Toronto-based
 Barrick Gold Corp .’s $340 million Alto Chicama gold mine, while
a Hunt Oil Co.-led group started up the $1.6 billion Camisea gas
fields project. Barrick is the world’s largest gold producer.  Sustainable Growth  New investments in resource extraction include a $1.3
billion expansion of Antamina, the world’s largest combined
copper-and-zinc mine, by a group of companies including
Vancouver-based  Teck Resources Ltd ., Canada’s largest
diversified mining company.  The country relies on exports of raw materials such as
copper, gold and natural gas for about 65 percent of annual
government revenue, Toledo said.  Toledo said he is in Canada to assure the mining industry
that he is committed to strengthening the country’s “fragile
democratic institutions” to both protect and attract foreign
investment and to prevent social unrest.  “When you don’t have a just judicial system, the poor get
poorer, the rich get richer,” Toledo said. “It’s not a very
adequate climate to attract the  capital investment  that is
needed to provide sustainability of the growth levels that we
have now.”  Exploration, Elections  Talisman Energy Inc ., a petroleum producer based in
Calgary, and more than 200 junior mining exploration companies,
mostly Canadian, are searching for reserves of crude oil,
natural gas and other resources across the country.  Pan American Silver Corp . and  Fortuna Silver Mines Inc .,
based in Vancouver, also operate mines in Peru.  Lima Mayor  Luis Castaneda  and  Keiko Fujimori , a
congresswoman and daughter of jailed former President Alberto
Fujimori, are among candidates competing with Toledo to succeed
President  Alan Garcia   Toledo was tied for second place with 20 percent in an
Ipsos Apoyo poll published Nov. 21. The poll of 1,200 people in
17 Peruvian cities from Nov. 17-19 had a margin of error of 4.4
percentage points for Lima and 2.8 percentage points overall.  Toledo said he has no plans, if elected, to pardon
Fujimori, who was sentenced to 25 years in jail in 2009 for
human rights violations committed by government-linked death
squads.  “I don’t like to live in the past,” he said. “There will
be trouble if Peru goes back to its past.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 