-- Swiss Stocks Advance as Trichet Says ECB Will Delay Liquidity Withdrawal
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-12-02T16:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/petroplus-sgs-sonova-synthes-zurich-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks rose as European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the ECB will delay the
withdrawal of emergency liquidity measures and keep buying
government bonds to stem the region’s debt crisis.  Zurich Financial Services AG  gained 2.6 percent as
Switzerland’s largest insurer said it plans to cut costs by $500
million over the next three years.  Petroplus Holdings AG  jumped
13 percent, the most in 15 months, as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
recommended buying the shares of Europe’s largest independent
refiner. UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG advanced as banking
shares were among the best performers in Europe today.  The  Swiss Market Index  gained 1.2 percent to 6,483.44 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge, which posted its first
monthly loss in three months in November, has rallied 9.1
percent from its 2010 low in July. The broader  Swiss Performance
Index  increased 1.2 percent today.  “Overall there is a good mood in the market into year
end,”  Benno Galliker , a trader at Luzerner Kantonalbank AG in
Lucerne, said.  Trichet said the ECB will delay the withdrawal of emergency
liquidity measures and keep buying government bonds as the debt
crisis creates “acute” tensions in financial markets. The
central bank kept interest rates at a record low of 1 percent,
as predicted by all 52 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Swiss Growth  Earlier today, a report showed that Swiss economic growth
weakened less than economists had forecast in the third quarter
as consumers stepped up their spending, helping counter a drop
in exports.  The country’s gross domestic product rose 0.7 percent from
the second quarter, when it increased a revised 0.8 percent, the
State Secretariat for Economic Affairs in Bern said today.
Economists forecast a 0.5 percent gain, the median of 18
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Zurich increased 2.6 percent to 237 Swiss francs. The
insurer plans to cut costs by $500 million over the next three
years with more than two-thirds of the savings coming from its
non-life business.  Petroplus surged 13 percent to 10.93 francs. The refiner
was upgraded to “buy” from “neutral” at Goldman Sachs, which
said in a note that “we are now forecasting a much better
refinery utilization rate profile over the medium term than
before.”  UBS and Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s biggest banks, rose
2.1 percent to 15.79 francs and 2.4 percent to 38.71 francs,
respectively as a gauge for European banks advanced for a second
day.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. , the 120-year-old Swiss private
bank, advanced 3.1 percent to 41.45 francs.  Holcim Ltd. , the world’s second-biggest cement maker,
gained 2.5 percent to 67.70 francs. Kepler Capital Markets wrote
in a note that “investors rightly neglected the sector over the
last three years, but it now offers an excellent risk/reward
ratio.”  Swatch, Synthes  Swatch Group AG , the maker of Omega and Breguet watches,
gained 2.2 percent to 418.80 francs. Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
reiterated an “outperform” rating, saying in a note today that
“the Swiss watch industry has experienced solid growth for 25
years. Emerging markets driven demand is pushing it to new
highs, as growth prospects for the next 5 to 10 years look
bright.”  Synthes Inc.  rose 2.3 percent to 127 francs. Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc initiated coverage of the stock with a
“buy” rating, saying in a note that it sees “better medium-
term underlying growth prospects for Synthes than for some of
its peers.”  Sonova Holding AG  retreated 1.7 percent to 125 francs as
the hearing-aid maker was downgraded to “equal weight” from
“overweight” at Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 