-- Picassos, Twomblys Mark Sellers’ Return as VIPs Hit Miami Basel
-- B y   L i n d s a y   P o l l o c k
-- 2010-12-02T17:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/picassos-rothkos-signal-return-of-top-sellers-as-vips-cruise-miami-basel.html
Billionaire art collectors Norman and
 Irma Braman  were hunting for major postwar artworks at the  Art
Basel Miami Beach  fair Wednesday afternoon. What’s important for
the art-market outlook: They were finding them.  “People are more confident with the economy,” said
Braman, 78, who did well with car dealerships. “And when the
economy is better, the sellers come out.” Indeed, sellers were
offering a flurry of Picassos, Rothkos and Twomblys priced at
more than $5 million.  New York collector Adam Lindemann, in town to promote his
new book, “ Collecting Design ,” also observed a bump in the
caliber of the art, as the market continues to recover from a
2008 plunge.  “Last year, dealers were somewhat anticipating weaker
sales,” Lindemann said. “Now they are bringing back better
art. It’s a stronger, better fair.”  Art Basel’s ninth Miami edition attracted 250 exhibitors
from 29 countries displaying modern and contemporary art by more
than 2,000 artists. In response to complaints last year about
the fair’s circular layout, stands in the Miami Beach Convention
Center have been reconfigured in an improved grid format,
incorporating faux-grassy knolls sprouting palm trees. Beyond
the convention center walls, 15 smaller fringe fairs are
scattered around town.  ‘Pumped Up’  Sales echoed what the recent New York auctions had
intimated: the uppermost tier of the art industry is chugging
along.  “People are pumped up. They have money they don’t know
what to do with,” said Houston Pop-art collector Frank Herzog,
who is leading tours coordinated by AXA Art Insurance Ltd.  During the opening hours, New York’s  Acquavella Galleries 
sold a prime 1956 painting by the late California painter
 Richard Diebenkorn  titled “Man Drawing.” The work was priced
around $5 million, according to dealers. The same painting had
sold at Sotheby’s in New York in 2005 for $2.1 million.  Acquavella was also offering a black-and-white Picasso oil
painting of a man smoking a pipe for $9.5 million and a $6
million Warhol painting of a fleet of Mercedes Benzes.  Zurich-based Galerie Gmurzynska sold an elegant 1959-60
electric-blue  Yves Klein  sculpture made from a sponge and priced
at $900,000. The stand caused a bigger frenzy when actors  George Hamilton  and  Danny Glover  and fashion designer Calvin Klein
posed there for paparazzi.  ‘I See the Rich’  Celebrities were in the minority, compared with the tanned,
Chanel-bagged set. “I see the rich, not the famous,” a London-
based dealer observed.  Steven A. Cohen, chairman and chief executive officer of
SAC Capital Advisors LP, bought two contemporary works for a
total of $480,000, according to a Wall Street Journal blog.  Several hours into the fair’s VIP opening, the Bramans were
empty-handed, but unlikely to remain so for long. At Art Basel’s
June edition in Switzerland, they secretly snagged a 1960
Picasso white plaster sculpture -- asking price $15 million --
according to dealers, as well as a Dan Flavin sculpture.  Back in Miami, New York’s L&M Arts gallery found a winner
in the young Los Angeles-based sculptor Thomas Houseago. Seven
of his raw, primal works, priced at less than $100,000 apiece,
sold swiftly.  The crowd was smaller this year during the first part of
the VIP preview, though fair organizers said they had
deliberately pruned back the invitation list.  “I’m not noticing as many young hedge-fund guys,” said
billionaire investor  Wilbur Ross , clad in khakis and running
sneakers, who said the crowd had reverted to the old-timers.
Ross skimmed e-mails on his BlackBerry during a lunch break at
the  UBS -sponsored lounge, amid orchids, quiche and antipasti.  Counting Skulls  He and his wife, Hilary, had spent the morning roving the
fair. Ross observed that prices were up 20-25 percent from last
year, wondering if the inflation was linked to the robust
results at the recent round of November New York auctions. Ross
also was heartened to see more “lighthearted and whimsical”
art.  “Last year, there was much more death and skull imagery,”
he said. “I don’t think I’ve seen one skull this year. I like
it better without the skulls.”  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Lindsay Pollock  in Miami at  lindsaypollock@yahoo.com ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 