-- Portman’s Bloody Ballerina Tears Hangnails; Barney’s Tale: Film
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2010-12-02T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/portman-s-bloody-ballerina-tears-hangnails-barney-s-tale-film.html
Ballet as blood sport hardly begins
to describe the audacious “Black Swan,” director  Darren Aronofsky ’s fever dream of paranoia, artistry and toe shoes.  Don’t be fooled by the rarefied milieu: “Black Swan” is
one of the best, lushest horror films since Kubrick's “ The 
Shining ,” worthy of every inevitable comparison to the high-
minded creep-outs of Cronenberg, Polanski and Lynch.  As a prima ballerina coming unglued from forces either
ghostly or psychotic,  Natalie Portman  justifies years of barely
earned praise. She’s as convincing in derangement as she is en
pointe.  Portman plays Nina, a New York City ballet dancer
poised to become a superstar after being cast in a new version
of “Swan Lake.” Under the guidance of the company’s
Balanchine-like taskmaster (portrayed without a false note by
 Vincent Cassel ), the technically proficient Nina is well-suited
for the virginal White Swan, but she’ll have to dig deep into
something dark to bring out her inner Black Swan.  Nina finds no respite from stress off stage. Her
domineering, embittered mother ( Barbara Hershey , her tight face
perfect for the sickest mom since “ Carrie ”) barely tries to
mask the cruelty beneath her attentiveness. A seemingly friendly
understudy (Mila Kunis, in an actress-is-born performance)
clearly has sinister motives.  Whatever real-world knives are pointed at Nina’s back are
nothing compared to the spectral dangers lurking about.
Portraits’ eyes move, reflections have lives of their own,
bloody scratches appear on Nina’s shoulder and disgusting little
black threads erupt from her skin.  Chinese Foot-Binding  Someone or something is out to get her. Aronofsky (“The
Wrestler”), with a screenplay by Mark Heyman, Andres Heinz and
John McLaughlin, doesn’t shy away from bump-in-the-night frights
or creaky Freudian hokum.  Bodily transformation, and the repulsion that goes with it,
has been the stuff of horror films from Lon Chaney through “ The
Exorcist .” Here, Aronofsky uses it to illuminate the physical
self-destruction done in the quest for artistic perfection.  He and cinematographer Matthew Libatique turn the elaborate
preparation and donning of ballet slippers into an act of
determined masochism, closer to Chinese foot-binding than
costume. A small imperfection of the finger, no larger than a
hangnail, is ripped from flesh like loose thread from a sweater.  “ Black Swan ” is as gross as it is frightening, and the
art-house pretensions don’t always keep up with the funhouse
excesses. So what? Leaving the theater, I heard the phrase
“over the top” in two separate conversations. A fair
assessment of any decent nightmare.  “Black Swan,” from Fox Searchlight Pictures, opens
tomorrow in New York, Los Angeles, Boston, Washington, Chicago,
Atlanta, Dallas, Houston and San Francisco. Rating: ***1/2  ‘Barney’s Version’  Barney Panofsky is the kind of cantankerous schlub only a
movie like “ Barney’s Version ” could love. He vomits on first
dates, has back hair so long it could be parted on the side,
meets the love of his life while blitzed at his own wedding and
may have committed murder during an alcoholic blackout.
Naturally, we’re supposed to love him.  And we almost do, thanks to  Paul Giamatti ’s beguiling
performance. But almost is thin compensation for 2 hours and 12
minutes of fitfully entertaining anti-charm.  Based on the comic novel by the late Canadian author
 Mordecai Richler  ( ”The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz ”),
“Barney’s Version” recounts the life of a paunchy, neurotic TV
producer in Montreal. Over four decades, he racks up three
failed marriages, a lucrative if unfulfilling career and the
notoriety of being a suspect in the long-ago disappearance of
his junkie best friend Boogie, well played by  Scott Speedman .  Minnie’s Princess  Richler’s novel is structured as a late-in-life remembrance
-- Barney’s version, literally. Unfortunately, screenwriter
Michael Konyves and director Richard J. Lewis have ditched the
autobiographical device, along with its suggestion of
unreliability.  If we knew we were getting an ex-husband’s skewed
perspective, we might excuse the delusion of Barney’s appeal or
the film’s Jewish stereotypes. ( Minnie Driver ’s wife No. 2 might
as well wear a princess tiara.)  One unconventional Jew is Barney’s father ( Dustin Hoffman ),
a crude retired cop. His tender relationship with Barney helps
make this version of Richler’s story worth watching.  “Barney’s Version,” from Sony Pictures Classics, opens a
one-week run tomorrow in New York and Los Angeles to qualify for
the Oscars and other awards. It will reopen Jan. 14 in New York
and Los Angeles. Rating: **  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 