-- Pound Resumes Drop Versus Euro; ECB Extending Stimulus Bolsters Sentiment
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-12-02T17:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/pound-trades-near-10-week-high-against-the-euro-before-ecb-s-rate-meeting.html
The pound dropped against the euro
after the European Central Bank decided to postpone its exit
from extraordinary stimulus measures to help stem Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  Sterling had recovered earlier against the single currency
after ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  refrained from
announcing so-called quantitative easing to support bonds of
nations such as Ireland and Spain, disappointing some traders.
The pound later resumed its descent.  Trichet  said the ECB will
delay withdrawing its current support until at least April to
combat “acute” market tensions. Sterling rose versus the euro
last month as investors sought a haven from euro assets, and
yesterday reached a two-month high.  “The fact that there is going to be this three-month
refinancing operation in some people’s minds does at least abate
the fears that the ECB are going to turn a blind eye to the
troubles in the euro zone,” said  Elizabeth Gregory , a market
strategist at ACM Advanced Currency Markets in Geneva.  The pound traded 0.8 percent lower at 84.76 pence per euro
as of 5.27 p.m. in London. It yesterday touched the strongest
since Sept. 20. Sterling slipped 0.1 percent versus the dollar
to $1.55604, after earlier declining 0.7 percent.  Trichet said the ECB will keep offering banks unlimited
loans through the first quarter. Seven-day, one-month and three-
month operations will be tied to the ECB’s benchmark rate, he
said at a press conference in Frankfurt. The bank left its key
rate at 1 percent for a nineteenth month.  ‘Inaction’  The bank’s “inaction” to prevent the spread of the euro
area’s debt woes will provide investors with little comfort,
according to High Frequency Economics Ltd.  U.K. government bonds fell, pushing the 10-year yield up
two basis points to 3.39 percent. The 4.75 percent security
maturing March 2020 fell 0.16, or 1.6 pounds per 1,000-pound
($1,560) face amount, to 110.74. The two-year note yield rose
one basis point to 1 percent.  Gilts have returned 6.8 percent this year, compared with a
7 percent gain for German bonds and 7.1 percent for U.S.
Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  Sterling has weakened 4.7 percent against a basket of its
developed-country peers this year, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the third-
worst-performing currency after the euro and Norwegian krone. It
has fallen 0.1 percent in the past month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 