-- Qantas in Talks With Rolls-Royce to Recoup Superjumbo Grounding Losses
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-12-02T08:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/qantas-in-talks-with-rolls-royce-to-recoup-superjumbo-grounding-losses.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. , Australia’s
largest airline, has begun talks with  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  to
recoup financial losses from the grounding of its Airbus SAS
A380 fleet after an engine malfunction last month, the carrier
said, adding it may sue if a settlement can’t be reached.  The Sydney-based airline filed a statement of claim in the
Federal Court of Australia today and won an injunction assuring
it can pursue a lawsuit in Australia, Tom Woodward, a Qantas
spokesman, said in a telephone interview. He said he couldn’t
provide a copy of the statement of claim.  “Today’s action allows Qantas to keep all options
available to the company to recover losses,” the airline said
in a statement.  Qantas resumed the A380 passenger services last week for
the first time since a Nov. 4 mid-flight explosion prompted a
23-day grounding of its six superjumbos. Singapore Airlines Ltd.
and Deutsche Lufthansa AG are the only other carriers using the
Rolls-Royce powerplant on the world’s largest passenger jet.  Qantas would probably prefer to settle its claim against
Rolls-Royce amicably and avoid litigation,  Justin McDonnell , a
partner at Mallesons Stephen Jaques in Brisbane who specializes
in aviation litigation, said in an interview before the airline
filed the suit.  “Qantas and Rolls-Royce will have an ongoing
relationship,” he said. “Rolls-Royce doesn’t want to be
involved in litigation with all their airlines.”  Rolls-Royce’s London press office didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  Qantas seeks to recover the losses from the grounding of
the jets as well as disruptions to its schedules, Woodward said.
He declined to say how much the airline wants Rolls-Royce to
pay.  Australia’s aviation regulator today recommended that
Rolls-Royce address a “critical safety issue” in the Trent 900
engines, prompting Qantas to intensify inspections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net . 