-- Qatar to Host 2022 World Cup, Topping U.S., Japan, Australia, South Korea
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-12-02T15:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/qatar-to-host-2022-world-cup-topping-u-s-japan-australia-south-korea.html
Qatar will host the 2022 World Cup,
overcoming concerns about high temperatures and lack of
infrastructure to become the first Arab country to hold the
most-watched sporting event.  Soccer ruling body FIFA announced the decision in Zurich
today. The U.S., Australia, Japan and South Korea were the
unsuccessful candidates. Russia was chosen to host the 2018
edition. The U.S. estimates that the tournament is worth $5
billion to the hosts.  Qatar, projected by the International Monetary Fund to have
the world’s fastest-growing economy this year, plans to more
than double the number of hotel rooms, build nine stadiums and
refurbish three others and construct a rail and metro network
for the tournament.  “It will probably be the fastest-growing economy in the
world for a sustained period,” said  Akber Khan , a director at
Al Rayan Investment in Doha. The World Cup “will significantly
accelerate massive infrastructure building in Qatar.”  Last month the gas-rich Persian Gulf state was the only
candidate country that FIFA inspectors ranked “high” in
overall operational risk, since it still needs to build most of
its accommodation and facilities. The inspectors also noted that
Qatar’s summer temperatures could pose a health risk to players,
officials and spectators.  Holder of the world’s third-largest gas reserves, Qatar is
using petroleum wealth to transform itself into a sports and
cultural capital with plans to invest $100 billion on
infrastructure projects in the next four years, Finance Minister
 Yousef Hussain Kamal  said in June.  Building, High Temperatures  The country plans to spend $4 billion on the stadium
construction and refurbishment program. With summer temperatures
approaching 50 degrees Celsius (122 Fahrenheit), each facility
will be designed with a solar-powered air-conditioning system.  The country plans to build a rail and metro network,
costing more than $25 billion, in Doha and extending to cities
outside the capital. It’s also planning the longest bridge in
the world to connect to the nearby island kingdom of Bahrain,
and aims to open a new airport next year.  A new 200,000-population city called Lusail, north of the
capital, is scheduled to be built over the next decade and will
feature the stadium that hosts the World Cup final.  Last month, FIFA suspended executive committee members Amos
Adamu from Nigeria and Tahiti’s Reynald Temarii, which reduced
the decision-making body to 22 members. London’s Sunday Times
said Oct. 17 that the pair indicated they would trade cash for
their support. They weren’t replaced before the vote on who
hosts the two World Cups after Brazil in 2014.  FIFA also said it didn’t find enough proof of a reported
pact between the Spain/Portugal and Qatar bids.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  