-- Qatar Air `Keen' to Add Flights in Latin America as Growth Boosts Travel
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2010-12-02T22:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/qatar-airways-keen-to-add-flights-in-latin-america-correct-.html
Qatar Airways Ltd. plans to expand in
Latin America, tapping into rising demand from Brazil and
Argentina for international flights, Chief Executive Officer
 Akbar Al-Baker  said.  “We are keen to expand in both Central and South
America,” Al-Baker said in an interview yesterday in Sao Paulo.
“Latin America is a sleeping economic giant. If Brazil,
Argentina and Chile get together, and we measure the economics
of these three countries, they are a huge powerhouse.”  Since the Doha-based state airline started a daily flight
in June that goes both to Sao Paulo and Buenos Aires, average
occupancy has been above 85 percent. Should the level remain
high, Al-Baker said, the company will split the route and create
a direct flight to each city.  Most travelers from Latin America use Doha as a connecting
hub for other cities served by Qatar Air and don’t have Doha as
a final destination, according to Al-Baker. This suits the
company’s strategy of servicing a hub that connects different
regions of the world, he said.  Qatar Air remains committed to Bombardier Inc.’s CSeries
regional plane, Al-Baker said, even after Airbus SAS said it
would put a new engine in its single-aisle aircraft, the A320.
He said the company is interested in the new plane, dubbed the
A320 Neo, but not for present orders.  Al-Baker said Qatar wouldn’t order the Neo as a replacement
for the CSeries, should the Canadian program fail to deliver,
because the aircraft are of different classes and the Airbus
model wouldn’t fit into the role Qatar wants for the Canadian
plane, he said.  Bombardier is “continuing to discuss” the CSeries with
Qatar Air,  Guy Hachey , president of the Montreal-based company’s
aerospace business, said yesterday on a conference call with
analysts.  Qatar Air was founded in 1994 and serves 95 destinations
worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jose Sergio Osse  in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  