-- U.S. House Votes 333-79 to Censure New York's Rangel on Ethics Violations
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-12-03T01:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/rangel-apologizes-for-making-serious-mistakes-update1-.html
The U.S. House censured Democratic
Representative  Charles Rangel  of New York for ethics violations,
including soliciting donations for an academic center bearing
his name and failing to fully pay his income taxes.  The vote was 333-79. Under the censure, Rangel stood on the
House floor as Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, read
the resolution outlining his violations.  A censure is a blemish on Rangel’s 40-year record in the
House, though it won’t keep him from continuing to serve. He was
re-elected Nov. 2 to a 21st term, winning 80 percent of the vote
in his Harlem-based district.  After Pelosi read the censure, Rangel told the chamber that
“even though it’s painful to accept the vote,” he is satisfied
he had proven that “at no time did it enter my mind to enrich
myself.”  “I know in my heart I am not going to be judged by this
Congress, but I am going to be judged by my life, my activities,
my contributions,” he said in a brief floor speech. “Compared
to where I’ve been,” he said, referring to his injuries in
battle during the Korean War, “I haven’t had a bad day since,”  Rangel, 80, is the first House member censured since 1983,
when the sanction was applied to Representatives Gerry Studds, a
Massachusetts Democrat, and Daniel Crane, an Illinois
Republican, for sexual misconduct with House pages.  ‘Serious Mistakes’  In comments to his colleagues before the censure vote
today, Rangel apologized for putting the House in an “awkward
position.” He said that he had made mistakes and deserved to be
sanctioned, though he believed that censure was too harsh.  “I have made serious mistakes,” Rangel said. “I brought
it on myself. But I still believe this body has to be guided by
fairness.”  Ethics committee chairwoman  Zoe Lofgren , a California
Democrat, praised Rangel’s four decades of service in the House
and his military service in Korea.  “Nothing will diminish his service to our country,”
Lofgren said on the House floor. “But that service does not
change the fact that Representative Rangel violated laws.”  The ethics committee -- formally known as the Committee on
Standards of Official Conduct -- voted Nov. 18 to recommend that
Rangel be censured and directed him to pay back taxes on rental
income from his villa in the Dominican Republic.  11 Violations  An ethics subcommittee found that Rangel committed 11
violations of House rules by using congressional stationery and
staff to seek donations for an  academic center named for him  at
City College of New York, by filing erroneous financial-
disclosure statements, failing to pay taxes for 17 years on
rental income, and by using a rent-controlled apartment as a
campaign office.  The violations were committed “on a continuous and
prolonged basis” and warranted “a strong congressional
response rebuking his behavior,” the full committee said in a
report to the House on Nov. 30.  Some lawmakers urged the lesser penalty of a reprimand for
their colleague, arguing that censuring him was unprecedented.  “If expulsion is the equivalent of the death penalty,
censure is life imprisonment,” said Representative  Peter King ,
a New York Republican. “Why today are we being asked to reverse
200 years of tradition?”  “Censure is not an appropriate sanction in this case,”
said Representative  Bobby Scott , a Virginia Democrat.  A motion to reprimand Rangel failed, 267-146.  At a news conference following the vote, Rangel said that
members were concerned about the response from their
constituents if they voted for a lesser penalty.  “We do know this is a political body,” he said. “I am
satisfied members voted their districts.”  Public Trust  A member of the ethics committee said censure was the
proper punishment.  “Public office is a public trust,” said Representative
 Michael McCaul , a Texas Republican. “Mr. Rangel violated that
trust.”  During the ethics committee proceedings last month, Rangel
argued that he did “nothing corrupt” and didn’t profit from
his actions. He gave up the chairmanship of the House Ways and
Means Committee in March after the ethics panel said he had
broken House rules by accepting corporate-sponsored travel.  Rangel boycotted the subcommittee hearing on his case after
it denied his request for a postponement because he lacked a
lawyer. He said he needed time to set up a legal defense fund
and raise money to pay an attorney. Rangel said he has spent
about $2 million on legal fees before the hearing and couldn’t
afford to pay more now.  Rangel won his House seat in 1970 after he defeated
Representative Adam Clayton Powell Jr. in that year’s Democratic
primary. Powell, first elected in 1944, was expelled from the
House in 1967 for reasons that included misuse of chamber funds.
He won a special election later that year and ultimately was re-
seated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 