-- Rapper Eminem Leads Grammy Nominations With 10, Including `Recovery' Album
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-12-02T18:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/rapper-eminem-leads-grammy-nominations-with-10-including-recovery-album.html
Eminem  received 10 Grammy
nominations, the most of any artist, including album of the year
for “Recovery,” which has sold more than 3 million copies.  The 38-year-old rapper, who records for  Universal Music
Group ’s Interscope Records, is also a finalist for best song of
the year, record of the year and best rap solo performance, the
Recording Academy announced yesterday on a  CBS Corp.  telecast.  Bruno Mars received seven nominations, including two in the
record-of-the-year category. Mars,  Katy Perry  and Justin Bieber
performed on the one-hour program, which was hosted by rapper
and actor LL Cool J. Exposure from award shows like the Grammys
can propel album sales,  Laura Martin , an analyst with Needham &
Co. in Pasadena, California, said in an interview.  “These big platforms still have a lot of value and drive
sales through sampling and discovery,” Martin said. “Being
nominated or performing on one of these shows can sometimes be
as good as actually winning.”  The show’s audience last night fell 20 percent to 5.1
million viewers compared with last year’s program, which drew
6.3 million, New York-based CBS said today in an e-mailed
statement, citing Nielsen Co. data. The awards will be handed
out at the Grammy Awards show on Feb. 13, which will also air on
CBS, the Recording Academy said in a statement.  Mars, the 25-year-old R&B performer, writer and producer
who records for  Warner Music Group Corp. ’s Elektra label, was
nominated in the record-of-the-year category for “Nothin’ on
You” with rapper B.o.B, and as part of the producing team for
 Cee Lo Green ’s “F*** You” -- also a song-of-the-year nominee.
Record of the year recognizes a track’s artists, engineers and
producers, while song of the year credits songwriters.  Three artists received six nominations: pop singer  Lady Gaga , hip-hop impresario Jay-Z, and country group Lady
Antebellum.  Lady Gaga  Lady Gaga, whose given name is Stefani Germanotta, was
nominated for album of the year for “The Fame Monster,” and
for best female pop vocal performance for “Bad Romance.” The
24-year-old singer, signed to  Vivendi SA ’s Universal Music, has
sold 1.35 million copies of “The Fame Monster,” released in
November 2009, according to data from Nielsen Soundscan.  Jay-Z’s collaboration with  Alicia Keys  for “Empire State
of Mind” and Lady Antebellum’s “Need You Now” were nominated
for record of the year, along with “Love the Way You Lie,” by
Eminem featuring Rihanna, and the Cee Lo and B.o.B entries.  Eminem, born Marshall Mathers III, has won 11 Grammys,
including best rap album for “Relapse” in 2009, 1999’s “The
Slim Shady LP” and “The Marshall Mathers LP”  in 2000 .  “Recovery,” released in June, will compete for album of
the year with “The Suburbs,” from Arcade Fire, “Need You
Now,” “Fame Monster” and “Teenage Dream,” from Katy Perry.  Teen Star  Bieber, the teen star who gained prominence on  Google
Inc. ’s YouTube, was nominated for best new artist, along with
the rapper Drake, rock bands Florence & the Machine and Mumford
& Sons, and jazz artist Esperanza Spalding.  Artists who released albums between Sept. 1, 2009 and Sept.
30, 2010 are eligible for the 53rd annual Grammys. Ballots are
due Jan. 12, when they will be tabulated ahead of the awards
show, according to the Recording Academy.  NOMINEES IN TOP CATEGORIES:  ALBUM OF THE YEAR: * The Suburbs -- Arcade Fire * Recovery --
Eminem * Need You Now -- Lady Antebellum * The Fame Monster --
Lady Gaga * Teenage Dream -- Katy Perry  RECORD OF THE YEAR: * Nothin’ On You -- B.o.B featuring Bruno
Mars * Love the Way You Lie -- Eminem featuring Rihanna * F***
You -- Cee Lo Green * Empire State of Mind -- Jay-Z & Alicia
Keys * Need You Now -- Lady Antebellum  SONG OF THE YEAR: * Beg Steal or Borrow --  Ray LaMontagne ,
songwriter (performed by Ray LaMontagne and the Pariah Dogs) *
F*** You -- Cee Lo Green, Philip Lawrence & Bruno Mars,
songwriters (performed by Cee Lo Green) * The House That Built
Me -- Tom Douglas & Allen Shamblin, songwriters (performed by
Miranda Lambert) * Love the Way You Lie -- Alexander Grant,
Skylar Grey & Marshall Mathers, songwriters (performed by Eminem
featuring Rihanna) * Need You Now -- Dave Haywood, Josh Kear,
Charles Kelley & Hillary Scott, songwriters (performed by Lady
Antebellum)  BEST NEW ARTIST: * Justin Bieber * Drake * Florence & the
Machine * Mumford & Sons * Esperanza Spalding  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ; 