-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Reaches 4-Month High Before U.S. Employment Report
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-12-02T22:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/treasuries-erase-declines-after-10-year-note-yield-reaches-four-month-high.html
Treasuries fell, pushing the 10-year
note  yield  above 3 percent for the first time since July, before
of a report tomorrow forecast to show more gains in U.S.
employment, fueling demand for assets linked to growth.  U.S. securities declined after an unexpected increase in
home sales added to evidence of a faster economic expansion.
U.S. payrolls may have increased in November for a second month,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. The Federal Reserve bought
more Treasuries and the European Central Bank refrained from
providing any additional steps to address the region’s financial
crisis.  “The market is waiting for Friday’s employment report to
determine where we are, and seeing how far we’ve come on the
labor front,” said  Larry Milstein , managing director in New
York of government and agency debt trading at R.W. Pressprich &
Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional
investors. “The ongoing euro crisis and the Fed purchases will
keep a lid on how far Treasuries can fall in the near term.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes rose three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.99 percent at 5:04 p.m. in New
York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625
percent security maturing in November 2020 fell 7/32, or $2.19
per $1,000 face amount, to 96 27/32.  High Touch  The 10-year note yield touched 3.0257 percent, the highest
since July 29. The  yield  increased 17 basis points yesterday,
the most since Nov. 15, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Fed bought $8.3 billion of Treasuries maturing from
February 2018 to August 2020 as part of its plan to pump $600
billion into the economy through June, according to the New York
Fed’s website. The central bank has purchased $27.5 billion of
U.S. securities this week and plans to buy more tomorrow.  Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said a recent increase in market interest rates doesn’t mean the
central bank’s expansion of monetary stimulus is failing.  While the program “puts downward pressure” on rates,
successful policy would generate faster growth and higher real
interest rates while also increasing inflation expectations,
Bullard said in a presentation in Washington.  Economy Watch  The index of pending home resales gained 10 percent after
dropping 1.8 percent in September, the National Association of
Realtors said today in Washington. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a 1 percent decrease. The
group’s data go back to 2001.  Jobless claims increased by 26,000 to 436,000 in the week
ended Nov. 27, Labor Department figures showed in Washington.
Employment in the U.S. rose in November for the second month in
a row, with payrolls rising 150,000 a Labor Department report
will show Dec. 3, according to a Bloomberg News survey of 87
economists.  “The data has been constructive and is starting to signal
that we’ve turned a corner in the recovery, but European issues
are still giving the market some support,” Said  Christian Cooper , head of U.S. dollar derivatives trading in New York at
Jefferies Group Inc., one of the 18 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed. “The market is responding to a mixed bag of data
and headline news out of Europe.”  ECB Stance  ECB policy makers meeting in Frankfurt kept the benchmark
interest rate at a record low of 1 percent. ECB President  Jean- Claude Trichet  said the ECB will delay its withdrawal of
emergency liquidity measures to combat “acute” market
tensions.  Ireland on Nov. 28 became the second country to tap European
assistance, following Greece, prompting a flight to quality amid
speculation that the country’s funding crisis may spread to
Portugal and Spain. The Irish rescue package is worth 85 billion
euros ($112 billion).  The 10-year Treasury note is a “buying opportunity”  in
the short term, said  Michael Cloherty , head of U.S. rates
strategy for fixed income and currencies at the primary dealer
Royal Bank of Canada in New York. The European situation
“should get some flight-to-quality bid coming in.”  Next week’s government debt sales will include $32 billion
of three-year notes on Dec. 7, $21 billion of 10-year securities
the following day and $13 billion of 30-year bonds on Dec. 9,
matching a forecast by Wrightson ICAP LLC, an economic advisory
company in Jersey City, New Jersey, that specializes in
government finance. The $66 billion total would compare with $72
billion at the previous sale of the same maturities in November.  Ten-year rates will rise to 3.23 percent by the end of
2011, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  The difference in yield, or the  spread , between 10- and 30-
year Treasury notes narrowed to near a one-month low, touching
127 basis points, down from a record of 160 basis points on Nov.
10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 