-- Kyl Joins Republicans Opening Up to Passage of Nuclear Treaty With Russia
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-12-03T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/republicans-signal-support-for-nuclear-arms-treaty-with-russia.html
Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl  became the
latest Republican to show a willingness to support a new arms
control treaty with Russia by the end of the year even as his
party vowed to block nearly all business in the chamber.  “If we can get this tax issue done and get the spending for
the government accomplished, then there might be time to do it,”
Kyl said on Fox News Channel’s “On the Record with  Greta Van Susteren ” program yesterday.  Republican leaders have stalled consideration of the new
 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty , vowing to block passage of all
bills until Congress takes up legislation extending the 2001 and
2003 tax cuts and passes a stopgap funding bill to keep the
federal government operating until appropriations measures for
fiscal year 2011 are enacted.  Kyl, the chamber’s No. 2 Republican, cited on Nov. 16
“complex and unresolved” issues for why the new START would be
unlikely to pass in the current lame-duck session. Since then,
Republicans have come forward and indicated that they would be
open to support the nuclear agreement once their tax and
spending priorities were addressed.  “Everything is going in a very constructive way,” Senator
 Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, told reporters. “We still
have the details to be worked out but they are being worked on”
and “there is a real possibility as to it happening this year.”  Senate approval of a resolution supporting ratification of
the accord would award a significant victory to President  Barack Obama , who considers the treaty the top foreign policy priority
of his administration for this congressional session.  ‘Open To It’  “I’m open to it,” Senator  Lamar Alexander  of Tennessee said
in an interview. “The administration has made some important
steps in the right direction” toward resolving Republican
concerns, he said.  “It’s a two-step process: We do taxes and then we do
START,” said Senator  Richard Lugar  of Indiana, the top
Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  The START agreement, signed by Obama and Russian President
 Dmitry Medvedev  in April, would cut each country’s deployed
nuclear warheads by about a third, to a maximum of 1,550, and
would allow both nations to resume on-site inspections. The
previous treaty expired in December 2009.  Several Republicans indicated this week that talks were
progressing.  Robert Bennett  of Utah, who is retiring at the end of the
year, said he wanted to see what “wrangling” over the
ratification resolution produced before saying how he would vote.
Still, he described himself as “generally disposed to”
approving ratification of the treaty.  ‘Move Forward’  “I believe we can move forward with the START treaty and
satisfy Senator Kyl’s concerns and mine about missile defense
and others,” Senator  John McCain  of Arizona said on ABC’s “Good
Morning America” program.  Two-thirds of the senators present and voting are needed to
approve ratification. If all 100 senators are in the chamber,
nine Republicans would have to join with Democrats to reach 67
votes. Three Republicans supported the treaty in a Sept. 16 vote
in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. So far, only Lugar
has said he would definitely support the treaty in the full
Senate.  Ratification of each of the last three arms-reduction
treaties was approved with more than 90 votes.  Democrats suggested yesterday that the treaty’s chances for
ratification in the next month were improving. “The START
treaty will be done by Christmas,” White House press secretary
 Robert Gibbs  said on CBS’s “Early Show.”  Colin Powell’s Support  Obama urged passage of the treaty after a Dec. 1 meeting
with  Colin Powell , former secretary of state under President
 George W. Bush  and a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff.  “Now it’s time to get this done,” the president said.
“It is important for us to make sure we complete the evaluation
process, we finish the debate and we go ahead and finish this up
before the end of the year.”  In recent weeks, the White House has brought in officials
from previous administrations, both Democratic and Republican,
to endorse the pact. Last month, Obama met at the White House
with  James Baker , President  George H.W. Bush ’s secretary of
State;  Henry Kissinger , secretary of state under Presidents
 Richard Nixon  and  Gerald Ford ; and  Madeleine Albright , President
 Bill Clinton ’s secretary of state.  ‘Compelling Reasons’  In an opinion article in yesterday’s Washington Post,
Powell, Baker, Kissinger and two other Republican secretaries of
state --  George P. Schultz , who served under President  Ronald Reagan , and  Lawrence Eagleburger , who also worked for President
George H.W. Bush -- wrote there are “compelling reasons” for
their party to approve ratification.  Russia plans to build up its nuclear forces if the U.S.
fails to ratify the treaty, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said
in an interview on CNN’s “ Larry King  Live” two days ago.  “Russia will have to ensure her own security through
different means” if its proposals are “met with negative
answers only,” Putin said. The U.S. and Russia must “agree on
a joint effort.”  Senator  John Kerry  of Massachusetts, the chairman of the
Foreign Relations Committee, said Democrats were eager to
approve ratification.  “There’s a very vocal group of senators who believe this
needs to be taken up now,” Kerry told reporters Nov. 30. “What
we need to do is carve out space to get it done even as we do
some of the other business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 