-- LeBron James's Return Spurs Cleveland Fans to Open Their Wallets, Not Arms
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-12-02T05:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/return-of-lebron-james-spurs-cleveland-fans-to-open-their-wallets-not-arms.html
LeBron James  may have deprived the
Cleveland Cavaliers of an All-Star and created a marketing
opportunity.  Prices for resold tickets have more than quadrupled for
Cleveland’s first meeting with the Miami Heat, the team that
James left the Cavaliers for as a free agent before this season,
according to online ticket reseller  StubHub.com . James, a native
of Akron, Ohio, who had spent his entire career with the
Cavaliers, announced his move to join fellow All-Stars  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh  in a nationally televised show, “The
Decision,” on ESPN, leaving dejected Cavs fans to burn replica
jerseys of the player they had called “The Chosen 1.”  The National Basketball Association and the Cavaliers have
heightened security at Quicken Loans Arena and warned fans
against inappropriate behavior as Clevelanders finally get to
confront their former hometown hero.  “I would not bring a young child, because they’re going to
learn a lot of new words,” said Mitchell Marks, a 50-year-old
season-ticket holder from Chagrin Falls, Ohio. “This is a tough
town, they take their sports seriously here, it’s going to be
loud and he deserves it.”  Stubhub tickets are going for more than 300 percent higher
than the $50 they’ve averaged for Cavaliers home games this
season.  The average price has fallen to $209 from $234 last week,
“but it is still the most expensive regular-season Cavs home
game in Stubhub history,”  Glenn Lehrman , a spokesman for  EBay
Inc .’s StubHub, founded in 2000, said in an e-mail.  Beefed Up Security  The Cavaliers have worked with the NBA and city officials
to beef up security since the league’s schedule was announced in
August. The NBA wouldn’t release specifics of its security
plans.  “We are taking appropriate security measures,” spokesman
 Tim Frank  said in an e-mail.  Fans have been asked not to bring signs or wear clothing
that display obscenities or vulgarity toward James or his
family, according to Cavaliers spokesman Tad Carper.  “That’s not a change, that’s just standard operating
procedure that might be more relevant Thursday night than it
typically is,” Carper said in a telephone interview. “We
understand people want to express themselves and that’s
perfectly allowable. We’re not going to create a police state
here.”  Police Near Bench  Uniformed and undercover police will be stationed near
Miami’s bench and throughout the route that leads to its locker
room, while beer vendors will forgo plastic bottles in favor of
pouring into cups to prevent their use as projectiles.  “The only return that maybe generated this type of
animosity was  Roger Clemens  coming back to Boston,” TNT NBA
analyst  Steve Kerr , who will call the game with  Marv Albert  and
 Reggie Miller , said in a telephone interview. “He left in an
awkward fashion, they hadn’t won a championship and he was
supposed to be a lifelong Red Sox player. I don’t think anything
else can quite compare to what we’re going to see.”  Cavaliers owner  Dan Gilbert  reacted to the departure of
James, the reigning two-time NBA Most Valuable Player, with a
July 8 letter posted on the team’s website. It called the
buildup to the move “narcissistic” and his final decision a
“cowardly betrayal.” Gilbert was fined $100,000 by the NBA for
the comments.  ‘Fantastic’ Remarks  Marks, whose family has had season tickets since the
franchise’s second campaign in 1971-72, called Gilbert’s remarks
“absolutely fantastic.”  “It was the best hundred grand he ever spent,” Marks, who
owns a voice and data telecommunications service, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s on my refrigerator.”  The Heat’s stay in Cleveland will be brief. After arriving
early today following a 97-72 home win against the Detroit
Pistons last night, Miami will have a walkthrough practice at
their hotel and head straight to the airport after the game.  Miami is 11-8 and 3 1/2 games behind the Orlando Magic (14-
4) in the Southeast Division. After entering the season as a 17-
10 favorite to win their first title since 2006, the Heat’s odds
have widened to 5-2, or 25-10, making them second favorite
behind the Los Angeles Lakers, who have 19-10 odds, according to
gambling website  Bodog.com .  Spoelstra Criticized  After losing four of five games on Nov. 20-27, criticism
was directed at Heat coach Erik Spoelstra, 40, the second-
youngest coach in the NBA.  “I call these ‘healthy conflicts,’” Spoelstra told ESPN
after a Nov. 29 meeting with James. “I truly believe these are
good for a team. As long as you can survive these, it’ll make
you stronger.”  Oddsmakers estimate there’s a 58 percent chance that
Spoelstra will be fired as Miami’s coach before the end of this
season, according to RJ Bell, president of  Pregame.com .  Bell, whose handicapping information website is the largest
compliant with U.S. laws, takes into account the betting lines
at offshore sports gambling websites such as Bodog.com in
determining the probability of Spoelstra being back for a third
season.  ‘Slow Offensive System’  “The tough part for Erik is that he was raised in that
Miami system, which is very much a slow offensive system,” said
Kerr, who won five NBA titles during his 15 seasons as a player
-- three with the  Michael Jordan -led Chicago Bulls and two with
the San Antonio Spurs. “The pieces on this team probably need
to run a little bit more. So, there’s an adjustment for Erik as
well as the players.”  Any Heat struggles, such as the Spoelstra discussion, is
good news to Marks, who said Cleveland fans will never forgive
James’s departure.  “He betrayed the franchise, the city and most importantly
he betrayed himself, in the sense that he had a chance to do
something very special here, and he ran away from the
challenge,” Marks said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  