-- Trichet `Held Hostage' as Markets Heap Pressure on ECB to Act
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-12-02T11:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/trichet-held-hostage-as-markets-pressure-ecb-to-intensify-crisis-fight.html
The last time  Jean-Claude Trichet 
refused to bow to market pressure, he was forced into a U-turn.
This time the stakes may be even higher.  With the euro zone’s sovereign debt crisis now threatening
to engulf Spain, its fourth-largest economy, investors are again
looking for the President of the European Central Bank to do
something to stop it, such as delaying the withdrawal of
unlimited liquidity support for banks and significantly ramping
up its bond purchases. The risk is that the ECB becomes a bail-
out tool for politicians -- damaging its independence -- the
very scenario Trichet wanted to avoid when he was pressed into
the unprecedented step of buying government debt in May.  “To some extent the ECB is being held hostage by financial
markets,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-region economist at
Citigroup Inc. in London. “As the existing measures are
unlikely to be sufficient to solve the problems in the
periphery, the ECB probably will be forced to increase its
programs substantially.”  On May 6, as Greece’s budget crisis was fueling investor
concerns about the fiscal health of other euro-area nations,
Trichet resisted pressure to employ new measures, saying it was
up to governments to lead the way. That lack of action triggered
a bond-market selloff, forcing the ECB to tear up its rule book
and provoking a split on its Governing Council.  Contagion  Trichet finds himself in a similar position today after the
European Union-led rescue package for Ireland failed to convince
investors that policy makers have the tools required, or the
resolve needed, to contain the crisis, prompting them to dump
 Irish ,  Greek ,  Portuguese , Spanish and Belgian assets.  ECB policy makers meeting in Frankfurt today will keep the
 benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent, according
to all 52 economists in a  Bloomberg survey . That decision is due
at 1:45 p.m. and Trichet holds a press conference 45 minutes
later.  Bonds, stocks and the euro rallied yesterday as markets
interpreted a comment from Trichet as a signal policy makers may
step up their response. Trichet told the European Parliament
late on Nov. 30 that some investors are underestimating
governments’ determination to defend financial stability in the
currency bloc.  The euro rebounded above $1.31 to trade at $1.3191 at 12:22
in Frankfurt today.  Spanish  10-year government bonds snapped an
11-day drop, sending the yield down to 5.20 percent from 5.50
percent on Nov. 30. That’s still 238 basis points more than the
yield on comparable German bunds and close to a euro-era high of
283 basis points.  Political Pressure  It would be “more than reasonable” for the ECB to buy
Spanish government bonds, Efe newswire quoted Spanish Industry
Minister  Miguel Sebastian  as saying yesterday. He said
purchasing debt was “within the orthodoxy” of central banks
and the Bank of England and Federal Reserve are following such a
policy, Efe reported from Moscow.  Increasing its bond purchases, or resorting to outright
quantitative easing by failing to sterilize them, would see the
ECB take more risk onto its balance sheet and open itself to the
charge it’s financing profligate nations.  Such steps may be resisted by a group on the ECB’s 22-
member Governing Council led by Bundesbank President  Axel Weber ,
the leading contender to replace Trichet at the bank’s helm next
year.  Weber opposed the bond program when it was announced on May
10 and has since called for it to be cancelled, saying it
involves “stability risks” and there’s no evidence it works.  ‘A Job For Politicians’  “The risk associated with bond purchases is that the
credit risk does not disappear,” said  Holger Sandte , chief
European economist at WestLB Equity Markets in Dusseldorf. “If
the worst comes to the worst, the ECB has all these risks on its
balance sheet. It’s really a job for politicians to rescue
sovereigns.”  Weber and policy makers such as ECB Executive Board member
 Juergen Stark  are also pushing for the bank to resume its
withdrawal of cheap loans to banks as the economy improves. The
phasing out of the liquidity measures “will continue” after
the end of the year, Stark said on Nov. 16.  The ECB publishes its latest projections today. They may
show the euro area’s recovery continuing next year as Germany,
the region’s largest economy, prospers from export demand and
rising household spending.  Next Exit Step  The ECB currently offers banks as much cash as they need at
its benchmark rate for periods of one week, one month and three
months. Last month, Trichet said the ECB will announce further
steps in its exit from unconventional measures in December due
to concerns that banks are becoming “addicted” to the abundant
liquidity.  The next likely step in the exit would be announcing a
return to an auction procedure for the three-month loans, said
 Klaus Baader , co-chief euro-area economist at Societe Generale
in London. That could limit the amount banks are able to borrow
and result in a higher interest rate.  “The ECB is dead set on unwinding measures” so a
discontinuation of the full allotment in its three-month
refinancing operations “is still likely, although a close
call,” said Baader. “They could give a clear date so the
decision is taken, but not implemented immediately. That’s a
compromise that would be beneficial to all.”  Still, even a move in that direction risks further
unnerving investors and exacerbating market tensions, said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area economist at BNP Paribas in London.
“If the ECB really goes ahead with the exit or even just
signals it will proceed with the exit, it will add to alarm.”  ‘Heart Attack’  Morgan Stanley economists  Joachim Fels  and  Elga Bartsch 
said in a research note that there’s a “good chance” the ECB
will reverse its exit and reintroduce unlimited 12-month loans
to banks.  Saying it will buy more government debt would also calm
markets, said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Joh
Berenberg Gossler & Co. in London.  The ECB has already stepped up its activity, last week
buying the most bonds in two months. Yesterday it bought Irish
government bonds in bigger amounts than it typically does,
according to two people with knowledge of the transactions.  Overall purchases  so far total 67 billion euros ($88
billion), well below the amounts bought by the Bank of England
and the Fed.  “To avoid the risk of a market panic the ECB can do more
and should buy more government bonds,” said Schmieding. “If
the patient is in danger of a heart attack, a medicine with side
effects is justified.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  