-- Rolta May Return to Profit Growth This Year on Indian Defense Contracts
-- B y   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 2010-12-02T05:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/rolta-may-return-to-profit-growth-this-year-on-indian-defense-contracts.html
Rolta India Ltd.,  a maker of software
for companies such as Chevron Phillips Chemical Co., expects to
return to a profit growth this year on increased demand for its
products from India’s military.  Net income may rise 15 percent in the year ending March 31,
said  Hiranya Ashar , chief financial officer at the Mumbai-based
Rolta. The company’s  profit  fell 13 percent last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  India’s defense spending on technology may triple to “$3
billion in the next seven to 10 years,” Ashar  said in a phone
interview today. “India’s defense budget may increase by up to
10 percent each year and most of the money will be spend on
upgrading technology.”  The south Asian nation will spend 1.47 trillion rupees ($32
billion) on defense this year, triple its 2000 outlay. India’s
defense procurement budget is forecast to reach $42 billion by
2015, according to a  report  by Deloitte LLP.  Rolta makes software for India’s battlefield management
system, tactical communication system and the digital soldier
program, according to the company’s annual  report .  “The growth in geospatial and geographic information,
including defense, and Rolta’s decision to stop sourcing
software from third party vendors will help,” boost its profit,
Vikas Jain, analyst at Shah Investor’s Home Ltd. in Mumbai, said
by phone. “Revenue from software licensing and maintenance will
also start getting reflected.”  Rolta  shares , which have declined 16 percent this year,
gained 1.2 percent in Mumbai to 164.5 rupees at 10:14 a.m.  The geospatial and geographic information software, that is
used to make digital maps and defense systems, accounts for more
than 50 percent of the revenue.  India contributes 59 percent of Rolta’s total revenue and
North America follows with 29 percent, he said. Rolta had orders
worth 18 billion rupees until Sept. 30, and is looking to buy
software technology for about $15 million from a company in
defense sector, Ashar said, without elaboration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell in Mumbai at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  