-- Romania's Economic Slump Deepened Last Quarter With EU's 2nd-Biggest Drop
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2010-12-02T11:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/romania-s-economic-slump-deepened-third-quarter-on-demand-drop.html
Romania extended its economic
contraction to a seventh quarter with the second-biggest slump
in the European Union after Greece as a tax increase and wage
cuts sapped demand, pointing to a “sluggish” recovery in 2011.  Gross domestic product contracted 2.5 percent from a year
earlier, compared with Greece’s 4.5 drop and a 0.5 percent
decline in the second quarter, according to final data released
today by the  National Statistics Institute  in Bucharest. The
economy shrank 0.7 percent from the second quarter, when it grew
for the first time since 2008.  Romania, which took an  International Monetary Fund -led
bailout last year, is missing out on Europe’s economic recovery
because the government raised taxes and cut spending to qualify
for the terms of the loan. The plunge in consumer demand means
that the country will take longer to return to growth than
others in the region, analysts said.  “The recovery will be pretty sluggish and very much slower
than the pre-crisis levels,”  Neil Shearing , an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd., said in a phone interview from London.
“The next couple of years will be very difficult for Romania
because every country in the world is looking for an export-
driven economy but not everyone can have one.”  Taxes, Wages  The government raised the value-added tax by 5 percentage
points and cut public wages by 25 percent to narrow the budget
gap to 6.8 percent of GDP this year and 4.4 percent in 2011,
adding to the worst recession in 20 years. The economy will
shrink in 2010 after plummeting 7.1 percent in 2009, IMF Mission
Chief  Jeffrey Franks  said Nov. 1.  Romania’s recession erased the country’s 2008 economic
expansion, when a credit-fuelled consumption boom made it the
EU’s fastest-growing nation. Demand slumped an annual 1.9
percent and construction output plunged 13 percent in the first
nine months of this year, the statistics office said.  Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Serbia and
Ukraine posted growth ranging from 0.2 percent to as much as 4.2
percent in the third quarter.  The leu benefited less than other regional currencies from
optimism the European Central Bank will act to stem the euro
region’s debt crisis. Romania’s currency gained 0.1 percent as
of 1:18 p.m. in Bucharest, compared with 0.4 percent for the
Hungarian forint and 0.3 percent for the Czech koruna.  Romania’s “recovery continues to lag its regional peers due
to the fiscal austerity and the ongoing restructuring of private
sector, as consumption and investment fell again,” said
 Raffaella Tenconi , an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
in London, in an e-mail.  Tenconi cut her forecast for Romania’s economy to a 2
percent contraction this year, matching Shearing at Capital. In
2011, GDP may grow 1.5 percent, rather than the previous
estimate of 2.5 percent, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  