-- Rural Growth Risk Accelerates Lending Rules for Microfinance: India Credit
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2010-12-03T05:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/rural-growth-risk-accelerates-lending-rules-for-microfinance-india-credit.html
India is accelerating national
microfinance regulations after a local government ruling
crippled financing for the industry and contributed to a jump in
the cost of insuring bank debt against default.  A Reserve Bank of India panel will submit recommendations
by January, which the Ministry of Finance will use to introduce
the first Micro Finance Bill as early as March. SE Investments
India Ltd., the nation’s second-biggest listed microlender, said
Andhra Pradesh state’s crackdown on lending methods in the 225
billion rupee ($5 billion) market will result in a “death
blow” if remedial measures aren’t taken immediately.  “The success of the microfinance process is imperative,”
 Sunil Agarwal , a managing director at SE Investments in New
Delhi, said in a Nov. 26 interview. That’s needed “to achieve
what the government has planned for the section of the
population that has no access to any kind of formal credit,”
Agarwal said.  Credit-default swaps tied to the debt of State Bank of
India, the nation’s biggest lender and a proxy for sovereign
bonds, jumped 24 basis points from a six-month low on Nov. 8 to
179 Dec. 1, according to CMA prices. Contracts used to insure
bonds of the second-largest, ICICI Bank Ltd., climbed 26 to
213.9.  The rupee weakened 3.2 percent last month after the
microfinance industry seizure, a bribery probe into developer
lending and a mobile phone licensing scandal.  Three-Year Plans  India’s central bank asked lenders to make three-year plans
to provide banking services to the 145 million households that
don’t have access, Deputy Governor  K.C. Chakrabarty  said Nov.
27. The amount of loans outstanding as of Sept. 30 involved 25
million people, compared with 40 billion rupees to 8 million
people in 2007, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India Pvt. estimates.  Elsewhere in India’s credit markets, the yield on India’s
10-year bonds was poised for its biggest weekly increase since
August. The rupee headed its biggest weekly gain in two months.  Videocon Industries Ltd. is selling $200 million of
 convertible  bonds. The consumer electronics maker hired Credit
Suisse Group AG and Standard Chartered Plc to manage the sale,
 Suresh Hegde , Videocon’s finance chief, said in a phone
interview from Mumbai yesterday. The last convertible sale by an
Indian company was in July, when  Shiv-Vani Oil & Gas Exploration
Services Ltd. , a New Delhi-based energy firm, sold $80 million
of the securities.  Down From 2009  Indian firms raised $1.4 billion selling convertibles this
year, compared with $3.9 billion in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance was $424 million in 2008, the
lowest since 2003.  The yield on India’s 7.8 percent note due May 2020 has
climbed 12 basis points this week to 8.09 percent, heading for
the biggest increase since August, according to the central
bank’s trading system. The yield is 513 basis points, or 5.13
percentage points, above Treasuries. Comparable rates in Brazil
and China were 12.53 percent and 3.94 percent, respectively.  The rupee climbed 1.6 percent this week to 45.11 per dollar
as of 10:13 a.m. in Mumbai. The rupee earlier reached 45.105,
the highest since Nov. 26 and set for its best week since Oct.
1.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value for the
underlying securities or cash equivalent if a borrower fails to
adhere to debt agreements. A basis point is $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  New Rules  On Oct. 15 the southern Andhra Pradesh state waived
microfinance loans where a sum of twice the principal had been
repaid, ordered collections by lenders at specific offices, and
asked microfinance institutions to register with state
authorities, the government said on its website.  Banks that provide funding to microfinance lenders, who are
banned from taking deposits, stopped loans nationwide in
response to the rules, Royston Braganza, chief executive officer
at Grameen Capital India Ltd., said Dec. 1.  The government will introduce the Micro Finance
(Development & Regulation) Bill, 2010, after central bank
recommendations,  Namo Narain Meena , junior finance minister,
said in a written statement to Parliament on Nov. 23.  “The RBI is absolutely passionate about financial
inclusion,” said Braganza at Grameen. “Large economies are
betting that India and China will be growth engines, and there
is no reason why local micro-entrepreneurs should not get the
benefit of plugging into the global economy.”  SKS Tumbles  SKS Microfinance Ltd. , the biggest microlender, has dropped
35 percent since Oct. 16 to 714 rupees after the company sold
shares at a price of 985 rupees in its initial public offering
in August.  “The microfinance model is extremely important,” said S.
Sridhar, chairman and managing director of state-owned Central
Bank of India. The nation’s “interiors are credit-starved.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  wants to sustain more than 9
percent economic growth for at least three decades to help
reduce the 828 million Indians that live on less than $2 a day,
according to World Bank estimates. The $1.3 trillion economy
expanded 8.9 percent in the September quarter, the government
said Nov. 30.  Microfinance is the best way for rural consumers, who
account for 7.8 percent of gross domestic product, to get access
to funds to boost farming and village industry,  Rupa Rege Nitsure , an economist at state-owned Bank of Baroda, said in
Mumbai yesterday.  Axis Bank said about 22 percent of its 13 billion rupees in
outstanding microcredit is in Andhra Pradesh.  “We are lending to the microfinance firms where they need
assistance,”  Somnath Sengupta , the Chief Financial Officer at
Axis in Mumbai, said in an interview on Nov. 23. “But we are
selective about it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai
at   Aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  