-- Russia, Qatar to Host 2018, 2022 World Cups as Emerging Economies Win Bids
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-12-02T16:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/russia-to-host-2018-world-cup-putin-lands-third-sports-trophy.html
Russia and Qatar won rights to host
World Cups in 2018 and 2022 as soccer’s governing body voted to
hold the events in emerging markets.  FIFA awarded the tournaments today after a secret vote at
its headquarters in Zurich. Russia beat England and joint bids
from Portugal-Spain and the Netherlands-Belgium for 2018, while
the Qataris defeated the U.S., Japan, South Korea and Australia
for the event four years later.  The decision means that FIFA will hold the world’s most-
watched sporting event in developing nations four times in a
row. South Africa held the World Cup this year, and Brazil is
preparing for the 2014 tournament. The next two events will be
held in Eastern Europe and the Middle East for the first time.
Russia had to overcome concerns about its size and ability to
build stadiums, while the Qatar bid, the only one with a “high
risk” rating from FIFA, will air-condition stadiums to deal
with temperatures of 46 degrees centigrade (115 degrees
Fahrenheit).  “Thank you for believing in change, thank you for
expanding the game and thank you for giving Qatar a chance,”
the country’s bid chairman, Sheikh Mohammed bin Hamad Al-Thani,
said after the victory. “We will not let you down.”  The Russian victory gives Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  his
third success in attracting global sports events to boost the
economy and rebuild the country’s image as an athletic
superpower.  Putin didn’t attend the ceremony, though his spokesman,
 Dmitry Peskov , said earlier today that the prime minister would
fly to Zurich if Russia’s bid was successful, RIA Novosti
reported. First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  headed the
Russian delegation.  Making History  “You have entrusted us with the FIFA World Cup for 2018
and I can promise, we all can promise, you will never regret
it,” Shuvalov said today to FIFA delegates. “Let us make
history together.”  Putin’s drive to bring the World Cup to Russia came after
he delivered the 2014 Winter Olympics and a Formula 1 Grand Prix
car race starting in 2014, both to be held in the Black Sea
resort of Sochi.  Hosting the tournament is worth about $5 billion, according
to U.S. estimates. For Russia, FIFA’s decision may speed
infrastructure development and boost shares of airlines and
steelmakers, though it could cost “tens of billions” of
dollars to pull off, analysts said.  ‘Major Upgrades’  Russia’s bid includes construction of 13 stadiums and
renovation of three more at a projected cost of $3.8 billion and
an operating budget of $641 million for 2017-2018. Russia
committed to make “major upgrades and capacity increases” at
most airports serving the 13 proposed host cities.  FIFA assessed Russia’s ability to provide requisite
airports and international connections as a “high risk” in its
bid evaluation report. All aspects of England’s bid were rated
as “low” or “medium” risks.  Russia’s victory will have “an immediate positive reaction
in stocks such as steel and others that would benefit from an
expected rise in infrastructure spending,”  Chris Weafer , chief
strategist at Moscow-based UralSib Financial Corp., wrote in a
note to investors before today’s announcement.  Weafer said earlier this week that OAO Aeroflot, Russia’s
largest airline, media companies and banks “as a Russia proxy”
may also benefit.  Qatari Success  Qatar, projected by the International Monetary Fund to have
the world’s fastest-growing economy this year, plans to more
than double the number of hotel rooms, build nine stadiums and
refurbish three others and construct a rail and metro network
for the tournament.  “It will probably be the fastest-growing economy in the
world for a sustained period,” said  Akber Khan , a director at
Al Rayan Investment in Doha. The World Cup “will significantly
accelerate massive infrastructure building in Qatar.”  Last month the gas-rich Persian Gulf state was the only
candidate country that FIFA inspectors ranked “high” in
overall operational risk, since it still needs to build most of
its accommodation and facilities. The inspectors also noted that
Qatar’s summer temperatures could pose a health risk to players,
officials and spectators.  Holder of the world’s third-largest gas reserves, Qatar is
using petroleum wealth to transform itself into a sports and
cultural capital with plans to invest $100 billion on
infrastructure projects in the next four years, Finance Minister
 Yousef Hussain Kamal  said in June.  Building, High Temperatures  The country plans to spend $4 billion on the stadium
construction and refurbishment program. Each facility will be
designed with a solar-powered air-conditioning system.  The country plans to build a rail and metro network,
costing more than $25 billion, in Doha and extending to cities
outside the capital. It’s also planning the longest bridge in
the world to connect to the nearby island kingdom of Bahrain,
and aims to open a new airport next year.  A new 200,000-population city called Lusail, north of the
capital, is scheduled to be built over the next decade and will
feature the stadium that hosts the World Cup final.  The vote for the two events was marred by FIFA’s suspension
of two executive committee members last month following a
corruption probe into bids to host the World Cup. Its decision-
making body was reduced to 22 members as Nigeria’s  Amos Adamu 
was suspended for three years and fined 10,000 Swiss francs
($10,120) and Tahiti’s Reynald Temarii was banned for a year and
fined 5,000 francs after the reporters from the Sunday Times of
London reported that the pair were willing to trade votes for
cash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  