-- World Cups Go to Risky Options as Russia, Qatar Are Picked for 2018, 2022
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-12-03T05:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/russia-wins-right-to-host-soccer-s-2018-world-cup-tournament-in-fifa-vote.html
Soccer’s governing body chose the
risky options to host the World Cup in 2018 and 2022, picking
Russia and Qatar as it tries to expand the sport in emerging
markets.  FIFA selected the pair during a secret vote yesterday in
Zurich. They were the only nations out of nine candidates that
didn’t get an overall “low risk” rating from FIFA’s technical
assessment team. The Gulf state was the sole “high risk” bid,
with Russia the lone “medium risk” candidate.  The decision means that the world’s most-watched sporting
event will be in developing nations four times in a row. South
Africa held the World Cup this year, and Brazil is preparing for
the 2014 tournament. Russia, which will be the first Eastern
European host, beat England and joint bids from Portugal-Spain
and the Netherlands-Belgium for 2018. Qatar’s victory over the
U.S., Japan, South Korea and Australia moves the event to the
Middle East for the first time four years later.  “I can say FIFA opens to new worlds, I cannot be unhappy
with that,” said  Michel D’Hooghe , a Belgian member of the
executive committee who didn’t reveal who he voted for. “That’s
the decision of a democratic majority and everybody has to
respect that.”  Hosting the tournament is worth about $5 billion, according
to U.S. estimates.  Russia had to overcome operational concerns over its
airports and international connections, which are rated as high-
risk. The country still has to build 13 of the 16 proposed
stadiums. Qatar will build nine of its 12 stadiums, and air-
condition them all to deal with temperatures of 46 degrees
centigrade (115 degrees Fahrenheit).  ‘Balance of Power’  “The balance of power is shifting, and FIFA wants to be on
the right side of history,” said  Stefan Szymanski , a professor
at Cass Business School in London. “When FIFA gives the World
Cup to young, emerging markets, much of the world thinks that
sounds like a good idea.”  It was the second time in a year that the U.S. failed to
land one of the world’s biggest sports events. The American bid
for the 2016 Olympics was eliminated in the first round of
voting by the International Olympic Committee, which picked Rio
de Janiero.  The Russian victory gives Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  his
third success in attracting global sports events to boost the
economy and rebuild the country’s image as an athletic
superpower. He’s already delivered the 2014 Winter Olympics and
a Formula 1 Grand Prix car race starting in 2014.  Putin didn’t attend yesterday’s ceremony, and flew to
Zurich to meet with FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  after the vote.  “A lot of stereotypes are rooted from the Cold War era and
fly all over Europe and they frighten Europe,” Putin told
reporters. “The reality is different: you will come to Russia,
you will see how we prepare for the World Cup, you will visit
cities, go to matches, communicate with people, you will have a
better perception of the country.”  As with South Africa, the award will probably improve
sentiment about the winning nations and boost the construction,
steel, cement and tourism industries, Troika Dialog Chief
Strategist  Kingsmill Bond  said in a e-mailed note.  ‘In From the Cold’  “The Russian market is coming in from the cold,” Bond
said. “This victory both symbolizes and is likely to reinforce
this trend.”  Russia’s bid includes construction of 13 stadiums and
renovation of three more at a projected cost of $3.8 billion.
Russia committed to make “major upgrades and capacity
increases” at most airports serving the proposed host cities.  Qatar, projected by the International Monetary Fund to have
the world’s fastest-growing economy this year, plans to build
nine stadiums and refurbish three others and construct a rail
and metro network for the tournament.  “I think FIFA took that bold step forward to say we need
to expand the game we need to include people that have not been
included in the global football family before,” Qatar bid
chairman  Sheikh Mohammed bin Hamad  Al-Thani said.  Gas Reserves  Holder of the world’s third-largest gas reserves, Qatar is
using petroleum wealth to transform itself into a sports and
cultural capital with plans to invest $100 billion on
infrastructure projects in the next four years, Finance Minister
 Yousef Hussain Kamal  said in June.  “It should give the economy not less than $150 billion”
in revenue over the next 12 years,  Raghavan Seetharaman , CEO of
Doha Bank, said. “This will change the dynamics of the business
model here.”  Qatar, which has never played in a World Cup, plans to
spend $4 billion on the stadium construction and refurbishment
program. Each facility will be designed with a solar-powered
air-conditioning system.  The country also plans to build a rail and metro network,
costing more than $25 billion, in Doha and extending to cities
outside the capital.  “It’s hard to imagine that 30 years ago, this country was
nothing but a big patch of sand,” said  Ahmed Al Hammadi , who
works as a financial professional in Qatar. “It’s a final pat
on the back from the world community that we have accomplished a
lot. This is not just for Qatar but for the Middle East as a
whole.”  The vote for the two events was marred by FIFA’s suspension
of two executive committee members last month following a
corruption probe into bids to host the World Cup. Its decision-
making body was reduced to 22 members.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;  Tariq Panja  in Zurich at   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  