-- Russia, Called `Mafia State,' Condemns `Gutter Press' Level of U.S. Leaks
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-12-03T14:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/russia-is-a-mafia-state-spanish-prosecutor-says-in-leaked-u-s-document.html
Russia denounced the “cynicism” of
leaked U.S. diplomatic cables published by the Guardian
newspaper in which a Spanish prosecutor described the country as
a “virtual mafia state” and oil experts suggested Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  had amassed illegal wealth.  The memos show the “degree of cynicism of those
evaluations and often those judgments that prevail in the
foreign policy of various states,” President  Dmitry Medvedev 
said today. “In this case I am talking about the United
States.”  A document dated Feb. 8 cites Spanish prosecutor Jose
Gonzalez as telling U.S. officials that he “cannot
differentiate between the activities of the government and
organized crime groups.” The cable, released by WikiLeaks.org,
was published yesterday by the London-based Guardian.  The leaks come as Republican opposition to rapid
ratification of a nuclear arms treaty threatens to set back
President  Barack Obama ’s initiative to “reset” relations
between Russia and the U.S. Russian leaders have also warned of
a new arms race if the U.S. and its allies fail to cooperate
with their country on missile defense.  The content of the documents is “at the gutter press level
and verges on madness,” Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said
late yesterday in Moscow. “If we assume that these telegrams
were written by real diplomats of some country, then we wish
this country had more professional and thoughtful diplomats.”  ‘Balanced’ Reaction  The U.S. ambassador in Moscow,  John Beyrle , said today that
publishing of the confidential correspondence “has caused more
harm than good.”  “But I see that our partners around the world are reacting
in a very balanced way,” he said  on his blog.    Medvedev, speaking at a news conference with Italian Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  in Sochi, Russia, said he saw nothing
in the documents that was “critical” for Russia’s relationship
with the Obama administration.  Gonzalez, who has investigated the Russian mafia in Spain,
briefed officials at the U.S. embassy in Madrid on Jan. 14,
according to the February document published by the Guardian.  The prosecutor considers Russia a “virtual mafia state,”
according to the cable. There are “unanswered questions
regarding the extent to which Russian PM Putin is implicated in
the Russian mafia and whether he controls the mafia’s actions,”
the cable cited Gonzalez as saying.  ‘Illicit Wealth’  Putin has accumulated “illicit wealth” through ties to
secretive energy traders, including Gunvor International BV,
according to oil industry experts cited in a Nov. 24, 2008,
cable from the U.S. embassy in Moscow and published by the
Guardian.  Gunvor, whose main trading office is in Geneva, dismissed
the memo as based on “old, completely unsubstantiated rumors.”  “Mr. Putin has not, nor has ever, owned any of Gunvor,
beneficially or in any other way,”  Stuart Leasor , a London-
based spokesman for Gunvor, said today in an e-mailed response
to questions.  The company has two founders,  Gennady Timchenko  and
Torbjorn Tornqvist, who are joint majority owners, Leasor said.
An employee benefit trust for senior Gunvor managers owns a
minority stake, he said. Timchenko was a founding member of a
St. Petersburg judo club where Putin was once honorary head,
 Kommersant  reported April 28.  Putin’s Successor  The latest leaked documents also cite former U.S. Secretary
of State  Condoleezza Rice  as saying she heard from Russian
opposition contacts that Putin didn’t install a strong successor
because he feared “law enforcement investigations.” Putin’s
aim was to protect “alleged illicit proceeds,” according to
the cables published by the Guardian.  Putin, a former KGB spy, served as president for eight
years before becoming prime minister in 2008, when legal limits
prevented him from running for a third consecutive term. His
successor, Medvedev, worked for Putin in the St. Petersburg
mayor’s office before joining his presidential administration.  Putin, 58, and Medvedev, 45, haven’t said which man will
run for the presidency in 2012.  The prime minister, in an interview with CNN’s  Larry King 
broadcast Dec. 1, criticized attempts to “slander” and divide
the two men.  “We didn’t suspect that this would be done with such
arrogance, with such a push and, you know, being so unethically
done,” Putin said.  Litvinenko Murder  Gonzalez said he agreed with a thesis put forward by ex-KGB
agent  Alexander Litvinenko  that intelligence and security
services “control organized crime in Russia,” according to the
February cable.  Litvinenko, a Putin critic who received political asylum in
the U.K., died from radiation poisoning in November 2006. U.K.
investigators say former KGB bodyguard  Andrei Lugovoi  poisoned
Litvinenko during a meeting in London. Lugovoi denies any
involvement in Litvinenko’s death.  Then-Assistant Secretary of State  Daniel Fried  suggested
Putin may have known about the murder, according to a cable
dated Dec. 12, 2006, and published by the Guardian.  Litvinenko blamed Putin for his own murder in a deathbed
statement, an accusation the Kremlin called “absurd.” While
the U.K. demanded Lugovoi be handed over for prosecution, the
Russian government refused, citing a constitutional ban on
extraditing its citizens.  WikiLeaks, a nonprofit group that releases information the
government wants to keep confidential, has been posting on its
website what it says are more than 250,000 U.S. State Department
documents. Department spokeswoman  Nicole Thompson  this week
declined to confirm information in the documents, saying it is
the agency’s policy not to comment on specific leaked materials.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net 
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  