-- Samsung, LG Display Get Chinese Government Approval to Build LCD Plants
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-12-02T06:38:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/samsung-lg-display-win-chinese-approval-for-lcd-plants-to-meet-tv-demand.html
Samsung Electronics Co.  and  LG
Display Co. , the world’s two biggest makers of liquid-crystal
displays, said they received the Chinese government’s approval
to build LCD factories in the country and meet surging demand.  Samsung spokesman  James Chung  and Son Young Jun at LG said
today the companies received notices from China about the
decision last week. Japan’s Sharp Corp., which had also sought
permission to build a display factory in the country, hasn’t
received any such notification from the Chinese government,
spokeswoman  Miyuki Nakayama  said.  The approval paves the way for the two South Korean
companies to build multi-billion-dollar factories in Suzhou and
Guangzhou to meet Chinese demand for flat panel displays used in
televisions and computers. Setting up the plants will enable the
companies to be closer to the assemblers and reduce costs,
Seoul-based analyst  Choi Do Yeon  said.  “China is a market where a very large number of households
haven’t switched to LCD televisions yet,” said Choi, an analyst
at LIG Investment & Securities Co. “Even though it’s the
fastest growing market in the world, it still has a lot of
growth potential. The new factories can be beneficial in terms
of securing distribution channels.”  China Japan Tensions  Samsung, the world’s largest LCD maker, expects to start
operating the factory in about a year and a half, Chung said.  The company’s shares  rose  4.8 percent, the biggest gain in
a year, to close at 859,000 won and LG Display gained 1.3
percent to 40,500 won in Seoul, outperforming the 1.1 percent
gain by Korea’s benchmark Kospi stock index.  China became the largest LCD-TV market in the third
quarter, surpassing the U.S., according to Soh Hyun Cheol, an
analyst at Shinhan Investment Corp. in Seoul. About 39 million
units will probably be sold in the country this year, and sales
are estimated to increase to 46 million next year, he said.  Sharp is lagging behind the Korean companies in receiving
approval amid heightened tensions between China and Japan.  A Chinese fishing boat collided with two Japanese Coast
Guard vessels on Sept. 7 near islands claimed by both sides.
China cut off ministerial talks after Japan detained the captain
of the trawler for 17 days. The clash also reportedly prompted
Beijing to cut off exports of rare earth minerals used in the
manufacture of hybrid car batteries and wind turbines.  Sharp Approval  “There is no reason for China to only deny Sharp an
approval,” said Mitsushige Akino, who oversees about $450
million in assets in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co. “The political situation between China and Japan will make
things a little late, but in the end it won’t be just Samsung
and LG there because from China’s point of view, there’s no
merit in only doing that.”  Sharp,  Japan’s largest LCD maker, said in August last year
it reached a preliminary agreement with China Electronics Corp.
to form a venture to make LCDs based on 8G technology. The
company also said it will sell LCD manufacturing equipment to
China.  Samsung’s proposed 2.6 trillion won ($2.3 billion) plant in
Suzhou will be based on the so-called 7.5-generation LCD
technology, while LG Display’s $4 billion factory will use
eighth-generation technology. 8G plants are designed to make
displays measuring more than 40 inches diagonally.  AU Optronics  The South Korean government approved the companies to go
ahead with the projects last December, while asking them to find
ways to prevent technology leaks. According to Korean law, the
government has the option of blocking the transfer of
technologies deemed strategic.  China’s government accepted the applications of LG and
Samsung in February, according to Chung and Son.  AU Optronics Corp.  in March became the first Taiwan maker
of liquid-crystal displays to apply to the Taiwan government for
approval to set up a panel factory in China after the government
relaxed restrictions. That application has not yet been approved
by the Taiwan government, AUO spokeswoman Yawen Hsiao said by
phone today.  “We have to get Taiwan government approval before we can
take the next step” of applying to China, Hsiao said. Emile
Chang, spokesman for Taiwan’s Investment Commission wasn’t
available at his office today when contacted by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jun Yang  in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 