-- Sands China Says Last Macau Development Bids Rejected
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2010-12-02T21:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/sands-china-says-macau-rejected-application-to-last-two-land-concessions.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. ’s Hong
Kong-listed  Sands China Ltd.  said the Macau government rejected
the casino company’s application to develop the final two
parcels of land in its China expansion plan.  Sands China has 15 days to apply for a government review,
and 30 days to appeal to the courts in Macau to secure sites 7
and 8 on Macau’s Cotai Strip, according to a U.S. regulatory
filing today. Shares of Las Vegas Sands slumped.  Billionaire founder and Chief Executive Officer  Sheldon Adelson  has restarted Sands’ mothballed expansion in Macau, the
only part of China where casinos are legal. Construction has
resumed on Cotai sites 5 and 6, and Sands also has rights over
site 3, the next area it plans to develop with hotels and
casinos. The rejected bid covers the last two parcels the
company planned to develop in the world’s biggest casino center.  “With the Macau government getting more vocal/concerned
about additional supply, we wouldn’t be surprised if the
government sits on the land for the time being,”  Steven Wieczynski , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said today in a
client note.  Las Vegas Sands fell $2.17, or 4.2 percent, to $49.17 at
4:02 p.m. in  New York Stock Exchange  composite trading. Sands
China was suspended at HK$17.40 in Asia trading.  “The company has received a letter and is considering its
options as presented by the government,”  Ron Reese , a Las Vegas
Sands spokesman, said today in a phone interview.  Macau’s casino gambling revenue jumped 57 percent to 169.5
billion patacas ($21.2 billion) this year through November,
boosted by visitors from China’s mainland.  Preliminary Work  Las Vegas Sands has done preliminary groundwork at sites 7
and 8, pending approval of the land concession. No development
time line had been announced.  Sands operates the Sands Macao, Venetian Macao and Four
Seasons casino resorts in Macau.  It is also building St. Regis, Shangri-La, Sheraton and
Traders projects on sites 5 and 6, neighboring Venetian. Work on
those had stopped in late 2008 during the financial crisis, when
Adelson invested more than $1 billion of his family money into
the company to eliminate bankruptcy concerns.  Adelson, 77, envisions Cotai developing as China’s Las
Vegas Strip, and has said he wants thousands of hotel rooms and
new developments to create a convention hub and attract more
mass-market vacationers. Las Vegas-based  MGM  Resorts
International and  Wynn Resorts Ltd. , and Asia’s  Galaxy
Entertainment Group Ltd . plan to develop casinos on Cotai.  Cotai Competition  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd . opened its second Macau
casino, City of Dreams, on Cotai in June 2009. Melco is a joint
venture between Lawrence Ho, son of Macau’s original casino
monopoly holder,  Stanley Ho , and  James Packer ’s Crown Ltd.,
Australia’s biggest casino owner.  Wynn Resorts, owner of the Wynn and Encore casinos in Las
Vegas and Macau, is “ready to begin” site work on a third
Macau resort in the Cotai area, CEO  Steve Wynn  said on a Nov. 2
earnings call. The project will cost $2 billion to $3 billion
and open in 2015, employing as many as 15,000 staff, he said.  Sands’ Las Vegas-based parent company operates the Venetian
and Palazzo casino resorts and convention center on the Las
Vegas Strip, a casino in Pennsylvania, and this year opened the
Marina Bay Sands in Singapore, one of two casino resorts in the
island nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  