-- Seagate Said to Have Rejected Western Digital Takeover Proposal
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2010-12-02T22:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/seagate-is-said-to-have-turned-down-takeover-proposal-from-western-digital.html
Seagate Technology Plc , the disk-
drive maker that ended takeover talks with TPG Capital, also
turned down a proposal from competitor Western Digital Corp.,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  A combination with Western Digital would have faced
antitrust obstacles and may have resulted in  management 
departures, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks were private. Western Digital indicated to
Seagate it was willing to pay 10 percent to 50 percent more than
TPG, one person said. TPG had considered offering more than $7.5
billion, people familiar with the discussions said in October.  The proposal was a bad idea, said  Ashok Kumar , an analyst
at Rodman & Renshaw LLC in New York. “I’m not sure how that
would serve Seagate’s shareholders,” he said. “There’s way too
much product overlap, and I’m not sure the premium would be
meaningful enough to make it worth it. I think they have to make
a go of it on their own.”  Seagate, which has a  market value  of about $6.9 billion,
said Nov. 29 it ended discussions with private-equity firms
because the indicated deal value wasn’t in the best interest of
the company or its shareholders. TPG couldn’t find enough equity
partners to finance a takeover after KKR & Co. and Bain Capital
LLC lost interest in a transaction, one person familiar with the
situation said at the time.  Made Its Move  Western Digital made its approach after Seagate said Oct.
14 that it received interest about a going-private transaction,
one person said.  While Western Digital has smaller sales than Seagate, its
market value is larger, at about $8 billion. The Lake Forest,
California-based company had cash and equivalents of about $2.9
billion and $375 million in debt as of Oct. 1.  Brian Ziel , a spokesman for Seagate, and  Steve Shattuck , a
Western Digital spokesman, declined to comment. Seagate has
offices in Scotts Valley, California, and Dublin.  Seagate rose as much as $1, or 7.2 percent, to $14.92 in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading  after the Western Digital approach
was reported. The shares closed at $14.53, up 4.4 percent for
the day.  Competition with  Western Digital  has made it harder for
Seagate to meet analysts’ profit projections. Excluding some
costs, earnings were 37 cents last quarter, compared with the
46-cent average of estimates compiled by  Bloomberg . Sales rose
1.3 percent to $2.7 billion.  The industry may focus more on avoiding supply gluts than
acquisitions to improve results, Kumar said.  “The consolidation wave has run its course,” he said.
“The only thing that will keep pricing stable and profits
moving in the right direction is more rational production
levels.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cristina Alesci  in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  