-- Senate Accused of Secret Plan to Legalize U.S. Online Gambling
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2010-12-02T21:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/senate-accused-of-secret-plan-to-legalize-u-s-online-gambling.html
Three U.S. House Republicans are
objecting to what they call a “secretive, closed-door,
undemocratic” effort in the Senate to pass legislation that
would legalize and tax some Internet gambling before Congress
adjourns this year.  Representatives  Spencer Bachus ,  Dave Camp  and  Lamar Smith ,
all in line to be committee chairmen with oversight of online
gambling when Republicans take control of the House in January,
said they have learned that the Senate may attach a measure to
“must-pass” legislation during the current lame-duck session.  “Creating a federal right to gamble that has never existed
in our country’s history and imposing an unprecedented new tax
regime on such activity require careful deliberation, not back-
room deals,” the lawmakers said in a Dec. 1 letter to Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and his Republican counterpart,  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky.  Internet gambling has provoked heated debate in Congress
over the past few years. Proponents say regulating online poker
and other games would bring billions into federal coffers, while
opponents contend that it would encourage Americans to make poor
financial choices and could open the market to children.  A House committee in July approved legislation that would
legalize some Internet gambling, allowing U.S. residents to
place online wagers with companies the Treasury Department has
licensed. It has not been taken up by the full House or in the
Senate.  Processing Payments  The House measure, sponsored by Massachusetts Democrat
 Barney Frank , chairman of the  House Financial Services
Committee , would override a law designed to block such betting.
That law, which was enacted in 2006 and took effect in June,
bars banks from processing payments to offshore gambling
websites.  The Senate legislation is similar to Frank’s bill. The
House proposal requires licensed gambling companies to have
safeguards to protect against underage and compulsive gambling
and to prevent people from placing bets online in states that
prohibit it.  Reid, of Nevada, has large gambling interests in his state.
A spokesman for Reid,  Jim Manley , said in an e-mail that he had
no comment.  The three House opponents -- Bachus of Alabama, Camp of
Michigan and Smith of Texas -- are in line to be chairmen of the
Financial Services Committee, the Ways and Means Committee and
the Judiciary Committee, respectively. Each panel would have
some jurisdiction over the measure.  “We also are concerned that this new rush to embrace
Internet casino gambling might be partially motivated by one of
the gravest sins that afflicts this Congress: desperation for
more tax dollars to pay for ever-increasing federal spending,”
the lawmakers said in the letter. “Congress should not take
advantage of the young, the weak and the vulnerable in the name
of new revenues.”  Approving such controversial legislation by attaching it to
another bill would be “a secretive, closed-door, undemocratic
process,” they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Schmidt  in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  