-- Snow Hampers Travel in Europe, Forcing Gatwick, Edinburgh Airports to Shut
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-12-02T17:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/severe-winter-weather-disrupts-air-rail-travel-in-europe-for-fourth-day.html
Snowstorms and freezing temperatures
disrupted travel across Europe as airports from London to
Amsterdam halted flights and Eurostar Group Ltd. said train
cancelations are likely to continue over the weekend.  London’s Gatwick airport, the U.K.’s second busiest, will
be closed until at least 6 a.m. local time tomorrow, according
to its  website . Dublin suspended services and  Air France-KLM
Group  called off all European flights from Amsterdam Schiphol
after runways were covered in snow. Airports in Edinburgh,
Geneva and London City resumed operations during the day.  In the U.K., the earliest widespread snowfall since 1993
has frozen over roads, disrupting traffic, with icy weather
likely to last until at least Dec. 8, according to private
forecaster British  Weather  Services. The worst-hit areas
overnight were south London, Sussex, Kent and Hampshire with as
much as 8 inches (20 centimeters) of snow, said Robin Thwaytes,
a spokesman for the state-funded Met Office.  “We’ve had unprecedented levels of snow over the last
couple of days,” Gatwick Airport Chief Executive Officer
 Stewart Wingate  said in a phone interview. “It’s only in the
past few hours that it has started to ease.” The airport will
suffer continued disruption even if it opens as planned tomorrow
morning, he said.  Eurostar Services  Eurostar canceled seven services from Paris to London and
six in the other direction, plus five each way between the U.K.
capital and Brussels, to avoid a repeat of last winter’s
breakdowns in the Channel Tunnel. Speed restrictions in both the
U.K. and northern France will create delays of as much as 90
minutes for other services, Eurostar said on its  website , adding
that further disruptions are likely tomorrow and at the weekend.  Go-Ahead Group Plc ’s Southern Railway Ltd. has suspended
its operations except for limited service between London Bridge
and East Croydon and London Victoria and East Croydon, and
Brighton and Eastbourne and Littlehampton and Chichester, the
company said on its website. Trains are set to resume running on
the Brighton mainline later today.  Dublin airport aims to resume operations at about 6:30 p.m.
local time after clearing snow and ice from the runway, taxiways
and apron areas, according to its  website .  BAA Ltd.  said
London’s Heathrow airport was operating normally, but faced
delays and cancellations because of disruptions elsewhere.  Snowfall  Further snow showers added 5 to 10 centimeters across much
of eastern Britain today, with depths of as much as 70
centimeters in some places, the  Met Office  said on its website.
Weather warnings have been issued for the southwest, with as
much as 15 centimeters in some parts of Cornwall.  The area affected most in the U.K. today was the south,
from Kent through Dorset, said Paul Watters, a spokesman for the
 Automobile Association . The rescue service responded to 18,000
calls yesterday, and had 100,000 in the past six days, he said.
the second-largest Czech city, and Pilsen.  At least one person was found dead last night because of
the freezing weather in the Czech Republic and eight people in
Poland, newswire CTK reported.  Fresh snowfall also blanketed  Germany  last night, exceeding
15 centimeters in some parts of the southeast. Temperatures will
drop as low as minus-20 degrees Celsius in central Germany and
very cold weather will persist until at least Dec. 4, according
to the German Weather Service.  “We’re selling masses of scarves, woolly hats and gloves
at the moment,” said Hartmut Scheller, a store owner in
Berlin’s southwestern suburb of Steglitz. “If temperatures
persist at these lows, we’ll soon be out of stock.”  Trains  Eighteen long-distance trains operated by Deutsche Bahn AG
were stalled overnight after snow blocked railways across the
country and passengers were either driven to hotels or supplied
with food and drinks in their railcars, spokeswoman Kathrin
Fellenberg said. Regional and high-speed traffic experienced
further delays throughout the day, she said.  Frankfurt airport , Germany’s busiest, canceled 57 flights
today, largely because of closures at other airports, Fraport AG
spokeswoman Stefanie Wagener said by telephone, adding that the
main runway opened again after the wind died down overnight.
About 100 flights were called off in Munich, said Florian
Steuer, an airport spokesman, adding that the airport expected
no further cancellations.  About 100 of a scheduled 600 to 650 flights were canceled at
Berlin’s Schoenefeld and Tegel airports, spokesman Leif Erichsen
said. A Deutsche Lufthansa AG spokesman,  Thomas Jachnow , said
the airline had been forced to cancel a number of Berlin
flights, adding that conditions in the German capital were
similar to those at other airports in Europe.  France  France’s DGAC civil aviation authority ordered the
cancellation of one in four flights from Paris Charles de Gaulle
today and one in ten from Orly, the city’s other major airport,
according to an e-mailed statement.  Hundreds of vehicles were stranded early this morning in
northern and western France after renewed snowfalls. The main
RN12 highway along the northern coast of Brittany was closed and
hundreds of heavy trucks taken off the roads in Normandy, AFP
reported, citing the French meteorological agency.  U.K. same-day gas rose for a fifth day, the longest upward
trend since October last year, with gas for today advancing 4
percent to 64.25 pence a therm as of 4:46 p.m. in London,
according to broker data on Bloomberg. About 80 percent of the
country’s homes and businesses use natural gas for heating. It’s
also used to generate about half of Britain’s electricity
supply.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jack Jordan  in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net ;
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 Sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 