-- Shanghai's Housing Rents, Hotel Rates Fall Up to 50% After Expo
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-02T01:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/shanghai-s-housing-rents-hotel-rates-fall-up-to-50-after-world-expo-ends.html
Shanghai’s apartment rents and hotel
room rates near the  World Expo  site fell as much as half as
China’s biggest international event this year ended.  Rents on a two-bedroom apartment in the neighborhood, which
fetched from 6,000 yuan ($900) to 10,000 yuan a month during the
showcase that ended Oct. 31, have fallen 50 percent, said Chen
Yi, manager of the Expo branch of  Centaline Property Agency Ltd. 
Hotel rates declined as much as 47 percent last month from
October, according to Qunar, China’s largest travel  website 
tracking the city’s 2,000 hotels.  The six-month event attracted a record 73.1 million
 visitors , driving up rents and hotel rates especially within 3
square kilometers (1.2 square miles) of the site on the banks of
the Huangpu river, Centaline said. With rents falling, property
owners are now turning to the improvements made to the area as a
selling point after more than 270 billion yuan of spending on
infrastructure.  “Rents for homes near the Expo park were largely affected
by the influx of short-term visitors and workers this year,”
said Qu Anxin, a Shanghai-based researcher at Centaline, the
city’s biggest brokerage for mid- to high-end homes. “It’s a
nice and convenient area to live, especially after the
government built up the subway lines and shopping malls.”  Authorities in Shanghai built two airport terminals and
undertook a three-year renovation of The Bund, the city’s
colonial-era waterfront boulevard, lined with historic
buildings, across the river from the Expo park. China’s richest
city also accelerated its expansion of the  subway system  to more
than 400 kilometers to cater to the influx of visitors, making
it the biggest city transport underground network in China.  Expo Park  The Expo park is spread across 5.3 square kilometers, with
part of the site lining the eastern side of the Huangpu river,
based on data from World Expo’s official website. The
exhibition, with pavilions from about 190 nations from the U.S.
to North Korea, may lift Shanghai’s economic growth to more than
8.5 percent this year from 8.2 percent in 2009, the  Shanghai
Academy of Social Sciences  estimates.  Revenue from home rental transactions at Centaline’s Expo
location fell 80 percent after the event ended from the peak in
April, said Chen. Apartment leases are now signed for at least a
year rather than three to six months previously, he said.  Some rental rates that tripled during the Expo have fallen
back to the level at the start of the year, said Huang Hetao, a
researcher at  Century 21 China Real Estate , which has 280
branches in Shanghai, the most in the city. Rents have dropped
by an average of 20 percent since the end of the event, he said.  “Landlords would rather cut rents than leave the
apartments empty,” he said.  Room Rates  Five-star  hotels reduced room rates to an average 1,300
yuan a night in November from 2,200 yuan in October, Qunar said
in an e-mailed statement.  “Hotel rates fell back quickly to the level of last year,
which was the worst time when the financial crisis hit the
industry,” said Joseph Wang, senior director of the company’s
hotel product department. Room rates in May, July, August and
October set new highs for the Shanghai hotel industry, Qunar
said in the statement.  -- Bonnie Cao . Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Andreea Papuc   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  