-- Smallest Peso Decline in Three Years Drive Bond Returns: Argentina Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2010-12-02T21:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/smallest-peso-decline-in-three-years-drive-bond-returns-argentina-credit.html
Argentina’s record soybean harvest is
helping the peso post its smallest decline in three years.  The peso’s 4.6 percent drop against the U.S. dollar this
year is almost half its decline in 2009 and compares with an 8.8
percent tumble in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The smaller drop is helping President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  prevent inflation that’s running at about 25 percent
from accelerating further and is preserving dollar-based returns
on peso debt. The 15 percent advance in local bonds compares
with a 14 percent return for Brazilian debt and a 6 percent gain
for Russian notes, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. A 55-
million metric ton soybean harvest prompted analysts to pare
their peso forecasts to the most bullish in almost two years.  The peso “anchors inflation expectations,”  Boris Segura ,
a Latin America economist at Nomura Securities International
Inc., said in a telephone interview from New York. “The only
way they can signal some sort of control over inflation is to
keep the exchange rate relatively flat.”  The central bank buys dollars in the foreign-exchange
market to weaken the peso in an effort to bolster exports, a
policy that helped push foreign reserves to a record $52.3
billion on Nov. 19. It bought $9.6 billion this year through
October, up from $3.3 billion in all of 2009.  Press officials at the central bank didn’t respond to
messages left by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates inflation is about 25
percent, more than the  government’s  11.1 percent rate. Private
economists and politicians say the government has underreported
inflation since early 2007, when then-President  Nestor Kirchner ,
Fernandez’s late husband and predecessor, named a political
appointee to head the agency that measures consumer prices.
Fernandez says the data is accurate.  Reelection  Fernandez will limit peso losses next year to stop
inflation from quickening as she seeks reelection, according to
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Kirchner, who died in October, said in July that either he
or Fernandez would run for president in next year’s election.  “It’s a matter of wanting to get reelected, and inflation
is really a shot in the foot,”  Flavia Cattan-Naslausky , a
currency strategist at RBS in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a
telephone interview. “Anything outside of gradual, engineered
depreciation is too risky for the authorities.”  The currency will slide to 4.02 per dollar by yearend, from
3.9866 yesterday, and drop to 4.3 by December 2011, according to
the median forecast of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. In
August, the analysts predicted a decline to 4.2 per dollar by
yearend and 4.65 by the end of 2011.  ‘Still Negative’  The peso’s decline this year is the biggest among the six
most-traded Latin American currencies, according to Bloomberg.
It has weakened 29 percent since Kirchner began his four-year
term in May 2003. In addition to requiring investors to deposit
cash at the central bank, the government has also limited gains
by maintaining caps on utility prices and taking over companies
and private pension funds.  “The fact that it’s underperforming tells me that people
are still negative on the peso,”  Win Thin , global head of
emerging-markets strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “I could see that
continuing next year. Most investors are not happy with economic
policies under this president and the previous president.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 18 basis points, or
0.18 percentage point, to 529 at 3:27 p.m. New York time,
according to JPMorgan.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 38 basis points to
701, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  Warrants linked to economic growth climbed 0.08 cent to
13.24 cents today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The peso was little changed today at 3.9855.  Eduardo Suarez , an emerging-markets strategist at RBC
Capital Markets in Toronto, predicts the peso will end the year
at 3.95 per dollar and weaken to 4.1 by the end of 2011.  “We see the Argentine peso as one of the more stable
currencies,” Suarez said in a telephone interview. “Argentines
are quite sensitive to big moves in the peso and they take those
negatively, so the government, especially now that there are
elections next year, would, in our view, be quite averse to
allowing large depreciations in the Argentine peso.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  