-- South Korea Readies for Live-Fire Artillery Drills on Disputed Sea Border
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 2010-12-03T03:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/south-korea-readies-for-artillery-drills-on-disputed-sea-border.html
South Korea’s military said it is
preparing to carry out the first live-fire artillery drills
along its disputed western sea border since the deadly shelling
of Yeonpyeong island by its communist neighbor.  As more than 40,000 Japanese and U.S. troops begin joint
exercises today, South Korea warned shipping to avoid 29 areas
around its coast starting Dec. 6. One zone lies about 7 miles
(11 kilometers) off Daechong island, in waters claimed by the
North that are about 100 miles (160 kilometers) from the South
Korean mainland.  North Korea attacked the fishing community and military
outpost of Yeonpyeong on Nov. 23, killing four people and
destroying houses in the first shelling of South Korea soil
since the 1950-1953 civil war between the two sides. North Korea
said it was responding to a military provocation after the South
fired into waters it claims as its own.  South Korea hasn’t decided when it will next hold artillery
exercises on Yeonpyeong, said a spokesman for the Joint Chiefs
of Staff who declined to be identified, citing military policy.
The National Intelligence Service believes North Korea may
launch another attack on the South, Grand National Party
lawmaker Rhee Beum Kwan said, citing testimony to parliament
this week by the spy-agency’s director,  Won Sei-Hoon .  ‘Main Enemy’  South Korea’s defense minister-nominee  Kim Kwan Jin  said
today he will consider whether to reinstate North Korea as the
country’s “main enemy” in the military guidelines. The term
was dropped in 2004 under the so-called “Sunshine Policy” of
engagement with North Korea.  “There is no doubt North Korea’s leadership and military
are our main enemy,” Kim, the former chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, said during a confirmation hearing. “The enemy
will attempt more provocations. I will make sure the enemy
doesn’t even dare to think about it.”  North Korea has more than 5,200 multiple rocket launchers,
100 more than previously estimated, bolstering its capability to
attack South Korea’s capital, Yonhap News reported today, citing
a South Korean government official it didn’t identify. North
Korea has also increased the number of tanks and boosted its
capability to intercept planes, Yonhap said.  Fresh from maneuvers in the Yellow Sea with South Korea’s
navy, the aircraft carrier USS George Washington will join a
force of about 400 aircraft and 60 warships in the Japanese-U.S.
exercises today. Drills will include responding to ballistic
missile attacks on unspecified Pacific islands, the  Joint Staff 
of the Japan Self-Defense Forces said in a statement.  China Critical  While the exercises were planned more than a year ago, they
are the latest show of deterrence following North Korea’s
shelling of Yeonpyeong. China criticized the drills as an
obstacle to easing tensions on the peninsula that have been
ratcheting higher since the March sinking of the South Korean
warship Cheonan. An international panel blamed the incident on a
North Korean torpedo, which the regime of  Kim Jong Il  has denied.  South Korea’s drills starting Dec. 6 will include live
firing from navy ships into the sea near Daecheong island, said
the spokesman for the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The area lies to
the southwest of the island, in the opposite direction to the
North Korean coastline, he said.  The army and air force will be involved in drills in some
of the areas around South Korea where regular live-fire practice
is planned, said the spokesman.  ‘Step Up’  Japan and the U.S. have joined South Korea in condemning
the North Korean attack, rejecting China’s call for talks with
the North and calling on the government in Beijing to do more to
rein in its ally.  China has “much influence and therefore much
responsibility,” Admiral  Michael Mullen , chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, said at a forum of the Center for American
Progress in Washington Dec. 1. “We need China to step up.”  Chinese opposition has stalled  United Nations  Security
Council negotiations condemning the shelling and North Korea’s
expanding nuclear program. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
will host Japan’s Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  and South
Korean Foreign Minister  Kim Sung Hwan  on Dec. 6 to discuss
regional security.  North Korea last week confirmed it has a uranium-enrichment
facility with thousands of centrifuges, which it said was
intended for civilian use. The country is under UN  sanctions 
because of previous atomic tests and concerns it is developing
nuclear weapons.  Closer Ties  China’s ties with North Korea “have witnessed significant
progress this year,”  Wu Bangguo , a member of the nine-member
standing committee of China’s Politburo, said in Beijing,
according to a  statement  posted on the website of the Communist
Party yesterday. Wu pledged to strengthen those links in his
third meeting this year with  Choe Tae Bok , a key aide to North
Korean leader  Kim Jong Il .  Choe’s talks in Beijing touched on areas of mutual concern
and took place in a friendly atmosphere, state-run Korea Central
News Agency reported yesterday, without providing details.  The week-long exercise has no link to any “existing or
perceived political or geographical situation nor is it directed
at any nation,” U.S. Lt. Colonel Kenneth Hoffman, an Air Force
spokesman, said in an e-mailed message.  China on Nov. 28 proposed “emergency consultations” with
negotiators from the two Koreas, Japan, Russia and the U.S. to
defuse tensions. Negotiations among the six countries aimed at
getting North Korea to abandon its nuclear program have been
stalled since April 2009.  “Brandishing of force cannot solve the issue,” Chinese
Foreign Ministry spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  said at a regular briefing
yesterday. “Some are playing with knives and guns while China
is criticized for calling for dialogue, is that fair?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  