-- Spain Tests Demand With First Bond Sale After Ireland Bailout: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-12-02T12:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/spain-bond-sale-to-gauge-investor-demand-after-surge-in-yield-euro-credit.html
Spain tested investor sentiment with
the first debt sale since its 10-year bond yield rose to the
highest in a decade following the bailout of Ireland.  Spain sold 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion) of three-year
debt today, pricing the securities to yield 3.72 percent, 23
basis points less than the same bonds in the market prior to the
auction. Spanish bonds extended gains after the sale, and the
yield premiums on Spanish, Italian and Portuguese debt over
German bunds all narrowed further on the result.  “The average yield at the auction is way below secondary
markets,” said  Chiara Cremonesi , a London-based analyst with
UniCredit SpA. “Taking into consideration the current
environment, the auction was decently received and sends a
reassuring message to investors, after the recent speculation on
contagion of the sovereign debt crisis to Spain.”  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-year
debt over German bunds climbed to a euro-era high on Nov. 30 as
Ireland’s bailout fueled speculation Spain or Portugal may be
next to seek aid from the European Union. The spread is driving
up costs for Spain just as its banks reduce debt purchases and
the country’s bond redemptions are set to rise next year. The
risk for Europe is that a rescue for Spain, an economy almost
twice the combined size of Greece, Portugal and Ireland, would
strain the region’s 750 billion-euro bailout facility.  Investors ordered 2.27 times the amount of the bonds
offered today, more than the 2.16 times at the previous auction
on Oct. 7. The yield on Spain’s three-year bond in the secondary
market fell 19 basis points to 3.785, the lowest since Nov. 24.  Sovereign Northern Rock  “With its refinancing requirement being acute early next
year, it’s very important that sentiment is positive enough for
Spain to access the market or the country will become a
sovereign equivalent of Northern Rock,”  John Anderson , the
London-based head of credit at Gartmore Investment Management
Ltd., said before the sale, referring to the U.K. bank that was
nationalized in 2008.  Spain has about 45 billion euros of bonds coming due next
year, up from 32 billion euros in 2010, according to the
Treasury. The first payment of 15.5 billion euros is in April.
Spanish banks have about 85 billion euros to refinance in 2011,
and about 10 percent of the lenders’ outstanding debt matures in
the first half of 2011, Bank of Spain data show.  Bank Holdings  “The pressure on Spain is likely to intensify into next
year as refinancing pressures peak in March-April,”  Nikolaos Panigirtzoglou , a London-based strategist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co., wrote in a research note to clients. “Spanish banks are
facing a heavy refinancing hurdle in 2011 themselves, so it
would be very difficult for them to fund further Spanish
government bond purchases” without financing them via the
European Central Bank, he wrote.  Spanish banks hold about 26 percent of the state’s
outstanding debt, with non-residents holding 48 percent and
Spanish pension funds, insurers and the social security surplus
fund holding most of the rest, Treasury figures show. Spanish
banks have cut their holdings from 33 percent at the end of
2009, the data show.  Barclays Capital analysts  Simon Samuels  and  Mike Harrison 
estimate that Spain’s government and banks will seek to raise 73
billion euros in the first four months of 2011. Markets treat
the two “as one” after Ireland’s bailout, the London-based
analysts said in a Nov. 26 report.  “March and April will be key months for Spain,” said
 Mohit Kumar , a fixed-income strategist at Deutsche Bank in
London. “Things will have to get sorted in the first quarter to
reduce systemic risks. If sentiment doesn’t improve and
investors stay away from the market, it would be tough even for
a country with relatively solid fundamentals.”  Yield Premium  Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond had its biggest one-day drop
since the euro’s inception in 1999 on Nov. 29 as the Irish
bailout overshadowed Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero ’s progress in cutting the region’s third-largest budget
deficit. The yield on the 10-year bond fell 9 basis points to
5.252 percent after a 23 basis-point drop yesterday.  The yield premium over Germany had risen almost 150 basis
points to a euro-area record 298 in the preceding month as
Ireland’s woes prompted investors to shun bonds of so-called
peripheral countries. That spread narrowed 14 basis points today
to 236.4.  Spain stepped up efforts to reduce the deficit and gain
investors’ confidence yesterday. The government announced the
sale of almost half of its airport operator Aena-Aeropuertos and
a 30 percent stake in the state lottery business. Zapatero also
told lawmakers a one-time 420 euro-per-month subsidy for
 unemployed workers  will expire in February.  French Auction  Spain was competing for funds with France, which auctioned
5.4 billion euros of seven-, eight- and 15-year bonds today.
Portugal’s borrowing costs jumped at an auction yesterday. The
country paid an average yield of 5.281 percent on 12-month
bills, up from 4.813 percent at a sale on Nov. 17.  Investors have been punishing Europe’s markets since
Ireland became the second euro nation after Greece to get a
rescue package. Selling extended outside the peripheral markets
to Belgium, while the euro fell to a 10-week low versus the
dollar on Nov. 30. The euro strengthened for a second day today,
to $1.3158, and so-called peripheral bonds gained on speculation
the ECB may act to stem the crisis at a meeting today in
Frankfurt.  Everything “depends on the ECB,” said  Ioannis Sokos , a
interest rate strategist at BNP Paribas in London. “If the ECB
disappoints, there’s no question of good auction or bad auction,
it’s going to collapse afterwards.”  Robust Demand  Carlos Ocana , deputy finance minister with responsibility
for the budget, said he was “satisfied” with the auction
result. Markets are “volatile,” and “any measure that can
stabilize the markets would be welcome,” he said in Madrid
today. He declined to comment on whether the ECB should step up
bond purchases.  Deputy finance minister for the economy,  Jose Manuel Campa ,
said Nov. 30 demand for Spanish debt has been “very good,”
leaving the Treasury in a “comfortable” position. Unlike
Ireland before its rescue, Spain hasn’t canceled any scheduled
bond sales.  Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann 
supported Spain on Nov. 30, saying “mistrust” isn’t justified
and the country “can deal with its problems itself.”  The government, which has ruled out a bailout, says debt
redemptions coincide with periods when most taxes are collected.
Campa said the government can’t mold its policy around short-
term market moves and current prices “aren’t directly related
to the fundamentals” of the Spanish economy.  “Whether Spain’s fundamentals are better than those of
Portugal is perhaps academic and irrelevant at this point,”
Gartmore’s Anderson said. “The market is fear driven.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  