-- Sprint Pushed for Deal Between Clearwire, T-Mobile
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-12-02T21:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/sprint-pushed-for-deal-between-clearwire-t-mobile-goldman-analyst-says.html
Sprint Nextel Corp.  supports a
network accord between partner  Clearwire Corp.  and Deutsche
Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA, said Goldman, Sachs & Co. analyst
 Jason Armstrong , who met with Sprint management yesterday.  “Sprint indicated they have encouraged a wholesale deal,”
wrote Armstrong in a Dec. 1 note, after meeting with Chief
Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  and Chief Financial Officer  Bob Brust . “Sprint would support a T-Mobile equity infusion into
Clearwire,” he wrote, noting it would hinge on the price.  In a wholesale deal, T-Mobile would buy capacity on
Clearwire’s so-called fourth-generation network, which enables
faster Web browsing and video downloads than some other
standards. T-Mobile’s own network uses a different technology.  Clearwire said last month it may not have enough funding to
keep operating and announced a debt sale of at least $1.1
billion today. On Nov. 4, the company said it would pare 15
percent of jobs, reduce sales and marketing spending and delay
its Clear-branded smartphone to help it save as much as $400
million through the first half. Sprint has  a 54 percent stake  in
Clearwire and sells service over the Kirkland, Washington-based
carrier’s network.  Sprint continues to negotiate with Clearwire though “there
was no commitment to a resolution by year-end,” said Armstrong.
The carrier “does not appear to have shareholder support for a
full buy-in of Clearwire, making an equity infusion most
likely,” he said.  Clearwire Falls  Mike DiGioia , a Clearwire spokesman, said the carrier had
previously held discussions with T-Mobile, though he declined to
say if the carriers have held recent talks.  Cristi Allen , a Sprint spokeswoman in Overland Park,
Kansas, and Reid Walker, a  T-Mobile  spokesman in Bellevue,
Washington, both said they had no comments to add.  Sprint gained 9 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $3.86 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Clearwire fell 92
cents, or 13 percent, to $5.90 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading,
its lowest since Dec. 10, 2009. Deutsche Telekom lost 4 cents to
10.02 euros in Frankfurt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  