-- Structured Bonds Lifted by $269 Billion Oil Plan: Brazil Credit
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   F e l i p e   F r i s c h
-- 2010-12-03T00:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/structured-bonds-lifted-by-269-billion-oil-plan-brazil-credit.html
Brazil’s planned 461 billion reais
($271 billion) of investment in its oil and gas industry is
spurring interest in structured-bond sales as companies tap
investor demand for debt tied to the nation’s crude reserves.  Odebrecht Oleo e Gas , the oil services company that
operates two ships for state-owned  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , sold
$1.5 billion of bonds whose principal and interest are tied to
revenue from two deepwater drillships expected to begin
operating next year. The 6.35 percent interest rate on the
notes, the first benchmark offering of project bonds, is
“competitive” with bank loans, Marco Campos Rabello, director
of structured finance at the Salvador, Brazil-based oil and gas
business, said in an interview.  “I’m very confident that there are going to be follow-on
deals early next year,”  Dan Vallimarescu , managing director and
head of Americas debt capital markets at  Banco Santander SA  in
New York, said in an interview. “Every single banker worth his
mettle is pitching this project to every single client.”  More Brazilian equipment manufacturers may turn to the bond
market to help finance construction, attracted by cheaper
interest rates and buoyed by regulations that require  Petrobras 
to make purchases from local suppliers. Brazil, site of the
largest crude discovery in the western hemisphere since Mexico’s
Cantarell in 1976, needs drill ships, platforms and pipelines to
tap as much as 100 billion barrels of oil offshore.  Odebrecht, with contracts to provide five deepwater
drillships to  Petrobras , used the project bonds to refinance a
$1.5 billion bank loan obtained in 2008. The coupon is lower
than what Odebrecht paid on the original loan, Rabello said.  ‘Taken Note’  “Other issuers have taken note and would consider similar
types of issues,” said  Alexei Remizov , head of Brazil debt
capital markets at HSBC, the second-biggest underwriter of
international Brazilian debt this year after  JPMorgan Chase &
Co ., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Petrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, raised about $70
billion in September in the world’s biggest share sale to help
fund its $224 billion, five-year investment plan, the oil
industry’s largest. The company has leased 20 foreign drilling
rigs to begin operation in the next two years as it taps fields
such as Libra, which may contain as many as 15 billion barrels.  Odebrecht $1.5 billion offering of 10-year bonds on Nov. 18
priced to yield 6.375 percent, or 370.3 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Benchmark typically means at least $500 million.  The 6.35 percent securities traded at 103 cents on the
dollar to yield 5.96 percent at 5:44 p.m. in New York, compared
with a 5.8 percent yield on Odebrecht’s 7 percent debt due in
2020 and a 4.7 percent yield on similar-maturity bonds issued by
Petrobras, according to Trace, the bond price-reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  ‘Attractive Asset’  “The whole development of the oil and gas sector is what
makes this an attractive asset,” said Bernardo Costa, a Latin
American structured-finance analyst with Fitch Ratings Inc. in
Chicago. “There’s certainly a lot of opportunity for both the
bank market and the bond market in the long run.”  Brazil’s recent oil discoveries, the largest in the
Americas since 1976, are located in the region known as the pre-
salt, which runs 800 kilometers (500 miles) off the coast. The
oil deposits are located beneath a layer of salt resting as deep
as 3,000 meters (9,800 feet) beneath the ocean surface and
another 5,000 meters below the seabed.  Brazil President-elect Rouseff plans to invest 955 billion
reais in infrastructure development through 2014, including  461
billion reais  for the exploitation of pre-salt oil reserves and
sustainable energy development.  Investor Appetite  “It’s clear that there’s an appetite among overseas
institutional investors to finance oil and gas in Brazil,”
Odebrecht’s Rabello said by telephone. “The advantage of
beginning to borrow in the capital markets is that we’ll have
two sources of financing, and we can always analyze them based
on liquidity and maturity.”  Average yields on Brazilian  company bonds  relative to
benchmarks fell 15 basis points yesterday to 292 basis points,
or, or 2.92 percentage point, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s CEMBI bond index.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. securities fell 7 basis
point to 176 at 5:47 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2013 rose seven basis points to 12.36 percent. The real
gained 0.5 percent to 1.6963 per dollar.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps dropped eight basis
points to 109, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The project bonds allow investors to hold the vessels as
collateral in the case of default, according to Fitch.  Investors are willing to assume these risks because they’re
seeking alternative ways to invest in Brazil’s infrastructure
growth, said  Jonathan Prin , a debt analyst with JPMorgan Asset
Management in New York, which oversees $10.8 billion of
emerging-market fixed-income assets.  “There’s been interest in making the type of investment
where your risk is directly correlated to the infrastructure,”
rather than the bonds of a development bank or steelmaker, he
said in an interview. The credit risk of “blue chip names”
like  Petrobras  and  Odebrecht  and a structure that contains
strong covenants made the bonds “attractive,” he said.  ‘Gigantic’  Project bonds will increase financing for Brazil’s
infrastructure development by freeing up banks’ balance sheets
to make new loans, according to Santander’s Vallimarescu.  “We all know that Brazil has a gigantic infrastructure
funding requirement, as does the rest of the region. There’s
been a real challenge as to where that money’s going to come
from,” said Vallimarescu, who underwrote the Odebrecht bonds
with HSBC Holdings Plc, Banco do Brasil SA, and Deutsche Bank
AG. “The banks are going to be the ones to go in initially to
finance that very early stage construction risk, and then we
will recycle that financing into the bond market.”  Record-low interest rates combined with the need to fund
infrastructure projects across emerging markets may allow more
project bonds to be sold in the future, said Remizov of HSBC.  “The appetite for infrastructure-related bonds has stepped
up in recent years,” Remizov said in a telephone interview.
“That could induce future transactions of this type.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
 Felipe Frisch  in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  or
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  