-- Subbarao Relaxing Loan Curbs as Record Cash Shortage Bites: Indian Credit
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-12-02T09:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/subbarao-relaxing-loan-curbs-as-record-cash-shortage-bites-indian-credit.html
India central bank Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  is easing curbs on the supply of cash at banks as a
record shortage of funds threatens to slow Asia’s second
fastest-growing major economy.  The cost of a one-month  loan  between banks rose for a
fourth month in November, the longest stretch since 2008, to 7.8
percent, according to the National Stock Exchange. The average
amount lenders  borrowed  every day from the Reserve Bank of
India, a benchmark used to measure the availability of money,
almost doubled to 966 billion rupees ($21.3 billion) last month,
including a record 1.5 trillion on Nov. 23.  The monetary authority, which this week relaxed a ruling
that requires banks to invest in government bonds, may follow by
cutting the  cash-reserve ratio  to increase the supply of funds,
a finance ministry official who didn’t want to be identified
said on Nov. 30. India’s stance contrasts with central banks in
China and Brazil, which have been tightening monetary policy to
tackle asset bubbles.  “We cannot sustain any more significant tightening in the
cash markets,” said  Killol Pandya , who manages the equivalent
of $135 million in debt at Shinsei Asset Management Pvt. in
Mumbai. “A cut in the cash-reserve ratio is the most effective
short-term measure to tackle the current squeeze.”  Cash Ratio  The Reserve Bank on Nov. 29 said it would hold repurchase
auctions, at which it lends money, twice every day to help tide
banks over the crunch after an auction of phone licenses drained
cash. Banks can now invest 23 percent of their deposits in debt,
including government bonds, instead of 25 percent earlier, the
central bank also said the same day.  The  monetary authority  last cut the cash-reserve ratio in
2008 to shield the economy from the global financial crisis. The
proportion of money that banks must set aside before lending is
now 6 percent.  The cash reserve ratio “clearly remains an option but we
at this point believe that our monetary stance is still anti-
inflationary,” central bank Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  told
reporters yesterday in New Delhi. “For the time being, we are
using tactical measures. We don’t want to send any mixed signals
about a change in the monetary stance.”  The  cost  of fixing rates on money for three months surged
286 basis points this year to 6.81 percent in India’s interest-
rate swaps market, data compiled by Bloomberg show, after the
federal government raised 677.2 billion rupees by auctioning
third-generation mobile-phone permits in May and 385.4 billion
rupees by selling wireless-broadband Internet services a month
later.  Tax Payments  The payment of quarterly taxes due Dec. 15 by companies
will add to the cash shortage, according to  Sonal Varma , an
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest brokerage.  “Definitely with 500 billion rupees to 600 billion rupees
of outflow in advance taxes, the situation will worsen,” Varma
said in a phone interview from Mumbai on Nov. 30. “It isn’t
entirely premature to start thinking of a cut in the cash
reserve ratio.”  The country’s cash shortage will ease by the end of this
year,  Chakravarthy Rangarajan , the prime minister’s chief
economic adviser, said in New Delhi yesterday, without
elaborating on reasons for such a change.  Underperformance  India’s 10-year  bonds  dropped for a fourth day today on
speculation local banks, the biggest investors in the
securities, will sell debt to raise cash. The yield on the 7.8
percent note due May 2020 rose one basis points to 8.12 percent,
headed for the biggest weekly increase since the five-day period
ended Aug. 20. The rate has advanced 14.9 points since Nov. 26,
compared with a 16.5 point advance in the week to Aug. 20.  The rate on India’s three-year government notes was 7.43
percent. Similar-maturity securities yield 3.10 percent in
China, 7.01 percent in Russia and 12.32 percent in Brazil. That
compares with 0.84 percent for three-year U.S. Treasuries.  India’s rupee rose for a third straight day today after
official data on Nov. 30 showed the economy grew 8.9 percent in
the third quarter, faster than economists estimated. The
currency has strengthened 2.6 percent this year to 45.34 per
dollar.  Inflation Concerns  Price pressures will merit more attention than the cash
crunch in the Reserve Bank’s policy decisions, according to
 Rajeev Radhakrishnan , a Mumbai-based money manager at SBI Funds
Management Pvt. that oversees assets worth $9.2 billion. He said
the central bank wants to hold down inflation that was at 8.58
percent in October, double the government’s “ideal” level.  “I have my doubts whether a cash-reserve ratio cut would
be resorted to,” Radhakrishnan said in a phone interview
yesterday. “The central bank has been consistent in its view
that CRR is a monetary tool and cannot be used as a stop-gap
measure.”  India’s three-month  treasury bill  yields have risen 333
basis points this year to 6.90 percent as the Reserve Bank
raised borrowing costs by 150 points, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The comparable rate climbed 235 points to 11.02 percent in
Brazil and 11 points to 0.16 percent in the U.S. Yields on
similar  notes  from the People’s Bank of China rose 164 points to
2.96 percent.  ‘Money Is Lifeline’  The government sold 40 billion rupees of 91-day bills
yesterday at 6.94 percent, compared with 6.85 percent at the
previous sale on Nov. 24. It auctioned 10 billion rupees of 364-
day debt at 7.27 percent, compared with 7.20 percent on Nov. 16.  Credit-default swaps on State Bank of India rose two basis
points yesterday to 179 basis points, according to data provider
CMA. Such swaps usually pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt, and they rise as perceptions of credit quality
deteriorate.  “Money is the lifeline for any economy,”  D. H. Pai Panandiker , president of the RPG Foundation, an economic policy
group in New Delhi, said in a phone interview yesterday. “If it
becomes scarce, then companies won’t be able expand and it will
hurt the economy. The effort should be to further reduce the
shortage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 