-- SUV Bumpers Should Be Lower to Prevent Damage to Smaller Cars, Study Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-12-02T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/suv-bumpers-should-be-lower-to-prevent-damage-to-smaller-cars-study-says.html
Bumpers on sport-utility vehicles
should be lowered because they fail to prevent damage to smaller
cars in crash tests, according to a study by a U.S. auto
insurer-sponsored group.  Combined estimated-damage costs for an SUV hitting the rear
of a stopped car at 10 miles per hour ranged from $2,995 to
$7,444, and for a car into an SUV it was $3,601 to $9,867,
according to the study released today by the  Insurance Institute
for Highway Safety .  U.S. regulations require all cars to have rear and front
bumpers that protect within a zone of 16 inches to 20 inches
from the ground, according to the Arlington, Virginia-based
organization. Bumpers are meant to prevent damage from low-speed
crashes. The regulations don’t apply to SUVs.  “Instead of the bumpers hitting each other and bumping,
you wind up with” costly crashes, John Nolan, chief
administrative officer for IIHS, said in a telephone interview.
“Regulating SUV bumpers would ease the burden,” he said in the
report.  The nonprofit IIHS conducted front-into-rear crash tests of
seven pairs of 2010-11 models, each pair consisting of a car and
an SUV to determine if bumpers reduce damages in crashes of
different-sized vehicles from the same manufacturer. The
smallest SUV from each automaker was used because the group had
tested larger SUVs in similar experiments with the same results,
Nolan said.  “Automakers should at the least pay attention to bumper
compatibility across their own fleets,” Nolan said. “The
results show that many don’t.”  Highest, Lowest Costs  In the IIHS tests, a  Nissan Motor Co.  Rogue SUV crashing
into a Nissan Sentra caused $7,444 in damage.  Honda Motor Co. ’s
CR-V hitting a Honda Civic resulted in damages of $2,995.  In the rear crash of a car into an SUV, a  Toyota Motor
Corp.  Corolla hitting a Toyota RAV4 caused $9,867 in damages and
a  Hyundai Motor Co.  Kia Forte crashing into a Hyundai Tucson had
$3,601 in damages.  “It’s very understandable that when they go into each
other they’re not going to face off equally,”  Tom Libby ,
president of the Society of Automotive Analysts, said in a
telephone interview. “To impose another regulation on top of
existing ones is going to run into some resistance, particularly
in these times where two are just getting out of bankruptcy.”  General Motors Co . last month sold shares to partially
repay the U.S. government’s $49.5 billion bailout of the
automaker. Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler Group LLC
received $13 billion of government assistance.  2008 Petition  In 2008 the IIHS petitioned the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, the government agency that oversees
vehicle safety, to regulate bumpers on SUVs and pickups to be
the same as cars.  The regulation would “significantly reduce the
functionality and versatility of these vehicles,” the Alliance
of Automobile Manufacturers, a trade association of 11
automakers, said in 2009.  The largest U.S. SUV makers are GM and  Ford Motor Co .
Detroit-based GM and Ford yesterday reported improved sales in
November as demand for SUVs and pickups pushed the industry
toward matching its fastest sales pace of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at   dkraut@bloomberg.net  