-- Assange Loses Swedish High Court Appeal of Arrest Warrant on Rape Charges
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2010-12-02T13:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/sweden-high-court-won-t-review-wikileaks-founder-s-appeal-of-rape-warrant.html
Sweden’s Supreme Court won’t consider
WikiLeaks founder  Julian Assange’s  appeal of his arrest warrant
on rape charges.  “The Supreme court has reviewed the material and hasn’t
found any reasons for granting leave to appeal,” the Stockholm-
based court said today in an e-mailed statement. The court only
considers cases that may set a precedent or where there are
“special circumstances,” such as new evidence, according to
 its website .  Interpol put Assange on its wanted list after a Stockholm
district court issued a warrant for his arrest on Nov. 18 at the
request of prosecutor  Marianne Ny , who said she had been unable
to question him. The Svea Court of Appeal on Nov. 24 ruled
against Assange’s appeal, while saying the rape charge should be
reduced to a “less serious” degree. The 39-year-old Australian
is also suspected of sexual molestation and unlawful coercion.  WikiLeaks drew condemnation from the U.S. this week for
posting on its website thousands of classified State Department
documents. WikiLeaks.org, created in 2006, receives confidential
material and posts the information on the Internet “so readers
and historians alike can see evidence of the truth,” the
organization says on its website.  Stockholm, Enkoeping  The alleged crimes, which involve two women, took place in
Stockholm and Enkoeping, while Assange was in Sweden lecturing
about the publication of classified U.S. military documents
about the war in Afghanistan.  Assange denies the charges and his lawyer in the U.K.,  Mark Stephens , has said that Assange had consensual sex with the
women.  “This appears to be a persecution and a prosecution,”
Stephens said in an e-mail yesterday. He said Assange has
repeatedly sought meetings with the Swedish prosecutor. “But his
requests have either been ignored or met with a refusal.”  Stephens regularly represents several media organizations,
including Bloomberg News.  Stephens and Assange’s Swedish lawyer Bjoern Hurtig weren’t
immediately available to comment today.  A rape sentence normally leads to between two and six years
in prison and if it is deemed “less serious” to a maximum of
four years in jail, Deputy Director of Public Prosecution Mikael
Bjoerk said today in a phone interview.  Sex Crime Decisions  Ny started her preliminary investigation in September after
a lawyer representing the two women appealed another
prosecutor’s decision to drop the rape charge and reduce
molestation charges. Ny heads the Prosecution Authority
Development Center in Gothenburg, which handles appeals against
prosecutor decisions on sex crimes.  Less than 1 percent of all Swedish prosecutors’ decisions,
or about 2,000, were appealed in 2008, according to the
prosecution authority’s website. The original decision was
changed in 220 cases.  Assange, born in Townsville, Australia, began as a computer
hacker in his native country and pleaded guilty in 1996 to 24
counts of violating the Crimes Act by accessing and inserting
information into computers, including those of  Nortel Networks
Corp.  He received a fine and three years probation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janina Pfalzer  in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 