-- U.K. Stocks Rise For Second Day; Rio Tinto, Kingfisher, TUI Travel Advance
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-12-02T17:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/u-k-stocks-rise-before-ecb-meeting-rio-antofagasta-rally.html
U.K. stocks climbed, sending the FTSE
100 Index to its biggest two-day rally since May, as the
European Central Bank extended an emergency loan program and
bought government bonds to stem the region’s debt crisis.  Rio Tinto Group  led mining companies higher as copper rose
to a three-week high on better-than-forecast U.S. housing data.
Kingfisher Plc jumped more than 7 percent after the retailer
reported a smaller-than-estimated drop in sales at its B&Q
shops. TUI Travel Plc also rallied as the tour operator reported
a pickup in winter booking volumes.  The  FTSE 100  gained 2.2 percent to 5,767.56 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London, the biggest gain in three months and
extending yesterday’s 2.1 percent rise. The gauge fell to a
three-month low earlier this week after the European Union-led
bailout of Ireland failed to convince investors that the debt
crisis will not spread. The  FTSE All-Share Index  added 2.2
percent today, while Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  gained 2.1 percent.  “Confidence has finally taken a turn for the good as
investors piled back into stocks,” said London-based Angus
Campbell, head of sales at Capital Spreads. “Markets were
boosted by the ECB who confirmed they would maintain the
liquidity measures and will continue to buy government bonds.”  Speaking at a press conference in Frankfurt, ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  pledged to fight “acute” financial market
tensions, adding that the central bank will offer banks
unlimited loans through the first quarter over periods of seven
days, one month and three months. As he spoke, ECB staff
embarked upon a new wave of bond purchases, triggering a surge
in Irish and Portuguese bonds.  Rio Tinto, Kingfisher  Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining company, gained
4.9 percent to 4,415 pence as copper led base metals higher on
the London Metal Exchange. BHP Billiton Ltd. rallied 3.7 percent
to 2,450 pence and Xstrata Plc increased 2.6 percent to 1,403
pence.  Copper prices rallied after an index of pending U.S. home
resales jumped a record 10 percent in October. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for 1 percent
decrease in the gauge from the National Association of Realtors.  Separately, copper inventories monitored by the LME
extended a slide to the lowest in almost 14 months.  African Barrick Gold Plc gained 2.3 percent to 552 pence
after the metal producer reported “high-grade success” at its
North Mara project in Tanzania.  Kingfisher, TUI       Kingfisher  jumped 7.2 percent to 254.9 pence. Europe’s
largest home-improvement retailer said third-quarter sales at
U.K. and Irish B&Q stores open at least a year fell 4.2 percent
from the same period a year earlier, beating a company-compiled
consensus estimate of a 7 percent decline.  TUI Travel climbed 7.3 percent to 230 pence after Europe’s
largest tour operator reported a 27 percent increase in winter
booking volumes from Oct. 21 to early December in Nordic
countries, 2 percent in the U.K. and 9 percent in Germany.  Premier Foods Plc jumped 12 percent to 18.56 pence after
Sky News reported on its website that Nestle SA has bid for the
company’s Quorn meat-free food range through its Osem Group
venture. Sky didn’t say where it got the information.  Petrofac Ltd . jumped 2.8 percent to 1,491 pence after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation for the oil-
services company to “buy” from “neutral.”  G4S Plc  rose 2 percent to 243.8 pence after BofA Merrill
Lynch Global Research upgraded the security-services company to
“buy” from “neutral.”  Desire Petroleum Plc soared 25 percent to 132.25 pence
after the energy explorer said its Rachel North well off the
Falkland Islands made the second discovery in the region this
year. Rockhopper Exploration Plc made the first potentially
commercial find around the South American islands in May.  Britvic Slumps  Britvic Plc paced declining shares, falling 2.9 percent to
476.2 pence after the maker of Robinson’s fruit drinks reported
its first full-year loss in at least seven years on writedowns
and restructuring charges at its Irish unit.  JJB Sports Plc plunged 18 percent to 4.74 pence after the
sporting-goods retailer warned that poor sales would probably
lead the company to breach some banking covenants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  