-- U.S. Judge Refuses to Recuse Himself From California Gay Marriage Appeal
-- B y   P a m e l a   A .   M a c L e a n
-- 2010-12-02T22:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/u-s-judge-refuses-to-recuse-himself-from-california-gay-marriage-appeal.html
A judge on the federal appellate
court in San Francisco refused to disqualify himself from
hearing the appeal of a ruling that overturned Proposition 8,
California’s ban on same-sex marriage.  U.S. Circuit Judge  Stephen Reinhardt  rejected the request
in an order filed today in the case. Arguments before the three-
judge panel are scheduled for Dec. 6, according to the docket.  A federal judge in August threw out Proposition 8, ruling
that there was “overwhelming evidence” the law violated
constitutional equal-protection rights. Proponents of the
measure asked the U.S. Court of Appeals to overturn the ruling.  ProtectMarriage.com, a Proposition 8 supporter, filed a
motion yesterday asking Reinhardt to disqualify himself because
“his wife and the organization she leads,” the Southern
California chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, “have
not only been active in seeking to redefine marriage in
California and active in opposition to Proposition 8, but they
have been active participants in this very lawsuit.”  Reinhardt, who was appointed to the court in 1980 by
President  Jimmy Carter , didn’t mention his wife,  Ramona Ripston ,
in his written response today to the request for his
disqualification.  “I am certain that a reasonable person with knowledge of
all the facts would not conclude that my impartiality might
reasonably be questioned,” Reinhardt wrote in his order. He
said he would issue a more detailed written explanation later.  ‘Friends and Family’  In the request for the judge’s recusal, ProtectMarriage.com
said that Ripston signed a letter on behalf of her ACLU chapter
urging the organization’s allies to “talk to close friends and
family” about why the same-sex marriage court battle is
important.  The anti-gay marriage group also said “it appears” the
attorneys who brought the challenge to Proposition 8 “engaged
in ‘confidential discussions’ with Ms. Ripston and ALCU/SC’s
legal director before filing the lawsuit.”  While Ripston and her ACLU chapter weren’t parties to the
litigation, “the focus has consistently been on the question
’whether the relationship between the judge and an interested
party was such as to present a risk that the judge’s
impartiality in the case at bar might reasonably be questioned
by the public’ -- a risk that is manifestly present here,”
ProtectMarriage.com said in its court filing.  Seven Prior Cases  Reinhardt cited seven prior cases dating back to 1997 in
which he removed himself from any review of appeals. Each time,
the ACLU of Southern California represented a party in the case.
Ripston has been executive director of that chapter for 38
years, except for a period of about 18 months, and plans to
retire in February, according to the ACLU’s website.  The cases included a dispute over a company’s participation
in transporting suspected terrorists to foreign countries for
questioning and alleged abuse; a challenge to the recall of
former California Governor  Gray Davis ; and a fight over a ballot
initiative banning most government affirmative-action programs.  Reinhardt, Ripston and the ACLU declined to comment today.  Federal law requires U.S. judges to decide themselves
whether they must step down from a case due to a conflict of
interest or a personal bias, according to  Carl Tobias , law
professor at the University of Richmond in Virginia.  Now that Reinhardt has refused to remove himself from the
gay marriage case, proponents of Proposition 8 could raise the
issue “once the merits of the case are decided,” Tobias said.  Larger Judges’ Panel  He said the losing side in the three-judge panel’s ruling
will probably ask a larger panel of the appeals court to review
the case, at which time Reinhardt’s decision not to disqualify
himself could be challenged.  “ProtectMarriage.com accepts the judge’s decision, but
stands behind the arguments in its motion,” Andrew Pugno,
attorney for the group, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
confident that Proposition 8 and the institution of marriage
will ultimately prevail.”  Gay marriage supporters praised Reinhardt’s action as
appropriate in this case.  “If we recuse a judge every time a spouse gets involved in
activities we’ll have a difficult time getting judges,”  Therese Stewart , chief deputy city attorney for San Francisco, said in a
phone interview.  The city filed court briefs supporting same-
sex marriage.  “What is really going on is the proponents don’t like the
decisions by Judge Reinhardt in other cases,” Stewart said.
“They fear his decision in this case and this is a mechanism to
get him off the case.”  The two other members of the panel are  N. Randy Smith ,
appointed to the court in 2007 by then-President  George W. Bush ,
and  Michael Daly Hawkins , appointed by  Bill Clinton  in 1994.  The case is Perry v. Schwarzenegger, 10-16696, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco). The lower
court case is Perry v. Schwarzenegger, 09-02292, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pamela A. MacLean at   pmaclean@pacbell.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 