-- U.S. Home Prices to Drop Additional 10%, Says Subprime Investor Lippmann
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2010-12-02T17:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/u-s-home-prices-to-drop-additional-10-says-subprime-investor-lippmann.html
U.S.  home prices  will drop an
additional 10 percent, according to  Greg Lippmann , a founder of
hedge fund LibreMax Capital LLC and former Deutsche Bank AG
trader who gained fame for his bets against subprime- mortgage 
securities.  While buyers of home-loan securities are anticipating the
decline, investors in other markets aren’t pricing in the
potential drop, Lippmann said today at the Hedge Funds New York
Conference hosted by Bloomberg Link. As a result, mortgage  debt 
that’s soared in price this year is still cheaper relative to
high-yield, high-risk corporate bonds, he said.  “If housing prices go down 10 percent, the mortgage market
is going to do fine because that’s what is priced in,” Lippmann
said. “Broader markets aren’t pricing in housing down another
10 percent.”  Lippmann focused his hedge fund’s buying on subprime-
mortgage  debt  in October, its first month, according to an
investor letter. He especially favors older bonds from 2002 and
2003, whose underlying borrowers still have equity in their
homes, Lippmann said today. The fund gained about 1.67 percent
in October as it invested 44.4 percent of its portfolio in bonds
backed by subprime loans to borrowers with the worst credit.  The 41-year old bond trader started New York-based LibreMax
Capital, which oversees about $400 million of assets, with  Fred Brettschneider , the former head of global markets in the
Americas at Deutsche Bank. The two departed the German lender
this year.  Homeowner Delinquencies  As homeowner delinquencies soared in 2007, Lippmann’s team
made almost $2 billion for Deutsche Bank wagering against
subprime debt through credit-default swaps, according to “The
Greatest Trade Ever” (Broadway Books) by  Greg Zuckerman . The
trader also battled others at his company to hold and expand the
bets against residential real estate, according to the book and
 Michael Lewis ’s “The Big Short” (Norton/Allen Lane).  Home prices around 20 large U.S. cities  fell  almost 32
percent from a 2006 peak before bottoming in May 2009, according
to an S&P/Case-Shiller index. The gauge dropped 0.8 percent in
September from the prior month after adjusting for seasonal
variations.  Paulson, Hayman  An index of pending home resales jumped a record 10 percent
in October after dropping 1.8 percent in September, the National
Association of Realtors said today in Washington. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a 1 percent
decrease. The group’s data go back to 2001.  Lippmann was part of a group of Wall Street traders who
created the standardized default-swap contracts that made it
easier for hedge funds including  John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co.
and Hayman Advisors LP to bet against housing. Paulson and
Hayman, run by  Kyle Bass , were among investors who later began
buying mortgage bonds at beaten-down prices.  After the traders created the contracts, Deutsche Bank paid
$429 million in January 2007 to buy MortgageIT, a home lender
specializing in  Alt-A mortgages . Those loans are a step up from
subprime whose default rates have also climbed. The Frankfurt-
based bank, which later shuttered the unit, has suffered $20.9
billion of writedowns and credit losses since that month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreclosure Moratoriums  Almost 41 percent of  subprime mortgages  packaged into bonds
are at least 30 days delinquent, Bloomberg data show. Investors
need to be prepared for a variety of responses by policymakers,
from foreclosure moratoriums to new loan-modification programs,
Lippmann said today.  “When we’re constructing our portfolio we’re constantly
looking for ways to hedge that governmental risk,” he said. For
instance, purchasing bonds that benefit from one type of plan
and others that would gain from alternative proposals, he said.  There are few opportunities to make investments similar to
the 2006 and 2007 bets against the subprime market, which
offered potentially large gains at little cost, Lippmann said.  “It’s something we’re always on the look-out for,” he
said. “It would never be more than 10 percent of our books, but
today it’s less than 1 percent.”  A  Markit ABX  index of credit-default swaps tied to 20
subprime-loan bonds rated AAA when created in the second half of
2006 has climbed almost 33 percent this year, according to
administrator Markit Group Ltd. An increase generally indicates
less pessimism about the value of subprime debt.  The index’s  levels  are typically similar to the prices
being paid for the underlying securities in cents on the dollar.  The index rose to 56.08 yesterday after falling as low as
28.46 in April 2009.  High-yield, high-risk company bond prices, meanwhile, have
risen 5.3 cents to 100.78 cents on the dollar this year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The debt,
ranked below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than
BBB- by Standard & Poor’s, has climbed from 54.8 cents in
December 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ; or
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 