-- U.S. Forces Disciplined Over Reporting of Rescue That Killed U.K. Hostage
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-12-02T14:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/u-s-forces-disciplined-over-reporting-of-rescue-that-killed-u-k-hostage.html
U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan have
been disciplined for failing to report that a grenade had been
thrown during the attempt to rescue British hostage Linda
Norgrove from her Taliban captors that ended in her death.  “The failure to disclose information that a grenade was
thrown breached U.S. military law,” U.K. Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  told Parliament in London today. “Members of the
rescue team have been disciplined for failing to provide a
complete and full account of their actions.”  Hague was presenting the results of a joint U.S.-U.K. probe
into how the rescue went wrong and why American forces initially
reported Norgrove had been killed by her captors. He refused to
give more details of the disciplinary action, beyond saying that
while the junior soldier who threw the grenade had reported it,
this hadn’t been passed on. Initial reports said Norgrove had
been killed by her captors, possibly by a suicide vest.  “Linda Norgrove died as a result of penetrating
fragmentation injuries to the head and chest,” Hague said. “It
is clear that the injuries were caused by the grenade.”  Norgrove, 36, an aid worker for  Washington-based DAI , died
during a rescue mission on Oct. 8. Special forces had traveled
by two helicopters in total darkness to a “near vertical”
mountainside, Hague said. Intelligence reports had led them to
believe she was being held in the upper of two sets of
buildings. During an exchange of fire at the lower set of
buildings, less than a minute after landing, a U.S. soldier
threw the grenade that killed her.  ‘Feared For His Life’  “A grenade was thrown by a member of the rescue team who
feared for his own life and for those of his team, towards a
gully from which some of the insurgents had emerged,” Hague
said. “When the grenade was thrown no member of the team had
seen or heard Linda Norgrove.”  Hague praised the efforts and bravery of the rescue team.
“This is an operation that came tantalizingly close to
success,” he said. “We must not lose sight of the enormous
expertise and skill and bravery that was involved in even
getting close to that point of having a prospect of being able
to rescue a hostage.”  Nearly 1,000 U.S. and Afghan forces were involved in
locating Norgrove and attempting to rescue her.  “We judged that Linda Norgrove’s life was in grave danger
from the moment she was abducted, and we feared that her captors
would pass her higher up the Taliban chain of command or move
her to more inaccessible terrain,” Hague said. “We also judged
that the only credible prospect of securing her release was
through a rescue attempt, which is why I authorized such an
attempt to be made.”  Hague said the U.S. is now reviewing its post-operational
procedures to ensure the correct sequence of events is revealed
more accurately and earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 