-- TUI Travel Loss Widens After Winter Capacity Reductions, Iceland Volcano
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-12-02T09:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/tui-travel-loss-widens-after-winter-capacity-reductions-iceland-volcano.html
TUI Travel Plc , Europe’s largest tour
operator, said its full-year loss widened after the company
reduced capacity and as bookings slowed following airspace
closures caused by the eruption of a volcano in Iceland.  The net loss was 104 million pounds ($163 million) in the
12 months through September compared with a restated loss of 67
million pounds a year earlier, the Crawley, England-based
company said today in a statement. Bookings have improved since
July, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Long  said in the statement.  The volume of tourist arrivals worldwide will probably grow
at a slower pace next year as consumers spend less because of
faltering economies, according to research by Euromonitor
International. TUI Travel’s smaller rival  Thomas Cook Group Plc 
reported a full-year loss yesterday because of the costs of
assisting passengers amid shutdowns of European airspace caused
by the volcanic ash cloud in April and May.  “The tone of today’s statement and current trading may see
the shares go better, but we continue to believe that the shares
are fairly priced, with Thomas Cook offering better value,”
 Nick Batram , a London-based analyst at KBC Peel Hunt, said in a
report today. He has a “hold”  recommendation  on TUI Travel.  TUI Travel rose as much as 16 pence, or 7.5 percent, to
230.4 pence and was up 4.6 percent as of 9:29 a.m. in London
trading. That narrowed the stock’s decline this year to 12
percent, valuing the company at 2.5 billion pounds. Thomas Cook
gained as much as 3.8 percent in London today.  Operating Profit Rises  Operating profit at TUI Travel rose 11 percent to 447
million pounds, compared to the 441 million-pound average of
nine analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Winter losses in the U.K. and Ireland widened because of
capacity reductions spurred by an expectation that demand for
holiday trips would decline, the company said. Airspace
closures, government austerity measures and better-than-average
U.K. weather reduced people’s desire to travel, it said. Costs
resulting from the volcanic-ash cloud amounted to 104 million
pounds, TUI Travel said.  The company, which is “cautious about 2011” because of
questions about how economic growth will develop, has noted an
’’improvement in demand’’ that has continued since July, Long
said on a conference call.  Results for the year ended September 2009 were restated to
reflect 117 million pounds in write-offs at the U.K. business
after faults in integrating computer systems following the 2007
merger of First Choice Holidays Plc and the tourism unit of TUI
AG, the company said. TUI Travel is “totally satisfied” with
current accounting controls, Long said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 