-- UniCredit's Annunziata Hired as GE's Chief Economist to Aid Foreign Growth
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-12-02T18:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/unicredit-s-annunziata-hired-as-ge-s-chief-economist-to-aid-foreign-growth.html
Marco Annunziata  will become  General
Electric Co. ’s chief economist next month after leaving the
same job at UniCredit SpA, Italy’s biggest bank.  “Marco’s distinguished background and extensive knowledge
will provide GE with world-class leadership in macro-economic
and geo-political trend analysis,” the company, which also
appointed Annunziata as executive director, said in a statement
today. “Marco is a respected, global leader and we are
delighted he is joining GE.”  GE Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is bolstering the
Fairfield Connecticut-based company’s management structure
overseas as growth from international and emerging markets
outpaces  that in the U.S.  and developed economies. Last month,
GE named Vice Chairman  John Rice  to oversee an new international
business structure. About 54 percent of sales came from outside
the U.S. in 2009, up from 45 percent in 2005 as the U.S.
grappled with the worst recession since the 1930s.  Annunziata, 45, who joined UniCredit from  Deutsche Bank AG 
in 2003 and previously worked for the International Monetary
Fund, oversaw economics, fixed-income and foreign-exchange
research in the London office of the Italian lender. At GE,
he’ll report to  Beth Comstock , the chief marketing officer.  GE is the world’s biggest maker of power-generation
equipment, jet engines, locomotives, medical-imaging machines
and related information-technology services. Other divisions
include aircraft leasing, lending to small and middle-market
companies, credit cards, real estate, lighting, water treatment
and appliances.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  