-- Uralkali, Polymetal Investor to Spend $1 Billion for Railcar-Plant Project
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-12-02T08:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/uralkali-polymetal-investor-to-spend-1-billion-for-railcar-plant-project.html
Russian billionaire  Alexander Nesis ,
an investor in  OAO Polymetal  and  OAO Uralkali , plans to spend $1
billion on a railcar-factory project to meet domestic demand for
transporting raw materials from mines and smelters.  “We reckon upon a simple thing,” he said in an interview.
“Russia has one of the largest railcar fleets in the world and
the majority of these are old and need to be replaced soon.”  Nesis’s ICT Group will invest the money in the Tikhvin
railcar factory that’s set to begin annual output of at least
10,000 vehicles from the second half of 2011. The plant in
Tikhvin, in Leningrad region, northwest Russia, may sell shares
through an initial public offering at some point, Nesis said.  Russia has about 1 million railcars in operation, according
to Brunswick Rail Leasing, while private cargo carriers are
building up their own fleets. State-owned vehicles have a
lifespan of about 20 years, according to  OAO Russian Railways .  The Tikhvin plant says it signed long-term contracts with
Russian Railways subsidiaries and private operators including
Transgarant. The factory will employ 3,500 people, about a
quarter of the workers used in Russian facilities that have
similar production volumes, Nesis said. The company built a new
operation at the site of a Soviet-era producer of tractors using
technology from  Wabtec Corp.  of the U.S.  “We decided to spend $200 million on building apartments
in Tikhvin to attract workers from other regions,” Nesis said
in Moscow. “We are offering them houses, mortgage loans and the
work that allows them to repay these loans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 