-- VDA Industry Group Forecasts Higher German Auto Sales, Exports Next Year
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-12-02T13:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/vda-industry-group-forecasts-higher-german-auto-sales-exports-next-year.html
German car sales will probably rise
6.9 percent next year as falling unemployment and rising
payrolls in Europe’s largest economy boost demand, the country’s
automotive industry group said.  Deliveries in Germany, Europe’s biggest auto market, are
likely to increase to 3.1 million vehicles in 2011 from 2.92
million this year,  Matthias Wissmann , head of the Berlin-based
German carmakers’ association, or  VDA , said today at a news
conference.  “The recovery is slowly taking hold in consumption,”
Wissmann, a former transportation minister, said. “We expect a
stable uptrend” in the country’s automotive industry.  German unemployment fell for a 17th month in November while
business confidence surged to a record, helping to boost demand.
Carmakers including  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG ,  Daimler AG ’s
Mercedes-Benz and General Motors Co.’s Opel brand are shortening
Christmas breaks at factories to meet surging demand.  Wissmann said domestic orders at German-based carmakers
have been growing “steadily and at a gathering pace” since
September. Capacity utilization in the German auto industry has
rebounded to 85 percent in the fourth quarter from 62 percent in
last year’s second quarter, he said.  Incentive Program  German-based carmakers’ production will probably increase 5
percent next year to a record 5.8 million units while exports
may grow by the same margin to a record 4.4 million vehicles,
according to VDA.  Car sales in Germany fell 6 percent in November to 262,600
units, slowing the decline in year-to-date deliveries to 25
percent or 2.68 million units, the group said, citing
preliminary figures.  “It was clear to everybody that there would be a drop
following last year’s sales-incentive program,” Wissmann said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 