-- VimpelCom Plans to Complete Orascom Deal in First Half of 2011
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-12-02T11:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/vimpelcom-plans-to-complete-orascom-merger-agreement-in-first-half-of-2011.html
VimpelCom Ltd.,  seeking a $6.5
billion merger with  Naguib Sawiris ’s  Orascom Telecom Holding
SAE  and Weather Investments SpA, aims to close the deal in the
first half of 2011 as it seeks approval from shareholders.  The company said in October it planned to complete the
merger “early February.” Today, Chief Executive Officer
 Alexander Izosimov  said in a statement that he “anticipates”
closing the deal in the first half of 2011.  “Given the size and complexity of the deal, we are
satisfied with the progress made thus far,” Izosimov said.
“We remain committed and continue to move forward.”  The two companies have yet to sign an agreement to create
the world’s fifth largest mobile-phone company as Orascom tries
to resolve a dispute with the Algerian government over its
local unit, Djezzy. The Algerian government, which wants to buy
Djezzy, has ordered Orascom to pay more than $800 million in
back taxes and banned it from transferring money abroad,
penalties that the company has contested.  The Egyptian company has said it could be in international
arbitration by the second quarter of next year unless it can
resolve the dispute.  Orascom has sought to cut debt ahead of the merger with
the Russian company. In November, it agreed to sell its 50
percent holding in Tunisiana for $1.2 billion, in a deal that
was supported by VimpelCom, which said it couldn’t gain full
control of the asset.  Sawiris may consider selling assets individually rather
than as a group to VimpelCom, analysts, including ING Groep’s
 Dalibor Vavruska , have said.  Orascom is selling the Tunisian holding at a multiple of
6.7 times 2009 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, higher than the 6.2 multiple for the
VimpelCom deal.  VimpelCom said today that third-quarter net income rose 14
percent from a year earlier to $496 million. Net operating
revenue climbed 24 percent to $2.82 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London via 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  