-- VimpelCom to Spin Off Korea, Mobinil at Book Value
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-12-02T16:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/vimpelcom-will-spin-off-korea-mobinil-assets-at-book-value.html
VimpelCom Ltd. , which is seeking a
$6.5 billion merger with  Naguib Sawiri s’s Orascom Telecom
Holding SAE and Weather Investments SpA, will spin off Egyptian
and North Korean assets at book value following the deal.  “Orascom would split off its share in Mobinil and in Korea
and there will be a spin-off at book value in principle, in line
with Egyptian regulation,” Chief Financial Officer  Henk van Dalen  said in a phone interview today.  Sawiris said in October that VimpelCom, which has its
headquarters in Amsterdam, will spin off the assets into a
separate company on completion of the merger. The company said
today it aims to close the deal in the first half of 2011 as it
seeks approval from shareholders. VimpelCom initially said in
October it planned to complete the merger by February.  “Given the size and complexity of the deal, we are
satisfied with the progress made thus far,” Chief Executive
Officer  Alexander Izosimov  said. “We remain committed and
continue to move forward.”  Orascom owns 34.6 percent of Mobinil, Egypt’s second-biggest
mobile operator. The company owns 75 percent of its North Korean
unit, which provides services to the capital  Pyongyang .  The two companies have yet to sign a final agreement to
create the world’s fifth largest mobile-phone company as Orascom
tries to resolve a dispute with the Algerian government over its
local unit, Djezzy.  Back Taxes  The Algerian government, which wants to buy Djezzy, has
ordered it to pay more than $800 million in back taxes and
banned it from transferring money abroad, penalties that Orascom
has contested. The Egyptian company has said it could be in
international arbitration by the second quarter of next year
unless it can resolve the dispute.  VimpelCom is not in talks with the Algerian government over
 Djezzy , while it waits for the government to appoint advisers,
CFO van Dalen said today.  “There are contacts with them from time to time,” van Dalen
said. “At the moment, there’s no reason to step into
discussions, it is better to leave as is.”  Orascom has been seeking to cut debt ahead of the merger
with the Russian company. In November, it agreed to sell its 50
percent holding in Tunisiana for $1.2 billion, in a deal that
was supported by VimpelCom, which said it couldn’t gain full
control of the asset.  Sawiris may consider selling assets individually rather
than as a group to VimpelCom, analysts, including  Dalibor Vavruska , an analyst at ING Groep, have said.  Orascom is selling the Tunisian holding at a multiple of
6.7 times 2009 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortisation, higher than the 6.2 multiple for VimpelCom deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London via 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  