-- Vodafone May Win Customers From License Scandal Roiling India Phone Market
-- B y   S u b r a m a n i a m   S h a r m a   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2010-12-03T07:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/vodafone-may-win-customers-from-license-scandal-roiling-india-phone-market.html
Vodafone Group Plc  and  Bharti Airtel
Ltd.  may gain customers because a scandal roiling the world’s
second-largest mobile-phone market is pressuring India to cancel
licenses issued to smaller carriers, analysts said.  Phone users may defect to carriers other than those
identified by an audit last month as having fraudulently bought
licenses in 2008, said  Rohit Maheshwari , an analyst at K.R.
Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt.  Idea Cellular Ltd ., India’s
sixth-largest operator, may also stand to gain for similar
reasons, he said.  The government said this week it will give the owners of 85
phone permits two months to prove they’re entitled to keep
offering services after India’s top auditor found the 2008 sale
of licenses deprived the treasury of as much as $30 billion. The
probe has led to the resignation of the telecommunications
minister and stalled parliamentary proceedings.  “If licenses for some players get canceled, it would
certainly reduce the competitive intensity,” said  Maheshwari ,
who’s based in Mumbai. “We could see their customers shifting
to established players like Bharti and Idea, which I feel could
add to their profits.”  Bharti’s 13 percent  gain  since Nov. 16, when the auditor’s
report was submitted to parliament, makes it the best-performing
stock in the Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark  Sensitive Index .
IIFL Capital Ltd. raised its  investment rating  on Bharti to
“buy” from “reduce” this week, citing easing competition and
reduced regulatory uncertainty.  ‘Unbelievably Low’ Prices  Bharti rose 2 percent to 353 rupees while the benchmark
Sensex Index gained 0.1 percent at 12:46 p.m. in Mumbai.  India, the world’s largest wireless market after China, had
687.7 million mobile phone users at the end of September.
Billionaire  Sunil Mittal ’s Bharti leads with 20.8 percent market
share, followed by  Reliance Communications Ltd. ’s 17.1 percent,
 Vodafone ’s 16.8 percent and billionaire  Kumar Mangalam Birla ’s
Idea with 10.8 percent.  The Comptroller and Auditor General of India said last
month that the telecommunications ministry awarded so-called
second-generation licenses to 13 ineligible companies two years
ago. The ministry sold 157 licenses at such “unbelievably low”
prices that the government may have lost 1.4 trillion rupees
($30 billion) in potential revenue, according to the auditor.  The 13 companies had a combined 20.4 million customers as
of the end of September, according to data from the Telecom
Regulatory Authority of India.  ‘Not Stressed’  Telenor ASA  and Emirates Telecom Corp. were among operators
that purchased stakes in Indian companies whose license
applications should have been rejected in 2008 because they were
unqualified, according to the auditor’s report.  Norway’s  Telenor , which owns a majority stake in Unitech
Wireless Ltd., and operates under brand Uninor, said it hasn’t
received a notice from the government and is focused on
expanding and adding customers in the country.  “We are not too stressed about this,” said Glenn
Mandelid, a Telenor Asia spokesman, on Dec. 1. “Our focus now
is to keep the momentum in the market place.”  Bharti declined to comment in response to e-mailed
questions.  Rajat Mukarji , chief corporate affairs officer at
Idea, declined to comment. Etisalat’s spokesman Ahmed bin Ali
could not be immediately reached. Vodafone Essar Ltd. declined
to comment on “speculative scenarios” in an e-mailed response
to questions.  Investors such as  Gernot Schrotter  say that the benefits
for the incumbent service providers may not be significant.  Penny a Minute  “The uncertainty still stands in the short term,” said
Schrotter, who helps manage about $320 million in Asian stocks,
including Bharti, at Erste Sparinvest KAP in Vienna. “Risk
premium needs to be added to the sector, and even to the larger
names.”  Bharti’s  profit  fell 27 percent last quarter after it cut
call rates to win a larger share of the market in Africa and
compete with 14 other companies in India. Reliance’s  profit  fell
40 percent as a price war that slashed tariffs to a penny a
minute damped revenue.  A reduction in the number of operators in India, at a time
when companies such as Bharti are getting ready to start
offering more profitable third-generation network services, may
help them raise call tariffs,  Alex Mathews , head of research at
Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services Ltd. said.  The start of the so-called third-generation services may
boost revenue for companies such as Bharti, Mathews said.  “3G growth will be enormous,” said Mathews. “Those who
have a contrarian view on the sector, this is the right time to
pick telecom stocks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net ;
 Shikhar Balwani  in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  