-- Twain Mocked Virgin Birth in Memoir Kept Secret for a Century: Interview
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2010-12-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/twain-mocked-virgin-birth-in-memoir-kept-secret-for-a-century-interview.html
Mark Twain  wanted his autobiography
kept under wraps for 100 years after his death. That was 100
years ago. While much of the book has dribbled out in bits and
pieces in the decades since, the Mark Twain Project at the
 University of California, Berkeley , has just released Volume 1
(of three) of an authoritative edition, and it’s turning up on
best-seller lists.  I telephoned the volume’s editor, Harriet Elinor Smith, at
her office in Berkeley.  Seligman: Were you expecting this level of sales?  Smith: We’re certainly surprised. It’s fascinating that
Twain is still so very popular. Of course, it was a great
marketing strategy to say that it had been withheld for 100
years. We always try to clarify that almost all of it has been
previously published elsewhere.  There are a couple of pieces that haven’t been published
before. They’re not by any means his best work, but even the
stuff that would make me want to turn the page people have
called out as interesting. There are always gems of language;
there’s always something distinctly Mark Twain there.  Seligman: Do you think any of it would really have gotten
him into trouble?  Smith: I do. There are some statements coming up in the
next volume that he said he wanted suppressed for 500 years. His
popularity was important to him. He was vain, and he definitely
didn’t want to be attacked.  Joseph of Nazareth  The most “shocking” thing, quote-unquote, is his remarks
about Christianity. I was working on a part the other day in
which he’s talking about the virgin birth. He says that Joseph
believed Mary’s story because he was born in Nazareth -- no
carpenter in New York today would have taken that statement at
par.  Seligman: What about personal attacks?  Smith: He could get pretty vicious. Of course, he always
managed to be funny in the process. He had unpleasant things to
say about his former publisher, Elisha Bliss, whom he called a
“bastard monkey” and a “skinny, yellow, toothless, bald-
headed, rat-eyed professional liar and scoundrel.” He accuses
people of being malicious, venal and stupid.  Seligman: What are your favorite parts?  Roots of Thanksgiving  Smith: There’s a passage I read to my family on
Thanksgiving, in which he says that the holiday “originated in
New England two or three centuries ago when those people
recognized that they really had something to be thankful for --
annually, not oftener -- if they had succeeded in exterminating
their neighbors, the Indians, during the previous 12 months
instead of getting exterminated by their neighbors the
Indians.”  I found the family vignettes the most moving. I’ve always
wondered about Twain’s wife. She seems like such a timid, sweet
person -- I can’t imagine what it would be like for her to be
married to him.  Seligman: What does he say about politics?  Smith: He attacks President  Theodore Roosevelt  for his
character. He liked him as a person but felt he was an
ineffective statesman.  ‘Uniformed Assassins’  In general he was very anti-imperialist. His strongest
language is for what he calls our “uniformed assassins,” the
U.S. troops in the Philippines battling the Moros, indigenous
people who were basically fighting with bows and arrows:  “The completeness of the victory is established by this
fact: that of the 600 Moros not one was left alive. The
brilliancy of the victory is established by this other fact, to
wit: that of our 600 heroes only 15 lost their lives.”  Seligman: Anything about the new book you’re particularly
proud of?  Smith: I’d like for people to know there’s an online
edition available for free at  marktwainproject.org . There’s also
a Kindle version -- which allows you to look at the text with
larger print -- and an audio book.  Seligman: How long have you been working on the Mark Twain
Project?  Smith: Thirty-three years, and I’m not even the most senior
person here!  “Autobiography of Mark Twain, Volume 1” is published by
the University of California Press (736 pages, $34.95). To buy
this book in North America, click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 