-- Banks Get Diluted Version of WikiLeaks: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-12-02T21:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/wall-street-gets-diluted-version-of-wikileaks-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
(Corrects figure in fourth paragraph to billion.)  The deed is done, and the world is a
better place. At least the  stock market  is higher.  The Federal Reserve, complying with a provision of the
Dodd-Frank Act on financial regulation, posted detailed
information on its website yesterday on loan  transactions  that
took place between Dec. 1, 2007, and July 21, 2010.  We now know who was on the receiving end of Fed credit
during the financial panic of 2008 and its aftermath; how much
these institutions borrowed; when they borrowed it; what
interest rate they paid; and how much and what kind of
collateral they pledged to secure the Fed loans.  For example, we learned that Bank of America Corp. posted
the largest share of crappy collateral (Ba-rated or lower) for
loans totaling $688.9 billion from the Primary Dealer Credit
Facility.  Now that most of the loans have been repaid and financial
markets are functioning on their own, there was little threat
from disclosing crisis-lending data.  We have yet to learn any details of bank borrowings at the
Fed’s discount window, a lender-of-last-resort facility
operational since 1914. The Fed has always guarded information
on its counterparties closely, and for good reason.  Scouring Data  In the old days -- in the 1970s and 1980s, for example --
traders and analysts would scour the Fed’s Thursday night data
releases for signs of a spike in  discount window borrowings  on
the final day of the two-week settlement period. (That’s when
banks have to reconcile their required reserves with their
deposits.) If the numbers showed unusually large borrowings on
that Wednesday in a particular Fed district, traders would
whittle down the potential candidates and settle on one. Rumor
or fact, that bank could have trouble funding itself.  That sort of information had the power to create
dislocations in the market, says  Ward McCarthy , chief financial
economist at Jefferies & Co. in New York. “It did increase the
speculative nature of the funding market at that time.”  I remember one occasion during the first Gulf War in 1991
when the  funds rate  spiked to 100 percent (that’s an annualized
rate) on settlement day. Yet some bank paid the price rather
than incur the stigma of going to the discount window. The Fed
had to practically beg banks to avail themselves of discount
window loans during the financial crisis.  Yesterday’s release of about 21,000 transactions totaling
$3.3 trillion was a data-maven’s delight. For the foes of
central banking, it was a triumph of good over evil. For
opponents of Fed secrecy, it was a victory for transparency.  Reality Check  For most of us, I’d venture to say the data were ancient
history: nice to have when you want to regale your grandchildren
with stories about the Week the World Almost Ended, but nothing
that’s going to make you change your behavior or cause you to
take your money out of the bank.  Sure, there were hard numbers to upend soft stories. For
example, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has maintained it didn’t need
emergency Fed loans to survive following the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008. The Fed data show that
Goldman had $35.4 billion of borrowings outstanding through the
Term Securities Lending Facility and Primary Dealer Credit
Facility on Oct. 21, 2008. That represented more than 70 percent
of the firm’s book value.  The Fed’s data dump, which is being perused by journalists
and bloggers for gotcha items, is less embarrassing to financial
institutions than WikiLeaks’ release of State Department cables
-- referring to French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  as an “emperor
with no clothes” -- was to foreign dignitaries.  Sun Shines In  Most of the crisis-lending facilities have been closed --
without the Fed incurring any credit losses, the central bank
noted in its press release.  Over the years the Fed has gradually lifted the veil on its
inner workings. It wasn’t that long ago (pre-1994) financial
markets had to guess at policy changes. Now they’re announced at
the time.  Dodd-Frank, passed in July, requires disclosure of discount
window borrowings, starting with July 2010 transactions, with a
two-year lag. That’s long enough to protect wobbly financial
institutions from bank runs and destabilize financial markets
yet still young enough to be of some historical value.  The world didn’t end with yesterday’s disclosure of
financial crisis lending yesterday. Delayed data on discount
window borrowings should be equally benign.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  