-- Wall Street Journal Magazine, New York Section Profitable, CEO Hinton Says
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2010-12-02T21:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/wall-street-journal-magazine-new-york-section-profitable-ceo-hinton-says.html
The two-year-old Wall Street Journal
weekend magazine and the newspaper’s daily New York City section
are profitable, according to  Les Hinton , chief executive officer
of  News Corp. ’s Dow Jones division.  The Dec. 4 issue of WSJ., the first under former Conde Nast
editor Deborah Needleman, will be “significantly profitable”
and lift the lifestyle magazine project past “break even,”
Hinton said in an interview. The seven-month-old New York City
section attracts enough advertisers to cover costs, he said.  The two initiatives are among the high-profile changes
 Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. has brought to Dow Jones since
acquiring the parent of the Journal in December 2007 for $5.5
billion. WSJ. is distributed with the weekend Journal newspaper,
which delivers physical copies to about 1.6 million subscribers,
according to Hinton. About another 150,000 copies of the
magazine are distributed with the Journal in Asia and Europe.  “Even given the downturn, we kept the momentum going,” he
said. “We put in a lot of additional spending in terms of
pages, marketing and everything else, which so far is making
good for us.”  In gauging the profitability of the two projects, Dow Jones
counts direct expenses such as dedicated staff, though not costs
associated with contributions from other journalists at the Wall
Street Journal, the company said. The magazine and section also
don’t pay separate distribution costs since they are delivered
with the Journal.  The newspaper itself is profitable too, Hinton said. He
declined to give revenue figures for the magazine and section.  Newspaper War  WSJ., which started as a quarterly and is moving to 10
issues a year, has attracted 93 new advertisers, and some have
purchased space in the newspaper as well, Hinton said. Including
online customers, the Journal’s average daily circulation is
2.06 million, according to the Audit Bureau of Circulations.  The Journal began producing the Greater New York section in
April, featuring articles aimed at area metropolitan readers.
Since the section was introduced, single-copy sales, newsstand
sales and advertising have all increased, Hinton said. As a
result of the section, 67 new advertisers have been added.  “It is paying for itself,” Hinton said.  Investors questioned Murdoch’s pursuit of Dow Jones, given
the premium paid even before the financial crisis. News Corp.
said last year it wrote down the value of the Dow Jones assets
by $2.8 billion. The company’s shares have dropped 37 percent
since it made the acquisition bid in May 2007.  Results for Dow Jones aren’t broken out in  New Corp. ’s
financial statements.  China, Japan  Dow Jones executives said in April they were seeking to
draw readers from the New York Times and other local newspapers.
News Corp. also publishes the New York Post. This month, Murdoch
told the Australian Financial Review that the Journal’s Greater
New York section is “sticking it to the New York Times.”  New York Times Co.  Chief Executive Officer  Janet Robinson 
said in September the Times newspaper is experiencing “no
impact” as a result of the Journal’s local section.  The Journal is also introducing local websites in Asia,
according to  Todd Larsen , president of Dow Jones.  “We have a good footprint,” Larsen said, adding the
company is hiring local management and editors for sites in
Japan, China and India. “It’s been a tremendous growth story.”  In China, where a local website was introduced about two
years ago, page views have gone from 2 million a month initially
to about 25 million today, according to Larsen. In Japan, the
Wall Street Journal website is almost one-year-old.  “We’re starting off faster in Japan than we did in
China,” said Larsen, who also took part in the interview. “We
really think there’s a large opportunity to speak to business-
interested consumers in these markets.”  Bloomberg LP, owner of Bloomberg News, competes with Dow
Jones and  News Corp.  in providing financial news and data.  News Corp., based in New York, rose 25 cents, or 1.8
percent, to $14.32 in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The Class A
shares have climbed 4.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom or  pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 