-- Wheat Jumps to Four-Month High, Rice Gains as Weather Threatens to Crops
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-12-02T21:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/wheat-jumps-to-four-month-high-rice-gains-as-weather-threatens-to-crops.html
Wheat rose to the highest price in
almost four months and rice futures gained as wet weather from
Australia to Thailand threatened to curb global grain supplies.  Areas of New South Wales, Australia’s biggest wheat-growing
state, were under flood  warnings  today after the country’s
wettest September-to-November period ever, the government’s
Bureau of Meteorology said. Floods in Thailand, the world’s
largest rice exporter, damaged crops, spurring speculation that
global demand will climb for wheat as a food substitute.  “Weather is the issue,” said  Darrell Holaday , the
president of Advanced Market Concepts in Manhattan, Kansas. “If
Australia wasn’t enough, and if the middle U.S. Plains wasn’t
enough, let’s throw the Thailand rice issues with weather in
there, too.”  Wheat futures for March delivery climbed 8.5 cents, or 1.1
percent, to settle at $7.485 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Earlier, the price reached $7.675, the
highest for a most-active contract since Aug. 9.  The commodity has jumped 56 percent since the end of June
after drought in Russia and floods in Canada cut world output
and dry weather in the U.S. Great Plains threatened winter
crops. Growing areas in western Kansas and Colorado are
experiencing “moderate” to “severe”  drought , data from the
University of Nebraska at Lincoln show.  U.S. export sales in the four weeks ended Nov. 25 more than
doubled from a year earlier, the Department of Agriculture said
today. The dollar dropped as much as 0.8 percent against a
basket of major currencies, improving prospects U.S. shipments.  Dollar ‘Catalyst’  “We got some good export sales, and the dollar stopped
rallying, so that was a little bit of a catalyst” for wheat,
said  J. Mark Kinoff , the president of Ceres Hedge, a risk-
management firm in Chicago.  The U.S. is the world’s largest exporter, followed by
France, Canada and Australia, according to data from the
International Grains Council and FranceAgriMer.  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  Rice futures for January delivery rose 6.5 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $14.44 per 100 pounds. Earlier, the price reached
$14.595, the highest since Nov. 12.  Thailand had the worst floods in five decades, which may
trigger a 7 percent drop in rice production, the Agriculture and
Cooperative Ministry has said. Rice prices may triple in 18
months as supplies dwindle and demand increases, Ed Peter, the
chief executive officer of Duxton Asset Management Pte., said
this week.  The United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization cut its
global rice-production forecast on Nov. 30 for the third time
since April as adverse weather harmed crops in Asia. World
output may drop to 697.9 million tons, or 6.5 million less than
the agency’s June forecast, the organization said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  