-- Wheat-Crop Quality in Australia's Queensland Is Hurt by Rains, Growers Say
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-12-02T09:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/wheat-crop-quality-in-australia-s-queensland-is-hurt-by-rains-growers-say.html
More than half of the wheat crop from
Australia’s Queensland state may deteriorate to feed grade
following heavy rain, tightening milling-quality supplies and
potentially helping to extend a rally in prices.  “There is a lot of downgrading of quality because of the
persistent wet weather,” Wayne Newton, grains president of
Brisbane-based farm group  Agforce , said today. The northern
state may produce 1.6 million metric tons in all this season,
according to a September forecast from the government.  Wheat surged 7.2 percent yesterday on concern that
downgrades and delays to the crop from Australia, the fourth-
largest shipper, may curb supply of high-quality grain. There
was “a little bit of panic” in the market, according to Austin
Damiani, a floor broker at the Minneapolis Grain Exchange.  In Queensland, there’s “a lot of frustration among the
growers,” said Newton, who estimated that “well over 50
percent” of the state’s wheat crop will be cut to feed grade.  Wheat advanced 0.7 percent to $7.45 a bushel on the Chicago
Board of Trade at 5:00 p.m. in Singapore, erasing an early
decline. The price has surged 38 percent this year on tightening
global supplies, including an export ban from Russia following a
drought. Futures peaked this year at $8.68 in August after
Russia announced the ban.  ‘In Short Supply’  High-quality wheat may be “in short supply” in the 2010-
2011 season after rain hurt crops in Australia and Europe, and
dry weather curbed production in Russia, forecaster  Gail Martell 
said yesterday. “Very wet conditions in Australia have bogged
down the harvest while threatening crop quality,” Martell said.  Australia’s wheat production may reach 22.3 million tons
this season, with the three eastern states of Queensland,
New South Wales and Victoria producing a record 14.1 million
tons,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  forecast this week. On
average, 15 percent of the national crop was used for feed in
the five crop years to 2008-2009, according to government data.  Australia had its wettest September-to-November spring on
record this year, according to the  Bureau of Meteorology . In New
South Wales, the largest producing state, as much as 30 percent
of the crop may be downgraded, Peter Matthews, cereals technical
specialist at Industry & Investment NSW, has said.  ‘Badly Affected’  “It is pretty well unprecedented to see the whole eastern
seaboard being really badly affected by wet weather at this time
of year,” Pete Mailler, chairman of Grain Producers Australia,
a national industry group, said by phone today. Half the eastern
states’ crop may be at risk of damage if rain continued, he said.  Harvesting in eastern Australia starts in Queensland and
moves south through New South Wales, Victoria and South
Australia. Less-mature crops in the south are less susceptible
to downgrading, Chris Sounness, grains project manager at
Victoria’s Department of Primary Industries, said yesterday.  The effect of rain on grain in South Australia wouldn’t be
known until volumes started coming into the system,  Viterra Inc. 
Executive Manager Grains  Dean McQueen  said in a statement today.  “While the recent rain is expected to impact on the
quality of South Australia’s crop, the volume is still there,”
he said. Demand for shipping from the company’s ports was also
strong, he said.  The Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics
and Sciences, which in September forecast a crop of 25.1 million
tons, will release its next report on Dec. 7.  Milling wheat for January delivery on the Australian
Securities Exchange surged 11 percent to A$307 ($296) per ton
today. One week ago, on Nov. 25, the contract was at A$254.50.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  