-- Winters Finds Road to Asia's Rising Wealth Runs Through Europe
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2010-12-02T22:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/winters-finds-road-to-asia-s-expanding-consumer-wealth-runs-through-europe.html
David Winters  likes to quote hockey
great Wayne Gretzky, who said the key to success was skating to
where the puck was going to be, not where it had been.  The puck has moved from the U.S. and Europe to the emerging
economies of Asia, Winters said. The manager of a top-performing
mutual fund during both halves of the past decade, Winters says
he is seeking to profit from this “tectonic shift” after
doubling the portion of non-U.S. stocks in his portfolio to
about 70 percent and buying companies that can profit from
Asia’s growth.  “I want my shareholders to have exposure to the parts of
the world where people want everything we have and are willing
to go out and get it,” Winters, who runs the $1.3 billion
 Wintergreen Fund  from Mountain Lakes, New Jersey, said in a
telephone interview.  Investors have poured a  record amount of money  into
emerging-market equity funds this year to try to tap into the
fast-growing economies of Asia and Latin America and their
expanding ranks of consumers with rising incomes. While Asian
stocks can be a vehicle for exploiting that continent’s wealth,
buying European companies with a global reach is often a better
way to achieve the same goal at a discount, according to
Winters.  “When people hear ‘Europe’ they think Ireland and
Greece,”  David Herro , manager of the $6 billion  Oakmark
International Fund,  said in a phone interview, referring to two
countries whose financial woes have required bailouts. “That
gives us a chance to purchase quality at a good price.”  Nestle, Richemont  Herro, who was named Morningstar’s international fund
manager of the decade in January, said Vevey, Switzerland-based
food producer  Nestle SA  and Geneva-based  Compagnie Financiere
Richemont SA,  the world’s largest jewelry maker, have large and
growing businesses in Asia.  Winters owns the same two stocks for the same reason. So
does  Thomas Russo , a partner at Lancaster, Pennsylvania-based
Gardner Russo & Gardner, where he helps manage $3 billion.  “I’m getting meaningful emerging-market presence without
paying emerging-market prices,” Russo said in a telephone
interview. Legal protections for shareholders are also stronger
for firms based in Western countries, he said.  The back-door approach to Asia may not produce the best
results if emerging-market stocks do as well as some forecasters
expect. Emerging-market equities will surge 57 percent in 2011
as economic growth and low interest rates drive valuations
higher, UBS AG analysts wrote in a Nov. 29 report.  Investors willing to tolerate the swings that come with
emerging-market stocks “will go for the pure play in the hope
of getting higher returns,”  Nicholas Smithie , co-author of the
UBS report, said in a telephone interview. Smithie is an
emerging-market strategist at the bank in New York.  Playing the ‘Trifecta’  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  traded at a price-earnings
ratio of 14 on Nov. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
compared with 11 for the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, which tracks the
biggest European equities.  Winters, who owns more European than Asian stocks, said he
doesn’t care where a company is based as long as it can deliver
what he calls the “trifecta:” improving economics, management
that is friendly to shareholders and an attractive price.  Winters, 48, is a disciple of the value investing school
pioneered by Benjamin Graham and David Dodd, whose 1934 book
“Security Analysis” made the case for buying securities
selling at a discount. Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Chairman  Warren Buffett  was a student of Graham at New York’s Columbia
University.  Early Mentors  Winters spent 18 years at Mutual Series, a fund firm
founded by value investor Max Heine. Winters had kept an article
about Heine taped to the wall of his dorm room at Cornell
University in Ithaca, New York, where he earned a bachelor’s
degree in economics.  At Mutual, Winters worked under value investor  Michael Price,  who took over Heine Securities Corp. and then sold it to
Franklin Resources Inc. of San Mateo, California, in 1996 for
more than $600 million. Price is now managing partner of New
York-based MFP Investors LLC.  Winters oversaw the  Mutual Discovery Fund  from 2000 to 2005
and outperformed 95 percent of rivals in the world stock
category, according to data from Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.
His successor fund, started in September 2005, returned 6.9
percent a year for the five years ended Dec. 1, also better than
95 percent of peers. Wintergreen has climbed 17 percent in 2010.  “We feel we are getting that good Ben Graham, Warren
Buffett-type approach with him,” said Aron Huddleston, co-
portfolio manager of the $162 million Lifetime Achievement Fund
in Omaha, Nebraska, which owns shares in Wintergreen.  ‘Cigar Butts’  Winters said he has evolved as an investor. In the early
days, he bought what Graham called “cigar butts,” broken-down
companies that might have a puff or two of life left.  Now he buys higher-quality stocks he holds for years. Some
investments, including  Jardine Matheson Holdings Ltd ., a Hong
Kong-based company, have been in his portfolio since he opened
Wintergreen, according to filings with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Wintergreen’s turnover ratio -- a measure of how much the
portfolio changes in a year -- is 11 percent, compared with the
96 percent average for all equity funds, according to
Morningstar.  Buying firms with solid brands and financial strength is a
better way to build wealth, and in the current market offers a
chance to pick up bargains, Winters said.  “These days you can buy a Porsche for a used-car price,”
he said.  Stable Bargains  Jeremy Grantham , chief investment strategist at Grantham,
Mayo, Van Otterloo & Co. in Boston, said in his quarterly
newsletters that companies with stable earnings and low debt are
the best values in today’s market because they’ve been out of
favor so long.  Winters has also changed as a global tactician. When he
opened Wintergreen, the fund put about 35 percent of its assets
in non-U.S. firms.  In the past few years, the U.S. “borrowed too much money
and will take time to work through those problems,” he said.
Asian countries learned lessons from the financial crisis of the
late 1990s and boast stronger balance sheets than their Western
counterparts, he said.  The U.S. economy will expand 2.5 percent in 2011, compared
with 9 percent for China and 8.6 percent for India, according to
the average forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  By investing outside the U.S., Winters will also be less
tied to the dollar, which he said could lose value as a result
of the country’s debt burden.  Streams of Cash  “We like to get streams of cash in multiple currencies,”
he said.  Investors contributed $84.3 billion to emerging-market
stock funds this year through Nov. 24, beating the old record of
$83.3 billion added in 2009, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR Global.  Jardine Matheson Holdings Ltd., Winters’s largest position
as of June 30, owns car distributors, real estate, supermarkets
and hotels in Asia. The Hong Kong-based firm was founded in 1832
by two Scottish traders and sent tea back to England two years
later, according to its website.  Over the past 20 years, Jardine shares have returned an
average of 17 percent annually, compared with 16 percent for
Berkshire Hathaway, Winters’s second-largest holding.  Swatch Group AG , the world’s largest watchmaker, is
benefiting from the rise of emerging economies. The portion of
the Biel, Switzerland-based firm’s sales from Asia climbed to 44
percent last year from 32 percent in 2003, Bloomberg data show.  Winters admires the consistency of the watch industry.  No New Gizmos  “We like businesses that involve simple repeat human
behavior,” he said. “It means the company doesn’t have to come
up with a new gizmo every six months.”  Watches appeal to men and women alike, and human adornment
isn’t about to go out of style, Winters said. Swatch’s brands
include Omega and Breguet as well as the namesake line.  “In emerging countries, when people finally get enough
money to start purchasing products, the first things they buy
are brands that are associated with the affluent,” said Russo,
who owns a small position in Swatch.  Swatch, Winters’s third-largest holding, has gained about
60 percent this year.  When Winters spoke to a business school class in March, he
handed out Nestle chocolate bars to the students.  “Kids in the future will still like them,” he told the
class at the Richard Ivey School of Business at the University
of Western Ontario in London, Ontario.  Pricing Power  Over the decades, the price of the bars has increased from
about 20 cents to $2 even as their size has shrunk, Winters
said.  “We love their pricing power,” he said of Nestle, whose
shares gained 11 percent this year.  Nestle’s emerging-market sales grew 11 percent in the first
nine months, compared with 6.1 percent for overall revenue, the
company reported in October.  Schindler Holding AG , the world’s second-largest elevator
maker, is another of Winters’s European stocks with an Asian
presence. The Hergiswil, Switzerland-based company said in
August that it was providing 157 escalators for Beijing’s subway
and 124 for a Chinese shopping mall. The company forecast strong
markets in China and India for the second half.  Winters called Schindler a play on urbanization in China
and the rest of Asia.  “It’s a great business today,” he said. “It has the
potential to be an even better business tomorrow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  