-- Two Killed After Police Open Fire at Protest by Students in Sudan's Darfur
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-12-02T08:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/two-killed-after-police-open-fire-at-protest-by-students-in-sudan-s-darfur.html
Two people were killed and nine
injured yesterday when police opened fire during a student
protest in Sudan’s western region of Darfur.  Students protested as mediators in the Darfur peace process
were meeting with civil society representatives at Zelengi
University, in West Darfur state, police said in a statement on
the Ministry of Interior’s website. The delegation was led by
Qatari State Minister for Foreign Affairs  Ahmed bin Abdullah Al- Mahmoud  and the African Union and United Nations’ chief
mediator,  Djibril Bassole .  The students threw rocks at police “which caused the force
to open fire in the air in an attempt to control the
situation,” resulting in the death of a student, police said. A
trader later died from gunshot injuries. Three policemen were
injured, they said.  Sudan’s two main rebel groups, the Sudan Liberation
Movement faction and the Justice and Equality Movement, have
halted peace talks with the Sudanese government. They accuse the
government of violating previous  agreements  and demand that
armed pro-government militias be disarmed.  The UN and AU peacekeeping mission in Darfur said yesterday
that at least one person was killed when gunfire broke out.  Sudan’s army has been fighting rebels in Darfur since 2003,
when insurgents took up arms, accusing the government of
neglecting the region.  The conflict has led to the death of as many as 300,000
people, mainly due to illness and starvation, and forced about
2.7 million people to flee their homes, according to UN
estimates. The Sudanese government has put the death toll at
about 10,000.  The International Criminal Court has issued arrest warrants
for Sudanese President  Umar al-Bashir , accusing him of
responsibility for genocide and war crimes in Darfur. He denies
the charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 