-- World Cup Boost Drives Best Steel Bond Rally in Five Months: Russia Credit
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-12-03T16:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/world-cup-boost-drives-best-steel-bond-rally-in-five-months-russia-credit.html
Russia’s winning bid to host soccer’s
2018 World Cup is driving the biggest bond rally in five months
for its largest steelmakers as the government prepares to spend
at least $9.6 billion on stadiums and expand airports and roads.  The yield on dollar bonds due in 2013 from  OAO Severstal ,
Russia’s largest steelmaker, fell 7 basis points to 5.217
percent, adding to yesterday’s 26 basis point decline, the
biggest drop since July, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Advances for  Evraz Group SA , the country’s second-
biggest steelmaker, pushed the yield on its 2015 dollar bonds to
the largest three-day drop since May.  Russian borrowing costs relative to U.S. Treasuries fell
and the benchmark Micex stock index climbed to the highest level
since July 2008 after soccer’s governing body FIFA awarded the
world’s most-watched sporting tournament to the country. The
World Cup may be responsible for half of a percentage point of
gross domestic product growth for South Africa, this year’s
hosts, Finance Minister Gordhan Pravin said in July.  “The World Cup will be very supportive of the bonds of
steel names, construction and transportation companies, which
will play out over the next three months,” said  Vladimir Gersamia , who helps manage more than $2 billion at Threadneedle
Asset Management in London. “The victory will lead to a huge
number of orders that has been lacking domestically.”  13 Stadiums  Russia beat a challenge from England and joint bids from
Belgium and the Netherlands, and Portugal and Spain. Its winning
bid commits Russia to build 13 stadiums and renovate three more.
The government will make “major upgrades and capacity
increases” at most airports serving the 13 proposed host
cities, including Sochi, home of the 2014 Winter Olympics,
according FIFA’s website. Russia’s victory marks the third
consecutive hosting in an emerging market after South Africa
this year and Brazil in 2014.  The country will spend 300 billion rubles ($9.6 billion) to
build the stadiums for the tournament, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said late yesterday after flying to Zurich to meet with
 Sepp Blatter , president of FIFA, or the Federation
Internationale de Football Association, soccer’s world governing
body,  The total cost may be as much as $500 billion and cause
government borrowing to surge to 15 percent of gross domestic
product from 11 percent over the next three to four years,
according to  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib Financial
Corp.  “It’s a boost for Russian equities, bonds and the Russian
investment case,” Weafer said in a phone interview from London.
“The news is very good for steel names, transport and
construction companies as it sets down a specific six-year
timeline for Russia to complete its infrastructure program.”  The program will push Russia to increase joint initiatives
with companies through so-called Public Private Partnerships and
attract more foreign direct investment, Weafer said.  ‘Look at Greeks’  The expenditure risks causing “high indebtedness” should
the government add to its existing program for infrastructure
projects in the next five years, said  Luis Costa , an emerging-
market debt strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London.  “Look at the Greeks, the fact they hosted the Olympics
boosted their indebtedness, there was a huge chunk of debt from
the Olympics,” Costa said in a phone interview yesterday.  The ruble strengthened 0.6 percent to 31.2900 per dollar in
Moscow trading, posting it biggest daily gain since Nov. 18.
Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge against currency
movements, show the ruble at 31.4558 per dollar in three months.  The price of the country’s ruble notes due in August 2016
rose, leaving the yield 1 basis points lower at 7.32 percent.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps was little changed at 156
basis points, down from this year’s peak of 217, according to
data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost 18 basis points more than contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 7 basis points to 215 today,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Indexes. The
difference compares with 140 for debt of similarly rated Mexico
and 175 for Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by
Moody’s.  The so-called  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 28 basis
points below the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-
month high of 105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  ‘Drop in Ocean’  “The benefits of hosting the World Cup is a perception
issue rather than reality,”  Kingsmill Bond , chief strategist at
Troika Dialog, said by phone from London. The spending is a
“drop in the ocean” by comparison to Russia’s $1.2 trillion
economy, he said.  The win may help Russia’s stock indexes outperform other
emerging markets by as much as 10 percent in the next three
months, analysts at VTB Capital, the investment banking arm of
Russia’s second-biggest lender, wrote in an e-mailed report
today. The Micex has climbed 20 percent this year compared with
a 13 percent advance for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Shares of Cherepovets-based Severstal and OAO Novolipetsk
Steel, Russia’s largest steelmaker by market value, jumped more
than 3 percent today, adding to yesterday’s gains of 4.6 percent
and 4.9 percent.  The yield on Lipetsk-based Novolipetsk’s 2013 ruble bonds
fel1 21 basis points yesterday, the most since Nov. 11,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  