-- World Cup Bidders Make Final Attempt to Sway Vote of Soccer's Ruling Body
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-12-02T12:17:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/world-cup-bidders-make-final-attempt-to-sway-vote-of-soccer-s-ruling-body.html
Countries looking to host the 2018
and 2022 World Cups made their final attempts to convince
soccer’s governing body to award them the world’s most-watched
sporting event when it votes today.  England is using ex-national team captain  David Beckham  and
Prince William to back its bid for 2018, while Russian Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  decided it was best to stay away. The
U.S., going for 2022, featured ex-President  Bill Clinton  and
actor  Morgan Freeman , while Australia flew in model  Elle Macpherson .  The 2018 bidders, England, Russia, and joint offers from
Spain-Portugal and Holland-Belgium, made last presentations to
FIFA today, a day after the 2022 candidates, the U.S., Qatar,
Australia, South Korea and Japan. Hosting the tournament is
worth about $5 billion, according to American estimates. While
celebrities and politicians are trying to win support on the 22-
man voting panel, being a second choice may be as important,
U.K. Sports Minister  Hugh Robertson  said.  “It’s much easier to persuade people” to make a bid their
second or third choice, Robertson said. “If you get your
lobbying right over the three days beforehand, and you get your
presentation right, then you have a genuine chance of moving
those second and third preference votes. That’s going to be the
key to winning.”  Russia, England, Qatar Favored  The panel is now meeting to vote and will eliminate the
lowest contender in each contest until there’s a bid with a
majority. The winners will be announced around 4 p.m. local time
at FIFA headquarters in Zurich.  According to U.K. bookmaker  William Hill Plc , England has
drawn even with Russia as favorites for 2018, at odds of 6-5,
followed by Portugal-Spain at 4-1 and Holland-Belgium at 40-1.
That means a successful $5 bet on Russia or England would bring
in $6 plus the original stake.  “Almost all of the bets staked on Wednesday -- over 90
percent of them -- were for England,” Hill’s  Graham Sharpe 
said.  For 2022, Qatar is favored, at 4-6, with the U.S. and
Australia both on odds of 5-2. Japan is 33-1 at William Hill,
and South Korea is 40-1.  Sebastian Coe , who sits on England’s board, was in charge
of London’s efforts to secure the 2012 Olympics. He said the
city was considered an outsider before then-Prime Minister  Tony Blair  and Beckham won over the International Olympic Committee
in Singapore in 2005. Prince William and the former Manchester
United player can do the same in Switzerland, he said.  ‘Emotional Appeal’  “I think it can happen here,” Coe told reporters. “A
really strong presentation with really clear messages and some
emotional appeal can make a difference.”  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron, Beckham and Prince
William led England’s presentation hours after finishing late-
night talks with several FIFA voters.  Cameron said the U.K. would launch a soccer development
fund that would match FIFA’s $150 million a year spend and
benefit a billion people around the world.  “Each of you has the chance to create opportunities in
each of your countries, in every confederation, in every corner
of the world,” Beckham told the voters.  The Emir of Qatar and the prime ministers of South Korea,
Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands and Belgium have also flown to
Zurich to push their country’s bids.  Corruption Probe  While Putin hasn’t attended the vote, his deputy Igor
Shuvalov said Russia deserved to host the tournament, adding
that it would “help us overcome all the tragic days and tragic
history of the last century we have suffered.”  The decision about where to take the event has been marred
by a corruption probe that led to the suspension of two voters
and allegations of rule-breaching vote-sharing agreements. The
Times of London and the British Broadcasting Corp. featured
stories on alleged misdeeds by voters, and Russia’s Putin said
the committee is being ‘smeared.’’  “There is an attempt to discredit them,” Putin said
yesterday. ‘Such methods of competing are unacceptable.’’  Today Angel Maria Villar Llona, head of Spain’s soccer
federation, told colleagues on FIFA’s executive committee they
were victims of media “slander.”  “You’ve already heard enough slander in the media. This
bidding process is clean, regardless of what they say. We hoped
you liked our bid proposals,” he said in closing remarks for
his nation’s joint bid with Portugal.  Clinton in Talks  Clinton, who concluded the U.S.’s final presentation
yesterday, held individual meetings with several bidders at a
suite in the city center hotel where some FIFA officials are
staying.  Chuck Blazer , the U.S. soccer official on the committee,
said the final days and hours of lobbying by world leaders can
be crucial. He’s backing his country for 2022 but hasn’t
revealed his vote for 2018.  “For most people who’ve already made their case, they want
to make sure they don’t do anything wrong, and at the same time
you want to solidify and enhance the positions you already made
and to convince those you haven’t been able to convince
before,” Blazer said in an interview. “That puts an awful lot
of importance in that week, doesn’t it?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Zurich at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  