-- Yen Trades Near One-Week Low Versus Euro as Stock Gains Spur Risk Demand
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-12-02T23:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/yen-trades-near-one-week-low-versus-euro-as-stock-gains-spur-risk-demand.html
The yen traded near its lowest in
almost a week against the euro on speculation Asian stocks will
rise on signs the global economic recovery is picking up,
boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  Japan’s currency was near a two-month low against the
dollar before reports today that may show European retail sales
rebounded and U.S. payrolls gained. The euro trimmed its weekly
loss after the European Central Bank bought more government
bonds to prevent a regional debt crisis from spreading.  “Economies, especially in the U.S., seem to be
improving,” said  Marito Ueda , senior marketing director at FX
Prime Corp., a foreign-exchange margin company in Tokyo. “Risk-
seeking sentiment may be firm and the yen may be sold.”  The yen traded at 110.72 per euro as of 8:33 a.m. in Tokyo
from 110.73 in New York yesterday, when it touched 111.19, the
lowest level since Nov. 29. It bought 83.83 per dollar from
83.82, after reaching 84.41 on Nov. 29, the lowest since Sept.
27. The euro fetched $1.3214 from $1.3209 and was poised for a
0.2 percent loss this week.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific excluding Japan Index of shares
gained 0.2 percent after the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index rose
1.3 percent yesterday.  Retail sales in the 16-nation euro area rose 0.2 percent in
October from September, when they slipped a revised 0.1 percent,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
European Union’s data today. U.S. employers added 150,000
workers last month after a 151,000 gain in October, a separate
Bloomberg survey showed before the Labor Department report today.  China’s Economy  China’s  manufacturing  grew at a faster pace for a fourth
straight month in November. The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose
to 55.2 from 54.7 in October, China’s logistics federation said
this week. The China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing will
release today its report on the nation’s non-manufacturing
industries for November.  The European Central Bank bought Irish and Portuguese
government bonds yesterday, according to three traders with
knowledge of the transactions. The ECB also purchased Greek debt,
said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because
the deals are confidential. An ECB spokesman in Frankfurt
declined to comment.  The ECB kept its benchmark interest rate at a record low of
1 percent at the monthly policy meeting yesterday and extended
an emergency loan program to combat “acute” market tensions.
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said the bond-buying program is
ongoing while he refrained from announcing new measures to curb
the debt crisis. Trichet declined to say whether the central
bank stepped up purchases yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Tokyo at   rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 