-- Yuan Withstands Europe Debt Crisis With Biggest Asian Gain: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-02T07:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/yuan-withstands-europe-debt-crisis-with-biggest-gain-in-asia-china-credit.html
China’s yuan is climbing the most in
Asia as investors from UOB Asset Management Ltd. to Union
Investment predict the world’s biggest foreign reserves will
help the currency withstand the spreading debt crisis in Europe
and tensions on the Korean peninsula.  The yuan rose 0.6 percent against the U.S. dollar in the
past month, while the South Korean won slumped 2.8 percent.
China’s currency was the second-best performer among 25 emerging
markets after the Chilean peso, which gained 0.8 percent.  The yuan will advance 6.6 percent by the end of next year,
the biggest appreciation in the so-called BRIC nations of Brazil,
Russia, India and China, according to the median forecasts of
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg. The 5 billion yuan ($750
million) sale of Chinese government bonds in Hong Kong this week
was 10 times oversubscribed, reflecting growing global demand
for the currency. Deposits of renminbi in Hong Kong jumped 45
percent in October to a record 217 billion yuan, the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority said Nov. 30.  “The renminbi has a very stable appreciating trend,” said
 Chia Tse Chern , director for fixed-income in Singapore at UOB
Asset Management who helps oversee $10.6 billion and is
interested in buying yuan debt in Hong Kong. “The Chinese are
comfortable for the renminbi to appreciate 4 percent to 5
percent every year against the U.S. dollar.”  Broad Rally  The yuan, which was little changed at 6.6640 per dollar as
of 2:56 p.m. in Shanghai, has strengthened 2.4 percent since a
two-year dollar peg ended on June 19. A trade-weighted index for
the yuan, the  JPMorgan Nominal Broad Effective Exchange Rate ,
climbed 2.2 percent in November, the biggest gain since February
2009. The yuan, a denomination of the renminbi, climbed 6.4
percent against the euro, 3.7 percent versus the yen and 2.6
percent to the British pound.  The Chinese currency will appreciate to 6.25 per dollar by
the end of 2011, compared with 5.5 percent gains for India’s
rupee and the Russian ruble, and a 0.8 percent decline for
Brazil’s real, according to the median estimates of analysts in
Bloomberg surveys. China has $2.65 trillion of currency reserves,
the world’s biggest.  China’s Ministry of Finance sold debt in Hong Kong on Nov.
30 with maturities of three, five and 10 years. The longer-
maturity notes were sold with a 2.48 percent coupon, compared
with a yield of 4 percent for similar-maturity bonds traded in
Shanghai that day. The yield on onshore September 2020 debt was
unchanged at 4 percent yesterday.  Yield Gap  The difference in  yield  investors demand to own bonds sold
by China instead of U.S. Treasuries widened 60 basis points, or
0.60 percentage point, last month to 150, the highest level
since May 2009, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
Index.  Investors took money from emerging-market bond funds in the
week ended Nov. 24, snapping a 25-week run of net inflows,
according to EPFR Global data released on Nov. 30. Funds focused
on developing nations’ debt attracted $51.8 billion this year as
of Nov. 17, exceeding annual tallies in EPFR data going back to
1995.  Appetite for higher-yield debt cooled as Ireland joined
Greece in the past week in accepting a European Union-led
bailout and North Korea fired an artillery barrage at a South
Korean island, killing four people and prompting retaliatory
action.  China’s central bank is seeking to limit asset bubbles
caused by an influx of capital into the world’s second-biggest
economy. Policy makers raised lenders’ reserve requirements for
the fifth time this year on Nov. 19, a month after increasing
its benchmark interest rate for the first time since 2007.  Manufacturers’ Pain  China will go slow in letting its currency appreciate to
protect small companies that compete in the world market,
according to  Ivan Leung , chief investment strategist in Hong
Kong at JPMorgan Private Bank, which oversees $600 billion in
assets.  “A lot of Chinese manufacturers are still on the lower-
value end, where the margin is extremely tight,” Leung said.
“There are a lot of companies facing wage gains and labor
shortages, so they are already having difficulties to make ends
meet. If you allow the currency to rise too quickly, you will
force a lot of companies out of business.”  Chinese manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in seven
months in November, the nation’s logistics federation said
yesterday, signaling the central bank may further tighten
monetary policy. The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 55.2
from 54.7 in October.  Growth Outperformance  Emerging-market economies are forecast to grow 7.1 percent
this year, with China expanding 10.5 percent after gross
domestic product increased 9.1 percent in 2009, according to
International Monetary Fund estimates released on Oct. 6. China
posted a larger-than-forecast $27 billion trade surplus in
October.  “The  trade  and current-account surplus issue of China as
well as the gradual tightening path of Chinese monetary policy
are the dominating forces behind the gradual appreciation
theme,” said  Sergey Dergachev , who helps manage the equivalent
of $8.5 billion of emerging-market debt at Union Investment in
Frankfurt. He expects the yuan to advance 3 percent next year.  The yuan benefited last month while investors shunned
riskier assets, said  Isaac Meng , an economist at BNP Paribas SA
in Beijing, who predicts a gain of as much as 5 percent next
year.  “Compared with other Asian currencies, such as the South
Korean won, there is less volatility in the yuan’s exchange
rate,” he said.  Less Volatility  One-month implied volatility, a measure of foreign-exchange
swings used to price options, was at 4.1 percent for the yuan,
compared with 14.9 percent for South Korea’s won and 9.6 percent
for the Indian rupee.  The annual cost of insuring China’s foreign-currency debt
for five years using credit-default swaps reached 67 basis
points, 36 basis points less than this year’s high of 103 points
on May 25, according to CMA prices. The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should the government fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  “The structural trend is the appreciation of the renminbi
because of the huge reserves accumulation,”  Anthony Chan , the
Asia sovereign strategist in Hong Kong at AllianceBernstein L.P,
which oversees $499 billion globally, said in an interview
yesterday. “Whereas others, like the Korean currency are
particularly sensitive to the risk-on, risk-off trade
globally.”  -- Lilian Karunungan ,  Judy Chen . Editors:  Sandy Hendry , Simon
Harvey  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at +65-6212-1115 or
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 