-- Zimbabwean Newborn Babies Die in Homeless Camp, Amnesty International Says
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2010-12-02T11:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/zimbabwean-newborn-babies-die-in-homeless-camp-amnesty-international-says.html
At least 21 newborn babies died in a
five-month period at a settlement outside Zimbabwe’s capital for
people made homeless by a slum-clearing exercise by the
government in 2005, Amnesty International said.  The London-based rights group urged the government to
investigate the deaths, which occurred at Hopely Farm, about 10
kilometers (6 miles) south of Harare, according to a  statement 
posted on Amnesty International’s website. Many of the mothers,
who live in shacks, believed their babies died because of a lack
of health care and cold temperatures, Amnesty said.  “When people were settled in Hopley, the government
promised them a better life but things have gone from bad to
worse,” Michelle Kagari, Amnesty International’s deputy Africa
director, said in the statement.  About 700,000 people were left homeless, the United Nations
said in 2005, when President  Robert Mugabe ’s government carried
out Operation Murambatsvina, which means “no tolerance for dirt”
in the Shona language. The authorities said the operation was
aimed at curbing crime and disease in city slums.  Many women in Hopley, which has about 5,000 residents,
can’t afford the $50 the government demands for antenatal care
because they lost their livelihoods when their homes and market
places were destroyed, Amnesty said. The nearest maternity
clinic is 8 kilometers away, it said.  Zimbabwe’s health ministry didn’t answer calls today
seeking comment.  “The victims of Operation Murambatsvina have been forgotten
by the government and, five years after losing their homes and
livelihoods, their situation continues to deteriorate,” Kagari
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Latham  in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 