-- Zurich Financial Plans to Cut Costs by $500 Million Over Next Three Years
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2010-12-02T09:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-02/zurich-financial-plans-to-cut-costs-by-500-million-over-next-three-years.html
Zurich Financial Services AG ,
Switzerland’s largest insurer, plans to cut costs by $500
million over the next three years with more than two-thirds of
the savings coming from its non-life business.  Zurich doesn’t expect “mass layoffs” as part of the cost
cuts, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Senn  said on a conference
call from Zurich today. He didn’t give further details.  General insurance head  Mario Greco  is seeking to boost
earnings at the Zurich-based company’s biggest business after
operating profit declined 22 percent to $1.96 billion in the
first nine months of this year. Greco, appointed seven months
ago amid price wars in the U.K., Italy and Germany, is
explaining his strategy to investors in Zurich today.  Zurich Financial wants to improve its combined ratio, a key
measure of profitability in general insurance that shows
spending on claims and costs as a percentage of premiums, by 3
to 4 percentage points. General insurance contributed 62 percent
to the insurer’s profit last year.  “The 3 to 4 percent combined ratio improvement against
peers by 2012 is a challenge,”  Stefan Schuermann , a Zurich-
based analyst with Vontobel Holding AG, said in a note to
investors. The $350 million of targeted costs cuts at the
general insurance unit will be a “good contribution,” he said.  Zurich Financial rose 1.6 percent to 234.6 Swiss francs as
of 10:28 p.m. local time, valuing the company at 34.3 billion
francs ($34.3 billion). The stock has gained 3.6 percent this
year.  Generating Cash  Martin Senn , who took over from  James Schiro  in January,
has reshuffled his executive team.  Patrick Manley  takes over as
chief executive officer of the European general insurance
business in January, replacing Annette Court, who left by
“mutual agreement” earlier this year as the insurer announced
its strategic review.  “Zurich is well positioned to outperform in a challenging
environment,” the company said today in an e-mailed statement.
“Our ability to generate cash is strong, supporting our policy
to pay a sustainable and attractive dividend.”  The company reiterated its return-on-equity target of 16
percent. Zurich Financial said it will also accelerate the
release of $1.5 billion of capital from non-core businesses by
2015.  The insurer wants to increase the contribution of new
business value from Asia, the Middle East and Latin America to
30 percent of the life insurance total by 2013 from the current
15 percent to 20 percent.  Zurich expects “no material effect” from the European
debt crisis. The insurer held about $12.4 billion of government
debt from Spain, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Belgium at the end
of September, according to a presentation on the website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  