-- Macarthur Coal Raises Its Full-Year Profit Forecast on Increased Revenue
-- Jason Scott
-- 2010-07-06T01:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/macarthur-coal-raises-its-full-year-profit-forecast-on-increased-sales.html

          
          
             Macarthur Coal Ltd. , the world’s
largest producer of pulverized coal used by steelmakers, raised
its full-year profit forecast as sales increased, bolstering
speculation the company may be a takeover target.  
 Profit, excluding accounting adjustments, may be between
A$115 million ($96 million) and A$125 million for the 12 months
ended June 30, compared with its earlier forecast of A$103
million to A$113 million, Macarthur said today in a statement.  
 The Brisbane-based company rose 5.2 percent yesterday after
Thailand’s Banpu Pcl agreed to buy the rest of Centennial Coal
Co. for A$2 billion. Shares of Riversdale Mining Ltd. and
Whitehaven Coal Ltd. also gained after the bid.  
 “The big question will be whether or not this upgrade and
yesterday’s merger and acquisition news reignites interest from
potential suitors,”  Ben Potter , a strategist with IG Markets,
said today in an e-mailed statement. [bn:WBTKR=MCC:AU]   
 Macarthur, which this year rejected takeover offers from
Peabody Energy Corp. and New Hope Corp., rose  []1.3 percent to
A$12.92 a share at 10:39 a.m. in Sydney on the Australian stock
exchange, compared with a 0.5 percent drop in the benchmark
index. Centennial and Coal & Allied Industries Ltd. also gained.  
 “Our operations have remained focused on coal delivery and,
with the Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal achieving record throughput
in June, we were able to load some shipments sooner than
expected,” Macarthur Chief Executive Officer  Nicole Hollows 
said in the statement.  
 Mining Deal  
 Forecast profit will be lower than last year’s A$168.6
million because of lower coal prices, the company said.  
 Mining companies reached agreement last week with Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  on the new minerals resources rent tax,
which included concessions they had sought. This ended a dispute
that cost her predecessor  Kevin Rudd  his job.  
 The Centennial deal has rekindled corporate interest in the
coal sector, UBS AG said yesterday in a report. Macarthur said
in May that a A$3.8 billion takeover offer from Peabody was too
low, a month after it rejected an offer from New Hope.  
 “If Peabody thought Macarthur was worth A$15 per share
under the now defunct resource super profit tax, one would think
it offers more value under the new mineral resources rental
tax,” IB Markets’ Potter said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        