-- Acom Leads Consumer Lenders Higher on Report Osaka May Loosen Regulation
-- Takako Taniguchi
-- 2010-07-05T08:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/acom-leads-consumer-lenders-higher-on-report-osaka-may-loosen-regulation.html

          
          
             Acom Co.  led a surge in Japanese
consumer lender stocks after the Mainichi newspaper reported
that the Osaka government will seek to start a business zone
with looser lending rules than national laws.  
 Shares of Acom jumped by the daily limit of 300 yen, or 26
percent, to 1,444 yen at the 3 p.m. close of trading in Tokyo.
Promise Co. rose 100 yen, its daily limit, or 17 percent. Aiful
Corp. gained 24 percent and  Takefuji Corp.  climbed 18 percent.
The  Topix  index of non-bank lenders rose 4.7 percent.  
 Acom, Promise and  Aiful , Japan’s three largest consumer
lenders by assets, are slashing jobs and closing branches to
cope with rules from June 18 that cap interest rates and loan
volumes. The lenders are cutting loans and battling to survive
after a 2006 crackdown on coercive lending practices and court
rulings that forced them to repay billions of dollars in
overcharged interest.  
 “There has been a barrage of negative news for consumer
lenders of late, so stocks are now jumping on news of something
positive,” said Junichi Shimizu, a credit analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG in Tokyo. “It’s unclear whether such a zone is
possible.”  
 Relief Proposal  
 Osaka is in the final stages of a proposal to the Japanese
government to allow the municipality to override the nation’s
lending rules introduced in June, the Mainichi newspaper
reported on July 3. Lenders based in Osaka may be allowed to
exceed existing interest rate caps of 20 percent and loan limits
to borrowers in Osaka, the newspaper said.  
 Motoyuki Yufu , a spokesman at Japan’s Financial Services
Agency declined to comment on the report. The Osaka prefectural
government intends to announce the plan tomorrow, Yumi Fujiwara,
a spokeswoman for Osaka, said without giving additional details.  
 Acom, a unit of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., had
its credit rating in June cut to the lowest investment grade
level by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited concern the
consumer lender business model may no longer be profitable.
Promise, Aiful and Takefuji’s credit ratings have had their
credit ratings cut to junk by Moody’s.  
 “The change in lending legislation is having a big impact
on people with funding needs,” said  Takashi Kiribuchi , a
spokesman for Acom. “We hope that discussions toward relaxing
lending rules will accelerate.”  
 The lending rules cap rates at 20 percent and borrowing to
one-third of a person’s annual income took effect on June 18.
The country’s top four consumer lenders, face losses of 503
billion yen during the next two years, according to estimates
from Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 The lenders have racked up combined losses of 2.3 trillion
yen since April 2006, after the courts and governments started
imposing tougher regulations.  
 For Related News and Information:
Analyst ratings of Aiful: 8515 JT <Equity> ANR <GO>
Link to Company News:8515 JP <Equity> CN <GO>
Earnings History 8515 JT <Equity> CH1 <GO>
Aiful Total Return Analysis 8515 JT <Equity> TRA <GO>  
          
          


  


        