-- AIG Plane-Leasing Unit In Talks to Buy First Jets Since 2007
-- Susanna Ray
-- 2010-07-05T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/aig-plane-leasing-unit-in-talks-to-buy-first-jets-since-2007-after-bailout.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc. ’s
plane-leasing business is in talks to buy jets for the first
time since 2007 as it seeks to expand after the insurer’s U.S.
bailout, the unit’s new chief executive officer said.  
 International Lease Finance Corp.  “is doing extremely
well, and we see a continued improvement trend in our ability to
engage financing parties,” CEO  Henri Courpron  said in an
interview. “I’m not worried about the outlook for ILFC.”  
 Courpron said he wasn’t considering selling “large
portions” of Los Angeles-based  ILFC ’s portfolio and that an
order for 10  Airbus SAS  A380 superjumbo jets was “under
review.” He also wouldn’t rule out announcing a new order as
soon as England’s Farnborough air show, which begins July 19.  
 ILFC last ordered planes in October 2007. A year later, the
government took over AIG to avert bankruptcy with a rescue that
swelled to $182.3 billion. Shut out of capital markets for more
than a year, ILFC had to be propped up by AIG and sold 53 planes
to  Macquarie Aerospace Ltd.  for $2 billion in April.  
 “We still have a $13 billion portfolio” on order, Courpron
said in the July 2 interview. “We have plenty of planes on
order coming down the pike and we have engaged some fairly
focused exchanges with the original-equipment makers to possibly
complement that.”  
 Boeing and Airbus weren’t the only planemakers ILFC is
talking to, he said.  
 Boeing, Airbus  
 He wouldn’t give details on the timing or size of a new
order. Airbus spokesman Justin Dubon says the planemaker talks
to all potential purchasers and doesn’t comment on specific
deals. Thomas Brabant of Chicago-based  Boeing Co.  declined to
comment on any discussions with ILFC, the largest customer for
both planemakers.  
 Courpron succeeded interim CEO  Alan Lund , who took the job
after  John Plueger  left to join ILFC founder  Steven Udvar-Hazy 
in starting a new leasing business. Udvar-Hazy founded ILFC in
1973, built it into the world’s biggest jet-leasing company and
sold it to AIG in 1990 before leaving this year. ILFC owns more
than 900 planes, according to a regulatory filing.  
 In appointing Courpron on May 19, AIG CEO  Robert H. Benmosche  said ILFC was “ready to begin growing.” Three weeks
later, the Congressional Oversight Panel in AIG’s bailout said
the unit was among the New York-based insurer’s “depreciating
assets.” The panel said ILFC would have to keep selling planes
until a buyer for the business is found.  
 “We are not currently contemplating selling large portions
of our portfolio, but we will continue to sell aircraft
opportunistically as part of a healthy portfolio management,”
Courpron said last week, while declining to comment on Warren’s
assessment.  
 ILFC regained access to outside funding earlier this year
after AIG committed to backing the unit. In May, AIG decided not
to extend its support commitment past February 2011.  
 Rating Affirmed  
 Citing “significant progress” in debt maturities from
aircraft sales and financing, Standard & Poor’s took ILFC off
CreditWatch on June 9. S&P affirmed ILFC’s  rating of BBB- , the
lowest investment grade, with a negative outlook because of
“remaining uncertainties” around debt due in 2012 and 2013.  
 That report helped improve investors’ perception of the
riskiness of ILFC’s bonds, with  credit-default swaps  used to
hedge against losses on the company’s debt declining to 651.5
basis points on July 2 from 804.9 basis points on June 9,
according to CMA DataVision.  
 ILFC’s review of its A380 order from Airbus means Courpron
is in discussions with the Toulouse, France-based planemaker
where he spent two decades before becoming a president at
aviation adviser Seabury Group. He joined ILFC from Seabury.  
 A380 Order  
 Courpron wouldn’t give details about the talks with Airbus
on ILFC’s order, which calls for the first A380  delivery  in the
second quarter of 2014. Airbus has had only one new airline
customer sign up for the jet since commercial operations began
in 2007.  
 “We’re discussing it with Airbus, and we’re discussing it
with potential clients and reviewing the situation internally,”
he said. “There’s no urgency because of the way our contract is
with Airbus; it’s not imminent and it’s not a priority.”  
 Courpron said ILFC arranged more than 50 commitments for
plane leases in 2010’s first six months. That included planes
coming off lease, aircraft released by airlines and new jets
arriving from manufacturers.  
 “Lease rates are holding up nicely,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     "International Lease Finance Corp. is doing extremely well, and we see a continued improvement trend in our ability to engage financing parties,” CEO Henri Courpron said. Photographer: Andrew Wheeler/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
