-- Thailand's Biggest Money Manager to Start $247 Million Indian Bond Fund
-- Anuchit Nguyen
-- 2010-07-05T05:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/thailand-s-biggest-money-manager-to-start-247-million-indian-bond-fund.html

          
          
             Kasikorn Asset Management Co.,
Thailand’s biggest money manager, plans to raise as much as 8
billion baht ($247 million) selling the nation’s first mutual
fund investing in bonds of Indian banks and companies.  
 The fund will invest in five state-owned and private
companies such as Indian Oil Corp., ICICI Bank Ltd. and Export-
Import Bank of India, said  Patchara Samalapa , managing director
of Kasikorn Asset, which oversees about $16 billion of assets.  
 Thai investors are looking overseas for returns as the Bank
of Thailand keeps its  benchmark rate  at 1.25 percent, the lowest
level since July 2004. South Korea’s key rate is 2 percent, and
India last week raised the reverse repurchase rate for a third
time this year to 4 percent, the highest level since March 2009.  
 “There is huge demand from domestic investors who are
searching for better returns than domestic deposits and
government bonds,” Patchara said. “The India fixed-income fund
will serve this demand with similar low risk and higher
return.”  
 Kasikorn Asset’s K Indian Fixed Income 2 Years A fund,
which will expire in two years, will probably offer a return of
about 3 percent a year, Patchara said. That compares with the
return of 1.5 percent on the bank’s two-year fixed deposits and
2.3 percent on Thai government bonds, he said.  
 The fund will hedge its foreign exchange risk with
forward contracts, Patchara said. It introduced the fund after
recently becoming the first Thai mutual fund to win Indian
government approval for bond investments, he said.  
 For Related News and Information:
Global statistics: STAT <GO>
For stories on Southeast Asia: TOP SAS <GO>
Thailand stories: NI THAI <Go>
Thailand Markets and Events: CBQ TH <GO>  
          
          


  


        