-- Alitalia Will Join Air France-Delta Joint Venture to Share Costs, Revenue
-- Sara Gay Forden
-- 2010-07-05T13:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/alitalia-will-join-air-france-delta-joint-venture-to-share-costs-revenue.html

          
          
             Alitalia SpA  will deepen its
partnership with Air France-KLM Group and  Delta Air Lines Inc. 
by sharing transatlantic revenue and costs to help boost profit.  
 The accord between the airlines, all of whom are members of
the SkyTeam alliance, could benefit Alitalia’s pretax earnings
by about 50 million euros ($63 million) annually in two or three
years, Chief Executive Officer  Rocco Sabelli  said at a news
conference in Rome today. The benefits will come primarily from
closer ties with Delta, he said.  
 “This is the way forward, through alliances and joint
ventures,” the CEO said. “That will allow us to maintain profit
and investments in the long term.”  
 The venture represents about $10 billion in sales and 26
percent of all transatlantic flights, according to a statement
today. The agreement covers 250 flights a day and 500
destinations in Europe and North America.  
 Once in the venture, Alitalia will be able to jointly plan
pricing, schedules and marketing with other carriers, allowing
it to maximize revenue and limit investments. The linkup could
allow carriers on both sides of the Atlantic to operate as a
single airline in a regulatory climate where mergers aren’t
feasible, Sabelli said.  
 Transatlantic Passengers  
 The venture with Air France is one of several groupings set
up to boost efficiency on transatlantic routes. British Airways
Plc,  Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA , and AMR Corp.’s American
Airlines are waiting for final approval of a venture from U.S.
and European regulators.  
 “What the airlines gain out of these alliances is the
ability to pool resources,” said  Dan Solon , a Barcelona-based
independent consultant for the commercial airline industry. “It
will also give Alitalia a halo effect in terms of being
perceived as one of the big three clusters of airlines.”  
 British Airways, Europe’s third-biggest carrier, and
American Airlines, the second-biggest in the U.S., were already
partners in the  Oneworld  alliance when they created their pact.
 Finnair Oyj  and  Royal Jordanian Airlines  are also part of that
venture, which is being evaluated by the European Union.  
 Rome-based Alitalia sold its main assets to the CAI group
of Italian investors in December 2008, and combined with smaller
rival Air One SpA. In January 2009, the airline’s board agreed
to sell a 25 percent stake to Air France. Sabelli today ruled
out a merger with Air France.  
 Sabelli said joining the venture was one of the goals for
CAI when it took over Alitalia. The company is performing well
and won’t need a capital increase because it has about 500
million euros in cash and credit lines available, the CEO said.
Revenue in the first half rose 10 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Scherer  in Rome at 
 sscherer@bloomberg.net ;
 Sara Gay Forden  in Milan at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        