-- Mandiri Names Zulkifli Zaini as President Director to Replace Martowardojo
-- Widya Utami
-- 2010-07-05T05:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/mandiri-names-zulkifli-zaini-as-president-director-to-replace-martowardojo.html

          
          
             PT Bank Mandiri , Indonesia’s largest
financial services company by assets, named  Zulkifli Zaini  as
president director to replace  Agus Martowardojo , who was
appointed as the country’s finance minister in May.  
 The appointment requires approval from Indonesia’s central
bank, Bank Mandiri Chief Financial Officer  Pahala Mansury  said
at a shareholder meeting in Indonesia today. He didn’t provide a
timeframe.  
 Bank Mandiri aims to be among the five largest lenders in
Southeast Asia, Zaini, 54, said today. The Jakarta-based company,
formed by merging four state banks in July 1999, is seeking to
expand in the region more than a decade after Indonesia’s
government, backed by the International Monetary Fund, bailed
out the banking industry following the Asian financial crisis.  
 Zaini is one of “the people who knows Mandiri’s problems
from the time of its establishment through the merger a decade
ago,”  A.G. Pahlevi , an analyst at PT Andalan Artha Advisindo
Sekuritas in Jakarta, said before today’s announcement. Pahlevi
rates Mandiri a “buy.”  
 Mandiri , whose name means self-reliance, was created by the
merger of PT Bank Bumi Daya, PT Bank Dagang Negara, PT Bank
Ekspor Impor Indonesia and PT Bank Pembangunan Indonesia.  
 Zaini, a graduate of Bandung Institute of Technology,
started as an accounts officer at PT Bank Pembangunan Asia in
1988. He was named director for commercial banking at Bank
Mandiri in June 2006, according to the 2009 annual report.  
 “Bank Mandiri will focus on boosting the wholesale
transaction business, retail payments and retail loans,” Zaini
said after the meeting.  
 Bank Mandiri rose 0.9 percent to 5,800 rupiah as of 10:56
a.m. in Jakarta. The shares have risen 23 percent this year,
outpacing the 14 percent gain in Jakarta’s benchmark index.  
 Martwardojo was named Indonesia’s finance minister in May
to replace  Sri Mulyani Indrawati , who joined the World Bank as
one of three managing directors.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        