-- Lance Armstrong Says He Was Among Riders to Crash at Rainy Tour de France
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-05T17:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/andy-schleck-crashes-at-tour-de-france-sylvain-chavanel-wins-second-stage.html

          
          
             Lance Armstrong  and  Alberto Contador 
were among riders to crash on rain-slicked roads at the Tour de
France today.  Sylvain Chavanel  won the second stage to take the
race-leading yellow jersey.  
 Chavanel, a Frenchman who rides for the Quick Step team,
launched a breakaway with about 15 miles left of the 125-mile
leg between Brussels and Spa, Belgium. He leads  Fabian Cancellara  by 2 minutes, 57 seconds in the overall standings.
Seven-time winner Armstrong is fifth, 3 minutes, 19 seconds off
the lead and five seconds ahead of defending champion Contador.  
 Armstrong, who said last week this will be his last Tour de
France, and Contador got involved in a pile-up with about 20
miles of the stage left. Television footage showed  Andy Schleck ,
the runner-up last year, grimacing and holding his left arm
after toppling off his bike.  
 “Rough day,” Armstrong said in a video on his RadioShack
team’s  website , adding he’d scraped his hip and elbow. “It was
as if someone had put something on the road. There was no way to
stay on your bike.”  
 Contador finished the stage with a sore knee as well as
cuts and bruises, Efe news wire reported from Spa, citing
doctors from his Astana team.  
 The 27-year-old Spaniard is vying for his third Tour win in
four years. He scraped his knee in another crash-filled stage
yesterday in which crowds encroached onto the course and a dog
ran into a pack of riders.  
 Armstrong, 38, finished third last year on his comeback
after a four-year absence.  
 After another crash today, Mickael Delage of the Omega
Pharma-Lotto team sat against a metal crash barrier where a
doctor staunched blood from his nose.  
 The race enters France for the first time tomorrow with a
132-mile leg, including eight miles over cobblestones that will
test riders and their equipment.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        