-- National Institute's Weale to Join BOE's Rate-Setting Panel, Treasury Says
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-07-05T10:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/martin-weale-to-join-bank-of-england-s-rate-setting-panel-treasury-says.html

          
          
             The U.K. Treasury appointed  Martin Weale  to serve on the Bank of England’s nine-member interest
rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee as it begins to split
over how soon to exit its emergency stimulus measures.  
 Weale, who is currently director of the National Institute
for Economic and Social Research in London, replaces  Kate Barker , whose term on the panel ended May 31. The appointment
will take effect in time for Weale to participate in the August
rate decision, the Treasury said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The committee voted 7-1 last month to keep its  benchmark
interest rate  at 0.5 percent, with  Andrew Sentance  making the
first push for an increase in almost two years. Weale, 55, will
be one of four so-called external members of the MPC, who are
not career officials at the central bank.  
 Weale “will be more likely to surprise” than Barker, said
 David Kern , chief economist at the British Chambers of Commerce
in London. “It’s very difficult to classify him as a dove or a
hawk.”  
 As a member of The Times newspaper’s shadow Monetary Policy
Committee, Weale voted last month for no change in rates or the
200 billion-pound ($302 billion) limit on quantitative easing,
the newspaper said June 10. He said that although  inflation  was
a concern, it was offset by the risks to economic growth from
the weaker euro and the Greek crisis, according to The Times.  
 “Obviously I’m looking forward to the opportunity but I’m
not in a position to comment on the state of the economy,” said
Weale in a telephone interview today.  
 Cambridge Graduate  
 Weale has run the London-based institute since 1995 and
also worked as an adviser to the Office for National Statistics.
 NIESR ’s clients include the Bank of England and the Treasury. A
graduate of Cambridge University, he was a fellow at the Bank of
England for a year in the mid-1980s and has also been a visiting
scholar at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis.  
 All 60 economists in a Bloomberg News survey expect the
central bank to leave the rate unchanged at a meeting on July 8.
Economists also forecast it will maintain the amount of  its
bond-purchase program , a separate survey shows.  
 Out of 109 meetings of the panel, Barker cast dissenting
votes five times. On four occasions she voted for a cut when the
majority preferred no change and at one meeting she wanted an
increase when the balance voted for no change. Overall, she
voted 78 times for no change in interest rates. She voted 11
times for an increase and 20 times for a cut.  
 Experience  
 An advertisement for the part-time position in the Sunday
Times in May said the appointment is for a three-year renewable
term, with total compensation of 131,771 pounds plus health-care
benefits. Thirty-four men and four women applied for the job,
the Treasury said.  
 “I am extremely happy to welcome Martin Weale to the
Monetary Policy Committee,” Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said in a statement. “His experience at the National
Institute and as an academic will be invaluable to the work of
the committee.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Martin Weale, director of the National Institute of Economic and Social Research. Source: National Institute of Economic and Social Research via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
