-- Euro Weakens, Bonds Rise on Trichet Austerity Comments; Stocks Fluctuate
-- Stephen Kirkland
-- 2010-07-05T15:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/asia-stocks-commodities-gain-as-region-s-recovery-seen-intact-won-climbs.html

          
          
             The euro ended a three-day winning
streak and bonds rose after European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  urged “austerity” measures to contain
budget deficits. Oil and stocks in Brazil and Canada declined.  
 The euro weakened 0.3 percent to $1.2531 at 11:26 a.m. in
New York. The yield on 10-year German  bunds  fell four basis
points to 2.55 percent. Crude futures slipped 0.8 percent.
Brazil’s Bovespa Index slumped 0.5 percent, and Canada’s S&P/TSX
Composite Index dropped 0.7 percent. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index 
lost 0.1 percent. September futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell 0.2 percent during the U.S. holiday. Copper increased
for a second day.  
 Trichet  said yesterday he has “no problem with austerity,
rigor” as “good budgetary management,” following reports last
week that showed U.S. payrolls dropped for the first time this
year and factory orders slumped. China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said
on July 3 policy makers face increasing “dilemmas”  and the
government will ensure “steady and relatively fast” growth.  
 “The outlook for growth around the world is certainly not
as optimistic as it was a few months ago,” said  Toby Hassall , a
commodity analyst at CWA Global Markets Pty in Sydney. “There
will be the longer-term participants in the market who are
viewing this decline in price as a good time to get long.”  
 The euro slipped 0.4 percent to 109.79 yen. The Swiss franc
strengthened 0.1 percent to 1.3340 per euro. The Swiss National
Bank has been “closely monitoring” the franc in recent weeks,
central bank President  Philipp Hildebrand  said, Blick reported
yesterday. South Korea’s won gained against its 16 most-active
counterparts after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its 2010
growth forecast for the nation and predicted the Bank of Korea
will lift its benchmark interest rate this quarter.  
 Poland’s Election  
 The zloty strengthened 1 percent against the euro, heading
for its biggest daily gain since June 10, as investors bet
 Bronislaw Komorowski ’s presidential election victory will help
Poland cut its deficit and adopt the euro in 2015.  
 The German two-year note yield declined for a second day,
dropping four basis points to 0.63 percent.  Nouriel Roubini , the
New York University economist who predicted the financial
crisis, said that government bonds of countries such as Germany,
Canada and the U.S. will represent a haven from increasingly
volatile markets in coming months.  
 Oil futures for August delivery lost 0.8 percent to $71.57
a barrel in New York, decreasing for a sixth straight day.  
 Vale, Petrobras  
 Brazilian equities were driven lower by Vale SA and
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, which fell more than 0.5 percent. The
MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose less than 0.1 percent. Taiwan’s
 HTC Corp. , the maker of Google Inc.’s Nexus One mobile phone,
surged the most in 14 months after Citigroup Inc. raised the
stock to “buy” from “sell.”  
 The  MSCI World Index  of stocks in 24 developed nations
declined 0.3 percent. The S&P/TSX slumped as all eight of
Canada’s public traded banks retreated.  
 BP Plc gained 4 percent in London. The company, which has
lost about half of its market value since April following the
Gulf of Mexico oil spill, is seeking an  investor  to thwart
takeover bids, the Sunday Times said.  Iberdrola Renovables SA ,
Spain’s biggest operator of wind-energy plants, rallied 5.3
percent in Madrid after the Spanish government agreed on
subsidies. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-biggest mining
company, fell 1.8 percent to lead metal producers lower.  
 Seven-Day Slump  
 U.S. stocks plunged last week, with the  S&P 500  falling 5
percent to the lowest level since Sept. 4, while the Dow Jones
Industrial Average recorded its first seven-day loss since 2008,
after reports showing slower-than-estimated growth in jobs and
factory orders. The Nasdaq-100 Index, which gets 63 percent of
its value from technology shares, has fallen a record 10
consecutive days as Apple Inc. and Microsoft Corp. slump.  
 Concern governments around the world are curtailing
stimulus measures too soon spurred  Barton Biggs  to sell about
half of his stock investments last week. Biggs, whose Traxis
Partners LLC gained 38 percent in 2009 when he bought equities
after the S&P 500 fell to a 12-year low, sold most of his U.S.
technology holdings, he told Bloomberg Television.  
 Copper for delivery in three months increased 0.8 percent
on the London Metal Exchange. Inventories of copper in
warehouses monitored by the LME dropped to 444,500 tons, the
lowest since May 5, and are down 12 percent this year.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  gained 0.2 percent today.
Centennial Coal Co. surged 32 percent in Sydney after Banpu Pcl
agreed to buy the 80 percent stake it doesn’t own already own.
Reliance Natural Resources Ltd., the natural gas supplier owned
by  Anil Ambani , plunged a record 28 percent in Mumbai after the
billionaire arranged to sell the company to his Reliance Power
Ltd. at a discount to speed construction of power plants.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A man is reflected in an electronic stock board in Tokyo  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.2 percent to 111.90 as of 11:30 a.m. in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.2 percent to 111.90 as of 11:30 a.m. in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 5 (Bloomberg) -- Mike Elliott, Sydney-based global mining and metals sector leader for Ernst & Young LLP, speaks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about Australia's planned resources tax.
     Prime Minister Julia Gillard agreed to cut the planned tax to 30 percent from 40 percent and raise the levy’s trigger level, a week after ousting Kevin Rudd as the nation’s leader to defuse a row that’s damped the government’s election prospects. Elliott also discusses the outlook for the mining industry, and Banpu Pcl's agreement to pay A$2 billion for the 80 percent of Centennial Coal Co. it doesn’t own to take control of thermal and coking coal mines in Australia. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- Barton Biggs, managing partner at Traxis Partners LLC, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy and investment strategy.
     Biggs said he’s worried the U.S. may enter a recession for the second time in three years and has reduced the risk of his investments as a result. He said the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index may decline 10 percent to 15 percent if there’s another recession. Biggs speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
