-- Most Asian Stocks Gain on Australian Takeovers, Yen; Centennial Coal Rises
-- Monami Yui
-- 2010-07-05T10:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/asian-stocks-gain-on-australian-takeovers-yen-centennial-coal-csr-climb.html

          
          
             Most  Asian stocks  rose, following the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s biggest weekly drop in more than a
month, amid takeover news in Australia and as a weaker yen
boosted the outlook for Japan’s exporters. Chinese banks dropped.  
 Centennial Coal Co.  surged 32 percent in Sydney after Banpu
Pcl agreed to buy the 80 percent of Centennial it doesn’t own
already own.  Panasonic Corp. , the world’s largest maker of
plasma televisions, climbed 1.6 percent as the yen weakened
against the euro.  Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s No. 3 lender,
sank 1.3 percent in Hong Kong after announcing a rights offer to
bolster capital.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  gained 0.2 percent to 111.89 as
of 7:18 p.m. in Tokyo, with five stocks advancing for every four
that dropped. The gauge has fallen 13 percent from its high this
year on April 15 on concern Europe’s debt crisis and Chinese
steps to curb property prices will hurt global growth. Companies
in the measure trade at an average of 13.6 times estimated
profit, the lowest level since December 2008.  
 “Different sentiments among investors are colliding with
each other,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a strategist in Tokyo at
Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees about $65
billion. “Stocks are relatively undervalued. Although there is
uncertainty in being long on equities, some investors are giving
it a go.”  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 0.7 percent. Acom Co.
led a surge in consumer lenders after the Mainichi newspaper
reported the Osaka government will seek to start a business zone
with looser lending rules than national laws.  
 Weak U.S. Data  
 China’s Shanghai Composite Index sank 0.8 percent and Hong
Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  fell 0.3 percent as a Chinese services-
industry index slid to a 15-month low in June, adding to signs
that the world’s third-biggest economy is cooling.  
 Taiwan’s  Taiex  advanced 1.5 percent, the most among
benchmark indexes in the Asia-Pacific region, led by  Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co.  South Korea’s Kospi Index gained 0.2
percent.  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The gauge retreated 0.5 percent on July 2 after
government reports said U.S. payrolls decreased by 125,000 last
month, the first drop this year, and factory orders declined.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  slumped 3.4 percent last week,
as weaker manufacturing growth in the U.S., Europe and China
added to signs the global economic recovery is slowing. The
decline was the gauge’s biggest weekly drop since the period
ended May 21.  
 “We’re a bit oversold in the short term and people are
trying to get value,” said  Chris Weston , head of institutional
dealing at IG Markets in Melbourne. “What we’re seeing at the
moment is a classic tug of war between bearish market dynamics
and bullish valuations.”  
 Centennial, CSR  
 Centennial Coal surged 32 percent to A$5.83.  Banpu ,
Thailand’s biggest coal producer, agreed to buy the shares of
the company it doesn’t own for A$2 billion ($1.7 billion). Banpu
will pay A$6.20 a share, 40 percent more than Centennial’s
closing price on July 2. Banpu gained 2 percent to 614 baht.  
 CSR Ltd. , Australia’s No. 2 building-products maker, gained
3.5 percent to A$1.755. Wilmar International Ltd., the world’s
largest palm-oil trader, agreed to buy CSR’s sugar unit for
A$1.75 billion, beating China’s Bright Food Group Co.’s offer
for Australia’s biggest refiner. Singapore-listed Wilmar
increased 2.3 percent to S$5.88.  
 Shares of Japanese exporters gained after the yen
depreciated to as low as 110.42 against the euro from 109.93 at
the close of stock trading in Tokyo on July 2. A weaker yen
boosts overseas income for Japanese companies when converted
into their home currency.  
 Consumer Lenders  
 Panasonic increased 1.6 percent to 1,116 yen.  Sony Corp. ,
the maker of PlayStation game consoles and Bravia televisions,
rose 0.9 percent to 2,330 yen. Canon Inc., the world’s biggest
maker of cameras, gained 0.8 percent to 3,285 yen.  
 In Tokyo, Acom soared 26 percent to 1,444 yen. Credit
Saison Co., a consumer-credit company, jumped 9 percent to 997
yen. The two stocks rose the most in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
today.  
 Osaka is in the final stages of a proposal to the Japanese
government to allow the municipality to override the nation’s
lending rules introduced in June, the Mainichi newspaper
reported on July 3. The Osaka prefectural government plans to
announce the plan tomorrow, spokeswoman Yumi Fujiwara said,
without giving additional details.  
 In Hong Kong, Bank of China sank 1.3 percent to HK$3.92,
while its Shanghai-listed stock lost 0.9 percent to 3.37 yuan.
Both listings were halted on July 2 pending an announcement on
the bank’s fund raising. The Beijing-based  lender  plans to raise
as much as 60 billion yuan ($8.9 billion) from its rights offer.  
 Property Correction?  
 Shares of bigger rivals also dropped. Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. slipped 0.7 percent to HK$5.58.
China Construction Bank Corp. fell 1 percent to HK$6.14.  
 Chinese developers declined after the Securities Times
cited Land and Resources Minister  Xu Shaoshi  as saying property
prices are likely heading for a correction.  Country Garden
Holdings Co. , the property developer controlled by China’s
richest woman, fell 1.9 percent to HK$2.10 in Hong Kong. Agile
Property Holdings Ltd., a developer of residential condominiums,
slipped 2.9 percent to HK$8.10.  
 “There hasn’t been a change in the government’s tightening
stance,” said  Zhou Xi , a strategist at Bohai Securities Co.
“The economy is slowing and pressure on profits will begin to
grow.”  
 A measure for China’s services industry fell for a third
month in June, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said.
Today’s data and weak manufacturing figures last week provide
more evidence China’s growth is slowing as the government cracks
down on property speculation and the effects of stimulus
measures fade.  
 A measure of  technology stocks  in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index climbed 1.1 percent, the most of 10 industry groups. In
Taipei, Hon Hai, the world’s largest contract manufacturer of
electronics, climbed 3.6 percent to NT$116. The company got an
order of 5 million laptop computers from Dell Inc. for next year,
the Economic Daily News said.  
 HTC Corp., which makes Google Inc.’s Nexus One mobile phone,
advanced 6.9 percent to NT$471.5 after Citigroup Inc. upgraded
the stock to “buy” from “sell.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A man is reflected in an electronic stock board in Tokyo  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.2 percent to 111.90 as of 11:30 a.m. in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.2 percent to 111.90 as of 11:30 a.m. in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 5 (Bloomberg) -- Mike Elliott, Sydney-based global mining and metals sector leader for Ernst & Young LLP, speaks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about Australia's planned resources tax.
     Prime Minister Julia Gillard agreed to cut the planned tax to 30 percent from 40 percent and raise the levy’s trigger level, a week after ousting Kevin Rudd as the nation’s leader to defuse a row that’s damped the government’s election prospects. Elliott also discusses the outlook for the mining industry, and Banpu Pcl's agreement to pay A$2 billion for the 80 percent of Centennial Coal Co. it doesn’t own to take control of thermal and coking coal mines in Australia. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
