-- Aspen Said to Reduce Its $589 Million Takeover Offer for Australia's Sigma
-- Simeon Bennett
-- 2010-07-06T07:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/aspen-said-to-lower-offer-for-sigma-pharma-as-negotiations-hinge-on-price.html

          
          
             Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd.  will
reduce its A$707 million ($596 million)  takeover  offer for Sigma
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. after reviewing the Australian company’s
accounts, a person familiar with the matter said.  
 Aspen, Africa’s largest drugmaker, has told Sigma it wants
to continue the review after an exclusivity period expired
yesterday, the Melbourne-based company said in a statement today.
A plan by Sigma shareholders to sue the company is also weighing
on the bid and price, said  Stuart Roberts , a health-care analyst
at Southern Cross Equities Ltd. in Sydney.  
 Sigma shares have remained below Durban, South Africa-based
Aspen’s indicative offer on May 21 of 60 Australian cents a
share, which includes Aspen assuming Sigma’s net debt of A$785
million. Sigma last month said it may miss its annual profit
forecast after announcing resignations by three top executives
following a record loss in March that triggered a 48 percent
one-day plunge in the stock.  
 “The Australian market was signaling Aspen will come with
a downward-revised offer,”  Mark Wadley , an analyst at Credit
Suisse Standard Securities, said by phone from Johannesburg
yesterday.  
 Discussions hinging on price are continuing, said the
person familiar with the matter, who declined to be identified
as the negotiations are private.  
 Shares Decline  
 Sigma, Australia’s biggest drugs distributor, closed
unchanged at 39.5 Australian cents in Sydney trading today,
after falling as much as 3.8 percent. Aspen, which fell 4.3
percent last week,  rose  0.3 percent to 75.16 rand at 9:06 a.m.
in Johannesburg today.  
 Ian Smith, an external spokesman for Sigma, didn’t return a
call and text message today seeking comment. The company will
consider other opportunities and recommends that shareholders
take no action, it said in today’s statement. Shauneen Beukes,
an external spokeswoman for Aspen, yesterday said the company
declined to comment.  
 Aspen is “uneasy” about bearing the risk of a possible
lawsuit against Sigma, the Australian Financial Review reported
June 24, without saying where it got the information.  
 A group of Sigma’s shareholders plan to sue the company for
breach of continuous disclosure and misleading or deceptive
conduct, said Ben Phi, a senior associate at  Slater & Gordon
Ltd. , the law firm coordinating the class action. The
shareholders will seek damages from Sigma, Phi said by telephone
from Melbourne today, declining to say how much.  
 No ‘Reasonable Basis’  
 “We’re saying that basically from about September last
year when Sigma reconfirmed its earnings guidance, that it did
so without a reasonable basis,” Phi said. “The conditions in
the marketplace in which it was operating, as well as its first-
half results, indicated that it really was not in a position to
achieve the guidance that it was providing.”  
 The “vast bulk” of Sigma’s institutional  shareholders  are
participating in the action, Phi said by telephone today. The
company hasn’t filed its papers yet and hasn’t spoken to either
Sigma or Aspen about the suit, Phi said.  
 “Obviously it’s going to be weighing on the minds of the
Aspen people, and if they can use it to leverage a better bid,
good luck to them,” said Roberts at Southern Cross Equities.
“I suspect that’s what they’re trying to do now. If they were
really freaked, they would have walked today.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        