-- Italian Benchmark Stocks Decline; Atlantia, Autogrill, Banco Popolare Move
-- Francesca Cinelli
-- 2010-07-05T16:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/atlantia-intesa-landi-stefanel-may-move-today-italian-equity-preview.html

          
          
             Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index 
lost 225.29, or 1.2 percent, to 18,848.56, the lowest level in
almost a month.  
 The following stocks are among the most active in the
Italian market today.  
 AS Roma SpA  (ASR IM) climbed 6.5 euro cents, or 7.2
percent, to 97.1 cents. The Sensi family may agree to hand over
the ownership of Compagnia Italpetroli SpA, which controls the
Italian soccer club, to UniCredit SpA, Il Sole 24 Ore reported,
without saying where it got the information.  
 The two companies may reach agreement ending a dispute
over a 325 million-euro ($407.1 million) debt, Il Sole
reported.  
 Atlantia SpA  (ATL IM) increased 40 cents, or 2.7 percent,
to 15 euros. The two main shareholders of Abertis
Infraestructuras SA and CVC Capital Partners Ltd. are in talks
over a possible transaction involving Spain’s biggest highway
operator, a person with knowledge of the situation said.  
 Autogrill SpA  (AGL IM) rose 13 cents, or 1.4 percent, to
9.6 euros, the first gain in three sessions. Fidentiis Equities
SV SA kept a “buy” rating on the world’s biggest manager of
airport and highway restaurants, citing a 4.6 percent increase
in Continental Airlines Inc. passenger revenues in June due to
recovery in business traffic.  
 Banca Popolare di Milano Scrl  (PMI IM) declined 7.5 cents,
or 2.2 percent, to 3.34 euros after it was asked by Italy’s
financial regulator to review how it sells investments to
individuals. Consob asked the bank’s board to review sales
practices to protect individual clients from potential
conflicts of interest, the regulator said in its weekly
bulletin.  
 Banco Popolare SC  (BP IM) lost 13.5 cents, or 3 percent,
to 4.33 euros, the stock’s third consecutive loss. Intermonte
Sim SpA downgraded the lender to “neutral” from
“outperform.”  
 “The European stress test could put further pressure on
banks that currently have lower capital ratios to raise capital
sooner rather than later,” the brokerage said in a note.  
 Credito Emiliano SpA  (CE IM) fell 13.5 cents, or 2.9
percent, to 4.5 euros. Banca Akros cut its recommendation on
the regional bank to “hold” from “buy,” because of the
“recent positive stock performance.”  
 The bank may consider a sale of its investment banking
unit, Il Sole 24 Ore reported, without saying where it got the
information. “A disposal of Abaxbank SpA would be good news
for Credem, given its non-strategic nature for the group,” the
brokerage wrote.  
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA  (ISP IM), Italy’s second-biggest bank,
declined 4.25 cents, or 2 percent, to 2.1 euros as a gauge for
European banks retreated today.  
 “With the markets forcing austerity programs on almost
all countries in Europe, we believe we are going to see further
pain in the real economy which will translate into higher than
expected provisions and lower earnings,” Sanford Bernstein &
Co. said in a note on European banks.  
 With regard to the bank’s interest into Bank Zachodni WBK
SA, “the price at which a potential transaction is done will
be key” to assess if a potential acquisition would create
value, Kepler Capital Markets said in a note.  
 Mondo Home Entertainment SpA  (MHE IM) rose 1 percent to
13.8 cents, ending a four-session loss, as it said an agreement
with Mediaset SpA on film rights licensing for Mediaset’s
digital pay-television.  
 The contract is worth 2 million euros, the company said in
a statement.  
 Pirelli & C. SpA  (PC IM) gained for a second session,
rising 1 percent to 44.85 cents. Equita Sim SpA reiterated a
“buy” rating on Europe’s third-largest tiremaker. Equita said
in a note that the increase in prices by Bridgestone Corp. in
the U.S. “provides yet more confirmation of the strict price
discipline applied by all the top tiremakers to protect margins
from rising raw material prices, particularly for natural
rubber, which on average accounts for roughly 10 percent of
turnover.”  
 Saipem SpA  (SPM IM), Europe’s largest oilfield-services
provider, lost 69 cents, or 2.7 percent, to 24.8 euros. Crude
oil declined on concern that a slower pace of economic recovery
in China may constrain global fuel demand.  
 Tenaris SA  (TEN IM), the world’s biggest maker of seamless
steel tubes for oil and gas extraction, dropped 43 cents, or 3
percent, to 13.95 euros.  
 Yoox SpA  (YOOX IM) rose 16.5 cents, or 2.9 percent, to
5.86 euros, extending a gain of 4.2 percent on July 2. The
Internet fashion retailer may consider making small
acquisitions in the mobile technology industry and among Web-
design companies, though it forecasts “double-digit growth”
on a stand-alone basis, founder  Federico Marchetti  told Milano
Finanza in an interview.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        