-- Australian Dollar Rises as Asian Stocks Gain, Report Points to Job Growth
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-07-05T06:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/australian-dollar-rises-as-asian-stocks-gain-report-points-to-job-growth.html

          
          
             The Australian dollar rose, ending a
five-day drop against the yen, as Asian stocks advanced and
signs the nation’s labor market is improving spurred demand for
higher-yielding assets.  
 Australia’s currency reversed earlier losses versus the
greenback after an industry report showed job advertisements
climbed for a second month in June and economists said data this
week will show employment increased for a fourth month.
Economists say the Reserve Bank of Australia will keep its
benchmark interest rate at 4.5 percent tomorrow, compared with
as low as zero in the U.S. and 0.1 percent in Japan.  
 “Stock markets are in positive territory and that’s giving
some guidance to future growth,” said  Richard Grace , chief
currency strategist in Sydney at Commonwealth Bank of Australia,
the nation’s largest lender. “The relative health in the local
economy is probably providing some support” for the Australian
dollar.  
 Australia’s currency rose to 74.36 yen as of 4:17 p.m. in
Sydney from 73.85 yen in New York last week, after earlier
falling as much as 0.6 percent. The currency gained 0.5 percent
to 84.55 U.S. cents. New Zealand’s dollar advanced 0.6 percent
to 60.84 yen, and climbed 0.5 percent to 69.19 U.S. cents.  
 Both currencies strengthened as the  MSCI Asia Pacific  Index
of shares rose 0.2 percent, snapping a four-day decline.  
 Australia’s dollar rallied after a report from Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. showed jobs advertised in
newspapers and on the Internet gained 2.7 percent in June, the
same as the previous month.  
 employment Rolls  
 The number of people employed in Australia increased by
15,000 in June, after climbing 26,900 in May, according to a
Bloomberg survey before the July 8 statistics bureau report.  
 RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  has boosted borrowing costs six
times since early October from a half-century low of 3 percent,
citing an economic expansion the central bank forecasts will
almost double to 4 percent in the next two years.  
 The interest-rate increases helped stoke a 27 percent gain
in Australia’s dollar in the 12 months through April 30, making
it the second-best performer among the world’s 16 most-traded
currencies. The Aussie has since pared around a third of that
rally amid signs the global economy is cooling.  
 Gains in the Australian and New Zealand dollars were
tempered before a U.S. report tomorrow that economists said will
show service industries in the world’s largest economy expanded
at a slower pace.  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses, which make up about 90 percent of the
U.S. economy, fell to 55 in June from 55.4 in May, according to
a Bloomberg survey. Readings above 50 signal expansion.  
 ‘More Concerned’  
 “Markets have become more concerned about the global
outlook,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney. “With that kind of background,
it’s hard to see the Aussie and kiwi rallying.”  
 Australian government bonds rose. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note fell three basis points to 5.07 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 4.5 percent note
due April 2020 gained 0.24, or A$2.40 per A$1,000 face amount,
to 95.68.  
 New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, was little changed at 4.15 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        