-- Australia TD Annual Inflation Gauge Holds Above Central Bank Target Range
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-05T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/australia-td-annual-inflation-gauge-holds-above-central-bank-target-range.html

          
          
             A  gauge  of Australia’s annual
inflation held above the top of the central bank’s target range
in June after a jump in prices for fruit and vegetables.  
 Consumer prices advanced 3.6 percent from a year earlier,
after gaining 3.7 percent in May, according to an index compiled
by TD Securities Ltd. and the Melbourne Institute released in
Sydney today. Prices increased 0.3 percent from a month earlier,
when they rose 0.5 percent.  
 An economic expansion in Australia, one of the few
countries to skirt last year’s global recession, has pushed
inflation above the central bank’s target range of 2 percent to
3 percent. Governor  Glenn Stevens  increased the  benchmark
lending rate  six times since early October to 4.5 percent and
will tomorrow keep the rate unchanged, according to analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 “Uncomfortably high inflation should not be particularly
surprising since the Australian economy is all but fully
employed,” said  Annette Beacher , senior strategist at TD
Securities in Singapore.  
 Beacher said Australia’s consumer price index, due to be
published on July 28, probably rose 1 percent in the second
quarter from the three months through March, for an annual gain
of 3.4 percent.  
 “We believe this inflation news will be a key tipping
point for the Reserve Bank to upwardly adjust the benchmark rate
by a quarter percentage point to 4.75 percent, perhaps as soon
as August,” she said.  
 Consumer prices rose 2.9 percent in the first quarter from
a year earlier, the most since late 2008, a report by the Bureau
of Statistics showed on April 28.  
 The Melbourne Institute is a research unit of Melbourne
University and TD Securities is a division of Toronto-Dominion
Bank, one of Canada’s largest lenders. The monthly inflation
index measures the prices of 1,000 goods and services.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        