-- Australian Pension Industry Needs Lower-Fee `MySuper' Fund, Review Says
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-07-05T04:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/australian-pension-industry-needs-lower-fund-fees-government-review-says.html

          
          
             Australia’s pension industry will
need to compete for a smaller fee pool if lawmakers implement a
new standardized fund recommended by a  government-commissioned 
review, Superannuation Minister  Chris Bowen  said.  
 The new option, called MySuper, may cut fees savers pay to
asset managers by 40 percent, helping the average worker retire
with an extra A$40,000 ($33,700), according to the study of the
A$1.1 trillion pension system overseen by  Jeremy Cooper , former
deputy chairman of Australia’s markets regulator.  
 “Fund managers will need to keep their pencils very
sharp,” Bowen said in Canberra today about competition for a
reduced fee pool. The government will respond to the review
proposals in the next two months, he said.  
 Australia’s current pension system is too expensive,
complex and doesn’t always put member interests first, according
to today’s report. The nation’s workers will have A$6.1 trillion
in pension savings plans by 2035, from A$1.1 trillion last July,
it said. MySuper’s introduction may lift fund balances at
retirement by 7 percent, according to the document.  
 AMP Ltd. and Commonwealth Bank of Australia’s Colonial
First State unit manage the two largest pension funds, according
to  data  from the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority, as
of June 2009.  
 The Treasury estimates long-term savings of about A$2.7
billion per year from MySuper, along with more efficient back-
office operations, according to the Cooper report.  
 ‘Disengagement and Disinterest’  
 “The MySuper proposal is overly paternalistic and will
entrench disengagement and disinterest,” industry body the
Investment & Financial Services Association said in a statement
today. “If the purpose of MySuper is to deliver inexpensive,
consumer friendly super, it already exists.”  
 Australian employers make compulsory pension fund
contributions of 9 percent of each worker’s salary. That will
increase to 12 percent by fiscal 2020, Treasurer  Wayne Swan   said 
May 2.  
 As much as 25 percent of Australia’s population will be
aged 65 or older by 2056, according to the  statistics bureau .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        