-- Balfour Beatty, BT, PartyGaming, Tullow Oil: U.K., Irish Equity Preview
-- Ben Martin
-- 2010-07-06T06:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/balfour-beatty-bt-tullow-oil-plc-vodafone-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in U.K. and Irish
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are from
the last market close.  
 The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  fell 14.56, or 0.3 percent, to
4,823.53. The  FTSE All-Share Index  declined 0.2 percent and
Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  fell 0.6 percent.  
 Balfour Beatty Plc  (BBY LN): Britain’s biggest builder said
it expects its order book to be ahead of the 14.1 billion pounds
($21 billion) reported in December even as it sees
“uncertainties” in some parts of its markets, “particularly
with regard to government funding of infrastructure
investment.” The shares advanced 1.1 percent to 236.6 pence.  
      BP Plc  (BP/ LN): The oil company is not planning to issue
new shares to strategic investors amid pressure on its finances
caused by the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the Financial Times
reported, citing an unnamed official. Separately, analysts at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc raised their recommendation on
the shares to “buy” from “hold.”  
 BT Group Plc  (BT/A LN): The U.K.’s biggest fixed-line phone
company will resume pay talks with the Communication Workers
Union after a strike ballot was canceled because of legal
technicalities. The stock fell 0.2 percent to 126.3 pence.  
 HSBC Holdings Plc  (HSBA LN): The U.S. Justice Department is
conducting a criminal investigation of HSBC clients who may have
failed to disclose accounts in India or Singapore to the
Internal Revenue Service, according to three people familiar
with the matter. Shares in the bank fell 0.7 percent to 596.2
pence.  
 N Brown Group Plc  (BWNG LN): The U.K. owner of the Fashion
World and Simply Be catalogs said sales at stores open at least
a year rose 0.1 percent in the 18 weeks to July 3 compared with
the same period last year. The shares gained 0.8 percent to
254.9 pence.  
 PartyGaming Plc  (PRTY LN): The U.K. gambling website
operator said its trading is “in line” with the board’s
forecasts even though the impact of the World Cup was greater
than expected on its poker operations. The stock climbed 1.1
percent to 220.8 pence.  
 Persimmon Plc  (PSN LN): The U.K.’s third-largest
homebuilder by volume said sales in the first six months of the
year rose 26 percent as the housing market’s recovery enabled
the company to increase prices. The shares rose 1.5 percent to
348.5 pence.  
 Punch Taverns Plc  (PUB LN): The pub operator said it
remains on track to meet forecasts for the financial year, with
good weather in May and June offsetting a disappointing
performance in January. The shares added 2.4 percent to 64.55
pence.  
 Spice Plc  (SPI LN): The U.K. reader of water meters said it
received an updated proposal from Cinven Ltd. of between 62
pence and 65 pence per share for the company. The offer
undervalues the company, Spice said, and its board has not
entered discussions with Cinven. The stock climbed 1.9 percent
to 54 pence.  
 Tullow Oil Plc  (TLW LN): The U.K. explorer with the most
licenses in Africa said the Ugandan government is likely to
approve its purchase of assets from Heritage Oil Plc
“imminently.” The shares fell 0.5 percent to 1,041 pence.  
 Vodafone Group Plc  (VOD LN): The world’s biggest mobile-
phone operator aims to be the number one or two mobile-phone
operator in each country in which it operates, Chief Executive
Officer Vittorio Colao said at a London Business School
conference. The stock was unchanged at 136.5 pence.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Martin  in London   bmartin38@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        