-- Banking Tests Do Nothing But Stress Out Markets: Matthew Lynn
-- Matthew Lynn
-- 2010-07-05T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/bank-tests-do-nothing-but-stress-out-markets-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html

          
          
             Another week, another bad idea. With
the markets still jumpy about Greece, the sovereign-debt crisis
and the banking system, the European Union’s leaders have come
up with a way to reassure us that everything is just fine in the
euro area, and there is really nothing to worry about.  
 They are called stress tests.  
 Regulators will take a hard look at the big European
lenders, such as  Banco Santander SA , BNP Paribas SA and Deutsche
Bank AG, then run various catastrophic scenarios past them, and
check that the bank has the strength to withstand whatever
storms might blow their way.  
 Sounds like a good idea? Well, not really. In truth, there
aren’t any common standards, we don’t know what scenarios are
being tested, and we don’t know if all the results are going to
be published. All this is doing is sparking another round of
feverish speculation.  
 In effect, it is the stress tests themselves that are
stressing out the markets.  
 The tests probably sounded sensible when they were
announced at an EU summit on June 17. The Bank of Spain said it
would publish the results of its own tests before German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
followed suit, proposing assessments for all main European
banks. “What’s important right now is that we have maximum
transparency,” said Merkel, announcing the initiative.  
 Nervous Investors  
 There is absolutely no sign the tests -- which are due to
be published later this month -- have calmed investors. If
anything, they are more nervous about the fragility of the
European banking system than ever.  
 Of course, it is possible to see what Merkel and Sarkozy
were hoping to achieve.  
 Right now, speculators are having a field day. All they
have to do is put out the idea that a Spanish savings bank or
one of the German Landesbanken has a balance sheet stuffed full
of dodgy loans. Then the markets dive. Since no one really knows
what bank had lent money to whom, there is space for all kinds
of wild rumors to flourish.  
 Disclose everything, and you reassure the markets that
Europe’s financial system isn’t bust.  
 Good enough in theory. But there are five reasons why it
isn’t working out the way they hoped.  
 National Standards  
 One, there aren’t any common standards. European banks are
all regulated on a national basis. The judgments applied to a
Portuguese bank may be quite different to a Swedish one. Europe-
wide stress tests don’t make any sense unless there is a single
European regulator applying the same standard to each.  
 Two, what’s being tested exactly? There are all sorts of
scenarios you can think of where the banks come through OK. A
mild recession in Germany, for example. The oil price surging
back to $100 a barrel? But what the markets are really nervous
about is that Greece defaults, or Spain comes under attack, and
that it brings down some really big banks. Unless you test the
ability to withstand that kind of extreme event, it’s just a
whitewash, and that won’t reassure anyone.  
 Three, it still isn’t clear whether the results will be
made public. Some of the German banks are resisting compulsory
publication. The British regulators may not be allowed to
release the results without the permission of the bank involved.
Why should they agree to that when there might be sensitive
commercial information being disclosed? And yet, if the tests
are kept secret, it is just a joke. And investors will assume
any bank that doesn’t publish the results has something to hide.  
 Dodgy Loans  
 Fourth, who says the horrors are hidden inside the big
banks? If you know you have lots of bad loans, and you are about
to be stress-tested, maybe you could offload them to a friendly
hedge fund for a few weeks. You might be able to, or you might
not. The point is, a speculator can always spread rumors that
you have parked all the stuff somewhere else -- and then the
stress tests will have achieved precisely nothing.  
 Finally, and most importantly, it just sets off a new round
of speculation. Now everyone is worrying about what the stress
tests will reveal. It sets a deadline, and everyone is nervous
about that. If you are going to have stress tests, get them done
behind the scenes, then announce the results when you inform the
public of the decision to have the tests.  
 EU leaders think this is a crisis caused by financial
markets. They imagine a basically sound system is being
undermined by a bunch of badly behaved traders and hedge-fund
managers. And they think, naively, that if they just get enough
information out there, everyone will see that the euro is in
good shape, and stop worrying about it.  
 It isn’t true. The real issue is that Greece is probably
bust, will default sooner or later, and will inflict huge losses
on the banking system when it does.  
 Stress tests won’t change that harsh reality. All they are
doing is making the markets even more nervous than before.  
 ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Matthew Lynn  in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Rogoff, professor at Harvard University and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about China's real estate market and economy.
     Rogoff, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for European banks, the global economy and stimulus policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
