-- Baseball's Pete Rose Scandal May Be Guide for Japan Sumo, Konishiki Says
-- Anna Mukai
-- 2010-07-05T03:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/baseball-s-pete-rose-scandal-may-be-guide-for-japan-sumo-konishiki-says.html

          
          
             Japan’s  sumo  wrestlers caught
gambling should be punished individually rather than as a group,
former champion Konishiki said, citing the example of Major
League Baseball’s  Pete Rose .  
 Sumo’s governing authority yesterday banned a wrestler and
coach for life after they admitted to betting on professional
baseball games. The centuries-old sport is struggling to contain
the gambling scandal, with alleged connections to organized
crime, that’s resulted in  Fuji Xerox Co.  and at least four other
companies pulling their sponsorship of this month’s tournament.  
 “Pete was expelled from the Major League for gambling, but
the MLB was not blamed for Pete,” Konishiki, a Hawaiian-born
 wrestler  who retired in 1997, said in an interview yesterday in
Tokyo. “What happens past 6 o’clock is each wrestler’s privacy,
and needs to be separated from what happens within sumo.”  
 A three-month investigation in 1989 found that Rose bet on
baseball games during his time as manager of the Cincinnati Reds,
leading to him being barred from baseball and disqualified from
selection to the sport’s Hall of Fame.  
 More than 65 members of the sumo association have admitted
to illegal gambling on baseball, mahjong and card games,
Japanese media reported last month.  
 Konishiki, 46, who was the all-time heaviest sumo
competitor at more than 600 pounds (272 kilograms) and reached
the second-highest rank of ozeki, said wrestlers should be
punished as individuals.  
 “Regardless of whether they were sumo wrestlers or not,
what they did was illegal and they need to be held responsible
for that,” he said.  
 Salt Throwing  
 Sumo, which weaves aspects of Shintoism into matches
including a purification ritual that involves throwing salt
before bouts, is seeking to protect 8.5 billion yen ($97
million) in annual tournament revenue and repair a reputation
already tarnished in recent years by allegations of assault,
trainee abuse and drug use.  
 The Japan Sumo Association yesterday decided to remove
wrestler Kotomitsuki and stablemaster Otake after an emergency
board meeting. Other wrestlers that admitted to gambling have
been suspended from competing in the next tournament.  
 Tokyo-based  NHK , which has broadcast the six annual sumo
tournaments since 1953, has said it may cancel coverage of the
15-day competition to begin July 11 unless the association takes
“sufficient” measures to address the gambling scandal.  
 “There’s people out there who truly look forward to
watching the games so I want them to continue broadcasting
them,” Konishiki said. “There are many people whose income
depends on the tournament, and I’m glad the wrestlers who
weren’t involved in the scandal are able to wrestle.”  
 Wrestlers, who are known by a single name, are organized in
stables managed by former wrestlers.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shunichi Ozasa  in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Mukai  in Tokyo at ?2083 or
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Sumo wrestler Kotomitsuki arrives for the Japan Sumo Association's executive meeting in Tokyo. Photographer: Stringer/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 5 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Mike Firn reports on a decision by Japan’s sumo association yesterday to remove wrestler Kotomitsuki and stablemaster Otake over their involvement in baseball gambling.
     Kotomitsuki holds the sport’s second-highest rank of ozeki, or champion, while Otake is a former wrestler who took over as head of his stable after retiring. The centuries-old sport is seeking to protect its 8.5 billion yen ($97 million) in annual tournament revenue and repair a reputation already tarnished in recent years by allegations of assault, trainee abuse and drug use. Bloomberg's Linzie Janis also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Sumo stable master Otake  
                       
                         
                           Stringer/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Sumo stable master Otake arrives for the Japan Sumo Association's executive meeting in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Sumo stable master Otake arrives for the Japan Sumo Association's executive meeting in Tokyo. Photographer: Stringer/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
