-- BP Said to Consider Selling Colombia, Venezuela Fields to Pay Spill Costs
-- Brian Swint
-- 2010-07-05T16:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/bp-said-to-consider-selling-colombia-venezuela-fields-to-pay-spill-costs.html

          
          
             BP Plc , seeking cash to meet the
costs of the worst U.S. spill, is considering selling fields in
Colombia, Venezuela and Vietnam, a person with knowledge of the
matter said.  
 BP may also dispose of its 60 percent holding in Pan
American Energy LLC, Argentina’s second-largest oil producer,
the person said, declining to be identified because the
information is confidential. The London-based company has a gas
field and pipeline in Vietnam and holds stakes in three
production ventures in Venezuela. BP is a partner in Colombia’s
two biggest oil fields, where production peaked in 1999.  
 The U.K.’s largest oil producer pledged to raise $10
billion through assets sales in the next 12 months to pay the
costs of compensating victims of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill
caused by the blowout of the Macondo well in April. The company
said disposals would concentrate on oil and gas fields outside
regions promising production growth.  
 “These assets aren’t ones that they’ve been focusing on as
much as in other regions,” said  David Hart , an analyst at
Westhouse Securities Ltd. in London. “Pan American stands out
because they can get close to the amount they’re targeting with
one asset.”  
 Cnooc Ltd.,  the largest offshore oil producer, may be a
bidder for the Pan-American stake after it acquired a 20 percent
holding when it agreed in March to pay $3.1 billion for half of
BP’s partner, Bridas Corp. The transaction values BP’s stake at
more than $9 billion.  
 ‘Carve Out’  
 “Pan American is the obvious place to start,” said
 Christopher Wheaton , who manages about $400 million of
securities at Allianz RCM’s Energy Fund in London, including BP
shares. “It’s got a valuation from Cnooc in mid-March and is
one of the assets you could carve out of the portfolio easily.”  
 BP spokesman  Mark Salt  in London declined to comment.  
 The company’s shares  have dropped 50 percent since the
April 20 blowout that sank the Deepwater Horizon rig and killed
11 workers, wiping about 60 billion pounds ($91 billion) off
BP’s value. The stock rose 3.5 percent in London today to close
at 333.3 pence.  
 Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  and Chief Executive Officer
 Tony Hayward  agreed to set up a $20 billion compensation fund
after meeting President  Barack Obama  last month. To pay for it,
the company suspended its $10 billion annual dividend, cut
capital spending and promised asset sales.  
 The Macondo field, which holds an estimated 50 million
barrels of crude, has spewed millions of gallons of oil into the
sea, spoiling the U.S. coastline, harming wildlife, stopping
fishing and damaging the tourist industry.  
 Exxon Mobil  
 BP produced  3.9 million barrels of oil and gas in the first
quarter, second only to Exxon Mobil Corp. among private sector
oil producers.  
 Pan-American, a venture created when BP bought Amoco Corp.
in 1998, produces about 100,000 barrels of crude oil a day and
450 cubic meters of gas, according to the BP website.  
 In Colombia, BP developed the Cusiana and Cupiagua fields
in the early 1990s. Connected to the Caribbean through a 800-
kilometer (500-mile) pipeline. The fields now produce 177,000 a
barrels a day, according to the company’s website. Partners
include state oil company Ecopetrol SA and a unit of Total SA.  
 BP is a partner with the state oil company in Venezuela’s
Petroperija, Boqueron and Petromonagas ventures.  
 BP discovered offshore four gas fields south of Ho Chi Minh
City in Vietnam in the early 1990s, they became part of the $1.3
billion Nam Con Son project, which includes a pipeline and gas-
fired power station.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stanley Reed  in London at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BP CEO Tony Hayward agreed last month to set up a $20 billion compensation fund for victims of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Saud Masud, head of Middle East research at UBS AG, speaks about possible interest from the region's sovereign wealth funds in BP Plc.
     He talks with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connection." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Peter McGuire, managing director at CWA Global Markets Pty, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for BP Plc as the company seeks cash to meet the costs of the worst oil spill in U.S. history. 
     BP is considering selling fields in Colombia, Venezuela and Vietnam, a person with knowledge of the matter said. BP shares have dropped 49 percent since the April 20 blowout that sank the Deepwater Horizon rig, killing 11 workers. McGuire, speaking from Sydney, also discusses his forecast for crude oil prices. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
