-- BP's Oil-Collecting Effort Delayed as High Waves Hamper Vessel Connection
-- Joe Carroll
-- 2010-07-05T16:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/bp-s-oil-collecting-effort-delayed-as-high-waves-hamper-vessel-connection.html

          
          
             Waves as high as six feet (1.8
meters) may persist for most of this week off the Louisiana
coast, forcing  BP Plc  to postpone already-delayed efforts to
double the amount of oil being captured from a leaking Gulf of
Mexico well.  
 Wave heights in the area of the Gulf that includes BP’s
Macondo well are expected to average from 3 feet to 6 feet
through July 8, the National Weather Service said yesterday on
its  website .  
 The Helix Producer I, a floating platform that can gather
25,000 barrels of crude a day, can’t hook into subsurface
equipment connected to the well on the sea floor until wave
heights decline to 3 feet or less, said Bryan Ferguson, a
spokesman for London-based BP. High waves kicked up by Hurricane
Alex last week, followed by a 6-foot chop during the weekend,
made it impossible to make the link, he said.  
 “All the subsea hardware is in place but they’re waiting
for the sea state to calm down,” Ferguson said yesterday in a
telephone interview from Houston.  
 The delay is the latest setback in London-based BP’s
efforts to halt the worst oil spill in U.S. history. The
disaster began April 20 when explosions and fire aboard the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig killed 11 workers, triggering
leaks in the well a mile below the surface that fouled beaches,
killed wildlife and shut a swath of federally controlled fishing
grounds that cover an area the size of Nebraska.  
 Rising Costs  
 BP has spent $3.1 billion so far on cleanup and legal
claims from the spill, the company said in a statement today.
Shares closed 3.5 percent higher in London trading.  
 The owner of the Helix Producer I,  Helix Energy Solutions
Group Inc.  of Houston, is awaiting calmer seas before the 24-
year-old vessel can connect a tube to a buoy 300 feet under
water that is linked to the well through a pipe, Ferguson said.  
 The vessel has been on site above the wellhead since June
27 and has the capacity to double the amount of crude being
captured by a pair of vessels already connected to the well.  
 The Macondo field, which holds an estimated 50 million
barrels of crude, has spewed millions of gallons of oil into the
sea since the April 20 catastrophe.  
 BP, the largest oil and natural-gas producer in the gulf,
said on its  website  yesterday that since the spill began it has
collected the equivalent of 607,400 barrels of crude. At current
prices, that amount of crude has a value of about $46 million.  
 Partners Slump  
 BP and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , owners of the largest
stakes in the Macondo project, have each lost about half their
market value since the catastrophe. Tokyo-based  Mitsui & Co. ,
which holds an indirect stake in the well, has declined about 33
percent.  
 Transocean Ltd. , the Geneva-based owner of the sunken rig,
has tumbled 48 percent since the disaster. Offshore drilling in
the Gulf of Mexico has come to near-standstill in the past 10
weeks after the Obama administration imposed a six-month
moratorium on exploration in seas deeper than 500 feet.  
 The ban was overturned on June 22 by a federal judge in New
Orleans and Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  last week
indicated he may issue a revised moratorium.  
 The disaster is under investigation by the U.S. Coast
Guard, Interior Department, Justice Department, U.S.  Chemical
Safety and Hazard  Investigation Board and several House and
Senate committees.  
 Cement Plugs  
 BP and contractors that included Transocean and  Halliburton
Co.  were in the process of sealing the well about 40 miles from
the Louisiana coast with cement plugs when the rig was rocked by
two explosions and caught fire.  
 Helix suspended oil production from its Phoenix development
in the gulf so the Helix Producer I could be disconnected and
made available for BP’s containment effort. The vessel helped
resurrect  Chevron Corp. ’s Typhoon development after Hurricane
Rita flipped a $250 million platform in 2005, prompting Chevron
to abandon the field. Helix acquired the reserves and renamed
the field Phoenix.  
 Connecting the Helix Producer I will allow BP to collect
40,000 to 53,000 barrels a day, accounting for most of the
leaking oil, according to government estimates. A U.S. panel
commissioned to study the flow rate has said 35,000 to 60,000
barrels daily may be gushing from the well.  
 Separately, tests continued yesterday on a Taiwanese
skimming ship called A Whale that can collect up to 500,000
barrels of crude a day, Ferguson said. The ship, which is longer
than three U.S. football fields, was in the area above the
wellhead yesterday amidst a plume of crude, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. secretary of the interior Ken Salazar. Photographer: Jay Westcott/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
