-- Brazil State Bank Rejects Calls to Curb Record Lending as Economy Expands
-- Laura Price
-- 2010-07-05T20:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/brazil-state-bank-s-chief-coutinho-rejects-calls-to-curb-record-lending.html

          
          
             Brazil’s state development bank
President  Luciano Coutinho  rejected criticism that record
lending is placing a burden on the central bank to keep
inflation in check and slowing the reduction of public debt.  
 Coutinho said lending at the bank, known as BNDES, which
rose 41 percent in the first five months of the year to 46
billion reais ($25.9 billion), is helping increase investment
and boost production in Latin America’s largest economy, which
is needed to keep  prices stable .  
 “Going forward, our expectation is to share the burden
between BNDES and the market,” Coutinho said in a July 2
interview in Paris. “But we need to do that gradually. If BNDES
pulls out abruptly, the cost of capital for investment will
increase a lot.”  
 Record BNDES lending at interest rates lower than the
market’s is drawing increasing criticism as policy makers seek
to slow inflation amid forecasts the economy will expand this
year at the fastest pace in decades. Fitch Ratings said on June
28 that BNDES’s credit expansion is putting pressure on policy
makers. Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles , in an
interview with Valor Economico newspaper published today, said
that the development bank’s lending may push rates higher
because it reduces the efficiency of monetary policy.  
 Quasi-Fiscal Stimulus  
 The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
November rose 3 basis points to 11.07 percent at 5:15 p.m. local
time. The January 2011 yield, the most traded on the Sao Paulo
BM&F futures exchange today, rose 1 basis point to 11.32
percent. The real slipped 0.4 percent to 1.7799 per dollar
today, from 1.7721 Friday.  
 Brazil’s economy will expand 7.2 percent this year after
contracting 0.2 percent in 2009, according to the median
forecast of about 100 economists in a central bank survey today.  
 “The continued quasi-fiscal stimulus through the BNDES is
contributing to high credit growth,”  Shelly Shetty , head of
Latin America in Fitch’s Sovereigns team, wrote in a report.
It’s “placing an additional burden on monetary policy to curb
excess domestic demand pressures and preventing a faster
reduction in the gross general government debt burden.”  
 Fiscal impact  
 BNDES lending has a positive fiscal impact because tax
revenue resulting from increased output is higher than the
subsidies on the loans, said Coutinho, who ruled out an increase
in the bank’s 6-percent long-term interest rates, known as TJLP.  
 “If you add to TJLP risk spreads, other spreads, the rate
goes up to 8.5, 9, 10 percent,” he said. “It’s a very high
real interest rate for the long-term investment, then there’s no
reason for me to increase TJLP.”  
 Brazil’s policy makers, led by Meirelles, raised the
country’s main overnight rate to 10.25 percent on June 9, the
second consecutive increase since April.  
 BNDES, based in Rio de Janeiro, will present a proposal to
the central bank and finance ministry to share lending with
private banks, Coutinho said in Paris, where he attended an
Economist conference last week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Price  in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        