-- BT, Union Resume Pay Talks as Strike Ballot Is Cancelled on Legal Advice
-- Jonathan Browning
-- 2010-07-05T17:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/bt-union-resume-pay-talks-as-strike-ballot-is-cancelled-on-legal-advice.html

          
          
             BT Group Plc, the U.K.’s biggest
fixed-line phone company, will resume pay talks with the
 Communication Workers Union  after a strike ballot was cancelled
because of legal technicalities.  
 “The ballot has been cancelled following legal advice
which clearly outlined that under the notoriously restrictive
trade union laws in the U.K. certain technical breaches would
potentially invalidate the ballot,” the union said in a
statement today.  
 BT said in a separate statement it wants to meet the union
for further negotiations to “resolve this matter.” The CWU
said it will take up the offer whilst “taking all necessary
steps to allow a re-ballot as soon as practically possible if
negotiations are unsuccessful.”  
 CWU, which represents more than 50,000 BT staff, was
scheduled to announce the results of a strike ballot today after
the labor group rejected BT’s revised pay offer. The CWU is
battling BT Chief Executive Officer  Ian Livingston , who has
slashed jobs to combat falling sales amid the economic slowdown.  
 BT, facing its first strike in 23 years, had asked managers
to stand by to help fix telephone services and field customer
calls, according to two people with knowledge of the company’s
plans. They declined to be identified as the preparations are
confidential.  
 “BT employees have endured thousands of job losses and a
year of pay freezes,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at
Sanford C Bernstein in London. “While senior executives are
being awarded base salary increases of between 5 percent and 8
percent, they are not getting their share of the pie.”  
 Revised Pay Deal  
 The CWU union rejected a revised pay deal that offered
employees a 5.1 percent  increase in pay  over 21 months, with a 2
percent rise from April 2010, and 3 percent boost in January
2011.  Andy Kerr , CWU deputy general secretary, said at the time
the offer was “materially unchanged” from previous proposals.  
 “The legal technicalities on which this ballot has been
cancelled again raise questions over the right to strike and the
extremely restrictive trade union laws that exist in the UK,”
Kerr said today. “The law, in our view, appears to be outdated
when it comes to the provision of information.”  
 The strike would have been the first national industrial
action at BT since 1987, according to the CWU, whose members
work in engineering, call center and retail positions.  
 BT said “there were procedural issues regarding the ballot
that we raised from the start and the union have now accepted
this to be the case.”  
 Investment Expenses  
 A higher pay offer would probably slow BT’s planned 2.5
billion-pound ($3.8 billion) rollout of high-speed Internet
broadband, Bienenstock said. BT might delay the build-out to
“smooth out” higher investment expenses, she said.  
 BT, based in London, said in May it will build a fiber
network serving two-thirds of U.K. homes by 2015. The company
previously had said it would spend 1.5 billion pounds to reach
40 percent of homes by 2012 and catch up with rivals in high-
speed Internet.  
 “An amicable agreement is in everyone’s interest and the
withdrawal of the ballot provides both sides with a window of
opportunity in which to reach such an agreement,” BT said
today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        