-- Calderon's Party Unseats Opposition PRI in Three Mexican State Elections
-- Jonathan J. Levin
-- 2010-07-05T19:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/calderon-s-party-unseats-opposition-pri-in-three-mexican-state-elections.html

          
          
             Allies of Mexican President  Felipe Calderon  did better than polls had forecast in gubernatorial
elections yesterday, halting the main opposition party’s
momentum before presidential elections are held in 2012.  
 An alliance between Calderon’s  National Action Party  and
other factions unexpectedly beat the  Institutional Revolutionary
Party , or PRI, in Oaxaca, Puebla and Sinaloa states, incomplete
official results show. The PRI unseated their opponents in the
smaller states of Aguascalientes, Tlaxcala and Zacatecas. The
six other governorships decided yesterday didn’t change hands.  
 The PRI, which ruled Mexico for 71 years until 2000, lost
in states that were its longtime bastions of power, said  George Grayson , a professor of government at the College of William &
Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia. That will hurt the party, which
won legislative elections last year and leads in polls to
recapture the presidency in 2012, he said.  
 “The PRI took it on the chin,” Grayson said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City.  
 The Mexican peso declined for a sixth straight day, falling
0.1 percent to 13.0927 per U.S. dollar at 2:34 p.m. New York
time.  
 Calderon’s PAN, a pro-business party, formed an alliance
with the Party of the Democratic Revolution, known as PRD, in a
bid to a block a PRI victory in five states. Calderon defeated
the PRD’s  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  by less than a percentage
point in 2006. The parties disagree on a range of issues, from
abortion to opening the energy industry to private investment.  
 Population Breakdown  
 The states that the National Action Party alliance won are
larger than the states it lost, helping the PAN increase the
total population it governs by more than 30 percent, said
 Josefina Vazquez Mota , head of the PAN in the lower house of
Congress.  
 The PRI was favored to win in Sinaloa and Puebla states
before yesterday’s vote, according to polls by newspaper
Reforma. The parties were tied in Oaxaca state.  
 PRI officials said they fared well in the election.
Preliminary official results and exit polls show the party in
control of 19 of Mexico’s 31 states. Final results are still
being calculated.  
 The PRI unseated the PAN in Tlaxcala and Aguascalientes
states, and took power from the PRD in Zacatecas state, early
results showed. It also held onto power in Chihuahua,
Tamaulipas, Durango, Hidalgo, Quintana Roo and Veracruz states.  
 Political Force  
 “These elections confirm that the PRI is the biggest
political force in the country,”  Beatriz Paredes , the party’s
head, told reporters in comments broadcast on Milenio
Television.  
 The results will help break the PRI’s momentum ahead of the
2012 vote, said the PAN’s Vazquez Mota.  
 “A new electoral panorama has been drawn,” Vazquez Mota,
who was education minister under Calderon, said in a telephone
interview. “The PRI’s claim that they would sweep the elections
didn’t come true.”  
 The states in which the PAN prevailed represent 11 percent
of Mexico’s population and 7.1 percent of gross domestic
product, while the states in which the PRI won represent 3
percent of the population and 2.7 percent of GDP, according to
the  national statistics agency .  
 Court Challenge  
 The PAN plans to challenge the results in Durango and
Veracruz in an electoral court,  Jose Espina , the party’s chief
election coordinator, said in an interview. The PRI won in
Durango by 1.7 percentage points with 90 percent of the vote
counted and won in Veracruz by 2.9 points with 88 percent of the
vote counted, according to official results.  
 The PAN will accuse the current PRI governors in Durango and
Veracruz of illegally using public resources to fund the party’s
candidates, Espina said. The PAN may also challenge election
results in Aguascalientes and Hidalgo states, he said. It won’t
officially go to the courts until after July 7, he said.  
 The PAN is trailing in polls for the July 2012 presidential
election.  Enrique Pena Nieto , governor of the State of Mexico
and a PRI member, is the leading candidate, according to a poll
released June 14 by Mexico City-based polling group Consulta
Mitofsky. Pena Nieto has 25 percent support of those surveyed
compared with 6 percent for Lopez Obrador, his closest rival.  
 Yesterday’s elections were overshadowed by rising violence
before the vote, especially along the U.S. border where gangs
have been fighting to control the nation’s drug trade. The PRI
gubernatorial candidate in Tamaulipas state,  Rodolfo Torre Cantu , was assassinated June 28. A mayoral candidate was shot
dead in the same state in May. Last week, a headless body was
found outside the home of another mayoral hopeful.  
 Violent Incidents  
 Several incidents of violence occurred while polls were
open yesterday. The brother of Trinidad Pacheco Diaz, a PAN
candidate for mayor in Chihuahua state, was killed by gunmen,
the Interior Ministry said in an e-mailed statement. In Durango,
an armed group  shut down  a polling station, Milenio reported on
its website.  
 Egidio Torre, who became candidate in Tamaulipas after his
brother was killed, cast his ballot wearing a bullet-proof vest
under his white button-down shirt.  
 Mexico has turned increasingly violent since Calderon came
to office in December 2006 vowing to fight drug and people
traffickers. More than 22,000 people have been killed in Mexico
in violence related to the drug war since the crackdown began,
according to the U.S. State Department.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The PRI was forecast to win in Sinaloa and Puebla states  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Mexico's president Felipe Calderon. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Mexico's president Felipe Calderon. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
