-- Carrefour Said to Seek Buyers for Three Southeast Asia Units
-- Cathy Chan
-- 2010-07-06T02:36:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/carrefour-said-to-seek-buyers-for-southeast-asia-units-may-get-1-billion.html

          
          
             Carrefour SA , the world’s second-
biggest retailer, plans to exit Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand,
and is seeking offers for its operations in the Southeast Asian
countries, said four people familiar with the matter.  
 Carrefour  has approached potential buyers and may ask for
bids by early September, said two of the people, who declined to
be identified because the sale process isn’t public. The
combined operations may fetch $800 million to $1 billion, they
said.  Florence Baranes-Cohen , spokeswoman for Paris-based
 Carrefour , declined to comment.  
 The retailer will consider selling the units separately as
potential buyers may not be interested in bidding for all three
combined, according to two of the people. Carrefour’s Thai
business may have a value of $500 million to $600 million, while
the Malaysian and Singapore operations may be valued at $350
million to $400 million, the people said.  Carrefour  plans to
retain its units in China and Indonesia, they said.  
 “It’s a positive move, in line with what the company has
been doing,”  Fabio Fazzari , an analyst at Equita Sim in Milan,
said by telephone. “The new management is more focused on non-
capital intensive retail. What they’ve been seeking to do for
about a year now is get rid of all underperforming assets.”  
 Tesco Plc , the U.K.’s largest supermarket chain, Japan’s
 Aeon Co. , Hong Kong’s  Dairy Farm International Holdings Ltd.  and
Thailand’s  Big C Supercenter Pcl  may be putting in a bid, three
of the people familiar with the matter said. South Korea’s Lotte
Group was earlier approached to make a bid, they said.  
 Aeon, Tesco, Lotte  
 Aeon spokesman Eiichi Yamatani declined to comment, saying
Japan’s second-largest retailer is “checking the situation.”
 Zhuang Nanbin , vice president for corporate affairs at Tesco
China, wouldn’t comment on “market rumors.”  
 Both Lancy Ng, spokeswoman for Singapore-listed Dairy Farm,
and Pimwanich Poolkasem, head of investor relations at Big C,
declined to comment in phone interviews today.  
 Lotte Group  isn’t considering a purchase of Carrefour’s
assets,  Lee Byung Hee , a Seoul-based spokesman, said by phone.
Among Lotte Group’s affiliates are Lotte Shopping Co., South
Korea’s biggest department-store operator, and Lotte Chilsung
Beverage Co.  
 Carrefour is “obliged” to listen to offers for its
businesses in markets where leadership is unattainable, Chief
Executive Officer  Lars Olofsson  told shareholders in May. Asia
was Carrefour’s smallest market by  sales in 2009 , accounting for
about 7.5 percent of the total, according to the company’s
website. France was the biggest, generating 43 percent, followed
by the rest of Europe at 36 percent.  
 China, Indonesia  
 Carrefour plans to open 22 hypermarkets and 140 discount
stores in China this year, Olofsson said in May. The retailer
also intends to add 13 stores in Indonesia, where it recently
sold a 40 percent stake to Trans Corp., a unit of Para Group.  
 Carrefour this year agreed to sell 40 percent of its
Indonesian business to Trans Corp., forming a strategic
partnership in the country. It didn’t disclose the price.  
 The retailer may opt for a franchise model in India, and
plans to open its first wholesale outlet in New Delhi in the
next few months,  Jean Noel Bironneau , managing director of
operations in the South Asian nation, said in May.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Carrefour CEO Lars Olofsson  
                       
                         
                           Fabrice Dimier/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Carrefour CEO Lars Olofsson at a news conference in Levallois, France. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Carrefour CEO Lars Olofsson at a news conference in Levallois, France. Photographer: Fabrice Dimier/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Shoppers exit a Carrefour store in Bangkok. Photographer: Udo Weitz/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
