-- Chalco Will Seek to Raise Funds Through Bank Loans After Share Sale Delay
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-06T08:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/chalco-extends-deadline-for-planned-private-placement-of-a-shares-by-year.html

          
          
             Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , China’s
largest maker of the metal, will seek bank loans after an equity
market decline forced it to delay share sale plans.  
 The deadline for a planned sale of yuan-denominated shares
in China would be pushed back by a year from Aug. 23, the
Beijing-based company said today in a statement to the Shanghai
stock exchange. Chalco, as the company is known, had earlier won
approval from the China Securities Regulatory Commission to sell
as many as 1 billion shares.  
 China’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  has declined 26
percent this year, entering a bear market, as the government
introduced measures to curb property prices and the European
sovereign debt crisis roiled markets globally. Aluminum prices
have dropped below the costs of production, putting pressure on
smelters, Chalco President Luo Jianchuan said last month.  
 “The current market conditions are not favorable for the
share sale and the company will seek bank loans,” Shen Hui, a
spokeswoman, said by phone from Beijing today.  
 Chalco  rose 4.9 percent to close at HK$5.99 in Hong Kong,
narrowing this year’s decline to 30 percent. In Shanghai trading,
the stock rose 1.8 percent to 8.74 yuan, taking this year’s drop
to 40 percent.  
 Chalco is increasing capital expenditure by 36 percent to
14.6 billion yuan, Chairman Xiong Weiping said on March 30. The
company returned to a profit last quarter as it restarted plants
and metal prices rose.  
 Total liabilities gained 8 percent to 84.9 billion yuan in
the first quarter, with long-term borrowings at 24.8 billion
yuan, according to Chalco’s  earnings report . The company sold 5
billion yuan of one-year bonds on the domestic interbank market
on June 17 and 3 billion yuan of three-year bonds in March.  
 Aluminum futures rose 0.6 percent to 14,890 yuan a metric
ton in Shanghai at 3 p.m.  
 -- Xiao Yu  and  Zhe Huang . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Andrew Hobbs .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net ;
Zhe Huang in Beijing at 
 zhuang37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        