-- Chile Reports Fastest Economic Growth in Five Years on Retail, Transport
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-07-05T14:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/chile-reports-fastest-economic-growth-in-five-years-on-retail-transport.html

          
          
             Chile’s economy  grew at the fastest
annual pace in almost five years in May as the retail, utility,
transportation and communications industries helped the country
recover from February’s devastating earthquake.  
 Economic activity expanded 7.1 percent in May from a year
earlier and a seasonally adjusted 1.4 percent from April, the
central bank said today on its  website . Economists had forecast
annual growth of 5.3 percent, according to the median estimate
of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The larger-than-forecast jump, the fastest since a 7.2
percent annual expansion in June 2005, cements expectations that
the central bank will continue to increase interest rates this
month after raising rates in June for the first time since
September 2008,  Jorge Selaive , chief economist at BCI Corredor
de Bolsa in Santiago, said in a note to investors today.  
 “These growth figures continue to put pressure on the
central bank before the next meeting on interest rates, where we
think an increase of 50 basis points is guaranteed,” Selaive
said.  
 The Chilean peso fell 0.1 percent to 537.85 per U.S. dollar
as of 10:24 a.m. New York time, from 537.15 on July 2. It
earlier reached 534.38 per dollar, the strongest since June 23.  
 Chile’s economy continues to recover from an 8.8 magnitude
earthquake on Feb. 27 that caused almost $30 billion in damage
by toppling roads, destroying ports and shutting down factories.  
 Earthquake Recovery  
 Industrial output in May increased for the first time since
February, climbing 4.2 percent from a year earlier, the National
Statistics Institute said June 30. Retail sales jumped 19.1
percent from a year earlier, supermarket sales rose 7.2 percent
and industrial sales increased by 0.5 percent.  
 “Economic activity in Chile has surpassed not only levels
seen before the earthquake, but also levels seen before the
subprime crisis,”  Rodrigo Aravena , an economist with Banchile
Inversiones, said in a telephone interview from Santiago today.  
 Chile’s economy has been “surprisingly” dynamic following
the temblor, central bank President  Jose De Gregorio  said July
2.  
 “From a macroeconomic perspective, although reconstruction
still must be done and some companies still are having problems,
things on the whole are recovering,” he said in a speech to
Chile’s Mining Society Sonami in Santiago.  
 The economy will grow 4 percent to 5 percent this year as
consumer prices rise 3.8 percent, the bank said June 16 in its
quarterly monetary policy  report .  
 Rate Outlook  
 Chile’s central bank probably will continue to raise
borrowing costs after lifting its benchmark rate by half a
percentage point to 1 percent in June, De Gregorio said.  
 The median forecast of 36 traders and investors in a June
22 central bank survey showed the bank will lift the overnight
rate a half-point this month to 1.5 percent.  
 Policy makers at the central bank probably will debate
increasing the benchmark rate by 50 basis points or 75 basis
points, to 1.5 percent or 1.75 percent, at the July meeting,
Banchile’s Aravena said today.  
 “If general inflation increases more than expected, the
central bank could increase rates by 0.75 percentage point,” he
said. The median of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for
prices to climb 0.2 percent in June from May.  
 Annual inflation in May accelerated to 1.5 percent, from
0.9 percent in April. The central bank targets inflation of 3
percent plus or minus a percentage point. Prices in the
inflation forwards market imply inflation will rise to 3.7
percent this year, according to Banco Santander SA prices.  
 The three-month interest-rate swap rate rose 12 basis points
today to 1.77 percent, the highest since June 11, and the six-
month rate jumped nine basis points to 2.3 percent as traders
priced in a faster trajectory for central bank rate increases.  
 Chile’s National Statistics Institute will publish June
inflation figures on July 8.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net  or
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        