-- China to Keep Lead Over India in Mergers, Takeovers, JPMorgan's Marin Says
-- Cathy Chan
-- 2010-07-05T10:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/china-to-keep-lead-over-india-in-purchases-mergers-jpmorgan-s-marin-says.html

          
          
             China is likely to remain Asia’s
biggest market for mergers and acquisitions as companies in the
world’s third-largest economy expand and seek takeovers to tap
new markets, said  Todd Marin , head of investment banking for
Asia excluding Japan at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 “M&A activity involving China will expand as there are
more corporates across more industries evaluating M&A
opportunities and actively pursuing transactions than ever
before,” Marin said in an interview on July 2. “While China is
driving much of the activity, M&A activity is fairly well
diversified across markets including Australia, Southeast Asia,
and India.”  
 China accounted for 36 percent of the $242.2 billion in
deals in the Asia-Pacific region excluding Japan this year as of
July 2, and had a total of more than $100 billion in each of the
previous three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Transactions worth $39.4 billion so far this year in India has
surpassed the South Asian nation’s 2009 tally, the data showed.  
 In India, “there will be some big deals, but we expect
that the majority of the activity will come from the large
corporates that have traditionally been active in M&A,” the 48-
year-old banker said in the interview in Hong Kong. He joined
JPMorgan in 1989 and moved to Asia from New York in 2002 to head
the region’s M&A business.  
 Advisory Rankings  
 The New York-based company ranks second among advisers on
takeovers in the Asia-Pacific region excluding Japan this year,
according to Bloomberg data as of July 2. China International
Capital Corp. is the lead adviser in China on acquisitions,
followed by UBS AG and JPMorgan, the data show.  
 Across the region, acquisitions in the airline, natural
resource, automobile and logistics industries in 2010 may
outpace the number of deals in other sectors, Marin said.  
 Since the third quarter of last year, deals in the region
have been “increasingly diversified across the spectrum in
terms of geography and industry,” he said. Transactions this
year have included the gold mining, phone services, auto,
health-care and financial industries.  
 JPMorgan advised CNOOC Ltd., China’s biggest offshore oil
explorer, on a transaction to invest $3.1 billion for a stake in
Argentine oil producer Bridas Corp. The two largest transactions
announced so far this year in the Asia-Pacific region are
KazakhGold Group Ltd.’s $9.4 billion deal to take over parent
OAO Polyus Gold and Bharti Airtel Ltd.’s $9 billion purchase of
the African assets of Zain.  
 Southeast Asia  
 Southeast Asia will get in the spotlight for mergers and
acquisitions in the next six months as countries including
Indonesia and Malaysia focus on natural resource and foodstuffs
production, and economic growth is stable, Marin said. Southeast
Asia recorded mergers and acquisitions worth $40.8 billion this
year, Bloomberg data shows.  
 “Based on our current book of activity and client dialogue,
as you role the tape forward through the end of the year, we
would expect more activity out of Southeast Asia,” Marin said.
“We hope to be announcing a few things before the end of the
year.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        