-- China Car Sales Growth Slows to 10.9%, Adding to Signs Economy Is Cooling
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-05T09:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/china-s-weaker-growth-in-car-sales-services-adds-to-signs-economy-cooling.html

          
          
             China’s auto sales grew at a slower
pace in June and a services-industry index slid to a 15-month
low, adding to signs that the  economy  leading the world recovery
is cooling.  
 Passenger-car purchases rose 10.9 percent from a year
earlier, down from May’s 25 percent gain, the China Automotive
Technology & Research Center said today. The services-industry
measure fell to 55.6 from 56.4, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics said in an e-mailed  statement .  
 Today’s data adds to weaker numbers in June for
manufacturing indexes and a second measure of the services
industry after the government cracked down on property
speculation and as the effects of stimulus measures fade. A
slowing economy could lead officials to delay returning to pre-
crisis policies.  
 “It looks like growth will slow to 8 percent in the fourth
quarter of this year with risks on the downside,” said  Paul Cavey , an economist with Macquarie Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“The government will be worried” at that point and may loosen
policies, he added.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.8 percent to close at a
15-month low, extending this year’s decline to 28 percent.  
 Yuan Forwards  
 Non-deliverable yuan forwards fell 0.1 percent as of 5:30
p.m. in Hong Kong as investors pared bets for gains against the
dollar in the next 12 months. The contracts suggest the Chinese
currency will climb 1.5 percent. The yuan fell 0.1 percent to
6.7762 per dollar, snapping three days of gains.  
 HSBC’s purchasing managers’ index for services covers more
than 400 companies in transport and communication, financial
intermediation, business services, computing and information
technology, hotels and restaurants.  
 The latest reading “reflects the effect of property market
tightening measures,” said  Qu Hongbin ,  a  Hong Kong-based
economist at HSBC. “This, combined with the moderating
manufacturing production, implies the economy is cooling off
sequentially.”  
 China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy, expanded
11.9 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, the
fastest pace in almost three years. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
last week cut its 2010 growth forecast to 10.1 percent from 11.4
percent.  
 ‘Very Complicated’  
 Baosteel Group Corp. , China’s second-biggest steelmaker,
said today that demand for the metal, including from auto makers,
has weakened. Sales of cars, sport-utility vehicles and
multipurpose vehicles rose to 839,228 last month, the China
automotive center said.  
 Premier  Wen Jiabao  reiterated the government will both stay
flexible and maintain continuity in setting policy amid “very
complicated” situations at home and abroad, in a statement
posted on a government website yesterday.  
 The government focused in the first half of the year on
cutting the risk of  property-price  bubbles, using tools such as
increased down-payment requirements, and restraining consumer
prices.  
 “Property market transactions have slowed too much -- the
measures have  not only stopped speculation but also stopped
upgraders and first-time buyers,” Macquarie’s Cavey said. “So
construction will slow and the government will therefore have to
backtrack” on some of its tightening policies, he said.  
 Austerity measures in European economies could also pose a
threat to export demand in the second half of this year.  
 Crisis Policies  
 China is part-way through exiting crisis policies, after
raising banks’ reserve requirements, scrapping the yuan’s
peg to the dollar and setting a reduced target in 2010 for  new
lending  after a record increase in credit in 2009. Benchmark
interest rates are yet to rise.  
 Revised figures released today showed that the nation’s
current-account surplus was higher than previously estimated in
the first quarter, at $53.6 billion, from $40.9 billion reported
in May.  
 Wei Fengchun ?a Beijing based economist at China Securities
Co., said the economy was coming in for a “soft landing.” The
government would shift during the second half of the year to
tackling long-term challenges such as the gaps between the
incomes of rich and poor and urban and rural dwellers, Wei said
in an interview.  
 Meantime, Yin Zhongqing, vice chairman of the National
People’s Congress’s finance committee, said he was concerned
that government departments could overreact to any slowdown and
over-stimulate the economy, the Economic Observer reported today.  
 A media report on power usage also pointed to a moderation
in China’s expansion.  
 Heavy Industries  
 June consumption growth eased “sharply” on a high
comparison base last year and as demand from heavy industries
showed signs of slowing, Shanghai Securities News  said , citing
energy authorities it didn’t name. Demand growth in July and
August may also slow “significantly,” the newspaper said.  
 China’s property prices will likely see a correction in
about three months’ time, the Securities Times cited Land and
Resources Minister  Xu Shaoshi  as saying.  
 Last week, the government’s  manufacturing index  fell more
than economists forecast to the lowest level in 16 months,
excluding a Lunar New Year-affected February 2010. A non-
manufacturing index released by the Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing on July 3 slid to 57.4 from 62.7 in May.  
 -- Tian Ying ,  Sophie Leung , Diao Ying,  Nerys Avery ,  Paul Panckhurst . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst , Nerys Avery.  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6126 or
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Passenger-car purchases rose 10.9% from a year earlier  
                       
                         
                           Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg 
                         
                         China's premier Wen Jiabao. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     China's premier Wen Jiabao. Photographer: Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
