-- China Metal Recycling Will Accelerate Domestic Acquisitions, Chairman Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-05T08:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/china-metal-recycling-to-step-up-acquisitions-as-foreign-supplies-decline.html

          
          
             China Metal Recycling Holdings Ltd. ,
the nation’s biggest scrap metal recycler, plans to step up
domestic acquisitions as the global economic recovery reduces
supplies from overseas.  
 The company, which counts  Baosteel Group Corp.  and Jiangsu
Shagang Group Co. as customers, is seeking to buy major rivals
in China’s northern, middle and eastern areas to consolidate the
“much fragmented” market,  Chun Chi Wai , chairman and chief
executive, said in a phone interview, without giving details.  
 “We will focus on domestic recycling as China is having a
shortage of scrap steel and metals,” Chun said. “The
recovering U.S. and European economies will cut scrap shipments
available to China this year.”  
 China, the world’s biggest steelmaker, has urged its state-
owned mills to increase use of scrap to help reduce carbon
emissions from blast furnaces, Wuhan Iron & Steel Group said May
26. China Metal aims to boost its domestic market share by “a
few times” in three to five years, Finance Director Fung Kar
Lun said in the interview.  
 China Metal Recycling  rose 2.1 percent to close at HK$7.23
today in Hong Kong, narrowing this year’s decline to 15 percent.
The benchmark Hang Seng Index fell 0.3 percent.  
 Scrap-steel imports by China may fall to about 6 million
metric tons this year, from 14 million tons in 2009, because of
higher international prices amid the global recovery, Chun said.  
 Baosteel, China’s second-biggest steelmaker, hasn’t
imported any scrap for three to four months as international
prices were 300 yuan ($44) to 400 yuan a ton higher than
domestic prices, Chen Renhua, a manager in charge of scrap
purchasing, said May 26.  
 China Metal Recycling’s capital expenditure is estimated to
be HK$350 million ($45 million) this year, which will be mainly
used for acquisitions, Fung said. He didn’t disclose how much
will be spent on acquisitions in the next few years.  
 -- Helen Yuan  and  Wing-Gar Cheng . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Ang Bee Lin   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net 
Wing-Gar Cheng in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        