-- Consumption, Not Yuan, Is Key to Balanced Growth, WTO Ambassador Sun Says
-- Jennifer M. Freedman
-- 2010-07-05T11:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/china-s-consumption-not-yuan-key-to-fair-trade-wto-ambassador-sun-says.html

          
          
             China’s ability to boost domestic
demand rather than the value of the country’s currency is the
key to ensuring more balanced global economic growth, said  Sun Zhenyu , the Chinese ambassador to the World Trade Organization.  
 “The exchange rate itself is not a decisive factor in the
whole balance of world trade or world economic development,” he
said in a July 1 interview in Brussels. “The real issue here is
about China’s consumption, whether China has consumed enough or
spent enough, also whether the U.S. has saved enough.”  
 China, the world’s  fastest-growing  major economy, is
pressing companies to become more competitive and encouraging
greater domestic consumption to reduce its reliance on
investment and exports. It last month signaled an end to the
yuan’s peg to the dollar, adopted during the global crisis to
shield exporters. While retail spending is expanding, tens of
millions of  jobs  still depend on export industries such as
textiles, electronics and machinery.  
 The yuan’s two-year peg to the dollar ended on June 19 when
China said it would allow greater flexibility in the currency to
curb inflation and rebalance the economy away from exports. The
peg, at about 6.83 per dollar, had blunted the competitiveness
of Asia’s export-dependent nations.  
 The People’s Bank of China has allowed the yuan to gain 0.8
percent since then, and the currency is now allowed to trade by
up to 0.5 percent against the dollar either side of the so-
called central parity rate.  
 Profit Margin  
 The currency-policy change will hurt many small Chinese
exporters who already struggle to make ends meet, Sun said.  
 “For most of China’s exporters, particularly the smaller
private enterprises, their export profit margin is very low,”
he said. “Some of them have a profit margin of only 3 to 5
percent. This change of the exchange rate can affect them
negatively.”  
 China wants smaller exporters, particularly those in the
processing industry, to help offset the impact by becoming more
competitive and innovative, Sun said.  
 “We encourage our enterprises to really try to climb the
ladder, from the lower end to higher-grade products, to have
more contents in value-added and in technology and innovation
and also to improve the content of the processing industry,” he
said. “Many of the processing industries are at the lower end
and processing fees are very low and they aren’t really making
any profit.”  
 Trade Surplus  
 Chinese  shipments abroad  climbed 48.5 percent in May from a
year earlier and the trade surplus widened to the biggest in
seven months. The U.S.  trade deficit  with China reached $71
billion in the first four months of the year, up 5.7 percent
from the same period in 2009, U.S. government data show.  
 China’s trade surplus, which dropped $100 billion in both
2008 and 2009, “will continue to improve,” Sun said. “The
surplus is expected to drop by another $50 billion to $100
billion this year,” he said.  
 Sun said China’s decision to allow greater yuan flexibility
will help strengthen ties with governments including the U.S.,
where lawmakers such as Senator  Charles Schumer  have said the
pledge is just a “baby step” and that the U.S. stance against
China isn’t tough enough.  
 “Even if this is a small step, people should give
recognition to the efforts China is making,” Sun said. It’s a
country like a Cape-size oil tanker with 1.3 billion people and
a great number of poor people. It can’t move as fast or as
flexibly as a torpedo boat.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer M. Freedman  in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        