-- China's June Car Sales Growth Slows to 10.9% as Government Tightens Credit
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-05T04:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/china-june-passenger-car-sales-gains-10-9-pace-of-growth-slows-from-may.html

          
          
             China’s  passenger-car sales  growth
slowed in June as  inflation  accelerated, reducing consumers’
spending power in the world’s largest auto market.  
 Sales of cars, sport-utility vehicles and multipurpose
vehicles rose 10.9 percent from a year earlier to 839,228 last
month, the  China Automotive Technology & Research Center  said
today. That compares with 34 percent growth in April and 25
percent in May, according to the center.  
 China’s inflation rate accelerated in May to an annual 3.1
percent, the quickest in 19 months. Measures to slow the economy
may weigh on auto sales after government stimulus measures
boosted demand to a record last year, Tim Dunne, an analyst at
J.D. Power and Associates, wrote in a June 29 report.  
 “The government will continue its tightening measures to
cool down the economy in the second half of the year,” Dunne
said. “We therefore expect vehicle sales to slow to a more
sustainable pace following what has largely been incentive-
driven strong growth.”  
 China’s economy expanded 11.9 percent in the first quarter.
China International Capital Corp. has said it expects growth to
slow to 7.5 percent by the fourth quarter.  
 June’s increase in passenger-vehicle sales is the slowest
since the research center began publishing monthly data in April.
Passenger-car sales expanded 25.6 percent to 5.42 million, it
said.  
 Government Incentives  
 The China Association of Automobile Manufacturers will
publish separate June sales data later this month. Passenger-
vehicle sales in June 2009 rose 48 percent from a year earlier,
it reported at the time.  
 According to the association’s data, monthly sales have
risen more than 10.9 percent for 14 straight months through May.  
 China’s vehicle deliveries may rise 17 percent this year to
16 million, and annual demand for automobiles may eventually
exceed 30 million, according to the State Information Center.  
 Total vehicle sales, which include buses and trucks,
increased 14 percent last month to 1.13 million, the research
center said today. They rose 30.5 percent in the first half of
the year to 7.19 million.  
 China continued to lead the U.S. in total sales in the
first half, with U.S. deliveries rising to 5.6 million during
the period.  
 Production Disrupted  
 Production in China at Toyota Motor Corp.,  Honda Motor Co. 
and  Nissan Motor Co. , Japan’s three largest carmakers, was
disrupted in June as workers at Denso Corp. and other component
suppliers in the country went on strike for higher wages.  
 At least eight strikes since the middle of May forced
suppliers to Toyota, Honda and Nissan in China to raise wages,
raising carmakers’ costs.  
 Automakers continue to invest in China.  SAIC Motor Corp .,
the nation’s largest, said June 25 it aims to raise as much as
10 billion yuan ($1.48 billion) in a private share placement to
fund expansion.  
 The carmaker plans to sell 180,000 of its own-brand
vehicles this year, President  Chen Hong  said in March. That
compares with an overall sales target of 3 million for all SAIC-
made vehicles.  
 -- Tian Ying . Editors:  Ian Rowley ,  Terje Langeland   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7571 or
 ytian@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        