-- China Merchants Group Completes Purchase of Australia Pallet Pooler Loscam
-- Robert Fenner
-- 2010-07-05T07:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/china-merchants-group-completes-purchase-of-australia-pallet-pooler-loscam.html

          
          
             China Merchants Group , the 138-year-
old government-owned port operator, acquired Loscam Ltd. for an
undisclosed price, gaining control of Australia’s second-largest
supplier of wooden pallets used to move and store goods.  
 Management at  Loscam  will own a minority stake in the
business, the Melbourne-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today. The business was previously owned by its
executives and buyout firm Affinity Equity Partners.  
 The purchase makes China Merchants, which has $39 billion
in assets, the number one provider of reusable wooden pallets
and plastic produce bins in seven Asian nations including
Thailand, Indonesia and Singapore, the company said. Loscam
pallets are painted red compared with the blue of larger
Australian rival  Brambles Ltd.   
 “Loscam is a business which has enjoyed strong historical
growth, and it has the potential for significant future
growth,” China Merchants President  Fu Yuning  said in the
statement.  
 The sale price was at least A$650 million ($550 million),
the Age newspaper reported without saying where it got the
information. Matthew Mahon from Loscam’s external media adviser,
Royce, declined to confirm the sale price.  
 Loscam  was advised by Credit Suisse Group AG and Deutsche
Bank AG while Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit was the
adviser to China Merchants.  
 China Merchants’ businesses include stakes in Shanghai Port,
Shekou Containers Terminals Ltd., Haihong Coatings Co. and China
Merchants Bank. It was founded in 1872 according to Loscam’s
statement, which also provided the figure China Merchants’
assets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        