-- Money Rate Drops in China as Wen Targets `Relatively Fast' Economic Growth
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-05T09:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/china-s-money-market-rate-drops-as-wen-targets-relatively-fast-growth.html

          
          
             China’s  benchmark money-market  fell,
having last week dropped the most in four months, after Chinese
Premier Wen Jiabao pledged to pursue policies that will ensure
“steady and relatively fast growth” for the economy.  
 The government faces increasing “dilemmas” as the impact
of the global financial crisis is more severe than expected, Wen
said over the weekend. The central bank has pumped cash into the
financial system for six weeks to address a cash crunch that
drove the seven-day repurchase rate to a year-high of 3.28
percent on June 2. The yuan weakened for the first time in four
days on signs China will restrain appreciation.  
 “Banks’ cash availability eased after the central bank’s
money injections,” said Wang Yingtao, a Shanghai-based money
trader at Industrial Bank Co. “Policy makers won’t tighten
monetary policy because they see uncertainties in the economic
outlook. ”  
 The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures lending costs
between banks, slid three basis points to 2.58 percent in
Shanghai, according to a daily fixing rate by the National
Interbank Funding Center. It last week dropped 54 basis points,
or 0.54 percentage point. Wang said the rate may stay little
changed before Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.’s initial public
offering.  
 Agricultural Bank, the country’s largest lender by
customers, plans to raise as much as $20.1 billion by selling
stock in Shanghai and Hong Kong. It will set a final price for
its shares on July 7.  
 Yuan Declines  
 Government bonds gained, pushing the yield on the 2.53
percent note due in June 2015 a basis point lower to 2.62
percent. The price of the security rose 0.05 per 100 yuan face
amount to 99.59, the funding center data show.  
 Deputy central bank governor  Hu Xiaolian  said on July 3 big
moves in currencies hurt the global economy, signaling the
government is unlikely to allow rapid gains in the yuan
following calls in the U.S. and Europe for the currency to be
allowed to trade more freely. A nation’s current account balance
can be used as a “window” to watch if its exchange rate is at
an equilibrium level, she said.  
 “Market players have turned cautious because the comment
shows China won’t permit big appreciation in the short term,”
said  Liu Dongliang , a Shenzhen-based analyst at China Merchants
Bank Co., the country’s fifth-largest lender by market value.  
 The yuan declined 0.07 percent to 6.7758 per dollar, from
6.7711 at the end of last week, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The currency has strengthened 0.7 percent
since the  central bank  said June 19 it will allow greater
flexibility in the yuan, ending a two-year peg to the dollar.  
 Capital Inflows  
 The People’s Bank of China set the reference rate at 6.7733,
compared with 6.7720 on July 2. The currency is allowed to trade
by up to 0.5 percent against the dollar either side of the so-
called central parity rate.  
 Interest-rate and exchange-rate differentials were
incentives that attracted “continuous” foreign-capital inflows
into China, said  Deng Xianhong , deputy director of the nation’s
top currency regulator. His remarks were made in an interview
with the official People’s Daily newspaper and carried on the
State Administration of Foreign Exchange’s website.  
 “Continuous foreign-capital inflows drove up China’s
stocks and housing price, which in turn reinforced expectations
for the yuan to appreciate,” Deng was quoted as saying. “It
further helped entice foreign funds.”  
 -- Belinda Cao ,  Judy Chen . Editors:  James Regan ,  Sandy Hendry   
 To contact the Bloomberg news staff on this story:
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        