-- City of Kiev's Plan to Restructure Eurobonds Triggers Doubling in Yield
-- Daryna Krasnolutska
-- 2010-07-05T14:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/city-of-kiev-s-plan-to-restructure-eurobonds-triggers-doubling-in-yield.html

          
          
             Kiev is seeking to restructure $450
million of international bonds due in the next two years, a
person with knowledge of the matter in the Ukrainian capital
city’s administration said. The bonds tumbled, doubling yields.  
 Kiev is likely to restructure its $200 million of notes due
2011 and $250 million of bonds due 2012, while continuing to
meet interest payments, said the person, who declined to be
identified. The city council said it will make a full coupon
payment ahead of schedule tomorrow on the 2011 bond.  
 “The city once again confirms its ability to pay on time
and in full its debt obligations to creditors and continues to
form a positive image for the city of Kiev’s credit history,”
it said in a statement today.  
 Ukraine’s biggest city has suffered dwindling revenues
since the global credit crisis undermined investment and left
about 20 banks reliant on state aid, forcing the country to turn
to the International Monetary Fund for support in 2008. The IMF
said July 3 it agreed a $14.9 billion loan for Ukraine to
replace an existing program and the government this month plans
to sell its first Eurobonds since 2007 to help cover its deficit.  
 Kiev’s 2011 dollar bonds slid to 89.5 cents on the dollar,
lifting the yield by the most since March 2009 to as high as 25
percent from 12 percent July 2. The yield was at 20.4 percent as
of 4:53 p.m. in Kiev.  
 “We think the city council will consider a market-friendly
restructuring,” Kiev-based investment bank Dragon Capital said
in an e-mailed note today. “Given the preliminary nature of
such intentions, we do not expect the news to affect the
upcoming sovereign Eurobond placement, especially against the
backdrop of positive developments in talks with the IMF.”  
 ‘Weak Background’  
 Kiev will decide on the restructuring before mid-September
to allow time for the city council and the Finance Ministry to
approve it, the person said.  
 The city doesn’t have a problem making interest payments,
said the person familiar with the plans. Investors understand
“weak background” of city of Kiev’s financing since 2007 as
there was a massive “drop of revenues,” said  Luis Costa , an
emerging market strategist at Citigroup Inc., by phone today.  
 “If they come with friendly terms and eventually a full
exchange with no haircut, I don’t see a lot of potential for
further fallout for the curve or spillover into the sovereign
curve,” Costa said.  
 Meet Investors  
 Ukraine’s government plans to meet investors to prepare a
sale of Eurobonds, Finance Minister Fedir Yaroshenko said on
June 23. The cabinet picked  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Morgan Stanley 
and VTB Capital to lead sale, the Finance Ministry said on May
17. The country wants to sell $1.3 billion in Eurobonds this
year as part of a $4.3 billion package of borrowing that
includes international donors to cover the budget deficit.  
 “For Ukraine’s sovereign, Kiev city bond restructuring is
negative at the margin, despite the newly announced $14.9
billion IMF deal,” said  Tim Haaf , a portfolio manager at
Pacific Investment Management Co., in an interview today. “They
are starting a roadshow at the beginning of this week and
obviously this is very bad timing in the coming months.”  
 Ukraine’s government bonds fell, raising the yield on
dollar notes due 2013 to 7.66 percent from 7.48 percent, prices
on Bloomberg show. The cost to protect against Ukraine’s
government reneging on its debt using credit-default swaps
declined to 643.2 basis points from 654.1 on July 2, according
to CMA DataVision in London.  
 Standard & Poor’s raised Ukraine’s credit ratings on May 17
to B from B- following an agreement with Russia on lower prices
for imported natural gas. Kiev city bonds are rated B- by Fitch.  
 IMF Mission  
 Ukraine reached an agreement with a delegation from the  IMF 
on July 3 after the fund’s mission to the country approved
economic policies aimed at reducing the budget deficit. The
Washington-based lender’s Executive Board will make a final
decision by late July.  
 Kiev’s 2012 dollar bonds slid to as low as 84.5 from 93 on
July 2, while yields surged to 16.346 percent, Bloomberg data
show. The bonds were last priced at 89.5 cents, putting the
yield at 13.6 percent.  
 NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, Ukraine’s state-run oil and gas
company, announced it’s restructuring $1.6 billion of foreign
debt in November. The company exchanged $500 million of
Eurobonds and $1.1 billion of outstanding loans for $1.6 billion
of new 9.5 percent government guaranteed notes due 2014. In May,
Ukraine’s state-run railway operator Ukrzaliznytsya secured an
investor agreement to reschedule a $550 million syndicated loan.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        