-- Clinton Seeks to Allay Russia Reset Concern in Former Soviet-Bloc States
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2010-07-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/clinton-seeks-to-allay-russia-reset-concern-in-former-soviet-bloc-states.html

          
          
             Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
sought to rebuff criticism that the U.S. has sacrificed eastern
European democracies to improve relations with Russia during a
visit to five former Soviet-bloc countries.  
 Clinton offered investment to Ukraine’s energy industry,
reiterated plans to base a missile defense system in Poland, and
urged Armenia and Azerbaijan to make peace on the four-day
journey from the Carpathian Mountains to the Caspian Sea.  
 “We can walk and chew gum at the same time,” Clinton said
yesterday in the Georgian capital, Tbilisi. The Obama
administration’s “reset” of relations with Russia doesn’t mean
the U.S. condones the presence of Russian troops in two Georgian
separatist regions, she said.  
 A five-day war between Russia and U.S. ally Georgia in
August 2008 marked the low point in relations under then-
President  George W. Bush , who said “bullying and intimidation”
by Russia wouldn’t be tolerated. When Obama took office last
year, he set out to turn Russia into a partner that could help
the war effort in Afghanistan, back sanctions against Iran and
further his efforts to reduce nuclear weapons.  
 While Clinton praised the countries she visited for making
economic and political progress since the collapse of communism
two decades ago, she urged them to do more to protect human
rights and free speech.  
 ‘More Than Symbolic’  
 Azerbaijan and Georgia, links in a U.S.-backed “southern
energy corridor” from the Caspian Sea to Europe, are crucial
partners because of their proximity to Iran and Afghanistan,
said retired Air Force General  Charles Wald , a former deputy
commander of the U.S. European Command.  
 “This visit was more than symbolic,” Wald said by phone
from Washington. “We need the region strategically in a huge
way.”  
 Clinton made her first stop in Ukraine, where she told
President  Viktor Yanukovych  that U.S. energy companies would be
interested in investing in deepwater drilling, shale gas and
nuclear energy projects if his government improves the
investment climate.  
 Ukraine has moved closer to Russia since Yanukovych was
elected in February, replacing  Viktor Yushchenko  who had sought
to join the European Union and North Atlantic Treaty
Organization. In April, lawmakers extended the lease on a
Russian naval base, and Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
proposed unifying Ukraine’s state energy company with Moscow-
based OAO Gazprom.  
 The secretary of state’s next stop in Poland came after
Obama failed to attend the 70th commemoration of the start of
World War II in September and scrapped a Bush-era missile
defense plan on Polish soil. Now an alternative plan, using
existing technology, will speed up the stationing of interceptor
missiles in Poland, Clinton said in Krakow.  
 ‘Domestic Critics’  
 “Hillary’s primary audience was domestic critics in the
U.S. rather than the countries she visited,”  Fyodor Lukyanov ,
editor of Russia in Global Affairs magazine, said by phone from
Moscow. “There won’t be much of a reaction in Moscow to the
trip because Russians understand that Obama is under intense
pressure at home for reconciling with Russia.”  
 Clinton’s weekend visit to Armenia and Azerbaijan was the
first by a U.S. secretary of state since  James Baker  traveled to
the countries 18 years ago.  
 The two neighbors are deadlocked over Nagorno-Karabakh, a
region with a majority Armenian population that broke away from
Azerbaijan after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.  
 In Tbilisi, Clinton won the endorsement of the Russian
reset policy from President Mikheil Saakashvili , who called it
“the exactly right way” to move forward and said a modernized
Russia was good for Georgia.  
 “Frankly, I don’t see any difference in the strategic
approach to the region between Bush and Obama,” Wald said.
“It’s a little realpolitik going on here.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Tbilisi at  lkim3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. secretary of state Hillary Clinton. Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
