-- Clinton Condemns Georgia `Occupation' While Seeking Improved Russia Ties
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2010-07-05T14:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/clinton-defends-russia-reset-assails-occupation-of-two-georgian-regions.html

          
          
             Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
renewed a U.S. call for Russia to remove its troops from two
separatist Georgian regions even as she defended the Obama
administration’s policy of engagement with the Kremlin.  
 “We continue to call for Russia to abide by the August
2008 cease-fire commitment signed by President Saakashvili and
President Medvedev, including ending the occupation and
withdrawing Russian troops from South Ossetia and Abkhazia to
their pre-conflict positions,” Clinton told reporters in the
Georgian capital Tbilisi today, referring to the Georgian and
Russian leaders,  Mikheil Saakashvili  and  Dmitry Medvedev .  
 The U.S. can improve relations with Russia even as it
continues to oppose Russia’s decision to deploy troops in the
two regions, Clinton said. “We can walk and chew gum at the
same time,” she earlier told leaders of women’s organizations
in Tbilisi.  
 President  Barack Obama ’s “reset” in relations with Russia
has already yielded results in arms control and a joint position
on Iran sanctions, Clinton said on her final stop of a tour of
five countries that until two decades ago were under Soviet
domination. Better relations don’t stop the U.S. from
criticizing Russia, she said.  
 Economic ‘Rebuke’  
 The war between Russia and U.S. ally Georgia marked the low
point in relations under then-President  George W. Bush . The
conflict resulted in Russia strengthening military positions in
Abkhazia and South Ossetia and recognizing their independence
from Georgia.  
 “It’s a mistake to focus on the past,” Clinton said.
Georgia should avoid being “baited or provoked” by Russia and
concentrate on economic development and democracy building, she
said. “That is the rebuke no one can dispute.”  
 Saakashvili said that if the U.S. reset succeeds in making
Russia more open, his country will also benefit. He hailed
Obama’s stance on Russia’s military presence in Abkhazia and
South Ossetia, saying the U.S. leader was “the first to call a
spade a spade, to say it was an occupation.”  
 Clinton arrived in Georgia from the Armenian capital
Yerevan, where she urged Armenia and Azerbaijan to seek a
durable peace amid rising tensions. The two countries are
deadlocked over Nagorno-Karabakh, a majority-Armenian-populated
region that broke off from Azerbaijan after the collapse of the
Soviet Union in 1991. Troops have clashed at the 1994 cease-fire
line in the past month.  
 ‘Crushing the Myth’  
 “The U.S. is crushing the myth that it has lost influence
and interest in the region,” Alexander Rondeli, head of the
Tbilisi-based  Georgian Foundation for Strategic and
International Studies , said by telephone. “More U.S. aid for
Georgia can’t be ruled out.”  
 Russia considers Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan a zone of
“privileged interest” on the basis of historic, geographic and
cultural ties. Clinton’s visit to Armenia and Azerbaijan was the
first by a U.S. secretary of state since 1992. She started her
trip in Ukraine and Poland last week.  
 “Clinton has spent several days in this small region,”
Rondeli said. “That is a good message and strong signal that
the U.S. is securing its position in the region.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helena Bedwell  in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucian Kim  in Tbilisi at  lkim3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. secretary of state Hillary Clinton. Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
