-- CLSA's Wood Increases China `Overweight' on CSI 300 Decline, Trims India
-- Weiyi Lim
-- 2010-07-05T06:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/clsa-increases-overweight-in-chinese-equities-after-decline-in-csi-300.html

          
          
             CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets is raising
the “overweight” on  China stocks  in its relative-return
portfolio by 2 percentage points as the nation’s yuan-
denominated shares extended declines.  
 The brokerage is trimming its “double overweight” in
 India  by 1 percentage point and reducing its “small
overweight” in Taiwan by a similar move,  Christopher Wood , the
second-ranked strategist in Institutional Investor’s 2010 Asian
poll, said in his July 4 Greed & Fear report.  
 Chinese stocks traded on the nation’s domestic exchanges
are the worst performers in Asia this year, with the  Shanghai
Composite Index  tumbling 28 percent amid concern the
government’s policy tightening will dent the nation’s economic
growth. The CSI 300 Index has declined 30 percent and fell 0.6
percent to 2,520.17 as of 1:38 p.m. local time.  
 “The biggest reason for the move is that the  CSI 300 Index 
is now getting close to Greed & Fear’s targeted low of 2,300,”
the strategist wrote. “It is too late to ‘underweight’ China
for relative-return investors.”  
 The increase means investors should hold 24 percent of
their portfolio in China, compared with the 19.8 percent
weighting in the  MSCI Asia-Pacific excluding Japan Index  as of
June 30, according to report.  
 Wood last month raised his “overweight” for H shares, or
Chinese stocks traded in Hong Kong, by 1 percentage point after
China relaxed the yuan’s peg to the dollar.  
 The strategist had trimmed his “overweight” in  Taiwan’s
stocks  by the same amount, saying that yuan appreciation may
further threaten profit margins for Taiwanese exporters that are
already grappling with rising wages.  
 Wood also retained a “big underweight” in Australia and
kept his “structural overweights” in India, Indonesia and the
Philippines relative to the benchmark index, according to
yesterday’s report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        