-- Commodities `Price Relapse' May Last for Another Year, RBS's Moore Says
-- Chanyaporn Chanjaroen
-- 2010-07-05T14:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/commodities-price-relapse-may-last-for-another-year-rbs-s-moore-says.html

          
          
             Commodities are in the early stages
of a “price relapse” that may last through the first half of
next year, said  Nick Moore , head of commodity strategy at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  
 The Reuters/Jefferies CRB  Index  tracking 19 raw materials
slumped almost 9 percent in the first half of this year,
following last year’s 23 percent rally. Such declines have been
driven by macroeconomic concerns, Moore said today at a media
briefing in London.  
 “This is a classic mid-cycle correction price relapse,”
said the analyst, who has tracked commodities for more than two
decades. “Following a price boom, the supply side needs to
catch up and this phase usually lasts about 12 to 18 months. Now
we’re only in the third month. By this time next year,
commodities will be back as the must-have asset to have again.”  
 Investors lost 10.4 percent net in the second quarter, as
measured by the  S&P GSCI Total Return Index , the worst quarterly
performance in more than a year. That compared with a 4.7
percent return from U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch, while the MSCI Index
of Global Stocks lost 13 percent.  
 Moore said prices are likely to drop further during the
summer months in the Northern hemisphere, traditionally a period
of lower demand for commodities. Declining prices for industrial
metals, especially aluminum, are likely to trigger output cuts
at smelters that are producing at levels close to, or at, a
loss, he said.  
 Supply surpluses, high inventories and a slowdown in
imports into China, the biggest consumer of all industrial
metals, are among factors weighing on prices, Moore said.  
 He recommended that investors should allocate between 3
percent and 5 percent of their portfolios to commodities, and
favors mining equities, citing “good cash flows and attractive
valuations.”  
 Gold, having risen 10 percent this year and traded at a
record $1,265.30 an ounce last month, should be owned, Moore
said. “But the best of the price rise has likely been seen,”
he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in London at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        