-- Copper Shortage Looms as Codelco Sees Limits on Mines
-- Millie Munshi
-- 2010-07-06T18:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/copper-shortage-looms-in-2011-for-macquarie-as-freeport-sees-supply-limits.html

          
          
             The world’s biggest copper producers
are warning of looming supply limits at the same time that
growing concerns about the global economy leave investors with
the largest losses in nine years.  
 While  London  Metal Exchange futures anticipate prices no
higher than $6,652 a metric ton through the end of 2011, or 1.1
percent more than for delivery now, 13 of 14 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg expect a shortage next year. Traders are being too
bearish because lower prices may curb spending on mines and
exacerbate future shortages, said Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
which forecasts a price of $8,050 in 12 months.  
 “In the short-term, we’re looking at slowing growth and
oversupply, but longer-term, things look good,” said  Michael Pento , the chief economist at Delta Global Advisors Inc. in
Holmdel,  New Jersey  who correctly predicted January’s slump that
began this year’s 10 percent decline. “The smart move is to buy
copper for a few quarters down the road.”  
 Codelco Chief Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez  said last
month that higher costs and lower ore grades mean new global
supply “is coming very slowly.” Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. Chief Financial Officer Kathleen Quirk said new finds are
“extremely rare” and “it is a very constrained market from a
supply standpoint.”  
 Metal for delivery in three months, the benchmark contract,
slumped 18 percent since April to $6,605 in London on concern
the economic recovery would slow in the second half.
Manufacturing growth weakened last month in China,  Europe  and
the U.S., which account for as much as two-thirds of global
demand.  
 Lower-Quality Ore  
 Copper for delivery in August is next year’s most expensive
contract on the LME, trading at $6,652. Metal for immediate
delivery costs $6,578. The first-half drop of 12 percent was the
worst since 2001. The highest prediction for next year’s average
in Bloomberg’s survey of analysts was $8,157 from Bart Melek, a
commodity strategist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. That’s
24 percent more than now.  
 Mining companies are already missing analysts’ output
forecasts because of lower-quality ore, providing “a bullish
pricing signal,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by Liam Fitzpatrick in London said in a report June 30.  
 For now, traders are focused on demand.  China ’s growth will
slow to 9.25 percent next year, from 10.1 percent in 2010,
according to as many as 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
country’s refined-copper imports fell 8.1 percent in April and
9.7 percent in May.  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  said June 29 that the world’s
biggest economy is facing “headwinds” from the sovereign-debt
crisis in Europe, where governments are cutting budgets. U.S.
growth will slow to 2.9 percent in 2011 from 3.2 percent this
year, while the euro zone will accelerate to 1.3 percent from
1.05 percent, according to surveys of as many as 66 economists.  
 Global Equities  
 More than $7.5 trillion was wiped off the value of global
equities since mid-April because of concern slowing growth will
sap demand. Energy and commodities companies led this year’s 10
percent decline in the MSCI World Index of developed markets.
The S&P GSCI Total Return Index of 24 raw materials fell 14
percent.  
 Copper producers will have to develop new supplies even if
demand stagnates, Quirk of Phoenix-based Freeport, the world’s
second-biggest copper miner, said at a conference in  New York  on
June 4. Average ore grades fell about 26 percent in the last two
decades, according to Deutsche Bank AG. Next year’s shortage may
be the biggest since 2004, Macquarie Bank estimates.  
 Deeper Discoveries  
 A greater proportion of discoveries in the last 10 years
were more likely to need deeper mining methods than in the
previous two decades, according to a presentation in May by
London-based  Rio Tinto  Group. It cost about 95 cents to extract
a pound of copper from an open pit mine in 2008, compared with
$1.33 from an underground mine, according to data from
Addlestone, England-based researcher Brook Hunt, a Wood
Mackenzie company.  
 Prices may exceed the record $8,940 reached in July 2008 as
early as the first quarter, according to  Leon Westgate , an
analyst at Standard Bank Plc in London who forecast this year’s
plunge. Copper will average $7,708 next year, the highest ever,
according to the median in the Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts.  
 Demand will expand 6.4 percent to 19.98 million tons next
year, the biggest gain since 2007, Morgan Stanley predicts.
Refined copper from mines and scrap recycling will reach 19.95
million tons, the bank estimates. That production is worth about
$142 billion at this year’s average price on the London Metal
Exchange.  
 ‘Declining Ore Grades’  
 The surplus will shrink next year because of “declining
ore grades in mines, infrastructure problems and postponing
planned mine projects due to problems with  project financing ,”
Herbert Wirth, chief executive officer of Lubin, Poland-based
copper miner  KGHM Polska Miedz SA , said in an e-mail.  
 “The portfolio left to be developed has a lower quality
than we have been used to for many years,” Hernandez of
Santiago-based Codelco, the world’s biggest producer, said in an
interview in New York last month. “For these new projects to be
developed we need a higher copper price.”  
 Anglo American Plc, based in London, reported in April that
first-quarter output dropped 14 percent from the previous three
months because of lower ore grades.  BHP Billiton Ltd . and Rio
Tinto, the world’s biggest and third-largest mining companies,
said the same month that year-on-year production in the period
declined for the same reason.  
 Stockpiles monitored by the London Metal Exchange fell 20
percent to 441,700 tons since mid-February, equal to about 8
days of global demand. Canceled warrants, or metal earmarked for
delivery from warehouses, totaled 35,425 tons on July 1, the
highest since March, data from the bourse show.  
 ‘Decline Again’  
 “Copper supplies have started to decline again,” said  Andrew Karsh , who helps manage $4.8 billion for the Credit
Suisse Total Commodity Return Strategy team in New York. “What
we see is a continual benefit in terms of the demand for
copper.”  
 Stock analysts are already anticipating higher profit for
mining companies. Freeport will report earnings per share of
$8.22 this year and $9.16 next year, compared with $5.86 last
year, according to the mean estimate of eight analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Shares of the company fell 26 percent in
New York trading this year.  
   Aurubis AG , the world’s largest copper smelter, gained 19
percent in Frankfurt trading. A shortage probably began in March
and continued through the second quarter, CEO Bernd Drouven said
in an e-mail. The company will report earnings per share of 3.59
euros ($4.53) this year, compared with a loss of 1.15 euros in
2009, according to the mean of eight analyst estimates.  
   BHP Billiton   
 BHP Billiton, based in  Melbourne , fell 11 percent in London
this year and Rio Tinto declined 10 percent. KGHM fell 12
percent in Warsaw. Codelco, the world’s largest copper producer,
is not publicly traded.  
 “The industry as a whole is facing significant
challenges,” said Greg Waller, vice president of  investor
relations  at Vancouver-based  Teck Resources Ltd ., which mines
copper in North and South America and expects to increase output
by 40 percent in two years. “In 2011, we are expecting that
growth will be back on track and consumption of copper will be
strong while the supplies are tight.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Stablum in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net ;
Millie Munshi in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Molten copper is poured into molds at the Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Holdings Co. smelter in Tongling, China, March 29, 2008. Photographer: Natalie Behring/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Copper plates produced in Mongolia  
                       
                         
                           Danfung Dennis/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A file photograph of workers standing near stacks of copper plates produced at Erdenet Mining Corp.'s copper processing plant in Erdenet, Mongolia, 360km northwest of Ulaanbaatar. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A file photograph of workers standing near stacks of copper plates produced at Erdenet Mining Corp.'s copper processing plant in Erdenet, Mongolia, 360km northwest of Ulaanbaatar. Photographer: Danfung Dennis/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
