-- Corporate Debt Sales May Slow This Year as Profits Increase: Canada Credit
-- Theophilos Argitis
-- 2010-07-05T11:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/corporate-debt-sales-may-slow-this-year-as-profits-increase-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Canadian corporate bond issuance may
slow during the second half of the year as funding demand eases
amid rising profits and after firms rushed to sell debt earlier
this year to benefit from low yields.  
 Corporate issuance during the first six months of this year
totaled C$38.7 billion ($36.4 billion), the highest level since
C$44.9 billion in the first half of 2008, and 37 percent above
the C$28.2 billion year-ago levels, according to Bloomberg data.
Issuance has increased for three consecutive quarters.  
 Companies hurried to issue debt ahead of the Bank of
Canada’s June 1 decision to raise its  benchmark lending rate 
from record lows, and to take advantage of a “re-opening” of
credit markets, said  Robert Follis  at Bank of Nova Scotia.  
 “For the second half, we expect issuance to be down year-
over-year and sequentially from the first half,” Follis, head
of corporate bond research at the bank’s Scotia Capital unit in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “Many companies have
done their financing in the first part of the year, he said,
adding that “companies continue to generate more and more
internal cash flow so they are able to fund a little bit more of
their growth or even refinancing needs.”  
 Corporate profits before taxes increased for a third
consecutive quarter during the first three months of this year,
growing at an annual pace of 8.6 percent, Statistics Canada
reported May 31. Wages and salaries grew at a 1.2 percent pace
during the same period.  
 Canadian corporations were holding in the first quarter
C$685 billion of retained earnings, which is accumulated net
income retained for reinvestment, up 9.9 percent from a year
earlier, according to  Statistics Canada .  
 Corporate Spreads  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own corporate instead of federal debt remained at 149
basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  
 The spread rose to the highest in more than eight months in
June, reaching as wide as 154 basis points amid concern the
European debt crisis could widen and reduce investor appetite
for corporate debt. The spread was as low as 114 basis points on
March 19.  
 Total debt issuance, including sovereigns, in Canada
totaled C$62.8 billion in the first half of this year, led by
Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets’ 16.9 percent share
of the underwriting market, according to Bloomberg data. That’s
up from C$55.9 billion in the first half of last year and C$52.2
billion in the final six months of 2009.  
 RBC Capital Markets led the bank rankings for corporate
bond issues in the first half, with a 31 percent market share,
followed by Scotia Capital at 16.5 percent, Bloomberg data show.  
 First to Raise  
 Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  on June 1 became the
first Group of Seven central banker to raise interest rates,
increasing the target level to 0.5 percent from a record low
0.25 percent. The statement accompanying the decision said that
future decisions about increases would weigh domestic growth
against an uneven global recovery.  
 Standard & Poor’s raised the ratings on 20 Canadian
companies during the second quarter, including  Teck Resources
Ltd.,  Domtar Corp. and  Royal Bank of Canada , versus seven
downgrades to firms such as Toyota Credit Canada Inc. and Sun
Life Financial Inc., according to Bloomberg data. The ratio of
2.86 corporate upgrades for each downgrade during the quarter is
the highest quarterly reading since the data began in 2000.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        