-- Abertis Shareholders, CVC Capital Explore Investment, Bid for the Company
-- Anne-Sylvaine Chassany
-- 2010-07-05T18:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/criteria-acs-cvc-said-to-be-in-talks-on-abertis-transaction-shares-rise.html

          
          
             The two main shareholders of  Abertis
Infraestructuras SA  are in talks with CVC Capital Partners Ltd.
on how the manager of a 10.8 billion-euro ($13.5 billion) 
buyout fund can invest in Spain’s biggest highway operator.  
 An option under consideration would be the creation of a 
a company comprising  Criteria CaixaCorp SA , Actividades de 
Construccion y Servicios SA and CVC that would bid for all of
Abertis, ACS and Criteria said in filings to regulators today. 
No decision has been made on whether to proceed, said Criteria, 
which owns 28.5 percent of Barcelona-based Abertis, and ACS, 
which holds 25.8 percent.  
 “The described transaction is in the stage of analysis and
may not come about, be structured in a different way or be on a
different scale,” Criteria said in its statement.  
 Private equity firms, which have more than $500 billion of
unspent money, are looking for acquisitions after a two-year
freeze because of the credit crisis. Shares of Abertis rose 12
percent to 13.56 euros yesterday when trading was suspended in
Madrid, boosting the company’s market value to 10 billion euros.  
 Under the scenario in which a joint company bids for
Abertis, it would acquire a “very substantial part” of
shareholdings controlled by Criteria and ACS, with a view to
bidding for the rest at the same price it paid for the stock,
Criteria said in its filing.  
 ‘Tremendous Hidden Value’  
 The Financial Times reported today that Abertis’s two main
shareholders are considering a leveraged buyout with CVC that
would value the company at more than 25 billion euros, including
debt. In its statement, Criteria said the value for Abertis
mentioned in the media was not an agreed amount. James Olley, a
spokesman for CVC, declined to comment.  
 Abertis  has expanded into television services, airport
management and foreign highways as well as toll roads, which
still accounted for about three-quarters of its 2009 revenue of
3.94 billion euros.  
 “Abertis is a company with a tremendous hidden value,”
said  Alberto Espelosin , who helps manage about $12 billion at
Ibercaja Gestion in Zaragoza, Spain. The attraction for CVC may
be that it could sell off Abertis-owned assets such as its 14.9
percent stake in Portugal’s Brisa-Auto Estradas de Portugal or
6.7 percent of Atlantia SpA, he said.  
 ACS may need to raise funds to help cut debt, said  Olivia Peters , an analyst at MF Global in London. The company has a
leverage ratio of seven times debt to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, based on 2010 estimates,
she said.  
 ACS Options  
 Another option for ACS would be to raise funds, perhaps to
boost its stake in power company Iberdrola SA, based in Bilbao,
Spain, to 20 percent from the 12 percent it controls now, Peters
said. The builder has been approached by funds and companies
about Abertis and any decision to bring in a new investor would
be taken with Criteria’s consent, ACS Chairman  Florentino Perez 
said in April. ACS shares  gained  as much as 9.6 percent today.  
 Because no decision has been made on the transaction, it’s
still impossible to say what will be the final stake of each
investor in Abertis or whether ACS will pare back its own
investment, ACS said. Criteria said that while in the event of a
bid for Abertis, its stake in the company could at first shrink,
its indirect holding may eventually be higher than what it is
now, depending on the result of the process.  
 CVC’s recent deals in Spain include the acquisition of a 35
percent stake in cable network operator Operador R in May. The
firm also led the takeover of clothing retailer Cortefiel in
2005 and purchased Mivisa Envases SAU, Spain’s largest maker of
cans for food products, the same year. CVC bought Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV’s east European breweries for 1.5 billion euros in
October, then the biggest private equity transaction in Europe
since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Charles Penty  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        