-- Daiwa to Buy KBC's Global Convertible Bond, Asian Equity Derivatives Units
-- John Martens
-- 2010-07-05T19:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/daiwa-to-buy-kbc-s-global-convertible-bond-asian-equity-derivatives-units.html

          
          
             Daiwa Securities Group Inc. , Japan’s
second-largest brokerage, agreed to buy  KBC Groep NV’s 
convertible bond and Asia equity derivatives units for about $1
billion as the Belgian bank raises funds to repay state aid.  
 Under the agreement, Daiwa is paying about $200 million for
assets and about $800 million for the trading position, the
companies said in a joint statement today. The transaction is
subject to regulatory approval and is expected to be completed
early in the fourth quarter, according to the release.  
 Daiwa Chief Executive Officer  Shigeharu Suzuki  is expanding
broking and investment-banking operations globally after ending
a decade-long venture with  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. 
in December. The acquisition will help Daiwa boost revenue at
its equities and bond business by about 15 billion yen ($171
million) annually, said  Kenichi Kanda , a Tokyo-based spokesman.  
 “Given the size of the business, the impact on earnings is
unlikely to be very large,” said  Natsumu Tsujino , a Tokyo-based
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. Still, “Daiwa has obtained
staff and system infrastructure in one swoop, and may be able to
add to earnings with this acquisition in the highly profitable
derivatives business.”  
 Equities, Bonds  
 The brokerage company in April posted an unexpected
quarterly  loss  even as main local rival  Nomura Holdings Inc. ,
which bought Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Asian and European
operations in 2008, returned to profit.  
 “With this acquisition we demonstrate our commitment not
just to growing in Asia, but also to building a globally
competitive derivatives business,”  Toshinao Matsushima , global
head of markets at Daiwa, said in the statement. Daiwa  earned 
121 billion yen from its equities and bond businesses in the
fiscal year ended March 31, Kanda said.  
 KBC has managed $299.2 million of convertible-bond
offerings since the start of last year and Daiwa led $237.3
million of equity-linked sales in the period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with $4.94 billion of
equity-linked offerings for Nomura, which puts Japan’s largest
brokerage in ninth position globally.  
 KBC also said today it agreed to sell its reinsurer Secura
NV to  QBE Insurance Group Ltd.  and that the disposals of it and
the convertible bonds and Asian derivatives units will generate
about 300 million euros ($376 million) of surplus capital.  
 The sale of Secura to Sydney-based QBE, to be completed
this quarter, will release 139 million euros of capital,
Brussels-based KBC said. The sale of the convertible bonds and
Asian derivatives business will free about $200 million of
capital, according to a separate statement.  
 Surplus Capital  
 KBC has now amassed 2.7 billion euros of surplus capital
from earnings and disposals. That’s less than 23 percent of the
amount the Belgian bank and insurer estimates it will need to
reimburse government funds received by 2013 and keep a  core Tier
1 ratio  of at least 8 percent.  
 “The capital released by the transactions is good as it
may help KBC withstand possible market stress or pay back state
aid,” said  Cor Kluis , an analyst at Rabobank Groep in the Dutch
city of Utrecht who recommends buying KBC shares. “However,
about 300 million euros is also a relatively small amount, so
it’s hard to convince a tough market.”  
 KBC  declined  57 cents, or 1.8 percent, to 30.525 euros on
Euronext Brussels, trimming its advance since the start of the
year to 0.5 percent. That’s the eighth-best performance among
the 54 companies included in the  Stoxx 600 Banks Index , which
has lost 15 percent in the period.  
 More Disposals  
 KBC agreed to sell Brussels-based Secura to QBE Insurance
for 267 million euros, or 9.3 times last year’s  profit . The
reinsurance unit, which focuses on the Benelux region and France
and employs 86 people, had premium income of 218 million euros
last year, according to the statement.  
 KBC still plans to complete the sales of retail bank Centea
NV, insurance broker Fidea NV in Belgium, brokerage KBC Peel
Hunt Ltd. in the U.K. and the Zagiel consumer-loan unit in
Poland before the end of this year.  
 The planned initial public offering of a minority stake in
Prague-based  Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka AS  in the second half
should garner at least 1.5 billion euros of capital if the
company sells a 40 percent stake for 1.7 times book value, KBC
said. The CSOB IPO would add 2.2 billion euros to surplus
capital if KBC were to get 2.4 times book value.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       KBC is Belgium’s biggest bank by market value  
                       
                         
                           Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Daiwa Securities Group Inc. chief executive officer Shigeharu Suzuki. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Daiwa Securities Group Inc. chief executive officer Shigeharu Suzuki. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
