-- Deficits Shrinking Most in Decades as Growth Lets S&P 500 Rally
-- Simon Kennedy
-- 2010-07-05T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/deficits-shrink-most-in-decades-as-slowing-growth-still-lets-s-p-500-rally.html

          
          
             Industrial countries are embarking on
the most aggressive tightening of fiscal policy in more than
four decades, led by the U.S. and Britain, as governments gamble
they can pare debt without strangling an economic recovery.  
 Rich nations will reduce their primary budget deficits,
excluding interest payments, by 1.6 percentage points next year,
the most since the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development began keeping records in 1970, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. economists. The budget squeeze will lop 0.9
percentage point off growth in 2011.  
 Even as President  Barack Obama  warns his counterparts to be
wary of derailing demand, U.S. gross domestic product will be
reduced by 1.3 percentage points next year when his $787 billion
stimulus program expires. That compares with a drag of 0.7
percentage point in the euro-area and 2.4 points in the U.K.,
JPMorgan calculates.  
 “There’s going to be a meaningful deceleration in growth,
but it will still be solid,” said  Bruce Kasman , the New York
company’s chief economist. He forecasts the global economy will
expand at a 2.8 percent annual pace in the first half of next
year, down from 3.8 percent in the quarter that just ended.  
 While retrenchment may fortify countries by reducing
government debt and lowering long-term interest rates, investors
are selling stocks partly on concern that policy makers may
repeat the mistakes of the 1930s and cut back too far, too fast.
The  MSCI World Index  has fallen 16.5 percent to 1,036.62 on July
2, and the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  was down 16 percent to
1,022.58 from their year-to-date highs in April.  
 Bounce Back  
 The S&P index will bounce back to 1,350 by the middle of
next year as investors realize the recovery is on track and
profits are rising, said  David Bianco , head of U.S. equity
strategy at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research in New York.  
 “Right now, we’re in the worry season,” he told reporters
June 28. “I look forward to moving into the earnings season.”  
 Investors should favor companies that export to faster-
growing emerging markets instead of businesses exposed to local
demand that may be pinched, said  Ian Richards , an equity
strategist in London at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. That
means corporations like London-based  British American Tobacco
Plc , Europe’s second-largest cigarette maker, and Leuven,
Belgium-based  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV , the world’s largest
brewer, will probably outperform businesses such as U.K. car
insurer  Admiral Group Plc  and Italian utility  A2A SpA , he said.  
 Declining Demand  
 Some companies already are coping with declining government
demand.  International Business Machines Corp.  in Armonk, New
York, the world’s largest computer-services provider, said on
April 19 its public revenue was flat in the first quarter after
rising 6 percent in the same period a year earlier. At the same
time, the decline in industrial revenue was 2 percent compared
with 15 percent.  
 Munich-based  Siemens AG , Europe’s largest engineering
company, last week predicted “continued strong profitability”
in its third quarter as demand rebounds for its factory-
automation gear, health-care products and light bulbs. Orders
and sales for the quarter ended June 30 rose simultaneously for
the first time in almost two years as customers restocked goods.  
 The last time developed economies saw primary deficits
tumble was in 2006, when they fell by 1.5 percentage points,
according to data from the Paris-based OECD. Industrial nations
grew 3.1 percent that year, while the MSCI World Index rose 18
percent.  
 Need for Austerity  
 Obama and his fellow Group of 20 leaders agreed on June 27
to keep existing stimulus plans in place while pledging to halve
their budget deficits by 2013. Their statement, issued after a
summit in Toronto, bridged a gap between Obama, who wanted to
focus on growth, and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who
stressed the need for austerity.  
 Obama’s push for more government spending in the U.S. this
year has run into problems in Congress, where Senate Republicans
oppose it, saying it will increase the deficit.  
 Much of the fiscal tightening in the U.S. next year will be
what Kasman described as “passive” -- the result of ending the
stimulus package Congress passed in February 2009, shortly after
Obama took office. The government says it already has
distributed $415 billion, or 53 percent, of the program, which
includes tax cuts and expenditures on roads and other
infrastructure projects.  
 The U.S. will probably reduce its  budget deficit  -- the
difference between what it spends and what it takes in as taxes
and revenue -- to $1.1 trillion in the fiscal year beginning
Oct. 1 from $1.4 trillion this year, said  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at New York-based Moody’s Analytics. He predicts the
total will fall to $900 billion in 2012 and $800 billion in
2013.  
 Debt Crisis  
 European governments, spooked by Greece’s  debt crisis , are
also implementing cuts. The U.K.’s new coalition government last
month announced higher taxes and the deepest spending reductions
since World War II to trim its deficit. Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  proposed spending cuts on July 4 that will
reduce Germany’s federal budget deficit by about 40 percent
during the next five years.  
 Tighter fiscal policies will shrink the German deficit a
percentage point of GDP in each of the next two years from 4.3
percent in 2010 and reduce the U.K.’s gap to 7.4 percent next
year from 9.7 percent this year, economists at Barclays Capital
predict.  
 Expansion in the euro area will slow by 1 percentage point
next year, estimates  Lars Tranberg Rasmussen , an analyst at
Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. At the same time, the euro’s
decline may add 0.8 percentage point to growth, and a decline in
long-term interest rates could add another 0.2 point, he said.
The euro zone contracted 4.1 percent in 2009.  
 ‘Negative Effects’  
 “Fiscal policy cannot be neglected and there are some
negative effects, but we don’t think tightening will mean
another recession,” Rasmussen said.  
 One irony is, for all Merkel’s declarations that “it’s
time to reduce deficits,” Germany is on track to get a boost
from continued infrastructure spending and income-tax cuts.
Europe’s largest economy will receive a 1.1 percentage-point
fillip from the government during the next two years, estimates
 Gilles Moec , an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London and
former Bank of France official.  
 That will help cushion the blow of austerity programs in
Europe’s so-called peripheral countries such as Greece, which
Moec estimates will suffer a 4.3 percentage-point hit from its
government’s efforts to avert a debt restructuring or default.  
 Stock-Market Gains  
 Smaller budgets may generate stock-market gains by limiting
the amount governments need to borrow, freeing up access to
funds for private companies, according to  Ian Scott , a London-
based strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. Periods of high
borrowing during the past 35 years in the U.K. were associated
with relatively low stock valuations, he said.  
 The simultaneous tightening of fiscal policy by rich
nations is nevertheless a “risky strategy,” according to
Kasman. With short-term interest rates in the  U.S. ,  Europe  and
 Japan  already at or near zero, there’s little scope for the
Federal Reserve and other central banks to respond with easier
money if the budget squeeze undercuts the economy, he said.  
 Mohamed El-Erian , chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach, California, likens
the situation to driving a car without a spare tire over a bumpy
road where further mishaps are possible. Fifty-nine percent of
440 executives in an RBC Capital Markets  survey  published last
week believe governments in developed nations lack the firepower
to spur credit if another financial crisis hits.  
 Falling Home Sales  
 The U.S. housing market is already suffering from the
expiration of an $8,000 tax credit at the end of April, which
pushed May purchases of new U.S. homes down 33 percent to the
 lowest level  in records going back to 1963, the Commerce
Department said. Sales for  Lennar Corp. , the third-largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, were down 20 percent to 25 percent in
June compared with a year earlier, the Miami-based company said
June 24.  
 The chance of a relapse into recession in the U.S. will
rise to one in three from one in four if Congress fails to
extend unemployment benefits and provide federal aid to states
as Obama has requested, Zandi said. Obama might also opt to
phase in tax increases for the wealthy that are due to kick in
next year to cushion their impact on the economy, he added.  
 There is a 30 percent chance of renewed recession in the
U.K. and 35 percent risk in the euro-area, said  Howard Archer ,
chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in London.  
 “A double-dip can’t be ruled out,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rich Miller  in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net 
 Simon Kennedy  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President Barack Obama warns his counterparts to be wary of derailing demand as rich nations reduce their primary budget deficits. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Charles Dumas, research director at Lombard Street Research, talks about the U.K. government's fiscal austerity program to cut the size of its budget deficit.
     Dumas speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Jeremy Zirin, senior equity strategist at UBS Wealth Management, talks about the outlook for U.S. corporate earnings, stocks and the economy, and his equity investment strategy.
     Zirin speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Thomas Schroeder, managing director at Chart Partners Group Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about technical analysis of the oil market.
     Speaking from Bangkok, Schroeder also discusses the outlook for U.S. and Asia-Pacific stocks, commodity demand and the Australian dollar. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Rogoff, professor at Harvard University and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about China's real estate market and economy.
     Rogoff, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for European banks, the global economy and stimulus policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 29 (Bloomberg) -- John Lipsky, first deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund, talks about the fiscal policies in the major European economies and the meeting of Group of 20 leaders last weekend.
     Lipsky, speaking with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack," also discusses the European Union's plan to conduct stress tests on its largest banks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
