-- Egypt's Economic Growth May Accelerate to 5.6% Helped By Consumer Spending
-- Alaa Shahine
-- 2010-07-05T07:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/egypt-s-economic-growth-may-accelerate-to-5-6-helped-by-consumer-spending.html

          
          
             Egyptian economic growth may
accelerate this fiscal year helped by consumer spending, though
it will probably remain below what the government says is needed
to keep unemployment from rising.  
 The economy will expand 5.6 percent, according to the
median estimate of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
below the official target of 5.8 percent. The economy probably
grew 5.2 percent in the fiscal year ending June 30, according to
the survey, in line with the government forecast.  
 “Egypt has sizeable demand which is not expected to slow
down,”  Alia Mamdouh , an economist at Cairo-based investment
bank CI Capital, said by telephone. “Government spending will
also help growth because I don’t see private investment picking
up that much.” Mamdouh is forecasting a growth rate of 5.8
percent.  
 The economy of the most populous Arab country expanded at
an average rate of 7 percent in the three fiscal years through
June 2008, helped by foreign investment and revenue from tourism
and the Suez Canal. Growth slowed to 4.7 percent in the year
ending June 2009 due to the global financial crisis.  
 The government says it needs a growth rate of about 7
percent to create enough jobs for the 750,000 people who enter
the workforce every year. Unemployment is 9 percent, according
to the state statistics agency.  
 “The rapid output growth that we saw between 2005 and
2008, underpinned by foreign direct investment productivity
gains and the favorable external environment will be a challenge
to reproduce” this year, said  John Sfakianakis , Riyadh-based
chief Middle East and North Africa economist at Credit Agricole
CIB. He is forecasting a growth rate of 5 percent.  
 Foreign Investment  
 Egypt is targeting about $8 billion in foreign direct
investments next year, compared with a forecast of $5.5 billion
this year, according to a report published on the Economic
Development Ministry’s  website . Foreign investment peaked at
more than $13 billion in the year through June 2008.  
 Private investments have remained below their pre-crisis
levels, the ministry said in the report. They fell to 48 percent
of total investments in the year through June 2009, from 64
percent in the previous 12-month period, it said.  
 The economy expanded 5.8 percent in the third quarter of
the fiscal year that ended on June 30, from 5 percent in the
previous three months, Economic Development Ministry  Osman Mohamed Osman  said in May.  
 The state’s growth target could be achieved “if the
performance of the manufacturing sector continues to improve, in
addition to the services sectors, including retail trade,
transportation, construction and the Suez Canal,”  Reham El- Desoki , senior economist at Cairo-based investment bank Beltone
Financial, said in an e-mail. She is expecting growth to reach
5.4 percent in the next fiscal year.  
 Egypt’s benchmark  EGX30  stock index has fallen 5 percent
this year compared with an 8 percent decline of  the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index . Orascom Construction Industries, Egypt’s
biggest publicly traded builder, has fallen 11 percent this
year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        