-- Elpida to Cut Debt, Buy Assets Amid Record Profits
-- Takashi Ueno
-- 2010-07-06T08:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/elpida-to-cut-debt-buy-assets-as-chip-sale-rebound-spurs-record-profits.html

          
          
             Elpida Memory Inc. , the world’s
third-biggest maker of computer-memory chips, plans to cut debt
and buy assets as a recovery in computer sales helps it post
record profits a year after receiving a government bailout.  
 “We’ll seek opportunities including acquisitions and
partnerships,” Executive Officer  Takehiro Fukuda , who oversees
finance and accounting at Tokyo-based Elpida, said in an
interview at his office. “We need to further expand the range
of our business” in areas such as mobile phone and television
chips, and we plan to cut our debt-to-equity ratio to 1 from 1.3
by yearend and eventually to 0.3, he said.  
 The manufacturer received a 30 billion yen ($341 million)
capital injection from state-run Development Bank of Japan last
year after slumping semiconductor prices led to a record loss in
fiscal 2008. Elpida expects record profits this financial year
on increased sales as new mobile devices require more memory to
process programs, President  Yukio Sakamoto  said last month.  
 Elpida said a year ago it would expand partnerships with
Taiwanese makers of dynamic random access memory chips and
improve its financial position under a Japanese government-
backed revival plan that runs until March 31, 2012. Bond prices
reflect market confidence in the strategy, said Fukuda.  
 Elpida has 30 billion yen of securities  maturing  in
December and may refinance them with convertible bonds or dollar
notes, Fukuda said. The company registered to sell as much as
100 billion yen of bonds, according to a filing with Japan’s
Finance Ministry on Dec. 14.  
 Spread to Treasuries  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Elpida’s 2.09
percent notes due in January 2012 instead of similar-maturity
government debt fell 2 basis points to 191 basis points today,
according to Japan Securities Dealers Association prices. The
spread on its 2.1 percent bonds due in November 2012 narrowed 3
basis points to 222, the biggest decrease since June 29, JSDA
data show.  
 “Our business plan until 2012 was approved, so bonds
maturing before then” have more favorable spreads, Fukuda said.
“Market prices show that those due after March 2012 are
regarded as non-guaranteed.”  
 The company posted net income of 3.09 billion yen in the 12
months ended March 31 compared with a 178.9 billion yen loss a
year earlier, the  company said  May 12.  
 “Their restructuring is welcome,” said  Yuichi Ishida , an
analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Elpida
has to improve a weak balance sheet. They also need to improve
cost-competitiveness.”  
 DRAM Demand  
 The Japan Credit Rating Agency revised Elpida’s outlook to
stable from negative on June 22, saying its financial structure
will “significantly” improve on demand for  DRAM  -- chips that
serve as short-term memory inside computers.  
 “We shouldn’t rely on state support, but we have to
compete with rivals in Korea or Taiwan where government support
is expected,” said Fukuda. Even after March 2012 “we expect
implied support from our government.”  
 Elpida  gained 60 yen, or 4.5 percent, to 1,391 yen in Tokyo
today, the biggest increase since June 3. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average advanced 0.8 percent to 9,338.04.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Ueno  in Tokyo at 
 tueno@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Elpida expects record profits this financial year on increased sales as new mobile devices require more memory President Yukio Sakamoto said. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Elpida Memory Inc. memory chips. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
