-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fall, Erasing Gain, on Trichet `Austerity' Measures
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-05T20:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/emerging-market-benchmark-stocks-climb-led-by-htc-technology-companies.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks fell for the
fourth time in five days, erasing an earlier advance, after
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet urged
“austerity” measures to contain budget deficits.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  fell 0.1 percent to 912.94
at 3:45 p.m. in New York. Eight out of the 10 industry groups in
the 21-country gauge dropped, offsetting a 1.2 percent gain in
technology companies. Energy stocks retreated as crude oil
traded near the lowest level in a month on concern that a slower
pace of economic recovery in China may constrain global fuel
demand.  
 Poland’s zloty strengthened 1 percent against the euro, its
steepest gain since June 10, as investors bet  Bronislaw Komorowski’s  presidential victory will help the nation cut its
deficit.  
 “For now markets are going lower driven by a sharp
correction in commodities,”  Adrian Mowat , JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s Hong Kong-based chief Asia and emerging-market strategist,
said in a report. “Investors are too pessimistic on global
growth. We recommend investors buy into emerging-market
consumption themes and sectors that have been out of favor for a
decade,” including technology, he said.  
 Technology companies increased for the first time in seven
days after JPMorgan’s recommendation. Smartphone maker  HTC Corp. 
of Taiwan jumped the most in 14 months on a buy recommendation
by Citigroup Inc. Chinese equities fell to a 15-month low as
passenger-car sales growth weakened in June, deepening concern
the world’s third-biggest economy is slowing.  
 ‘Austerity, Rigor’  
 Trichet  said yesterday he has “no problem with austerity,
rigor” as “good budgetary management,” following reports last
week that showed U.S. payrolls dropped for the first time this
year and factory orders slumped.  
 The MSCI emerging index  has retreated 7.7 percent in 2010
after rallying a record 75 percent last year. Technology stocks
were this year’s second-worst performers after energy shares.  
 Taiwan’s Taiex Index advanced 1.5 percent for today’s
biggest gain among benchmark equity indexes in major emerging
markets.  HTC , the maker of Google Inc.’s Nexus One mobile phone,
jumped 6.9 percent after Citigroup raised its rating on the
stock to “buy” from “sell,” saying the company has two to
three quarters before the competition catches up in the so-
called Android phone market.  
 Russian Stocks Fall  
 Russia’s  Micex Index  advanced 0.3 percent as OAO Aeroflot,
the country’s biggest airline, gained 2.6 percent. Copper
advanced for a second day after stockpiles dropped to the lowest
level in seven months.  
 The zloty appreciated for a fourth day. Victory for
Komorowski gives his Civic Platform party control of the
presidency and cabinet, ending divisions that arose under the
late President  Lech Kaczynski , who died in an April 10 plane
crash. That may help Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  push through
spending cuts, reducing a budget deficit that widened to 7.1
percent of gross domestic product last year, more than twice the
European Union limit.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index  retreated 0.8 percent. SAIC
Motor Corp. paced losses by automakers after passenger-car
purchases rose 10.9 percent in June from a year earlier, down
from May’s 25 percent gain, according to the China Automotive
Technology & Research Center. Bank of China Ltd. slid 0.9
percent after announcing plans for a rights offer to replenish
capital.  
 India’s Reliance Natural Resources Ltd., the natural gas
supplier owned by  Anil Ambani , plunged 28 percent after the
billionaire arranged to sell the company to his Reliance Power
Ltd. at a discount to speed construction of power plants.  
 Brazil’s Bovespa stock index fell for the first time in
three days on concern higher borrowing costs will slow economic
growth.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined for a second day, falling
three basis points to 3.35 percentage points, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        