-- Meteor Markets Structured Notes Paying 19% on Rally of Top U.K. Stocks
-- Sarfraz Thind
-- 2010-07-05T10:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/meteor-markets-structured-notes-paying-19-on-rally-of-top-u-k-stocks.html

          
          
             Meteor Asset Management Ltd., a
London-based provider of structured products, is marketing six-
year notes to individual investors that pay as much as 19
percent a year if U.K. blue-chip stocks rise above a preset
level.  
 The Top-10 Kick-Out Plan Two securities are linked to
Britain’s 10 biggest companies, including  BP Plc  and Vodafone
Plc. The notes are automatically redeemed, or called, paying 19
percent if at least eight stocks gain more than a specified
amount at the end of the first year. If the notes aren’t called
then, they continue to operate and may be redeemed in subsequent
years if the trigger point is reached.  
 The best result for the investor is if the shares fail to
rise for five years then hit their target level in the final
year. That’s because if the notes aren’t called, the coupon
increases by 19 percentage points per year, meaning investors
can earn a maximum 114 percent on their investment after six
years.  
 The securities are designed to be closely correlated with
the FTSE 100 index, a gauge of the U.K.’s largest companies,
according to Phil Saunders, Meteor’s chief executive officer.
The benchmark has fallen 10.7 percent this year.  
 “The logic behind the plan is that if the FTSE rises, it’s
likely that these stocks will rise,” said Saunders. The 10
biggest stocks represent about 45 percent of the index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 50 Percent  
 Investors get back their initial investment if the
securities aren’t called and at least three of the stocks
haven’t fallen by at least 50 percent at the notes’ maturity. If
three or more shares are below their reference level on August
8, 2016, investors incur a loss equal to the decline in the
third-worst performing share between the August 6, 2010 start
date and the notes’ expiry.  
 The charges and fees may be as much as 9 percent over the
six years, according to the prospectus.  
 Meteor’s notes are also linked to drugmakers  AstraZeneca
Plc  and GlaxoSmithKline Plc, miners BHP Billiton Plc and Rio
Tinto, gas company BG Group Plc, British American Tobacco Plc,
HSBC Holdings Plc and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc .  
 Meteor, which started in 2007, issued a similar note in May
2009 that pays 17.5 percent if at least eight of the 10 biggest
FTSE 100 companies gain ground. Six of the stocks are trading
below their start level.  
 Vodafone  was the only stock in Meteor’s new note to fall
more than 50 percent in every continuous six-year period since
each share was listed on the London Stock Exchange, according to
Meteor’s analysis.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        