-- EU's Rehn Says He Advocates `Full Transparency' for Stress Tests on Banks
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2010-07-05T19:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/eu-s-rehn-says-he-advocates-full-transparency-for-stress-tests-on-banks.html

          
          
             European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  urged “full transparency” for
tests conducted on banks to determine their resilience against
financial shocks.  
 “We need to remain vigilant, in particular with regard to
the financial markets,” he said in a speech prepared for
delivery to the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France, this
evening. “The doubts about the health of the European banks
need to be dispelled, which is why the stress tests are so
important.”  
 Finance ministers from the 27 EU countries, who will
discuss the stress tests at a meeting next week in Brussels,
also will ask the Committee of European Banking Supervisors to
extend them and take into account sovereign-debt risks,
according to a draft EU paper obtained by Bloomberg News. The
supervisory committee is coordinating the stress tests.  
 The EU has pledged 750 billion euros ($940 billion) to
reassure the markets and backstop the euro, which has fallen
about 13 percent against the dollar this year on concerns that
Greece’s debt crisis is spreading. The extra yield investors
demand to hold Greek 10-year bonds over benchmark German bunds
has jumped to about 767 basis points, more than four times the
level a year ago.  
 Restoring Confidence  
 “The commission is in favor of full transparency and
advocated the extension of bank stress tests and the publication
of the results by the end of July,” Rehn said. “This will help
reduce uncertainty and restore confidence.”  
 The European tests will include an assessment of a possible
sovereign-debt “shock” and extend to “second-tier” banks
such as regional lenders, he said.  
 “The common methodology agreed is realistic and
sufficient,” Rehn said in a question-and-answer session with EU
Parliament members. “This will give us a clear and more
accurate picture of resilience in the whole European banking
sector.”  
 He said “financial backstops” must be in place when the
results are published “in case there are pockets of
vulnerability.”  
 The backstops would start with national funds and then
involve, “in the second line of defense,” mechanisms including
the European Financial Stability Facility being backed by 440
billion euros in guarantees by euro-area countries as well as
possible International Monetary Fund support.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Meera Louis  in Brussels at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Stearns  in Strasbourg, France, at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        