-- European Stocks Already Pricing In Economic Slowdown, RBS Strategists Say
-- Alexis Xydias
-- 2010-07-05T12:39:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/european-stocks-already-pricing-in-economic-slowdown-rbs-strategists-say.html

          
          
             Investors should buy European
equities even as economic reports from the U.S. to China suggest
global growth is faltering because stocks have already priced in
a slowdown, strategists said.  
 “European stocks are a dirty word among investors,”  Ian Richards , London-based strategist at  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc , said at a presentation in London today. “Equity
markets are all about pricing in risk and there is a major risk
premium already on the table.”  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600  Index has tumbled 13 percent from this
year’s high in April on concern a sovereign-debt crisis is
spreading in the region. The selloff left the benchmark gauge
trading at about 11 times reported earnings, the lowest
valuation since 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  
 RBS’s forecast came as strategists today reiterated calls
to buy equities in Europe after the Stoxx 600 fell 4.5 percent
last week.  Gary Baker  and  Patrik Schowitz , strategists at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Global Research in London, today cut
their year-end prediction for the Stoxx 600 to 275. That’s still
16 percent higher than last week’s close.  
 Mars Landing  
 “If an investor from Mars landed and was given a snapshot
of current global economic data he/she would probably be puzzled
about equity market caution given a slate of economic indicators
all suggesting expansion,” the Merrill Lynch strategists wrote
in a report today.  
 In the U.S., the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 5 percent
last week after the government said private companies created
83,000 jobs, fewer than economists had estimated, and the
Institute for Supply Management’s  manufacturing gauge  fell to
56.2 in June from 59.7 in May, also trailing forecasts. China’s
stocks tumbled the most in six weeks on June 29 after the
Conference Board revised down its April leading economic index
for the Asian country.  
 Analysts estimate companies in the European benchmark Stoxx
600 will boost earnings by 57 percent in 2010 and 22 percent in
2011, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The 2010
forecast stood at 30 percent at the start of this year. The
 Stoxx 600  is now trading at about 11 times estimated earnings,
the lowest level in a year and down from 13.4 times in April,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 “The European market has already seen a sharp correction
and we believe a substantial amount of slowing growth momentum
is now priced,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. strategists wrote in a
report dated July 2. “Near term we expect the market to move
sideways as growth concerns remain in focus but on a 6-12 month
view returns should be good, driven by low valuation and strong
earnings.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        