-- Euro Worst to Come for Top Analysts as TD Sees Parity
-- Matthew Brown
-- 2010-07-06T14:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/euro-worst-to-come-for-most-accurate-analysts-as-td-securities-sees-parity.html

          
          
             The most accurate foreign-exchange
forecaster says the euro will continue to weaken and may
approach parity with the dollar as the  European Central Bank 
buys more  government bonds  to support the region’s economy.  
 Shaun Osborne, chief currency strategist at TD Securities
Inc. in Toronto, said the euro will depreciate to $1.13 in the
third quarter, $1.08 by year-end and may near $1 in 2011 before
recovering. Osborne, whose predictions were within 4.1 percent
of the mark on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
was echoed by the nine following most-accurate forecasters in
anticipating a lower euro in the next two quarters.  
 The euro weakened 15 percent against the dollar in the
first half on speculation record budget deficits from Ireland to
Portugal and  Greece  will force governments to cut spending and
reduce economic growth. Bond yields among the euro-area’s so-
called peripheral nations surged relative to German bunds even
as European Union leaders crafted an almost $1 trillion aid
package to avoid sovereign defaults.  
 “It’s going to be an immensely challenging environment for
these economies to try and regain competitiveness internally
within the euro zone,” said Osborne, 47, who has been head of
currency strategy at TD Securities since he joined in 2006 from
Scotia Capital. His colleague  Jacqui Douglas  in Toronto assists
in formulating forecasts. “The ECB is moving towards its
version of quantitative easing. It suggests they’re going to be
very late now to the tightening cycle.”  
 The currency, shared by 16 European nations, rose 0.8
percent to $1.2644 as of 10:49 a.m. in  New York . It has gained
6.5 percent since hitting a more than four-year low of $1.1877
on June 7, after falling from 2009’s high of $1.5144 on Nov. 25.  
 Diversifying Reserves  
 The ECB began buying government bonds from some member
nations on May 10, part of the EU rescue package, to cap yields
and underpin the euro. The decline threatens to break up the
region, former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  said in
May, while central banks are putting more of their reserves into
currencies other than the euro, data from the International
Monetary Fund show.  
 “Reserve diversification, one of the drivers behind euro
strength ever since the introduction of the single currency, is
therefore unlikely to be euro-dollar supportive over the next
few years,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a strategist in London at
Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s biggest foreign-exchange trader
and one of the five best predictors of the currency’s decline
against the yen and the pound this year.  
 Most Accurate  
 TD Securities, a unit of  Canada ’s second-biggest lender,  Toronto-Dominion Bank , was also the most accurate forecaster for
the dollar against the yen, second best for the euro versus the
yen and the dollar-Swiss franc exchange rate. The firm’s
predictions had the lowest margin of error in a survey of 48
forecasters of eight currency pairs in the past 18 months.  
 The firm surpassed second-ranked Standard Chartered Plc,
whose margin of error was 4.37 percent, third-place Wells Fargo
& Co., Credit Suisse Group AG in fourth place and Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce in fifth.  
 Recent euro strength is a sign traders are trimming bearish
bets after wagering correctly that the currency would weaken,
rather than a change in sentiment, according to Callum Henderson, head of foreign-exchange strategy at Standard
Chartered in  Singapore .  
 Fiscal Tightening  
 “We do not think euro-dollar weakness is over,” Henderson
wrote in an e-mail. “Growth in the euro area will remain
subdued for some time due to fiscal tightening. To be sure, euro
weakness will benefit the exporters in north  Europe .”  
 Henderson predicts a drop to $1.10 to $1.12 this quarter,
before the euro recovers to $1.30 by 2012.  
 CIBC, based in Toronto, predicts the euro will depreciate
to $1.18 in the third quarter, before climbing to $1.20 by the
end of the year and $1.24 by mid-2011. The next six months will
be a “turning point” as traders focus on economic frailty in
the U.S., said  Avery Shenfeld , the chief economist at CIBC. The
Toronto-based firm’s average margin of error was 5.19 percent.  
 Futures show a majority of traders don’t expect an
interest-rate increase by the Fed until the second quarter of
2011 after the central bank said June 23 that “financial
conditions have become less supportive of economic growth on
balance, largely reflecting developments abroad.”  
 “There will be an absence of enough growth to prompt Fed
tightening anytime soon, and a recognition that if domestic
demand cannot sustain the U.S. expansion that a weaker dollar
will be needed to allow trade to fill in for some of that,”
said Shenfeld, who joined CIBC 16 years ago and has been chief
economist for a little more than a year.  
 Rate Differentials  
 The Fed has kept its benchmark interest rate at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008, while the ECB’s main rate has
been at a record low of 1 percent since May 2009.  
 The most accurate analysts were identified using data
gathered for Bloomberg’s Foreign Exchange Forecasts function.  
 Firms were compared based on seven predictions: six
forecasts as of the end of each quarter for the close of the
subsequent quarter, starting Dec. 31, 2008, plus estimates as of
a year ago for this year’s second quarter. Only firms with at
least four forecasts were ranked in each currency pair, and only
those that qualified for ranking in at least five of eight pairs
were included in the overall best list.  
 The majority of analysts say the euro has further to fall
against the dollar, dropping to $1.19 in the first quarter and
ending 2011 at $1.21, according to the median of at least 26
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Weakness ‘To Persist’  
 “Over the next six months, the market’s concern over the
growth outlook is likely to persist,” said  Derek Halpenny ,
European head of global currency research in  London  at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., which ranked seventh overall, with a
5.55 percent margin of error. “The scenario for the global
economy is deteriorating, and in those circumstances you’ve got
to prefer the dollar over countries where they are implementing
austerity programs.”  
 The euro is most likely to weaken in the second half of
this year against the Australian,  New Zealand  and Canadian
dollars, said  Nick Bennenbroek , 39, global head of currency
strategy in New York at Wells Fargo, the biggest U.S. home
lender. The bank had a margin of error of 4.76 percent across
all currency pairs and was the top forecaster for the dollar
against the yuan.  
 ‘Continue to Weaken’  
 “Our overall view is that the euro will continue to weaken
and  Australia , New Zealand and Canada will rebound over the next
year,” said Bennenbroek, who joined the bank in 2007, beginning
his career in finance at the New Zealand Treasury in Wellington.
“These are medium-term trades we believe people should be
putting on now.” The euro will end this year at $1.20 and
conclude 2011 at $1.08, he said.  
 Currency forecasting became easier the past 12 months after
the worst of the global financial crisis, sparked by Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in September 2008, passed,
said  Niels Christensen , 49, chief currency analyst at Nordea
Bank AB in Copenhagen. Nordea was the most-accurate forecaster
for the euro-dollar  exchange rate .  
 “In March 2009, everybody was wondering whether we would
get another Lehman, that the economy was extremely fragile,” he
said. “In December 2009, the wave of risk appetite was abating
and currencies started to trade on fundamentals and rate
differentials again.”  
 The euro will trade at $1.25 through year-end before
weakening to as low as $1.15 in 2011, according to Nordea.  
   Ray Farris , head of foreign-exchange strategy in London at
Credit Suisse, whose margin of error in the survey was 4.81
percent, said he wasn’t able to immediately comment.  
 The European currency will rise versus the yen, climbing to
114 yen in the fourth quarter and 127 yen by the end of 2011,
from 109.36 today, median forecasts show. The pound will fall to
$1.44 this quarter, and strengthen to 81 pence per euro in the
first quarter, the estimates show. Sterling was at $1.5192 and
at 83.08 pence per euro today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The ECB, led by President Jean-Claude Trichet, began buying government bonds as part of the EU rescue package to cap yields and underpin the euro. Photographer: Mario Proenca/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 6 (Bloomberg) -- Daniel Tenengauzer, head of emerging-market currency and rates strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, talks about the outlook of the currency market.
     Tenengauzer talks with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    


 
     
         Attachment:  Ranking: Forecasters 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
