-- European Stocks Retreat for Fifth Day; BHP Billiton Slides
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-07-05T16:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/european-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-cable-wireless-may-drop.html

          
          
             European stocks  declined for a fifth
day, the longest losing streak in a year, as a report showed
growth slowed in the region’s services and manufacturing
industries.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group paced a retreat among
mining companies. Bilfinger Berger AG,  Germany ’s second-largest
construction company, slid 3.3 percent after postponing the
initial share sale of its Australian unit.  BP (BP/)  Plc advanced 3.5
percent after the Sunday Times said the oil company is seeking a
strategic investor that would help it thwart takeover bids.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 0.3 percent to 236.68 after
swinging between gains and losses at least 13 times today. The
gauge has declined to the lowest level since May 25 as
disappointing economic data from  China  and the U.S. fanned
concern that the global recovery is faltering.  
 “With downward earnings revisions likely to be seen over
the coming quarter, there are few catalysts to persuade
investors to take on risk,” BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research’s European equity strategist Gary Baker wrote in a
report today. “The risks of a double dip are present but, in
our view, still low.”  
 Baker lowered his 2010 year-end forecast for the Stoxx 600
to 275 and reduced his 2011 per-share profit growth prediction
to “sub-10 percent” from 20 percent previously.  
 Benchmark Indexes  
 Benchmark indexes fell in 15 of the 18 western European
markets.  France ’s  CAC 40 (CAC)  slipped 0.5 percent, while Germany’s
DAX and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 dropped 0.3 percent. U.S. equity
markets were closed today for the Independence Day holiday.  
 A  composite index  based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in the services and manufacturing industries dropped to
56 in June from 56.4 the prior month, London-based Markit
Economics said today. That’s in line with an initial estimate
published on June 23. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  
 A Chinese services industry index slid to a 15-month low in
June, adding to signs that the world’s third-biggest economy is
cooling. The measure fell for a third month to 55.6 from 56.4,
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit said. Today’s data adds to
manufacturing indexes last week and a services gauge released
July 3 in signaling that growth is slowing as the government
cracks down on property speculation and the effects of stimulus
measures fade.  
 In the U.K., confidence among chief financial officers at
major companies fell for a second quarter to a 12-month low on
concern the economy will return to recession amid the
government’s budget squeeze, a survey by Deloitte LLP found.  
 Biggs Sells  
 Concern governments around the world are curtailing
stimulus measures too soon spurred Barton Biggs to sell about
half of his stock investments last week. Biggs, whose Traxis
Partners LLC gained 38 percent in 2009 when he bought equities
after the S&P 500 fell to a 12-year low, sold most of his U.S.
technology holdings, he told Bloomberg Television July 2.  
 The Stoxx 600’s decline has extended the drop from this
year’s high in April to 13 percent and left the gauge trading at
11 times reported  earnings , the lowest valuation since 2008,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 “Equities just look really cheap unless you assume that
it’s all going to be another deep recession again,” Lothar Mentel, chief investment officer for Octopus Investments Ltd. in
London, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “Overall, the
markets are overdoing things a little bit.”  
 BHP, Rio Tinto  
 BHP Billiton, the world’s largest mining company, retreated
2.2 percent to 1,684.5 pence. Rio Tinto declined 1.8 percent to
2,880.5 pence. Basic-resource stocks posted the biggest drop
among all 19 industry  groups  in the Stoxx 600, losing 1.9
percent.  
 Bilfinger Berger slipped 3.3 percent to 42.90 euros after
saying its Valemus Ltd. division was unable secure enough
investor demand in an IPO because of “adverse conditions on the
stock exchange.”  
 Edenred (EDEN) ,  Accor SA (AC) ’s services unit, sank 8 percent to 13.61
euros on the company’s second day of trading in Paris. Accor
slipped 3.2 percent to 22.77 euros.  
 BP advanced 3.5 percent to 333.3 pence. The oil company is
seeking a strategic investor that would help it thwart takeover
bids, the Sunday Times reported, without saying where it got the
information. The Guardian newspaper reported that the Kuwait
Investment Office is in talks about increasing its stake in BP
to as much as 10 percent.  
 Renewable Energy  
 Abengoa SA (ABG)  and Iberdrola Renovables SA led a surge in
Spanish renewable-energy stocks after the government announced a
preliminary agreement with industry trade groups on subsidized
electricity prices.  
 Abengoa soared 9.1 percent to 18.02 euros, the biggest gain
this year, and Iberdrola Renovables climbed 5.1 percent to 2.74
euros. Acciona SA advanced 7.4 percent to 66.55 euros.  
 “We believe the immaterial impact to the company together
with certainty around the funding environment and no retroactive
cut, which the market had feared, are positive for Iberdrola
Renovables,” Barclays Plc analyst Rupesh Madlani wrote in a
report today.  
 Separately, U.S. President  Barack Obama  announced $1.85
billion in loan guarantees to Abengoa’s Abengoa Solar unit and
Abound Solar Inc. to build sun-powered facilities in the U.S.
that he said will create thousands of new jobs.  
 Abertis Infraestructuras SA (ABE)  surged 12 percent to 13.56
euros before the shares of were suspended. Criteria CaixaCorp
SA, which owns 28.5 percent of Abertis, and Actividades de
Construccion y Servicios SA with 25.8 percent are holding talks
with CVC Capital Partners Ltd. over different outcomes for
Spain’s biggest highway operator, a person with knowledge of the
situation said.  
 The Financial Times reported earlier today that Abertis’s
two main shareholders are looking into a potential leveraged
buyout with CVC that would value the company at 25 billion euros
($31.3 billion).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 5 (Bloomberg) -- Lothar Mentel, chief investment officer at Octopus Investments Ltd., talks about the outlook for the economy, equities and company earnings.
     Mentel speaks with Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
