-- Ex-TCI Asia Head John Ho Raises More Than $100 Million for Asia Hedge Fund
-- Bei Hu
-- 2010-07-05T06:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/ex-tci-asia-head-john-ho-raises-more-than-100-million-for-asia-hedge-fund.html

          
          
             John Ho , former Asia head of the
Children’s Investment Fund Management UK LLP, raised more than
$100 million from investors for his own hedge fund which bets on
rising and falling stocks in the region.  
 Janchor Partners Pan Asian Fund started trading in January
with about $40 million, mostly from U.S. university endowments
and family offices, Hong Kong-based Ho, 34, said in an interview
on July 2. It returned 9.9 percent after fees through June 30,
against the estimated 2 percent loss of the  Eurekahedge Asia
Long/Short Equities Hedge Fund Index .  
 The inflow into Ho’s fund contrasts with the trend of new
and small Asian hedge fund managers struggling to grow assets
amid heightened competition for capital. More than 90 percent of
the money raised by Janchor is locked up for three years, even
as global investors have demanded greater freedom to withdraw
their capital in the wake of the credit crisis.  
 “Investor appetite for longer lockups is greatly
diminished,” said  Harvey Twomey , Hong Kong-based head of
Deutsche Bank AG’s prime finance institutional client group in
Asia-Pacific. “But for the right strategy with a compelling
high-quality team, it is still possible to attract longer-dated
monies.”  
 The lockup allows the fund to make investments over a
longer period where competition is less intense, said Ho. In
return, it lures investors with promises to align the managers’
interests with theirs through lower fees and a pledge to return
part of the performance fees if a profitable year is followed by
a losing year, he added.  
 Long-Term Capital  
 “The capital that’s coming into Asia is generally shorter-
term, and capital constrains investment strategy,” Ho, Janchor
Partners Ltd.’s chief investment officer, said. “We only raise
long-term capital because we want to focus on doing longer-term
investing. The fees are a little lower to reflect that it’s
long-term capital.”  
 Seventy-five new Asia-focused hedge fund firms started
since 2009 with an average $16.9 million and now manage about
$28.9 million each, according to data compiled by Eurekahedge
Pte in Singapore.  
 Ho left London-based Children’s Investment Fund, founded by
Christopher Cooper-Hohn and also known as TCI, in July 2009 to
set up Janchor, a play on the initial of his first name and the
word “anchor,” with four former TCI colleagues.  
 He led TCI’s three-year battle to press  Electric Power
Development Co. , Japan’s largest electricity wholesaler better
known as J-Power, for higher dividends, disposal of cross-
shareholding and the appointment of independent board members.  
 Long-Short  
 Janchor, a long-short equity fund, uses research on
companies’ financial and industry prospects to pick the stocks
it wants to buy and short in markets including Hong Kong, China,
Taiwan, Japan, Australia, South Korea and India. It doesn’t
employ the activist approach often used by TCI, as in the case
of J-Power, Ho said.  
 The top 20 stock picks will account for 90 percent of the
Janchor fund’s investments, he added.  
 About 60 percent of Janchor’s profits in the first six
months came from long investments, Ho said. It made the
remaining 40 percent of profit from shorting, or selling
borrowed shares expecting their prices to fall, single stocks.  
 Janchor selects stocks to buy in industries with high entry
barriers among companies with sound business plans and good
management, Ho said, declining to identify the investments. It
analyses expected returns over a two- to four-year period, said
Ho, who worked for Citadel Investment Group LLC in Chicago
before joining TCI in 2004.  
 Recovery Threats  
 The fund shorts single stocks with a flawed business model
and broken corporate governance. It seeks to generate profit
from short-selling instead of using the strategy only for
hedging risks of long investments, Ho said.  
 Concerns about the European sovereign debt crisis and
higher returns in developed markets are threatening a recovery
in Asian hedge fund assets. Investors took $700 million out of
the $77 billion Asian industry in the first quarter, according
to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  
 Almost 60 percent of the global hedge fund investors a
Deutsche Bank survey released in March said they wouldn’t accept
lockup of their capital for more than a year.  
 The Janchor fund charges a management fee of 1.6 percent of
assets under management, with the rate declining when the assets
base gets bigger, said Ho.  
 Lower Fees  
 The performance fee, equivalent to 16 percent of annual
profit, is paid over three years, he said. Under the arrangement,
the fund manager receives one-third of the annual performance
fee at the end of the year with the rest being put in an escrow
account. For any annual loss within the next two years, as much
as two-thirds of the accrued fee during that initial year is
returned to investors.  
 Hedge funds, loosely regulated pools of money, often charge
a 2 percent management and 20 percent performance fee.  
 Ho, who opened TCI’s Hong Kong office, declined to comment
on his investment performances at TCI and Citadel, or his
reasons for leaving because of legal agreements with his former
employers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Children's Investment Fund Director John Ho  
                       
                         
                           Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Children's Investment Fund Director John Ho enters a meeting in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Children's Investment Fund Director John Ho enters a meeting in Tokyo. Photographer: Toshiyuki Aizawa/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
