-- Mexico's Opposition PRI Party Won Nine of 12 State Races, Exit Polls Show
-- Jonathan J. Levin
-- 2010-07-05T02:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/mexico-s-opposition-pri-party-won-nine-of-12-state-races-exit-polls-show.html

          
          
             Mexico’s largest opposition party won
governor races in at least nine states in regional elections
today after the bloodiest campaign season since 1994, according
to exit polls.  
 The  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, which ruled
the country for 71 years until 2000, unseated opponents in three
states and held on to governorships in at least six more,
according to exit polls broadcast by television networks  Milenio 
and Foro TV. The PRI lost in Oaxaca, while two other races were
too close to call, the polls showed.  
 The election was overshadowed by rising violence before the
vote, especially along the U.S. border where gangs have been
fighting to control the nation’s drug trade. The PRI
gubernatorial candidate in Tamaulipas state,  Rodolfo Torre Cantu ,
was assassinated June 28. Last month, a mayoral candidate was
shot dead in the same state. This week, a headless body was
found outside the home of another mayoral hopeful.  
 Several incidents of violence occurred while polls were
open today. The brother of Trinidad Pacheco Diaz, a  National
Action Party , or PAN, candidate for mayor in Chihuahua state,
was killed by gunmen, newspaper El Universal reported. In
Durango, an armed group  shut down  a polling station.  
 The cost of protecting Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps has risen 11 basis points
to 137.74 since Torre Cantu was assassinated, according to data
compiled by CMA DataVision.  
 PRI Victories  
 The PRI unseated President  Felipe Calderon ’s PAN in
Tlaxcala and Aguascalientes states, and defeated the  Party of
the Democratic Revolution  in Zacatecas state, according to the
exit polls. It also held onto power in the states of Chihuahua,
Tamaulipas, Durango, Hidalgo, Quintana Roo and Veracruz, while
races were too close to call in Puebla and Sinaloa, the polls
showed.  
 “These elections confirm that the PRI is the biggest
political force in the country,”  Beatriz Paredes , the party’s
head, told reporters in comments broadcast on Milenio Television.
“The information we have shows that our victory is
resounding.”  
 One voting station didn’t open today “because of
insecurity” in the Guadalupe y Calvo municipality of Chihuahua
state, according to Enrique Rodriguez, spokesman for the state
electoral institute.  
 Egidio Torre, who became candidate in Tamaulipas after his
brother was killed, cast his ballot wearing a bullet-proof vest
under his white button-down shirt, according to images broadcast
on Milenio Television.  
 ‘Very Sad’  
 “I’m very proud my brother Rodolfo’s project is starting
to come to true,” Torre said on Foro TV. “I’m still very sad
about the tragedy, but here we are.”  
 Torre Cantu was the highest-level politician to be
assassinated since presidential candidate  Luis Donaldo Colosio 
was killed in 1994.  
 Calderon’s PAN, a pro-business party, formed an alliance
with the opposition Party of the Democratic Revolution, or PRD,
in a bid to unseat the PRI in the states of Oaxaca, Hidalgo,
Sinaloa, Durango and Puebla.  
 The two parties are sharing candidates even after they
fought a controversial presidential election in 2006, in which
Calderon defeated  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  by less than a
percentage point. They also disagree on a wide range of issues,
from abortion to the opening of the energy industry to private
investment.  
 Mexico has turned increasingly violent since Calderon came
to office in December 2006 vowing to fight drug and people
traffickers. More than 22,000 people have been killed in Mexico
in violence related to the drug war since the crackdown began,
according to the U.S. State Department.  
 Mexico’s economy, the second biggest in Latin America, is
forecast by the central bank to grow 4 percent to 5 percent this
year after a 6.5 percent contraction in 2009.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        