-- France Telecom Chief Richard Unveils Five-Year Plan for Networks, Morale
-- Matthew Campbell
-- 2010-07-05T12:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/france-telecom-unveils-five-year-plan-for-networks-to-win-more-clients.html

          
          
             France Telecom SA  unveiled a five-
year plan to win clients, revive morale and put Chief Executive
Officer  Stephane Richard ’s stamp on the company.  
 The four-part program is designed to raise France Telecom’s
customer base to 300 million by 2015, from almost 200 million
now, Richard told reporters in Paris. The plan includes a mix of
new and previously announced goals, including a doubling of
revenue from emerging markets and a 2 billion-euro ($2.5
billion) investment in the domestic fiber network.  
 France Telecom’s new direction follows a series of suicides
that rocked the company and hastened the replacement of former
CEO  Didier Lombard . In April, Richard said the company would
spend as much as 7 billion euros on deals in Africa and the
Middle East to boost emerging-markets growth.  
 “We will rediscover the strategic importance of networks
in the years to come,” Richard said. At the same time, the
Paris-based company will try to revive a “spirit of conquest”
in international activities while avoiding “transformative”
deals, he said.  
 France Telecom  climbed  0.3 percent to 14.25 euros at 2:22
p.m. in Paris trading.  
 France Telecom plans to recruit about 10,000 new employees
between now and 2012, part of a “new social contract” that
will cost about 900 million euros during the period, the company
said in a statement.  
 Workplace Stress  
 At least 37 France Telecom employees have taken their own
lives since January 2008, prompting the company to suspend some
restructuring plans, reconsider the closure of small offices,
and introduce a part-time work plan for older staff. Unions
blamed workplace stress for the deaths.  
 “The new team should be particularly attentive that new
guidelines are perceived as real and concrete by staff,” the
CFE-CGC/UNSA union federation said today in an e-mailed
statement. After a loss of confidence by workers, “it will take
time to get it back,” the union said.  
 Richard today said the company plans to look for
partnerships with producers of digital content to “make a
contribution to the stabilization of content and the search for
a new economic model.” France Telecom last month lost out in a
competition to buy Le Monde, France’s newspaper of record, after
it allied with the Nouvel Observateur magazine for a controlling
stake.  
 The company isn’t currently in talks to purchase stakes in
other papers such as La Tribune, Richard said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris via 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        