-- Canadian Stocks Fall as Energy Shares Slip on Growth Concern; Taseko Drops
-- Matt Walcoff
-- 2010-07-05T20:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/gammon-gold-iesi-bfc-sino-forest-taseko-mines-canadian-equity-preview.html

          
          
             Canadian stocks  fell, sending the
main stock benchmark to the lowest level in eight months, as oil
producers declined after surveys of purchasing managers in
Europe and China indicated slowing economic growth.  
 Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., the country’s second-
largest energy company by market value, dropped 2.7 percent as
oil futures retreated. Copper producer Taseko Mines Ltd. tumbled
20 percent after a Canadian government  panel  said its proposed
Prosperity mine would harm the environment. Teck Resources Ltd.,
Canada’s largest base-metals and coal producer, slumped 4.2
percent as companies that sell to Asia slipped.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  decreased 103.56
points, or 0.9 percent, to 11,092.50, the lowest level since
Nov. 4.  
 “We’re seeing a lot of growth concerns, and that’s working
its way into commodities and the TSX,” said  Youssef Zohny , who
helps manage C$50 million ($47 million) as an associate
portfolio manager at Van Arbor Asset Management Ltd. in
Vancouver. “A lot of the economic data is starting to slow
down. That’s pointing toward a potentially slower second half.”  
 The S&P/TSX had the biggest slump in almost a year  last
week  as statistics on U.S. hiring and factory orders trailed
economist forecasts and the Conference Board lowered its index
of Chinese leading economic indicators.  
 Service Sectors  
 A survey of U.K. service-sector executives on business
conditions released today was less bullish than the median
economist estimate, while a similar survey for the area using
the euro currency showed a decline from May. An  index  of the
Chinese services industry fell for a third month to a 15-month
low, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said.  
 Oil producers fell as crude futures dropped for a sixth
day. Oil declined 0.5 percent to $71.75 a barrel in electronic
trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  
 Canadian Natural lost 2.7 percent to C$34.01. Penn West
Energy Trust, the country’s second-largest energy trust,
decreased 2.7 percent to C$19.96. Nexen Inc., an oil and gas
producer with operations on  five continents , retreated for a
seventh day, slumping 2.2 percent to C$20.37.  
 Teck fell 4.2 percent to C$30.27, the lowest price in
almost nine months. The Asia-Pacific region accounted for 70
percent of the company’s copper sales last year, according to
the company’s  annual report . Western Coal Corp. sank 5.7 percent
to C$3.65.  
 Panel’s Findings  
 Taseko plunged 20 percent, the most since 2006, to C$3.32
after the release of the panel’s findings on the proposed C$3
billion Prosperity copper and gold mine in British Columbia, one
of four company projects.  
 The report says the mine would harm fish habitat,
navigation and land use by Indian groups. Government officials
have 10 weeks in which to submit a response to the report to the
Cabinet, panel spokeswoman Lucille Jamault said.  
 In a press release, the Vancouver-based company said it
remains confident the Cabinet will approve the project after
considering its economic and social benefits.  
 Rogers Communications Inc. dropped for a  seventh day , the
longest slide in a year, declining 1.6 percent to C$34.20.
Canada’s largest wireless carrier last week said it will offer a
mobile-phone service with unlimited talk and texting.  
 To contact the reporter on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        