-- German Bonds Rise on Speculation Sluggish Data to Add to Growth Concerns
-- Lukanyo Mnyanda
-- 2010-07-05T15:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/german-bonds-rise-on-speculation-reports-will-add-to-concerns-about-growth.html

          
          
             German government bonds advanced as a
report showed European retail sales grew less than economists
predicted, boosting demand for fixed income amid concern the
economic recovery is floundering.  
 The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold 10-
year bunds instead of two-year notes was near the least since
December as traders bet inflation will be contained. The
European Central Bank will probably leave its main refinancing
rate at a record low when policy makers meet on July 8,
according to a Bloomberg survey. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  yesterday pressed governments to trim their budget
deficits.  
 “Concerns regarding the double-dip or slow recovery have
re-emerged,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at
WestLB AG in Dusseldorf. Investors are now worried “more with
respect to growth rather than default or systemic risks. That
should continue giving bunds a safe-haven bid,” he said.  
 The 10-year yield fell four basis points to 2.55 percent as
of 4:37 p.m. in London. The 3 percent security due July 2020
gained 0.31, or 3.1 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,255) face amount,
to 103.96. The two-year yield also declined three basis points
to 0.63 percent.  
 That left the spread between the securities at 192 basis
points. It narrowed to 189 basis points on June 1, the least
since Dec. 7. A flattening yield curve suggests greater demand
for longer-dated securities, which are more sensitive to the
outlook for inflation.  
 Budget Deficits  
 Retail sales in the 16 nations that share the euro rose 0.2
percent in May from the month earlier, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had
expected a gain of 0.3 percent, the median of 19 estimates in a
 Bloomberg survey  showed. In the year,  sales  rose 0.3 percent.  
 Bunds gained even as investor sentiment unexpectedly
improved. An index measuring sentiment in the 16-nation euro
region this month advanced to minus 1.3 from minus 4.1, the
Limburg, Germany-based Sentix research institute said today. The
median prediction of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a decline to minus 5.  
 German government bonds rallied this year as speculation
that swelling budget deficits would cause countries such as
Greece to default drove investors to the safest securities.
Investors also bought the bonds amid speculation austerity
measures in the region would hinder growth and prompt the ECB to
keep rates unchanged.  
 “We are in a period where we have to manage budgets very
tightly,” Trichet told journalists in Aix-en-Provence, France
yesterday. “I have no problem with austerity, rigor. I call
this good budgetary management.”  
 ‘Mood of Apprehension’  
 German bonds have returned 6.9 percent in 2010, compared
with 5.7 percent for U.S. Treasuries, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. The MSCI World Index of stocks
has dropped 11 percent.  
 “The overall mood is one of apprehension looking at the
equity markets and bunds are rallying as a function of that,”
said  Toby Nangle , director of asset allocation at Baring Asset
Management, which manages about $43 billion. Investors “appear
to be judging an ugly contest with the decision about what’s
worse. Bonds seem the least worse option,” he said.  
 Greek  government bonds gained , pushing the 10-year yield 20
basis points lower at 10.3 percent. The Portuguese 10-year yield
declined six basis points to 5.37 percent.  
 ‘They Were Cheap’  
 Portugal’s government said last week it aimed to narrow its
budget deficit faster than forecast previously and meet a
European Union limit for a gap of 3 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012, a year earlier than in a previous plan.  
 French bonds rose as a report showed the country’s services
expanded less than economists forecast and investors bet that a
widening in the spread with Germany made the yields attractive.  
 “They were cheap,” said  Peter Chatwell , a London-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in London. “You get
significantly higher returns but without creating too much risk
for yourself” by investing in French rather than German debt,
he said.  
 The 10-year French  bond  yielded 38 basis points more than
similar bunds, down from 56 basis points on June 8, the most
since April 2009. The French 10-year yield decreased five basis
points to 2.92 percent.  
 Spanish 10-year bonds declined, leaving the yield seven
basis points higher at 4.63 percent. The spread with the German
securities widened to 207 basis points, the most since June 17,
according to Bloomberg generic prices.  
 Hidden Losses  
 Spanish savings banks may be hiding losses on home loans by
taking non-performing  mortgages  out of securitized transactions,
according to CreditSights Inc.  
 By carrying the bad loans on their own books the so-called
cajas sidestep downgrades to their mortgage-backed securities,
the independent bond research firm said in a report. The
regional lenders helped fuel the nation’s  real-estate bubble ,
which burst after the collapse of the U.S. subprime market.  
 Spain hired banks to manage a 10-year syndicated bond
issue, according to a banker involved in the sale. Barclays
Capital, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, Caja Madrid, Credit
Agricole, Deutsche Bank AG and Banco Santander SA will manage
the sale, the banker said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        