-- German Lawmakers Clear Way for Vote on Easing Solar Subsidy Reductions
-- Tony Czuczka
-- 2010-07-05T18:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/german-lawmakers-clear-way-for-vote-on-easing-solar-subsidy-reductions.html

          
          
             German lawmakers proposed easing
reductions in solar-power subsidies for three months and cleared
the way for parliament to vote on the cuts by July 9.  
 The proposal, approved today by a committee of both houses
of parliament, changes a government plan to trim subsidies for
solar power fed into Germany’s electricity grid by 16 percent
for rooftop equipment, 15 percent for farmland and 11 percent
for spaces such as former industrial or military sites.  
 The reductions, which the government aims to introduce
retroactively to July 1, would be scaled back by three
percentage points for each category until Sept. 30, when the
full cuts would kick in, according to a statement by
parliament’s upper house, the  Bundesrat , in Berlin.  
 “This clears the way for the final reform of solar-power
subsidies before the end of this week,” said Thomas Kauch,
environmental affairs spokesman in the lower house for the Free
Democrats, Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s junior coalition ally.
It’s a “fair compromise” that offers a “softer landing” for
the solar industry, he said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Upper-house members, who represent the 16 German state
governments, sent the original bill to the reconciliation panel
on June 4. Merkel’s coalition can reject the compromise in the
lower house, or Bundestag, which will debate the amended bill on
July 8. The upper house is scheduled to vote on July 9.  
 Resistance to the deeper subsidy cuts centers on eastern
Germany, where much of the country’s solar industry is based.
Merkel’s government says subsidies must be pared because solar-
panel prices have fallen by as much as 40 percent, causing
overcapacity on the German market.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        