-- Gillard to Outline New Policy on Asylum Seekers Before Calling Election
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-07-05T01:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/gillard-plans-new-asylum-seeker-policy-before-calling-australian-election.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister Julia
Gillard said she’ll announce a new policy shortly on controlling
asylum seekers as she moves to boost support for her Labor Party
before calling an election this year.  
 Gillard last week cut a planned tax on resources profits,
ending a three-month dispute with companies like  BHP  Billiton
Ltd. and  Rio  Tinto Group, an issue that gave Tony Abbott’s
opposition Liberal-National coalition an election-winning lead
in opinion polls.  
 “We as a government want to manage our borders,” Gillard
told reporters in Marysville, Victoria state, yesterday. “I’m
certainly going to have something to say on the question of
asylum seeker policy in coming days.”  
 Gillard on June 24 ousted former Prime Minister Kevin Rudd,
whose border protection policies were blamed for an influx in
asylum seekers. About 3,532 arrived on 75 boats so far this year,
Immigration Department figures show, compared with 2,726 on 60
boats in 2009.  
 The government’s ban on processing new asylum claims from
Afghanistan and Sri Lanka is due to expire on July 8. Australia
will  accept  13,750 refugees and people who qualify under special
humanitarian rules in the 12 months ending June 30, 2010, up
from 13,507 in the previous year.  
 “I can understand the concerns of community members about
this,” Gillard said yesterday. “There’s a deadline looming.”  
 Island Camps  
 Rudd, who won office in November 2007, moved to dismantle
former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s “Pacific Solution” policy
of detaining refugees in island camps in third countries and
pledged to speed up the assessment of asylum claims. In 2008,
the government closed detention centers on Nauru and Manus, a
province of Papua New Guinea.  
 As of July 1, there were 2,573 people in detention on
Christmas Island, an Australian territory more than 800
kilometers (497 miles) off the northwestern coast. Accommodation
is “extremely tight,” an immigration department spokesman said
today.  
 About 1,503 people, who arrived by boat were transferred to
mainland detention centers in Sydney, Darwin, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Perth and regional centers in Curtin and Leonora in
Western Australia and Port Augusta in South Australia state.  
 The opposition has promised to increase border protection
measures, including turning back boats carrying asylum seekers
and processing refugee applications on offshore islands.  
 “For people to say they’re anxious about border security
doesn’t make them intolerant. It certainly doesn’t make them
racist,” Gillard said. “It means that they’re expressing a
genuine view that they’re anxious about border security.”  
 In her first two days in office, Gillard restored Labor’s
advantage in opinion polls, with a Nielsen survey published in
the Age newspaper on June 26 and a Galaxy poll in the Herald Sun
newspaper the same day showing the government now having an
election-winning lead.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard  
                       
                         
                           William West/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard gives a local radio interview during a visit to Marysville in Victoria. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard gives a local radio interview during a visit to Marysville in Victoria. Photographer: William West/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
