-- Van Bronckhorst Seeks World Cup Win as Career's Last Act
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-07-05T22:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/giovanni-van-bronckhorst-seeks-dutch-world-cup-win-as-career-s-last-act.html

          
          
             Playing each game as if it’s your
last is one of soccer’s more popular mantras. For Netherlands
captain  Giovanni Van Bronckhorst , that’s particularly relevant
as his country seeks a first World Cup title.  
 Van Bronckhorst, 35, ended his 17-year club career in May
with his retirement from Feyenoord and will move into coaching
after the tournament. The Dutch face Uruguay in the semifinals
today in Cape Town, with the winner facing Spain or Germany in
the July 11 final.  
 “Every game here could have been the last of my career,”
Van Bronckhorst said in an interview after a victory over
tournament favorite Brazil in the quarterfinals. “I’m very
happy that I could play two more games.”  
 The Netherlands, who have won all 13 qualifying and
tournament matches for the 2010 World Cup, are on the brink of
their first final since 1978, when they lost to host Argentina.
That defeat followed a loss to West Germany in the previous
championship decider in Munich.  
 The Oranje, as the Dutch team is known, were outplayed by
Brazil in the first half of their July 2 match in Port Elizabeth
and were trailing at halftime to  Robinho ’s 10th-minute goal.  
 Wesley Sneijder  tied the game after his free kick deceived
goalkeeper Julio Cesar and went into the net via the head of
midfielder Felipe Melo. Sneijder scored again to seal the
Netherlands’ first World Cup win over Brazil since 1974.  
 “It gives a lot of confidence if you can beat Brazil,”
said former Netherlands defender  Frank De Boer . “But you can’t
walk around for two, three days thinking ‘We beat Brazil.’ You
have to focus on the next game.”  
 Knockout Blows  
 Van Bronckhorst has experienced previous letdowns, having
been part of five squads that failed to build on good starts at
major tournaments as the Netherlands exited in the knockout
rounds.  
 Van Bronckhorst is playing in his third World Cup. He and
fellow defender  Andre Ooijer  are the only members of the squad
that lost to Brazil on penalties in the 1998 semifinal.
Teammates from that year including De Boer and  Phillip Cocu  are
on the current coaching team.  
 “If you’d told me that I would be here when I moved back
to Holland I wouldn’t have believed it,” said Van Bronckhorst,
who returned home after winning the Champions League with
Barcelona in 2007. “I’ve experienced many good moments and
World Cups but I’ve never reached the final.”  
 Bert Van Marwijk , who previously coached Van Bronckhorst at
Feyenoord, appointed the son of Indonesian immigrants as captain
after he took charge of the national team in 2008. Van
Bronckhorst became the fourth Dutchman to play 100 times for his
country in its World Cup opener against Denmark.  
 ‘Quiet Guy’  
 “He is not someone who bosses people around and yells,”
Van Marwijk said before the Netherlands’ June 24 win over
Cameroon. “He is a very quiet guy who has the respect of all
the players, and that is very important.”  
 The Netherlands team, which has experienced high-profile
internal disputes at previous tournaments, has presented a
united front in South Africa. As well as the captain, the coach
deserves credit, according to striker  Robin Van Persie .  
 “The manager, he’s a winner,” Van Persie told reporters
after the Brazil game. “We have lots of meetings and he always
tells us we have to believe in each other and help each other.
Uruguay will be tough opponents but we believe we can do it.”  
 For Van Bronckhorst, who made his international debut in
1996, the squad has the “hunger” and “belief” to give him
the chance to lift the World Cup in what would be his last game.  
 “We are getting closer and closer,” he said. “Thinking
that two more wins and we’re world champions gives you
confidence and determination to do it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Cape Town through the London sports desk at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Netherlands' defender Giovanni van Bronckhorst wearing a Brazil jersey, celebrates his team's win over Brazil. Photographer: Pierre-Philippe Marcou/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
