-- Gitanjali to Open 500 Jewelry Stores in World's Biggest Gold-Buying Nation
-- Malavika Sharma
-- 2010-07-05T12:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/gitanjali-to-open-500-jewelry-stores-in-world-s-biggest-gold-buying-nation.html

          
          
             Gitanjali Gems Ltd. , India’s biggest
jewelry retailer, plans to open about 500 stores by the end of
the financial year as it seeks to tap demand in the world’s
biggest gold-buying nation.  
 The company plans to add 300,000 square feet of retail
space in the year through March 31, up from its current 1
million square feet,  Mehul Choksi , chairman of Gitanjali, said
in a telephone interview from New Delhi. The company also plans
to expand in China and the Middle East, he said.  
 The retailer is expanding in Asia’s third-biggest economy
as economic growth and rising incomes raise demand for gold and
diamonds, especially for use at weddings and religious festivals,
such as the Akshaya Tritiya holy day when many Hindus buy gold.
Jewelers, including Gitanjali, have countered rising prices for
gold and diamonds by offering cheaper products.  
 “When prices go up that doesn’t mean the product isn’t
popular, it’s just that you have to redesign the jewelry to
reach out to more people,” Choksi said.  
 Shares  in Gitanjali rose 0.6 percent to 127.4 rupees at the
close of trading in Mumbai, approaching its highest level since
Jan. 14. They earlier rose as much as 1.1 percent. The benchmark
Bombay Stock Exchange  Sensitive Index  declined 0.1 percent.  
 The company, based in Mumbai, aims to raise its share of
India’s jewelry market to 5 percent from 3 percent, Choksi said.
He didn’t say by when the company plans to achieve the target.  
 The government estimates economic growth will accelerate to
8.5 percent in the financial year ending March 31, from 7.4
percent in the previous 12 months.  
 Rising Salaries  
 Salaries in India may increase at the fastest pace in the
Asia Pacific region this year, according to human resources
adviser Hewitt Associates Inc.  
 Gold reached a record $1,265.30 an ounce on June 21 as
investors sought to buy the metal to protect their wealth amid
concern that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis may derail the
global economic recovery.  
 Gitanjali, which bought Samuels Jewelers Inc. in 2006 and
Rogers Ltd. in 2007 to expand in the U.S., said while it will
watch the market carefully, its expansion will focus on India,
China and the Middle East.  
 “The retail environment in the U.S. has picked up this
year considerably but we still need to watch,” Choksi said.
“In Japan, the recession has stayed for 20 years, so we don’t
know what will happen in the U.S.”  
 The company plans to double the number of stores in China
to 100 in the next three years, Choksi said. Gitanjali also
plans to open its first company-owned outlet in the Middle East,
where its products are currently sold through 50 non-exclusive
jewelry stores, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saikat Chatterjee  in New Delhi at 
 schatterjee4@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        