-- Global Companies Put Financing Plans on Hold, RBC Capital Survey Finds
-- Doug Alexander
-- 2010-07-05T15:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/global-companies-put-financing-plans-on-hold-rbc-capital-survey-finds.html

          
          
             Companies are putting plans to raise
capital on hold even though they expect economic growth to
resume during the next two years, according to an  RBC Capital
Markets  survey of 440 global executives.  
 Just 38 percent of the companies expect to raise capital in
the next two years as they see a “gradual return” to
takeovers, private equity deals, project financing and initial
public offerings, according to the survey conducted by the
Economist Intelligence Unit.  
 “As economic growth in the major economies resumes, we
expect a more positive environment for deal making and
fundraising activities,”  Doug Guzman , RBC’s head of global
investment banking, said in a statement. “Corporates and
financial institutions entering the market will undoubtedly face
greater competition for limited capital.”  
 The most popular choices for raising money are private
equity, at 37 percent, and syndicated loans, at 35 percent, the
survey found. That was followed by investment-grade debt, at 25
percent, secondary equity offerings and securitizations, both at
14 percent, and IPOs at 11 percent.  
 Economic uncertainty is considered the greatest risk to
fundraising, followed by political uncertainty and fluctuating
currencies, RBC said.  
 The survey conducted from April 28 to May 25 polled
executives worldwide, with 34 percent in North America, 41
percent in Europe, 16 percent in Asia and 9 percent elsewhere.
Respondents included 229 senior executives from commercial and
investment banks, hedge funds and private equity firms, and 211
executives from non-financial companies active in the capital
markets.  
 RBC Capital Markets is the investment banking unit of
Toronto-based  Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s largest lender
by assets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        