-- Greek Shipowners Waiting for Lower Prices to Buy Vessels, RBS Banker Says
-- Alaric Nightingale
-- 2010-07-05T10:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/greek-ship-owners-wait-for-lower-prices-to-expand-fleets-rbs-banker-says.html

          
          
             Greek shipowners, who account for
more vessel orders than any other nation, are waiting for prices
to drop before expanding their fleets, according to Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, their largest lender.  
 The cost of a new 2 million-barrel carrying supertanker has
climbed 5 percent this year to $104 million following a 33
percent slide in 2009, according to the research unit of
Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker. Prices for iron
ore-carrying capesizes, too big to navigate the Panama Canal,
advanced 6.3 percent to $59.5 million a vessel, Clarkson said.  
 “Prices are more likely to go down than go up,”  Lambros Varnavides , RBS’s head of credit to the shipping industry, said
in an interview in London on July 1. “Yards still have large
order books which they are working their way through. Once they
work their way through that, they will be more desperate for new
orders.”  
 Greek owners and operators have the largest order book of
any nation as measured by compensated gross tons, with contracts
for 19.2 million tons of new carriers, more than Germany or
China, according to Clarkson’s research unit,  Clarkson Research
Services Ltd.  Oil tanker and commodity transporter prices
advanced this year as economic growth boosted demand for
seaborne trade, it said.  
 Greece, Germany  
 Compensated gross tons take account of the work that goes
into constructing different types of vessel. On that basis,
Germany has orders for 16.8 million tons and Chinese orders come
to 15.2 million tons, according to Clarkson.  
 By number of vessels, German owners have the greatest order
book at 933 vessels, compared with 857 for Greece and 710 for
China, according to Clarkson.  
 Varnavides predicted in January 2009 that as many as half
of publicly traded commodity shipping lines may breach their
loan covenants after a record collapse in hire rates in 2008.  
 Any breaches would have enabled banks to strengthen loan
terms or to get cash from borrowers who wanted to maintain their
original financing terms, he said.  
 The ratio of losses on RBS’s shipping loans has averaged 2
basis points, or 0.02 percent, in the past 20 years, according
to Varnavides, who joined the bank’s shipping department in
August 1974. He said he expects that trend to continue for the
next several years. The bank’s shipping department is expanding
lending, while the unit’s so-called non-core shipping lending
has dropped, he said.  
 RBS has provided about $23 billion of credit to shippers,
of which $20 billion has actually been borrowed, he said. In
January last year, it had provided $25 billion of credit.  
 Commodity shipping costs measured by the  Baltic Dry Index 
have dropped 24 percent this year as a surplus of ships for hire
overwhelmed demand. The fleet capacity of vessels for dry bulk
commodities, such as iron ore and coal, will expand 16 percent
this year, according to Clarkson.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        