-- Greece Considers Returning to Credit Markets Next Year as Economy Improves
-- Christos Ziotis
-- 2010-07-05T12:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/greece-considers-return-to-bond-market-next-year-as-budget-deficit-narrows.html

          
          
             Greece may beat a target to reduce
the European Union’s second-widest budget deficit, allowing the
country to return to markets to raise debt, Finance Minister
 George Papaconstantinou  said.  
 “Our hope is to tap markets sometime in 2011,” though
Greece can hold off until 2012, Papaconstantinou told reporters
in Athens today. A planned auction of short-term Treasury bills
this month isn’t considered “a return to markets,” he said.  
 Euro-area leaders and the International Monetary Fund
agreed in early May to extend 110 billion euros ($138 billion)
in emergency loans to Greece, which faced soaring borrowing
costs amid investor concerns it would default on its debt. In
exchange for the aid, the government vowed to implement
austerity measures of almost 14 percent of gross domestic
product over four years.  
 Papaconstantinou said a government forecast for the economy
to contract 4 percent this year is “overly pessimistic.”
Initial signs show the economy shrank 3 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, he said, following a 2.5 percent
retreat in the first quarter.  
 EU and IMF officials are monitoring Greece’s economic
performance to sign off on the loans, with the next tranche of 9
billion euros due in late August or early September, according
to Papaconstantinou. A final 9 billion euros will be paid before
the year ends, he said. The team of inspectors will return to
Athens from July 20 through Aug. 6, he said.  
 Revenue Collection  
 The country may need no additional deficit-reduction
measures if it adheres to its austerity plan, Papaconstantinou
said. While he said revenue income remains a risk with Greece
“slightly behind in targets” in the first six months of the
year, it is set to beat its deficit goal on spending cuts. The
budget shortfall stood at 4.9 percent of GDP in the first half,
compared with a target of 5.8 percent for the period, he said.  
 Revenue next year will be aided by a planned increase in
the so-called objective values for real estate, Papaconstantinou
said. Taxes on real-estate transactions in Greece are based on
the government’s assessment of the property’s value, which
considers the area and the amenities, rather than the actual
market value, which is generally higher.  
 Prime Minister George Papandreou has raised taxes, cut
wages and reduced spending in a bid to tame a deficit that
reached 13.6 percent of GDP last year, more than four times the
EU limit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Weeks  in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
 Christos Ziotis  in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        