-- GTL Said to Consider $3 Billion Stock Issue to Buy Reliance's Phone Towers
-- Ketaki Gokhale
-- 2010-07-05T11:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/gtl-said-to-consider-3-billion-stock-issue-to-buy-reliance-s-phone-towers.html

          
          
             GTL Infrastructure Ltd.  may give new
shares worth as much as $3 billion, more than triple its market
value, to  Reliance Communications Ltd.  shareholders in exchange
for the company’s mobile-phone towers, two people familiar with
the matter said.  
 GTL, based in Mumbai, may also assume about 180 billion
rupees ($3.9 billion) of Reliance’s debt, the people said,
asking not to be identified because the talks are private. The
terms would give Reliance shareholders a 75 percent  stake  of the
transmission tower entity the two companies last month agreed to
form, said G.V. Giri, an analyst at IIFL Capital Ltd. in Mumbai.  
 GTL and Reliance on June 27 said they intend to create
India’s second-largest wireless-transmission network in a deal
that would help reduce debt at billionaire  Anil Ambani ’s
Reliance Communications. The share issue being considered may
make it harder for the companies to attract new customers to the
towers by leaving Reliance, India’s No. 2 mobile provider, in
control of them, Giri said.  
 “To avoid letting the company look operator-owned, they’ve
got to find outside investors as well,” Giri said. “Being an
operator-owned company is fine, but your tenancy won’t go up
that way. There’s no value creation. Value creation happens by
raising tenancy, not the number of towers, and for that, the
company has to be neutral.”  
 GTL  dropped  4.3 percent in Mumbai trading to 43.85 rupees,
its biggest decline since June 8. Reliance  fell  2.8 percent to
185.5 rupees. The benchmark Sensitive Index slipped 0.1 percent.  
 Double Tower Assets  
 Adding Reliance’s transmission towers would more than
double GTL’s to about 80,000 from 33,000. GTL in January agreed
to buy 17,500 towers from Aircel Ltd. for 84 billion rupees.
GTL’s market value is about 42.1 billion rupees, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 Terms of the share issue GTL is considering are subject to
discussion with a final agreement expected within six months,
the people familiar with the matter said.  
 GTL spokesman  Vikas Arora  declined to comment. Mumbai-based
Reliance also said by e-mail that it won’t comment.  
 Reduce Reliance’s Debt  
 Reliance said on June 14 the tower sale will lead to a
reduction of debt. The mobile-phone operator’s debt exceeded
cash and cash equivalents by 199 billion rupees as of March 31,
according to the phone company’s latest quarterly  report . The
company also paid 85.9 billion rupees for the right to use
third-generation spectrum in a recent government auction of
airwaves.  
 Assets of Reliance Infratel, as the tower unit is called,
include an optical-fiber cable network of 190,000 kilometers,
according to a June 16 report from HDFC Securities Ltd. Tata
Teleservices Ltd., NTT DoCoMo Inc.’s Indian partner, and Uninor,
a venture between India’s Unitech Ltd. and Norway’s  Telenor ASA 
are among Infratel’s customers.  
 Separately, Reliance plans to sell a 26 percent stake in
itself at an “appropriate” premium to the market price, to a
strategic buyer or a private equity firm, the company said in an
e-mailed statement on June 6.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        