-- Gulf Finance House Expects Accord on $100 Million Loan Extension in July
-- Dana El Baltaji
-- 2010-07-05T14:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/gulf-finance-house-expects-accord-on-100-million-loan-extension-in-july.html

          
          
             Gulf Finance House EC , the Bahrain-
based investment bank, aims to reach an accord with its
creditors this month to extend the maturity of a $100 million
Islamic loan by three years as it seeks to defer asset sales.  
 “We’re in the documentation stage to extend the facility
for up to three years and we expect the deal to be completed
sometime this month,” Group Chief Executive Officer Ted Pretty
said in a phone interview today. “We felt that 2010 is not going
to be a good enough market to sell valuable assets.”  
 The global financial crisis cut liquidity and lending,
while Middle East property prices slumped, hurting investors in
real-estate projects in the region. Gulf Finance House took a
$300 million non-cash charge and cut liabilities by $290 million
after exiting its investment in Dubai’s Dubailand development.  
 Gulf Finance said Feb. 10 it repaid a $200 million loan to
the group of 32 lenders led by German bank WestLB AG and
refinanced another $100 million through a six-month facility.
The bank expects to reach an agreement with creditors on the
$100 million facility before Aug. 10, the date of its maturity,
Gulf Finance said in a statement to the Bahrain bourse today.  
 The company’s  net loss narrowed  to $7.5 million in the
first quarter of this year from a loss of $607 million in the
fourth quarter of 2009. Gulf Finance shares jumped most in
almost two months  35 fils  in Kuwaiti trading today.  
 ‘Breakeven’  
 The bank will likely “breakeven” by the fourth quarter as
operating and financing costs decline, and it plans to start an
Islamic finance unit with an initial asset base of $200 million
in the third quarter, Pretty said. The lender has also asked
Standard & Poor’s to stop coverage of its debt, he added.  
 “I don’t see the commercial benefit in maintaining the
rating,” Pretty said. “It’s not our intention to go back to the
market” as the company expects its financing to come from
operating revenue and the sale of “non-core assets,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        