-- Iberdrola Renovables, Acciona Climb After Agreement on Subsidized Prices
-- Todd White
-- 2010-07-05T10:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/iberdrola-renovables-supports-accord-with-government-on-subsidized-rates.html

          
          
             Iberdrola Renovables SA, Spain’s
biggest operator of wind-power plants, rose in Madrid trading
after the government announced a preliminary agreement with
renewable-energy trade groups on subsidized electricity prices.  
 The  shares  gained as much as 7.9 percent in Madrid while
 Acciona SA , a domestic competitor, advanced 6.5 percent.  Gamesa
Corp. Tecnologica SA , Spain’s biggest wind-turbine maker, rose
as much as 3.2 percent.  
 The accord, announced by the industry ministry after the
market closed on July 2, includes limits on the number of hours
wind-energy and solar-thermal plants can earn subsidized prices
for selling their emission-free power.  
 “In principle, these measures would guarantee regulatory
stability as well as the need to obtain a reasonable return on
investments in the long term,”  Antonio Cruz , an analyst at
Banesto Bolsa SA in Madrid, said today in a research note.  
 EDP Renovaveis SA , the renewable-energy unit of Portuguese
utility EDP-Energias de Portugal SA that owns wind parks in
Spain, climbed as much as 7.1 percent in Lisbon. In contrast,
the benchmark WilderHill New Energy Global Innovation Index of
88 renewable-energy stocks rose 0.3 percent.  
 The agreement “eliminates regulatory uncertainty,”
Iberdrola Renovables said today in an e-mailed statement. The
unit of  Iberdrola SA , Spain’s largest power utility, said it
“brings stability to future revenue of wind energy companies and
guarantees that future revenue with reasonable rates for the
sector.”  
 35% Rate Cut  
 The ministry said the agreement, which hasn´t been enacted
into law, was struck with the wind-energy and solar-power trade
groups Asociacion Eolica Empresarial and Protermosolar. Among
the measures are a reduction of 35 percent in the planned
premiums for wind energy by 2013.  
 Iberdrola Renovables has renewable-energy plants in Spain
with 5,566 megawatts of capacity. The Bilbao-based parent,
Iberdrola SA, the world’s largest owner of wind parks, now
generates more than half its power  outside Spain  and almost two-
thirds of its planned gross investment through 2012 will be in
the U.S. and the U.K.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .
Todd White in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        