-- India May Levy Sugar Import Tax in August or September, Farm Minister Says
-- Pratik Parija
-- 2010-07-05T13:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/india-may-levy-sugar-import-tax-in-august-or-september-farm-minister-says.html

          
          
             India, the world’s largest sugar
buyer, may decide on imposing duty on imports in August or
September, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said.  
 The levy may be effective from the new crop year starting
Oct. 1, Pawar told reporters in New Delhi today. India deferred
a decision on June 25 to slap a tariff on the refined variety,
citing high domestic prices, a government official said.  
 The South Asian nation allowed duty-free imports as prices
doubled last year after dry weather reduced domestic production
and excess rain damaged the crop in Brazil, the biggest grower.
White, or refined, sugar for October delivery rose as much as
2.7 percent to $505 a metric ton in London.  
 India has allowed duty-free imports of white and raw sugar
until Dec. 31 to bolster supplies and cool food-price inflation.
The Indian Sugar Mills Association has been seeking a tax to
encourage purchases of domestic supplies that are forecast to
increase enough to meet demand.  
 Sugar stockpiles will jump 53 percent in the year ending
Sept. 30, according to the association. The nation will end the
season with 4.9 million tons of the sweetener compared with 3.2
million tons a year ago, the producers’ group  said  on June 14.  
 Sugar Production  
 Sugar production in India, the world’s biggest user, will
be 24 million to 25 million metric tons in the year starting Oct.
1 because of an increase in the area planted to cane,  Vinay Kumar , managing director of the National Federation of
Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd., said in a telephone interview
on July 1. There won’t be any need to import the sweetener, he
said.  
 “If this situation continues, this is the proper time to
lift control on sugar,” Farm Minister Pawar said.  
 The government controls the sugar market by telling mills
how much they should sell each month.  
 Pawar, 69, said he met Prime Minister Manmohan Singh today
and asked the premier to ease his work burden. Pawar, who
currently heads two ministries, wants to devote more time to
serve his Nationalist Congress Party, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
 Pratik Parija  in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        