-- Indonesia Keeps Interest Rate at Record-Low 6.5%, Bucking Regional Trend
-- Novrida Manurung
-- 2010-07-05T10:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/indonesia-keeps-interest-rate-at-record-low-6-5-bucking-regional-trend.html

          
          
             Indonesia kept interest rates
unchanged for an 11th month, bucking a trend from Taiwan to
India, as policy makers judge they have time to strengthen
economic growth before responding to faster inflation.  
 Bank Indonesia maintained its reference rate at 6.5
percent, it said in Jakarta today. All 18 economists in a
 Bloomberg News survey  had expected the decision. The measure is
at the lowest level since its introduction in July 2005.  
 Indonesia has held out as Asia-Pacific peers including
Taiwan, Australia, India and Malaysia raised borrowing costs
this year, even as inflation accelerated in Southeast Asia’s
largest economy. The central bank said today it expects
“inflation pressure” in the coming months and economic growth
may reach the upper end of its estimated 5.5 percent-to-6
percent range this year.  
 “The central bank could probably afford to remain patient
for a little longer,” said  David Cohen , an economist at Action
Economics in Singapore. “Central bank officials have indicated
patience, though we look for them to begin raising rates before
year-end” to contain inflation, he said.  
 The rupiah was little changed at 9,068 per dollar at 4:41
p.m. local time, even as regional currencies gained today on
speculation economic expansion will give policy makers the
confidence to raise interest rates.  
 India’s Move  
 Faster inflation prompted India’s central bank on July 2 to
boost its benchmark interest rates by a quarter point each,
saying it will “take further action as warranted.”  
 “Policy normalization is the new trend in Asia, with
officials across the region hiking rates and gradually
withdrawing the stimulus put in place in 2009,”  Brian Jackson ,
a Hong Kong-based strategist at Royal Bank of Canada, said in a
note after today’s decision. “Bank Indonesia has yet to join
this trend, but its rhetoric today definitely suggests there is
an increased focus on inflation pressures.”  
 Indonesia’s consumer prices rose 5.05 percent in June, the
biggest gain since May 2009, on higher food costs, a report
showed last week.  
 Bank Indonesia will monitor inflationary pressures and
adjust its monetary policy as needed so that consumer price
gains will remain in the target of between 4 percent and 6
percent this year and next, it said in a statement today. The
country’s inflation pressure is “not permanent,” Senior Deputy
Governor  Darmin Nasution  told reporters in Jakarta.  
 Credit Growth  
 President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono , who won a second five-
year term in 2009, has pledged to boost public spending to
achieve average annual growth of 6.6 percent, and the central
bank has urged lenders to expand credit. Lending at Indonesia’s
banks rose 18.6 percent at the end of June from a year earlier,
and may increase 22 percent to 24 percent in 2010, the central
bank said.  
 “We expect Bank Indonesia’s rate will be held at 6.5
percent until the end of the year,” said  Juniman , chief
economist at PT Bank Internasional Indonesia. “This kind of
rate supports a more accelerated credit growth at around 20
percent to 24 percent and with that our economic growth can be
around 6 percent.”  
 Indonesia’s economy probably expanded 6 percent in the
second quarter, Nasution said today. Growth in 2011 may reach 6
percent to 6.5 percent, he said.  
 Rupiah Gains  
 The rupiah has risen 3.6 percent against the dollar this
year, the third-best performer in Asia, and the main stock index
has climbed 14 percent as an accelerating economy and a
benchmark interest rate that’s higher than those in Japan,
Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines lure investors. Southeast
Asia’s largest economy expanded 5.7 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace in more than a year.  
 PT Bakrieland Development , the nation’s second-largest
property developer by assets, stands to benefit if Bank
Indonesia refrains from raising borrowing costs, the company’s
corporate secretary  Nuzirman Nurdin  said June 30.  
 “The current level of the Bank Indonesia rate will prompt
Indonesian consumers to buy houses,” Nurdin said. The Jakarta-
based company, whose projects include homes in Bogor, 48
kilometers (30 miles) south of the capital, and in Batam island
near Singapore, expects revenue to increase to 1.3 trillion
rupiah ($143 million) this year from 1 trillion in 2009, he
said.  
 Bank Indonesia said today it will “soon” issue a regulation
that will link a bank’s reserve requirement with its loan-to-
deposit ratio, a move economists including  Wellian Wiranto  at
HSBC Holdings Plc say is aimed at boosting credit growth.  
 “The low rates environment will be conducive in Bank
Indonesia’s attempt to push for higher credit growth,”
Singapore-based Wiranto said in a note after the rate decision.
The central bank “appears to think that it needs to do more to
reach its target” for lending growth this year, he said.  
 HSBC doesn’t expect Indonesia to raise interest rates until
January 2011, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aloysius Unditu  in Jakarta at 
 aunditu@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Bank Indonesia Acting Governor Darmin Nasution  
                       
                         
                           Dimas Ardian/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Bank Indonesia Acting Governor Darmin Nasution attends a hearing on the 2011 budget in Parliament, in Jakarta. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Bank Indonesia Acting Governor Darmin Nasution attends a hearing on the 2011 budget in Parliament, in Jakarta. Photographer: Dimas Ardian/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A worker cleans the entrance to the headquarters of Bank Indonesia in Jakarta. Photographer: Dimas Ardian/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A shopper buys meat from a vendor at a market in Jakarta. Photographer: Dimas Ardian/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
