-- ING Mexico Top-Ranked Fund Bets Central Bank May Cut Rates on Inflation
-- Jonathan Roeder
-- 2010-07-05T18:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/ing-mexico-top-ranked-manager-buys-corporate-debt-says-rates-may-decline.html

          
          
             ING Groep NV’s  Mexican pension fund,
the nation’s  best performer  in the past three years, is buying
fixed-rate bonds as a bet that inflation will keep slowing and
may lead the central bank to cut interest rates.  
 Enrique Solorzano , who manages 161 billion pesos ($12.3
billion) in pension fund assets, said Mexico’s central bank may
reduce the nation’s benchmark lending rate to 4.25 percent or 4
percent from the current level of 4.5 percent by yearend.  
 Solorzano’s call pits him against economists who predict
the central bank’s next move will be to raise rates. Banco de
Mexico will boost the benchmark lending rate by 25 basis points
in March of 2011, according to the median forecast of 20
financial firms surveyed in June by Banamex, Citigroup Inc.’s
local unit.  
 “There’s the possibility that interest rates in Mexico
continue dropping,” Solorzano, 49, said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s Mexico City office. “I don’t count out at all the
possibility that the central bank could decide to further reduce
the benchmark rate.”  
 The central bank may make the cuts in the next two or three
months, and low rates make Mexican corporate and mortgage-backed
debt attractive, Solorzano said.  
 The average 36-month gross return of ING’s fund for workers
aged 27 to 36 was  8.14 percent  -- 3 percentage points higher
than its nearest competing fund, managed by  Grupo Financiero
Inbursa SAB , the Mexican bank controlled by the family of
billionaire  Carlos Slim .  
 ‘Most Dynamic’ Area  
 “There’s interest throughout the sector and we in
particular are interested in increasing our positions in Mexican
company debt,” Solorzano said.  
 Solorzano predicted more Mexican companies will sell bonds
as interest from investors including pension funds grows.  
 “Unfortunately there are few issuers of debt in Mexico,”
he said. “I think we’ll start seeing more financing
opportunities appear for relatively small companies with
attractive spreads and projects, and gradually we’ll start
seeing more of this kind of thing.”  
 He forecast Mexican pension funds will increase their
corporate debt holdings to 18 to 22 percent of their portfolios
in the next two years. Private Mexican debt currently makes up
 16.7 percent  of the funds’ holdings, according to the website of
Consar, as the national regulator is known.  
 ‘Constant Stream’  
 Mortgage-backed debt is the “most dynamic” area of the
Mexican market, he said.  
 “There’s going to be a constant stream of issuances from
the market and we, perhaps, are going to continue buying,” he
said.  
 Five pension funds managed by Solorzano had an average
year-to-date return of 8.37 percent through May, making them
Mexico’s top performers, according to data from Consar.  
 ING’s portfolio is the  third-largest  out of Mexico’s 15
pension funds, trailing only those managed by the local units of
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA  and  Citigroup.   
 Mexico’s consumer prices fell in the first half of June,
surprising analysts who had predicted they would rise as
economic growth accelerates. Annual inflation slowed to the
lowest level since December.  
 Latin America’s second-biggest economy is recovering from a
6.5 percent contraction last year, the biggest slump since 1932.
The central bank forecasts growth of 4 percent to 5 percent this
year.  
 Solorzano said inflation will probably continue to slow and
Mexico’s economy will likely grow about 4.5 percent this year.  
 “I think inflation in Mexico is clearly in a downward
trend,” he said.  
 The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent peso bond due in 2024 has
dropped 110 basis points, or 1.10 percentage point, to 7.17
percent this year, according to Banco Santander SA. The price of
the security has climbed 10.65 centavos to 125.43 centavos per
peso.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Roeder  in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim. Photographer: David Rochkind/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
