-- Apple's IPhone Debut Floods Market With Used Models
-- Ryan Flinn
-- 2010-07-06T20:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/iphone-s-record-setting-debut-floods-secondhand-market-with-older-models.html

          
          
             Apple Inc. ’s record-setting debut of
the iPhone 4 has led to another surge: a flood of old iPhones
hitting EBay, recyclers and discount sites.  
 Gazelle.com, a site that buys electronics from consumers,
purchased 20,000 used iPhones in the two weeks after Apple and
AT&T Inc. began taking preorders for the iPhone 4. That compares
with 350 in a typical two-week period.  
 “It’s off the charts,” said Kristina Kennedy, a
spokeswoman for Boston-based  Gazelle , referring to the influx of
old phones. “It’s three times what we projected.”  
 The yearly introduction of a new iPhone, combined with the
desire of Apple fans to own the company’s latest devices, has
put millions of old phones back in circulation. While many of
these devices are recycled, tossed out or socked away in a
drawer, some can still command hundreds of dollars.
Environmental groups, though, say the constant upgrades
encourage waste.  
 As of July 2, Gazelle offered $168 for a perfect-condition
32-gigabyte iPhone 3GS, last year’s model. The company would
have paid as much as $304 for the same product before the iPhone
4 came out, Kennedy said.  
 The phones can fetch more from secondhand sites than they
cost new from AT&T, the iPhone’s U.S. carrier -- in part because
AT&T offers a subsidized price, dependent on signing a contract.  
 Selling Out  
 Shoppers snapped up 1.7 million iPhone 4s in the three days
after they went on sale, leading Apple Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs  to call it the company’s most successful product
launch. Models costing $199 and $299 debuted in the U.S., U.K.,
Japan, France and Germany on June 24. Many stores, including
 Best Buy Co. , ran out of inventory. In 2009, the 3GS model sold
1 million in its first weekend.  
 EBay Inc.’s site lists thousands of used iPhone 3GSs for
sale, with prices starting as low as 1 cent. The number of
iPhone 3 models -- including the older 3G -- rose 124 percent in
the U.S. between June 5 and June 28, said Katherine Chui, a
spokeswoman for the San Jose, California-based company.  
 EBay has also become a hub for people looking to make a
profit on the iPhone 4, with the average selling price hitting
$942, she said.  
 BuyMyTronics.com , which purchases used electronics, also
saw a rush of customers trying to sell their old iPhones.  
 ‘Went Crazy’  
 “It went crazy,” said Brett Mosley, CEO and founder of
the Denver-based company. In May, it was buying 10 iPhones
daily, he said. “The last two weeks we have averaged almost 40
iPhones a day.”  
 Prices have dropped as a consequence, he said. The phones
fetch about $182 on the site, 35 percent less than at the start
of June.  
 Sellers also are turning to Craigslist Inc., the
classified-advertising website.  
 “Some of the more creative Craigslist users may try to
barter their older phones, and perhaps some of the more generous
users will give their 3s away on our free section of the site,”
said Susan MacTavish Best, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco-
based company.  
 Not everyone thinks trading in an old iPhone is a good
idea. Used electronics often end up getting dumped overseas, in
violation of a United Nations treaty, said Sarah Westervelt, a
policy director for  Basel Action Network , a Seattle-based
environmental advocacy group.  
 Heavy Metals  
 “When millions of us are refreshing our technology with
the latest bells and whistles, there are literally thousands of
truckloads of cell phones going weekly and monthly to other
countries,” Westervelt said.  
 These electronics can contain hazardous materials that
poison the environment, she said.  
 “We think, ‘Hey, I need a new phone,’ and we don’t quite
understand the impacts when these heavy metals and these
immortal elements end up in the water and air and soil of very
poor communities in developing countries,” Westervelt said.  
 Steve Dowling , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, said all of the electronic waste collected by his company
is processed domestically and not shipped overseas.
Internationally, the devices are recycled in the region where
they are collected.  
 Free Mailer  
 Apple accepts iPhones and other devices from customers for
recycling at its retail stores. And it provides a free mailer to
send in old products, he said.  
 BuyMyTronics.com and Gazelle also say their waste isn’t
sent to developing countries.  
 “Everything is recycled in first-world countries,” even
if that means losing out on some financial gain, Mosley said.
“We turn down a lot of business.”  
 Apple  rose $1.69 to $248.63 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading
today.  EBay  climbed 9 cents to $19.35.  
 Eric Hikade, 34, the vice president of products for  KaChing
Group Inc. , waited 90 minutes to buy his new iPhone. He was able
to recoup half the price of the phone by selling his old one on
Gazelle.  
 “The $300 phone doesn’t really cost $300,” said Hikade,
who lives in San Francisco. “Getting money for it helps pay for
the new one. It’s a pretty sweet gig.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The phones can fetch more from secondhand sites  
                       
                         
                           Asa Mathat/All Things Digital via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Apple Inc. chief executive officer Steve Jobs. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Apple Inc. chief executive officer Steve Jobs. Photographer: Asa Mathat/All Things Digital via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
