-- Continental AG Plans at Least $626 Million in Debut High-Yield Bond Sale
-- Sonja Cheung
-- 2010-07-05T15:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/tiremaker-continental-ag-plans-to-sell-junk-bonds-maturing-in-five-years.html

          
          
             Continental AG  is raising at least
500 million euros ($626 million) with a debut issue of high-
yield bonds from Europe’s second-biggest car-parts maker.  
 The company has 8 billion euros of debt to repay by 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The new bonds are part
of a refinancing that follows a 1.1 billion-euro share sale and
a 2.5 billion-euro loan agreement, according to  Antje Lewe , a
spokeswoman for the Hanover-based company.  
 “Conti will find that starting late on refinancing the
2012 maturities won’t help the bond sale, there’s more anxiety
in the market,” said  Cyril Benayoun , a credit analyst at BNP
Paribas SA in London.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold junk debt rather
than government bonds rose 20 basis points to 792 basis points
since the beginning of the year, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. Continental is tapping the market after
growth in the global car industry and cost cutting helped the
company post a first quarterly profit since 2008.  
 Standard & Poor’s cut  Continental ’s debt to B, five steps
below investment grade, from B+ on May 18. Moody’s Investors
Service rates the debt one level higher at B1. High-yield, or
junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  
 Deal Arrangers  
 Citigroup Inc. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are
managing the transaction, along with Commerzbank AG, Deutsche
Bank AG, ING Groep NV, Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg and
UniCredit SpA, according to bankers involved in the sale. DZ
Bank, Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen Girozentrale, Banca IMI SpA
and WestLB AG have been hired as co-managers on the sale, the
bankers said.  
 Continental first lost its investment-grade status in
December 2008 when Moody’s cut its grade to Ba1 from Baa3. S&P
followed suit in January 2009.  
 Continental rose 58 cents, or 1.3 percent, to close at
43.89 euros on the Frankfurt exchange today, valuing the company
at 8.8 billion euros.  
 The company plans to combine with dominant shareholder
Schaeffler Group, the world’s second-biggest roller-bearing
maker, after this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonja Cheung  in London at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        