-- Israel Won't Apologize to Turkey Over Gaza Flotilla Raid, Lieberman Says
-- Benjamin Harvey
-- 2010-07-05T11:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/israel-won-t-apologize-to-turkey-over-gaza-flotilla-raid-lieberman-says.html

          
          
             Israel won’t apologize to Turkey over
the May 31 raid on an aid flotilla heading to the Gaza Strip in
which nine Turkish pro-Palestinian activists were killed,
Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  said.  
 “We don’t have any intention to apologize, we think the
opposite is true,” Lieberman said in a press conference today
during a visit to the Latvian capital, Riga.  
 The incident has severely strained Israel’s political and
military relations with Turkey, once its closest ally in the
Middle East. Israel rejected requests for an international
investigation into the incident, including calls from Turkey,
and set up its own civilian and military inquiries.  
 Turkey won’t wait “forever” for Israel to apologize and
will cut ties if its demands aren’t met, Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  was quoted by  Hurriyet  today as saying.  
 “They have three choices,” Davutoglu said, according to
the Turkish newspaper. “They can apologize, they can accept an
international commission and its report, or relations will be
severed.”  
 “Israel cannot apologize because its soldiers tried to
defend themselves to avoid being lynched by a mob,” Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told Channel One news in a July 2
interview. He told the Israeli channel he had sent Trade
Minister  Binyamin Ben-Eliezer  to meet secretly with Davutoglu
June 30 because it wasn’t in either country’s interest to let
relations deteriorate further.  
 Three-Year Blockade  
 Israel says its soldiers were attacked by activists aboard
one of six ships in the flotilla, after it ignored warnings not
to breach a three-year blockade of the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip.
Israel last month pledged to allow more food and building
materials into Gaza, relaxing an embargo it has enforced since
2007, when the Islamic movement seized full control of the
territory after winning Palestinian parliamentary elections the
previous year.  
 Israel says the blockade is necessary to prevent Hamas from
obtaining more weapons. The group is considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S., the European Union and Israel. The
Hamas charter calls for the destruction of the Jewish state.  
 Hamas leaders say they will renounce violence when Israel
withdraws from territory occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas in Israel from which they fled
in 1948.  
 Military Operation  
 Israel launched a three-week military offensive in Gaza in
December 2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of
rockets by Hamas and other Palestinian militants into its
territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict.  
 More than 400 rockets and mortars have been fired from Gaza
into Israel since the end of the 2008 military operation,
killing one foreign worker last March, the Israeli army said.  
 Palestinians, backed by the United Nations and human-rights
groups, say restrictions on food imports and construction
materials have created a humanitarian crisis. Israel denies that
such a crisis exists, saying it restricts imports of building
materials to Gaza because they can be used to build rockets,
bunkers or bombs. Officials said they were also concerned about
weapons being hidden in food packaging.  
 The Israeli government said June 20 it would loosen the
blockade for shipments by road so that all food will be let in
and only weapons and items with a possible military use are kept
out.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net ;
 Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Israel's foreign minister Avigdor Lieberman. Photographer: Menahem Kahana/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
