-- Israel Releases Guidelines for Imports Into Hamas-Controlled Gaza Strip
-- Calev Ben-David
-- 2010-07-05T17:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/israel-releases-guidelines-for-import-of-construction-material-into-gaza.html

          
          
             Israel announced its guidelines for
imports into the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip, allowing in all
foods and limiting the shipment of construction materials to
goods used in internationally monitored projects.  
 Materials that may have a military application such as
weapons, diving equipment, parachutes and lasers are restricted,
according to a list released today by the  Foreign Ministry  and
Defense Ministry. Building materials are allowed in on condition
that they are used “only for Palestinian Authority-authorized
projects implemented by the international community.”  
 “This list is intended at relaxing the limitations on the
entry of civilian goods into Gaza, while preventing weapons, war
materials and dual-use items from entering the Gaza Strip,” the
Defense Ministry said in an e-mailed statement.  
 The loosening of restrictions follows international
criticism of Israel’s blockade after a May 31 commando raid on a
flotilla of ships trying to breach the embargo in which nine
Turkish pro-Palestinian activists were shot dead. Israel says it
restricts imports of construction materials to Gaza because they
can be used to build rockets, bunkers or bombs.  
 The Cabinet agreed on June 20 to ease the blockade and said
it would replace a list of allowed items with a list of
restricted goods which was released today. For the past three
years, Israel has permitted about 100 basic food products and
consumer items into Gaza, while restricting such goods as
chocolate, jam, potato chips and shaving cream. It started
letting in those items in early June as it began to relax
restrictions.  
 ‘Right Direction’  
 “This is a step in the right direction,” the aid group
Oxfam said in an e-mailed statement. We are “concerned that the
Israeli government announcement does not allow imports of
reconstruction material such as cement, for the civilian
population,” it said.  
 Israel has been blockading Gaza since Hamas seized full
control there in 2007 after winning Palestinian parliamentary
elections the previous year. The group is considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S., the European Union and Israel.  
 Israel says the blockade is necessary to prevent arms
smuggling into a territory ruled by Hamas, which refuses to
recognize the Jewish state or any agreements signed with it.  
 Goods Allowed  
 Israel plans to increase the number of truckloads of goods
allowed into Gaza from 90 per day prior to the June 20 Cabinet
decision, to 250 by mid-July, the Defense Ministry said today.  
 The list of restricted items, which range from fertilizers
to glass fabric tape to water disinfection materials, will be
updated from time to time, the Defense Ministry said.  
 Human rights groups including Amnesty International say
Israel’s embargo has devastated local industries and caused
widespread suffering. Israeli officials have said there is no
humanitarian crisis in Gaza.  
 Israel fought a three-week war in Gaza starting in December
2008 that it said was meant to stop Hamas and other militant
groups from firing rockets into its territory. More than 400
rockets and mortars have been fired from Gaza into Israel since
the end of the operation, killing a foreign worker, the army
said.  
 Israeli bombing and ground operations during the war
destroyed more than 3,000 homes, the United Nations said, and
Israel’s restrictions on construction materials have prevented
Palestinians from being able to rebuild.  
 Israel called on the international community today to
redouble efforts to secure the release of  Gilad Shalit , an
Israeli soldier who was captured by Hamas in a cross-border
attack in 2006. The Red Cross hasn’t been allowed to visit
Shalit since his capture.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David at   cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        