-- Italy's Debt Is Potential `Time-Bomb,' May Lead to Default, Report Says
-- Andrew Davis
-- 2010-07-05T16:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/italy-s-debt-is-potential-time-bomb-may-lead-to-default-report-says.html

          
          
             Italy’s  debt , the highest in the euro
region last year, remains a “potential time bomb” and the
country is at risk of default unless it boosts productivity,
Capital Economics said.  
 “We think the size of the government’s debts will
eventually prompt the markets to turn their sights on Italy,”
Capital Markets Managing Director  Roger Bootle  and chief
European economist  Jonathan Loynes  said in a report today. “A
default is a distinct possibility.”  
 Italian banks would be hard hit by a default and foreign
investors would face losses of 400 million euros ($500 million)
if Italy defaulted and forced bondholders to take a so-called
haircut of 50 percent of their investments, they said. Italian
banks such as UniCredit SpA or Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, which own
about half the government’s debt, would have 80 percent of their
Tier 1 capital wiped out, they said.  
 Italy has so far fared better than other peripheral markets
such as Spain and Portugal since Greece’s near default prompted
investors to spurn their bonds, according to the report. Italy
limited its stimulus spending and emerged from the recession
with a budget deficit of 5.3 percent of gross domestic product,
less than half that of Spain and Greece. That still boosted the
government’s debt to 115.8 percent of GDP.  
 Yields Climb  
 Greece, Spain and Portugal have seen the yield premiums
that investors demand to buy their debt over comparable German
bonds surge on concerns they won’t be able to tame their budget
deficits and that rising financing costs could lead to a
default. Italy, whose debt ratio is more than twice Spain’s, has
seen a smaller increase in that risk premium because it has a
smaller budget deficit, low household debt and a relatively
strong banking system, Capital Markets said.  
 Italy’s debt is almost twice the European Union limit of 60
percent of GDP. To reduce it to 100 percent of GDP in the next
15 years, the country would have to run a primary surplus -- the
budget balance less interest payment -- of 5 percent of GDP.  
 Economic growth averaged just 0.6 percent in the last
decade, and to achieve a primary surplus of that magnitude, the
country will need to lift productivity growth or put up with
years of stagnation, Capital Economics said.  
 “Weak productivity growth means Italy will need to accept
years of wage and cost deflation and economic stagnation if it
is to restore competitiveness within the euro zone,” Bootle and
Loynes said in the report. “With the economy having barely
expanded over the past decade, Italy could be staring at a total
of more than 20 years of stagnation.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at   abdavis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        