-- Japan's Bonds Fall a Third Day as Demand Declines at Auction, Stocks Gain
-- Masaki Kondo
-- 2010-07-06T07:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/japanese-government-bonds-may-rise-as-signs-of-slowdown-buoy-debt-demand.html

          
          
             Japan’s government  bonds  fell for a
third day after demand at an auction of 10-year debt dropped to
the lowest level in three months.  
 Benchmark yields rose to the highest in a week as Asian
stocks rallied, damping demand for the relative safety of debt.
Investors submitted bids for 2.76 times the 2.2 trillion yen
($25.1 billion) of debt the government sold today, down from
3.85 times at the previous auction last month.  
 “The auction turned out be weaker than expected,” said
 Katsutoshi Inadome , a fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s largest banking
group in Tokyo. “An upturn in the equity market also drove the
debt market lower.”  
 The yield on the 10-year bond rose 2.5 basis points to 1.13
percent, the highest since June 29, as of 3:10 p.m. in Tokyo at
Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt
broker. The 1.3 percent security due June 2020 fell 0.228 yen to
101.520 yen.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery declined 0.13
to 141.44 at the afternoon close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific  Index of shares rose 1.2 percent, its
biggest gain in two weeks. The gauge has still fallen 12 percent
from its high this year on April 15 on concern Europe’s debt
crisis and China’s steps to curb property prices will hurt
global growth.  
 China’s  Shanghai Composite  Index climbed 1.4 percent,
rebounding from a 15-month low.  
 Riskier Assets  
 “From a valuation viewpoint, it would not be a surprise if
investors started to consider getting back into riskier
assets,” said  Shigeo Kikuchi , an equity manager at Takagi
Securities Co. in Tokyo.  
 Bonds gained earlier after a report showed China is on
course for its biggest annual increase in Japanese debt holdings
since at least 2005.  
 China’s purchases of Japanese bonds exceeded sales by 541.1
billion yen ($6.2 billion) from January to April, after net
sales of 78.7 billion yen during 2009, according to ministry
 data  released June 8 and reported in the Nikkei newspaper today.  
 “Japanese government bonds aren’t attractive but have
little risk to be sold off by overseas investors,” said  Hiroshi Morikawa , a senior strategist in Tokyo at MU Investments Co.,
which manages about $14 billion. “The news about China’s
purchases may encourage domestic investors to buy more
government bonds.”  
 Annual Return  
 Ten-year yields fell to 1.055 percent on July 1, the lowest
since August 2003. Japan’s government bonds handed investors a
return of 2.2 percent between January and June, the best first
half since 2001, according to an index compiled by Bank of
America Corp’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit.  
 The decline in bonds was also tempered before reports that
economists said will show Japan’s machine orders fell and growth
in German  factory demand  and U.S. service industries slowed.  
 “There is emerging concern that the global economy is
coming to a standstill, as the effects of stimulus measures
wane,” said  Kazuto Uchida , chief economist at Bank of Tokyo
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in Tokyo. “Bonds will continue to draw
decent demand.”  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s index of U.S.  non-
manufacturing businesses , which makes up almost 90 percent of
the U.S. economy, declined to 55 in June from 55.4 a month
earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey before today’s report.  
 German  factory orders  rose 0.3 percent in May after surging
2.8 the previous month, and Japan’s machinery orders declined 3
percent in May, after increasing 4 percent in April, separate
surveys showed before this week’s reports.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net ;
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 Mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        