-- Jupiter Says Singapore's Temasek Interested in South Africa Manganese Mine
-- Rebecca Keenan
-- 2010-07-05T09:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/jupiter-says-temasek-interested-in-tshipi-manganese-mine-in-south-africa.html

          
          
             Jupiter Mines Ltd., an Australian
company developing manganese and iron ore mines, said
Singapore’s state investment company Temasek Holdings Pte is
interested in its Tshipi project. Shares surged.  
 Jupiter is also seeking to raise between A$70 million ($59
million) and A$100 million in a share sale, Jupiter Chairman
 Brian Gilbertson  said on a call with reporters today. The
Tshipi manganese mine in South Africa may cost $200 million and
take 18 months to construct, according to Perth-based Jupiter.  
 Temasek  has spent more than $1.2 billion on energy and
resources assets in the six months to mid-May as it diversifies
its portfolio. The Singapore-based company this year invested
$150 million in Platmin Ltd., the South Africa-based platinum
miner controlled by Gilbertson’s Pallinghurst Resources Ltd.  
 “They are fully briefed on this project and are
interested in it,” Gilbertson said. “They are aware of the
project and very interested in steelmaking raw materials.”  
 Jupiter  jumped  25 percent to 25 Australian cents, giving
it a market value of A$92 million at the 4:10 p.m. Sydney time
close on the Australian stock exchange.  
 Jupiter agreed in March to acquire a 49 percent stake in
Tshipi from a group of companies led by Pallinghurst. The deal
will be voted on at a shareholder meeting that may be held next
month, Gilbertson said today. In exchange, Jupiter agreed to
issue shares to the group, including Investec Plc, which will
then own 85 percent of the Australian company.  
 Posco, South Korea’s largest steelmaker, will hold 20
percent of Jupiter, Pallinghurst 17 percent and Investec will
control 16 percent. American Metals and Coal International Inc.
will also have a 15 percent stake.  
 Temasek’s investments in energy and resources accounted
for 5 percent of its portfolio at the end of March last year,
compared with 33 percent in financial services, according to
its latest annual report. Temasek managed a portfolio of S$172
billion ($124 billion) as of July 31, 2009, according to its
 website .  
 Temasek spokesman  Jeffrey Fang  in Singapore declined to
comment.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        