-- K1 Hedge Fund Manager Frerichs Committed Suicide, German Prosecutors Say
-- Charles Penty
-- 2010-07-05T13:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/k1-fund-manager-frerichs-killed-himself-prosecutors-spanish-police-say.html

          
          
             Dieter Frerichs, a suspect in an
international investigation into hedge-fund firm K1 Group, shot
and killed himself to avoid arrest, Spanish police and German
prosecutors said.  
 Frerichs was a managing director of two British Virgin
Island-based K1 investment funds, which were part of a scheme to
defraud banks and thousands of private investors of more than
300 million euros ($376 million), said prosecutors in Wuerzburg,
Germany. The prosecutors had sought extradition of Frerichs, 72,
who was staying in Palma on the Spanish island of Mallorca. They
said he committed suicide today in an e-mailed statement.  
 Police officers arrived at Frerichs’ house in Palma at
11.30 a.m. on July 3, where they found him sunbathing, a local
police spokeswoman said in a telephone interview today. He took
out a firearm from his bag and jumped into the sea, she said,
declining to be identified in line with official policy.  
 After the damp weapon failed to fire several times,
Frerichs shot himself in the head with his second successful
discharge, the spokeswoman said. Frerichs was taken to a
hospital where he later died, she said.  
 K1 Group  is at the center of an international criminal
probe after saddling banks including  Barclays Plc ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  and  BNP Paribas SA  with losses. European and U.S.
authorities are investigating whether K1 founder  Helmut Kiener ,
who helped manage funds of hedge funds, deceived the banks when
he borrowed money. Kiener, who was arrested in October,
previously denied the charges. His lawyer,  Lutz Libbertz , didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jann Bettinga  in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net ;
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        