-- Kan's Gambit Asks Japan to Consider Higher Taxes as Upper-House Vote Nears
-- John Brinsley
-- 2010-07-05T15:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/kan-s-gambit-asks-japan-to-consider-higher-taxes-as-upper-house-vote-nears.html

          
          
             Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
heads a party that has stumbled in the polls, jettisoned the
previous leader and may lose its upper-house majority on July
11. His strategy to lure voters: suggest they pay higher taxes.  
 Half of the 242 seats in the Diet’s  upper chamber  are up
for grabs. The contest will serve as a referendum on the
 Democratic Party of Japan ’s first 10 months in office, a start
marred by money scandals and a dispute with the U.S. that led to
last month’s departure of Kan’s predecessor,  Yukio Hatoyama .  
 Kan since June 17 has called for a debate on whether to as
much as double the 5 percent sales tax, stressing that Japan
must confront a debt amounting to $80,000 per person to avoid
the kind of fiscal crisis that has made Europe a riskier bet for
investors. His suggestion has split the electorate, with about
half in favor and half opposed.  
 Opening the door to a tax increase “is politically
astute,” said  Naomi Fink , Japan strategist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in Tokyo. “It’s a symbol of Japan’s
commitment to fiscal responsibility. He’s setting decisive
goals, which is a sign of leadership.”  
 While saying any rise in the tax is “at least two to three
years off,” Kan casts the debate in terms of the need to pay
for Japan’s rising  social welfare  costs and contain its 883
trillion yen ($10 trillion)  public debt.   
 At almost 200 percent of gross domestic product, it is the
largest among developed nations. Kan said on taking office that
he expected public debt to rise even with new bond issues
limited to 44 trillion yen next fiscal year.  
 Aging Population  
 Almost 23 percent of the country’s 126 million people will
be older than 65 this year, compared with 13 percent in the
U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A 1 percentage
point increase in the sales tax would generate annual revenue of
about 2.5 trillion yen, according to Ministry of Finance
figures.  
 Kan last month released plans to boost the economy by
lowering the corporate tax rate from as high as 40 percent while
balancing the budget in 10 years, which  won praise  from world
leaders at the June 26-27 Group of 20 summit in Toronto. At a
press conference with President  Barack Obama , Kan, 63, said he
was “strongly encouraged” by Obama’s support.  
 Tokyo corporations pay almost 41 percent in taxes,
including local levies, higher than China’s 25 percent and
France’s 33.3 percent, according to the Finance Ministry.  
 “We expect each party to clarify their positions and
tackle issues to achieve fiscal health,”  Hiromasa Yonekura ,
head of the Tokyo-based Japan Business Federation, the country’s
biggest lobby, wrote on the group’s website on June 24.  
 Improved Prospects  
 The ruling party’s prospects have improved since Kan took
over on June 8. Hatoyama’s approval rating fell below 20 percent
before he resigned over his handling of a pledge to relocate a
U.S. military base from Okinawa. He instead gave in to U.S.
pressure to move the base elsewhere on the island, angering
local residents.  
 Kan’s latest approval rating is 47 percent, according to a
Mainichi newspaper poll taken July 2-4, down 5 percentage points
from the previous week.  
 Support for the DPJ was at 30 percent, compared with 15
percent for the main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party.  The
LDP lost power after 50 years of almost uninterrupted government
rule in last August’s election for the Diet’s more powerful
 lower house .  
 Forty-five percent of voters favored raising the
consumption tax, compared with 49 percent who opposed it,
according to the survey of 40,373 people. It gave no margin of
error.  
 ‘Anyone’s Guess’  
 “It’s anyone’s guess if the slight dip in the polls is
because of the tax-hike discussion or just a wearing-off of the
initial euphoria,” said  Koichi Nakano , a political science
professor at Sophia University in Tokyo. “People are certainly
more reassured since Kan took office.”  
 One stumbling block is that the  People’s New Party , the
DPJ’s coalition partner, opposes any increase in the consumption
tax. PNP head  Shizuka Kamei  said June 11 that raising the tax
shows a “lack of understanding” about people’s suffering.  
 In order for Kan to keep a majority in the upper house and
ensure the smooth passage of legislation, the DPJ must retain
all 54 of its seats being contested and the PNP win two. Kan
told reporters at the G-20 that he “will discuss various
options with other parties” should he fall short.  
 Hiroshi Miyazaki , chief economist at Shinkin Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo, says Kan is broaching the tax issue too
early. Reports last week showed the  unemployment rate  reached a
five-month high of 5.2 percent in May, while wages and household
spending fell, more evidence that the end to  deflation  is
nowhere in sight.  
 Gains in Growth  
 On the other hand, the Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan
report of business sentiment  rose  to a two-year high, according
to a July 1 report. The world’s second-biggest economy grew at a
5 percent annual pace in the first quarter, the biggest gain
since the second quarter of 2009.  
 “Japan’s steady recovery is a tailwind for the
government,” Miyazaki said. “It will make it easier to work on
fiscal consolidation. Still, it’s too early to raise taxes and
place a burden on households who haven’t felt the benefits of
the recovery. That will have a negative impact on the economy.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Brinsley  at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister and president of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ), waves as he arrives for a campaign rally. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
