-- Korean Won Gains After Goldman Raises Economic Growth Forecast; Bonds Drop
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-07-05T01:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/korean-won-gains-after-goldman-raises-economic-growth-forecast-bonds-drop.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won strengthened for
the first time in five days after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
raised its 2010 economic growth forecast and China pledged to
sustain “relatively fast” expansion, supporting exports.  
 The won led gains among regional currencies, having last
week recorded the biggest loss as purchasing managers’ surveys
showed manufacturing growth was slowing in the U.S., Europe and
China. The Bank of Korea will keep its benchmark interest rate
at a record-low 2 percent at a review this week, according to
seven of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Three predicted a
quarter of a percentage point increase.  
 “Offshore players are selling dollars more than
expected,” said Ha Jun Woo, a currency trader for Daegu Bank
Ltd. in Seoul. “We’re also seeing preemptive bets ahead of the
central bank’s monetary policy meeting. If interest rates rise,
that will push investors to sell dollars and buy the won.”  
 The won strengthened 0.5 percent to 1,222.35 per dollar as
of 10:44 a.m. in Seoul, after sliding 1.1 percent last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency will trade
between 1,220 and 1,238 per dollar today, Ha forecast.  
 Gross domestic product will rise 5.3 percent this year,
more than a previous forecast of 4.8 percent, and the central
bank will likely raise interest rates this quarter,  Goohoon Kwon ,
a Seoul-based economist at Goldman, wrote in a report published
yesterday. He raised his estimate of first-half growth to 7.3
percent from 6.2 percent to reflect better-than-expected exports
and kept his forecast for the final six months at 3.4 percent.  
 China Demand  
 China will maintain policy continuity and flexibility to
ensure “steady and relatively fast” growth, Premier Wen Jiabao
said during a weekend visit to businesses in southern Hunan
province. The nation is the biggest buyer of Korean exports.  
 South Korea’s three-year bonds fell for the first time in
five days after Citigroup Inc. left the country out of its World
Government Bond Index following a review. Citigroup in July 2007
estimated that global investors with $1 trillion tracked their
fund performance against its global benchmark.  
 The yield on the 3.75 percent note maturing in June 2013
climbed three basis points to 3.84 percent, according to Korea
Stock Exchange. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        