-- Korea Electric, Posco Buy Stakes in Australian Mines From Anglo American
-- Sungwoo Park
-- 2010-07-05T08:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/korea-electric-posco-buy-stakes-in-australian-mines-from-anglo-american.html

          
          
             Korea Electric Power Corp. , the
country’s biggest electricity producer, and steelmaker  Posco 
agreed to buy stakes in coal mines in Australia from  Anglo
American Plc  for a combined A$453 million ($382 million).  
 The state-run utility will acquire Bylong mine for A$403
million, the Seoul-based company said in an e-mailed statement
today. Posco’s Australian unit will purchase 70 percent of the
Sutton Forest mine for A$50 million, the Pohang-based steelmaker
said in a separate statement.  
 South Korea, which imports almost all its resources
requirements, is encouraging domestic companies to expand
overseas energy investment to get supplies to feed its economy,
Asia’s fourth-biggest. Coal is used to produce almost half of
South Korea’s power.  
 Bylong, in New South Wales, may produce 7.5 million metric
tons of coal a year starting in 2016, the utility said. The
purchase will increase the ratio of Korea Electric’s output from
its overseas mines to 24 percent from 12 percent currently, the
company said.  
 Posco, Asia’s third-biggest steelmaker, may get 1.3 million
tons a year of coal used in steelmaking starting in 2016 after
buying the stake in the Sutton Forest mine, also in New South
Wales. The deal will boost the company’s self-sufficiency ratio
of the resource to 36 percent from 30 percent, Posco said.  
 The steelmaker gained 3.6 percent to close at 483,500 won
in Seoul trading today, while Korea Electric declined 1.1
percent to 31,000 won. The benchmark Kospi index was up 0.2
percent. The announcements came after the market close.  
 Korea Electric, Posco and Australia’s Cockatoo Coal Ltd.
comprised a group that bid for five coal mines owned by Anglo
American, today’s statements said.  
 Anglo American offered to sell its holdings in undeveloped
coal resources in Australia to focus on assets that are already
in production, according to the London-based company on March 1.  
 Cockatoo has agreed to buy stakes in the other three
deposits, including Ownaview, owned by Anglo American, for a
total of A$105 million, Korea Electric said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        