-- New Zealand Business Confidence Declined in Third Quarter as Demand Slowed
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-10-04T23:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/n-z-second-quarter-business-confidence-declines-as-domestic-demand-slows.html
New Zealand’s business confidence
fell in the third quarter to the lowest level since mid-2009,
weakening the case for further interest-rate increases.  A net 6 percent of companies  surveyed  expect the economy
will improve over the next six months, down from 18 percent in
the second quarter, the New Zealand  Institute of Economic
Research  said today in Wellington. The net figure, which isn’t
adjusted for seasonal patterns, is calculated by subtracting the
proportion of pessimists from optimists.  Declining confidence adds to signs that central bank
Governor  Alan Bollard  will keep interest rates unchanged this
year as economic growth slows, even before the impact of the
nation’s worst earthquake in 80 years. The economy expanded less
than analysts expected in the three months through June and the
economist who oversees the survey suggested it may signal a
contraction last quarter.  “While the recovery continues, it is doing so at a sharply
slower pace than firms expected three months ago,” said  Helen Kevans , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney. “There
appears little urgency for Governor Bollard to hike the cash
rate anytime soon.”  New Zealand’s dollar fell after the report, declining to
73.87 U.S. cents at 11:15 a.m. in Wellington from 74.18 cents
immediately before the release.  Thirteen of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last
week forecast Bollard will keep interest rates at 3 percent
until at least January. One expects a December increase. Kevans
last week revised her prediction to March from December.  Canterbury Earthquake  The survey results don’t show any discernible impact from
the magnitude 7 earthquake that struck Canterbury on Sept. 4,
the institute said. There was a 20 percent decline in responses
from the region.  Businesses reported that the first-half recovery in sales
and profits reversed in the third quarter, adding to signs the
economy may have contracted,  Shamubeel Eaqub , principal
economist at the institute, told reporters today.  “The risk of a double-dip recession has risen quite a
bit,” he said. “The economy is in a very weak place.”  A net 16 percent of companies said trading deteriorated in
the three months ended Sept. 30, the institute said, citing
unadjusted figures. A net 30 percent said profits fell.  Expectations for the fourth quarter are weak, according to
today’s survey. Fewer firms expect trading will increase in the
next three months and a net 14 percent expect profits will fall.  “Demand remains a big problem in the economy,” said Eaqub.
“Renewed economic weakness, distant inflationary pressures and
a fragile global setting will see the Reserve Bank hold the cash
rate steady until early 2011.”  Investment, Hiring  Investment intentions declined while employment intentions
improved. A net 5 percent expect to hire workers in the next
three months, up from 1 percent in the second-quarter survey.  Economists monitor the institute’s report to gauge whether
inflation pressures will emerge. Bollard said last month he
expected inflation to stay within the 1 percent to 3 percent
range that he is required to target in the medium term because
of weak domestic demand.  A temporary jump in inflation is expected in the fourth
quarter after the government raised the rate of sales tax to 15
percent from 12.5 percent on Oct. 1.  A net 30 percent of firms plan to raise prices over the
next three months, today’s report showed. Fifteen percent were
able to raise prices in the third quarter, the institute said.  “We haven’t seen much inflation,” said Eaqub. “Actual
pricing is going sideways. There is very little ability to pass
on price increases.”  A net 4 percent of companies said it is harder to find
skilled workers, up from 2 percent in the previous survey.  Capacity utilization, a measure of factory usage, fell to
90.39 percent in the third quarter from 90.76 percent in the
previous three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  