-- New Zealand's Economic Growth May Be Slower Than Forecast, Treasury Says
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-07-05T03:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/new-zealand-economic-growth-may-be-less-than-expected-treasury-says.html

          
          
             New Zealand’s economic recovery will
be gradual over the coming 12 months and there are risks near-
term growth will be slower than forecast in May’s budget, the
Treasury Department said.  
 Indicators of second-quarter growth including retail sales
suggest continued weakness in private consumption, while exports
are likely to ease due to reduced dairy shipments, the
Wellington-based department said in a monthly report posted on
its website. The  report  doesn’t contain new forecasts.  
 Finance Minister  Bill English  and central bank Governor
 Alan Bollard  have predicted a slow economic recovery after the
nation sank into its worst recession in three decades in 2008
and early 2009. Gross domestic product is likely to expand 3
percent this year, the Treasury forecast on May 20.  
 First-quarter growth was “relatively weak in private
consumption and investment, but stronger in exports,” the
department said today. “Our view as to the most likely path the
economy takes remains consistent with budget forecasts; however,
downside risks are significantly higher and near-term growth is
likely to be a little weaker than forecast.”  
 Retail sales  fell in April and spending on debit and credit
cards slumped 2.2 percent the same month before gaining 0.4
percent in May.  
 House sales declined in May after seasonal adjustment,
although second-quarter sales are likely to be higher than the
first quarter, the Treasury said. The time taken to sell a
property is also increasing, it said.  
 “More cautious behavior from households is pointing to
slightly weaker near-term growth,” it said. Still, “in the
absence of significant external shocks, further economic
recovery can be expected.”  
 Bollard on June 10 boosted the  official cash rate  a
quarter-point to 2.75 percent, the first increase in three years,
and said further rises in borrowing costs are likely.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        