-- Nigeria May Keep Key Key Rate at 6% as It Focuses on Buying Toxic Debt
-- Paul Okolo
-- 2010-07-05T08:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/nigeria-to-keep-key-lending-rate-at-6-as-it-focuses-on-buying-toxic-debt.html

          
          
             Nigeria’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark interest rate unchanged today as it prepares
to buy toxic debt from commercial banks to revive lending, a
survey showed.  
 The monetary policy rate will remain at 6 percent,
according to all four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The main
lending rate to commercial banks will probably be maintained at
8 percent and the borrowing rate at 1 percent. The announcement
will be made after 3:30 p.m. today, one day earlier than
planned, the central bank said in a text message yesterday.  
 The priority for the central bank is “getting the banking
sector back to health,” said Alan Cameron, an analyst at
London-based Business Monitor International. “Although we’re
past the worst of the crisis, there are still some obvious signs
of strains.”  
 As the central bank focuses on restructuring the banking
industry, there is “no compelling reason to change rates,”
 Lamido Sanusi , governor of the  Central Bank of Nigeria , said on
July 1. The bank will clear $10 billion of toxic debt from the
system this year, at a cost of about $5 billion, he said.  
 The West African country’s Senate approved a law to set up
a state-owned company that will buy the debts from banks on June
23. The legislation is expected to get President Goodluck
Jonathan’s approval soon, according to a central bank statement.  
 Bail Out  
 The central bank fired the top managers of eight of the
country’s 24 lenders last year and gave the industry an
injection of 620 billion naira ($4.1 billion) to stem the
decline.  
 “We have stopped the hemorrhaging,” Sanusi said. “The
hole is not getting any deeper.”  
 Bank lending has been slow to recover after last year’s
bailout. Credit to private industry fell in January, February
and March, before gaining 0.3 percent in April, according to the
central bank website.  
 Still, Nigeria’s economy, the second-largest in sub-Saharan
Africa after South Africa, grew 7.2 percent in the first quarter
and 7.4 percent in the previous three months, as oil production
increased following the a decline in attacks in the Niger Delta.
The economy is expected to expand 6.1 percent this year, while
inflation will average 11.2 percent,  Remi Babalola , the minister
of state for finance, said in March.  
 The inflation rate declined to 11 percent in May from 12.5
percent a month earlier.  
 Nigeria is the continent’s top oil producer and the fifth-
largest supplier of U.S. crude imports.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        