-- Nigeria Keeps Benchmark Rate at 6 Percent as It Prepares to Buy Toxic Debt
-- Paul Okolo
-- 2010-07-05T16:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/nigeria-central-bank-keeps-rate-at-6-as-it-prepares-to-buy-toxic-debt.html

          
          
             Nigeria’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged as it prepares to buy toxic
debt from commercial banks to revive lending.  
 The monetary policy rate was left at 6 percent,  Lamido Sanusi , governor of the  Central Bank of Nigeria , said today at a
briefing in Abuja, the capital. The main lending rate to
commercial banks will be maintained at 8 percent and the
borrowing rate at 1 percent.  
 The West African country’s Senate on June 23 approved a law
to set up a state-owned company that will buy the debts from
banks. The bank will clear $10 billion of toxic assets from the
system this year, at a cost of about $5 billion, the governor
said on July 1. The legislation is expected to get President
 Goodluck Jonathan ’s approval soon, according to a central bank
statement.  
 The debt purchases will “reflate the economy,” Sanusi
said. “Each bank has shown improved profitability compared with
last year.”  
 The central bank fired the top managers of eight of the
country’s 24 lenders last year and gave the industry an
injection of 620 billion naira ($4.1 billion) to stem the
decline.  
 Bank lending has been slow to recover. Credit to private
industry fell in January, February and March, before gaining 0.3
percent in April, according to the central bank website.  
 Exchange Rate  
 The central bank is also likely to maintain its current
exchange rate policy, which has kept the naira at about 150 to
the dollar since February 2009, and helped maintain inflation
between 10.4 percent and 13 percent since June, Sanusi said last
week.  
 “It would be wise not to disrupt the balance,” he said.  
 The inflation rate declined to 11 percent in May from 12.5
percent a month earlier.  
 The inflation and lending outlooks “have not changed
significantly, so there is no real need to change anything at
present,”  David Cowan , Citigroup’s Africa economist, said in an
e-mail.  
 Nigeria’s economy, the second-largest in sub-Saharan Africa
after South Africa, grew 7.2 percent in the first quarter and
7.4 percent in the previous three months, as oil production
increased following a decline in attacks in the Niger Delta.
Nigeria is the continent’s top oil producer and the fifth-
largest supplier of U.S. crude imports.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        