-- Norilsk Shareholder Spat Unlikely to Lead to Repeat of 2008 Feud, VTB Says
-- Ilya Khrennikov
-- 2010-07-05T13:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/norilsk-shareholder-spat-unlikely-to-lead-to-repeat-of-2008-feud-vtb-says.html

          
          
             A disagreement between shareholders
of  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel  is unlikely to escalate into the kind
of feuding two years ago that contributed to a 70 percent slump
in the value of the company’s shares,  VTB Capital  said.  
 “The Norilsk shareholders’ conflict is far less intense,”
Moscow-based VTB analyst  Alexander Pukhaev  said by phone. “It’s
now tactical. It still affects investors as Norilsk management
will be distracted by solving holders’ disputes.”  
 United Co. Rusal , which owns 25 percent of Norilsk, plans
to call a shareholders’ meeting to re-elect the nickel maker’s
board after  Alexander Voloshin , backed by Rusal, lost his seat
in a June 28 vote, it said today by e-mail. The outcome of the
vote was “the result of manipulation,” Rusal said last week.  
 Rusal, controlled by billionaire  Oleg Deripaska , won three
seats, while Interros Holding Co., owned by  Vladimir Potanin ,
got four. A spat between the two in 2008 ended only when the men
agreed in November of that year to avoid seeking board seats for
themselves and to put merger plans on hold for three years.  
 Norilsk  fell 10 percent in the three days after the board
election before rebounding 5.7 percent to 4,610 rubles by 5:26
p.m. in Moscow trading. The shares more than doubled in value
last year after slumping 70 percent in 2008.  
 Norilsk independent director  Gerard Holden  said the main
shareholders will “find common ground” because merger plans
have been put off. “I wouldn’t like for it to be treated as a
war,” Interros Managing Director  Andrei Bugrov  said last week.  
 A shareholders’ meeting should be held within 70 days of a
request to the board according to Russian law. Voloshin refused
to sign off on the board meeting that overthrew him, Vedomosti
said today, citing a letter from the former chairman to Norilsk.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net 
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        