-- Norway Steps Up Liquidity Push to Cap Interbank Rates
-- Josiane Kremer
-- 2010-07-06T09:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/norway-central-bank-says-clear-liquidity-signal-will-cap-interbank-rates.html

          
          
               Norway ’s central bank is intensifying
efforts to bring down interbank rates after last month’s
decision to shelve monetary tightening failed to cap the
borrowing rates lenders charge each other.  
 The bank yesterday  allocated 20 billion kroner  ($3.1
billion) in loans running from July 5 to July 8 and pre-
announced a loan for July 15 to Aug. 12. The auction attracted
bids for 43.8 billion kroner. The bank offers the loans when it
decides lenders need extra funds and only resorts to pre-
announcements when liquidity is tight.  
 Oslo-based Norges Bank wants to “be very clear to the
market that we will supply the liquidity necessary to keep the
short-term money market policy rate close to our key policy
rate,” said Anders Svor, assistant director at Norges Bank’s
 Monetary Policy Department , by phone yesterday.  
 Governor Svein Gjedrem and his policy-making board kept the
overnight deposit rate unchanged at 2 percent on June 23,
halting a tightening cycle that started in October. The decision
followed a 35 basis-point jump in the three-month Norwegian
Interbank Offered Rate since the end of March, reflecting
tighter credit flows between lenders. Yesterday’s auction came
after a jump in the three-month Nibor to 2.84 percent on July 2,
the highest level since April 24, 2009.  
 “It seems like the redistribution of liquidity isn’t
functioning properly,” Svor said.  
 Debt Crisis  
 The difference between Nibor and the benchmark rate is at
its widest since October. The three-month interbank deposit rate
soared to 2.75 percent yesterday, its highest level since April
2009. The interbank deposit rate fell as much as 15 basis points
today, its biggest single-day drop since Oct. 27.  
 Norway’s banks, including the country’s biggest lender  DnB
NOR ASA , are responding to concern across Europe that the
region’s debt crisis may spread to lenders’ balance sheets as
some sovereign bonds lose value.  
 Three-month Euribor jumped today to the highest since Sept.
7 as banks in the region grow more reluctant to extend credit to
each other. European lenders had $2.29 trillion at risk in  Greece ,  Italy ,  Portugal  and  Spain  at the end of 2009, including
loans to governments, according to the  Bank for International
Settlements .  
 Rising interbank rates are “of course an issue for the
central bank,” said Arne Lohmann Rasmussen, head of fixed-
income research at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “It means
that monetary policy is actually tighter than was intended by
the central bank.”  
 Policy Rate Outlook  
 The central bank last month signaled a 50 percent chance of
an increase in rates in December or February, said Bjoern-Roger Wilhelmsen, a former Norges Bank economist who now works as a
senior economist at First Securities in Oslo, in a June 28 note.  
 “The high fixings of course make it quite unlikely that
they will hike for the foreseeable future,” Lohmann Rasmussen
said. “They will not hike before they see these rates
normalizing.”  
 Even after the central bank’s statement of intent to
continue feeding liquidity to lenders, interbank rates will
continue “slowly rising,” according to SEB AB Chief Currency
Strategist  Carl Hammer . “The risk is clearly that Nibor
continues north,” he said today in an e-mailed reply to
questions.  
 ‘Unusual’  
 “The impression we have for all central banks is that they
will add as much liquidity as needed not to jeopardize the
economic recovery from that angle,” Hammer said.  
 Norges Bank’s decision to pre-announce a further auction
after yesterday’s loan allocation is “unusual,” Kjersti
Haugland, an economist at DnB NOR Markets, said in a note to
clients.  
 “By providing 20 billion now, we feel that we have
supplied sufficient liquidity to the system,” Svor said. “The
overall liquidity should be more than sufficient to keep the
short-term money market close to the benchmark rate.”  
 Norges Bank, which last year became the first in  Europe  to
increase borrowing costs, was forced  to scale back its
tightening plans  last month after Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
triggered concern that austerity measures may slow the region’s
recovery and sap demand for Norwegian exports.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Governor of Norway's central bank Svein Gjedrem. Photographer: Heidi Wideroe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
