-- Obama Meets Netanyahu as Settlement Freeze Nears End
-- Jonathan Ferziger
-- 2010-07-06T16:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/obama-meets-netanyahu-as-end-to-settlement-freeze-hangs-over-improved-ties.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  meets Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  today at a moment when U.S.-Israeli
ties are improving. Further warming may depend on whether Israel
extends a settlement-building freeze due to expire in September.  
 The U.S. sided with Israel in the face of international
criticism following its raid on a Gaza aid flotilla in May and
persuaded the United Nations to impose additional sanctions on
Iran over its nuclear program last month.  
 Those actions helped reverse a downturn in relations that
developed over Israel’s plan to build 1,600 homes in east
Jerusalem. Dan Shapiro, senior director at the White House for
the Middle East and North Africa, told reporters last week that
the freeze on building homes in West Bank settlements, announced
by Netanyahu on Nov. 25, has helped advance efforts toward the
goal of direct peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians.  
 “There has been a distinct improvement in the White House
relationship with Israel since the last meeting” between Obama
and Netanyahu on March 23, said  Jonathan Spyer , a political
scientist at Israel’s Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya. “Obama
will be looking for a payback,” perhaps in the form of an
extension to the settlement freeze, Spyer said.  
 The stakes are potentially high for both leaders. Obama has
expended political capital on reviving the peace negotiations,
beginning with indirect talks intended to lead toward direct
ones -- something that aides to Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  say won’t happen unless Israel halts all
settlement building. Netanyahu may lose his parliamentary
majority if he extends the freeze beyond the Sept. 26
expiration.  
 Moratorium Issue  
 The Obama administration is “very keen to see the
moratorium extended,” said Roger Danin, a senior fellow for
Middle East and Africa studies at the  Council on Foreign
Relations  in Washington. “That’s a very difficult issue they
will probably not be able to resolve during this visit.”  
 Shapiro said the focus of the discussion between the
leaders would be “on making that transition into direct talks”
and on what has been covered through the indirect talks.  
 Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  said in Helsinki
today that “there is no chance the freeze will be extended.”
His comments were sent in a text message from his ministry.
Lieberman heads Yisrael Beitenu. Loss of the party would rob
Netanyahu’s 74-seat ruling coalition of its majority in the 120-
member parliament.  
 Housing Plan  
 U.S. officials say that relations between the two countries
have improved considerably since March, when Israel’s
announcement of the east Jerusalem housing plan in the midst of
a visit by Vice President  Joe Biden  drew criticism from
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  
 “There’s absolutely no rift between the United States and
Israel,” said  Ben Rhodes , a U.S. deputy national security
adviser. “This is a relationship that is very strong and very
important to the United States.”  
 Obama shielded Israel from international censure at the UN,
after Israeli forces killed nine pro-Palestinian Turkish
activists aboard a ship trying to breach a naval blockade of the
Gaza Strip.  
 In May, the president requested $205 million from Congress
to fund a medium-range missile-defense system for Israel. The
system, called Iron Dome, is intended to protect Israel from
rockets and mortar shells from Gaza and Lebanon.  
 Nuclear Program  
 In their meeting, the two men will also discuss Iran’s
nuclear program, which Israeli officials call an existential
threat. Israel, along with the U.S. and its allies, suspect the
nuclear program is aimed at building a bomb. Iran says its work
is for civilian purposes. Israeli leaders have refused to rule
out a military strike on Iran’s nuclear installations should
sanctions fail.  
 U.S. relations could sour again if Netanyahu sticks to his
pledge to renew settlement building. The Israeli leader is under
pressure to lift the West Bank construction ban from allies in
his coalition and members of his Likud party.  
 “There is no doubt that construction in Judea and Samaria
will resume when the freeze runs out,” Culture and Sport
Minister  Limor Livnat , a Likud member, said on Army Radio, using
the Biblical terms for the West Bank.  
 Netanyahu’s coalition collapsed during his first term as
prime minister, precipitating elections in 1999 that he lost,
because of compromises he made in negotiations with the
Palestinians.  
 Talks Deadline  
 In Washington, Netanyahu is “going to be asked for more
than he’s going to get,” said  Mark Heller , a senior research
fellow at the Institute for National Security Studies in Tel
Aviv. “He’s certainly going to be asked to extend the West Bank
construction freeze. That would cause a lot of problems in his
coalition.”  
 The four-month period allotted for indirect talks also
expires in September. Netanyahu said July 4 that one of the
goals in his meeting with Obama is to bring about direct talks
with Abbas. The Palestinian leader won’t engage Israel directly
until all settlement building ceases,  Ghassan Khatib , a
spokesman for the Palestinian Authority, said June 22.  
 The 10-month freeze imposed by Netanyahu doesn’t include
some 3,000 housing units approved before the moratorium, the
construction of public buildings or construction in east
Jerusalem, which Israel captured from Jordan during the 1967
Middle East war and the Palestinians want as the capital of a
future state.  
 “I would be very dubious that the Israeli government would
be willing or able to extend the temporary freeze, as this would
only encourage the Palestinians to put up additional
conditions,” said  Zalman Shoval , a former Israeli ambassador to
the U.S. and head of an advisory forum on Israel-U.S. relations
for Netanyahu.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Obama meets Netanyahu as end to settlement freeze nears  
                       
                         
                           Jim Hollander-Pool/Getty Images 
                         
                         Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Photographer: Jim Hollander-Pool/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
