-- Crude Oil Drops for Sixth Day on Concern Over Slowing Chinese Recovery
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-07-05T13:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/oil-rises-as-five-days-of-decline-makes-commodities-attractive-to-purchase.html

          
          
             Crude oil traded near its lowest
level in three weeks on concern that a slacker pace of economic
recovery in China may constrain global fuel demand.  
 Car sales growth in the country slowed in June, the China
Automotive Technology & Research Center said today, and a
services-industry index slid to a 15-month low, according to
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit and Markit Economics.  
 “The market’s displayed some uneasiness about recent
macroeconomic Chinese data,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil-
market research at Societe Generale SA in London. “But oil
demand there has been very strong, and barring a sharp slowdown
similar to 2008, we forecast that will continue.”  
 Crude oil for August delivery traded for $71.93 per barrel,
21 cents lower in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange as of 2:47 p.m. London time. It had advanced 0.8
percent to $72.70. Brent crude oil for August settlement was
down 1 cent at $71.64 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London. There will be no floor trading on the Nymex
today because of the U.S. Independence Day holiday.  
 Crude dropped 8.5 percent in the week through July 2, the
biggest decline in two months, after reports of slowing economic
expansion in the U.S. and China, the world’s largest energy
consumers. Futures have declined 8.6 percent this year.  
 China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said over the weekend the
government will ensure “steady and relatively fast” growth.
Crude’s 14-day relative strength index dropped below 40 last
week for the first time since May 26, approaching a level that
may signal an imminent rebound.  
 U.S. Employment  
 On July 2 prices in New York fell to $71.62 a barrel, their
lowest level since June 8, after the Labor Department said
payrolls decreased by 125,000 last month as the government cut
temporary census workers. A 1.4 percent reduction in May
bookings with manufacturers was the biggest since March 2009,
the Commerce Department said. Economists in a Bloomberg News
survey projected a 0.5 percent drop.  
 Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their  net-long position  in New York crude-oil futures in the
week ended June 29, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  
 Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 37,120 contracts on the New York
Mercantile Exchange, the Washington-based commission said in its
Commitments of Traders report. Net-long positions fell by 2,515
contracts, or 6 percent, from a week earlier.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        