-- Hong Kong Lawmakers to Invite Henderson Land to Meeting on Project's Sales
-- Kelvin Wong
-- 2010-07-05T10:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/hong-kong-lawmakers-to-discuss-henderson-land-s-sales-of-luxury-apartments.html

          
          
             Hong Kong lawmakers will invite
representatives from  Henderson Land Development Co.  to attend a
meeting to answer questions related to the failed sales of
luxury apartments at one of its project.  
 Members of the Legislative Council’s housing panel voted 7-
to-1 today to invite the developer, controlled by billionaire
 Lee Shau-kee , to the July 12 meeting. Henderson’s attendance
will be voluntary, panel Chairman Wong Kwok-hing said.  
 The Hong Kong government has introduced measures to cool
home prices and increased scrutiny of developers’ sales methods
since Henderson’s October announcement that it sold an apartment
at its 39 Conduit Road project for a record of HK$88,000
($11,300) a square foot. That was among 20 purchases that were
canceled by prospective buyers, the builder said last month. The
government has sought details on the sale agreements.  
 Erica Leung, a spokeswoman for Henderson, said the company
is seeking legal advice and hasn’t decided on whether to attend
the meeting.  
 Henderson submitted its responses to the government’s
queries on the sales to the Council today, Lee Wing-tat, a
councilor of the Democratic Party, said in comments broadcast on
local television stations.  
 Hong Kong police and other law enforcement agencies are
investigating the sales at the project, Transport and Housing
Secretary  Eva Cheng  told lawmakers during today’s session. Cheng
declined to specify the other agencies and give a time schedule
for the investigation.  
 Henderson on July 2 took out full-page advertisements in
most local newspapers, claiming all transactions were
“genuine” and “buyers weren’t connected to the company.”  
 Henderson used standard contractual terms in the
transactions and booked the sales according to Hong Kong
accounting standards, the statement said.  
 Seventh Time  
 Henderson was questioned last month for a seventh time by
the city’s government, which asked the company to provide copies
of title deeds and additional details on how it calculated the
interest penalty for late payments.  
 Shares of Henderson  fell 0.1 percent to at HK$46.05 at the
4 p.m. close in Hong Kong.  
 Hong Kong housing prices have risen 5.7 percent this year,
adding to 2009’s 29 percent advance. Financial Secretary  John Tsang  in February announced a higher stamp duty on luxury
properties and has pledged to raise the supply of land as it
seeks to reduce the risk of a property bubble.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        