-- Monsoon Covers Cotton, Soybean States, Pares Season's Rain Deficit to 14%
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-07-05T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/monsoon-covers-cotton-soybean-states-pares-season-s-rain-deficit-to-14-.html

          
          
             Monsoon, which accounts for more than
70 percent of India’s annual rains, covered most of the country
today, improving prospects for planting of  cotton , soybeans and
rice after a two-week delay, the  state forecaster  said.  
 The weather system covered all of Gujarat, the top cotton
and peanut grower, Madhya Pradesh, the largest soybean producer,
and Punjab and Haryana, the main wheat- and rice-growing states.
The rain deficit narrowed to 14 percent for the season started
June 1, from 16 percent last month, the weather office said.  
 Adequate rains may help Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  to
lift farm output after a drought last year drove food costs to
near an 11-year high in January. India’s central bank signaled
it is set to raise interest rates again to rein in  inflation 
after an unscheduled increase last week.  
 “Sowing has picked up everywhere and revival in rains is
good news for agriculture,”  Alimuhammad Lakdawala , an analyst
at AnandRathi Commodities Ltd., said in a telephone interview.  
 Planting of monsoon-sown crops may be the highest in two
years, possibly leading to “a problem of storage” when crops
are harvested starting October, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  told
reporters today. The advance of the rain-carrying winds to Uttar
Pradesh, the top sugar cane- and rice-growing state, will be
“feeble,” the weather office said earlier today.  
 The area planted to rice is up 2.4 percent to 4.65 million
hectares (11.5 million acres) as of July 2, cotton acreage has
risen 50 percent to 4.37 million hectares and oilseeds have been
planted to 2.89 million hectares, more than twice last year’s
level, the farm ministry said last week.  
 Prices Decline  
 Soybeans on the National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange
Ltd. in Mumbai declined for a sixth consecutive day, losing as
much as 0.9 percent to 1,886 rupees per 100 kilograms. Sugar
dropped 1 percent to 2,700 rupees per 100 kilograms on July 2.  
 Prices of staples may not decline further as transporters
pass on higher fuel costs to consumers, said Lakdawala. Singh’s
government last month freed gasoline prices, allowing the cost
to rise by 3.5 rupees a liter. Diesel is costlier by 2 rupees in
a country where 65 percent of the goods are transported by road.  
 “Fuel prices have been let loose,” Lakdawala said.  
 Sugar output will be 24 million to 25 million tons in the
year starting Oct. 1, more than the 23 million forecast by the
government, because of an increase in the crop area, according
to the National Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd.  
 The government may impose a tax on sugar imports in August
or September, Pawar said. The duty will come into effect in the
new crop season starting Oct. 1, he said.  
 Rainfall in the June-September  season may be 102 percent of
the long-period average, helped by the La Nina weather condition,
the forecaster said last month.  
 “The distribution in rainfall over the next few weeks will
be critical in deciding how various crops turn out,” Lakdawala
said. “There are no worries at the moment.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        