-- Loonie Weakens for Second Day on Reduced Interest Rate-Rise Expectations
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-07-05T21:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/loonie-weakens-for-second-day-on-reduced-interest-rate-rise-expectations.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar depreciated versus
its U.S. counterpart and bonds rose as global equities slipped
amid waning expectations for higher interest rates, making
currencies tied to economic expansion less attractive.  
 The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is sometimes known, last
week reached its lowest level in a month after economic data put
the North American recovery in question. The loonie is the
third-worst performer over the last month among the greenback’s
16 most-traded counterparts.  
 “Unless you’re in Japan, the franc or the U.S. dollar,
you’re not doing all that well,”  Sacha Tihanyi , a currency
strategist in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital
unit, said by phone from Toronto. “The market is trading a
little more hesitantly, easing back on expectations for the Bank
of Canada. Less levity in commodities and a generally
unexciting, unenthused day in European equities probably
provided no reason for any big rally.”  
 The Canadian currency depreciated 0.1 percent to C$1.0634
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0624 on
July 2. It reached C$1.0677 earlier, the weakest since June 7.
One Canadian dollar buys 94.04 U.S. cents. Crude oil, Canada’s
biggest export, traded near a three-week low.  
 U.S. markets are closed today for a national holiday.  
 Equities, Commodities  
 The  MSCI World Index  of global equities fell 0.3 percent,
adding to last week’s 4 percent plunge.  
 In June, Governor  Mark Carney  became the first Group of
Seven central banker to raise interest rates, increasing the
Bank of Canada’s target level to 0.5 percent from a record low
of 0.25 percent. Policy makers meet again on July 20 and in
September, October and December.  
 Data released last week suggested Canada’s growth isn’t
immune to a global slowdown. The nation’s  economy  unexpectedly
stalled in April, with output remaining at a seasonally adjusted
annualized rate of C$1.23 trillion ($1.16 trillion) in April,
Statistics Canada said on June 30 in Ottawa. The median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.2 percent gain. An index
released on June 29 showed raw-material prices dropped 7.2
percent in May, exceeding the 1 percent median estimated drop.  
 Canada’s bonds followed European debt higher today as
investors sought the safest securities. The  yield  on Canada’s
benchmark 30-year bond fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 3.63 percent, its lowest close on a daily basis since
April 8, 2009.  
 Canada’s economy added 20,000 jobs in June and the
unemployment rate remained at 8.1 percent, Statistics Canada
will likely say on June 9, according to the median estimates of
economists in separate surveys by Bloomberg News.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        