-- Option Traders More Confident in Real Than Any Currency on Brazil's Growth
-- Tal Barak Harif
-- 2010-07-05T15:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/option-traders-more-confident-in-real-than-any-currency-on-brazil-s-growth.html

          
          
             Options traders are showing more
confidence in the Brazilian real than any other major currency
as Latin America’s biggest economy grows at the fastest pace in
15 years.  
 Three-month implied volatility on real options is 338 basis
points, or 3.38 percentage points, less than the currency’s
actual price swings, the biggest gap among 16 major currencies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. As recently as May,
implied volatility, which reflect investors’ expectations of
future currency fluctuations, was higher than the real’s moves.  
 The reversal shows traders are betting the currency will be
less vulnerable to declines sparked by concern the global
recovery is slowing. Brazil’s  economy  grew 9 percent in the
first quarter, the most since 1995, and the central bank
forecast last week a full-year expansion of 7.3 percent.  
 “Brazil is still a good place to put your money,” said
 Flavia Cattan-Naslausky , a currency strategist with RBS
Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut. “Despite the growing
external risks, the interest rates, the growth differentials are
still there. The real will still outperform.”  
 Three-month implied volatility on the real rose to 16.7
percent from 13.7 percent at the end of April, while actual
fluctuations surged to 20 percent from 12.2 percent. For the
euro versus the dollar, implied volatility was nine basis points
higher than the actual fluctuations.  
 Share Offerings  
 The real has gained 7.8 percent since sinking to an eight-
month low of 1.9153 per dollar on May 25.  
 Stock offerings are luring money to the country, helping
fuel the real’s gains. State-owned oil company  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA’s  planned $25 billion share sale, the largest in
the Western Hemisphere in at least a decade, will go ahead in
September, Energy Minister  Marcio Zimmermann  said July 1.  
 “It’ll be a rush, but it’s doable,” Zimmermann said in an
interview in Brasilia.  
 Brazilian companies excluding Petroleo Brasileiro plan to
raise $12 billion in 19 equity offerings this year, more than
double the amount in the first seven months of 2009, according
to Bloomberg data. International investors have bought 67
percent of the shares sold this year, according to BM&FBovespa
SA.  Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s largest bank by assets,
sold $5.4 billion of shares last week.  
 ‘No Panic’  
 Net inflows from trade and investment into Brazilian stocks
and bonds increased 12 percent to $3 billion this year from the
same period of 2009. The country’s growth rate will more than
double the pace in the U.S. and top the average 5.1 percent
expansion that the International Monetary Fund expects for
emerging markets this year.  
 “There’s no panic,” said  Kirill Ilinski , who oversees
about $100 million as the chief investment officer at Fusion
Asset Management LLP in London. His fund has gained 4.6 percent
this year, beating 83 percent of its peers. “The contagion is
not spreading to Brazil,” he said.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened 10
basis points last week to 247, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The gap reached an eight-month high of 251 on June 8 on concern
a deepening debt crisis in Europe will lead the world into the
second global recession in three years.  
 The cost of credit-default swaps to protect against a
default on Brazilian debt for five years rose nine basis points
last week to 140, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
That’s less than the 10 basis-point increase in the cost to
insure Mexican debt and 30 basis-point jump on swaps to protect
Argentine bonds.  
 Dollar Purchases  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January was unchanged today at 11.31 percent, signaling traders
expect the central bank to raise the benchmark rate to about 12
percent by year-end from a current 10.25 percent.  
 The real fell 0.2 percent to 1.7762, extending its decline
this year to 1.8 percent. It surged 33 percent last year, the
biggest advance among the world’s major currencies.  
 The central bank has purchased dollars every day since
March 2009 to stem the currency’s gain and shore up exports.
Policy makers have  bought  $14 billion in the foreign-exchange
market this year, compared with $2.5 in the first half of last
year, according to the central bank’s website.  
 ‘Choppy Trading’  
 “Their government is mindful of the currency strength,”
said  Clyde Wardle , an emerging-market currency strategist at
HSBC Holdings Plc in New York. “The upside for the real isn’t
what it was perceived to be in the last part of 2009. We’ll
continue to see choppy trading through the summer.”  
 The real will end the year at 1.8 per dollar, according to
the median forecast of 19 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
Traders cut their estimate from 1.72 on May 25.  
 The higher yields offered by Brazil’s fixed-income assets
keep luring foreign investors, helping bolster the real, said
 David Spegel , the New York-based head of emerging-market
strategy at ING Groep NV.  
 The yield on Brazil’s bonds due in 2012 is 11.37 percentage
points higher than that on similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries,
near the widest gap since January 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Investors feel more confident about the economic
process,” Spegel said. “They feel like they’re getting
sufficiently compensated because of the high yield in the
domestic notes. It’s hard for investors to find reasons for the
real to sell off.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Central bank of Brazil president Henrique Meirelles. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
