-- Tornado Artist Defies Deadly Twisters for Video Show: Interview
-- Farah Nayeri
-- 2010-07-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/tornado-artist-alys-defies-deadly-twisters-for-tate-video-show-interview.html

          
          
             A man walks into a tornado with a
video camera. As the killer winds whip around him and dirt gets
in his lungs, he records the experience for posterity.  
 The man is 50-year-old Francis Alys, a Belgian-born artist.
He has plunged into tornadoes in the Mexican countryside several
times over 10 years, all in the name of art.  
 The resulting video work “Tornado” (2000-10) is a
highlight of his one-man show at London’s  Tate Modern  (through
Sept. 5), which is at New York’s  Museum of Modern Art  next year.  
 An architect by training, Alys went to Mexico in 1986 to
rebuild quake-hit areas and never left. He is known for his
films: poetic commentaries on politics, injustice, conflict and,
ultimately, the futility of life.  
 Tall and lanky with long gray hair, Alys dresses like a
trendy teenager, pairing baggy trousers with Converse sneakers.
Aloof in the way artists can be, he’s late for a lunch with rich
patrons, and unfazed about it. He lingers in the gallery,
explaining his art to anyone who cares to ask.  
 For Alys, the Tate show is a privilege and a pleasant
surprise. It was not always thus; in 2001, when invited to take
part in the  Venice Biennale , he sent a peacock in his place. The
bird “was about a certain vanity of the arts within the crude
reality of our times,” he says, as we settle on a windswept
Tate terrace overlooking the Thames.  
 What made him decide to tackle the Mexican elements?  
 “In the eye of the tornado, there’s no more high and low,
no floor and sky,” he says, describing that “monochrome”
moment.  
 Wrecked Cameras  
 Alys wrecked six cameras in the years it took to produce
the 40-minute video, as he braved the tornadoes with a
handkerchief tied over his mouth. He damaged his lungs, too, and
gave up smoking right after.  
 “It’s hard to resist the attraction and the adrenaline,”
he says. “A friend of mine was comparing it to a surfer
catching the wave. When you hit it right, it’s a sublime
moment.”  
 In the video, you see him from afar, a stick man gobbled up
by a moving whirlpool. Then you experience the tornado from up
close: With his handheld camera, the panting Alys catapults you
into the cloud.  
 Beyond the “very primitive relation to the elements,”
Alys suggests a metaphorical reading of the work. In an era of
hurricanes and tsunamis, “we’ve lost control of this planet
somewhere,” he says. “There’s an echo in that kind of tornado
situation, where you’re powerless facing those phenomena.”  
 Tate has more of Alys’s movies. In “Re-enactments”
(2000), he buys a handgun and wanders around Mexico City with
it, until a police car pulls up and officers arrest him. The
next day, he reenacts the whole experiment, cops and all.  
 In “The Green Line” (2004), he pierces a small can of
light-green paint and draws a dribbly line along the former
border between East and West Jerusalem. You watch him do it on a
big screen, and pick your commentary from a choice of Arab and
Israeli voices.  
 “Francis Alys: A Story of Deception” runs through Sept. 5
at Tate Modern, 53 Bankside, London SE1 9TG. Information:
 http://www.tate.org.uk  or +44-20-7887-8888.  
 ( Farah Nayeri  is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     "Tornado," a video work by Francis Alys. The work is part of a solo exhibition of Alys at Tate Modern in London through Sept. 5. Source: Tate Galleries via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Belgian-born artist Francis Alys in Morocco. Alys is currently the subject of a solo exhibition at London's Tate Modern, through Sept. 5. Source: Tate Galleries via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
