-- Toronto Power Outage Slows Subway Service, Interrupts Prince Philip Event
-- Matt Walcoff
-- 2010-07-05T21:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/toronto-power-outage-slows-subway-service-interrupts-prince-philip-event.html

          
          
             A power outage has affected parts of
western Toronto, suspending some subway service, darkening
restaurants and interrupting an event led by the U.K.’s  Prince Philip .  
 A fire at a transformer station near Kipling Avenue in the
city’s west end contributed to the outage, which struck Canada’s
biggest city at about 4:45 p.m., according to Toronto Police and
CP24 television. Toronto Hydro officials didn’t return calls
seeking comment.  
 Subway service has been suspended from Jane Station to
Kipling Station due to the outage, and shuttle buses are
running, the  Toronto Transit Commission  said in an e-mailed
alert. The power failure also caused minor delays at Union
Station.  
 “It’s becoming a problem now because we’re not doing any
business,” Mike Berlanguet, general manger of the Far Niente
restaurant on Bay and Wellington Streets.  
 The outage struck the Fairmont Royal York hotel as Prince
Philip was presenting the Duke of Edinburgh Awards, a program
that encourages youth to participate in community service,
Canadian Press reported. Prince Philip is visiting Canada with
Queen Elizabeth II, Canada’s ceremonial head of state.  
 Prime Minister Stephen Harper is scheduled to host a dinner
for the Queen at the hotel this evening. The hotel has back-up
power and the dinner will go ahead, CP24 reported.  
 A power outage  map  on the Toronto Hydro website indicated
the affected areas were largely west of University Avenue and
south of Highway 401.  
 Temperatures in Toronto soared to 34 degrees Celsius (93
degrees Fahrenheit), making it the hottest day in three years,
CP24 television reported.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        