-- European Banks' Hidden Losses May Threaten EU Stress Tests
-- Aaron Kirchfeld
-- 2010-07-06T11:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/losses-buried-in-european-bank-balance-sheets-threaten-eu-stress-test-plan.html

          
          
             The U.S. government’s bank stress
tests a year ago helped financial stocks to rebound 36 percent
over the next seven months. Europe’s plan to follow may not be
as successful.  
 Investors say they don’t know if some banks are hiding bad
loans, whether they have enough capital to withstand a debt
default by a European state and whether governments can afford
to rescue them. The European Union still hasn’t disclosed the
tests’ criteria, including if they contain a sovereign default.  
 “There won’t be a rebound in European banks unless we have
stress tests,” said  Dirk Hoffmann-Becking , a senior research
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in London who tracks European
banks including Barclays Plc, Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG. “But
stress tests won’t resolve the sovereign debt crisis.”  
 Protecting the senior bonds of 11 U.S. banks from default
using credit default swaps costs an average of about 144 basis
points, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. In Europe,
the average cost has climbed to about 224 basis points this
year, the data show.  
 U.S. bank stocks  surged  last year after tests found that 10
banks needed to raise $74.6 billion of capital. The checks,
which examined if lenders had enough capital to weather a
recession and rising  unemployment , helped to ease investor
concerns that the overall health of the financial system was
sound by shining a light on the weakest lenders.  
 “It turned out it was a very brilliant decision,” U.S.
Bancorp Chief Executive Officer  Richard Davis  told reporters in
London on June 29. “That changed the whole market’s belief that
if the bottom is only this low then I can get back in as an
investor.”  
 U.S. Banks Rebound  
 The Standard and Poor’s 500  Financials Index  has slipped 6
percent this year, less than the Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index’s 14 percent  drop .  
 Europe’s  largest banks  are trading at a discount to their
book value while their U.S. counterparts trade at a premium.
Europe’s 20 largest lenders are trading at about 10 percent less
than the net value of their assets. The 20 biggest U.S. banks
trade at a 10 percent premium, Bloomberg data show.  
 Unlike the U.S. government, EU governments haven’t said if
they’ll provide cash to banks that fail the tests, and
economists say countries including Spain and Portugal could
struggle to fund any bailout. European lenders had $2.29
trillion at risk in Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain at the end
of 2009, including loans to governments, according to the Bank
for International Settlements.  
 ‘Real Worry’  
 “The question is whether governments can shoulder their
sovereign debt if they had to bail out half their financial
system on top of it,” said  Lothar Mentel , chief investment
officer at Octopus Investments Ltd. in London “That is the real
worry.”  
 National Bank of Greece SA , Dexia SA and  Commerzbank AG 
were the lenders whose tangible common equity was most eroded in
a simulated stress test that  Citigroup Inc.  analysts ran on 13
European firms. Their test included sovereign debt and loan
losses, they said in a June 21 report to clients.  
 Commerzbank spokeswoman  Simone Fuchs  said the lender’s
regulatory Tier 1 ratio was 10.8 percent on March 31, and would
still be close to 10 percent under the Citigroup test if it
included 16.4 billion euros ($20.5 billion) of capital the
Frankfurt-based bank received from the government last year, she
said.  
 ‘Prescribe Some Medicine’  
 Officials at National Bank of Greece, the country’s biggest
lender, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Benoit Gausseron , a
Paris-based spokesman for Dexia, declined to comment on the
Citigroup test. The lender, which was rescued by France and
Belgium in 2008, has the “capacity to take shocks,” CEO Pierre
Mariani said in a July 4 interview in Aix-en-Provence, France.  
 “You can’t just have stress tests, you’d better prescribe
some medicine as well, which is going be more capital-raising,”
said  Hank Calenti , a credit analyst at Royal Bank of Canada in
London. “If some institutions need access to government
recapitalization or other improvements, the market needs to know
how that’s going to happen.”  
 Concern about banks’ potential losses on bonds sold by the
governments of Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain helped to
increase borrowing costs for European banks this year.  
 The  difference  between the three-month euro interbank
offered rate, set by 42 European banks, and the comparable euro
London interbank offered rate, to which only seven European
banks contribute alongside U.S. and U.K. lenders, widened to a
record 7.5 basis points on June 28. The spread averaged about
one tenth of a basis point in the decade to June 2009, according
to Bloomberg data.  
 ‘Full Transparency’  
 EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
yesterday called for “full transparency” to determine banks’
resilience against financial shocks. The tests will include an
assessment of a possible sovereign-debt “shock” and extend to
“second-tier” banks, Rehn said. “Backstops” must be in place
when the results are published, he said.  
 The EU has already pledged 750 billion euros to reassure
markets and backstop the euro, which has fallen about 13 percent
against the dollar this year.  
 “There are a lot of insolvent European banks and the
question is whether we’ll see them because they give us decent
data,”  Kenneth Rogoff , the Harvard University professor and
former International Monetary Fund chief economist, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Hong Kong. “They need a lot
of restructuring. They’re in denial.”  
 Landesbanken and Cajas  
 Analysts say they are most concerned about Germany’s state-
owned lenders and Spanish savings banks because of their souring
real estate loans. Swiss, U.K. and Nordic banks are safer
investments than many euro-zone lenders because they’re less
exposed to the sovereign debt crisis, have raised more capital
and booked more writedowns, Hoffmann-Becking said.  
 “There are entire segments in the European market that
haven’t done anything close to U.S. banks in terms of putting
their house in order -- especially the Landesbanken and Cajas,”
the Bernstein analyst said.  
 Landesbanken, the state-owned regional wholesale banks,
have been reluctant to write down their property investments,
according to  Julian Chillingworth , chief investment officer at
Rathbone Brothers Plc, which manages about $21 billion.  
 “The Landesbanken system probably needs further reform,”
said Chillingworth, who’s based in London.  
 German Writedowns  
 Spain’s 45 regional savings banks are facing rising losses
after the country’s property crash. The lenders have 241 billion
euros in Spanish property loans, the Bank of Spain said, some of
which are souring as developers default and prices fall after a
decade-long housing boom.  
 Spanish savings banks may be hiding losses on home loans by
taking non-performing  mortgages  out of securitized transactions,
according to CreditSights Inc. By carrying the bad loans on
their own books the so-called cajas sidestep downgrades to their
mortgage-backed securities, the independent bond research firm
said in a report.  
 German banks’ writedowns on loans and securities will
probably reach $314 billion by the end of 2010, with state-owned
lenders and savings banks facing the bulk of the losses, the
International Monetary Fund said in a report in April.  
 “There is a pattern in Europe of trying to muddle through
without taking the hits with the hope if you don’t take the pain
things will be ok,” said Raghuram Rajan, former IMF chief
economist and a professor of finance at the Booth School of
Business at the University of Chicago.  
 German Lenders  
 Unlike U.S. banks, German, Spanish and Italian lenders
weren’t required to raise capital by their governments during
the last two years of the credit crisis. Instead, German lenders
could voluntarily tap a 480 billion-euro bank rescue fund
created by the government in October 2008.  
 Europe’s banking system is the largest in the world, with
total on-balance sheet assets of 31.1 trillion euros at the end
of 2009, making it more than three-and-a-half times the size of
the U.S. banking system, according to the  Institute of
International Finance , an industry lobby group.  
 The region’s banks have written down a proportionately
lower percentage of their assets than their U.S. counterparts.
U.S. banks will have written down 7 percent of their assets by
the end of 2010 and euro-area banks 3 percent, according to the
IMF. European banks still haven’t shown analysts they have
completed their writedowns.  
 ‘Buy Time’  
 “The general strategy of many European banks has been to
buy time and limit the worst balance-sheet hits until earnings
and asset values rebound, which has caused concern among some
investors,” said  Konrad Becker , a banking analyst at Merck
Finck & Co. in Munich. “The reclassifying of assets is one
example of this.”  
 Some European lenders used accounting-rule changes made in
October 2008, about a month after Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s collapse, to allow them to avoid writedowns on assets
based on plunging market values, unless a default was deemed
likely. Under pressure from EU leaders, the International
Accounting Standards Board approved changes letting financial
institutions in more than 100 countries that use International
Financial Reporting Standards to reclassify some investments so
they no longer had to book paper gains and losses as credit
markets fluctuated.  
 Deutsche Bank  
 Deutsche Bank, for example, used the change to shift about
38 billion euros of assets, including commercial real estate and
leveraged finance, into its loan book from the third quarter of
2008 to the first quarter of 2009, saving it a net 3.2 billion
euros in markdowns based on valuation gains and losses through
the first quarter of 2010. ING Groep NV, the biggest Dutch
financial-services company, reclassified 24.4 billion euros and
Societe Generale SA shifted 25.3 billion euros in assets,
escaping about 2.8 billion euros in losses.  
 ING reclassified the assets because it plans to hold them
for “the foreseeable future,”  Raymond Vermeulen , a spokesman
for the Amsterdam-based company, said by telephone. Deutsche
Bank spokesman  Armin Niedermeier  referred to the firm’s previous
disclosures on which assets were reclassified and the writedowns
and mark-ups the bank reported. Societe Generale spokeswoman
 Laura Schalk  declined to comment.  
 European Union leaders pledged on June 17 to disclose the
results of the stress tests by the end of July, showing how
individual banks would hold up to economic and market shocks.
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  has said it’s important to have
“maximum transparency,” after doubts about Greece’s ability to
repay its debts undermined confidence in the region’s banks.  
 “It was mistrust between the actors in the financial
markets that caused the near-meltdown,” said Mentel of Octopus.
“Unless in Europe we do everything we can to rebuild confidence
we risk heading to a situation like they had in Japan where
confidence gradually evaporates.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Bancorp Chief Executive Officer Richard Davis. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Rogoff, professor at Harvard University and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about China's real estate market and economy.
     Rogoff, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for European banks, the global economy and stimulus policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
