-- Housing Shortage Makes Australian Home Prices Almost Twice U.S.
-- Nichola Saminather
-- 2010-07-05T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/housing-shortage-defuses-australia-s-time-bomb-as-prices-top-u-s-by-82-.html

          
          
             Tamara Jenkins has been outbid about
20 times in her nine-month quest to buy an apartment in
Melbourne’s inner suburbs.  
 “I started with such enthusiasm,” the 36-year-old public
relations director said in an interview. “I’m so frustrated
with the process. I’m ready to buy, but I keep missing out.”  
 The source of her frustration -- a shortage of 200,000
dwellings -- is helping fuel Australian home prices, which are
82 percent higher than in the U.S., and disproving investors
such as  Jeremy Grantham , who says they will fall 42 percent as
interest rates rise in one of the world’s  priciest home markets .  
 “It will take years to turn the shortage around,” said
Matthew Bell, an economist at Australian Property Monitors, a
researcher  cited  by the central bank. “When it comes down to it,
that’s fundamentally what’s going to drive the market.”  
 Australia’s median home price was 6.8 times gross yearly
income last year, compared with 5.1 times in the U.K. and 2.9
times in the U.S., according to the annual  Demographia
International Housing Affordability Survey . The nation of 22
million people has six of the 10 most unaffordable cities among
the U.S., U.K., Canada, Ireland, New Zealand and Australia, the
survey showed.  
 The  median home  in Australian cities cost A$468,000
($395,000) in May, figures from real estate monitoring company
RP Data show. The median price of a  new home  sold in the U.S. in
2009 was $216,700, according to government data.  
 Population Cluster  
 Australia, the world’s sixth-largest country by size with a
land mass of 7.7 million square kilometers (3 million square
miles), had two-thirds of its people living in less than 0.5
percent of that area in June 2009, according to statistics
bureau data. Its eight state capital cities, with a population
of 14 million, occupied 38,280 square kilometers, the data show.  
 State governments on the  driest  inhabited continent -- 70
percent of Australia is  arid or semi-arid  -- aim to keep more
than half of new developments within the existing borders of the
biggest capital cities. That’s to minimize the impact of
population growth on the environment, develop underused land,
and locate homes closer to existing services and infrastructure,
according to  the National Housing Supply Council’s State of
Supply 2010 report .  
 Home prices in Australia surged 20 percent in the year to
March in an economy with a 5.2 percent  jobless rate , about half
 U.S.  and  European  levels. Melbourne and Sydney, the most
populous cities, led the way with  jumps  of 28 percent and 21
percent, respectively, statistics bureau data show.  
 Rates Concern  
 Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  has cited
house price gains among reasons for his six  interest rate 
increases since early October, to 4.5 percent, adding about
A$3,600 a year in repayments to the average A$300,000 home loan.
Interest rates will be 0.75 percentage point higher in a year’s
time, according a survey of economists by Bloomberg News.  
 Grantham, chief investment strategist at Boston-based
Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co., says higher rates may pop
Australia’s housing bubble. The nation’s home prices need to
fall 42 percent to “return to trend,” he said, without giving
a timeframe or by how much interest rates would have to rise
before that happens.  
 “It’s like a time bomb, just waiting for the rates to
become increasingly impossible to support,” he said at a media
briefing in Sydney on June 15. “All bubbles break, they’re the
only thing that matter. They break because we live in a mean
reverting world. Things go back to normal, even Australian
housing prices.”  
 ‘Colossally High’  
 Government stimulus and demand for raw materials from China
helped Australia skirt a  recession  and escape a housing slump
since the onset of the global financial crisis.  
 “The Australian housing market went through 2008 well,”
said  John Taylor , who oversees $7.5 billion at  FX Concepts LLC ,
manager of the world’s largest currency hedge fund. “But I
wonder about the 2011 and 2012 period.” Relative to incomes,
average house prices in Australia are “colossally high,”
Taylor added.  
 The credit crisis that triggered a tumble in the U.S. and
U.K. housing markets made Australian banks tighten requirements
for home loans and curb financing for new developments. That’s
prevented mortgage defaults and over-construction, the two
traits common to housing collapses, said  Alan Oster , chief
economist at National Australia Bank Ltd.  
 ‘Under-Built’  
 “There are a couple of things that are really important in
a structural sense: the growth of population and whether you’ve
over-built or under-built relative to that population,” Oster
said. “The answer there is that we’ve significantly under-
built.”  
 Over the next 10 years, Australia needs to build about
420,000 homes more than were built over the past decade to meet
demand, said  Harley Dale , chief economist at the Canberra-based
Housing Industry Association, the nation’s largest residential
building organization.  
 Housing starts will fall 3 percent in 2011 from the 165,940
forecast this year, the HIA  said  June 28, because of a lack of
land for development in the nation’s cities, falling demand from
first-home buyers and rising borrowing costs.  
 At the same time, Australia’s population growth and trend
toward smaller households are fuelling demand for housing. The
population  expanded  2 percent in the December quarter from a
year ago to 22.2 million people. It is  expected  to swell to 35.5
million by 2056, with net migration of 180,000 a year,
statistics bureau data based on current trends show.  
 Supply Shortage  
 The average  household size  will fall to 2.3 people by 2026
from a little under 2.5 now, with single-person homes increasing
to almost a third of all households by then, the data show,
adding to demand for dwellings.  
 The gap between demand and supply of residential properties
grew by 78,800 in the year to June 2009, according to a  report 
by the National Housing Supply Council, established in 2008 by
the government to monitor housing demand, supply and
affordability. The shortage will surge to 436,300 by 2019 from
about 200,000 now, the council forecasts.  
 Building  approvals  slumped 6.6 percent in May to a little
over 13,400 after government stimulus that gave as much as
A$21,000 for newly built homes was cut.  
 Christopher Wood, chief equity strategist at Hong Kong-
based CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said the first-home buyer
incentives in 2008 and 2009 -- at a time when interest rates
were at a half-century low -- may have put Australia on the path
to its own version of the subprime mortgage crisis.  
 ‘Boomerang’ Effect  
 “In the long term, that policy will boomerang back on the
Australian economy and the government because all they’ll have
succeeded in doing is incentivizing people to buy houses who
can’t afford them -- very similar to the subprime issue in
America,” Wood said.  
 Australia’s household debt to disposable income ratio was
158 percent as of March 31, based on RBA  data . That compares
with 133 percent in the  U.S.  as of 2007, prior to the housing
collapse there, according to Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco figures.  
 RBA’s Stevens said June 9 that there are signs Australian
households have “sensed” the risk of increasing levels of
leverage and are showing “a certain caution.” Home-loan
approvals fell in April for a seventh straight month, and
auction clearance rates dropped in the week to June 27,
according RP Data, the fifth consecutive week of declines.  
 For Tamara Jenkins, that’s offering a glimmer of hope.  
 “I am feeling more positive on reports that the market is
starting to slow,” she said. “That’s given me a little more
hope to at least start looking at properties seriously again.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jeremy Grantham of Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co.  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo Chief Investmente Strategist Jeremy Grantham speaks during the Ira Sohn Investmen Research Conference in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo Chief Investmente Strategist Jeremy Grantham speaks during the Ira Sohn Investmen Research Conference in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Harbor-side residences stand in the suburb of Kirribilli, in Sydney. Photographer: Jack Atley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A "SOLD" sticker has been added to a sign advertising a house for sale in Coburg, a northern suburb of Melbourne. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A sold home in Melbourne  
                       
                         
                           Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A "sold" sticker has been added to a sign advertising a house for sale in East Brunswick, a northern suburb of Melbourne. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A "sold" sticker has been added to a sign advertising a house for sale in East Brunswick, a northern suburb of Melbourne. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
