-- Lloyds Sells Integrated Finance Private Equity to Coller for $503 Million
-- Andrew MacAskill
-- 2010-07-05T15:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/lloyds-sells-integrated-finance-private-equity-to-coller-for-503-million.html

          
          
             Lloyds Banking Group Plc , the 41
percent British government-owned lender, is to sell its Bank of
Scotland Integrated Finance investment unit to private equity
firm Coller Capital for 332 million pounds ($504 million).  
 Lloyds will retain a stake of about 30 percent in a new
joint venture called Cavendish Square Partners LP, the London-
based bank said in a statement today. It values the total
business at 480 million pounds, a “small premium” to its book
value, Lloyds said.  
 “This deal will ensure that we share in any future upside
in our investments,” Lloyds Executive Director  Truett Tate  said
in the statement. “The deal with Coller, a leading private
equity investor, provides the investee companies with stability
and support over the period ahead.”  
 Lloyds  is shedding assets after the bank was bailed out by
the government and ordered to sell divisions by the European
Union last year as a consequence of receiving more than 20
billion pounds in state aid. The bank says it has raised more
than 750 million pounds through the sale of six businesses,
including Insight Investment Management and the car insurer
Esure, in the past year.  
 Integrated Finance, acquired with HBOS Plc in 2008,
provides loans and equity in management buyouts and has stakes
in 40 companies including  T.M. Lewin Shirtmakers Ltd.  and Vue
Cinemas, the bank said. The division was part of the corporate
unit led by former HBOS director  Peter Cummings  and provided
loans that funded investments by entrepreneurs including the
retailer  Philip Green , newspaper owners David and  Frederick Barclay  and  Tom Hunter . Integrated Finance contributed to the
corporate unit’s 7 billion pounds of bad loans in 2008.  
 ‘Small Premium’  
 “We wouldn’t see a disposal at a small premium to book
value as a positive,”  Bruce Packard , an analyst at Seymour
Pierce in London who has a “sell” rating on the stock.
“Presumably the investments were written down aggressively in
the first half of last year, when Lloyds took a 13.4 billion-
pound impairment charge for HBOS assets which were outside the
traditional Lloyds low-risk appetite.”  
 Lloyds  rose  0.1 percent to 54.77 pence in London trading,
valuing the bank at 37.3 billion pounds.  
 Lloyds “has shown commendable discipline in avoiding
forced sales at distressed prices,” wrote  Ian Gordon , an
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas SA in London who has an
“outperform” rating on the stock. “The run off of non-core
assets will ultimately shrink Lloyds’ heavy reliance on
wholesale funding.”  
 Coller Capital, which was founded by British financier
 Jeremy Coller  in 1990 and is based in London, in 2007 raised a
$4.8 billion fund to buy second-hand stakes in private equity
funds from investors needing to offload commitments. Recent
investments include a joint-venture with Royal Dutch Shell Plc
and the acquisition of a part of 3i Plc’s European venture
portfolio.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        