-- Pakistan Prime Minister Orders Crackdown on Militants After Shrine Bombing
-- James Rupert
-- 2010-07-06T05:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/pakistan-plans-political-talks-to-seek-consensus-on-countering-terrorism.html

          
          
             Pakistani Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  ordered his government to crack down on militant groups
following the July 1 bomb attack that killed 45 people at the
shrine of a nationally prominent Sufi Muslim saint.  
 Gilani “has clearly ordered that all activities of banned
organizations be halted,” Interior Minister  Rehman Malik  told
reporters last night. He spoke after Gilani met top security
officials and leaders of Pakistan’s four provinces, which
constitutionally are mainly responsible for police operations.  
 The government of Punjab, the most populous province,
issued a ban on 23 militant organizations that previously were
been outlawed and evaded a shutdown by changing their names, the
daily newspaper Dawn reported, without citing a source for the
information.  Hafiz Muhammad Saeed , the founder of Lashkar-e-
Taiba, the guerrilla group blamed by India for the November 2008
terrorist attack on Mumbai, has been barred from traveling
overseas, according to Dawn and a similar report in The News.  
 It remained unclear whether action against Punjab-based
militant groups will be effective. During moments of heavy
international pressure since the Sept. 11 attacks on the U.S.,
Pakistan repeatedly has declared such crackdowns, often
arresting hundreds of militant suspects, only to release all
detainees without trial weeks or months later.  
 Domestic Pressure  
 The demands for a crackdown this time are from within. Last
week’s suicide-bomb killings at the tomb of Lahore’s patron
saint, an 11th-century mystic named Abul Hassan Al-Hajweri,
sparked prayer meetings, strikes and street protests across the
country.  
 “There is a lot of pressure on the parties, but they still
are showing an absence of unity” in how to approach Pakistan’s
militant movement, said  Hasan-Askari Rizvi , a Lahore-based
political analyst.  
 While the attack on the shrine has prompted some Pakistani
clerics to denounce militant violence more openly than before,
“the parties’ divergence of views is going to be reflected in
whatever conference may be held,” Rizvi said by telephone.  
 Gilani has agreed to a proposal by the main opposition
leader, former Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif , for a multiparty
conference to seek agreement on a national counter-terrorism
strategy. Sharif’s party, the Pakistan Muslim League, runs the
government in Punjab, where the attack occurred, and has been
criticized in many of the protests.  
 ‘Taliban Talks’  
 Gilani’s Pakistan Peoples Party has rejected a call by
Sharif for the strategy to include talks with some leaders of
Pakistan’s Taliban guerrillas.  
 “We need to eliminate the Taliban, and there should be no
dialogue” with them, spokeswoman  Fauzia Wahab  told reporters on
July 4.  
 Political parties have divided over how to respond since
Pakistan’s Taliban movement began directly confronting the
government in 2004. The Peoples Party, headed by President  Asif Ali Zardari , is one of the country’s most secular parties and
has joined the military in gradually cooperating with U.S.
pressure for military offensives against the Taliban strongholds
along the northwestern border with Afghanistan.  
 Sharif’s Muslim League is based mainly in Punjab, whose
rural south is another militant stronghold, and it “suffers
from ambiguity because it has a section that overlaps with the
Islamic political parties in holding a lot of sympathy for
militancy and the Taliban,” Rizvi said.  
 Rana Sanaullah , a leading Muslim League conservative who is
the Punjab law minister, caused a nationwide debate in February
by holding a joint campaign rally in the city of Jhang with
Ahmed Ludhianvi, the head of Sipah-e-Sahaba, a banned militant
guerrilla organization. Sanaullah says he was working to pull
militants into the political process.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        