-- Palm Oil Slides for a Third Day on Further Signal of Slowing China Growth
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-07-05T10:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/palm-oil-declines-0-3-to-2-329-ringgit-a-ton-lowest-price-since-november.html

          
          
             Palm oil dropped for a third day to
the lowest in almost eight months as China’s car sales growth
slowed, adding to signs the economy of the biggest edible oil
consumer is cooling.  
 September-delivery futures declined 1.9 percent to 2,290
ringgit ($714) a metric ton, the lowest price since Nov. 16, on
the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange.  
 Sales of vehicles rose 10.9 percent from a year earlier to
839,228 units last month, the China Automotive Technology &
Research Center said today. That compares with 34 percent growth
in April and 25 percent in May, according to the center. A
Chinese services industry index slid to a 15-month low in June.
The measure fell for a third month to 55.6 from 56.4, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in an e-mailed statement.  
 “The biggest issue now is the fear or worries on China,”
said  Carey Wong , an analyst at OCBC Investment Research in
Singapore. The market was relying on China’s “urbanization to
drive long-term demand for the edible oil,” he said.  
 A stronger ringgit is also helping damp investor demand for
the tropical commodity priced in the Malaysian currency, Wong
said. “There are a lot of moving parts at the moment” that are
influencing palm oil prices, he said.  
 The ringgit advanced for a second day on expectations the
central bank will raise borrowing costs for a third time this
year, boosting the appeal of local assets. The currency rose 0.5
percent to 3.2080 per dollar as of 6:18 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur,
making commodities priced in the Malaysian currency more
expensive for overseas buyers.  
 Still, concerns about delays in oilseed planting in India,
the largest palm oil buyer, may support prices, Wong said.  
 India’s largest soybeans and peanut growing areas need rain
in a week to aid sowing and avert a drop in cooking oils output
for a second year, officials said last week. The delay in rains
is a “cause for concern but it’s too early to jump to any
conclusion on output,” B.V. Mehta, executive director of the
Solvent Extractors Association of India, said July 2.  
 -- With assistance from  David Yong  in Singapore and  Ying Tian  in
Beijing. Editors:  Ravil Shirodkar   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Manila at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        