-- Papandreou Paring Railroad Debt Losses Shows Why Taxis Cheaper
-- Maria Petrakis
-- 2010-07-05T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/papandreou-paring-railroad-losses-shows-why-cronyism-makes-a-taxi-cheaper.html

          
          
             Railroads in Greece lose more money
than anywhere else in Europe, underlining the magnitude of the
task facing Prime Minister  George Papandreou  as he tries to
rescue his country from the debt crisis that threatens the
viability of the euro project.  
 The government in Athens has pledged to stem losses for at
least part of the network and attract a buyer within a year. The
country’s railway system owes 11 billion euros ($13.8 billion),
equal to about 1,100 euros per citizen.  
 “It’s an ambitious project,” said  Chris Mallon , co-head
of European corporate restructuring at Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom LLP in London, who previously advised Greece on
the sale of carrier Olympic Airlines SA. “To make this type of
radical change, you need to bring in all the constituents from
the employees to the lenders.”  
 Greece is attempting its biggest social and economic
overhaul in a generation after overspending resulted in
borrowings estimated to be 33 percent larger than the nation’s
 gross domestic product  this year. Austerity measures introduced
since Greece disclosed in October that its budget deficit was
four times larger than euro rules allow have led to nationwide
strikes and riots in Athens that resulted in three deaths.  
 The railroad industry epitomizes the country’s excesses,
said  Evripidis Stylianidis , a former transport minister.  
 Germany’s  Deutsche Bahn AG , the biggest rail employer in
the European Union, Paris-based Societe Nationale des Chemins de
fer Français and Ferrovie dello Stato SpA in Italy were
 profitable  in 2008 before interest costs and taxes, data
compiled by the Community of European Railway and Infrastructure
Companies in Brussels show.  
 Freight Cronies  
 The Greek network, whose employees earn four times more in
salaries than total ticket sales, has just one profitable line,
the service linking Patras with Athens and Thessaloniki,
according to former Development Minister  Kostis Hatzidakis .
Cronyism in the form of heavy discounts for favored clients has
all but crippled the nation’s freight business.  
 Stylianidis drafted a restructuring plan last year for
 Trainose SA , which operates all of Greece’s routes, and Hellenic
Railways Organization SA, or OSE, which manages the tracks,
before his party was defeated in the October elections. A review
found the Greek railroads were the most unprofitable state
entity in Europe, he said.  
 “OSE costs Greeks 2 million to 2.5 million euros each
day,” Stylianidis said in an interview. “If they took a taxi
to wherever they wanted to go, it would cost less.”  
 Rail Losses  
 OSE paid 429 million euros in interest for bonds and other
financial costs in 2008, up 19 percent from 362 million euros a
year earlier, according to the most recent annual report. It had
a loss of 795 million euros on sales of 196 million euros.  
 Papandreou is introducing laws to reduce some of Europe’s
most generous pension benefits and loosening labor rules in
return for 110 billion euros of support from the European Union
and International Monetary Fund. He also raised sales, fuel and
alcohol taxes after expelling three members of his Pasok party
who had opposed the May 6 package.  
 When it comes to the railroads, Papandreou is attempting
what took previous Greek administrations 15 years in the airline
industry after several failed attempts to sell Olympic Airlines.  
 “The turnaround wouldn’t be possible without political
will and they have that now,” said George Giannopoulos,
director of the  Hellenic Institute of Transport  in Thessaloniki,
a research group partially funded by the government. “The plan
is feasible and even if achieved over longer, say two-to-three
years, it would still be a success.”  
 Asset Sales  
 Greece has about 2,550 kilometers (1,585 miles) of railway
lines, the eight-largest network among EU nations, according to
data compiled by Eurostat, the Luxembourg-based statistics
office for the European Union.  
 The rail project is part of Greece’s objective to raise a
combined 3 billion euros from selling state assets by 2013.
Stylianidis’s successor,  Dimitris Reppas , met July 1 with his
French counterpart as Greece tries to drum up interest from
foreign investors in its railway network.  
 “We have decided on and are pursuing a program to reform
Hellenic Railways,” said Reppas, according to a  transcript  of
his comments. “It’s a good starting point that draws the
attention of foreign investors or a foreign state, and I believe
France and French Rail could be an ideal partner.”  
 Greece aims for  Trainose , a former unit of OSE, to break
even within a year after cutting jobs and shutting routes.
Losses will also be reduced at OSE, according to Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Panagiotis Theofanopoulos.  
 Workforce Reductions  
 At stake are about 4,000 of the 6,500 jobs at the two
companies, 2,000 of which the government plans to transfer to
other public services, Reppas told parliament on June 25,
according to news agency ANA.  
 Another 2,000 positions will be eliminated as employees
retire over the next two years. About half of the railroad’s
workforce is older than 50, according to a study by the former
New Democracy government.  
 “Personnel cuts will be the hardest,” Theofanopoulos said
in an interview from his office in Athens. For those who stay,
pay and benefits also will be reduced, he said.  
 Greek unions, including the Panhellenic Federation of Rail
Workers, staged their fifth general strike of the year on June
29 to challenge the government proposals. Productivity at about
one-third of the European average has stifled business, said
Giannopoulos, who in 2005 published a  report  on ways to
reorganize the railways. Other EU members took six to 12 years
to reorganize their railways, his study showed.  
 Route Shutdowns  
 The plan is to close routes on two-thirds of the  network 
that are unlikely to become profitable and focus on the freight
business. That would reverse a strategy that over four decades
has left the railways with about 1.5 percent of the freight
market, down from 6.2 percent in 1970, according to
Stylianidis’s plan from last year.  
 Freight operations have also been hurt by discounts of as
much as 80 percent. The previous government sought to limit
markdowns to 40 percent for “major” clients, and by a further
10 percent with CEO approval.  
 Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said yesterday at
a press conference in Athens that Greece hired a legal adviser,
which he didn’t identify, to assist in the restructuring. A
financial adviser will be named later this month, he said.  
 Once reorganized,  Greece  is counting on selling 49 percent
of Trainose, with the buyer assuming management control. It also
will seek to sell licenses to run lines in competition with
Trainose, bringing the market in line with the rest of the EU.  
 Burdened by debt-related costs, the key to making Trainose
and OSE viable will be to free them of their obligations, about
70 percent of which is bank borrowings guaranteed by the state,
 Giannopoulos  said.  
 Bank Debt  
 Most of the debt is from international banks in Europe, the
U.S. and Japan, Theofanopoulos said, declining to identify them.
Banks may be asked to agree to separate the debt from the
operating companies, according to Mallon of  Skadden Arps .  
 “Other rail privatizations have had a mixed result, but if
they stop the bleeding and the employees are pleased, it will be
better than it is now,” Mallon said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Athens central railway station. Photographer: Kostas Tsironis/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Nicole Itano reports from Athens on the debts of the Greek railroad system, which owes 11 billion euros ($13.8 billion), equal to about 1,100 euros per citizen.
     The government has pledged to stem losses for at least part of the network and attract a buyer within a year. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Greece's Prime Minister George Papandreou  
                       
                         
                           Peter Foley/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The government in Athens has pledged to stem losses for at least part of the network and attract a buyer within a year. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The government in Athens has pledged to stem losses for at least part of the network and attract a buyer within a year. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
