-- Pope's Visit to Britain May Exceed Cost Estimate by 50%, Government Says
-- Thomas Penny
-- 2010-07-05T14:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/pope-s-visit-to-britain-may-exceed-cost-estimate-by-50-government-says.html

          
          
             Pope Benedict  XVI’s four-day visit to
the U.K. in September may cost the government as much as 12
million pounds ($18.4 million), 4 million pounds more than
previously estimated.  
 The forecast spending for the state  visit , which will start
in Edinburgh on Sept. 16 and include stops in Glasgow, London
and Birmingham, does not include the cost of policing,  Chris Patten , Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s special representative
for the trip, told reporters in London today.  
 The Roman Catholic Church has so far raised more than 5
million pounds of a 7 million-pound target to pay for its share
of the trip, said Archbishop  Vincent Nichols , Britain’s most
senior Catholic. The church does not expect the government to
subsidize parts of the visit that are “pastoral” as opposed to
fulfilling the pope’s role as a head of state, Nichols said.  
 “Not a penny is expected from public funding for those
aspects of the visit that are an expression simply of Catholic
faith,” Nichols said. The church raised 1.1 million pounds from
a  collection in churches  on May 23 and almost 4 million pounds
from private donors, he said.  
 Pope Benedict may meet with victims of child abuse by Roman
Catholic priests during his visit, Nichols said, and the pontiff
will also meet with business leaders and bankers to discuss
“the role played by faith in God in leadership in contemporary
Britain,” he said.  
 It is the first state visit to the U.K. by a pope. The last
trip, by  Pope John Paul II  in 1982, was a pastoral visit to
Britain’s Catholics, who make up 11 percent of the population of
61.8 million people, Patten said.  
 The earlier estimates of the cost, which set the total at 15
million pounds with the government paying 8 million pounds,
“were made in good faith but I think they underestimated the
complexity of a visit that pulls together the normal aspects of
a state visit and the pastoral events that are so important,”
Patten said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        