-- Property Bonds Slump Most Since '09 on Slowdown
-- Bryan Keogh
-- 2010-07-06T16:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/property-bonds-slump-most-since-march-09-on-default-risk-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Bonds sold by real-estate companies
are performing the worst compared with the rest of the market
since March 2009 on concern the slowing economic recovery will
cause more defaults.  
 Yield premiums of bonds sold by real-estate investment
trusts, shopping-mall owners and office landlords widened 9
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, more than those on other
debt in June, and continued to rise this month, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The worst performers were
 ProLogis , the largest warehouse developer, and Jacksonville,
Florida-based trust  Regency Centers Corp.   
 Yield spreads are expanding as reports last week showed
U.S. employment fell in June for the first time this year and
pending home resales dropped 30 percent in May from the previous
month. Growth in Europe’s services and  manufacturing industries 
slowed for a second month in June, London-based Markit Economics
said yesterday.  
 “Real-estate bonds are lagging the market as the global
economic recovery is weak,” said  Ivan Comerma , who manages
about 3 billion euros ($3.8 billion) as head of capital markets
at Banc International Banca Mora in Andorra. “It’s uncertain
when the property sector will start to turn a corner.”  
 The yield gap on real-estate bonds widened to an average of
236 basis points more than benchmark government debt as of
yesterday, close to the highest spread in six months and up from
223 basis points at the end of May, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Corporates, Real Estate index shows. Corporate
spreads increased 4 basis points to 197 basis points in the same
period, according to the U.S. investment bank’s Global Broad
Market Corporate index.  
 Bondholder Protection  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, indicators of corporate bond
risk in the U.S. and Europe fell. The Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index of credit-default swaps, which investors
use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or speculate on
creditworthiness, declined 2.1 basis points to a mid-price of
120.65 basis points as of 12:09 p.m. in New York, according to
Markit Group Ltd. That’s the biggest decline since June 25.  
 In London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of swaps on 125
companies with investment-grade ratings fell 2.745 to 124.38,
Markit prices show.  
 The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  
 Fidelity National Information Services Inc. , the provider
of banking and payment technology that private-equity firms
including Blackstone Group LP sought to buy, plans to sell $1.2
billion of senior notes.  
 Repay Debt  
 The offering may be split between notes that mature in 2017
and debt due in 2020, according to a person familiar with the
transaction who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set.  
 Proceeds will be used to buy back stock and repay debt used
to buy Metavante Technologies Inc., Jacksonville, Florida-based
Fidelity National said today in a statement distributed by
Business Wire. Fidelity National may repurchase as much as $2.5
billion of its shares, it said in a separate statement.  
 In addition to the notes, Fidelity National is seeking a
$1.4 billion term loan, which also will be used to pay for the
share repurchase and debt refinancing, it said in a June 29
statement.  
 ‘Overshoot’ Market  
 Real-estate investment trusts, or REITs, account for 17
percent of bonds in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Corporates, Real Estate index. REITs “tend to overshoot the
broader market when capital markets are volatile,”  Craig Guttenplan , an analyst at CreditSights Inc., wrote in an e-
mailed response to questions.  
 “Real-estate fundamentals may still be fragile but”
spreads make them look “cheap” and provided there isn’t a
double-dip recession, they should “outperform” other bonds
later this year, Guttenplan, based in London, wrote yesterday.  
 Bond sales by REITs fell 31 percent to $4.87 billion in the
second quarter from $7.07 billion in the first three months of
the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. REITs were
pummeled in 2007 and 2008 by the drop in property prices and a
decline in occupancies and rents fueled by the worst economic
slowdown since the Great Depression.  
 ProLogis Bonds  
 The extra yield on the 5.75 percent bonds due 2016 sold by
Denver-based real-estate company  ProLogis  widened 102 basis
points to 477 basis points in June, while the spread on the 6.75
percent 2012 notes from  Regency Centers , a REIT, increased 75
basis points to 295, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes.  
 Real-estate debt paid higher returns than any other
industry in the first half. Notes sold by property companies
returned 8.2 percent in that period, almost double the 4.99
percent paid by other types of company debt, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show. Property company bonds returned 1.18
percent since May 31, compared with 1.32 percent for all
corporate bonds.  
 The rally was overdone because of the state of the economy,
 Mark Kiesel , global head of corporate bond portfolio management
at Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s top bond-fund
manager, said in an interview last month.  
 Payrolls in the U.S. fell by 125,000 in June as the
government cut 225,000 temporary workers conducting the 2010
census, Labor Department figures in Washington showed July 2.  
 The drop in pending home resales was the biggest in records
dating to 2001 and compared with a 14 percent decrease forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  
 A composite index based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in  manufacturing  and service industries fell to 56 from
56.4 in May, according to Markit Economics. The result was in
line with an initial estimate published on June 23. A reading
above 50 indicates expansion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A group led by Leon Black’s Apollo took control of Gala in June in a debt-for-equity swap that cut the bingo chain’s borrowings to $2.9 billion from $3.9 billion. Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
