-- Treasuries Showing 12% Chance of Double Dip Recession
-- Daniel Kruger
-- 2010-07-06T13:42:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/treasuries-show-12-chance-of-double-dip-to-fed-as-yields-near-record-lows.html

          
          
             U.S. government bond yields are
signaling almost no chance of the economy slipping into another
recession even as stocks and commodities tumble, according to
research from the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland.  
 The  2.34 percentage point  gap between yields on two-year
and 10-year Treasuries is more than double the 20-year average
and about the same as in 2003, just before gross domestic
product rose 3.6 percent. The so-called yield curve suggests
growth won’t slow to less than 1 percent and about a 12 percent
chance of a recession in the next year,  Joseph G. Haubrich , head
of the banking and financial institutions group at the Cleveland
Fed, and  Kent Cherny , a researcher, wrote in a July 1 report.  
 Market rates conflict with growing concerns that the U.S.
economy will contract for the second time in three years. Bond
returns exceeded stocks by the widest margin in nine years
during the first half as investors retreated from higher-
yielding assets. The Labor Department reported the first drop in
employment this year on July 2. At the same time, Wall Street
expects bond yields to rise as the U.S. expansion continues.  
 “We could get a sharper move to higher yields once growth
dynamics take hold,”  James Caron , head of U.S. interest-rate
strategy at Morgan Stanley in New York, said in a July 2
interview on Bloomberg Television. “We still expect 3.5 percent
growth this year.”  
 The U.S. economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, the Commerce Department reported June 25.  
 Falling Yields  
 Morgan Stanley, one of the 18 primary dealers of U.S.
government securities, predicts 10-year yields will rise to 3.5
percent by year-end, from 2.98 percent last week. The yield has
dropped from this year’s high of 4 percent on April 5 amid signs
the economy is slowing. The yield was little changed at 2.98
percent at 9:37 a.m. in New York.  
 While bonds rallied, the Standard & Poor’s 500 index of
stocks has dropped 8.3 percent this year and the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB  Index  of 19 raw materials declined 10.2
percent.  
 The difference between 2- and 10-year yields shrunk to as
little as 2.28 percentage points on July 1, the least since
October, from a record 2.94 percentage points on Feb. 18. That
was after the Fed raised its  discount rate  for the first time
since 2006.  
 Inverted Curve  
 While an inverted curve is known for predicting recessions,
a steep one is generally a signal of growth, wrote  Joseph G. Haubrich , head of the Cleveland Fed’s banking and financial
institutions group, in the research note. An inverted curve
reflects expectations for higher interest rates and slowing
inflation. A steeper curve shows investors demanding increasing
compensation for the risk that faster economic growth will spur
inflation that diminishes the value of bonds’ fixed payments.  
 The curve inverted, with 2-year yields topping 10-year
yields, before each of the last seven recessions. There were two
“false positives,” where higher short-term rates didn’t
precede a recession, Haubrich and Cherny wrote in the report.
Haubrich and Cherny weren’t available for comment.  
 Projections of the three-month Treasury bill to 10-year
note  curve , using past values of the spread and GDP growth,
suggest the economy will strengthen by about 1 percent even with
some data suggesting a slowdown, they wrote.  
 ‘Slower Pace’  
 Economists are forecasting the U.S. economy will grow 3.2
percent this year, and 2.9 percent in 2011, according to the
median forecast of 66 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
economy shrank 2.4 percent in 2009.  
 “Things are still growing but just at a slower pace,”
said  William O’Donnell , U.S. government bond strategist in
Stamford, Connecticut at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
another primary dealer. “It’s way too premature to say we’re
headed to another double dip.”  
 While Morgan Stanley’s forecasts for growth and yields are
among the high-end of 67 strategists and economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, even firms that say the economy is weakening advise
investors to dump Treasuries because yields are too low relative
to growth prospects. Citigroup Inc., also a primary dealer,
issued a report on July 1 that concluded 10-year yields are
about 70 basis points below fair value.  
 “Concerns over a double dip now overstated,”  Brett Rose ,
a fixed-income strategist at the New York-based firm, wrote in
the report.  
 ‘Very Slow’  
 Kenneth Rogoff , the Harvard University professor and former
International Monetary Fund chief economist, said economic
recoveries under way now “are very slow.” At the same time,
“the fact that we’re not growing super fast doesn’t necessarily
say, well, therefore we’re about to enter something worse,” he
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Hong Kong.  
 Sentiment may already be shifting. The yield on the
benchmark 3.5 percent note due May 2020 rose three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, on July 2 even after the Labor
Department in Washington said the economy lost 125,000 nonfarm
jobs in June. Investors in a weekly survey by Ried Thunberg
ICAP, a unit of ICAP Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer
broker, became more bearish.  
 The firm’s index on the outlook for Treasuries through
December fell to 40 as of July 2, matching the lowest reading of
the year, from 44 a week earlier. A figure less than 50 shows
investors expect prices to fall. The company, based in Jersey
City, New Jersey, said it surveyed 26 fund managers overseeing
$1.38 trillion.  
 Bond Bears  
 Bond bears have been wrong this year. Two-year note yields
dropped to a  record low  of 0.59 percent on June 30, before
ending last week at 0.62 percent. Ten-year yields fell 13 basis
points last week to 2.98 percent.  
 Ten-year note futures due in September gained 13/32 to 122
23/32 yesterday while U.S. markets were closed for the
Independence Day holiday.  
 The curve will end 2010 at 2.33 percentage points as 2-year
yields jump to 1.37 percent and  10-year yields  rise to 3.70
percent, according to the median forecasts of 65 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 “There is no question that folks in the market are worried
about a double dip but for the most part their concerns are more
reflective of things they expect to happen and not so much a
reaction to data from the past months,” said  Stephen Stanley ,
chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut, and a former Fed economist.  
 Bonds Returns  
 Bond returns  exceeded  stock gains in the first half by the
widest margin since 2001, when the economy was in a recession.
While the MSCI World Index of 24 developed countries fell 9.5
percent including dividends, bonds gained 4.2 percent, the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Index shows,
reversing the 5.1 percentage point lead stocks had over debt
during the same period in 2009.  
 Indicators of concern about risk in the financial system,
including the cost for banks to borrow from each other and the
two-year interest-rate swap spread, have leveled off after
rising in April and May, implying relative calm in the markets,
according to  Michael Darda , chief economist with MKM Partners
LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut.  
 The three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
was 0.531 percent, little changed from May 25, after rising from
0.29 percent at the end of March, according to the British
Bankers’ Association. Two-year  swap spreads  narrowed to 34.81
basis points today from 52.25 basis points on May 24. The
average the previous 12 months is 32.25 basis points.  
 Corporate Yields  
 The spread between yields on investment-grade company bonds
and government debt also stopped widening, ending last week at
2.08 percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. That’s about the same as before credit markets
began to seize up in mid-2007 and the economy was growing at a
3.2 percent pace.  
 The widening gap between 10- and 30-year Treasury yields
suggests investors are unconvinced a recession and deflation is
an immediate risk. The  difference  was 0.96 percentage point July
2, compared with an average of about 0.43 percentage points
since 1990.  
 “You’re going to be getting respectable levels of growth
out of the economy,” said  Robert Tipp,  chief investment Repo
strategist for fixed income in Newark, New Jersey, at Prudential
Investment Management, which oversees more than $200 billion in
bonds.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Niall Ferguson, a professor at Harvard University, talks about so-called bond vigilantes and the U.S.'s debt position and fiscal policy. Ferguson talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (This is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Thomas Schroeder, managing director at Chart Partners Group Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about technical analysis of the oil market.
     Speaking from Bangkok, Schroeder also discusses the outlook for U.S. and Asia-Pacific stocks, commodity demand and the Australian dollar. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Rogoff, professor at Harvard University and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about China's real estate market and economy.
     Rogoff, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for European banks, the global economy and stimulus policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 2 (Bloomberg) -- James Caron, global head of interest-rate strategy at Morgan Stanley, discusses the outlook for Treasuries and the U.S. economy.
     Caron talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.”  (Source: Bloomberg) 
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
