-- Record Profit Upgrades Clash With El-Erian's Fizzling Recovery
-- Lynn Thomasson
-- 2010-07-06T21:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/record-profit-upgrades-by-analysts-clash-with-el-erian-s-fizzling-recovery.html

          
          
             Analysts are raising earnings
estimates for U.S. companies at the fastest rate since at least
2004 just as stocks post the biggest losses in 16 months on
concern that the economy will sink back into a recession.  
 Profit for Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies will jump
34 percent in 2010, compared with a projected gain of 27 percent
on March 29, according to more than 8,000 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The revision, the most during any quarter in at least
six years, came as lower-than-forecast home sales, manufacturing
and private-sector  job growth  sent the benchmark gauge for
American equities down 16 percent since April 23.  
 Rising income and falling prices may mean shares are cheap
enough to rise, says  Philip Orlando  of Federated Investors Inc.,
after  $2.48 trillion  was erased from equities and as bonds beat
stocks by the most since 2001.  Mohamed El-Erian  and  Bill Gross 
of Pacific Investment Management Co. say shares are no bargain
as the recovery fades. Traxis Partners LLC’s  Barton Biggs  sold
almost all his U.S. technology shares last week.  
 “The  psychology  of the stock market couldn’t be worse, yet
the valuation probably couldn’t be a whole lot better,” said
Orlando, the New York-based chief equity market strategist at
Federated, which manages $350 billion. “Because corporate
earnings estimates are rising, there’s a significant valuation
imbalance that suggests later this year stocks are going to
start going up again, and they’ll probably go up sharply.”  
 Profit Protection  
 The improving profit outlook failed to protect investors in
the second  quarter  as the S&P 500 plunged 12 percent, the most
since 2008. Wall Street firms raised 2010 estimates for U.S.
Steel Corp., Wynn Resorts Ltd. and  Citigroup Inc.  at least 78
percent during the period and the shares lost an average of 15
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Five U.S.
companies a day  boosted  profit projections last quarter,
compared with an average of five that  cut  them, the data show.  
 Through July 2, the S&P 500  slumped  9 of the prior 10 days,
losing 5 percent last week after the Conference Board cut its
estimate of Chinese growth and U.S. government reports on
employment and manufacturing trailed the median economist
projections. The stock index slipped 0.5 percent to 1,022.58 on
July 2 after the Labor Department said private employers added
83,000 jobs in June, 25 percent fewer than economists predicted.  
 The S&P 500 rallied 0.5 percent to 1,028.06 at 4 p.m. in
New York today.  
 Biggs Selling  
 Biggs, whose stock investments in March 2009 gave New York-
based Traxis a 38 percent gain last year, said concerns the
economy will contract spurred his technology sales last week.
The Commerce Department said purchases of new homes fell 33
percent in May to an annual rate of 300,000, the least on
record. The Institute for Supply Management’s manufacturing
gauge expanded in June at the slowest pace this year.  
 Buying shares after they fell to a  12-year low  pushed
Traxis’s gain to almost three times the industry average last
year, according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. While
Biggs cut his equity holdings by almost half last week, he said
the second recession in three years isn’t inevitable and that
stock gains usually slow at this stage of an economic recovery.  
 The U.S. stocks rally since March 2009 and the retreat that
began two months ago mimic the pattern set in 1982, when a bull
market that lasted five years began, according to Birinyi
Associates Inc. While the  Russell 2000  Index of small companies
tumbled as much as 20 percent since April, the research firm
says the S&P 500 may not follow it into a bear market. Since
1940, the  S&P 500  has avoided long-term declines when the
Russell 2000 plunged 20 percent at least five times, according
to Westport, Connecticut-based Birinyi.  
 GDP Expansion  
 The U.S. economy may expand 3.2 percent in 2010 and 2.9
percent in 2011, based on the median estimates from economists
polled by Bloomberg.  
 Earnings season starts next week with Alcoa Inc.’s report
on July 12. The New York-based aluminum producer is  forecast  to
post second-quarter profit of 13 cents a share, recovering from
a loss a year earlier, according to estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. At least 158 S&P 500  companies , representing about 48
percent of the index’s market value, are set to provide results
in the two weeks starting July 12, Bloomberg data show.  
 Analysts are waiting too long to incorporate a slowdown in
the U.S. economy into their estimates for company earnings,
according to El-Erian. The chief executive officer of Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco says the world is in a “new
normal” of mounting budget deficits, heightened regulation and
weaker economic growth, which will depress equity returns.  
 Structural Headwinds  
 “The second-quarter increase in analyst estimates
reflected in part an extrapolation of the cyclical bounce into a
durable, robust recovery,” he said in a July 1 e-mail. “We
expect analysts to revise down their estimates in the weeks
ahead as the economic data confirm that the cycle bounce has run
into significant structural headwinds.”  
 Wall Street firms overestimated earnings by an average of
13 percentage points in each period between the third quarter of
2007 and the end of 2008 as the first global recession since
World War II weakened demand. The S&P 500 dropped the most since
the Great Depression in 2008, and $37 trillion was  erased  from
shares globally between October 2007 and March 2009.  
 Before the April selloff, rising profit estimates helped
spur the rally in  stocks  that began in March 2009. The average
forecast for S&P 500 earnings growth in 2010 rose by more than
10 percentage points during the five quarters that ended on June
30, a period in which the S&P 500 gained as much as  53 percent ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 176% Surge  
 Forecasts were a better indicator than earnings as analysts
foresaw the rebound in income six months before it began.  Profit 
rose 176 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009, ending two years
of declines, the longest stretch on record, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  
 The proportion of S&P 500 companies that raised their
profit outlooks reached 8.6 percent during the first-quarter
reporting period from April 12 through May 18, compared with 3.4
percent that lowered forecasts, according to data compiled by
Bespoke Investment Group LLC. That’s the second-highest level of
companies increasing their  projections  since 2001, data from the
Harrison, New York-based research firm show.  
 The last time the spread was wider was the first quarter of
2004, when earnings began 14 consecutive quarters of growth. The
 S&P 500  ended that year up 9 percent. This year’s 7.8 percent
tumble in the S&P 500 has pushed its price down to 11.7 times
projected profit for the next 12 months, the lowest  valuation  on
a year-ahead basis since March 2009, Bloomberg data show.  
 Revenue, Costs  
 “Analysts should be revising their earnings estimates a
little bit higher because revenues seem to be doing OK and costs
seem to be relatively contained.” said  Tommy Huie , who oversees
about $32 billion as president and chief investment officer of
M&I Investment Management in Milwaukee. “We’re medium- to long-
term bullish.”  
 The retreat in  stocks  is creating bargains before earnings
season begins, according to Federated’s Orlando. Estimates rose
the most for industries where demand is tied to economic growth
such as metal producers,  consumer companies  and banks, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 “This is either a phenomenal opportunity or the analysts
have it wrong,” said  John Wilson , chief technical strategist at
Morgan Keegan & Co., which manages about $120 billion in
Memphis, Tennessee. “In this environment, people should be
starting to nibble at some high-quality stocks.”  
 ‘New Citi’  
 U.S. Steel  shares plunged 30 percent in the first half,
compared with a 7.6 percent drop in the S&P 500, even as first-
quarter profit  beat  the average analyst estimate by 19 percent.
The nation’s second-largest steelmaker by sales posted its
smallest loss in more than a year on April 27, helped by higher
metal prices. Between March 31 and June 30, analysts tripled
their 2010 income estimate to $2.01 a share. In that time,
shares of Pittsburgh-based U.S. Steel fell 39 percent to $38.55.  
 Citigroup , the third-biggest U.S. bank by assets, reported
first-quarter profit that more than doubled and the most  income 
for a three-month period since 2007. Chief Executive Officer
 Vikram Pandit  said in February that this year may show the
“earnings potential of the new Citi.”  
 Analysts boosted forecasts for New York-based Citigroup’s
2010 profit eightfold during the second quarter, to 33 cents
from 4 cents a share. The shares, which last posted a  better 
annual performance than the S&P 500 in 2006, dropped 7.2 percent
in the second quarter. The stock index slid 12 percent.  
 Macau Casino  
 Wynn Resorts  slid 9.1 percent in June, more than the S&P
500’s 5.4 percent decline, as analysts increased projections by
78 percent. The casino company founded by  Steve Wynn  posted
first-quarter earnings that beat the average estimate by 58
percent as  revenue  from operations in Macau, China, increased.  
 While the MSCI World Index of 24 developed countries lost
9.5 percent including dividends in the first half of 2010, bonds
gained 4.2 percent, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Broad Market Index shows, reversing the 5.1 percentage point
lead stocks had over debt during the same period in 2009.  
 “There’s more emotion in this market than we’ve ever
seen,”  Chris Hyzy , the New York-based chief investment officer
at U.S. Trust, which oversees about $188 billion, said in a July
2 interview with  Margaret Brennan  on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness.” “As you see this economic recovery take further
hold at the end of the summer, you’ll start to see business
investment pick up and earnings will drive this market.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
 Lynn Thomasson  in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mohamed El-Erian of Pacific Investment Management Co. says shares are no bargain as the recovery fades. Photographer: Gillianne Tedder/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Tommy Huie, president and chief investment officer of M&I Investment Management Corporation, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about the outlook for the U.S. economy and corporate earnings, and M&I's equity investment strategy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Jeremy Zirin, senior equity strategist at UBS Wealth Management, talks about the outlook for U.S. corporate earnings, stocks and the economy, and his equity investment strategy.
     Zirin speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 1 (Bloomberg) -- Chris Hyzy, chief investment officer at U.S. Trust Co., talks about the recent decline in the stock market and the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     Hyzy speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
