-- Reliance Natural Shares Slump After Ambani Arranges $1.53 Billion Merger
-- Archana Chaudhary
-- 2010-07-05T11:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/reliance-natural-shares-slump-after-ambani-arranges-1-53-billion-merger.html

          
          
             Reliance Natural Resources Ltd., the
natural gas supplier owned by  Anil Ambani , plunged by a record
after the billionaire arranged to sell the company to his
Reliance Power Ltd. at a discount to speed construction of power
plants.  
 Reliance Natural fell as much as 30 percent to 45 rupees
and closed at 46.30 rupees in Mumbai trading. Reliance Power
rose 3.3 percent to 181 rupees, the highest level since June 17,
2009, while the benchmark Sensitive Index fell 0.1 percent.  
 Reliance Power  offered one of its shares for every four of
Reliance Natural, valuing the target at 43.825 rupees a share,
31 percent less than its July 2 close, before the talks were
announced. The deal is worth 71.6 billion rupees ($1.53 billion),
based on Reliance Natural’s 1.63 billion shares outstanding. A
Reliance Power spokesman declined to comment on the figures.  
 The deal comes after India’s top court overturned a natural
gas supply accord between Ambani and his estranged brother on
May 7 and ordered Reliance Natural to pay higher government-set
prices for the fuel to be purchased from  Mukesh Ambani ’s
 Reliance Industries Ltd.  The merger will speed up projects by
removing a fuel intermediary, Reliance Power said today.  
 “According to government policy, utilities producing power
will be given a priority over others when gas is being
allocated,”  Rupesh Sankhe , a Mumbai-based analyst with Angel
Broking Ltd., said by telephone today. “This seems to be the
reason behind the decision to merge these two companies.”  
 Founder Stake  
 The deal will create an entity with a market value of $11
billion, the two companies said yesterday. Investors holding 80
percent of Reliance Natural shares are also shareholders of
Reliance Power, according to the statement.  
 Both companies are part of the Reliance Anil Dhirubhai
Ambani Group. The founders of Reliance Natural held 54.8 percent
of the company as of March 31, according to the National Stock
Exchange website. The stake of the founders in Reliance Power
was 84.8 percent.  
 Power plants will be “fast tracked,” Chief Executive
Officer  Jayarama Chalasani  told investors on a conference call
today. The merger will help expedite building 8,000 megawatts of
gas-fired generation capacity by Reliance Power, he said. One
megawatt is enough power for 800 typical U.S. homes.  
 Reliance Natural has four coal-bed methane blocks that can
support the generation of 2,000 megawatts of power and it has
the capacity to transport 15 million metric tons of coal a year,
Chalasani said.  
 Financial Closure  
 “It seems that Reliance Power has paid an enterprise value
of around $1.4 billion for these assets,”  Jeff Evans , a Mumbai-
based analyst with Macquarie Equities Research Ltd., said in a
note to clients today.  
 Reliance Power has power generation assets of 1,000
megawatts, according to its  website . It plans to build a total
of 33,780 megawatts of capacity, Chalasani said on Dec 29.  
 “Reliance Natural’s shareholders will benefit from the
proposed amalgamation by participating in future growth
prospects of Reliance Power’s diversified generation portfolio
of 37,000 megawatts, and its substantial coal reserves in India
and abroad,” the two companies said in a joint statement
yesterday.  
 Evans said Reliance Power has spent only 5 percent of the
potential expenditure needed to implement its plans and achieved
financial closure on 17 percent of its projects. “We believe
there is still a long way to go regarding execution,” he said.  
 The world’s richest brothers split India’s second-biggest
business empire five years ago after their father died in 2002
without leaving a will and had squabbled ever since as their
business interests collided. The Supreme Court verdict prompted
them on May 24 to scrap family agreements that prevented them
from competing and the two have pledged to work harmoniously.  
 The court order meant Reliance Natural would pay Reliance
Industries a 79 percent higher price for the gas than stated in
the family agreement. Reliance Natural and Reliance Industries
said June 25 they signed a revised gas contract over supply of
gas from India’s largest field to comply with the ruling.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net ;
 Archana Chaudhary  in New Delhi at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Reliance Natural Resources Chairman Anil Ambani at news conference in New Delhi. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
