-- Renewable Energy Corp. Rises in Oslo on Chinese Subsidies, U.S. Solar Loan
-- Marianne Stigset
-- 2010-07-05T11:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/renewable-energy-corp-rises-in-oslo-on-chinese-subsidies-u-s-solar-loan.html

          
          
             Renewable Energy Corp. ASA , the
Norwegian maker of solar energy components, advanced after a
Chinese province set a power purchase price for solar plants and
the U.S. announced loan guarantees for the industry.  
 REC rose as much as 7 percent to 15.77 kroner, its biggest
gain since June 15, and traded at 15.33 kroner at 1 p.m. in
Oslo. The stock has slumped 59 percent this year, valuing the
company at 15 billion kroner ($2.3 billion).  
 President  Barack Obama  on July 3 announced $1.85 billion in
loan guarantees to Abengoa SA of Spain and Abound Solar Inc. to
build sun-powered facilities in the U.S. The eastern China
province of Shandong, meanwhile, set a purchase price of 1.7
yuan (25 cents) a kilowatt-hour for photovoltaic power plants
for 2010, the government said on its website.  
 “Obama announced around $2 billion to solar companies in
loan guarantees, this has lifted the whole sector, and Chinese
subsidies for the solar industry were approved,”  Tomas Skeivys ,
a Vilnius, Lithuania-based analyst with Terra Markets who has a
“buy” recommendation for REC, said by phone. “The stock has
been really weak recently so it’s a rebound candidate.”  
 REC, Sandvika, Norway-based, said in March it will issue 4
billion kroner in new equity to help fund 25 billion kroner in
investments as it expands production of modules, wafers and
cells to meet demand for energy that doesn’t emit carbon
dioxide. Declining prices and lower demand for its products in
an industry facing overcapacity has hurt earnings. A polysilicon
plant in Moses Lake, Washington, also faced delays.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Dag Opedal  of Orkla ASA, which owns
a 40 percent stake in  REC , said July 2 he will step down while
retaining his role as chairman of REC. Orkla may sell its stake
in REC after the stock’s disappointing performance, the
Norwegian newspaper  Aftenposten  on July 3, cited Orkla Chairman
 Stein Erik Hagen  as saying.  
 “Nothing’s been decided, it’s a possibility,” Hagen said
in an Oslo interview today regarding the sale of the REC stake.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Marianne Stigset  at   mstigset@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        