-- Rogers Investment Wins $90 Million Hedge-Fund Mandate From Japan Investor
-- Tomoko Yamazaki
-- 2010-07-05T02:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/rogers-investment-wins-90-million-hedge-fund-mandate-from-japan-investor.html

          
          
             Rogers Investment Advisors K.K.,  a
Tokyo-based fund-of-hedge-funds adviser, said it won a mandate
worth about $90 million from a Japanese institutional investor,
adding to signs of recovery in the nation’s hedge-fund industry.  
 The allocation will be made on Aug. 1, bringing the firm’s
advisory assets under management to $130 million,  Ed Rogers ,
chief executive officer, said in a telephone interview today.
The money is coming from a Japanese foreign investment trust
distributed by one of the largest Japanese financial
institutions and is part of a closed-end fund ending in 2013, he
said, declining to name the investor.  
 “This is a sign of on-going alpha opportunities in the
Japanese hedge-fund space and a result of four years of hard
work in building out our business,” said Rogers. “We hope and
expect to win more of these mandates going forward.”  
 Rogers’s  Wolver Hill  Japan Multi-Strategy Fund, which is a
Japan-focused fund of hedge funds, has returned 3.2 percent, net
of fees in 2010 through June, according to Rogers. That compares
with a 7.3 percent decline by Japan’s benchmark Topix index and
a 2.8 percent gain by the  Eurekahedge Japan Hedge Fund Index  in
the same period.  
 The mandate increase comes as Japanese pension funds plan
to boost alternative-investment allocations, including hedge
funds. About 37 percent of Japanese pensions surveyed by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s asset management unit said they expect to
boost allocations to alternative investments, according to
report published by the bank in April.  
 Hedge funds are private, largely unregulated pools of
capital whose managers can buy or sell any assets and
participate substantially in profits from money invested.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.ne   
          
          


  


        