-- Russia Moves Closer to Creating a Common Market With Belarus, Kazakhstan
-- Patrick Henry
-- 2010-07-05T10:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/russia-moves-closer-to-creating-a-common-market-with-belarus-kazakhstan.html

          
          
             Russia took a step toward a common
economic market with neighbors Belarus and Kazakhstan as the
three countries’ leaders signed a joint Customs Code in the
Kazakh capital Astana.  
 “A lot of work remains before the formation of a common
economic space,” planned for Jan. 1, 2012, “but given that it
really is a beneficial and interesting endeavor, I’m sure we can
agree on everything,” Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  said in
Astana today, according to the Kremlin  website .  
 If the three former Soviet republics succeed in creating a
common market, the adoption of a joint currency would be the
“next logical step,”  Igor Shuvalov , a Russian first deputy
prime minister, said in March. Russia has sought to promote
regional currencies in trade and to diversify its reserves, the
world’s third-largest, to reduce risks posed by the dominance of
the dollar.  
 Plans for the Customs Code to come into force on July 1
were derailed by differences on energy policy. Belarus, the
smaller of OAO Gazprom’s transit routes to Europe, has demanded
to pay Russian prices for gas, which are lower than fees charged
to other countries. The dispute with the Russian gas export
monopoly over mutual debts led to a brief reduction of supplies
to Lithuania last month.  
 Belarus still maintains that the customs union, which takes
effect tomorrow, should eliminate export taxes on all goods,
including energy, Interfax reported today, citing Shuvalov.  
 Russia insists that export duties can be charged until the
common market comes into force, the Moscow-based news service
said, citing Shuvalov.  
 The presidents of Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan,  Roza Otunbayeva  and  Emomali Rakhmon , said in televised comments that
their countries are considering joining the customs union.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Moscow at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        