-- Russia Credit Swaps Surpassing Turkey Keep Kudrin Waiting for Debt Upgrade
-- Michael Patterson
-- 2010-07-06T09:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/russia-credit-swaps-surpassing-turkey-keep-kudrin-waiting-for-debt-upgrade.html

          
          
             Russian Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  says the world’s largest energy exporter deserves a
higher credit rating. The biggest jump in bond insurance costs
since 2008 shows investors disagree.  
 Credit-default swaps protecting against Russia reneging on
its debt climbed 52 basis points last quarter, the most since
the final three months of 2008, and traded at 194 yesterday,
according to CMA DataVision prices. Five-year contracts on
Russia, rated BBB by Standard & Poor’s, cost more than those for
Turkey and Indonesia, both ranked three steps lower at BB, and
the Philippines, which has a BB- grade. Russia swaps were
cheaper as recently as May 18.  
 While Kudrin’s July 2 prediction that Russia may earn a
higher rating is backed by the lowest debt level among the Group
of 20 nations, the government’s foreign-currency  bonds  fell 1.3
percent last quarter on concern slowing global economic growth
will curb demand for oil and gas. Russia swaps would have to
drop by more than 30 percent to match contracts on Thailand,
rated one step higher by S&P at BBB+.  
 “We don’t think there’s likely to be an upgrade in the
foreseeable future,” said  Nigel Rendell , a senior emerging
markets strategist in London at RBC Capital Markets. “We’ve got
a pretty nervous external backdrop with global growth and Russia
is still very much a one-trick pony with the oil. We’re saying
sit on the sidelines.”  
 Deficit Drop  
 Urals crude, Russia’s top export earner, tumbled 15 percent
in the past three months to $70.83 a barrel as budget cuts by
European governments and China’s efforts to curb inflation
increased speculation growth in global demand may stall.
Manufacturing growth from China to the euro region and the U.S.
slowed in June, reports showed last week.  
 “We expect Russia’s financial rating to be raised after
the end of the crisis, and thereby confirm again the stability
of our financial system,” Kudrin said at a conference in Yalta,
Ukraine, according to a July 2 transcript of his remarks on the
Finance Ministry’s Web site.  Pavel Kuznetsov , a spokesman for
Kudrin in Moscow, declined to elaborate on the comments.  
 Russia’s budget deficit may fall to 5.4 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 5.9 percent in 2009, the
government said last month. The country needs an oil price of
$90 to $100 a barrel to balance its budget,  Neil Shearing , an
emerging-markets economist at London-based Capital Economics,
wrote in a May 18 report.  
 Lower Debt  
 Russia’s government debt at 7.7 percent of gross domestic
product this year compares with an average 80 percent for G-20
countries, International Monetary Fund estimates show. Turkey’s
debt will reach 50 percent of GDP this year, IMF projections
from November show.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Russia’s government
bonds over U.S. Treasuries rose 131 basis points, or 1.31
percentage points, in the second quarter, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index. The so-called yield spread fell one
basis point to 2.80 percentage points as of 9:59 a.m. in London.  
 Russia’s last credit-default swap price of 194 basis points
compares with 190 on Turkish debt, 178 for Indonesia, 168 for
the Philippines and 129 for Thailand, according to CMA in New
York. A basis point on a contract protecting $10 million of
bonds from non-payment for five years is equivalent to $1,000 a
year. Investors use the contracts to hedge against losses on
debt or speculate on creditworthiness.  
 Need to Diversify  
 Yields on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell four basis
points today to 5.45 percent, the lowest level in a week. The
ruble strengthened 0.2 percent to 31.0899 per dollar. Non-
deliverable forwards, which provide a guide to expectations of
currency movements as they allow foreign investors and companies
to fix the exchange rate at a specific level in the future, show
the ruble weakening to 31.2772 per dollar in three months. RTS
stock index  futures  expiring in September climbed 1.8 percent.  
 Kudrin said in January that the government’s sale of
international bonds may spur credit-rating companies to boost
Russia. S&P, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have
kept their rankings unchanged since Russia issued $5.5 billion
of debt in April, returning to world capital markets for the
first time since defaulting on ruble debt 1998.  
 S&P said it’s looking for evidence the government is
committed to broadening the economy for its rating to improve.  
 “The outlook on Russia’s rating is stable, this pretty
much says it all,”  Frank Gill , a London-based credit analyst at
S&P, said in an interview yesterday. “We’ll continue to look at
the government’s commitment toward policies which would help to
diversify the economy. There’s little evidence so far.”  
 Russian Silicon Valley  
 Moody’s has concerns about Russia’s “institutional
strength, and to some extent economic strength,”  Dietmar Hornung , a senior credit officer in Frankfurt, said in an
interview. Moody’s rates Russia Baa1, or the third-lowest
investment grade.  
 “The stable outlook speaks to our view for the next 12 to
18 months,” Hornung said.  
 Credit-default swaps are volatile and Fitch Ratings focuses
on “credit fundamentals,”  Edward Parker , the company’s London-
based head of emerging Europe, said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg News.  
 “Fitch views the return to economic growth, decline in
inflation, stronger than expected performance of the banking
sector and move to greater exchange rate flexibility as positive
developments,” Parker said. “However, the steep fall in GDP
during the crisis highlighted various structural weaknesses and
the increase in Russia’s non-oil budget deficit leaves it
vulnerable in the event of another drop in oil prices.”  
 ‘Back Burner’  
 Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  plans to build a Russian
version of Silicon Valley for technology companies and make
Moscow a global financial hub to reduce the country’s reliance
on oil for government revenue and economic growth. The
government will use tax incentives and other free-market
economic policies to turn the country into a destination for
innovators from around the world, he said at the annual St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum last month.  
 It may be years before the plans have an economic effect,
said RBC’s Rendell.  
 “These efforts take many years to implement and see
through,” he said. “Oil and gas are so plentiful that other
things get pushed to the back burner.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “We expect Russia’s financial rating to be raised after the end of the crisis, and thereby confirm again the stability of our financial system,” Kudrin said. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
