-- Sarkozy Ministers Quit Over Expenses as Bettencourt Tax Disclosures Loom
-- Heather Smith
-- 2010-07-05T09:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/sarkozy-ministers-quit-over-expenses-as-bettencourt-tax-disclosures-loom.html

          
          
             The  resignation  of two ministers from
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy’s Cabinet  late yesterday over
their expenses came as officials fend off criticism over
potential conflicts of interest.  
 An appellate judge is set to decide this week whether to
permit a probe into secretly recorded tapes that were leaked to
the French media linking Sarkozy and Labor Minister  Eric Woerth 
to a tax probe involving the  country’s richest  woman,  L’Oreal SA 
heiress  Liliane Bettencourt .  
 With  his popularity at its lowest level  since he took
office, Sarkozy is preparing a pension overhaul, led by Woerth.
In the tapes, Bettencourt, 87, is heard being told by an
unidentified adviser to make political donations to them because
she “needs friends” and advised how to hide assets to dodge
taxes, according to transcripts and audio files of the
recordings on Mediapart, an online news agency, and  Le Point 
weekly magazine. Woerth has denied any wrongdoing.  
 “This puts huge pressure on Sarkozy,” said  Laurent Dubois , a professor at Paris’s Institute of Political Studies.
“Reports this past month have shown many ministers and now a
major taxpayer abused the system, abused privileges. At the core
of an economic crisis, it’s a disaster.”  
 The first political casualties came late yesterday. Sarkozy
announced the departure of  Christian Blanc , secretary of state
for the Paris region, and Oversees Cooperation Minister  Alain Joyandet . Blanc bought 12,000 euros ($15,000) of cigars with
public money, which he pledged to repay. Joyandet had confirmed
reports that he chartered a private jet for 116,500 euros to
attend a conference in Martinique in March.  
 Tax Refund  
 Mediapart  has reported that Bettencourt received a 30
million-euro refund in 2008 under Sarkozy’s tax-ceiling law,
which limits to 50 percent an individual’s total tax payments.
Budget Minister  Francois Baroin  and Woerth, his predecessor,
issued statements July 2 confirming the amount and defending
returns granted under the policy.  
 Finance Ministry investigators will probe allegations of
conflict of interest by Woerth, who oversaw the tax office and
whose wife was a Bettencourt financial adviser, Baroin said on
 France 2  television June 30.  
 Baroin also said they will audit Bettencourt,  L’Oreal’s 
biggest shareholder. She said in a June 21 statement she will
declare assets kept abroad, saying she is “one of the leading
private contributors” to the French treasury.  
 Bettancourt was ranked as the world’s 17th richest person,
with assets of $20 billion, making her No. 2 in France behind
 Bernard Arnault , chief executive officer of LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA.  
 ‘Serious’ Affair  
 The Bettencourt case, which stems from her daughter’s
complaint over assets the L’Oreal heiress gave to a family
friend, has led to calls for Woerth’s resignation from
opposition Socialists. A July 1 poll in  Le Parisien newspaper 
showed 56 percent deemed the affair “serious.” Sarkozy and
Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  both voiced support for him.  
 “The question is whether Eric Woerth is an honest man or
not, it’s about whether or not he has a conflict of interest,”
 Eva Joly , a member of European Parliament for Europe Ecology and
former judge, said on RMC radio today. “To preserve public
confidence, the minister must perceived not to have a conflict
of interest.”  
 The Versailles appeals court president will decide this
week whether to allow prosecutors to appeal a July 1 lower-court
decision to investigate the recordings, made by Bettencourt’s
then-butler. The tapes purport to provide details on how
Bettencourt’s advisers counseled her to move money hidden in
Switzerland to another account.  
 Union Protests  
 This came the same month labor unions led marches
protesting Sarkozy’s plan to ask people to work two more years
to save the pensions system. He has also frozen public workers’
pay and cut off 10 percent of tax breaks. France’s economy grew
0.1 percent in the first quarter and may not reach a forecasted
1.4 percent for the year as jobseekers rose to 2.7 million in
May, the highest since May 2005.  
 “The situation is getting more difficult as days pass.
These very public scandals are eroding Sarkozy’s credibility,”
 Carine Marce , head of the opinion division at pollster TNS
Sofres said in an interview. “Maybe the summer recess will cool
things down.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        