-- Sasol Antitrust Agreement on Fertilizer May Cut its Sales by $39 Million
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-07-05T15:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/sasol-antitrust-agreement-on-fertilizer-may-cut-its-sales-by-39-million.html

          
          
             Sasol Ltd. , South Africa’s largest
ammonia supplier, said a proposed antitrust settlement that
requires the sale of fertilizer assets may cut revenue by as
much as 300 million rand ($39 million).  
 The company agreed to sell five blending plants and
reorganize its fertilizer unit to allay an antitrust regulator’s
concerns it abused its position in the market, the Pretoria-
based Competition Commission said in a statement today.  
 The agreement will ensure Johannesburg-based Sasol “does
not exclude its smaller rivals” and ensures “better prices for
farmers,” Competition Commissioner  Shan Ramburuth  said.
Fertilizer is a key input in farming, accounting for a
significant portion of the costs of production, he said.  
 Sasol is South Africa’s largest ammonia supplier and the
world’s largest producer of motor fuels from coal. It also
produces polymers, solvents and wax, amongst other things.  
 Sasol was also fined 251 million rand last year for
breaking anti-cartel rules in South Africa’s fertilizer
industry. The company began a review of competition compliance
in 2008, when it was fined 318 million euros ($398 million) by
European Union regulators for allegedly participating in a wax
cartel. South African antitrust regulators are still
investigating other parts of the company’s business.  
 “We estimate between 250 million rand and 300 million rand
of turnover will be impacted by the disposals,” Sasol said in
an e-mailed response to queries today. The company has less than
15 percent of the country’s liquid fertilizer blending capacity,
it said. Sasol’s total revenue was 58 billion rand in the six
months ended Dec. 31.  
 The settlement agreement, which also stipulates other
changes, is not an admission of guilt by Sasol and is subject to
approval by the Competition Tribunal, which will hear the
application on July 14, the commission said.  
 Sasol fell  55 cents, or 0.2 percent, to 276.20 rand in
Johannesburg, giving it a market value of 184.5 billion rand.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        