-- HSBC Clients With Asian Accounts Said to Face U.S. Tax Probe
-- David Voreacos
-- 2010-07-06T20:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/hsbc-clients-with-indian-singapore-accounts-said-to-face-u-s-tax-probes.html

          
          
             The Justice Department is conducting
a criminal investigation of  HSBC Holdings  Plc clients who may
have failed to disclose accounts in India or Singapore to the
Internal Revenue Service, according to three people familiar
with the matter.  
 One client got a letter from the Justice Department in late
June that said prosecutors had “reason to believe that you had
an interest in a financial account in India that was not
reported to the IRS on either a tax return” or a Treasury
Department report disclosing foreign accounts, according to
copies read to Bloomberg News by lawyers who have seen the
letters.  
 “This is a global initiative by IRS and the Department of
Justice,” said  Robert McKenzie , an attorney at Arnstein & Lehr
in Chicago who said he spoke to two people who got letters.  
 The probes show how the U.S. is expanding its crackdown on
offshore tax evasion beyond Switzerland and  UBS AG , the largest
Swiss bank, said  Barbara Kaplan , a tax lawyer at Greenberg
Traurig LLP in New York. London-based HSBC is Europe’s biggest
lender by market value.  
 “It’s clear that the IRS and the Department of Justice are
intending to pursue other depositors outside of Switzerland,”
Kaplan said. “They’ve announced it before, and they are moving
forward in that regard.”  
 The letters could mean that prosecutors got data on HSBC
account holders from the bank, McKenzie said.  
 ‘Providing These Names’  
 “My speculation is that there has to be some level of
cooperation within HSBC, or someone within HSBC providing these
names to the government,” McKenzie said. “I would bet, under
pressure, HSBC cooperated.”  
 HSBC spokeswoman  Diane Bergan  declined to comment.  
 UBS avoided prosecution last year by admitting it aided tax
evasion from 2000 to 2007, paying $780 million, and agreeing to
disclose secret account data on more than 250 clients. It later
agreed to disclose data on another 4,450 clients.  
 Seventeen UBS clients, two bankers and three alleged
enablers of tax crimes have been prosecuted since the bank
signed the deferred prosecution agreement. Another 15,000 U.S.
residents sought to avoid prosecutions last year by disclosing
offshore accounts.  
 IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman  said last October his
agency was scouring those disclosures “to identify financial
institutions, advisers and others” who helped taxpayers cheat
on taxes. He said the IRS is hiring 800 people in the next year
and increasing staff in eight overseas offices, including Hong
Kong. It also will open offices in Beijing, Sydney and Panama
City.  
 Not Named  
 The letters don’t mention HSBC by name, yet are all
directed to people with accounts at the bank, according to
lawyers who saw them. About a dozen HSBC clients got letters in
late June from  Kevin Downing , a senior attorney in the Justice
Department’s tax division who led the UBS probe, according to
the people.  
 “You are advised that you are a subject of a criminal
investigation being conducted by the Tax Division,” according
to one letter read to Bloomberg News.  
 Destroying or altering documents relating to the probe
“constitutes a serious violation of federal law, including but
not limited to obstruction of justice,” according to the
letter.  
 Dallas tax attorney Josh Ungerman, who saw a letter, said
he spoke to an HSBC customer who was a “small fish” with an
account valued at under $1 million. This customer, he said, was
born in India and now is retired on the East Coast of the U.S.  
 ‘They Are Devastated’  
 “Many taxpayers in India had Indian tax withheld,”
Ungerman said. “Those taxpayers believed they were entirely tax
compliant and when faced with the realities of the IRS and
Department of Justice view on undisclosed foreign accounts, they
are devastated.”  
 By “going after the small fish, the U.S. government risks
driving underground entire populations of taxpayers who believed
they were compliant,” said Ungerman of Meadows, Collier, Reed,
Cousins, Crouch & Ungerman LLP.  
 Tax attorney Larry Campagna said that prosecutors often
give taxpayers a chance to explain their accounts to the Justice
Department. Campagna represents clients of banks in the offshore
tax investigation and hasn’t seen the letters.  
 Sometimes such letters lead to a guilty plea, and sometimes
there’s an explanation that causes a prosecution to drop the
investigation, said Campagna of Chamberlain Hrdlicka in Houston.  
 India Ties  
 The letters went to U.S. residents who have ties to India,
including people who inherited money from relatives or
maintained assets there after leaving the country, according to
three lawyers who read them and asked not to be identified. Some
letters referred to undisclosed bank accounts in Singapore, two
of the lawyers said.  
 “We’ve been telling our clients that the non-disclosure of
foreign accounts is not just a UBS problem,” said tax attorney
 Richard Sapinski  of Sills Cummis & Gross in Newark, New Jersey,
who represents clients in the offshore investigation. He doesn’t
have a client who got a letter.  
 “We’ve spoken to the prosecutors and high-level people in
the IRS, and our conclusion was they were going to pursue people
with undisclosed foreign accounts anywhere for a very long time
to come,” he said.  
 ‘First Shot’  
 Sapinski’s partner, Lawrence Horn, said the letters are “a
first shot across the bow and a wake-up call” to clients.  
 “It’s sent to an individual who may not be aware that he
or she may be under criminal investigation,” Horn said.  
 Several weeks ago, Downing toured Singapore, Hong Kong and
Beijing, meeting with regulators and bankers about offshore tax
prosecutions. He spoke to tax lawyers at a conference sponsored
by New York University on June 18.  
 “We just took down the largest private wealth management
bank in the world,” Downing said, referring to UBS. “Do you
really think we’re going to have trouble doing the next one?”  
 He referred to his tour in Asia, saying: “Neither the
banks nor the governments want to have a UBS-type situation.
They want to do it nice and quiet. They don’t want to be the
focus of attention. The Department of Justice and IRS are
devoting a ton of resources to this issue.”  
 The Justice Department has charged three HSBC clients with
tax crimes in the past year.  
 A Virginia surgeon, Andrew Silva, was sentenced to two
years of probation after admitting he hid assets at HSBC from
U.S. tax authorities and smuggled more than $200,000 in cash to
his home when the bank said it would close his Swiss bank
account.  
 Two Miami Beach hotel developers, Mauricio Cohen Assor and
his son Leon Cohen Levy, were indicted on charges of hiding more
than $150 million in assets from the IRS, including accounts
held at HSBC. They have pleaded not guilty and face a Sept. 7
trial in federal court in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carlyn Kolker  in New York
at   ckolker@bloomberg.net ;
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     IRS Commissioner Douglas Schulman has said the agency would be hiring 800 people and increasing staff in eight overseas offices. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Betty Liu reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 7 (Bloomberg) -- Robert McKenzie, an attorney at Arnstein & Lehr
in Chicago, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the U.S. government's crackdown on offshore tax evasion.  
     The Justice Department is conducting a criminal investigation of HSBC Holdings Plc clients who may have failed to disclose accounts in India or Singapore to the Internal Revenue Service, according to three people familiar with the matter. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
