-- Services Growth Quickens to a Two-Year High, Increasing Pressure on Rates
-- Unni Krishnan
-- 2010-07-05T05:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/services-growth-quickens-to-a-two-year-high-increasing-pressure-on-rates.html

          
          
             Growth in India’s services industry
including software and telecommunications accelerated to a two-
year high in June, maintaining pressure on the central bank to
raise interest rates and curb inflation.  
 The HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics Purchasing
Managers’ Index rose to 64 from 58.2 in May, according to an e-
mailed report today. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  
 Central bank Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  is under pressure to
add to last week’s quarter-percentage point increase in rates as
consumer demand strengthens. Inflation may quicken by about a
percentage point after the government on June 25 raised fuel
prices, the Reserve Bank of India estimates.  
 “India’s economy is still going strong,”  Frederic Neumann , a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC, said in the
report. “The RBI needs to hike rates to put inflation back in
the bottle and make the cork stick.”  
 The benchmark wholesale-price  inflation  rate rose to 10.16
percent in May.  
 The Reserve Bank boosted the reverse repurchase and
repurchase rates to 4 percent and 5.5 percent, respectively, in
an unscheduled announcement on July 2, and added it will “take
further action as warranted.” The RBI’s next monetary policy
meeting is scheduled for July 27.  
 Fuel Prices  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  freed gasoline prices to cut
subsidies, allowing refiners to charge about 3.5 rupees (7.5
cents) more a liter. The government also permitted diesel costs
to rise by 2 rupees. Diesel pricing will eventually be freed,
the government said.  
 India’s $1.2 trillion gross domestic product expanded 8.6
percent in the first quarter of this year from a year earlier,
the fastest pace after China and Brazil among major economies.
Industrial output jumped 17.6 percent in April.  
 Growing demand prompted Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.,
India’s largest software services provider, to offer more than
20,000 jobs in the year ended March 31, according to its
 website .  
 Wireless telecommunication companies added 16.3 million new
customers in April, about 3 percent more than the previous
month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        