-- Sex Diseases Tripled in Men 40 or Older Taking Viagra, Cialis, Study Says
-- Nicole Ostrow
-- 2010-07-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/sex-diseases-are-higher-in-over-40-men-on-viagra-cialis-to-boost-potency.html

          
          
             Men taking drugs for sexual potency
showed almost triple the rate of sexually transmitted diseases
compared with those not taking the medications, a Harvard
University study found.  
 The results, from an analysis of the health insurance
claims of men aged 40 and older, may have more to do with the
nature of the men using the  impotence  drugs than with the
medicines leading them to have riskier sex, the research report
said. The study, looking at men taking  Pfizer’s Inc.  Viagra and
 Eli Lilly & Co.’s  Cialis, was published today in the  Annals of
Internal Medicine .  
 The higher rate of infections was seen in the year before
and after the men started taking the prescription medicines,
according to the analysis. That suggests that users of drugs to
treat erectile dysfunction, which also include  Bayer AG’s 
Levitra, may be more likely to engage in unsafe sex than
nonusers, lead study author  Anupam Jena  said.  
 “Younger people have more sex partners than older folks,”
said Jena, a medical resident in internal medicine at
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School in
Boston, in a June 29 telephone interview. “But per sexual
encounter, the actual safeness of the sex is probably lower
among older folks in the sense that they don’t use condoms,” he
said.  
 About 19 million new sexually spread infections occur each
year in the U.S., almost half of them among people ages 15 to 24
years old, according to the  U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention .  
 HIV in Middle-Aged  
 Still, people aged 40 to 49 accounted for the largest
proportion of  newly diagnosed  HIV/AIDS cases, 27 percent, in
2007, according to the CDC. Those 50 to 59 accounted for 13
percent, while those over the age of 60 accounted for 4 percent.  
 “Old folks can contract STDs and we need to be vigilant
about it,” Jena said.  
 The researchers looked at health insurance claims from 44
large U.S. employers from 1997, one year before Viagra was
introduced, through 2006. They examined the claims of men over
the age of 40 to see if they were prescribed erectile
dysfunction drugs, finding 33,968 who used the impotence pills
and about 1.38 million who did not.  
 The research found that in 2006, 3.6 percent of the men
used Viagra from New York-based Pfizer; 1.7 percent took Cialis
from Indianapolis-based Lilly, and 1 percent were getting
Levitra from Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer.  
 Sexual Behavior Unknown  
 The authors weren’t able to determine how many of the men
were married and how many were heterosexual or other information
on sexual behavior.  
 In the year before taking the pills, users of ED drugs had
an overall  STD  rate of 214 per 100,000 people, the study found.
That gave them a 2.8 times greater risk of developing a sexually
spread infection than men who didn’t take the drugs.  
 That decreased slightly in the year after, when pill-takers
had a 2.65 times higher risk than non-takers, the study showed.  
 The risk of getting HIV in the year before taking the pills
was 3.32 times higher in drug-takers and 3.19 times greater in
the year after, compared with those not taking the pills, they
said. Users of the medicines also had higher rates of  chlamydia .  
 Seeking Treatment  
 The rates of HIV may be higher than other infections
because the men seek treatment from their doctor for HIV
symptoms like fever and weight loss, Jena said. Men may go to
free clinics to treat other sexually transmitted diseases like
herpes and gonorrhea, he said.  
 An editorial accompanying the research article, entitled
“Life Begins at Forty,” urged doctors to advise older patients
to remember safe-sex precautions if they ask for erectile
dysfunction drugs.  
 “STD counseling should not stop at age 40,” said the
editorial written by Thomas Fekete, professor of medicine at
Temple University in Philadelphia.  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tablets of Pfizer's erectile dysfunction drug Viagra. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
