-- Gulf Property Crash Drives Shariah Loans to Five-Year Low: Islamic Finance
-- Soraya Permatasari
-- 2010-07-05T02:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/shariah-loans-reach-five-year-low-as-property-prices-drop-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             Shariah-compliant loans slumped to a
five-year low in Europe, the Middle East and Africa in the first
half on credit-ratings downgrades and falling property prices.  
 Islamic syndicated loans declined 40 percent to $2.2
billion, compared with a 5 percent drop in total lending to $304
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Real-estate
prices have dropped 50 percent in the United Arab Emirates from
their peak in August 2008, according to estimates from Colliers
International.  
 “Banks have plenty of liquidity but they have been very
selective when it comes to where they would like to deploy it,”
 Faisal Hijazi , the business development manager of rating
services and Islamic finance in Dubai at Moody’s Investors
Service, said in a July 1 interview in Kuala Lumpur. “Real-
estate and investment companies seem to be the most seriously
challenged when it comes to refinancing.”  
 Middle East property developers have been forced to
renegotiate loans and bonds after they struggled to meet their
obligations, prompting ratings companies to downgrade credit
rankings and making borrowing more expensive. The last time
banks made fewer Islamic loans was in 2005, when the total was
$75 million.  
 The U.A.E’s state-owned Dubai World, Saudi Arabia-based
Saad Group and Investment Dar Co. in Kuwait announced plans in
the past year to restructure debt. Dubai Holding Commercial
Operations Group LLC, a real-estate and hospitality company, had
its rating cut to B2 on June 30 by Moody’s, five levels below
investment grade.  
 Asset Exchange  
 Islamic finance transactions are based on the exchange of
assets rather than interest to comply with the religion’s
Shariah principles. Created in the 1970s, the industry’s assets
may quadruple to $2.8 trillion by 2015 from about $700 billion
in 2005, according to the Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic Financial
Services Board, a standards-setting body.  
 Dubai Department of Finance’s sukuk bonds have dropped
since the debt was sold in October. The 6.396 percent note
maturing in November 2014 yielded 7.82 percent, 145 basis points
more than 6.37 percent at the time of issue, according to
Bloomberg bond trader composite prices. The rate reached a
record high of 10.29 percent on Feb. 15. The securities’ spread
over similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries narrowed 187 to 624 in the
same period.  
 Dubai Loans  
 The  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , made up of
Islamic bonds, or sukuk, from Indonesia to Saudi Arabia, gained
0.8 percent in the three months ended June 30. The  average yield 
on corporate and government Islamic bonds dropped seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.29 percent last quarter,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dollar Sukuk Index.   
 The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic notes due
June 2015 fell one basis point last week to 3.57 percent,
according to prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group.  
 Dubai companies may have to restructure loans due over the
next 12 to 18 months, Moody’s said in a report on June 14. Arab
companies in the Persian Gulf region have $28 billion of debt
maturing in 2012, Moody’s said.  
 Qatari Diar Real Estate Development Co., a unit of the Gulf
state’s sovereign wealth fund, was one of four Islamic loans in
Europe, Middle East and Africa so far this year, the data show.
It borrowed $300 million in April from banks led by HSBC
Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest lender by market value, Bloomberg
data show.  
 Malaysia Spending  
 In Asia, the Malaysian government’s plan to spend 230
billion ringgit ($71.4 billion) on development projects from
2011 to 2015 may boost demand for financing, according to rating
company RAM Holdings Bhd.  
 Bank loans in Malaysia more than doubled to $4.1 billion in
the first half, the highest in two years, after the country
climbed out of its first recession in a decade last year.
Malaysia’s economy is forecast by Prime Minister Najib Razak to
expand as much as 6 percent this year after shrinking 1.7
percent in 2009.  
 Maybank Islamic Bhd., a unit of Malaysia’s largest lender
Malayan Banking Bhd., expects to increase Islamic loans by 20
percent to 30 percent for the financial year ending June 2011,
Chief Executive Officer  Ibrahim Hassan  said in an e-mail to
Bloomberg on July 1.  
 Dubai World, whose unit Nakheel PJSC is building palm-
shaped islands off Dubai’s coast, reached an agreement with its
main creditor group in May to restructure $23.5 billion of
liabilities.  
 Credit Quality  
 Saad Trading, Contracting and Financial Services Co., a
unit of Saad Group owned by billionaire  Maan al-Sanea  and his
family, defaulted on a $650 million Islamic bond in November.
Investment Dar, the Kuwait-based owner of half of Aston Martin
Lagonda Ltd., was unable to meet obligations on its outstanding
$30 million debt in April last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The company and its creditors agreed to most
commercial aspects of restructuring liabilities, the creditors
committee said June 14. It had 1.03 billion dinars ($3.5 billion)
of debt outstanding at the end of September 2008.  
 “The quality of the creditors has deteriorated,” Hijazi
of Moody’s said during an Islamic capital market forum in Kuala
Lumpur. “So the uncertainty is still pretty much there.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Maybank Islamic Bhd. CEO Ibrahim Hassan  
                       
                         
                           Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Maybank Islamic Bhd. CEO Ibrahim Hassan speaks during a Conference, in Singapore. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Maybank Islamic Bhd. CEO Ibrahim Hassan speaks during a Conference, in Singapore. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
