-- Singh's Resolve to Rein in Spending Tested by All-India Strike Over Fuels
-- Bibhudatta Pradhan
-- 2010-07-05T13:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/singh-s-resolve-to-rein-in-spending-tested-by-all-india-strike-over-fuels.html

          
          
             Indian cities limped back to life
after a nationwide strike over fuel prices grounded flights,
shut offices and triggered sporadic violence, forcing the
government to defend cuts to subsidies that had protected the
poor.  
 The main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  and communist
parties, which independently called nationwide 12-hour stoppages
until 6 p.m., said the stoppage has been a success as truckers,
shopkeepers and government workers backed them to protest Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s June 25 decision to stop subsidizing
gasoline and diesel, a move to reduce spending that spurred the
budget deficit to a 16-year high.  
 “People have expressed their anger and strong opposition
to the anti-people policies of inflicting successive burdens on
the people through price hikes of petroleum products,” four
left parties, including the Communist  Party of India  (Marxist),
said in a statement. The strike paralyzed life in states run by
the BJP and two communist bastions.  
 Singh risked fanning the highest inflation rate in the
Group of 20 nations to cut the government’s $5.5 billion fuel
subsidy bill. While none of his coalition partners have backed
the walkout, allowing fuel prices to be market determined may
alienate the lawmakers from outside the ruling alliance he needs
to secure a parliamentary majority and pass laws.  
 ‘Minimalist’ Increase  
 In New Delhi, a spokesman for Singh’s Congress party,
 Abhishek Manu Singhvi , accused the BJP of “hypocrisy and double
standards,” saying it presided over larger increases in fuel
prices than the “minimalist” ones announced by Singh when the
party was in power from 1998 to 2004.  
 Today’s walkout showed “there is serious public
discontentment” over rising prices, said  Mahesh Rangarajan , a
New Delhi-based independent political analyst. “It’s a test of
government resolve to continue with next phase of reforms.” The
strike cost the country more than 30 billion rupees ($641
million), the  Confederation of Indian Industry  estimated.  
 Infosys Technologies Ltd.  and  Wipro Ltd ., India’s second-
and third-largest software exporters, closed their Bangalore
offices, company officials said, as workers may find it
difficult to travel. Eleven coal mines at Talcher in Orissa were
shut as protesters enforced the strike, said Amalesh Kumar, a
general manager at Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd., a unit of Coal
India Ltd.  
 Low Trading Volumes  
 In Mumbai, India’s business capital, drugmakers  Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd . and  Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd .
were among companies to tell office staff to stay at home,
spokesmen said. Stock market volumes were “very low,” said
 Nilesh Karani , head of business development at Magnum Equity
Broking Ltd., as clients extended their weekends.  
 Political parties had previously avoided loosening fuel
price controls to win support from India’s 828 million people
who live on less than $2 a day. The government aims to lower the
fiscal deficit to 5.5 percent of  gross domestic product  this
financial year from an estimated 6.9 percent last year.  
 “Every time the government decides to increase prices it
is the poor that get hurt the most,” said Sunil Singh, 28, who
sells cigarettes on a street in the southern city of Bangalore.
Among groups that supported today’s one-day stoppage is the All
India Motor Transport Congress, which represents 7,000 trucking
and logistics companies.  
 Trains Halted  
 In the capital, New Delhi, BJP leaders held a rally at the
famous Chandni Chowk market and metro trains were halted in some
places. Private airlines didn’t operate until 6 p.m. in the
eastern city of Kolkata, a communist stronghold. As many as 84
flights into and out of Mumbai’s airport were canceled, Press
Trust of India reported, without citing anyone. State-owned Air
India said in a statement its domestic flights, including from
Kolkata, were unaffected by the strike.  
 Singh’s Congress-led coalition, which retained power at
polls in April and May 2009, is seven seats short of a majority
in the lower house of  parliament , or the Lok Sabha, a position
that has been exposed in recent weeks as the government was
forced to backtrack on plans to reserve more seats for female
legislators and open the South Asian nation’s nuclear energy
industry to foreign equipment providers.  
 In April, Singh needed the backing of a regional
powerbroker from outside the coalition to win a key budget vote,
underlining how dependent his administration remains on smaller
parties to govern.  
 Higher fuel costs may add almost a percentage point to
India’s inflation rate,  Kaushik Basu , chief economic adviser in
the finance ministry, said. To cool prices, the Reserve Bank of
India raised interest rates on July 2, almost a month before the
central bank’s next scheduled meeting.  
 The benchmark wholesale-price index unexpectedly rose 10.16
percent in May. Consumer-price inflation for industrial workers
climbed nearly 14 percent the same month, compared with 3.1
percent in China.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh  
                       
                         
                           Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh speaks during the opening ceremony of the new Terminal 3 of Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh speaks during the opening ceremony of the new Terminal 3 of Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
