-- South Africa Again Unites Against Its Apartheid Past With Soccer World Cup
-- 
-- 2010-07-05T00:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/south-africans-again-unite-against-apartheid-past-with-soccer-world-cup.html

          
          
              
By Liz Clarke
     July 5 (Washington Post) -- LANSDOWNE, SOUTH AFRICA -- They
squirmed with pre-match jitters, huddled in a circle in their
spotless green uniforms as Coach David went over last-minute
instructions.
     "What is the most important thing when we get the ball?" the
coach asked, and a half-dozen eager hands shot up.
     "Position!" one blurted out.
     "Right," the coach smiled. "And we must do what?"
     "Spread out!" chimed another.
     "Yes."
     And so it went, until each boy seemed sure of his role,
every mouth was rid of bubble gum and everyone had been reminded
to stay on his feet and, when in doubt, look for a green jersey.
     With that, the Santos under-11's scampered onto the pitch on
a recent morning for their match against a blue-jerseyed bunch
from Johannesburg.
     Cape Town's Santos soccer team is nicknamed "The People's
Team" because of its founders' 28-year commitment to integrated,
inclusive sports.
     That belief is reflected in the Santos professional squad
that competes in South Africa's Premier Soccer League. It's
reflected in Santos' thriving youth league, which provides
instruction to 382 boys and girls ages 7-17, regardless of race,
here at the team's complex in the southeastern suburbs of Cape
Town. And it's reflected in the under-11's coached by former
Santos player David Notoane, 42, which consists of black, white
and Indian boys who seem to care only about the green on their
uniform.
     The very notion of a "People's Team" was a subversive idea
when Santos was founded in 1982, during South Africa's brutal
apartheid era, in the township of Heideveld on the barren expanse
known as the Cape Flats.
     But in recent weeks, parents have been streaming into the
Santos office daily to ask about enrolling their children in its
youth program.
     "Everybody wants to play soccer now -- boys and girls," says
Duncan Crowie, 47, a former Santos player, captain and coach who
serves as director of the youth program and coach of the
under-17's. "Why all of the sudden? I think it's because of the
World Cup."
     No one is turned away at Santos, unlike at many other soccer
academies in South Africa. There is a team for every child --
those with pro potential, as well as those with nominal ability.
     "Nobody gets told, 'Sorry, you're not good enough. Here's
the door,' " says Crowie, who grew up in Heideveld. "You will be
a Santos player if you choose to."
     And those who do what's expected -- obey the coaches and
keep up with their studies -- are afforded such luxuries as
first-rate instruction, handsome uniforms and soccer pitch, and a
gym (courtesy of corporate sponsor Engen) outfitted with
treadmills, free weights, punching bags and exercise bikes.
     Crowie never dreamt of such things when he played for Santos
during apartheid, when black players couldn't share a beer with
white friends and teammates after a match -- much less share the
same Cape Town beaches or live side by side.
     Although Santos was a pro team, its players held paying jobs
to support their families, so practice couldn't start until 6
p.m. And because the township's soccer pitch had no lights,
players had to set up portable flood lights plugged into long
extension cords that ran to the homes of generous neighbors who
lived nearby. Even then, they could only train on half the pitch
at a time because they didn't have enough lights to illuminate
the full field.
     Asked if he felt bitter about what might have been in a
career that was denied so many opportunities, Crowie said: "Many
people have asked me, 'Do you want to turn back the clock?' and
so on. Yes and no. I'd like to think I've played my part in
getting South Africa together, in a small way, through soccer."
     That narrative, writ large and small, is the subject of an
exhibition called "Fields of Play: Football, Memories and Forced
Removals in Cape Town" that coincides with the 2010 World Cup and
gives greater meaning to the grounds on which Tuesday's semifinal
between the Netherlands and Uruguay will be contested.
     The exhibition recounts the introduction of soccer to Cape
Town in the 1860s and the rise of segregated leagues for
"African," "colored," "Indian," and "white" players that competed
on the verdant patch of land known as Green Point Common, site of
Cape Town's $330 million World Cup stadium. And it charts the
series of discriminatory laws that denied access to those grounds
for all but white teams and ultimately led to the forced removal
of Cape Town's black population to the desolate Cape Flats.
     The exodus to the townships destroyed some storied soccer
clubs and give birth to others, such as Santos. And as the
injustice of apartheid grew, soccer evolved from a mere pastime
to a vehicle for political protest.
     Its most forceful mouthpiece was the South African Council
on Sports, formed in 1973, to fight racially segregated sports
and lobby against South Africa's participation in international
competitions such as the Olympics and World Cup until apartheid
was abolished.
     Today, there's no evidence that youngsters at the Santos
academy are aware of, or burdened by, this aspect of their
country's past.
     "There are no racial boundaries," said Martin Dunn, 43, who
looked on from the sideline as his son Kienan, 10, a midfielder
on the under-11 team, prepared to take the pitch. "I love the
fact that our son can come down here to play. Some kids here are
from the townships; other kids here live in multimillion-dollar
mansions. They don't see that. When these kids play, they are
totally equal. And they'll be friends for life."
 
          
          


  


        