-- South Africa Antitrust Body Starts Probe Into ArcelorMittal Unit Surcharge
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-07-05T14:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/south-africa-antitrust-body-starts-probe-into-arcelormittal-unit-surcharge.html

          
          
             South Africa’s Competition Commission
started a “preliminary” investigation into a decision by
 ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. , a unit of the world’s largest
steelmaker, to impose a surcharge on steel products.  
 The commission received a letter from the Department of
Trade and Industry asking it to look at whether the move was
anticompetitive, spokeswoman  Molebogeng Taunyane  said by phone
from Pretoria today. The probe may lead to an official
investigation depending on the findings, said Taunyane, who
declined to say how soon a decision would be made.  
 ArcelorMittal South Africa introduced the charge from the
start of May after  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. , which supplies two-
thirds of its ore needs, canceled a nine-year old supply pact.  
 “We do not believe the implementation of the surcharge is
contravening the South African Competitions Act,” ArcelorMittal
South Africa spokesman  Themba Hlengani  said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  
 South Africa said on March 30 it would refer ArcelorMittal
South Africa to antitrust authorities for “abuse of dominance
and excessive pricing.” Trade and Industry Minister  Rob Davies 
wants the “most vigorous remedies” imposed on the steelmaker
if it’s found guilty,  Business Day  reported on May 19.  
 ArcelorMittal South Africa, based at Vanderbijlpark in the
country’s Gauteng province, introduced the charge based on the
spot price of iron ore, a steelmaking ingredient.  
 The steelmaker is in dispute with Kumba over a supply
agreement under which it bought iron ore at 3 percent above
production costs. The contract was agreed in 2001 as part of the
split of Iscor Ltd. into separate steel and mining companies.
While at the time the pact was deemed necessary for the
steelmaker’s survival, it now limits Kumba’s ability to benefit
from higher ore prices.  
 The dispute is in arbitration and could take as long as 18
months to resolve,  Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita , chief executive
officer of Africa’s largest steelmaker, said on April 29. Kumba
is 63 percent-owned by  Anglo American Plc .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        