-- South African Bankers, Executives Pick World Cup Bars, Eateries
-- Renee Bonorchis
-- 2010-07-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/south-african-bankers-executives-pick-world-cup-bars-eateries.html

          
          
             Thick rump steaks, pizzas dripping
with mozzarella, blood-red ostrich carpaccio and ice-cold beers
are on the menu for executives watching the World Cup.  
 We asked the heads of some of South Africa’s biggest
 companies  their favorite spots to see the semifinals and the
closing match on July 11.  
 Here’s what they had to say:  
 The Butcher Shop and Grill in Nelson Mandela Square in
Sandton,  Johannesburg  is a steak house where  Norman Adami , 55,
the managing director of  SABMiller Plc’s  South African unit,
says he can relax and watch a game. With a meat counter laden
with cuts of lamb, pork and beef, it’s a top choice for
carnivores. It’s also known for its wine cellar, although that’s
not what Adami has in mind. He says he’ll be “enjoying a cold
Castle,” a beer that his company, the world’s second-largest
brewer, sells in more than 40 countries.  
 Michael Jordaan , 42, chief executive officer of First
National Bank, the retail unit of South Africa’s second-largest
lender,  FirstRand Ltd. , prefers the more hearty  Jolly Roger . A
pub favored by students and male executives who wish they were
still students, it has Belgian beers such as  Hoegaarden  on tap
and juicy pizzas on the menu. Noise levels are high and seats
are hard to find during matches. Jordaan says it’s a combination
of the food, the draught beer and the “unassuming crowd” that
draws him to this hangout in Johannesburg’s Parkhurst suburb.  
 For  Mike Brown , head of  Nedbank Ltd.,  the lender controlled
by  Old Mutual Plc , the choice is the  Dainfern Country Club . It
bills itself as a secure residential golf estate with more than
1,200 homes built around a course designed by  Gary Player . Large
 houses  with up to six bedrooms sell for as much as 11 million
rand ($1.4 million). In this not-so-small executive haven, four
kilometers north of Fourways, Johannesburg, Brown says it’s his
choice because he’s “amongst family and friends and close to
home.”  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc  and  JSE Ltd.  both have fans of the
 Melrose Arch Precinct . Built to emulate a British High Street,
with squares surrounded by restaurants and exclusive shops,
Melrose Arch has erected two large screens.  Colin Coleman , head
of Goldman Sachs in South Africa, favors Tasha’s, with its
“great atmosphere.” Tasha’s outdoor seating and its oyster-
and-Champagne bar make for a chilled place to watch heated
games.  
 Melrose Arch, in the costly suburb of Melrose,
 Johannesburg , “has an unbelievable vibe about it, with lots of
tourists, lots of accents,” according to  Noah Greenhill , a
senior general manager at the country’s stock exchange.  
 Old Mutual’s country head, Kuseni Dlamini, opts for
Oliver’s in  White River , Mpumalanga, a 3-1/2 hour drive north
east of Johannesburg. Close to the  Kruger Park , it’s an English
country house known for its food. With a menu that changes
regularly, guests -- paying more than 2,000 rand a night for a
room -- may feast on dishes such as smoked ostrich carpaccio,
grilled French scallops or kudu fillet medallions. Oliver’s
might appear too refined for soccer, but the insurance-company
executive says there’s an “excellent vibe”.  
 Herman Bosman , head of  Deutsche Bank AG  in South Africa,
throws out a few names in Johannesburg, among them  Giles  in
Craighall Park and Radium Beerhall, the city’s oldest bar, which
is found in the mostly downmarket suburb of Orange Grove. Giles,
selling pub fare with a local twist, boasts friendly locals,
says Bosman, while the Radium offers “proper Portuguese food,
interesting people, great music, and a limited chance of bumping
into serious people.” That makes watching a soccer match all
the more enjoyable, he says.  
 Then there’s the most-mentioned venue of all: Home. From
 Citigroup Inc’s  country manager,  Donna Oosthuyse , to private
equity company  Brait SA  Chief Executive Officer  Antony Ball , 52,
to  Nicky Newton-King , deputy head of Johannesburg’s stock
exchange, and  Sim Tshabalala , deputy CEO at  Standard Bank Group
Ltd. , watching soccer from a couch in their own lounge is best.  
 “The food is great, the company exceptional and the
environment warm, if relatively quiet,” Newton-King said.  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A big screen and stage at Melrose Arch in Johannesburg. Noah Greenhill from JSE Ltd. is one of the executives in South Africa who chose Melrose Arch as a good place to watch soccer, which ends on July 11. Photo: Renee Bonorchis/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 5 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Rachel Brookes reports on a boom in the manufacture of makarapas, the headgear worn by football fans in South Africa, as the World Cup tournament reaches the semifinal stage. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Patrons at Melrose Arch in Johannesburg. Local establishments erected two big screens during the soccer World Cup. People wearing their national colors and speaking a multitude of languages gathered, even on icy cold nights, to watch. Photo: Renee Bonorchis/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Jolly Roger pub in Parkhurst, Johannesburg. The pub has beers on tap, pizzas on order, and big screens, making it a top place to watch soccer until the World Cup ends on July 11. Photo: Renee Bonorchis/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Butcher Shop & Grill  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         The exterior of the Butcher Shop & Grill in Sandton, Johannesburg. The establishment has an extensive wine cellar selected by its proprietor, Alan Pick, one of the top wine buyers in South Africa. Photo: Renee Bonorchis/Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The exterior of the Butcher Shop & Grill in Sandton, Johannesburg. The establishment has an extensive wine cellar selected by its proprietor, Alan Pick, one of the top wine buyers in South Africa. Photo: Renee Bonorchis/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The meat counter at The Butcher Shop & Grill in Sandton, Johannesburg. It is a top choice for SABMiller Plc's Norman Adami who likes to drink beer and watch sports. The soccer World Cup ends on July 11. Photo: Renee Bonorchis/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The meat counter at The Butcher Shop & Grill in Sandton, Johannesburg. The establishment offers South African fare like biltong and boerewor alongside well-aged rump and fillet steak. Patrons can choose their own slabs of meat from the counter, or have them packaged to take home. Photo: Renee Bonorchis/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Tasha's  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         Tasha's at Melrose Arch in Johannesburg. Organizers erected two big screens during the soccer World Cup, so patrons at Tasha's can sit out in the sun, slurping oysters and sipping champagne while watching the soccer, which ends on July 11. Photo: Renee Bonorchis/Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Tasha's at Melrose Arch in Johannesburg. Organizers erected two big screens during the soccer World Cup, so patrons at Tasha's can sit out in the sun, slurping oysters and sipping champagne while watching the soccer, which ends on July 11. Photo: Renee Bonorchis/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
