-- Spanish Savings Banks May Be Concealing Mortgage Losses, CreditSights Says
-- John Glover
-- 2010-07-05T11:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/spanish-savings-banks-may-be-hiding-home-loan-losses-creditsights-says.html

          
          
             Spanish savings banks may be hiding
losses on home loans by taking non-performing  mortgages  out of
securitized transactions, according to CreditSights Inc.  
 By carrying the bad loans on their own books the so-called
cajas sidestep downgrades to their mortgage-backed securities,
the independent bond research firm said in a report. The
regional lenders helped fuel the nation’s  real-estate bubble ,
which burst after the collapse of the U.S. subprime market.  
 CreditSights follows a sample of 143 Spanish residential
mortgage-backed securities collateralized by 136 billion euros
($170 billion) of loans, with about 45 percent originated by
cajas. While the savings banks give little information about the
state of their loan books, investor reports on the performance
of the securitized debt suggest asset quality is weaker than at
commercial lenders, CreditSights said.  
 “Caja-originated mortgages are performing much worse than
those extended by Spain’s commercial banks,” analysts  David Watts ,  John Raymond  and  Hana Galetova  wrote. By buying mortgages
out of the pools “they could have been artificially reducing
the level of bad loans in RMBS while simultaneously undermining
the quality of the cajas’ own assets,” they wrote.  
 A comparison of loans originated by commercial banks and
cajas shows that delinquencies in the savings banks’ mortgages
have been higher than those of the commercial banks for at least
four years, the report said. Falling incomes caused by
government austerity packages “would no doubt precipitate
further rises in delinquencies,” CreditSights said.  
 For the cajas, the proportion of mortgages more than 90
days delinquent or repossessed peaked at 4.2 percent in the
third quarter of last year and is now 3.7 percent. The rate of
serious delinquencies for commercial banks was 2.3 percent in
the third quarter and has now “leveled off” at 2.6 percent,
according to CreditSights.  
 “By buying the loans out of the mortgage pool, the cajas
would be taking those weaker loans onto their own books,”
according to CreditSights. “The current 3.7 percent serious
delinquency rate may flatter the performance of the cajas
mortgage books and underestimate their potential losses.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        