-- Swiss Stocks Slide for Fifth Day; Syngenta, Roche Lead Drop on Downgrades
-- Alexis Xydias
-- 2010-07-05T16:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/swiss-stocks-slide-for-fifth-day-syngenta-roche-lead-drop-on-downgrades.html

          
          
             Swiss stocks  declined for a fifth
day, the longest losing streak in two months. Syngenta AG and
Roche Holding AG led the retreat after analysts advised selling
the shares.  
 Syngenta , the world’s biggest maker of agricultural
chemicals, and Roche, the largest maker of tumor-fighting
medicines, dropped more than 1 percent. Transocean Ltd., the
Geneva-based company that leased the Deepwater Horizon oil rig
in the Gulf of Mexico to BP Plc, fell 3.6 percent.  Swisscom AG 
advanced after Credit Suisse Group AG advised investors to buy
shares in the phone company.  
 The  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies dropped 0.5 percent to 5,942.25, the lowest
level since August 2099. The broader  Swiss Performance Index 
also retreated 0.5 percent.  
 The SMI has declined 15 percent from this year’s high on
 April 15  as investors dump the riskiest assets on concern a
sovereign-debt crisis in Europe is expanding, speculation the
Chinese authorities are cooling growth, and after U.S. economic
data disappointed.  
 “The problem with risk aversion is that it can have a
negative feedback on the economy,” Deutsche Bank AG  Gareth Evans  wrote in a report dated July 2. “Couple that with cuts in
government spending, a deterioration in financial conditions,
and a topping out of global lead indicators, we could easily see
another downgrade cycle emerge.”  
 Syngenta Downgrade  
 Syngenta  lost 1.7 percent to 232.3 Swiss francs, its fifth
straight retreat. The stock was cut to “underperform” by
analysts at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux, which cited price
pressure in herbicides and fungicides and said a management
target to boost per-share profit this year is now
“challenging.”  
 Roche  fell 1.2 percent to 145.1 francs. The stock was cut
to “sell” from “hold” at Collins Stewart, which said sales
will be hurt in coming years by generic versions of the
company’s biological medicines.  
 Growth also is slowing for Roche’s cancer drugs,  Emmanuel Papadakis , an analyst for the firm, wrote in a report to
investors today.  
 Transocean declined 3.6 percent to 49.77 francs. Waves as
high as six feet (1.8 meters) may persist for most of this week
off the Louisiana coast, forcing BP to postpone its already
delayed efforts to double the amount of oil it is capturing from
its leaking Gulf of Mexico well.  
 Swisscom  gained 1.8 percent to 373 francs. Switzerland’s
largest phone company was upgraded to “outperform” at Credit
Suisse, which said earnings momentum in Europe’s telephone
industry is “turning more positive” and the stocks remain
underrepresented in investors’ holdings.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        