-- Swiss Market Index Fluctuates Near 10-Month Low; Richemont Shares Advance
-- Alexis Xydias
-- 2010-07-05T12:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/swiss-market-index-fluctuates-near-10-month-low-richemont-shares-advance.html

          
          
             Swiss stocks  drifted between gains
and losses near a 10-month low.  Swisscom AG  advanced after
Credit Suisse Group AG advised investors to buy shares in the
phone company.  
 Transocean Ltd., the Geneva-based company that leased the
Deepwater Horizon oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico to BP Plc, and
Syngenta AG, the world’s biggest maker of agricultural
chemicals, declined.  
 The  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies dropped 0.2 percent to 5,964.28 as of 2 p.m. in
Zurich, after closing last week at the lowest level since Aug.
18. The gauge fluctuated between a gain and a loss of as much as
0.3 percent. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  also retreated
0.2 percent.  
 The SMI has declined 14 percent from this year’s high on
 April 15  on concern a sovereign-debt crisis in Europe is
expanding, speculation the Chinese authorities are cooling
growth, and after U.S. economic data disappointed. UBS AG
strategists said today investors should not lower allocation to
equities as the economy won’t dip into another recession.  
 “While consensus earnings estimates for 2010 are likely to
be revised lower, we believe it is premature to declare a
‘double dip’ in global economic activity,”  Larry Hatheway ,
London-based economist and asset-allocation strategist at UBS,
wrote in a report. “Markets are likely to remain volatile given
heightened uncertainty, but underlying earnings growth is likely
to exceed investor expectations.”  
 Richemont Gains  
 Swisscom  gained 2 percent to 373.7 Swiss francs.
Switzerland’s largest phone company was upgraded to
“outperform” at Credit Suisse, which said earnings momentum in
Europe’s telephone industry is “turning more positive” and the
stocks remain underrepresented in investors’ holdings.  
 Cie. Financiere Richemont SA , the world’s biggest jewelry
maker, rose 0.6 percent to 37.16 francs. The shares were raised
to “buy” from “neutral” at BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research, which said they may reach 44 francs because of cheap
valuation, potential for profit margin improvement, and
appealing geographic sales.  
 Swatch Group AG , Switzerland’s biggest watchmaker, added
1.1 percent to 299.3 francs.  
 Transocean declined 2.2 percent to 50.45 francs. Waves as
high as six feet (1.8 meters) may persist for most of this week
off the Louisiana coast, forcing BP to postpone its already
delayed efforts to double the amount of oil it is capturing from
its leaking Gulf of Mexico well.  
 Syngenta  lost 1.5 percent to 232.7 francs, the shares’
fifth retreat. The stock was cut to “underperform” by analysts
at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        