-- Swiss Franc Strengthens Versus Euro on Speculation Central Bank May Wait
-- Lukanyo Mnyanda
-- 2010-07-05T16:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/swiss-franc-strengthens-versus-euro-on-speculation-central-bank-may-wait.html

          
          
             The Swiss franc rose against the euro
on speculation the Swiss National Bank may hold back on efforts
to lower its value, even after its President  Philipp Hildebrand 
said policy makers are “closely monitoring” the currency.  
 Hildebrand said the franc’s fluctuation has “clearly
increased,” according to Blick am Sonntag. He responded to a
question as to whether the central bank would resume selling the
franc, according to the newspaper.  
 The SNB “never said that they’d stop intervening
altogether,” said  Fabian Heller , an economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Zurich. “It’s hard to say at what level they’d
intervene but at 1.33 it’s probably not the case, even from
their point of view.”  
 The franc appreciated 0.1 percent to 1.3345 per euro as of
5:52 p.m. in Zurich. It reached a record 1.3074 on July 1.  
 Renewed franc sales are likely to occur only if the
currency reaches a level that’s not “fundamentally justified,”
Heller said. The risk of deflation is no longer the central
bank’s main concern, he said.  
 The Zurich-based SNB started selling the franc in March
2009 to ward off deflation and revive the economy amid the worst
global financial crisis since World War II.  
 Pressure on the currency to appreciate increased as the
Swiss economy emerged from a recession and investors sought the
franc as a haven after the euro tumbled on concern that
countries from Greece to Portugal would default on their debt.
The euro has lost 10 percent against the franc so far this year.  
 Short-Lived  
 The euro’s rebound from its record low against the franc
may be short-lived amid demand from central banks around the
world for the Swiss currency and Switzerland’s relatively
stronger fiscal outlook, according to UBS AG.  
 The euro is a “medium-term sell on rallies” as the risk
of the SNB intervening to weaken its currency have receded,
wrote  Mansoor Mohi-uddin , the global head of currency strategy
at UBS AG in Singapore.  
 “Switzerland’s economy continues to outperform the euro
zone, central banks are showing more interest in the franc as a
reserve currency, and the government’s fiscal position remains
enviable,” Mohi-uddin said in an e-mailed note. “We see the
risks being to the downside to that forecast even after the jump
from around 1.30 over the last few days.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Verschuur  in Zurich at 
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        