-- Clegg Plans May 5 Referendum on New Voting System; Risks Rift in Coalition
-- Thomas Penny
-- 2010-07-05T16:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/u-k-to-vote-on-changing-electoral-system-may-5-risking-government-rift.html

          
          
             Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said
a referendum will be held on May 5 on changing the U.K.’s voting
system, risking divisions in the governing Conservative-Liberal
Democrat coalition.  
 Clegg said the referendum on whether to adopt a system
known as the alternative vote in place of the current first-
past-the-post will be held on the same date as local elections
and those for the Scottish Parliament and Welsh Assembly. The
government also plans to reduce the number of lawmakers in the
House of Commons in London to 600 from 650, Clegg said.  
 “All parties fought the general election on an absolute
pledge to move fast to fix our political system, so we must get
on and do that without delay,” Clegg told lawmakers in
 Parliament  today. “In the event of a vote in favor of AV, the
2015 general election will be held on the new system.”  
 Clegg’s Liberal Democrat Party has long supported changing
the current voting system, where smaller parties struggle to get
enough votes in any one place to win a seat. The AV system
allows voters to rank candidates in order, with the second
preferences of lower-scoring candidates redistributed until
someone has the support of 50 percent of electors. The
Conservatives under Prime Minister  David Cameron  fought the last
election opposing any change to the voting system.  
 ‘Other Things to Do’  
 Cameron will order his party’s lawmakers to vote in favor
of the referendum, while leaving them free to campaign for a
“no” vote in the poll itself.  
 The prime minister’s spokesman,  Steve Field , said Cameron
wouldn’t take a large role in the campaign against AV. “He’s
the prime minister; he’s got other things to do,” Field told
reporters after Clegg’s statement. Asked what role other
Conservative Cabinet members would play, he said: “I would
imagine they would approach it in the same way.”  
 The vote also poses risks for Clegg. The May 5 date may
work in his favor, as the other elections that day may bolster
turnout.  
 It also gives the Liberal Democrat leader a chance to
campaign against the Conservatives, allowing him to assert his
party’s independence and demonstrate to supporters that the
Liberal Democrats have not become merely an appendage to
Cameron’s government.  
 ‘Risks Are Profound’  
 By contrast, if Clegg doesn’t secure a “yes” vote next
year, his authority may be undermined and Liberal Democrat
supporters may question whether they should continue to support
a coalition that hasn’t taken any steps toward changing the
electoral system, something for which Liberal Democrats have
campaigned for decades.  
 “The coalition was born out of its personalities and
circumstances, not principles and values, and this vote
highlights that,” said  Mark Wickham-Jones , a professor of
politics at Bristol University. “The risks that both Cameron
and Clegg face are profound.”  
 While Labour proposed the idea of AV before the May 6
general election, some of the party’s lawmakers now oppose a
referendum because the Conservatives also plan to make all
electoral districts the same size -- a measure that will
probably reduce the number of Labour representatives.  
 “Labour could take an extremely unprincipled but practical
view from opposition,” Wickham-Jones said. “And use this issue
to rock the coalition.”  
 Bundle  
 The AV referendum and the equalization of district sizes
will be bundled together in a bill to be presented to Parliament
this month. A second bill, also scheduled to be published this
month, will make it more difficult for prime ministers to call
elections when they choose, instead putting them on a five-year
timetable. The new law would still allow elections earlier on a
two-thirds majority in Parliament or if no one can form a
government within 14 days of a vote of no confidence.  
 Field said constitutional experts will devise rules for how
ministers and officials should behave during such a 14-day
period. Earlier this year,  Gus O’Donnell , who as Cabinet
secretary is head of the civil service, ordered new rules to be
drawn up to protect the Queen’s constitutional position during
coalition negotiations. These rules enabled  Gordon Brown  to stay
on as prime minister for five days after losing the May 6 vote.  
 “It’s simply not right that general elections can be called
according to a prime minister’s whim,” Clegg told lawmakers. He
also announced plans to allow voters to “recall” their
lawmaker if he or she is found guilty of wrongdoing, and
increase transparency in lobbying.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        