-- U.K. Pound Falls, Gilts Rise on Outlook for Government Austerity Measures
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-07-05T16:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/u-k-gilts-advance-as-details-of-budget-reduction-plans-stoke-optimism.html

          
          
             U.K. government bonds rose and the
pound fell on speculation that Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
plans to cut spending will constrain both the budget deficit and
economic growth.  
 Gilts’ gains sent the 10-year  yield  to near its lowest in
more than 14 months. The Treasury ordered ministers to draw up
scenarios for cuts of 25 percent and 40 percent over four years,
Transport Secretary  Philip Hammond  said on BBC 1 television’s
“Andrew Marr Show” yesterday. U.K.  services growth  slowed more
than economists forecast last month after the government’s
austerity measures to cut the budget deficit sapped confidence.  
 “The budget consolidation in the U.K. is going to have
significant consequences for growth,” said  Steve Barrow , head
of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange research at Standard Bank Plc in
London. “In sterling terms there could be a cost, while it
plays into the hands of gilts to some extent.”  
 The 10-year gilt yield fell three basis points to 3.32
percent as of 5:05 p.m. in London after reaching 3.31 percent on
July 1, the lowest since April 2009. The 4.75 percent security
maturing March 2020 rose 0.27, or 2.70 pounds per 1,000-pound
($1,511) face amount, to 111.74. The two-year note yield slipped
four basis points to 0.74 percent.  
 The pound was 0.6 percent lower at $1.5107, declining
against the U.S. currency for the first day in three. It was 0.3
percent weaker at 82.94 pence per euro.  
 Gilt Returns  
 U.K. government bonds have returned 3.3 percent since the
May 6 election, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts’ Societies, as
Cameron’s coalition focused on managing the nation’s deficit in
the wake of the Greek debt crisis.  Robert Stheeman , the head of
Britain’s debt-management agency, said last week that U.K.
securities may benefit from being outside the euro area, as well
as from the government’s cutbacks.  
 German bonds returned 2.1 percent and U.S. Treasuries also
handed investors a 2.1 percent profit since May 6, according to
the indexes.  
 U.K. Chief Secretary to the Treasury  Danny Alexander  said
today that government departments agreed to cut spending by a
further 1.54 billion pounds. The reductions are in expenditure
planned by the previous administration that were reliant on
underspending.  
 “The virtues of managing an independent currency, and a
blueprint for a return to sound fiscal policy and reduced gilt
issuance have obviously helped gilts to outperform some of the
less illustrious European Union members,”  Kenneth Broux , an
economist at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in London, said in an e-
mailed note.  
 Britain is scheduled to sell 3.25 billion pounds of bonds
due in 2020 tomorrow.  
 Short-Sterling Futures  
 Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing
and Supply said its gauge of service companies fell to 54.4 from
55.4 in May. Economists had forecast a reading of 55, according
to the median of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  
 The yield on the March 2011 short-sterling futures contract
fell three basis points to 1.01 percent as investors added to
bets interest rates will stay lower for longer.  
 The U.K. Treasury said today it appointed  Martin Weale  to
serve on the Bank of England’s nine-member interest rate-setting
Monetary Policy Committee. The appointment will take effect in
time for Weale to take part in August’s rate decision, it said.  
 Weale “will be more likely to surprise” than Barker, said
 David Kern , chief economist at the British Chambers of Commerce
in London. “It’s very difficult to classify him as a dove or a
hawk.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        