-- China Jails U.S. Geologist for Eight Years for Selling State Oil Secrets
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-06T10:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/u-s-says-dismayed-by-china-sentencing-of-xue-to-eight-years-in-prison.html

          
          
             A U.S. geologist was sentenced to
eight years in prison by a Chinese court after being convicted
of violating the state secrets law by selling a database on the
country’s oil industry.  
 The U.S. said it was “dismayed” by the sentence given to
 Xue Feng  and remains concerned about his rights to due process
under Chinese law. Xue was also fined 200,000 yuan ($29,550)
yesterday by a Beijing court at a hearing that was attended by
U.S. Ambassador to China  Jon Huntsman , Richard Buangan, a
spokesman for the U.S. Embassy said.  
 The case highlights China’s use of the law to protect
economic information, three months after the jailing of four Rio
Tinto Group executives strained relations with Australia. Groups
including the U.S.-China Business Council have criticized
China’s definition of state secrets as too broad and say lack of
transparency is hurting the confidence of foreign investors.  
 “These cases definitely make international companies
worried,” said  Nicolas Groffman , a Beijing-based partner at
Australian law firm Mallesons Stephen Jaques.  
 China rejected criticism over the sentencing and said the
process was fair.  
 “Will they say China’s legal system is open and
transparent if we release him without any charges?” Qin Gang, a
spokesman at the foreign ministry, asked at a press conference
today. “I can guarantee that during the trial, all the
defendant’s legal rights were guaranteed.  
 Legal Changes  
 China in April passed legal changes aimed at making people,
companies and organizations more responsible for protecting
state secrets, according to amendments approved by legislators
at the time.  
 State secrets include information that may damage the
nation in fields ranging from defense and diplomacy to
“national, economic and development projects” and technology.
The government also has the power to label anything else a state
secret, according to the amendments passed in April.  
 Three Chinese nationals were sentenced with Xue yesterday.
Li Yongbo, a manager at Beijing Licheng Zhongyou Oil Technology
Development Co., was sentenced to eight years and fined 200,000
yuan, AP reported, citing Xue’s lawyer Tong Wei. Chen Mengjin
and Li Dongxu, who worked at a research institute affiliated
with PetroChina Co., were each given 2 1/2 year sentences and
fined 50,000 yuan, according to AP.  
 Rio Tinto Charges  
 Former Rio Tinto executive Hu, an Australian citizen, was
detained in July 2009 with three colleagues. They were initially
accused of stealing state secrets, with the accusations later
reduced to bribery and infringing commercial secrets.  
 “These kinds of cases have been linked to international
politics as a weapon of retaliation in the Chinese government’s
arsenal,”  Hank Wang , a Beijing-based lawyer at  Garvey Schubert
Barer  and co-chairman of the legal committee at the American
Chamber of Commerce in the People’s Republic of China, said in
an e-mail. “As the U.S. and China have reopened talks on human
rights issues, this should be included in the agenda.”  
 China “missed an opportunity” to be transparent and give
companies more confidence when the government decided to hold
Hu’s and his colleagues’ hearings in secret, then Australian
Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  said in March.  
 ‘Irresponsible Remarks’  
 Qin had rejected Rudd’s criticism at the time and said
Australia should respect the result of the process and “stop
such irresponsible remarks.”  
 The database that Xue arranged to sell contained detailed
information on the state of the Chinese oil industry, AP
reported. China’s three biggest oil companies are all state-
owned.  
 China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy, has been
dipping into $2.4 trillion of foreign currency reserves to buy
stakes in oil and natural-gas fields and has spent at least $21
billion on overseas resources in the past year. China
Petrochemical Corp. bought a stake in a Canadian oil sands
project for $4.65 billion in April.  
 Since his detention, Xue has appeared three times in court
before yesterday’s hearing, AP reported. The court also
repeatedly postponed sentencing, according to the report.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories about China’s legal system: TNI CHINA LAW BN <GO>
Most-read stories about China: MNI CHINA <GO>
China economic statistics: ECST CH <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. ambassador to China Jon Huntsman. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
