-- U.S. Day Ahead: Services Probably Expanded at a Slower Pace During June
-- James Kraus
-- 2010-07-05T07:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/u-s-day-ahead-services-probably-expanded-at-a-slower-pace-during-june.html

          
          
             The following are among the top U.S.
stories today.  
 TOP STORIES;MOST READ ON BLOOMBERG  
 Services Probably Expanded at Slower Pace: U.S. Economy Preview  
 Service industries in the U.S. expanded at a slower pace in
June, indicating the economy started to cool entering the second
half, economists said before reports this week.  
 Noble to Buy Drilling Company FDR for $2.16 Billion (Update5)  
 Noble Corp., the world’s second- largest offshore oil
driller based on fleet size, agreed to buy FDR Holdings Ltd.
from a private equity fund managed by the Carlyle Group and
Riverstone Holdings LLC, valuing the drilling company at $2.16
billion.  
 Six-Foot Waves May Stall New BP Oil-Collection Effort This Week  
 Waves as high as six feet (1.8 meters) may persist for most
of this week off the Louisiana coast, forcing BP Plc to postpone
already-delayed efforts to double the amount of oil being
captured from a leaking Gulf of Mexico well.  
 ‘Twilight’ Is Top Movie With Sales of $162 Million in Five Days  
 “The Twilight Saga: Eclipse” knocked off “Toy Story 3” as
the top film in U.S. and Canada this weekend, earning $69
million for Summit Entertainment LLC.  
 MAIN COMPANIES  
 Aeropostale, Brown & Brown, Petrobras: U.S. Equity Preview  
 Shares of the following companies may have unusual moves in
U.S. trading on July 6. Stock symbols are in parentheses.  
 MAIN ANALYST UPGRADES/DOWNGRADES  
 AHEAD IN U.S. MARKETS:  
 Most Asian Stocks Advance on Australia Takeovers, Weaker Yen  
 Most Asian stocks rose, following the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index’s biggest weekly drop in more than a month, amid takeover
news in Australia and as a weaker yen boosted the outlook for
Japan’s exporters. Chinese banks dropped.  
 Roubini Sees German, U.S Debt as Havens in Face of ‘Fragility’  
 Nouriel Roubini, the New York University economist credited
with predicting the financial crisis, said that government bonds
of countries such as Germany, Canada and the U.S. will represent
a haven from increasingly volatile markets in coming months.  
 Crude Oil Rises as 5-Day Decline Makes Commodity Cheap to Buy  
 Crude oil rose for the first time in six days in New York
as investors bet its biggest weekly drop since May 7 made the
commodity cheap given the outlook for global growth.  
 Gold May Resume Climb on Concern Global Recovery Is in Jeopardy  
 Gold may advance after two weeks of declines as renewed
concern that the global economy is faltering helps to boost
demand for the metal as a store of value.  
 Euro Falls From Six-Week High Versus Dollar on Outlook for ECB  
 The euro declined from near its strongest level in six
weeks against the dollar on speculation the region’s central
bank will keep interest rates at a record low amid signs the
global recovery is slowing.  
 For Related News and Information:
To graph the performance of the Dow Jones Industrial Average
INDU <Index> GP D <GO>.
To graph crude oil futures over the past year
CL1 <Cmdty> GPO D <GO>.
For U.S. earnings news: TNI ERN US <GO>
Top Stories: TOPW <GO> for top stories.  
          
          


  


        