-- UBS's Zeltner Expects `More Headwinds' Before Reversing Client Withdrawals
-- Elena Logutenkova
-- 2010-07-05T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/ubs-s-zeltner-expects-more-headwinds-before-reversing-client-withdrawals.html

          
          
             UBS AG  is facing “more headwinds”
as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis alarms clients and threatens
the biggest Swiss bank’s goal of reversing withdrawals this
year, said wealth management head  Juerg Zeltner .  
 “They want to stay away from equity markets, they even
don’t trust the bond markets anymore,” Zeltner said in a July 2
interview at the bank’s headquarters in Zurich. “That does have
an impact on the speed, though not on the trend” of outflows,
he said.  
 UBS said in May it aims to attract net new funds by the end
of this year as redemptions slowed in the first quarter from the
previous three months. Clients pulled 205.6 billion Swiss francs
($193 billion) from the wealth management and Swiss bank unit in
the two years through March after a government bailout and the
second-biggest writedowns and losses reported by European banks.  
 The “difficult” economic environment means UBS’s target
of returning European onshore business to profit this year may
take longer to achieve than originally planned, according to
Zeltner.  
 “In the next six to 12 months, I feel comfortable that
we’ll be there,” he said.  
 While the bank has attracted funds from rich customers over
the past couple of quarters, that hasn’t countered money leaving
UBS as a result of pressure on Swiss banking secrecy and
departing client advisers, Zeltner said. Clients of his unit,
which had 827 billion francs under management at the end of
March, typically have $1 million or more to invest.  
 Zeltner, who co-heads the wealth management and Swiss bank
unit with  Lukas Gaehwiler , declined to comment on second-quarter
developments.  
 Halting Outflows  
 “We will stop the outflows,” said Zeltner, who has headed
the wealth management business outside of the Americas since
February 2009. “I’m not so much tied up with a quarter earlier
or a quarter later.”  
 Two consecutive quarters of  profit  are helping to attract
funds, though damage to the UBS brand means that “good
figures” aren’t enough, Zeltner said. The bank is “relieved”
the  U.S. cross-border case , in which UBS was accused of helping
clients evade taxes, is drawing to a close, he said.  
 The Swiss parliament last month approved the agreement with
the U.S. to disclose information on as many as 4,450 accounts of
UBS’s American clients suspected of evading taxes. The Swiss tax
authorities have until Aug. 24 to issue decisions on all
accounts.  
 The 18-month deferred prosecution agreement that UBS signed
to avoid criminal charges in the U.S., also runs out in August,
after which the U.S. government may seek dismissal of the case
against the bank.  
 U.S. Settlement  
 That will help UBS hire more wealth managers, Zeltner said,
after 1,149 departures in 2009. UBS, which employed 4,138
advisers at the end of March, will start making progress toward
its target of about 4,700 over the next six months, he said.  
 UBS is hiring 30 to 40 private bankers per month, Zeltner
said, adding that he’s prepared to pay what it takes to get
“industry experts.”  
 UBS will for the first time reward advisers who refer deals
to the investment bank. A portion of revenue from successful
transactions will be linked to the awards bankers get under
UBS’s equity ownership plan, the bank said in an internal memo
yesterday.  
 Zeltner, 43, aims to double his  unit’s  pretax profit in the
next three to five years to 4.6 billion francs from 2.28 billion
francs in 2009. That will still fall short of the 6.1 billion
francs the business earned in 2007.  
 UBS is willing to sacrifice pre-crisis growth rates for
building a “quality business,” said Zeltner.  
 Falling Apart  
 “We were in the spot where we told everybody that we are
the fastest-growing company,” he said. “What was the proof
point of this when it came to the crisis? It fell apart.”  
 Wealth managers in Switzerland, and particularly UBS, are
unlikely to see a full recovery of profitability because of
disputes over taxes and secrecy, the Swiss central bank said in
a June report. UBS probably won’t meet its targets of returning
to revenue of more than $10 and pretax profits of more than $4.5
on every $1,000 of assets under management, said  Dirk Hoffmann- Becking , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  
 “Private banking is still a very attractive business, but
it’s not what it was,” said Hoffmann-Becking. “And I don’t
think UBS can get back to where it was, pretty much ever.”  
 Zeltner, who comes from a small town near the Swiss city of
Thun and originally wanted to study veterinary medicine, landed
an apprenticeship in 1987 at Swiss Bank Corp., which merged 11
years later with Union Bank of Switzerland to form  UBS . The past
two years are quite unlike previous booms and busts he has
witnessed, Zeltner said.  
 Different Crisis  
 “Whenever there was a crisis, there was a correction in
value, but then there was again a clear trend of recovery,”
Zeltner said. “You basically could just attract money and sit
on the general trend. This time around it’s very different.”  
 UBS has put squawk boxes on client-adviser floors to keep
them informed and help generate investment ideas, he said. UBS
also brought together experts from the investment bank, wealth
and asset management businesses into a new investment products
and services unit, which is starting daily conference calls for
bankers today to keep them abreast of market moves.  
 Right now the bank is advising clients, who hold cash and
can stomach some risk, to invest in European equities, Zeltner
said. He is confident about the future of the euro.  
 “The euro will be weaker but it will not totally
collapse,” said Zeltner. “The political will to keep Europe
together and to keep the currency is so high.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     UBS wealth management head Juerg Zeltner. Source: UBS AG via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       UBS AG face 'more headwinds'  
                       
                         
                           Peter Frommenwiler/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Pedestrians pass the UBS AG headquarters in Zurich. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Pedestrians pass the UBS AG headquarters in Zurich. Photographer: Peter Frommenwiler/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
