-- Hungary Seeks IMF Help Restoring Confidence After `Unfortunate' Comments
-- Aaron Eglitis
-- 2010-07-06T08:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/hungary-seeks-imf-help-restoring-confidence-after-unfortunate-comments.html

          
          
             Hungary will today try to convince
international lenders it’s committed to budget cuts as policy
makers struggle to repair relations with investors a month after
officials raised the specter of a Greek-like crisis.  
 An International Monetary Fund delegation arrives in
Budapest today for its first review of Hungary’s progress on
complying with terms of a 2008 bailout since Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  took power May 29.  
 Investors are looking for IMF approval to restore
credibility to Orban’s economic program after June 3 remarks by
a ruling-party official sent the euro to a four-year low against
the dollar on concern Europe’s debt crisis was spreading.
Investors pushed bets on a Hungarian default to the highest in a
year, even though last year’s budget deficit was 4 percent of
gross domestic product, compared with 13.6 percent in Greece.  
 “If the new government agrees to the IMF’s conditions, I
will definitely increase my holdings,” said  Thomas Kirchmair ,
who helps manage $20 billion of European fixed-income assets at
Frankfurt-based Deka Investment GmbH. International lender
approval “will re-establish confidence in the markets.”  
 The forint, which strengthened after Orban moved to ease
investor concern, has fallen 2.4 percent against the euro since
June 10, the biggest drop among emerging markets in Europe.  
 Hungary undermined its goodwill with investors with a
series of uncoordinated statements by newly appointed officials
that were pounced upon by traders from London to New York.  
 Orban won a landslide victory in April by pledging to end
five years of budget cuts. After the election, Fidesz officials
said the previous administration lied about the budget and
lobbied the IMF and European Union to allow a wider deficit.  
 ‘Slim Chance’  
 Lajos Kosa , executive vice president of the ruling Fidesz
party, on June 3 told a group of Hungarian businessmen in his
hometown that the country had a “slim chance” of avoiding a
Greek-like crisis. The comments were affirmed by 31-year-old
Orban spokesman  Peter Szijjarto  the next day.  
 “I have to admit, there were unfortunate comments from
leaders in my party, not government members,” Finance Minister
 Gyorgy Matolcsy  said in a July 2 interview. “These didn’t help
in regaining credibility. I hope we are past this stage.”  
 Hungary’s government, which needs to persuade the IMF to
continue a $25 billion rescue program that started at the end of
2008, isn’t the first to learn that unguarded comments can be
perilous when combined with real-time news and traders ready to
jump on scraps of information.  
 Bernanke Lesson  
 Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  was questioned by
Congress after a 2006 dinner-party at which he told a reporter
markets had misinterpreted his comments. Bonds and the dollar
tumbled after CNBC reported the conversation, which Bernanke
called a “lapse in judgment.”  
 During the IMF’s two-week visit, Hungary’s government will
try to persuade the fund to accept a deficit target of as much
as 3.8 percent of GDP for 2011 instead of 2.8 percent, Matolcsy
said. Hungary needs the extra room to finance changes in
government, such as merging state agencies at the county level,
to yield longer-term savings, he said.  
 The government also wants a two-year “precautionary” loan
agreement for as much as 20 billion euros beginning in 2011,
Matolcsy said.  
 Parliament yesterday approved a bill loosening budget
rules, ignoring the independent Fiscal Council, which said it
would erode fiscal credibility. The  bill , written by a ruling
party lawmaker, removes the results of majority state-owned
companies from the budget and widens the government’s ability to
forego supplementary budgets in case of overspending.  
 The  budget shortfall  jumped to 119 percent of the
full-year target in the first half, from 85 percent in the
January to May period, the Economy Ministry said yesterday.  
 Bank Tax  
 In an effort to persuade investors the government can reach
its deficit target, Orban on June 8 announced plans to raise 120
billion forint ($527 million) this year from a new tax on banks.
He also said Hungary would cut public spending, reduce personal
income taxes and lower taxes for small businesses.  
 The government failed last week to reach agreement with
banks on the proposed tax, and none of the other measures have
been approved by parliament.  
 Investors are looking for assurances the government has the
political will to stick to its fiscal plans.  
 “Investors are acutely sensitive to any evidence of the
political process losing its commitment toward austerity and
European unity,” said  Stuart Thomson , who helps manage the
equivalent of $100 billion at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow.
“The last two years have taught us that the world is a lot more
interconnected than we previously thought.”  
 Turnover Increases  
 Traders also spend less time investing more money than they
did a decade ago. The average daily turnover on foreign-exchange
markets rose to $3.2 trillion in 2007 from $1.5 trillion in
1998, according to the Bank for International Settlements.
Average daily bond trading volume in the U.S. peaked at $1.03
trillion in 2008, compared with $358 billion in 2000, a study by
the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association shows.  
 Kosa, 46, learned how quickly  markets move  when he spoke at
a small-business conference in Debrecen, 232 kilometers (144
miles) east of Budapest. While no international media attended,
his speech was published on the website of Hungarian newspaper
Napi Gazdasag.  
 ‘Introspection Needed’  
 Global newswires started relaying his comments after 2 p.m.
local time. By 3 p.m., the forint had dropped 1.4 percent
against the euro, and it closed down 2.4 percent that day. The
slide continued June 4 for a two-day decline of 4.8 percent, the
worst among 26 emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  
 Credit-default swaps on Hungarian government debt rose 151
basis points during the two-day period to 410.2, the highest
since April 2009.  
 In Luxembourg, KBC Asset Management SA teams huddled for
meetings and decided to stay invested in Hungary, expecting the
government to stick with policies approved by the IMF, said
 Lazlo Belgrado , who helps manage about 3 billion euros of
emerging-market bonds at KBC.  
 “Policy makers should do some introspection,” Belgrado
said. “What do you expect? They are the ones who have the
books.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Balazs Penz  at   bpenz@bloomberg.net 
 Aaron Eglitis  at   aeglitis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        