-- Hungarian Budget Deficit Reached 4% of Economic Output in First Quarter
-- Zoltan Simon
-- 2010-07-05T07:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/hungarian-budget-deficit-reached-4-of-economic-output-in-first-quarter.html

          
          
             Hungary, which is implementing a
special tax on financial institutions to meet a creditor-
approved  budget deficit  target, posted a shortfall of 4 percent
of gross domestic product in the first quarter.  
 The deficit matches the average budget gap for last year
and is 0.8 percentage point lower than in the first three months
of last year, the Budapest-based  statistics office  said today in
a statement.  
 Officials from the  International Monetary Fund  and the
European Union, which provided Hungary with the bulk of a 20
billion-euro ($25 billion) bailout in 2008, will begin a review
of the country’s budget policies tomorrow. The government has
pledged to reduce the shortfall to 3.8 percent of GDP this year.  
 Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  had sought a wider shortfall
during his election campaign to favor economic growth, after the
worst recession since 1991 hit the country last year. The
cabinet reversed course last month after comments by ruling-
party officials comparing Hungary to Greece pushed the forint to
a 12-month low against the euro.  
 The cabinet is seeking IMF and EU approval to increase the
budget gap target for next year to between 3 percent and 3.8
percent from the current 2.8 percent in exchange for
“structural” economic reforms, including merging state
agencies at the county level, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy 
said in a July 2 interview. The government is committed to
narrowing the shortfall next year, Matolcsy said.  
 The government wants to impose a 187 billion forint ($824
million) tax on financial institutions to plug budget holes this
year, including a 120 billion forint levy on lenders. The
cabinet failed to finalize an agreement with banks last week
after the owners of six banks withdrew the negotiating mandate
of their local units, Matolcsy said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        