-- Murdoch Money for British Tour Team Provokes Envy in France
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-05T22:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/murdoch-s-money-for-british-cycling-squad-provokes-envy-at-tour-de-france.html

          
          
             Rupert Murdoch ’s money is backing a
U.K. cycling team at the Tour de France as the British try to
end a winless streak that goes back more than a century.  
 Team Sky’s sponsors, led by  British Sky Broadcasting Plc 
and  Murdoch ’s News Corp., see a marketing benefit during the
current cycling boom for Britain, which won eight gold medals
at the 2008 Olympic Games. Its superior financial clout is
making the French envious, according to Daniel Malbranque,
general secretary of the international riders’ union. A
Frenchman hasn’t won the Tour since  Bernard Hinault  in 1985.  
 “There’s a lot of money in the Sky team and there are
criticisms and comments” from French teams, Malbranque said
from Perpignan, France. “If they were French, it would be
different. There is jealousy.”  
 Team Sky , which wants a Brit to top the podium in Paris
within five years, paid 2 million euros ($2.4 million) to hire
U.K. rider  Bradley Wiggins  from the Garmin team in December,
according to French newspaper L’Equipe. In promoting a high-tech
approach, Manchester, England-based Team Sky is also irking some
in France, host of the Tour since 1903.  
 The July 3-25 Tour crosses into France today after a
prologue and two stages in the Netherlands and Belgium. Team Sky
has three Britons among its nine competitors, and is in fifth
place, 3 minutes, seven seconds behind the Quick Step team from
Belgium after two stages.  
 British riders haven’t had success at the Tour de France,
with none finishing in the top three. Wiggins was fourth last
year, matching  Robert Millar ’s best performance by a U.K. rider
25 years earlier.  
 Last U.K. Team  
 The last U.K. Tour team was ANC-Halfords, which ran out of
money during its 1987 appearance, according to William
Fotheringham, author of “Roule Britannia,” a history of
British riders at the race.  
 Team Sky has enough cash to fit mood lighting in its Volvo
AB bus and equip its riders with  Apple Inc.  iPhones, BSkyB
officials said. Sky cyclists are better paid on average than
counterparts on other teams, according to Malbranque. Murdoch’s
son James,  News Corp. ’s chief executive officer in Europe and
Asia and a keen cyclist, is taking a special interest in the
team and watched it at the Paris-Roubaix race in April, News
Corp. officials said.  
 Murdoch, 37, declined to comment for this story, News Corp.
spokeswoman  Alice Macandrew  said from London. In April, Murdoch,
who’s also non-executive chairman of BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest
pay-television operator, told  cyclingnews.com  at the race that
“we’re trying to push the envelope” with the team.  
 Takeover Offer  
 On June 15, BSkyB rejected a 7.8 billion-pound ($11.8
billion) offer from New York-based News Corp. to buy the 61
percent of the company it doesn’t already own.  
 News Corp. and BSkyB declined to give details of their
financing of the team, whose other backers include  Marks &
Spencer Group Plc  and Jaguar Cars Ltd., the luxury automobile
maker owned by Tata Motors Ltd.  
 Tour de France teams’ annual budgets typically range from
$10 million to $20 million,  Jonathan Vaughters , manager of the
Garmin team, said. While not the biggest in cycling, Team Sky’s
budget is “healthy,” Robert Tansey, BSkyB’s group brand
marketing director, said in a statement.  
 Team Sky is led by David Brailsford, who oversaw the
British Olympic cycling success and who is bringing an approach
to road racing that the team and backers call “aggregating
marginal gains.” They’re not shy of talking about it: after
testing riders’ aerodynamic profile in a wind tunnel, the team
puts out a press release, says Marc Madiot, Francaise des Jeux
team manager.  
 ‘Media Driven’  
 “We too have that kind of know-how but we don’t make a
fuss about it,” Madiot said from Paris. Sky is “more media-
driven” than French teams, Madiot added.  
 BSkyB, which has shown English Premier League soccer games
in the U.K. since 1992 and whose current contract with the
league is worth 1.62 billion pounds, is backing the Tour team
“not to promote a product” but to inspire millions of Britons
to ride bikes, BSkyB’s Tansey said. The company, based in
Isleworth, west of London, also supports “grass roots” cycling
in the U.K., Tansey added.  
 The cycling investment is “small beer compare to what they
pay for football,” said  Nigel Currie , director of Guilford,
England-based sports marketing agency BrandRapport. BSkyB “can
help the sport develop and will easily get their money back”
with the publicity, he added.  
 Of the Tour teams, Team Sky is not just upsetting the
French. The Boulder, Colorado-based Garmin team objected when
Sky lured away Wiggins while he had a year left on his contract.
While signing under-contract athletes is common in soccer, it’s
“not typical” in cycling, Garmin team manager Vaughters said.  
 Compensation  
 Wiggins told the Guardian newspaper Feb. 4 he couldn’t turn
down the chance to lead a U.K. team, adding Garmin received
compensation from Sky. Vaughters declined to comment, saying the
accord was confidential.  
 The British shouldn’t get their hopes up, according to
Madiot. Wiggins is fifth favorite at 20-1 with U.K. oddsmaker
Blue Square and France’s best hopes are 250-1 chances, meaning a
successful $1 bet would yield $250.  
 Spain’s two-time winner  Alberto Contador  is 1-2 favorite.  
 “There’s a possibility a French rider wins the Tour de
France but it’s very difficult,” Madiot said. “And the same
applies for the English.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bradley Wiggins of Great Britain and Team SKY in action during the 8.9km Prologue for the 97th Tour de France in Rotterdam. Photographer: Bryn Lennon/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Betty Liu reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
