-- Turkish Inflation Slowed to 8.4%, Strengthening Case for Low Interest Rate
-- Steve Bryant
-- 2010-07-05T07:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/turkish-inflation-slowed-to-8-4-strengthening-case-for-low-interest-rate.html

          
          
             Turkey’s  inflation  rate fell last
month to the lowest since January, supporting the central bank’s
efforts to keep interest rates at a historic low.  
 The annual consumer inflation rate fell to 8.4 percent from
9.1 percent the month before, the statistics office in Ankara
said on its website today. It was expected at 8.8 percent,
according to the median estimate of ten economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. In the  month , prices declined 0.6 percent.  
 Central bank Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  has kept the benchmark
rate unchanged since November even as the economy returns to
growth after the global financial crisis, arguing that faster
inflation would prove temporary. There’s now growing uncertainty
about the pace of the recovery and it’s “too early to change
the policy stance,” the bank said on June 29.  
 “The data completely justifies the central bank’s dovish
stance,”  Timothy Ash , head of emerging market research at Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc in London, said in an e-mailed report to
investors after the figures emerged. “People will be pushing
out their rate hike expectations now to the first quarter.”  
 Bonds rose after the report, pushing the  yield  on two-year
lira debt down 3 basis points to 8.51 percent at 10:29 in
Istanbul, according to ABN Amro benchmark prices. The main  ISE-
100 share index  rose 0.2 percent.  
 The cost of groceries and non-alcoholic drinks fell 2.5
percent from a month earlier and transport prices dropped 0.4
percent. The measure of core inflation the central bank tracks,
which excludes food and energy prices, slowed to 5 percent from
5.5 percent in May.  
 ‘Somewhat Positive’  
 “Inflation dynamics have turned somewhat positive thanks
to lower food prices in the near term and the slight moderation
in energy prices,”  Ilker Domac , economist in Istanbul for
Citigroup Inc., said in an e-mailed report on July 1.  
 The bank, which predicted a year-end rate of 8.4 percent
two months ago, said last week that inflation is slowing more
than it had expected. It’s due to update the forecasts on July
27. The official target for the end of the year is 6.5 percent.  
 Quarterly economic growth  was 0.1 percent in the first
three months of this year, slowing from 1.7 percent in the
earlier period, the statistics office said June 30.  
 The bank meets on July 15 to set the benchmark one-week
 repo lending rate , which stands at 7 percent. Yilmaz says the
bank aims to keep the rate “at current rates for some time, and
at low levels for a long period,” according to the statement
released after the June rates meeting.  
 The cost of goods leaving Turkish factories and mines rose
an annual 7.6 percent in June, compared with a rise of 9.2
percent the previous month, the statistics agency said today.
 Producer prices  fell 0.5 percent in the month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        