-- Uruguay Coach Rejects `Cheats' Tag Before World Cup Semifinal vs. Dutch
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-07-05T22:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/uruguay-coach-rejects-cheats-tag-before-world-cup-semifinal-vs-dutch.html

          
          
             Uruguay coach Oscar Tabarez defended
his players’ integrity as he prepares them for the country’s
first World Cup semifinal in 40 years against the Netherlands.  
 Striker Luis Suarez said he had the “hand of God” after
punching a goal-bound header clear during the quarterfinal
against Ghana. Uruguay advanced to the final four in a penalty
shootout after Asamoah Gyan failed to win the game for Ghana by
missing the resulting spot-kick from Suarez’s handball.  
 Tabarez said that his squad has no need to feel embarrassed
about the incident, maintaining that Suarez didn’t deliberately
cheat when he handled the ball on the goal-line in the last
seconds of extra time with match tied at 1-1.  
 “It was an instinctive act,” Tabarez told reporters last
night in Cape Town. “Suarez couldn’t foresee what happened
afterwards, that Ghana would miss the penalty. Uruguay went
through almost three matches without a yellow card at all. So
please don’t tell me we’re cheats.”  
 Suarez is suspended for today’s semifinal after getting
red-carded for his handball, depriving Uruguay of a striker
who’s scored three goals in the two-time champion’s surprise run
to the final four.  
 Tabarez declined to say which players will start the game
at Green Point Stadium after a group of journalists broke into a
closed training session yesterday. He described those actions as
those of “war correspondents.”  
 Netherlands coach  Bert Van Marwijk  said Suarez’s absence is
a “mixed blessing,” because his defenders have experience of
handling a striker who plays in the Dutch league for Amsterdam-
based Ajax.  
 Tabarez’s team is the only one of five South American teams
left in the tournament following the quarterfinal exits of
Argentina, Paraguay and tournament favorite Brazil, which let
slip a 1-0 halftime lead against the Netherlands. Chile reached
the knockout stages, where it lost 3-0 to Brazil.  
 Dutch Favorites  
 With players including 2010 Champions League winner  Wesley Sneijder  and runner-up  Arjen Robben , the Netherlands is rated
the 3-10 favorite to get past Uruguay and reach the July 11
final in Johannesburg, according to U.K. bookmaker William Hill.  
 Uruguay, which is the 11-2 outsider to reach the final,
beat Costa Rica in a playoff of qualify for the World Cup after
finishing fifth in South America’s group. Tabarez’s team was the
last of the 32 nations to seal a spot in South Africa.  
 “Holland are the stronger team and if we left it like
that, we’d go home now,” said Tabarez. “But you don’t come to
a World Cup to work out who has greatest potential. It’s about
getting to the final. The score-line has not been written yet.”  
 With the Netherlands, twice a World Cup runner-up in the
1970s, expected to win, Tabarez said his team go into the match
without pressure.  
 “Players on the Dutch side will feel the burden of
responsibility more than us,” the coach said.  
 Uruguay’s results so far have sparked celebrations on the
streets of the capital, Montevideo, with public processions
accompanying each success of the tournament’s second-least
populous nation after Slovenia.  
 “What we have to win is our dreams,” Tabarez said.
“Football gives you the opportunities sometimes to make dreams
come true.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Cape Town through the London sports desk at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Uruguay's coach Oscar Tabarez speaks at a press conference in Green Point stadium in Cape Town. Photographer: Rodrigo Arangua/AFP/Getty Images)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
