-- Wall Street Lawyers Take Hong Kong Bar for China Fees
-- Debra Mao
-- 2010-07-06T04:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/wall-street-lawyers-take-hong-kong-exam-in-search-of-china-advisory-fees.html

          
          
             William Barron , who advised
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. on the world’s
largest privatization and Cnooc Ltd. on its 2005 attempt to buy
Unocal Corp., qualified to be a Hong Kong lawyer this year.  
 The 53-year-old partner in Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP’s Hong
Kong office and 16 of its other 24 lawyers in the city took the
exam as law firms bet that the special administrative region of
China is the key to future fees from the world’s fastest-growing
major  economy .  
 Beijing-based firms including King & Wood have opened in
Hong Kong, where the number of international law firm offices
has almost doubled to 69 since 2004 as Chinese companies’ share
of Hong Kong’s  market capitalization  has risen to half from less
than 5 percent in 1993. That’s a challenge to London-based firms
in the former British colony, the only part of China where
foreign lawyers can advise on local law.  
 “Hong Kong has become the battleground for the world’s law
firms,” said Barron. “This is where the action is.”  
 If Davis Polk and Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP,
whose partners were among the record 224 lawyers taking the Hong
Kong exam in 2009, decide to set up Hong Kong practices, they
would join Wall Street peers Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP and
Shearman & Sterling LLP, which have done so in the last ten
months.  
 Skadden’s 2005 Move  
 While U.S. firms have had Hong Kong offices since 1972,
most New York firms focused on offering advice on U.S. law until
2005, when Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP hired  Nick Norris  and  Dominic Tsun  from London firms to offer Hong Kong law
advice.  
 Initially focused on capital markets work, the capability
has helped Skadden, the  second highest-grossing  U.S. firm in
2009, serve private equity investors like Bain Capital LLC on
its purchase of convertible bonds of Gome Electrical Appliance
Holdings Ltd. last year.  
 “We’ve won work on several deals where the client’s
regular counsel doesn’t have a Hong Kong law capability,” said
Norris.  
 Skadden also set up a new disputes practice in Hong Kong
last year, another area where international firms see steady
growth in China-related work.  
 “Hong Kong has the advantages of a strong legal culture
and respect for the rule of law,” said  Jason Fry , the Paris-
based secretary general of the International Chamber of Commerce
International Court of Arbitration.  
 ‘Fair Judgments’  
 With its separate courts and judiciary, Hong Kong law is
recognized internationally, said  Robert Thomson , the head of the
Hong Kong office of Cleveland-based Jones Day, which established
its local practice in 1996.  
 “Hong Kong is seen as a place where you can get a fair
judgment,” he said. Chinese judges by comparison, openly say
that Communist Party politics influence their decisions.  
 Hong Kong, whose economy was eclipsed by Shanghai’s in
March, isn’t taking its lead for granted. China’s modern legal
system has developed rapidly since 1979 and law firms like 18-
year-old Dacheng Law Offices, which opened a Hong Kong office
this year, is now Asia’s largest by  lawyers  with 835.  
 Hong Kong Justice Secretary  Wong Yan Lung , promoting the
city at a  forum  in Shanghai today, told more than 500 Chinese
legal officials and businesspeople that Hong Kong’s capital
markets and dispute resolution services can help them access the
global marketplace.  
 One-Stop Shop  
 Beijing-based  Jun He Law Offices  opened in Hong Kong in
2006 and received its local license last year. Businesses from
China find Hong Kong shelf companies more convenient and less
costly for their overseas ventures than other jurisdictions like
the British Virgin Islands, according to mergers and antitrust
partner  Janet Hui .  
 “Our clients are looking for one-stop shop service and
cost effectiveness,” she said. Jun He is one of at least six
Chinese firms in Hong Kong with local law capabilities now.  
 Equity capital markets work has become highly competitive,
like advice on direct investment in China where many foreign
investors are now comfortable working directly with Chinese law
firms, according to  Paul Li , China head at London-based Simmons
& Simmons.  
 “You need to be operating at the very top of the market
for it to make sense in terms of fees,” Li said, adding that
Simmons & Simmons now focuses on sectors including financial
institutions and life sciences.  
 Fees Pushed Down  
 Thomas So , head of litigation at  Mayer Brown JSM  in Hong
Kong, said the market will only get more competitive, even in
areas like disputes and transactions that some firms see as
offering better fees now.  
 “All work -- capital markets, syndicated finance -- used
to be more profitable,” he said. Not only are more firms
entering Hong Kong, clients are also building bigger teams of
their own staff lawyers, he said.  
 “Hong Kong now has 1,500 in-house counsel,” he said.
“What are they doing? Work that used to be done by practicing
lawyers so fees are pushed down.”  
 Still, Hong Kong has attracted initial share sales from
beyond China with  United Co. Rusal Ltd.  of Russia and L’Occitane
International SA of France among the 24 deals raising $5.6
billion this year, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Asia looks like it’s booming compared with London and New
York following the 2008 financial crisis, according to  Peter Charlton , Asia Managing Partner at London-based Clifford Chance
LLP, which advised China Minsheng Banking Corp. on both the Hong
Kong and U.S. law aspects of its $3.9 billion November IPO.  
 Companies raised $29.7 billion through IPOs in Hong Kong
last year, the most of any exchange, and Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd. this month may surpass ICBC’s 2006 record.  
 “We’ve had three decades of growth in China but we’re
really still at the beginning of the process,” said Charlton.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     William Barron, partner in Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP's Hong Kong office. Source: Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Nicholas Norris, a partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. Source: Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Peter Charlton, Asia Managing Partner at Clifford Chance LLP. Source: Clifford Chance via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
