-- Won, Ringgit Lead Asia Currency Gains as Interest-Rate Increases Forecast
-- David Yong
-- 2010-07-05T04:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/won-ringgit-lead-asia-currency-gains-as-interest-rate-increases-forecast.html

          
          
             Asian  currencies gained, led by South
Korea’s won, on speculation global investors will pump more
funds into regional assets as economic expansion gives policy
makers the confidence to raise interest rates.  
 The won snapped a four-day losing streak after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. raised its 2010 growth forecast and predicted
the Bank of Korea, which next reviews policy on July 9, will
lift its benchmark rate this quarter. Malaysia’s ringgit
approached a one-week high after a report showed exports
increased for a sixth month in May, bolstering expectations
borrowing costs will be increased at a July 8 review.  
 “Offshore players are selling dollars more than
expected,” said Ha Jun Woo, a currency trader for Daegu Bank
Ltd. in Seoul. “We’re also seeing preemptive bets ahead of the
central bank’s monetary policy meeting. If interest rates rise,
that will push investors to sell dollars and buy the won.”  
 The won strengthened 0.6 percent to 1,221.97 per dollar as
of 1:06 p.m. in Seoul, after sliding 1.1 percent last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ringgit rose 0.2
percent to 3.2180 and the Singapore dollar gained 0.1 percent to
S$1.3926.  
 Malaysia, India and Taiwan have all raised interest rates
so far this year to contain inflation as their economies improve.
A U.S. government report on July 2 showed employment in the
world’s largest economy fell 125,000 in June, increasing the
likelihood that the Federal Reserve will keep its target rate
for overnight loans between banks near zero.  
 Forecast Rebound  
 A recent “soft patch” in Asian currencies is likely to
prove temporary, said  Calbert Loh , head of treasury at Bangkok
Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “I expect to see a rebound as policy
makers in Asia start restoring rates from very low levels.”  
 Premier Wen Jiabao over the weekend pledged China will
sustain “relatively fast” economic growth, supporting regional
trade. Malaysia, which shipped 18 percent of its exports to
China and Hong Kong in the first five months of this year, said
July 2 its overseas sales increased 21.9 percent in May from a
year earlier following a 26.6 percent gain the previous month.  
 South Korea’s economy will expand 5.3 percent this year,
more than a previous forecast of 4.8 percent,  Goohoon Kwon , a
Seoul-based economist at Goldman, wrote in a report published
yesterday. The Bank of Korea will raise its seven-day  repurchase
rate  this quarter after holding it at a record-low 2 percent
since February 2009, he predicted.  
 Rate Outlook  
 Four of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a
quarter of a percentage point increase at the next policy
meeting on July 9, while eight forecast no change. An increase
“is not completely ruled out,”  Lim Ji-Won , a Seoul-based
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote today in a report.  
 Bank Negara Malaysia will lift its  overnight rate  by a
quarter point to 2.75 percent at a July 8 review, according to
eight of 15 economists in a separate survey. The rest forecast
no change by the central bank, which has already increased
borrowing costs twice this year.  
 Taiwan’s dollar rose 0.1 percent to NT$32.243 on
speculation exporters are converting their overseas income after
the currency reached a two-week low on the first two days of
this month. A government report on July 8 is expected to show
shipments increased 46 percent in June from a year earlier,
following a 58 percent jump in May, according to the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  
 “Exporters see the price is good and want to sell their
U.S. dollars,” said Hao-Yun Juan, a currency trader at
Kingstown Bank in Taipei. Central-bank intervention may temper
gains, according to  Suan Teck Kin , an economist in Singapore at
United Overseas Bank Ltd.  
 Elsewhere, the Philippine peso and Indonesia’s rupiah were
little changed at 46.505 and 9,062, respectively. The Thai baht
was also steady at 32.42 and China’s yuan fell 0.05 percent to
6.7746.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        