-- Yen, Dollar Fall Versus Euro as Rally in Stocks Reduces Demand for Refuge
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-07-06T12:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/yen-strengthens-toward-seven-month-high-against-dollar-on-global-slowdown.html

          
          
             The yen dropped to a one-week low
versus the euro and the dollar declined before a report on U.S.
service industries as a stock rally reduced bid for a refuge.  
 Australia’s dollar rose against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as the nation’s central bank said business
investment is poised to expand and a report showed the trade
surplus swelled in May, paced by demand in Asia for coal and
gold. The euro advanced versus the dollar as the Stoxx Europe
600 Index climbed for the first time in more than a week.  
 “Things are rebounding from last week’s risk turndown,”
said  Brian Kim , a currency strategist at UBS AG in Stamford,
Connecticut. “Right now people are adjusting positions and
getting acclimatized to the recent data.”  
 Japan’s currency weakened 0.5 percent to 110.62 per euro at
8:28 a.m. in New York, from 110.05 yesterday. It touched 110.85,
the weakest level since June 25. The yen was little changed at
87.83 per dollar, compared with 87.77. The euro advanced 0.5
percent to $1.2596, from $1.2538.  
 New Zealand’s dollar advanced 0.7 percent to 60.88 yen and
South Africa’s rand appreciated 0.7 percent to 7.70 versus the
dollar as the rally in equities encouraged investors to purchase
higher-yielding assets.  
 Global stocks strengthened as analysts raised earnings
estimates for U.S. companies at the fastest rate since at least
2004. Profit for Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies will jump
34 percent in 2010, compared with a projected gain of 27 percent
on March 29, according to more than 8,000 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg News.  
 Equity Gains  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index increased 2.3 percent, while S&P
500 Index futures expiring in September climbed 1.1 percent. The
 MSCI World Index  of stocks dropped 4 percent last week on
evidence of a slowed economic recovery in the U.S. and China.  
 Australia’s currency appreciated 1.6 percent to 85.26 U.S.
cents, after dropping to 83.16 cents on July 1, the lowest since
June 10. The Aussie gained 1.7 percent to 74.89 yen.  
 Reserve Bank of Australia policy makers led by Governor
 Glenn Stevens  held the overnight cash rate target at 4.5
percent, saying output growth is likely to be at about trend.  
 “The market had built in a bit more bearishness than the
RBA delivered,” said  Joseph Capurso , a currency strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. “They don’t seem as
concerned about the global economy as the market, and that
should support the Aussie dollar.”  
 Australia’s Surplus  
 The South Pacific nation’s surplus swelled to A$1.65
billion ($1.4 billion) in May from a revised A$1.12 billion in
the previous month, the  Bureau of Statistics  said today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 21 economists was
for a surplus of A$500 million.  
 The yen has gained 13 percent against its global peers this
year, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indices, on concern the global economic recovery is slowing.  
 Rich nations will reduce their primary budget deficits,
excluding interest payments, by 1.6 percentage points next year,
the most since the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development began keeping records in 1970, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. economists. The budget squeeze will lop 0.9
percentage point off growth in 2011.  
 Recoveries worldwide are “very slow” and any tightening
of monetary policies by central banks would cause a “big
problem,”  Kenneth Rogoff , a Harvard University professor and
former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, said
in a Bloomberg Television interview today.  
 U.S. Services  
 Service industries in the U.S. expanded in June at a slower
pace, indicating the economy started to cool entering the second
half, economists said before a report today.  
 The Institute for Supply Management’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses fell to 55 from 55.4 in May, according
to the median  forecast  of 59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Readings above 50 signal expansion. The report is due at
10 a.m. New York time.  
 The most accurate foreign-exchange forecaster says the euro
will resume its decline and may approach parity with the dollar
as the European Central Bank buys more government bonds to
support the region’s economy.  
 Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at TD Securities
Inc. in Toronto, said the euro will depreciate to $1.13 in the
third quarter, $1.08 by year-end and may near $1 in 2011 before
recovering. Osborne, whose predictions were within 4.1 percent
of the mark on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
was echoed by the nine following most-accurate forecasters
anticipating a lower euro in the next two quarters.  
 The euro weakened 15 percent against the dollar in the
first half on speculation record budget deficits from Ireland to
Portugal to Greece will force governments to cut spending and
reduce economic growth.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 6 (Bloomberg) -- Daniel Tenengauzer, head of emerging-market currency and rates strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, talks about the outlook of the currency market.
     Tenengauzer talks with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Rogoff, professor at Harvard University and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about China's real estate market and economy.
     Rogoff, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for European banks, the global economy and stimulus policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
