-- Polish Zloty Strengthens Against Euro as Komorowski Wins Polish Presidency
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-07-05T15:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-05/zloty-may-rally-after-komorowski-s-victory-in-polish-presidential-election.html

          
          
             The zloty rallied against the euro,
leading gains among emerging market currencies as investors bet
 Bronislaw Komorowski ’s victory in a presidential election will
help Poland cut its deficit and adopt the euro in 2015.  
 The zloty jumped 0.9 percent against the single currency,
trading at 4.1143 at 5:15 p.m. in Warsaw, trimming its loss so
far this year to 0.2 percent. Bond prices rose, pushing the
yield on five-year notes 5 basis points lower to 5.3 percent.
The  benchmark WIG20 Index  of stocks declined 0.4 percent.  
 Komorowski received 53 percent of the vote to  Jaroslaw Kaczynski ’s 47 percent, according to the final tally by the
State Election Commission today. Kaczynski, the leader of the
country’s largest opposition party, conceded defeat based on
exit poll results yesterday.  
 Victory for Komorowski, 58, gives his Civic Platform party
control of the presidency and cabinet, ending divisions that
arose under the late President  Lech Kaczynski , Jaroslaw’s
identical twin brother, who died in an April 10 plane crash.
That may help Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  push through spending
cuts, reducing a  budget deficit  that widened to 7.1 percent of
gross domestic product last year, more than twice the European
Union limit.  
 “It’s the best outcome for the financial markets, which
were a bit concerned last week as the numbers coming from
surveys were too close to call,” said  Nigel Rendell , a senior
emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital in London. “A
president from the same party as the government gives the best
chance for passing legislation.”  
 Budget Deficits  
 Most countries in the region are emerging from the worst
recession since the end of communism two decades ago and trade
is picking up after the credit crisis curbed investments and
companies cut jobs. Governments are battling to slash budget
deficits after falling tax revenue widened the shortfalls.  
 The president represents Poland abroad, is head of the army
and can veto legislation. Overriding a veto requires a three-
fifths majority in parliament.  
 “Komorowski’s victory is a good sign, but at the same time
there’s no reason for a great euphoria,” said  Piotr Bielski , an
economist at Bank Zachodni WBK SA in Warsaw. “The key question
is how likely fast reforms are in the context of the struggle
for votes ahead of next year’s parliamentary elections.”  
 The Civic Platform-led government has proposed limiting
increases in discretionary spending to no more than 1 percent
above inflation, saving an estimated  9 billion zloty  ($2.7
billion) a year by 2013. That will help narrow the deficit to
less than the EU limit of 3 percent of GDP within three years,
the government estimates.  
 While Kaczynski has opposed setting a deadline for joining
the euro, Komorowski said June 14 that Poland needs a target
date to “create pressure” for meeting the fiscal requirements
of membership.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        