-- China Life Profit Slides 61% On Stock Falls, Premiums
-- Josephine Lau
-- 2008-04-27T12:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-04-27/china-life-profit-slides-61-on-stock-falls-premiums-update2-.html

          
          
             China Life Insurance Co. (2628) , the
nation's largest insurer, said first-quarter profit plummeted as
its investment returns took a hit from a decline in the domestic
stock market.  
 The Beijing-based insurer's first-quarter  net income  dropped
60.9 percent to 3.47 billion  yuan  ($495 million), or 0.12 yuan a
share, from 8.89 billion yuan, or 0.31 yuan a share, the firm
said in a  statement  to the Shanghai stock exchange today.  
 China Life's investment returns plunged in the first quarter
as the nation's benchmark stock market lost 29 percent of its
value, making it the world's seventh-worst performer after being
its best in 2007. The firm's 39.5 percent first-quarter premium
growth also left it trailing a 52 percent average for the
country's life insurance industry.  
 ``I'd feel comfortable buying more China Life and other
insurance stocks if I could rely on Chinese stocks going up 10
percent a year like a normal market,'' not going up 100 percent
or plunging, said  Howard Wang , the Hong Kong-based head of
 Greater China  at JF Asset Management Ltd., which owns China Life
shares. ``If A shares resume a more normal path, that would allow
investors to look past factors like slowing premium growth.''  
 China Life's  net investment income  fell 10 percent to 15.1
billion yuan in the first quarter, the statement said. The
company had 23 percent of its 2007  portfolio  invested in equities,
compared with 24.7 percent for smaller rival  Ping An Insurance
(Group) Co. (2318)  Shenzhen-based Ping An, China's second-biggest
insurance firm, is scheduled to announce first-quarter earnings
on April 30.  
 ``Equities are actually not a large part of Chinese
insurers' portfolios, but they ended up taking a disproportionate
role in companies' reported earnings because the market was so
heated last year,'' according to JF Asset Management's Wang.  
 Equity Investment Returns  
 Chinese insurers are well-equipped to manage their equity
investments, though short-term headline profits and investor
sentiment will be negatively affected by the market slump, wrote
Hong Kong-based Credit Suisse Group analysts Chris Esson and
Frances Feng in an April 17 report.  
 Esson and Feng, who have an ``outperform''  rating  on  China 
Life's stock, said they prefer the company to Ping An because the
former's equity portfolio provides greater profit-smoothing
flexibility. China Life's acquisitions strategy is also not as
rife with uncertainty as Ping An's, according to Credit Suisse.  
 ``A simpler corporate outlook equals a cleaner investment
case,'' wrote Esson and Feng. ``While we would not rule out M&A
for China Life, given its surplus capital, the fact it's not
trying to raise capital makes the investment case easier to
quantify.''  
 Acquisitions Strategy  
 Ping An announced last month it will buy half of Fortis's
asset-management operations for 2.15 billion euros ($3.4 billion).
That month, the firm's shareholders approved Ping An's plan to
sell as many as 1.2 billion new shares on the Shanghai bourse,
which may raise as much as 80.4 billion yuan for the firm's
coffers based on the April 25 closing share price.  
 China Life will look at buying assets abroad, though
``domestic expansion remains our bread and butter,'' China Life
Chairman Yang Chao said in an interview in March.  
 The company's revenue rose 18.4 percent to 111.1 billion
yuan in the period. China Life's first-quarter results were
unaudited.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Josephine Lau in Beijing at 
 jlau22@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        