-- Dynegy Reports Third-Quarter Net Loss of $69 Million
-- Edward Klump
-- 2006-11-08T21:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-08/dynegy-reports-third-quarter-net-loss-of-69-million-update6-.html

          
          
             Dynegy Inc., owner of power plants in
10 U.S. states, reported a third-quarter loss of $69 million
after writing down the value of a  Kentucky  power plant and
recording costs for a debt exchange.  
 The net loss was equivalent to 14 cents a share and compared
with net income of $29 million, or 6 cents a share after payment
of dividends on preferred stock, a year earlier, Houston-based
Dynegy said today in a statement. The per-share profit of 6 cents
excluding one-time items fell short of analysts' estimates.  
 ``It's a little bit less than we anticipated,'' said  Daniele
Seitz , an analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co. in New York who expected
Dynegy to earn 8 cents a share. The average estimate from seven
analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial was 9 cents.  
 Shares of Dynegy fell 20 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $6.02 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock, which has
three buy ratings from analysts and seven holds, still is up 24
percent for the year. Seitz rates the stock a buy and owns none.  
 The third-quarter results included a $61 million impairment
for the reduced value of the 576-megawatt Bluegrass peaking plant
in Kentucky because of changes in the market, the company said.
Peaking plants are used during periods of strongest power demand.  
 Dynegy also recorded costs of $23 million for the exchange
of subordinated debt held by Sithe Energies Inc., which it
acquired in November 2004, and $14 million in litigation costs.  
 LS Power  
 Chief Executive Officer Bruce Williamson, 47, sold assets
and unwound a failed energy trading business to avoid bankruptcy
after the collapse of Enron Corp. in 2001. In September, he
agreed to buy plants from LS Power Group for $2.3 billion to
expand Dynegy's generating capacity by 69 percent and make the it
the third-largest U.S. power producer that doesn't own utilities.  
 Overall sales fell 25 percent to $581 million, the company
said. At Dynegy's power-generation business, third-quarter
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
or EBITDA, fell to $92 million from $177 million a year earlier
because of the plant writedown. The division also was hurt by
lower prices, the company said.  
 Midwest  
 Excluding the asset impairment, EBIDTA from power generation
in the U.S. Midwest rose 25 percent as the business benefited
from financial transactions used to lock in prices, the company
said.  
 Dynegy said it will issue its forecast for 2007 earnings on
Dec. 13.  
 The acquisition of the LS Power plants will extend Dynegy's
operations to 15 states and give it more than 20,000 megawatts of
generation, enough to supply 16 million U.S. homes. The
transaction is expected to close early next year.  
 Closely held LS Power, based in East Brunswick, New Jersey,
will get 40 percent of Dynegy's stock and $375 million in cash
and notes for the plants. The companies will create a joint
venture to build new plants and expand existing ones.  
 Calpine Corp., which is reorganizing in bankruptcy, is the
largest so called independent power producer and NRG Energy Inc.
is second largest.  
 (Dynegy held an earnings conference call for investors and
analysts at 9 a.m. New York time. A replay is available on the
company's Web site at  http://www.dynegy.com .)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Dieterich at 
 rdieterich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        