-- `Golden Cross' Seen as S&P 500 Buy Signal: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2010-10-13T14:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/-golden-cross-seen-as-s-p-500-buy-signal-to-heed-chart-of-day.html
U.S. stocks are poised to send a buy
signal worth heeding, according to  John Spinello , chief
technical strategist at Jefferies Group Inc.  The indicator, known as a golden cross, is triggered when
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s average close for the previous
50 trading days surpassed the average for the last 200 days. The
50-day moving average was only about seven points away from this
milestone as of yesterday’s close.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the S&P 500’s performance since
October 2007, when the most recent bear market started, in the
top panel and compares the moving averages in the bottom panel.
Circles identify each golden cross and the reverse move, known
as a death cross.  During the past 20 years, buying the  S&P 500  at the time of
each  golden cross  and holding until the next death cross would
have yielded a 191 percent profit, according to data that
Spinello cited in a report today. Eight golden crosses happened
in the period, and the trade would have made money every time.  Results for the opposite strategy -- short selling the S&P
500 when  death crosses  were recorded and holding until the next
golden cross -- were far less lucrative, the report said. This
type of short sale would involve borrowing and selling index-
linked securities to profit from declines.  Since the latest death cross occurred on July 2, the index
has risen 14 percent rather than falling. The strategy was also
unprofitable in six of the previous eight instances, according
to Spinello’s data, and those losses would have limited short-
selling profits to 30 percent.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  