-- H&R Block Unit Default Swaps Reach a Record as Foreclosure Probes Spread
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-10-13T22:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/h-r-block-unit-swaps-reach-record-as-foreclosure-probes-spread.html
The cost to protect debt issued by a
financial unit of H&R Block Inc. soared to a record as spreading
investigations into paperwork related to home foreclosures
threaten to push losses back onto lenders.  Credit-default swaps on Block Financial LLC jumped 99.4
basis points to 515.9, CMA data show. Block Financial issues all
of its parent’s corporate public debt. Swaps on Residential
Capital LLC, GMAC Inc.’s mortgage-finance unit, climbed 126.7
basis points to 704.7, according to CMA.  H&R Block is “highly susceptible to mortgage put-back
headlines as they are smaller players, whereas the bigger banks
are better able to absorb the potential losses,”  Andrew Kuan ,
senior trader at  Primus Asset Management  in New York, said in an
e-mail, referring to the right of buyers to force repurchases of
loans that weren’t of the quality promised.  H&R Block, the biggest U.S. tax preparer, originated
mortgages through January 2008, with some sold to become part of
mortgage-backed securities. GMAC wrote down $2 billion in
Residential Capital mortgage assets in preparation for selling
them and set up a $500 million reserve tied to the servicing
unit that does billing and record-keeping for home loans.  The cost to protect debt issued by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
climbed after the first of the largest U.S. banks to report
earnings said profit exceeded analyst estimates as provisions
for bad loans shrank, offsetting an 11 percent decline in
revenue. Credit-default swaps on JPMorgan debt increased 5.3
basis points to 88.5, according to CMA.  Market Unimpressed  “It wasn’t as impressive as everybody was hoping,” Kuan
said.  The bank probably will pay an “incremental” sum to settle
foreclosure investigations, and there’s almost “no chance” the
bank made mistakes in seizing homes, Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon  said. The lender is in  talks  with state attorneys
general and will correct any errors tied to foreclosures, Dimon
said.  State law enforcement officials, consumer groups and
lawmakers have pressed mortgage firms to follow  Bank of America ,
the biggest U.S. lender, which last week curtailed foreclosures
nationwide to check whether faulty documents were used to
confiscate homes.  Contracts on financial companies were also pushed higher
because the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. board approved
interim guidelines yesterday on how it would liquidate complex
financial firms that collapse, according to Kuan.  “The introduction of regulation makes the markets jittery
because of the uncertainty,” he said.  Bank of America Rises  The FDIC released a  document  yesterday outlining how it may
treat creditor claims after stepping in as receiver of a
troubled firm. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act granted the FDIC authority to take control of
bankrupt or insolvent companies that threaten U.S. financial
stability.  Contracts on  Bank of America Corp.  added 18.1 basis points
to 180.5, according to CMA. Swaps on Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
climbed 2.9 basis points to 145.3 and those on Citigroup Inc.
added 4.4 basis points to 165.4, CMA data show.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
fell to the lowest since May, dropping 1 basis point to a mid-
price of 96 as of 6:16 p.m. in New York, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, ended May 3 at 90.4 basis
points. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  