-- La Nina Event Strengthens, May Bring Rain to Australia, Drought in Brazil
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-10-13T06:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/la-nina-event-strengthens-may-bring-rain-to-australia-drought-in-brazil.html
A La Nina event, which has brought
wet weather to Australia and Indonesia and drought to Brazil,
has strengthened, according to the Bureau of Meteorology.  Tropical Pacific Ocean temperatures had continued to cool
and trade winds were stronger than normal, the Melbourne-based
bureau said on its  website  today. The event, characterized by
colder-than-usual sea-surface temperatures, will persist into at
least early 2011, the bureau said.  Record rain is slowing sugar-cane harvesting in Australia,
the third-largest exporter, and raised concerns that it may
reduce wheat quality, even after bringing the best seasonal
conditions to some areas in more than a decade. Wet weather in
Indonesia, associated with the La Nina, has disrupted rubber
tapping and curbed tin output, according to producers.  “We have an event which is well established and expected
to continue,” Robyn Duell senior climatologist at the Bureau of
Meteorology said today by phone. “The odds are in favor of a
wetter-than-normal coming three months for much of northern and
eastern Australia.”  Wheat futures on the Chicago Board of Trade dropped 0.4
percent to $7.0725 at 4:48 p.m. Melbourne time. Raw sugar for
March delivery on ICE Futures U.S. in New York yesterday touched
an eight-month high of 27.70 cents per pound.  La Nina conditions may “possibly further strengthen”
during the next four to six months, the United Nations’ Geneva-
based World Meteorological Organization said in a statement
yesterday on its  website .  Rainfall Link  Still, the strength of the event didn’t necessarily
correlate with further increases in rain in Australia, once the
conditions for above-normal falls were established, Duell said.  La Nina occurs on average every three to five years and can
last nine to 12 months, according to the U.S.  National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration . The event can intensify
hurricane development in the Atlantic Ocean and bring dry
weather to parts of South America.  Corn production in Brazil, the third-largest producer, may
fall as much as 7.5 percent next year as below-average rainfall
pares yields and planted area, the Agriculture Ministry’s crop-
forecasting agency said Oct. 7.  Sugar output in Australia may drop by 4.5 percent to 4.2
million metric tons because of rain, Canegrowers said Oct. 4.
The rain has raised concerns that more heavy falls in Queensland
may crimp coal output, UBS AG said in an Oct. 7 report.  The rubber price in Indonesia surged to a record after
rains disrupted tapping,  Asril Sutan Amir , chairman of the
Rubber Association of Indonesia said yesterday. State-owned PT
Timah may produce 40,000 tons of tin this year compared with a
45,000-ton target, Corporate Secretary Abrun Abubakar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  