-- Abu Dhabi Shares Climb to May-High on Appeal for Riskier Assets; Oil Gains
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-10-13T12:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/abu-dhabi-shares-climb-to-may-high-on-appeal-for-riskier-assets-oil-gains.html
Abu Dhabi  shares  rose to the highest
since May as the U.S. Federal Reserve indicated it’s ready to
buy bonds to protect the economic recovery. The dollar extended
losses, bolstering the appeal of riskier assets and oil.  Emirates Telecommunications Corp.,  the biggest
telecommunications company in the Middle East by market value,
climbed for a third day as al-Bayan reported the company started
talks with banks to finance the purchase of a stake in  Mobile
Telecommunications Co.   First Gulf Bank PJSC,  the United Arab
Emirates’ lender owned by Abu Dhabi’s ruling family, jumped 2
percent. The  ADX General Index  increased 1.2 percent to
2,744.53, the highest since May 23, at the 2 p.m. close in Abu
Dhabi. Saudi stocks declined to the lowest in more than a month.  “Gains in global markets helped by the Fed announcement
have pushed up local shares,” said  Humam al-Shamaa , economic
adviser at Abu Dhabi-based Al-Fajer Securities LLC. “Stocks are
cheap in the U.A.E. and investors are taking an interest in
riskier assets as the dollar continues to decline.”  U.S. stocks rose yesterday after the Fed published the
minutes from its Sept. 21 meeting, showing that the central bank
was ready “before long” to increase purchases of Treasuries, a
tactic known as quantitative easing. The Fed also discussed
boosting inflation expectations as a way to prop up the economy.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  increased 0.4 percent yesterday,
while the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained 1.3 percent today.  Crude for November delivery jumped 1.3 percent to $82.70 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
on a weaker dollar. The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation
Council supply about a fifth of the world’s oil. The Dollar
Index, used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to track the
greenback against currencies including the euro, yen and Swiss
franc, slid as much as 0.5 percent to 76.972 today.  Saudi’s Drop  The 66 companies in Abu Dhabi’s benchmark index are valued
at 9.9 times  estimated earnings  after gaining 9.2 percent since
the end of June, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares
with 13.6 times for the  MSCI World Index  and 13 times for the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  declined 0.7 percent
after six of the kingdom’s publicly traded lenders reported
lower quarterly profits on higher loan provisions.  Saudi British Bank, the lender 40 percent-owned by HSBC
Holdings Plc, fell 1.6 percent after it said third-quarter
profit declined 26 percent. Arab National Bank, Saudi Arabia’s
sixth-largest publicly traded lender by assets, slumped the most
since May after net income dropped 45 percent.  Zain Climbs  Etisalat advanced 1.4 percent to 11.10 dirhams. The company
is considering bank loans, selling bonds or a combination of
both, al-Bayan reported, citing Chief Financial Officer Salem
Al-Sharhan. Etisalat won’t  need financing  from the government of
Abu Dhabi and is talking to local and international lenders, the
newspaper cited Al-Sharhan as saying.  Etisalat offered 1.7 dinars a share for a 46 percent stake
in Kuwait’s Zain.  Zain shares  climbed 2.9 percent to 1,420 fils,
the highest close since March 25. The company released earnings
after markets closed. First Gulf Bank increased to 15.65
dirhams, the highest since May 30.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  rose 0.2 percent. Dubai’s  DFM
General Index  and Qatar’s  QE Index  climbed 0.9 percent, Kuwait’s
 gauge  added 0.3 percent, Oman’s  MSM30 Index  gained 0.5 percent
and Bahrain’s  gauge  increased 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 