-- Africa Needs Soil `Revolution' to Improve Agriculture, Howard Buffett Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-10-13T22:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/africa-needs-soil-revolution-to-improve-agriculture-howard-buffett-says.html
A “Brown Revolution” to improve
soil quality is more important to African agriculture than new
seeds and fertilizers, said  Howard Buffett , who may succeed his
father,  Warren Buffett , as chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  Africans who farm plots of less than 3 acres (1.2 hectares)
will need tailored solutions that may be different from the
“Green Revolution” that boosted crop yields in Asia, Howard
Buffett, 55, said today in a speech at the World Food Prize
conference in Des Moines, Iowa.  “Food security is complicated, agriculture is
complicated,” said Buffett, who illustrated his speech with
anecdotes and photographs from interviews with African farmers.
“Simply distributing seeds and fertilizer, if that’s the plan,
will fail long term.”  Buffett, a Berkshire director since 1993, is an  ambassador
against hunger  for the United Nations’ World Food Program and
runs  the Howard G. Buffett Foundation , which aids subsistence
farming. Today, the foundation announced $13 million in grants
over four years to small farmers in El Salvador, Guatemala and
Nicaragua.  Global food costs are at their highest level since August
2008, when rising expenses for grain and other staples triggered
unrest in countries such as Mexico and Egypt. Prices have  risen
15 percent  since June, according to UN data.  Today, a commodity gauge including energy, gold, industrial
metals and crops reached the highest level since 2008. Last
week, the U.S. government cut its crop-production forecasts.  ‘Pretty Scary Thing’  Fluctuations in the cost of staples are “a pretty scary
thing” to poorer populations that spend almost all of their
income on food, Buffett said in an interview after his speech. A
stronger agriculture infrastructure will protect against higher
prices, he said.  “You have to start with the basics,” including
agricultural education, literacy and investment in roads and
storage necessary to bring farm goods to market, he said. Then,
farmers will be integrated into the global market as poor
countries become more self-sufficient and are able to export
cash crops, he said.  ‘Protracted’ Food Crisis  Twenty-two countries from Angola to Haiti are in a
“protracted” food crisis because of natural disasters, wars
and flawed governance, the United Nations said last week. The
number of hungry people in the world will fall this year to an
estimated 925 million from a record 1.02 billion undernourished
people in 2009, the first decline in 15 years, the UN said in
September.  Howard is the second of Warren Buffett’s three children and
the only one with a position on the Berkshire board.  Warren Buffett has committed more than 99 percent of his
wealth to charity and in June publicly challenged billionaires
to give away half their money. Most of Buffett’s fortune,
estimated by Forbes magazine at about $45 billion, will go to
the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The billionaire also funds
charities run by his children and one named after his deceased
first wife.  Warren Buffett, after  building Berkshire  through four
decades as chairman and chief executive officer, has made
succession plans for after his retirement or death. The  company
board , which includes Howard Buffett, will split the 80-year-old
CEO’s duties among more than one manager. Warren Buffett said in
2006 that his son, a farmer and  author , would safeguard
Berkshire as non-executive chairman.  Successors will take charge of a $200-billion company where
 composition  and culture is largely the expression of just one
person. Warren Buffett, Berkshire’s largest shareholder, plans
takeovers, selects  investments  and oversees CEOs who run the
company’s more than 70 subsidiaries. Berkshire hasn’t publicly
said who will fill the role of CEO and manage investments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 