-- Mahindra May Complete Acquiring Ssangyong Controlling Stake in Early 2011
-- B y   S o o k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-10-13T08:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/mahindra-may-complete-acquiring-ssangyong-controlling-stake-in-early-2011.html
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. ’s planned
acquisition of a controlling stake in Ssangyong Motor Co. may be
completed in February or March, boosting the Indian automaker’s
drive to expand sales outside its home market.  India’s largest maker of sport-utility vehicles hopes to
complete the acquisition within that timeframe if it signs the
final agreement with the Pyeongtaek, South Korea-based carmaker
by the end of this year,  Anand Mahindra , vice chairman of the
Mahindra & Mahindra, said at a forum in Seoul today. The company,
based in Mumbai, completed due diligence, he said, without
elaborating.  Mahindra & Mahindra was named the preferred bidder for the
bankruptcy-protected  Ssangyong Motor Co.  in August. The maker of
Scorpio SUVs is seeking to benefit from the South Korean
automaker’s technology and international sales network.  “We believe that when the global presence of Mahindra and
Ssangyong is combined, jointly we will be able to achieve more
success in the global market,” Mahindra said.  After reaching agreement with Mahindra, the two automakers
must seek approval from the creditors and court supervising the
bankruptcy, Ssangyong said.  Ssangyong  rose 0.4 percent to close at 9,120 won in Seoul
trading, giving it a market capitalization of 333 billion won
($297 million).  The acquirer will be the largest shareholder in Ssangyong
after purchasing new shares, sale arrangers Samjong KPMG
Advisory Inc. and Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a public notice
in May.  Ssangyong, formerly controlled by China’s  SAIC Motor Corp. ,
sought bankruptcy protection in February 2009 after higher oil
prices and the global recession squeezed sales of its mainstay
SUVs, resulting in a  cash  shortage.  The company sold 57,330 vehicles including 34,668 exports
in the first nine months of this year, compared with 20,591
total sales a year earlier, Ssangyong said in a regulatory
filing on Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ian Rowley at 
 irowley2@bloomberg.net  