-- Ahmadinejad's Lebanon Visit Shows Hezbollah Ascendant as Tensions Escalate
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-10-13T18:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/ahmadinejad-s-lebanon-visit-shows-hezbollah-ascendant-as-tensions-escalate.html
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
arrived in Beirut for his first official visit to Lebanon, a
trip that signals the growing strength of the Iran-backed  Shiite
Muslim Hezbollah movement .  The Iranian leader met today with President  Michel Suleiman 
and later held talks with Prime Minister  Saad Hariri  and
Parliament Speaker  Nabih Berri , a Hezbollah ally.  “Your visit is important to friends, and became more
important thanks to our enemies,” Berri  told Ahmadinejad on
arrival, according to the Shiite group’s television channel, Al-
Manar. Ahmadinejad said that “enemies become more savage when
they see friends with each other,” the station reported.  Thousands of Lebanese welcomed the Iranian leader after he
left Beirut’s airport, and pictures of Ahmadinejad with words of
welcome in Farsi and Arabic lined the road from the airport.
Ahmadinejad’s visit highlights the difficulties faced by the
U.S.-backed Hariri, who is confronting a growing challenge from
Hezbollah a year after he brought the Shiite group into his
national-unity government.  “Hezbollah is brandishing its ties with Iran in the face
of the U.S. and Israel, not to mention Arab regimes,” said  Amal Saad-Ghorayeb , author of a forthcoming book, “The Iran
Connection: The Alliance with Syria, Hezbollah and Hamas.” “It
therefore signals the movement’s empowerment.”  Hariri Killing  Hezbollah and its allies are threatening to block budget
funds for a United Nations probe into the 2005 killing of former
Lebanese premier  Rafiq Hariri , Saad’s father, amid speculation
members of the group may be among those indicted. Hezbollah says
the UN tribunal is biased, has been misled by “false
witnesses,” and should be abolished.  The budget deadlock comes as Lebanon seeks to reduce debt
that reached 147 percent of gross domestic product last year.
That’s one of the world’s heaviest debt burdens, and should be
addressed by increasing tax revenue and reducing subsidies to
the power industry, the International Monetary Fund said in a
 report  last week.  Still, the economy has performed “remarkably well” during
the global financial crisis, partly due to the “more stable
political environment” provided by the Hariri coalition, the
IMF said. It forecasts growth of 8 percent this year, from 9
percent in 2009.  Ending Occupation  Hezbollah, backed by Syria as well as Shiite-ruled Iran, is
classified as a terrorist organization by the U.S. and Israel.
It won popularity in Lebanon by helping force Israel’s army to
withdraw from the country in 2000, ending an 18-year occupation.  Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman  Yigal Palmor  has called
the visit “particularly destabilizing” and said it’s part of
Iranian efforts at “expansion and confrontation.”  Philip J. Crowley , a State Department spokesman, said the
U.S. doesn’t think Ahmadinejad’s plan to travel close to the
Israeli border is a “good idea.”  Hezbollah fought a monthlong war with Israel in 2006,
during which it fired thousands of rockets at the Jewish state.
Hezbollah has defied a UN Security Council resolution calling
for disarmament, saying it needs to defend the country from
Israel, which invaded in 1978, 1982 and 2006. Hezbollah and its
allies also clashed with other Lebanese groups in May 2008,
leaving at least 80 people dead after its gunmen took over parts
of Beirut.  Iranian Money  “We want to tell the whole world that we’re proud of our
friendships and ties with resisting countries,” Hezbollah’s
deputy leader,  Naim Qasem , said this week.  Iranian money helped rebuild the southern suburbs of
Beirut, which are a stronghold of Hezbollah and were targeted by
Israel during the 2006 war, Nasrallah said on Oct. 9.  Ahmadinejad attended a rally held for him in a stadium at
the southern Dahiyeh suburb of Beirut, where he was welcomed by
thousands of supporters waiving Iranian and Hezbollah flags.
Hezbollah Secretary General  Hassan Nasrallah  welcomed the
Iranian leader, via video link for security reasons.  “The West can’t put up with the Iranian president because
he says the truth and declares that Israel is an illegitimate
state and must disappear,” Nasrallah said to a cheering crowd.  Ahmadinejad said, “Lebanon is the cradle of the free, a
school of resistance and perseverance against the tyrants of
this world.”  The Iranian president tomorrow will visit the southern
villages of Qana and Bint Jbeil, on the border with Israel.  Domestic Purpose  The visit serves a domestic purpose for Ahmadinejad, who’s
trying to “shift the focus from his internal failures,” said
 Josh Landis , director of the Center for Middle East Studies at
the University of Oklahoma in Norman.  “Iran’s economy is in chaos,” Landis said. “Lebanon is
one of the few successes he can point to, it’s an exception.
Hezbollah is in the ascendancy and Iran has helped it.”  Iran’s economy probably grew by 1 to 2 percent this year,
slowed by weak domestic demand, the IMF  said last month .  The two countries today signed agreements to cooperate on
trade, energy, health, agriculture, telecommunications,
education, water, the environment and tourism.  “There are no limits to cooperation between our two
countries,” which have “common interests and common enemies,”
Ahmadinejad said in a joint press conference with Suleiman. Iran
stands “side by side” with Lebanon and supports national unity
in the country, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 