-- Air Products Plans World's Longest Hydrogen Pipeline on U.S. Gulf Coast
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-10-13T20:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/air-products-plans-world-s-largest-hydrogen-pipeline-along-u-s-gulf-coast.html
Air Products and Chemicals Inc ., the
world’s biggest hydrogen producer, plans to create the longest
hydrogen pipeline network by building a 180-mile (290-kilometer)
connector between pipelines in Louisiana and Texas.  The connector will unite output from more than 20 plants
capable of supplying more than 1 billion cubic feet (28.3
million cubic meters) of hydrogen a day to oil refiners and
chemical makers from the Houston Ship Channel to New Orleans,
Air Products said today in a statement. The network will be 600
miles long when completed in mid-2012.  Chief Executive Officer  John McGlade  is expanding hydrogen
production as he tries to make Air Products the largest U.S.
industrial gas company with a $5.5 billion hostile takeover bid
for packaged-gas distributor  Airgas Inc . Hydrogen sales are
rising as clean-air regulations increase sales to oil refiners
that use the gas to make cleaner-burning low-sulfur fuels.  “Air Products’ investment in this pipeline extension
demonstrates our hydrogen market leadership and confidence in
our Gulf Coast growth opportunities,”  Steve Jones , general
manager of tonnage gases, said in the statement.  The company is in permitting discussions with regulators in
advance of an application, said  Art George , a spokesman. Several
pipeline routes are being evaluated, he said. The Allentown,
Pennsylvania-based company isn’t disclosing financial details,
he said.  Air Products also supplies hydrogen through pipelines in
California, the Netherlands, and the Canadian provinces of
Ontario and Alberta, the company said on its  website .  Air Products  rose 33 cents to $82.91 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained
2.3 percent this year.  Hydrogen also is used in the manufacture of semiconductors,
window glass and hydrogenated fats and oils such as margarine.  Praxair Inc. is currently the largest producer of
industrial gases in the Americas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net . 