-- Aker Solutions Falls After Reversing Longview Profits
-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 2010-10-13T15:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/aker-solutions-drops-after-reporting-loss-at-u-s-longview-power-project.html
Aker Solutions  ASA, Norway’s biggest
maker of oil platforms and equipment, fell in Oslo trading after
saying it will reverse booked profits from its Longview coal-
fired power plant project in the U.S. in the third quarter.  Aker Solutions dropped 6.15 kroner, or 6.9 percent, to
82.40 kroner at 5:30 p.m. local time. The stock has gained 9.2
percent this year, after surging 67.7 percent last year.  The process and construction business area “will report
slightly negative earnings before interests, tax, depreciation
and amortization,” the company said yesterday in a statement.
The $654 million contract was awarded to the company in 2007 as
part of a $1.1 billion project with a unit of Siemens AG.  “Yet another skeleton,” analysts including  Fiona Maclean 
at BofA Merrill Lynch said in a note, cutting their
recommendation to “underperform” from “neutral.” The
“release once again highlights what we regard as the perennial
problems Aker Solutions has faced across the business over the
last few years.”  SEB Enskilda analyst  Terje Fatnes  downgraded the stock to
“sell” from “hold” while Carnegie ASA cut its 2010 earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization estimate by
4 percent “on the back of the Longview profit warning,”
according to an e-mailed note.  Delays, Costs  The project is scheduled to be completed in the middle of
next year, Lysaker-based Aker Solutions said. The development is
delayed and costs have risen partly because of force majeure
events, project changes, and third-party actions in furnishing
engineering services, equipment and materials, the company said.  “There is uncertainty with regard to remaining work and
the financial outcome of the project,”  Oeyvind Eriksen , the
company’s executive chairman said in the statement. “In light
of this we will reverse profits that have been booked.”  Geir Arne Drangeid , a company spokesman, declined to be
specific about the numbers, citing considerations to clients and
partners in the project.  “If you go back and look at quarterly reports you will see
that the P&C business area would typically produce a profit,
Ebitda, of 110 to 140 million kroner,” he said. “What we now
say is that the third quarter number will be a small minus. The
difference between the small minus that we are now informing
about and the typical results would then be the number for the
reverse profit.”  In August, the company agreed to separate the process &
construction unit, which accounted for 11 percent of Ebitda in
2009, from the rest of the company. This could be done through a
stock listing or a sale by the end of the year, Eriksen said at
the time, declining to give an estimated value for the unit.  Yesterday’s announcement “makes a potential
divestment/sale more difficult,” analysts including  Truls Olsen 
at Fearnley Fonds said in a note.  Chief Executive Officer  Simen Lieungh  left the company in
June in agreement with the board. Aker Solutions in August
reported second-quarter net income fell to 445 million kroner
from 772 million kroner a year ago.  “If the Longview profit warning is the only skeleton in
the closet and profitability stabilizes at current levels, Aker
Solutions stands out as a bargain,” Carnegie analyst  Frederik Lunde  said in a note yesterday. “Given the depressed valuation,
we believe that neither earnings growth nor strong order intake
is needed to support Aker Solutions’ share price.”  Lunde has an “outperform” rating on the stock.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Meera Bhatia at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  