-- Malaysia Marine Said to Receive 15 Times Bids for Its Initial Share Sale
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-10-13T07:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/malaysia-marine-gets-bids-from-fund-managers-for-15-times-stock-on-offer.html
Malaysia Marine & Heavy Engineering
Holdings Bhd. , a rig- and shipbuilder, received bids for more
than 15 times the number of shares allocated for institutions in
Kuala Lumpur’s biggest initial public offer so far this year,
three people familiar with the matter said.  The bids were at 3.80 ringgit per share, which was at the
top of its indicative price range, said the people who declined
to be identified as they weren’t authorized to speak to the
media. Malaysia Marine is a unit of MISC Bhd. and one of two
companies linked to state oil and gas company  Petroliam Nasional
Bhd.  that will be listed in the Southeast Asian nation this year.  Malaysia Marine aims to raise as much as 2.04 billion
ringgit ($658 million), according to its prospectus. At the top
of the range, this would surpass  Sunway Real Estate Investment
Trust’s  IPO in July. A proposed IPO by Petronas Chemicals Bhd.,
Petroliam Nasional’s petrochemicals unit, may be even bigger,
raising as much as $4 billion in November, two people said on
Oct. 12.  “Reputation-wise, Petronas has a strong name, there’s no
denying,” said  Pankaj Kumar , who oversees about $560 million as
chief investment officer of Kurnia Insurans Malaysia Bhd.
“They’re huge. Definitely people can’t ignore it.”  Petronas Chemicals’ IPO would be the biggest in the
Southeast Asian nation, surpassing  Maxis Bhd. ’s $3.3 billion
sale last year.  Stocks Surge  Malaysia’s benchmark  stock index  this week touched its
highest level since January 2008, underscoring rising investor
appetite as the nation rebounds from last year’s recession.  Malaysia Marine’s institutional offer is scheduled to close
tomorrow when it prices the shares, according to its prospectus.
The company set an indicative range of between 3.60 ringgit and
3.80 ringgit per share, two people with knowledge of the sale
said on Oct. 5.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Maybank Investment Bank Bhd. and
Credit Suisse Group AG are managing its share sale. Malaysia
Marine spokesman M. Adnan Harun declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg by phone today.  The  company , based in Kuala Lumpur, intends to use some of
the proceeds to upgrade its Pasir Gudang heavy engineering
shipyard in the country’s southern state of Johor, according to
the prospectus issued on Oct. 6. The money raised will also
partly finance its investment in Turkmenistan’s Kiyanly yard,
which it manages for Petronas Carigali Sdn., it said.  State Divestment  The listings follow a call by Prime Minister  Najib Razak 
for state-owned enterprises to accelerate asset sales. Petronas
already has four units traded on the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange.
In addition to MISC, it has stakes in Petronas Dagangan Bhd.,
Petronas Gas Bhd. and KLCC Property Holdings Bhd.  The company will decide next year whether to sell shares in
more units, Chief Executive Officer  Shamsul Azhar Abbas  said Oct.
4.  A total of 22 petrochemicals-related companies have been
combined to form Petronas Chemicals, according to a draft share-
sale document released on Sept. 7. Profit at the unit fell 25
percent to 2.59 billion ringgit in the year to March 31 from
3.45 billion a year earlier, while sales dropped 1.3 percent to
12.2 billion ringgit, the prospectus said.  “So far Petronas has been delivering, no-one can fault
them,” said  Lye Thim Loong , who helps manage about $500 million
at Avenue Invest Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “With that kind of
pedigree, you should hold some of the shares of Petronas
Chemicals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at   jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 