-- Allen Stanford Loses Bid for $100 Million of Lloyd's Directors Insurance
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-14T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/allen-stanford-loses-bid-for-100-million-of-lloyd-s-directors-insurance.html
R. Allen Stanford  can’t tap into
$100 million of Lloyd’s of London directors and officers
insurance coverage to pay lawyers to defend him against charges
that he ran a $7 billion investment-fraud scheme.  A federal judge in Houston concluded it is more likely
than not that Stanford “knowingly committed acts of money
laundering” involving the use of corporate funds and that those
actions should have been disclosed to investors and regulators.
That violated the terms of the insurance policies and voided
coverage, U.S. District Judge  Nancy Atlas  said.  “The court does not reach the issue of whether the
evidence supports a finding that Stanford personally engaged in
criminal conduct,” Atlas in her 45-page ruling, which followed
a four-day trial in August.  Stanford and three former top executives at Houston-based
Stanford Financial Group were indicted in June 2009 for
allegedly swindling investors who bought certificates of deposit
issued by Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  The executives, who deny any wrongdoing, have claimed that
they can’t afford to pay defense attorneys without the Lloyd’s
proceeds. Their assets were frozen earlier by court order when
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued them in
February 2009.  Lloyd’s underwriters, after initially agreeing to honor the
policies, denied coverage after former Stanford Group Chief
Financial Officer  James M. Davis  pleaded guilty last year to
mail fraud, obstructing the SEC proceeding and conspiracy to
commit securities fraud.  Stanford’s criminal trial is scheduled to start on Jan. 24
before U.S. District Judge  David Hittner  in Houston.  ‘Not Unexpected’  “It is disappointing, but not unexpected,” Stanford’s
lawyer,  Robert S. Bennett  of Houston, said of yesterday’s ruling
in a phone interview.  Bennett, who is the fourth lawyer to head Stanford’s
criminal defense team, said it was unlikely he will appeal the
ruling. He said he will apply to be assigned as Stanford’s
court-appointed counsel, for which he would be paid by the
government to defend his client at a rate of $125 an hour.  In court filings last month, Lloyd’s said Bennett has been
charging $1,000 an hour. The underwriters had paid about
$14 million for the legal defense of Stanford and the other
criminal case defendants through September, according to those
records.  “The most important thing is that when we get to the
criminal case, it is going to be on a different standard, and
we’ll get to fully and completely present the evidence,”
Bennett said.  Other Attorneys  Two other attorneys,  Dick DeGuerin  and Kent Schaffer of
Houston, resigned from Stanford’s case after disputes with the
financier, who was also briefly represented by a federal public
defender.  Stanford, 60, who’s been in federal custody since June
2009, has repeatedly lost bids for his release. He complained
that he was assaulted in prison and also argued that he can’t
adequately assist in the preparation of his trial defense.  The Lloyd’s policy set forth a five-part definition of
money laundering, including “the acquisition, use or possession
of criminal property,” according to the ruling.  Lloyd’s lawyers asserted that the funds from Stanford bank
CD purchasers, obtained by misleading the investors, were
criminal property. Atlas agreed.  ‘Very Stylized Definition’  “This was a very stylized definition of money
laundering,”  Kevin LaCroix , a directors and officers insurance
consultant, said in a telephone interview. He said the Lloyd’s
policy exclusion was unlike any other money laundering clause
he’d seen in his 27-year career as an attorney and insurance
expert.  LaCroix is the author of the  D&O Diary  weblog and a
Beachwood, Ohio-based partner in Bloomfield, Connecticut-based
OakBridge Insurance Services, which advises businesses on
management liability coverage.  “It’s a highly unusual exclusion,” LaCroix said of the
Lloyd’s clause, because it allowed for a civil determination of
potential wrongdoing prior to the criminal trial. “It’s a very
policy specific, very fact-specific determination.”  While Atlas applied a more-likely-than-not threshold of
proof in the insurance case, prosecutors at the criminal trial
must prove the defendants’ guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.  Houston criminal defense attorney  Joel Androphy , who has
been tracking Stanford’s cases, said Atlas’s determination that
the financier violated money-laundering exclusions in his
insurance policy will have little effect on his criminal trial
or any defendant’s inclination to negotiate a plea deal.  ‘Different Standard’  “That insurance case was tried to a different standard; it
wasn’t even a jury’s verdict,” Androphy said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “That is only the law in Judge Atlas’s
courtroom. It doesn’t have to be adopted in any other
courtroom.”  Jurors, the attorney said, are often more open-minded than
judges. “They’ll be trying the criminal case to a jury, not a
judge,” said Androphy.  Atlas yesterday refused to postpone enforcement of her
order pending an appeal, which means defense lawyers won’t be
paid for any further work on their clients’ behalf unless her
ruling is reversed.  Lloyd’s lawyer McNeel Lane, a partner in San Antonio for
Washington-based Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld LLP, declined
to comment in an e-mail, citing his client’s policy of not
discussing pending litigation.  Stanford’s former chief investment officer,  Laura Pendergest-Holt , reached a settlement with Lloyd’s in August
that will provide undisclosed compensation to her attorneys. Her
agreement won’t be affected by yesterday’s decision.  Co-Defendants’ Coverage  The two other criminal defendants, former Stanford Chief
Accounting Officer  Gilbert Lopez  and ex-global comptroller  Mark Kuhrt , won’t be able to access the policies for their defense.  Kuhrt and Lopez knew, or should have known, that portfolio
performance figures they were receiving from Davis for entry
into the corporate books “were fictitious or at the very least,
were not accurate reflections” of the investments’ performance,
Atlas said.  Jack Zimmermann , Lopez’s criminal defense attorney who also
represented Kuhrt in the insurance case, said in a telephone
interview that defense lawyers are reviewing whether to appeal
the ruling.  “It was an extremely unusual procedural matter where we
had a civil case, with similar if not identical facts, come in
before the criminal case,’’ he said.  Because criminal charges
are pending, “we really couldn’t put on a full case,’’ he said.  The insurance case is Laura Pendergest-Holt v. Certain
Underwriters at Lloyd’s of London, 4:09-cv-03712, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 