-- Dubai-Owned Alliance Medical Said to Get Takeover Interest From BC, CVC
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2010-10-13T19:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/alliance-medical-said-to-receive-takeover-interest-from-bc-cvc-euromedic.html
Alliance Medical Ltd., the U.K.-
based medical-imaging company being sold by Dubai International
Capital LLC, may attract bids from BC Partners Ltd., CVC Capital
Partners Ltd. and Euromedic International, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter.  Alliance Medical’s adviser, Blackstone Group LP, have asked
that initial offers be made this week, said the people who
declined to be identified as the details are private. Hugh
Osmond’s Horizon Acquisition Company Plc has also expressed
interest in Alliance, another person said.  Blackstone values the company at between 300 million pounds
($475 million) and 340 million pounds, a person familiar with
the matter said Aug. 25. Dubai International, a private-equity
investor and fund manager owned by Dubai’s ruler, paid about 600
million pounds for Alliance in 2007, the person said.  Alliance’s Medical’s board agreed to consider a sale to
help repay debt following a demand by senior lenders, a person
with knowledge of the matter said Aug. 25. Lenders are also
working on an alternative debt-restructuring proposal to the one
suggested by Dubai International and junior mezzanine lenders on
July 15, the person said.  Fiona Micallef-Eynaud, a spokeswoman for Dubai
International in London, and Alliance Medical spokesman  Justin Griffiths  declined to comment. Officials at BC, CVC and
Blackstone in London also declined to comment.  Euromedic is a venture between buyout firm Montagu Private
Equity LLP and Bank of America Corp.’s private-equity fund,
according to Montagu’s website. A Montagu spokeswoman in London
declined to comment.  Alliance earlier this month hired  Philippe Houssiau  as
chief executive officer as it seeks to restructure debt.
Houssiau, who joined Oct. 1, is meeting with investors before
the expiration of a debt-standstill agreement in November. Loan
holders agreed to not enforce debt covenants since May to give
Warwick, England-based Alliance time to reach an agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brett Foley  in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ; 