-- America Movil May Boost Buybacks, Dividends on Wireless-Fueled Cash Surge
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-10-13T20:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/america-movil-may-boost-buybacks-dividends-on-wireless-fueled-cash-surge.html
America Movil SAB , Latin America’s
largest wireless carrier, will probably boost share buybacks and
dividends during the next year because the company is
accumulating cash faster than it can spend it, analysts say.  Cash and equivalents quintupled in the first half to 155
billion pesos ($12.5 billion) as the company issued debt and its
mobile-phone customers spent more on phone calls and Web
surfing. America Movil will add more than $9 billion in free
cash flow a year, said  Andrew Campbell , an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Sao Paulo.  “Most of the cash will be coming back to shareholders
either through a dividend or buyback,” said Campbell, who
forecasts America Movil’s cash total to climb to 198 billion
pesos by the end of the year. “The company should have quite a
lot of flexibility with pretty much all the cash they generate
going forward.”  America Movil, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim ,
doesn’t have many other places to spend the money, said  Gray Powell , an analyst at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York. The Mexico
City-based carrier has already built third-generation wireless
networks, capable of Web access and video downloads, in more
than 70 percent of its markets and hasn’t disclosed concrete
plans to move to fourth-generation technology, he said.  The company bought control of Telmex Internacional SAB in
June to fill in most of the holes in its coverage in Latin
America, adding landline phone networks, cable-TV and Internet
lines across South America.  ‘Good Opportunity’  The Telmex deal is one reason for America Movil’s growing
pile of cash. The company raised $8.7 billion this year by
 issuing debt , in part to have money on hand to pay Telmex
shareholders who could opt to receive either cash or stock. Most
investors chose stock, so America Movil paid only 26.8 billion
pesos of the 319 billion peso purchase price in cash.  America Movil, with 211 million mobile-phone clients, is
also benefiting from the economics of a fixed-cost business.
Once a wireless operator’s network is built and overhead is
covered, any additional revenue is largely profit.  In the Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay region, for example,
customers’ monthly bills rose 10 percent to 35 Argentine pesos
($8.85) in the second quarter, while earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization climbed 35 percent to 946
million Argentine pesos.  “There’s a good opportunity for their payments back to
shareholders to increase in the next 12 months,” said Powell,
who  recommends buying  America Movil shares.  Buybacks Vs. Dividends  America Movil gained 45 centavos, or 1.3 percent, to 34.92
pesos at 4 p.m. New York time in Mexico City trading, the
highest closing price since April 2008. It’s gained 13 percent
this year, compared with an 8.3 percent increase in Mexico’s
benchmark IPC  index .  Buybacks offer more flexibility for the company because
they can be reduced if needed without drawing the same ire from
investors that a dividend cut would, said Campbell, who has
recommended buying  America Movil’s  U.S.-listed stock since
February 2007. The shares have returned 20 percent since then.
Repurchases also don’t carry the tax liabilities that dividends
do, especially for large holders like Slim, he said.  The company spent 13.3 billion pesos on buying its stock in
the third quarter, and it held an additional 47.9 billion pesos
in a fund designated for buybacks, according to regulatory
filings.  Special Dividends  In an e-mailed statement, America Movil said it has paid
special  dividends , beyond the regular payouts shareholders
approve every year, twice in the last 10 years. The company
declined to comment on whether it will offer a special dividend
or accelerate repurchases this year.  America Movil shareholders approved in April a total of 32
centavos (2.6 cents) a share in dividends, split into two
payments. That compares to regular dividend payments of 30
centavos last year, 26 centavos in 2008 and 20 centavos in 2007.  In December 2009, America Movil also issued a special
dividend of 50 centavos. That followed a special dividend of 1
peso a share in November 2007.  When the company reports earnings on Oct. 27, it should
show net debt of about $14 billion and  earnings  before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of $20 billion for the last
12 months, said Campbell. That’s a debt-to-earnings ratio of
around 0.7, below the company’s target of 1. Net debt is
calculated by subtracting cash from total debt, so spending cash
would boost the ratio.  100% Return  Over the next five years, America Movil should be able to
offer a return of about 100 percent of its market value to
shareholders through dividends and repurchases while maintaining
the debt to earnings ratio of 1,  James Rivett , an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in a research note in August.
Rivett declined to comment.  The company has few holes to fill in its coverage of the
Latin America. America Movil’s Brazilian unit  Embratel
Participacoes SA  spent $1.97 billion Oct. 7 to add preferred
shares in Net Servicos de Comunicacao SA, Brazil’s biggest
cable-TV operator. America Movil has also expressed interest in
entering Costa Rica through a planned auction of wireless
airwaves, the nation’s telecommunications agency said in May.  “What’s left to do, for the most part, tends to be quite
small,” Campbell said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  