-- Americans See Children's Future Dim in Poll as 50% Pessimistic
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2010-10-13T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/americans-see-children-s-future-dim-in-poll-as-50-pessimistic.html
Americans say they have weathered
the worst of the longest recession in seven decades, even as
they are pessimistic about prospects for their retirement
years, according to a Bloomberg National Poll.  Three in five respondents to the Oct. 7-10 poll say their
economic condition has improved recently or they are confident
it will get better. One in three say things have gotten worse
or aren’t likely to improve anytime soon.  “I see some hope, but not a lot,” says poll respondent
Brian Ridlon, 34, an out-of-work resident of Green Mountain,
Arkansas, who wants to learn how to become a barber. “There
are some avenues to improve yourself, but we need more.”  What  optimism  there is about the immediate future doesn’t
carry over to the longer term. Pluralities of those polled say
they’re not hopeful they will have enough money in retirement
and expect they will have to keep working to make up the
difference. More than 50 percent aren’t confident or are just
somewhat confident their children will have better lives than
they have.  “I don’t think they’ve got a chance,” says Brian Rich, a
65-year-old retiree with three children in their 20s who lives
in Gloucester, Massachusetts. “I’m very angry at what’s going
on in this country. Change is being forced upon us.”  A year after the official end of the recession, economic
growth has slowed, slipping to a 1.7 percent annual pace in the
second quarter from 3.7 percent in the first and 5 percent in
the final three months of 2009.  Unemployment  stood at 9.6
percent in September, down from a 26-year high of 10.1 percent
in October 2009 while still above the 5 percent rate that
prevailed at the start of the recession almost three years ago.  Long-Term Pain  “The worst is behind us, but the pain will be felt for a
long time,”  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of Omaha,
Nebraska-based  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , said in recorded
comments released yesterday at a conference in Israel. “We’re
inching forward, we’re not galloping forward.”  Americans are responding to the tough times by conserving
cash and making do with less over the past couple of years,
according to the poll.  Almost half say they’ve started using coupons and changed
where they shop for groceries and other household items to save
money. Forty-four percent have cut regular household expenses,
such as cable television, telephone or Internet service. Fifty-
four percent have put off a major needed purchase, such as a
car, started doing some chores or home repairs on their own, or
figured out ways to drive less. In all, 85 percent say they
have taken some step to cut costs.  Blaming Wall Street  Wall Street financial firms and the mortgage industry get
the most blame for the country’s economic weakness. More than
three-quarters of the 1,000 Americans polled say the former has
hurt the economy, while more than 80 percent fault the latter.
Former President  George W. Bush  also comes in for criticism,
with three times as many people saying he hurt the economy as
those who believe he helped it.  Americans are more ambivalent about the roles that
President  Barack Obama  and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  have played, with those surveyed about evenly split
between whether the two men have helped or hurt the economy.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  comes off worse, with
34 percent saying he’s had a negative effect on the economy
versus 20 percent who say his impact was positive. The rest of
the respondents aren’t sure.  Poll respondents disapprove of the government’s Troubled
Asset Relief Program, or TARP, which was used to provide
financial help to banks and automobile companies. Pluralities
of more than 40 percent of those surveyed say TARP will weaken
the economy rather than strengthen it.  Angry at Bailouts  “TARP has come to be short-hand for bailouts, and while
people struggle to pay their mortgages, buy groceries and hold
onto their jobs, bailouts make people mad,” says J.  Ann Selzer , president of Des Moines, Iowa-based  Selzer & Co. , which
conducted the poll. “They do not see those bailouts leading to
jobs, as they do the stimulus programs.”  Geithner argues that the TARP program, in which the
government committed more than $500 billion at its peak,
deserves credit for helping avert an economic collapse and that
it probably will end up costing taxpayers less than $50
billion.  Americans are more favorably inclined to the $814 billion
stimulus package that Obama and congressional Democrats pushed
through in 2009. Some 43 percent say it will lead to a stronger
economy, versus 26 percent who see it weakening growth.  Small-Business Aid  Separate legislation that Obama signed in September to
help small businesses with tax breaks and access to credit
received even higher marks in the poll. More than 60 percent
say it will strengthen the economy; less than 15 percent think
the opposite.  Still, the stimulus spending, coupled with the loss of tax
revenue from the recession, has helped expand the federal
government’s  budget deficit .  That’s got Americans worried. More than half of those
contacted describe the  deficit  as dangerously out of control
and a threat to the economic future of the U.S. Less than 5
percent think it will cause no lasting harm.  “How much waste and fraud is going on makes you sick,”
says Joe Strelnik, a 55-year-old retiree in Euclid, Ohio. “Our
children and our grandchildren are going to be paying for it.”  The shortfall between spending and revenue was $1.29
trillion in the year that ended Sept. 30, down from $1.42
trillion the previous year, according to the Congressional
Budget Office. At 8.9 percent of the nation’s gross domestic
product, the 2010  deficit  was the second biggest since 1945.  Burden on Rich  Americans overwhelmingly want the wealthy to carry more of
the burden of putting the government’s fiscal house in order.
Sixty-five percent say lawmakers should consider  raising taxes 
on the rich back to where they were 10 years ago.  They also want to consider measures that would fall more
broadly on all Americans such as cuts in spending on roads,
bridges and public transport, curtailment of extended
unemployment benefits and reduced subsidies for college loans.  Almost three in five say privatization of the Medicare
program, with assistance for low-income seniors, should be
considered when lawmakers discuss how to close the budget gap.
A majority, though, oppose raising the age at which people can
start receiving  Medicare  benefits.  Americans are narrowly against lawmakers considering
Social Security privatization as a means to reduce the deficit.
Forty-eight percent say that should be off the table versus 44
percent who want the possibility looked at. Almost three in
four favor lawmakers studying removal of the Social Security
tax cap so wages over $107,000 a year are taxable.  More than 55 percent of those surveyed under the age of 65
say they aren’t confident they’ll get the same benefits from
Social Security and Medicare that seniors are getting today.  “I have no confidence in Social Security,” says Mark
Moreth, 47, a resident of Orange, California, who is out of
work after breaking his back earlier in the year. “All the
years I’m putting money into they’re spending it for other
things.”  The poll of 1,000 adults has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rich Miller  in Washington 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  