-- Apple Summoned by Korea Lawmakers Over IPhone Queries
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-10-13T10:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/apple-official-to-testify-at-s-korea-parliament-on-oct-21.html
Apple Inc.  was summoned by South
Korean lawmakers to answer questions about the company’s  iPhone -
service policy amid complaints from local users, parliamentary
officials said.  Farrel Farhoudi, senior director for Apple’s iPhone
service, will appear in parliament on Oct. 21 at the request of
lawmakers led by You Won Il, You’s assistant Kim Se Ho said by
telephone today.  Steve Dowling , a spokesman for Cupertino,
California-based Apple, declined to comment.  South Korean buyers of the iPhone have complained that
Apple mostly gives refurbished used phones to customers with
faulty devices, instead of providing new handsets, free repairs
or refunds, Kim said. Apple’s local service warranty gives
buyers the four options when they have trouble within 14 days of
purchase, he said.  “The executive’s appearance is to prevent bigger noise in
the nation that could happen if he doesn’t,” said Kim Do Han,
an analyst at Samsung Securities Co. “The move in Korea implies
that the company may become a bit more sensitive to the voice of
customers in the future.”  A testimony by Farhoudi may be the first such instance of a
multinational company’s executive facing lawmakers in Seoul in
at least three years, Jang Man Su, an official at the
parliament’s National Policy committee, said by telephone.  Replacements in Japan  Apple has sold more than 1 million iPhones in South Korea
since the first model went on sale at the end of 2009, according
to  KT Corp. , the exclusive provider of the device in the nation.  Earlier this year, Apple said it will offer replacements of
iPod Nano music players in Japan that overheat, following calls
by the government to take measures to prevent the devices from
catching fire.  Lawmakers asked to hear from an executive at Apple’s
headquarters after Steve Park, a spokesman in Seoul, wasn’t able
to provide sufficient information, Kim said.  Those summoned to testify can be sued if they don’t comply,
even if they don’t reside in Korea, he said. Na Seok Gyoon, a KT
executive, will also be present, Kim said. The hearing is part
of the annual parliamentary audit, which began Oct. 4.  Yonhap reported earlier, citing people it didn’t identify,
that Apple agreed to let Farhoudi testify.  “It’s just a one-time gesture,” said Kim Young Joon, an
analyst at LIG Investment & Securities Co. “There’s no reason
to believe that the company will provide Korea with better
services as there are bigger market elsewhere and any change
locally could trigger same requests from other countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jun Yang  in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 