-- Reserve Bank's Marcus Says No Disagreement South Africa Rand `Overvalued'
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-13T19:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/marcus-says-no-disagreement-that-south-african-rand-is-overvalued-.html
South Africa’s Reserve Bank Governor
 Gill Marcus  said there is “no disagreement that the rand is
overvalued,” though it isn’t clear how to address the issue.  The rand’s appreciation is being driven in part by the
dollar’s weakness, Marcus said in a speech given at a charity
function in Johannesburg today.  Near-zero interest rates in the U.S., Japan and the euro
zone have fueled demand for high-yielding assets in emerging
markets, boosting currencies, including South Africa’s rand,
which has rallied 13 percent against the dollar since June 1.
The stronger rand has hurt exports, while curbing inflation,
enabling the Reserve Bank to cut its benchmark interest  rate 
eight times since December 2008 to 6 percent.  “There’s no question that it hurts many areas of the
economy,” Marcus said. “There is no disagreement that the rand
is overvalued. The question is what to do about it.”  While the central bank has been buying foreign currency to
build  reserves , the impact is limited because the average daily
trade in the rand is “huge,” at about $24 billion, Marcus
said. South Africa is also more reliant on foreign portfolio
inflows than other emerging markets because of the country’s low
savings rate, she said.  With interest rates in developed markets expected to remain
low, the “search for yield” will continue, Marcus said.  Appreciating currencies in emerging markets “may be a
long-term phenomenon,” she said. “What does that mean for
us?”  The rand’s gains are reducing the competitiveness of
exports, undermining the economy’s recovery.  Manufacturing 
output rose an annual 5.3 percent in August, the slowest pace in
six months, the statistics office said yesterday. A report today
showed  retail sales  rose 4.6 percent in August, almost half the
pace of growth in the previous month.  “We are in a fragile recovery,” Marcus said. “Growth is
low” given the country’s development needs.  South Africa has to look at a “multitude of policies” to
address the impact of the rand, including tax breaks and
depreciation allowances for manufacturers, she said.  While the global economy is out of recession, it’s not out
of “crisis,” she said. “We are in very difficult times.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 