-- Harrah's Bonds Climb to 5-Month High as Investors Show Interest in Casinos
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-10-13T21:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/harrah-s-bonds-climb-to-highest-in-5-months-amid-mgm-offering.html
Bonds of  Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. 
climbed to the highest in five months as MGM Resort
International’s stock offering signaled gaming companies’
renewed access to capital markets.  The world’s biggest casino company’s $3.3 billion of 10
percent notes due in December 2018 rose 1.75 cents to 87.25
cents on the dollar, the highest since May 5, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  MGM  plans to raise about $517 million
selling stock, according to statements today and yesterday. Both
companies are based in Las Vegas.  Harrah’s bonds rose as MGM’s share sale showed investor
willingness to help casinos refinance their debt, said  Robert Grimm , a high-yield trader at broker-dealer Odeon Capital Group
LLC in Greenwich Connecticut. Las Vegas Strip gambling revenue
jumped 21 percent in August, Nevada’s Gaming Control Board said
last week.  “All gaming paper has been substantially better the last
couple of weeks,” Grimm said. “You’re starting to see a little
bit of life out of Las Vegas.”  Harrah’s, taken private in a buyout almost three years ago,
filed on Aug. 12 to register $710 million of shares held by
billionaire  John Paulson , a step toward becoming a publicly
traded company again.  ‘Fix Itself’  “Harrah’s has definitely been trying to fix itself
financially and has been doing a decent job,” said  Larry Klatzkin , an analyst at Chapdelaine Credit Partners in New York.
“People feel better about the gaming sector.”  High-yield, high-risk, or junk-rated, companies have sold
$210 billion of U.S. corporate bonds this year, already
eclipsing the record $162.7 billion in all of 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gaming company bonds yield an average of 10.2 percent as of
Oct. 12, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data,
compared with 7.84 percent in the overall high-yield market.  “You’ve obviously got a very strong high-yield market,”
Grimm said. “Gaming paper is one of the cheapest sectors in the
high-yield market, and people are certainly stretching for
yield.”  Speculative-grade bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.
Harrah’s is ranked Caa3 by Moody’s and B- by S&P, Bloomberg data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  