-- Asian Currencies Strengthen, Led by South Korean Won, on Fed Policy Stance
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-10-13T08:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/asian-currencies-strengthen-led-by-south-korean-won-on-fed-policy-stance.html
Asian currencies gained, led by
South Korea’s won and the Philippine peso, after the Federal
Reserve signaled it may ease monetary policy, boosting appetite
for higher-yielding regional assets.  The won climbed 1 percent to 1,120.70 per dollar as of the
3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The peso rose 0.7 percent to 43.375 and Taiwan’s dollar advanced
0.4 percent to NT$30.96. The Thai baht appreciated 0.4 percent
to 29.86 and touched a 13-year high of 29.76.  “The Fed minutes really turned sentiment around and got
people to start selling the dollar,” said  Mirza Baig , a
Singapore-based currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, the
world’s largest foreign-exchange trader. “Everyone’s back to
talking about a second quantitative easing from the Fed.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, increased
0.2 percent to 115.28. The Fed said in the minutes of a Sept. 21
meeting released yesterday that policy makers were prepared to
ease policy “before long” and were focused on purchases of
Treasury securities to boost the U.S. economy.  Asia’s developing economies will expand 9.4 percent in 2010,
compared with growth of 2.7 percent in advanced countries, the
International Monetary Fund forecast on Oct. 6. Global funds
bought a net $38 billion of equities this year in India, South
Korea and Taiwan, according to exchange data.  ‘Quantitative Easing’  The won climbed the most in a week as the benchmark Kospi
index snapped a four-day decline. The currency has advanced 3.4
percent in the past month, the second-best performance among
Asia’s most-traded currencies excluding the yen, after India’s
rupee.  Taiwan’s dollar rose as much as 0.9 percent, the most in 17
months, on speculation exporters took advantage of a drop in the
currency yesterday to convert overseas earnings. The central
bank intervened to curb appreciation that may hurt exporters
during the final minutes of trading yesterday, according to two
traders who declined to be identified.  “The Fed buying more Treasuries means the greenback will
fall even further, driving up the Taiwan dollar and other Asian
currencies,” said  Tarsicio Tong , a foreign-exchange trader at
Union Bank of Taiwan in Taipei. “The central bank will continue
to act to slow” the currency’s gains, he said.  The Philippine peso snapped a three-day decline after
Finance Undersecretary Gil Beltran said yesterday the economy
likely expanded more than 7 percent in the third quarter and
that growth in 2010 will probably beat a 6 percent target.  “The growth picture is encouraging,” said  Radhika Rao , an
economist at Forecast Ltd. in Singapore. “There’s also a play
on the interest-rate differential after last night’s release of
Fed minutes that shows increased scope for quantitative
easing.”  The Philippines’ policy rate of 4 percent compares with
zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S.  Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit gained 0.4 percent to 3.0940,
the Singapore dollar rose 0.3 percent to S$1.3048 and
Indonesia’s rupiah strengthened 0.2 percent to 8,923.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 