-- Hedge Funds Have Best September Ever on Emerging Markets, Eurekahedge Says
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2010-10-13T01:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/asia-propels-hedge-funds-to-best-september-on-record-eurekahedge-reports.html
Hedge funds had their best September
on record, led by managers investing in Asia ex-Japan and
emerging markets, and funds that trade equities, according to
Eurekahedge Pte.  The Eurekahedge Hedge Fund Index, which tracks more than
2,600 funds worldwide, rose 3.5 percent last month, bringing its
year-to-September advance to 5.2 percent,  Eurekahedge  said in an
e-mailed  report . The index had its second-best monthly return
since May 2003, the Singapore-based data provider said.  Hedge funds had positive returns for the third consecutive
month, with the Eurekahedge Asia ex-Japan Hedge Fund Index’s 6
percent advance leading gains among seven regional gauges. The
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index  surged 11 percent after new Chinese
measures to tame real-estate prices removed uncertainty about
government efforts to spur sustainable economic growth.  All seven regional indexes advanced, the preliminary report
showed. The index tracking hedge funds investing in emerging
markets was the second-best performer, advancing 4.2 percent,
while hedge funds in North America returned 3.7 percent. By
contrast, managers investing in Japan were the worst performers
with a 0.7 percent return last month.  By strategy, long-short funds that trade on rising and
falling stock prices were the best performers, climbing 4.3
percent, the report said. Event-driven funds, which invest in
companies undergoing transactions such as mergers or spinoffs,
followed with a 3.8 percent return.  Catch Up  The hedge-fund benchmark advanced 19 percent last year, its
best performance since 2003, after a decline of 11 percent in
2008. Eurekahedge’s preliminary report is based on 44 percent of
funds reporting returns for September. The research firm plans
to release a full report on Oct. 19.  Asian and Latin American cities are attracting more of the
world’s biggest hedge funds, catching up with London and New
York, the Financial Times reported today.  Hong Kong and Singapore now house 15 managers with $1
billion or more, compared with 10 at the beginning of the year,
the report said, citing Hedge Fund Intelligence. Sao Paulo and
Rio de Janeiro are now home to five hedge funds with more than
$1 billion each, compared with only one 12 months ago, the
newspaper said, citing data by the industry researcher.  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  