-- Asian Stocks Advance as Japan Machinery Orders, Intel Sales Beat Estimates
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2010-10-13T10:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/asian-stocks-advance-as-japan-machinery-orders-intel-sales-beat-estimates.html
Asian  stocks  rose, sending the
regional equity benchmark to its biggest gain in five days, as
reports from China, Japan and Australia showed the economic
recovery is strengthening.  Fanuc Ltd.  in Tokyo and Anhui Conch Cement Co. in Hong Kong
gained at least 2.3 percent after Japanese machinery orders rose
more than expected and the Chinese government said it will
promote sales of construction material in rural areas.  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. , the world’s second-largest maker of computer
memory chips, advanced 3.5 percent as Intel Corp. predicted
fourth-quarter sales that beat analysts’ estimates. Chinese
banks in Hong Kong gained after data showed lending last month
unexpectedly increased.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.6 percent to 129.50 as
of 7:28 p.m. in Tokyo, with all 10 industry groups increasing.
About two stocks advanced for each that fell on the nearly
1,000-member gauge. The measure has advanced 2.4 percent this
month on speculation central banks around the world will
increase efforts to boost economic growth.  “The Asian market is determined by the stability of
China’s economy and the data seems to suggest that China’s
economy in the fourth quarter will be stable, so the outlook
overall for Asia is pretty good,” said  Steve Tse , a Hong Kong-
based research manager at BEA Union Investment Management, which
oversees $4.5 billion.  Hong Kong Advances  The  S&P/ASX 200 Index  gained as much as 0.8 percent in
Sydney after Australian consumer confidence rebounded in October,
according to a Westpac Banking Corp. and Melbourne Institute
survey today.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 0.2 percent while
the broader Topix index declined 0.2 percent toward the end of
the trading session as pessimism over Japan’s domestic economic
outlook overshadowed gains by exporters on expectations the U.S.
Federal Reserve will act to shore up the economy.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  rose 1.5 percent to the highest
level since June 2008 as China’s central bank showed the
country’s banks extended 595.5 billion yuan ($89 billion) of new
loans last month. The gauge fell by as much as 0.4 percent
earlier, led by developers, after Chief Executive  Donald Tsang 
said the city would act to make housing more affordable.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed 0.5
percent. The U.S. equity benchmark rose 0.4 percent to 1,169.77
yesterday after minutes of the Federal Reserve’s meeting last
month showed the central bank was prepared to buy more
government debt to stabilize the recovery.  Machinery Orders  “If the Fed takes more steps to spur the U.S. economy, it
will also boost the export-driven Asian economy and markets in
the region,” said  Michiya Tomita , a Hong Kong-based fund
manager at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees
$65 billion globally.  Fanuc , Japan’s No. 1 maker of industrial robots, gained 2.3
percent to 11,010 yen.  Komatsu Ltd. , a maker of heavy machinery,
climbed 0.9 percent to 1,909 yen.  Japanese machinery orders rose 10.1 percent from July, the
largest increase since December, the Cabinet Office said today
in Tokyo. The median forecast of 28 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 3.9 percent decline. The data is an
indicator of business investment in three to six months.  Anhui Conch Cement , a Chinese maker of construction
materials, rallied 7.8 percent to HK$36.50 in Hong Kong. China
National Building Material Co., a producer of fiberglass and dry
wall, jumped 10 percent to HK$19.92.  China Exports  China will start trials of a program to promote sales of
construction materials in rural areas, the Ministry of Housing
and Urban-Rural Development said in a statement on its website
yesterday. The trials, focusing on cement, are taking place in
the provinces of Shandong and Ningxia, according to a statement
dated Sept. 29 and posted to its website today.  Exports in China, the world’s fastest growing major economy,
rose 25.1 percent from a year earlier and imports climbed 24.1
percent, the customs bureau said on its website today.  Hynix  increased 3.5 percent to 23,400 won in Seoul and
Advanced Semiconductor Engineering Inc. rose 3.3 percent to
NT$24.75 in Taipei. Tokyo Electron Ltd., the world’s No. 2
semiconductor-equipment maker, gained 1.3 percent to 4,550 yen.  Intel , the world’s biggest chipmaker, said revenue for the
fourth quarter will be $11.4 billion, plus or minus $400 million.
Corporations and households in less developed markets bought
more computers, helping the company weather slumping demand
among consumers in the U.S. and Europe, Intel Chief Financial
Officer  Stacy Smith  said in an interview.  ‘Sustainable Rally’  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. , the world’s largest
contract maker of electronics, gained 1.3 percent to NT$114.50
in Taiwan. The Commercial Times reported that the company raised
manufacturing prices from this month for its largest clients
including Apple Inc., Nokia Oyj, Microsoft Corp. and Sony
Ericsson Mobile Communications AB.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has risen 7.5 percent this year
on speculation growth in profit will weather Europe’s debt
crisis, Chinese steps to curb property-price inflation and
concern about the pace of the U.S. economic rebound. Stocks in
the gauge trade at 14.2 times estimated profit on average,
compared with 13.9 times for the  S&P 500  and 12 times for the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index .  Chinese banks rose in Hong Kong today after the People’s
Bank of China said new local-currency lending was 595.5 billion
yuan last month. That compared with the median 500 billion yuan
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s
biggest lender, rose 2 percent to HK$6.05. China Construction
Bank Corp., the country’s second-largest bank, advanced 2.6
percent to HK$7.17.  Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s fourth-
largest bank by assets, increased 2.6 percent to HK$4.36.  “The growth in the Chinese lending data helped boost
sentiment in the banks,” said  Derrick Tan , a sales trader at
Citic Securities Hong Kong Co. “The rally in Hong Kong looks
sustainable even with the index above 23,000 due to prospects of
further quantitative easing.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Lynn Thomasson  in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 