-- ASML Third-Quarter Net Rises, Repeats Record 2010 Sales Forecast
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   M a u d   V a n   G a a l
-- 2010-10-13T08:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/asml-third-quarter-profit-rises-as-sales-remain-on-track-to-reach-record.html
ASML Holding NV , Europe’s biggest
semiconductor equipment maker, said third-quarter profit rose
and reiterated that 2010 sales will advance to a record, helped
by strong order intake.  Net income increased to 268.5 million euros ($375 million)
in the quarter from 19.8 million euros a year earlier, the
Veldhoven, Netherlands-based company said in a statement today.
That beat the 247 million-euro average of 20  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Net sales rose to 1.18 billion euros,
higher than the 1.13 billion-euro Bloomberg estimate.  “Third-quarter results were ahead of expectations,”
 Adrien Bommelaer , an analyst at Piper Jaffray in London, said in
a note. “Fourth-quarter guidance is also better than expected,
supporting our view that technology migrations are playing out,
irrespective of the current weakness in the PC market.”  The  shares  rose as much as 2.9 percent, or 65 cents, to
22.74 euros and traded at 22.69 euros as of 10:01 a.m. in
Amsterdam. The company has a market value of 9.9 billion euros.  ASML, the maker of machines that produce chips for Apple
Inc.’s iPods and Nokia Oyj’s mobile phones, is benefitting from
increased demand for equipment to make memory chips.  Intel
Corp. , the world’s biggest chipmaker, yesterday predicted
fourth-quarter sales that beat analysts’ estimates, citing
strong demand from businesses and customers in emerging
economies.  ‘Peak Sales’  The company received 1.3 billion euros in net orders for 60
systems in the third quarter. It expects bookings in the last
quarter “to exceed the Q3 level, confirming our potential for
2011 sales growth,” Chief Executive Officer  Eric Meurice  said
in the  statement .  ASML projected fourth-quarter revenue of about 1.3 billion
euros and repeated its full-year forecast for sales to grow 10
percent to 15 percent above a record 3.8 billion euros in 2007.
It predicted a gross margin of about 44 percent in the last
quarter of 2010.  ASML expects “strong and continuous structural demand”
for its products in spite of “mixed signals of less bullish
growth of personal computer demand and memory price declines,”
Meurice said. This view “is supported by the current sustained
bit growth trends for DRAM and flash memory chips as well as the
continued strategic investments by all foundry chip
manufacturers.”  Dividend  ASML is the world’s largest maker of machines to project
lines on the silicon slices from which chips are made. Its main
rival is  Nikon Corp.  of Japan. Applied Materials Inc., based in
Santa Clara, California, is the world’s largest maker of
semiconductor equipment.  Global semiconductor capital equipment spending is
projected to more than double to $36.9 billion this year from
$16.6 billion in 2009, researcher Gartner Inc. said Sept. 13.
“2010 will likely be the strongest year ever for the
semiconductor equipment industry,”  Klaus Rinnen , Gartner
managing vice president, said last month. He projected growth
will continue through 2012 as “companies move from technology
buys to capacity purchases.”  Chief Financial Officer  Peter Wennink  said in a  video  on
the company’s website that ASML expects to pay a dividend
“after such a good year.” ASML paid a dividend of 20 euro
cents per share this year, according to  Bloomberg data .  “We were wrong on the fourth-quarter order intake, we
expected a sequential decline of 15 percent,” ING Groep NV
analysts said in a note today. “2010 will be an extremely good
year for ASML but we remain very cautious about a possible turn
in new orders in the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 