-- AT&T, Verizon May Have to Warn Mobile-Phone Users Topping Limits
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-10-13T20:52:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/at-t-verizon-may-have-to-warn-mobile-phone-users-topping-limits.html
Verizon Wireless ,  AT&T Inc.  and
smaller competitors may have to start alerting mobile-phone
subscribers who are about to exceed their monthly limits and
trigger higher service charges, a U.S. regulator said.  The Federal Communications Commission will propose rules
tomorrow and may take a final vote in coming months, Chairman
 Julius Genachowski  said in an interview. Subscribers may get
voice or text alerts when they use too many minutes in a month
or place calls using more expensive networks outside the U.S.,
the agency said in a summary distributed by e-mail.  The FCC has reports of unauthorized “‘mystery fees’
popping up on bills,” Genachowski said today in a speech in
Washington. “It’s hard to keep track of everything you’re being
charged and too easy to find yourself paying more than you had
planned on.”  A  survey  by the FCC showed 30 million Americans, or one in
six mobile-phone users, had experienced “bill shock,”
Genachowski said. The agency received 764 complaints about high
bills in the first half of this year, 20 percent for charges of
$1,000 or more, according to an analysis released today. The
largest complaint was over a $68,505 charge, the agency said.  Carriers led by Verizon Wireless, under FCC investigation
for overcharging 15 million customers for data, have said
mandatory messages aren’t necessary because carriers give
customers ways to track use of data, voice and text features.  Fees Studied  The FCC also is studying fees for terminating service plans
before contracts end, Genachowski said. The review includes
charges tied to packages with video, telephone and high-speed
Internet service, or broadband, he said.  “Confusion is particularly high for fixed broadband and
bundled plans where these fees are a fairly recent
development,” Genachowski said. “There’s no reason we
shouldn’t have clear and simple disclosure.”  Providers are concerned about “prescriptive and costly
rules,”  Christopher Guttman-McCabe , a vice president for CTIA-
the Wireless Association, a Washington-based trade group, said
in an e-mail yesterday. “The industry continues to develop
tools to keep customers informed about their level of usage.”  The FCC’s proposal would require clear disclosure of the
tools to track minutes of use, in part because “too many
consumers don’t know about them,” according to the summary.  A Verizon Wireless customer, Robert St. Germain of Dover,
Massachusetts, faced an $18,000 bill after free data downloads
expired without warning, the FCC said. The company agreed to
forgo the charges after the bill was featured in a newspaper
article and the FCC intervened, the agency said.  The company in a May statement said it wrote off the charge
because “the remaining balance was uncollectable” and that
“bills of this nature are exceptionally rare."  Verizon Wireless is owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. 
and  Vodafone Group Plc .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 