-- Attorneys General in 50 States Join Foreclosure Probe
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-13T20:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/attorneys-general-in-49-states-join-foreclosure-probe-update1-.html
Top legal officers of all 50 states
opened a joint investigation into home  foreclosures , saying they
will seek an immediate halt to any improper practices at banks
and mortgage companies.  The states will conduct a coordinated inquiry into whether
banks and loan servicers used false documents and signatures to
justify hundreds of thousands of foreclosures. The group intends
to establish independent monitoring, Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , who is leading the probe, said today in a statement.  “The financial institutions would be well served by
working with us to get it cleaned up,” Ohio Attorney General
 Richard Cordray  told Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with
 Margaret Brennan .” “And they’d also be well served to think
about reaching negotiated resolutions with borrowers in cases
where they’ve created exposure for themselves by committing
fraud upon the courts.”  The  National Association of Attorneys General  announced
today that 49 states would be participating in the
investigation, with Alabama the holdout. Alabama later joined
the probe, even though “no violations of Alabama law have been
alleged at this time,” Attorney General  Troy King  said in an
e-mailed statement.  Alabama is taking part “to ensure that the lenders’
wrongdoings did not extend beyond what is already known to
encompass actions that violated Alabama law,” King said.  Officials in at least 10 states including Florida and Ohio
previously announced separate probes into questionable
foreclosure tactics.  Colorado, California  States including California and Colorado asked lenders to
stop foreclosures. Ohio’s Cordray last week sued  Ally Financial
Inc. , claiming fraud in foreclosure practices.  Bank of America Corp. , the largest U.S. lender, extended a
freeze on foreclosures to all 50 states on Oct. 8 as concern
spread among federal and state officials that homes were being
seized based on faulty data.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Ally’s GMAC Mortgage unit stopped
repossession cases in 23 states where courts supervise home
seizures. Litton Loan Servicing LP, a mortgage-servicing
business owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , said Oct. 8 that it
was halting some foreclosures to review how they are handled.  “We look forward to cooperating with the attorneys
general,”  Tom Kelly , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan
Chase, said today in a phone interview.  ‘Responsible Approach’  “We will meet with the attorneys general to discuss the
concerns they have expressed,”  Rick Simon , a spokesman for
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America, said. “On
Friday Bank of America announced we will stop foreclosure sales
across all 50 states while we complete our review. We believe
this demonstrates appropriate concern and a responsible
approach.”  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for Ally, said “GMAC Mortgage is
committed to restoring confidence in the foreclosure process and
has been working expeditiously on the review and remediation
activities for the affected cases.”  “Where we have received official inquiries from individual
states, we are responding accordingly,” Proia said in an
e-mailed statement.  As part of its probe, the group established an executive
committee of top legal officers from 12 states, including
California, Iowa, New York, Illinois and Texas, and the banking
regulators of Maryland, New York and Pennsylvania.  “This announcement illustrates states’ ability to
coordinate our efforts to protect consumers,”  John Ryan ,
executive vice president of the  Conference of State Bank
Supervisors , said in a statement.  ‘Fair and Accurate’  “Since this issue affects people’s homes and has clear
economic implications, this probe and its outcome need to be
fair both to homeowners and also to lenders,” Iowa’s Miller
said in his statement.  The group’s initial goals include stopping improper
foreclosures, reviewing past and present practices by mortgage
servicers, evaluating potential remedies and establishing a
mechanism for more effective independent monitoring of future
mortgage foreclosure practices, Miller’s office said.  “We are in the fourth year of a housing and economic
crisis that was brought on by lax practices of the mortgage
lending industry,” Minnesota Attorney General  Lori Swanson  said
in a statement. “The latest allegations of corner cutting and
slipshod paperwork are troubling, but perhaps not surprising,
and they need to be addressed to ensure a fair and accurate
foreclosure process in Minnesota.”  Lack of Confirmation  Some lenders have acknowledged that employees may have
completed court affidavits without confirming their accuracy. In
December, a GMAC employee said in a deposition in a foreclosure
case in West Palm Beach, Florida, that his team of 13 people
signed about 10,000 documents a month without verifying them.  Ohio’s Cordray announced last week that he sued Ally in
state court, claiming the GMAC unit committed fraud and violated
state consumer law by filing false affidavits in foreclosure
proceedings.  “It appears affidavits and other documents have been
signed by persons who did not have personal knowledge of the
facts asserted in the documents,” the Mortgage Foreclosure
Multistate Group said in its statement. “In addition, it
appears that many affidavits were signed outside of the presence
of a notary public, contrary to state law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 