-- Latvian Prime Minister Seeks Support of Four Parties for New Government
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2010-10-13T10:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/latvian-prime-minister-seeks-support-of-four-parties-for-new-government.html
Latvian Prime Minister  Valdis Dombrovskis  is trying to form a government with the backing of
four parties controlling almost all the seats in parliament as
he seeks to blunt opposition to another round of budget cuts.  “We are trying to find a cooperation model that will be
acceptable to four parties,” though some of the groups may not
be represented in the Cabinet, Dombrovskis, 39, said today on
the Latvian television program 900 Seconds. Talks are continuing
after Oct. 2 parliamentary elections.  The four parties would have 92 votes in the 100-seat
parliament. Latvia, which has cut wages, slashed spending and
raised taxes to meet the terms of a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.5
billion) loan program led by the International Monetary Fund,
plans more austerity measures in 2011 and 2012 so it can adopt
the euro in 2014.  “A well-organized opposition that is bent on being
destructive can really paralyze parliament,” said  Nils Muiznieks , a political scientist at the University of Latvia.
“What the government is trying to do is to defang the
opposition.”  Dombrovskis’ Unity bloc won 33 seats in parliament and
current coalition member Union of Greens and Farmers has 22.
Harmony Center, which finished second with 29 seats and
represents the Russian-speaking minority, has been offered a
ministry and cooperation in parliament, Dombrovskis said. The
fourth potential partner is For Fatherland, with eight seats.  ‘Empty Threat’  Signatures of one-third of parliamentarians can create a
commission to investigate possible abuse and to call on the
president to withhold signing of a law for two months, the
newspaper  Diena  reported today.  “In a way it’s a little bit of an empty threat if they
were a destructive opposition as they would make themselves look
irresponsible and unfit to govern,” Muiznieks said.  Dombrovskis said there were concerns that a government
containing For Fatherland/All for Latvia would complicate some
foreign policy areas, without saying which ones. The party
campaigned on a nationalist platform and is for strengthening
the role of the Latvian language in the country and want Russia
to pay compensation for losses incurred during Soviet rule.  Dombrovskis may form a government with the Union of Greens
and Farmers, creating a coalition with 55 votes, Diena reported,
without saying where it got the information. Dombrovskis would
then try to sign cooperation agreements with Harmony Center and
For Fatherland/All for Latvia, the Riga-based newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  