-- Australia Can Handle Worst Mortgage-Loan Defaults, Fitch Stress Test Shows
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-10-13T03:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/australia-can-handle-worst-mortgage-loan-defaults-fitch-stress-test-shows.html
A 40 percent tumble in Australian
house prices and a home loan default rate of 8 percent would be
“manageable” for the nation’s banks and mortgage insurers,
Fitch Ratings said.  Banks would see a maximum A$10 billion ($9.9 billion) of
losses in the third year of a severe mortgage stress scenario
and mortgage insurers would lose a little more than A$7 billion,
 John Miles  and John Birch, directors for financial institutions
at Fitch, said at a briefing in Sydney today. The findings are
the preliminary results of a stress test announced last month.  In response to queries about the sustainability of
Australia’s residential housing prices, the ratings company is
analyzing the impact of default and price-decline scenarios on
banks and insurers.  Jeremy Grantham , chief investment strategist
at Boston-based Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co., and  Gerard Minack , chief strategist for global developed markets at Morgan
Stanley’s Australian unit, are among those warning of a housing
bubble in Australia, saying prices could tumble 40 percent.  Fitch’s analysis suggests “losses, even in the most severe
scenario, are manageable,” Miles said. The three scenarios
Fitch is testing are mild stress, with mortgage defaults of 2.5
percent and a 20 percent drop in home  prices ; medium stress with
6 percent defaults and 30 percent decline in prices; and severe
stress with 8 percent defaults and a 40 percent price slump.  Lending Standards  Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the nation’s biggest
mortgage lender, last month disputed suggestions that Australian
home prices are in a bubble. It said metropolitan home prices
are in line with coastal cities in other countries, household
debt isn’t much higher, and lack of speculative buying will keep
loan losses in check.  Australian banks’ stringent lending standards compared with
overseas counterparts, and improving loss ratios for insurers
after premium increases, would help them handle losses in the
severe scenario, Miles and Birch said.  “In the case of the banks, loan-loss reserves and pre-
provision, pre-tax profits are more than adequate,” Miles said
in an e-mail. Rating changes are possible under severe scenarios,
though less so for the banks, he said.  Australia’s banking regulator, the Australian Prudential
Regulation Authority, which last carried out a major stress test
on domestic banks in 2008, has said it continuously monitors the
lenders.  Maximum Losses  Seven of the 91 European Union banks subject to stress
tests failed with a combined capital shortfall of 3.5 billion
euros ($4.9 billion), findings released on July 23 showed. Tests
carried out in the U.S. last year found 10 lenders needed to
raise $74.6 billion of capital.  Commonwealth Bank, which did its own stress test, said last
month that under a “high-stress scenario,” with interest rates
at 14 percent, unemployment at 10 percent and property values
down 30 percent, it would see losses of A$740 million, or 0.2
percent of its total book, not including additional insured
losses.  The Fitch loan figures for banks include insured losses.  Residential mortgage-backed securities that are currently
rated AAA would maintain their assessments in mild and moderate
stress scenarios, said  Natasha Vojvodic , senior director of
Fitch’s structured finance group. Some 3 percent of the highest-
rated securities would see downgrades to AA under severe
mortgage stress, she said, based on analysis of 32 of 98 RMBS
transactions Fitch is studying.  A slump in Australian home prices over the short-to-medium
term isn’t Fitch’s central expectation, the ratings company said
Sept. 29 when it announced the stress tests.  Fitch said it is conducting the tests after house prices in
Australia’s eight capital cities rose 18.4 percent in the year
to June, based on Australian Bureau of Statistics data. That
leaves prices 41 percent higher than in June 2006, compared with
a 28 percent drop the U.S. in the period and an 18 percent
decline in U.K. prices to the first quarter of 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net  