-- Lautenberg Seeks Private Partner for Halted Tunnel
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-10-13T17:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/lautenberg-seeking-private-partner-for-halted-new-jersey-commuter-tunnel.html
U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a  New
Jersey  Democrat, said he contacted a “major New York City-based
finance firm” for help in funding the commuter-rail tunnel
project canceled last week by Governor  Chris Christie .  Lautenberg, 86, declined to name the company during an
interview in East Orange today. He said he wants to examine that
as one potential way to restart the project. Christie cited cost
overruns that he said could be as high as $5 billion for his
decision, which Lautenberg called “one of the biggest public-
policy blunders in New Jersey history.”  “If that could happen, it may be one way to help lighten
the load,” the senator said, referring to a private role in
financing the tunnel under the Hudson River.  Christie and the  Federal Transit Administration  are
undertaking a 14-day review of his decision and whether the
project can be re-started. The tunnel, the largest mass-transit
project in the history of the transportation agency, calls for
an 8.8-mile (14-kilometer) conduit to double the number of
commuter trains  New Jersey Transit  can send into Manhattan in
peak periods.  Lautenberg said he also asked officials with the federal
government and the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey to
contribute more to the project. Lautenberg said he hasn’t
received commitments for increased funding from the federal
government or the Port Authority.  Funding Shifted  The original funding plan called for the state to pay $2.7
billion of the cost, while the federal government and Port
Authority would each pitch in $3 billion. Lautenberg said U.S.
Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  has told him New Jersey
would forfeit the money if the project is scuttled.  “States are searching for ways to get through their own
problems,” Lautenberg said. “This is New Jersey’s project.
They’re going to manage it, and it’s going to be up to them to
contain the costs.”  Christie said the initial $8.7 billion cost of the tunnel
might have reached $14 billion. His spokesman,  Michael Drewniak ,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment.  Los Angeles Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa , who attended a
speech this week by President  Barack Obama  on infrastructure
spending, said it “boggled his mind” that a state would turn
down the $3 billion and that he would be interested in seeking a
share. Lautenberg said officials in Texas and Orlando, Florida,
have also expressed interest in obtaining some of the $3
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stacie Servetah at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net  