-- Axiom Seeks to Raise $100 Million in First U.A.E. IPO in Almost Two Years
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2010-10-13T12:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/axiom-of-dubai-plans-to-sell-shares-in-ipo-list-stock-on-nasdaq-dubai.html
Axiom Ltd.,  a unit of a Dubai-based
phone retailer, plans to raise at least $100 million selling new
shares in the United Arab Emirates’ first initial public
offering in almost two years, terms for the sale show.  The company will use the primary proceeds to reduce debt
and finance expansion, according to the termsheet for the sale
obtained by Bloomberg News. Axiom’s existing shareholders will
also sell shares in the dollar-denominated IPO, according to the
terms. The company plans to sell as much as a 35 percent stake,
it said in a statement today.  Persian Gulf companies are joining a surge in emerging
market share sales to raise funds as regional stock markets
rebound and companies restructure their debt. Aluminium Bahrain
BSC, operator of an 850,000 metric-ton-a-year smelter, announced
plans to sell shares. Nawras, the Omani mobile-phone company
controlled by Qatar Telecom QSC, is in the middle of a book-
built IPO.  “The market has started to recover, and there is no lack of
money for the right transaction,” Axiom’s Chief Executive
Officer  Faisal Al Bannai  said at a conference call today. “The
timing is right.”  Axiom’s share sale is the first in the U.A.E. since  Green
Crescent Insurance Co. , an Abu Dhabi-based provider of health
insurance, raised $37 million in March 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Deutsche Bank AG, Citigroup Inc. and
Shuaa Capital PSC are the joint book-runners for sale. The final
price of the IPO is scheduled to be set on Nov. 10, terms show.  Axiom had sales 3 billion dirhams ($817 million) in the
first-half of the year and 5 billion dirhams last year, Al
Bannai said. The company has more than 1,500 employees in the
Middle East. Axiom Telecom is 40 percent owned by Dubai Holding
Commercial Operations Group LLC, a company owned by Dubai ruler
 Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net 
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 