-- BAA Loses Appeals Court Ruling Over Sale of Two U.K. Airports
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-13T16:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/baa-may-be-forced-by-appeals-court-ruling-to-sell-two-of-its-u-k-airports.html
BAA Ltd., the owner of London’s
Heathrow airport, was ordered to sell two U.K. airports after an
appeals court rejected its claim of regulatory bias during a
probe of the industry.  The Court of Appeal reinstated the  Competition Commission ’s
March 2009 decision forcing BAA to sell  Stansted  near London and
either the Glasgow or Edinburgh airports. BAA, owned by Madrid-
based  Ferrovial SA , already sold London Gatwick under pressure
from the regulator.  “The ruling should put an end to the back-and-forth over
the ownership of the key U.K. airports, bring certainty to the
market and inject some much needed competition into the
sector,” said  Frances Murphy , a lawyer who leads the antitrust
practice at Jones Day LLP in London and isn’t involved in the
case.  BAA, which was originally ordered to sell the airports by
spring 2011, had initial success in fighting the forced sales,
when an  appeals  tribunal in December 2009 accepted its argument
that an adviser for the regulator didn’t remove himself soon
enough in the investigation when a conflict of interest arose.
Today’s judgment overturned that finding.  BAA argued that the adviser,  Peter Moizer , had caused
“unconscious bias” at an early stage in the probe because he
was linked to a group that considered buying some of BAA’s
assets. The court today held that the potential for bias arose
much later.  Possible Appeal  The lower court “was wrong to find apparent bias” before
a critical stage of the antitrust review in December 2008, about
three months before the regulator’s investigation ended, Judge
 Maurice Kay  of the London-based court said in the ruling.  BAA said in a statement it will seek permission to appeal
the case to the Supreme Court because today’s ruling confirmed
there was possible bias during part of the investigation.  The adviser counseled a pension fund that invests money for
the local authorities that control Manchester Airports Group,
which had considered bidding on BAA properties.  Competition Commission spokesman  Rory Taylor  said the
regulator was “pleased” with the court ruling and that the
agency had already taken steps to avoid future potential
conflicts of interest.  Ferrovial rose 9 cents to 7.57 euros in Madrid composite
 trading . The shares have fallen 7.9 percent so far this year.  Manchester Airport  The London-based Competition Commission has said Moizer,
who quit the advisory panel in March 2009, wasn’t involved in
the final steps of the process.  BAA sold Gatwick airport to Global Infrastructure Partners
Ltd. for 1.51 billion pounds ($2.26 billion).  Ryanair Holdings Plc , the Dublin-based discount carrier,
joined the litigation in support of the regulator. The airline
in June urged the appeals court to avoid the temptation of a
“puritanical approach” to the case.  The decision “is a great result for competition, consumer
choice and passengers,” Ryanair Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said today in a statement. “Ryanair has fought long and
hard for the break-up of the high cost, inefficient BAA airport
monopoly.”  A break up of BAA may bolster competition and result in
better service and more choice of flight destinations, said
Peter Smith a consultant at London-based travelsupermarket.com,
an Internet travel agency.  “The airport element of travelling has become one of the
most horrible parts of the travel experience, whether it’s
business or leisure,” he said in a telephone interview. “More
competition can only be a good thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 