-- Banks Pressed by Attorneys General to Halt, Fix Foreclosures
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/banks-pressed-by-attorneys-general-to-halt-fix-foreclosures.html
Florida’s attorney general asked
U.S. lenders to come up with a solution to the foreclosure
crisis, just as state officials around the country are set to
open an investigation into their practices.  Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum  asked five lenders
and mortgage servicing companies yesterday to meet with him to
“discuss ways to promptly and effectively redeem the integrity
of the foreclosure process,” according to a letter sent to the
companies.  “The first and foremost thing is to do it right, but we
can’t sit and do this for weeks and weeks,” McCollum said in an
interview. “It’d be very deadly for Florida’s economy.”  The move by the top prosecutor in Florida comes as a
coalition of about 40 state attorneys general, led by Iowa’s  Tom Miller , is planning to announce a multi-state investigation
today. Authorities in at least 10 states have begun
investigations into foreclosure practices at some of the
nation’s largest lenders.  These states will be part of the coalition, attorneys
general or their representatives confirmed: California, Ohio,
New Mexico, Texas, Florida, Iowa, Illinois, Michigan, Louisiana,
South Dakota, West Virginia and Minnesota.  New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  yesterday called for
lenders to halt foreclosures in his state amid allegations of
fraudulent documents used in the cases, according to a statement
from his office. California Attorney General  Jerry Brown 
demanded a freeze on Oct. 8.  ‘This Mess’  “All lenders should halt foreclosures until they clear up
this mess and ensure that the process is fair and complies with
California law,” Brown said in a statement.  McCollum is seeking to meet with  Bank of America Corp. ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Ally Financial Inc. ’s GMAC Mortgage unit,
 PNC Financial Services Group Inc.  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s
Litton Loan Servicing LP, according to copies of the letters.  Litigation and moves by the banks to freeze foreclosures
“are counterproductive,” the attorney general wrote. It could
take “many months, even years” to correct faulty affidavits
and reopen cases, he said.  “We would look forward to a meeting,” said  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan. He
declined to comment about Cuomo’s probe.  Bank of America’s  Jumana Bauwens  said the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based bank will work with the attorneys general “to
address concerns they have expressed.” Donna Marie Jendritza, a
spokeswoman for Litton Loan Servicing, declined to comment. A
spokesman for PNC, based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, couldn’t
be reached for comment.  ‘Robo-Signing’  Cuomo said he is requesting information from Bank of
America, JPMorgan, GMAC Mortgage and Wells Fargo & Co. as he
probes the validity of documents used in home foreclosures.
Cuomo is looking into allegations of “robo-signing,” or the
filing of affidavits that falsely attest the signer has personal
knowledge of the facts in a foreclosure proceeding.  Wells Fargo isn’t planning to suspend foreclosures,  Jason Menke , a spokesman for the San Francisco-based company, said in
a telephone interview.  “A number of officials have contacted us about our
foreclosure process and we will be sharing our views with
them,” Menke said. “We remain confident in the controls and
procedures we have.”  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally Financial,
declined to comment about the actions by the attorneys general.
GMAC said in a statement that it has hired law and accounting
firms to conduct independent reviews of its foreclosure
proceedings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New
York at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  