-- Bank of Queensland Reports Annual Profit Rose 27% as Lending Increased
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-10-14T05:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/bank-of-queensland-reports-its-full-year-net-income-rose-to-177-million.html
Bank of Queensland Ltd. , the
regional Australian lender formed in 1874, reported a 27 percent
gain in full-year profit as deposits and earnings from lending
increased.  Net income  for the year ended Aug. 31 climbed to A$179.6
million ($179 million) from A$141.1 million a year earlier, the
Brisbane-based bank reported today.  Managing Director  David Liddy  said shareholders can expect
higher dividends this year after the bank increased lending and
deposits faster than rivals. The bank also cut costs as demand
for borrowing by home buyers weakened after the  central bank 
pushed through the biggest increases in interest rates by a
Group of 20 member this year.  “We have continued to deliver on our commitments to the
market, despite the difficult conditions,”  Liddy  said in a
statement today. “We expect that bad debt losses have peaked.”  Shares  of Bank of Queensland fell 1.1 percent to A$10.40 in
Sydney, extending this year’s decline to 9.6 percent. The
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index advanced 1.7 percent.  Loans grew at 2.5 times the pace of the nation’s total
market and retail deposits expanded 1.5 times the system, the
bank said today. Its net interest margin, a gauge of how
profitable its lending business is, rose 4 basis points to 1.6
percent in the full year. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The bank boosted its full-year net interest margin,
“despite increasing funding costs putting pressures on margins
in the second half of this financial year,” Liddy said in the
statement.  The lender’s margin dropped in the second half of the year
to 1.55 percent from 1.65 percent in the first half.  Rising Rates  The bank’s results come as demand for borrowing stalls.
Lending to the nation’s businesses shrank 0.6 percent in August
from July, the most in ten months, taking the annual decline to
4 percent, Reserve Bank of Australia figures showed on Sept. 30.
Home loans tumbled for seven straight months through April as
central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  raised  borrowing costs  six
times between October 2009 and May.  The bank’s provisions for bad debt, plus reserves for
credit losses, jumped to A$190.6 million as at Aug. 31, from
A$134.3 million a year earlier.  “Overall it was disappointing, because of the higher bad
debt and the margins in the second half were a bit low and that
was unexpected,” said TS Lim, an analyst at Southern Cross
Equities Ltd. in Sydney. “It’s going to be tough for them to
achieve their target return-on-equity of 15 percent in a couple
of years.”  Rating Cut  Bank of Queensland was downgraded last week by Daiwa
Securities Capital Markets equity analyst  Johan Vanderlugt , who
said revenue from lending may slow as its business model remains
“rather reliant upon wholesale funding,” which has become more
expensive.  “Bank of Queensland is entering a lower-growth phase
characterized by much lower loan and deposit growth rates than
experienced over the past five years,” Melbourne-based
Vanderlugt said in an Oct. 8 note to investors.  Liddy said today “we are guiding the market to expect
higher dividends” in full-year 2011 after  paying  52 cents a
share for the full year.  The managing director also said Bank of Queensland intends
to enter the motor vehicle finance market “within the next
year.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  