-- Banks to Shift From `Extend and Pretend' in Real Estate Loans, Survey Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-10-13T20:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/banks-to-shift-from-extend-and-pretend-in-real-estate-loans-survey-says.html
Lenders will shift toward amending
commercial mortgages next year instead of extending maturities,
leading to increased sales of distressed real estate, according
to a survey of almost 900 property professionals.  More than 63 percent of those surveyed said they expect
maturing loans to be modified, while 7.1 percent said loans will
continue without changes to defer losses, a practice known as
“extend and pretend.” About 16 percent of respondents said
real estate with maturing loans will be foreclosed on and put on
the market, and almost 14 percent said properties will be sold
by borrowers, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in a  report  today.  “‘Extend and pretend’ was the sound bite from a year
ago,”  Mitch Roschelle , co-chairman of the annual “Emerging
Trends in Real Estate” survey, said in a telephone interview.
“Now it’s ‘extend and amend.’ There’s less pretending and more
focusing on the reality.”  Commercial real estate executives have lowered their return
expectations as they enter “an era of less,” according to the
74-page report. Stagnant wages and high unemployment have led
landlords and their lenders to focus on current yield rather
than expecting prices to rise, PricewaterhouseCoopers said.  “The metric that the real estate world is most sensitive
to is job creation,” Roschelle said. Rising employment spurs
demand for office space for workers, apartments and houses for
them to live in, stores where they can shop and warehouses used
by retailers, he said. “So one job creates all these different
uses of real estate.”  ‘Core’ Property Yields  Investors are seeking returns of 6 percent to 7 percent
from well-leased “core” properties, meaning the highest-
quality buildings in the best locations, according to the
survey.  For higher-risk investments, they’re expecting returns
within two or three percentage points of 15 percent. That’s down
from the more than 20 percent returns they sought before lenders
withdrew from the market after the 2008 credit crash caused more
than $1.8 trillion of financial losses and asset writedowns
worldwide.  Investor confidence is rising, with 56 percent expecting at
least “modestly good” profits in 2011, according to the
survey. That’s up from the 35 percent who are expecting modest
or better profitability this year.  ‘Raising the Bar’  “In the past, every transaction was bigger than the last
transaction, and we were constantly raising the bar,” said
Roschelle, who conducted about 10 percent of the survey’s 275
face-to-face interviews. “Now our survey respondents are
telling us nothing’s going to be as big as it was in the past.
We’re not going to see blockbuster transactions that grab the
headlines.”  Washington  and New York have pulled “away from the pack”
in investor favor while such coastal cities as San Francisco,
Boston and Seattle were near the top in almost all property
categories, the survey found. Values in Washington, where the
“government never downsizes,” stayed within 10 percent of
their peaks through the economic slide, according to the report.  In  New York , the Troubled Asset Relief Program and federal
support for banks helped limit job cuts, the researchers wrote.  “Who says TARP hasn’t helped real estate and markets?”
Jonathan D. Miller, the study’s chief writer, said during a
webcast today. “It certainly helped here in undergirding the
financial industry, which is so important to that market.
There’s a lot of confidence that New York will be
strengthening.”  ‘Most Livable’ City  Pittsburgh was cited in the survey as a model for
Midwestern cities struggling to recover from manufacturing
losses. Pittsburgh, named Forbes Magazine’s “most livable”
U.S. city for 2010, shifted its focus to health care and
education, offering “decent, steady returns” to investors even
with stagnant rent and property values, according to the report.  “In the Era of Less, modest, boring income returns should
become more expected, accepted and necessarily embraced in more
markets,” the study’s authors wrote.  The survey is a joint venture with the  Urban Land
Institute , a Washington-based organization of real estate
investors and developers, architects, engineers and academics.
The report is being released today at an institute conference in
Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  