-- Bank Bond Sales Jump to Record as Smallest Lenders Left Out: Brazil Credit
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   T a t i a n a   B a u t z e r
-- 2010-10-13T21:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/bank-bond-sales-jump-to-record-as-smallest-lenders-left-out-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian bank  bond sales are
climbing to a record, seven months after the central bank freed
lenders to start issuing longer-term local debt.  Sales of the notes, which are known as letras financeiras
and have a minimum maturity of two years, surged to 5.8 billion
reais ($3.49 billion) in September, the busiest month since the
debut issue in April, according to  Cetip SA - Balcao de Ativos e
Derivativos , Brazil’s biggest clearinghouse. Banks sold 4.2
billion reais worth in August and 8.2 billion reais over the
previous four months.  “Letras financeiras grew really fast,” said Alfredo Neves
Penteado Moraes, vice-president of the Sao Paulo-based capital
markets association, known as  Anbima . He had forecast at the
beginning of the year that issues would reach between 15 billion
reais and 20 billion reais by December. They totaled 18.2
billion reais through September.  Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  gave banks access
to the local bond market to help them lock up long-term
financing after the global credit crisis in 2008 left some
lenders short of cash. Prior to the creation of letras
financeiras, banks were banned from selling bonds in the local
market and had to turn to international markets to issue longer-
term debt.  They’ve sold $12.6 billion this year in overseas markets,
up from $3.3 billion in all of 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The local sales, all done through private transactions,
have been dominated by the country’s biggest lenders, according
to  ABBC , the Brazilian association of medium-sized banks.  Cetip 
said it doesn’t have information on individual sales because
issuers don’t have to disclose details on private offerings.  Bradesco, Santander  Government controlled- Banco do Brasil SA ,  Banco Bradesco SA 
and  Banco Santander Brasil SA , three of the country’s four
biggest lenders  by revenue , have issued the securities,
according to filings with the securities market regulator.  Banco do Brasil, based in Brasilia, sold 1 billion reais of
six-year notes in April paying a yield linked to the country’s
overnight lending rate. With the overnight rate trading at 10.64
percent in the interbank market, the bonds yield about 11.5
percent.  That floating-rate yield almost matches the 11.51 percent
that benchmark government fixed-rate bonds due in 2012 pay,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The lack of secondary-market trading makes investors
hesitant to buy the securities from smaller banks, according to
 Laercio Schulze , treasurer of Sao Paulo-based  Banco Daycoval ,
the country’s 15th-largest lender by revenue. Unlike time
deposits that banks can sell in the local market, the bonds
aren’t covered by insurance from the government-regulated Credit
Guarantee Fund and don’t offer tax benefits, further eroding
investor demand, he said.  Rule Change  “The central bank is obviously interested in having
medium-sized banks obtain longer-term funding,”  Wilson Roberto de Aro , chief financial officer of Sao Paulo-based Banco
Panamericano SA, said in a telephone interview. “The government
will have to generate incentives in order to make it viable.”  Brazil’s smaller banks resort to shorter-term certificates
of deposits, securitizations of loan portfolios and
international bond sales to finance their lending, said  Ricardo Gelbaum , executive financial director at  Banco BMG SA , a Belo
Horizonte-based privately held company. Neither BMG nor Daycoval
nor Panamericano, the country’s seventh-largest bank, has sold
letras, Gelbaum, de Aro and Schulze said.  The securities regulator proposed a rule change last week
allowing banks to sell the notes through public offerings, a
measure that may lead to secondary-market trading and help
smaller banks issue the securities.  ‘No Incentives’  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  called on the country’s
smaller banks to earn access to the new market and said they may
have to pay higher yields to drum up investor demand.  “We know the bigger banks are in a better position to
issue the securities,” Mantega told reporters in New York after
meeting with investors yesterday. “The medium-sized banks have
to adjust, maybe paying a bit more. We need to try to cut the
bond funding costs for all borrowers. The lower the costs for
banks, the lower the lending rates they can offer.”  A central bank official who asked not to be identified in
accordance with government policy declined to comment.  The proposed rule change wouldn’t be enough to jumpstart
bond sales from smaller banks because investors will still
prefer to buy certificates of deposits and time deposits, known
as DPGEs, from them, said  Octavio Indio  da Costa, chief
executive officer at Sao Paulo-based  Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA ,
Brazil’s 14th-biggest bank.  “There are no incentives to issue” the bonds, da Costa
said in an Oct. 11 interview. “Retail investors prefer instead
CDs and institutional investors have migrated to DPGEs.”  Default Swaps  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 fell seven basis points to 11.34 percent today. The
real rose 1 percent to 1.6530 per dollar, from 1.6699 on Oct.
11. Financial markets were closed yesterday in Latin America’s
biggest economy for a national holiday.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell five basis points to 89, the seventh-consecutive
decline and the lowest since May 2008, according to CMA
DataVision prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The average  yield  on Brazilian corporate dollar bonds
abroad dropped nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to
314, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI Diversified
Index.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 179 at 5:25 p.m. in
New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  ‘Much Easier’  The securities regulator plans to implement the new rule
this year allowing banks to sell the bonds in public
transactions, Luciana Dias Pires, the regulator’s superintendent
of market development, said in a telephone interview from Rio de
Janeiro.  Alberto Kiraly , vice-president of Brazil’s capital
markets association, said the sales will keep growing after the
rule change.  “Public offerings of letras financeiras will make the
issues much easier,” Kiraly said in a telephone interview from
Sao Paulo. “This will address not only middle-sized banks’
demands, but also the bigger institutions that need more capital
to support the expansion of credit in coming years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
 Tatiana Bautzer  in Sao Paulo at 
 tbautzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  