-- Baseball Curveballs `Break' Only in Batters' Minds, Scientists Suggest
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-10-13T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/baseball-curveballs-break-near-plate-only-in-batters-minds-study-says.html
San Francisco Giants pitcher  Tim Lincecum ’s curveball, which helped him win two Cy Young awards,
doesn’t break near home plate. It just appears to move when the
batter switches modes of seeing, scientists suggested.  The break, which appears to be a sudden change from the
ball’s curved path, may come from the way the human eye shifts
between central and peripheral vision, according to the
research, released today by the journal  PLoS One . The scientists
explained the “rise” in a fastball the same way.  The work is the first to explain the break and rise as
illusions, according to the authors. Previous explanations
include the idea that the hitter underestimates a ball’s speed,
said  Zhong-Lin Lu , a neuroscientist at the University of
Southern California in Los Angeles.  “The brain is tricked,” Lu said in a telephone interview.  He and his group used a  flash animation  of a descending
circle with a moving shadow that mimicked spin. When five
observers stared directly at the circle, it fell straight, and
when they focused their vision on something else, the ball
appeared to move to the side of the screen. That’s because the
brain couldn’t process both the spin and the vertical motion, Lu
said.  The researchers used the observers’ reports to figure out
the size of the break. If the eye is off the  curveball  by about
10 degrees, the size of the break is about a foot, Lu said.  A fastball “rises” for the same reason, even though in
reality, the ball is dropping, he said.  Middle Two Degrees  The illusion is possible because the  eye  is structured to
best perceive the middle two degrees of an image, using so-
called central vision. The area covered is about the size of a
thumb when a person holds their arm directly in front of them,
Lu said.  Anything outside that is  peripheral vision . Most distortion
that appears when objects go from central to peripheral vision
isn’t something people notice; the shift is usually seamless,
the authors wrote in their paper.  “When we look at a big field, everything looks continuous,
you don’t see a break between the two visions,” Lu said.
“That’s an illusion.”  Many batters tend to switch to peripheral vision when the
ball is about two-thirds of the way to the home plate. That type
of vision isn’t as good at sensing motion, and the brain gets
confused by the combination of velocity and spin, and doesn’t
track the ball’s trajectory well, according to the scientists.
When the batter switches to central vision as the ball arrives
back at the plate, the ball is in a different spot than the
batter expected, Lu said.  “What happens in baseball is that the curveball comes out
of the pitcher’s hand and gives the batter two motion signals,”
Lu said. “If you take your central vision of the ball, the
periphery vision gets confused and can’t separate the signals.
You combine them.”  The Break  The perceived abrupt change when the central vision focuses
again on the ball is the break, Lu said. Batters can be trained
to keep their central vision on the ball for the entire pitch,
so they aren’t vexed by the shift in vision, Lu said.  Lincecum, 26, is listed as the probable starter for the
Giants against the Philadelphia Phillies in the first game of
the best-of-seven National League Championship Series on Oct.
16. He won the last two Cy Young awards, the highest honor for
pitchers, in Major League Baseball’s National League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 