-- Boeing Names Ex-747 Chief Mo Yahyavi to Advise Suppliers, Including Alenia
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-10-13T16:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/boeing-names-mo-yahyavi-to-lead-supply-chain-management.html
Boeing Co.  named former 747 program
chief  Mo Yahyavi  as vice president of supply-chain management to
advise vendors including Alenia Aeronautica, which has struggled
with its role in building the 787 Dreamliner.  Yahyavi will report to Boeing Commercial Airplanes
President  Jim Albaugh  in the newly created position of vice
president and senior adviser, according to a notice sent to
employees that was confirmed by  Jim Proulx , a spokesman for the
Chicago-based company. Yahyavi joins  Ray Conner , who is general
manager of supply chain management and operations.  Yahyavi will assess and enhance Boeing suppliers’ rate
readiness, manufacturing and quality discipline, and management
systems, according to the notice. His initial focus will be on
Alenia, a unit of Rome-based  Finmeccanica SpA , which Boeing has
blamed for some setbacks to development and  delivery  of its new
Dreamliner jet.  Boeing in August reinspected its fleet of Dreamliners after
discovering flaws in horizontal stabilizers made by Alenia.
Boeing said it needed to verify that Alenia’s production
processes and workmanship were up to Boeing standards. Boeing
last year temporarily stopped production of the 787 after
finding wrinkles in Alenia’s composite-fuselage sections.  The Dreamliner, the first composite-plastic airliner, is
almost three years behind schedule, partly because of the new
supplier-driven production system Boeing created to build the
jet. The planemaker relies on partners around the world to build
complete sections of the aircraft that are then flown to
Boeing’s factory in Everett, Washington, and snapped together.  Increasing Production  Yahyavi had run the 747-8 jumbo-jet team since February
2009 before being replaced in August, a month before Boeing
announced another setback to the program that stretches its
delays to almost two years. Before that, he was in charge of the
737 P-8A Poseidon, the U.S. Navy’s conversion of the 737 into a
submarine hunter.  Suppliers are also in focus as Boeing prepares to increase
production starting next year, including a 21 percent boost to
output of 737s over the next three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  