-- Brandon Flowers, Gauguin Nudes, Schooling Rita: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-10-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/brandon-flowers-rocks-gauguin-nudes-schooling-rita-great-london-weekend.html
A 26-year-old hairdresser tires of
her shampoo-and-blow-dry routine and decides to get educated.  She turns to a 50-something university lecturer named
Frank, who tutors on the side to help pay for trips to the pub.  Together they form the pair at the heart of “Educating
Rita,” made famous by the 1983 movie starring  Michael Caine  and
 Julie Walters , and now back on the London stage.  Rita is played by Laura Dos Santos, and Frank, by veteran
Tim Pigott-Smith, who was the greedy chairman in “Enron.”  “Educating Rita,” which ends Oct. 30, is at Trafalgar
Studios, Whitehall, SW1A 2DY. Information: +44-844-871-7627 or
 http://www.trafalgar-studios.co.uk  or  Saturday  Paul Gauguin  is, to many, the brute whose late-night
confrontation with  Vincent van Gogh  led the latter to slice off
part of his ear. A new  Tate  blockbuster decouples Gauguin from
the Dutch prodigy, presenting him as a talent with frailties of
his own and an imagination that worked overtime.  Using his paintbrush, Gauguin reinvents himself as a
brigand, as a Breton in sailor stripes, and even as Jesus
Christ. He spooks up his still lifes with eerie figures, objects
and backdrops. His depictions of Tahitian beauties carry
inscriptions that not even the Tahitians could read.  You end up seeing Gauguin as the visionary that he was --
forerunner of Surrealism and abstraction -- and not just as the
guy who drove Van Gogh to self-mutilation.  Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk  or +44-20-7887-8888.  Saturday Night  Cliff Richard  -- who is playing the Royal Albert Hall --
started out as an “English Elvis” and drew praise from  John Lennon .  In a career spanning seven decades, he morphed into a
squeaky-clean figure of fun, and has now been knighted as the
music industry praised his sales of more than 260 million
records.  Sir Cliff is marking his 70th birthday with the London
concerts (through Oct. 17) and a new album, “Bold as Brass,”
covering swing standards such as  Cole Porter ’s “I’ve Got You
Under My Skin.”  Royal Albert Hall, Kensington Gore, SW7 2AP. Information:
+44-845-401-5045;  http://www.royalalberthall.com  or
 http://www.cliffrichard.org/ .  Sunday  The lead singer of the Killers,  Brandon Flowers , is many
things: workaholic, married man, father, devout Mormon -- and
now solo star.  Flowers, 29, used a few months’ break from the day job to
record “Flamingo,” and is touring in support of the album. His
show combines new songs such as “Crossfire” with versions of
his personal favorites such as the Kim Carnes hit “Bette Davis
Eyes.”  HMV Forum, 9-17 Highgate Road, Kentish Town, NW5 1JY.  Information:  http://www.brandonflowersmusic.com/ ;
 http://venues.meanfiddler.com/the-forum/home .  Cocktail Options  The weekend is the best time for cocktails in a cool bar.  Callooh Callay ( http://www.calloohcallaybar.com/ ) is a
quirky Shoreditch venue where you reach the main lounge through
an entrance that’s disguised as a wardrobe.  Purl ( http://www.purl-london.com/ ) is known for innovative
concoctions such as Champagne & Caviar, which features tiny
mango and pine balls, and orange and mandarin bubbles.  For a more classic approach, Claridge’s Bar
( http://www.claridges.co.uk/page.aspx?id=1788 ) offers a range of
Champagnes and cocktails in a beautiful Art Deco setting.  ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 