-- Brazil Finance Ministry Official Barbosa Said to Join Rousseff's Campaign
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2010-10-13T23:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/brazil-finance-ministry-official-barbosa-said-to-join-rousseff-s-campaign.html
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega ’s top economic adviser will take a two-week leave to
help presidential candidate  Dilma Rousseff  campaign for the Oct.
31 runoff vote, a person familiar with the decision said.  Nelson Barbosa , the economic policy secretary at the
 Finance Ministry , will be on vacation through Oct. 29, according
to the person, who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public. Barbosa will be temporarily replaced
at his post by deputy Dyogo de Oliveira, the person said.  Barbosa is a contender to become Brazil’s next finance
minister should Rousseff win, said  Andre Cesar , founder of
Brasilia-based political risk analysis firm CAC Consultoria.
Mantega and former Finance Minister  Antonio Palocci  are also
seen as possible candidates for the position, Cesar said.  Barbosa’s “work at the Finance Ministry is well liked at
the Presidential Palace,” Cesar said in a phone interview.
“But Mantega is not out of the game and a decision will only be
made after the vote. All are now focusing on the need to win.”  Rousseff, President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s choice to
be his successor, won the first round of voting on Oct. 3,
garnering 46.9 percent of the votes. Former Sao Paulo Governor
 Jose Serra  had 32.6 percent. A candidate needed to win a
majority of votes to avoid the Oct. 31 runoff election.  Rousseff commanded an 8 percentage-point lead over Serra, a
Vox Populi poll showed today. Lula’s former cabinet chief was
supported by 48 percent of those surveyed, while Serra had 40
percent, according to the poll commissioned by the IG website.
The poll surveyed 3,000 people on Oct. 10 and Oct. 11 and had a
margin of error of 1.8 percentage points.  “Serra became a competitive candidate when he managed to
go to the second round,” Cesar said. “That said, Dilma is the
favorite to win this election.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  