-- Brazil's Bovespa Rises to Six-Month High as Builders, Banks, Airlines Gain
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-10-13T20:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/brazil-s-bovespa-index-futures-rise-on-china-growth-optimism.html
Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index
rallied, climbing to the highest level since April, as
homebuilders, banks and airlines advanced and investors
speculated economic growth is accelerating in China.  MRV Engenharia & Participacoes SA  and  Banco Santander
Brasil SA  climbed to records while  Tam SA  jumped the most in two
months after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended adding to
holdings of stocks in those industries.  Vale SA , the world’s
largest iron-ore producer, advanced after China’s imports of the
mineral rebounded to a five-month high.  The  Bovespa  rose 1 percent to 71,674.90 at 4 p.m. New York
time after earlier touching the highest intraday level since
June 2008. Thirty-nine stocks rose on the index while 27 fell.
The real strengthened 0.9 percent to 1.6544 per dollar.  “Domestic stocks continue to be very strong,” said
 Eduardo Roche , who helps manage 3 billion reais ($1.8 billion)
at Banco Modal SA in Rio de Janeiro. “Valuations are stretched
especially in retail, but banks are showing a lot of room to
gain. The China iron-ore numbers reinforce the already favorable
outlook for Vale. Vale is cheap; it has a lot of upside.”  Brazil’s  benchmark equity gauge  rose Oct. 11 for a second
day on speculation the Federal Reserve will take further
measures to stimulate U.S. economic growth, overshadowing higher
domestic inflation forecasts. The Fed said in minutes published
yesterday, when the Brazilian market was closed for a holiday,
that it was prepared to ease monetary policy “before long.”  China Growth  China’s foreign-exchange reserves increased by a record to
$2.65 trillion at the end of September, while a 25 percent jump
in exports lifted its trade surplus to $16.9 billion,
reinforcing optimism the country will continue to lead the
global recovery. Iron-ore imports by China, the largest buyer of
the steelmaking ingredient, rebounded 18 percent in September,
indicating government measures to curb steel production haven’t
damped ore demand.  Brazilian miners, banks, homebuilders and transportation
companies will likely eclipse gains for retailers, which have
led this year’s advance in Latin America’s largest market,
Goldman Sachs said.  Vale SA  rose 0.5 percent to 47.64 reais, its 16th gain in
17 sessions. Homebuilder  MRV Engenharia  surged 6.5 percent to
18.10 reais, the highest closing price since its July 2007
initial public offering.  Banco Santander Brasil , the Brazilian
unit of Spain’s biggest bank, advanced 2.6 percent to 25.26
reais, the highest close since its IPO in October 2009.  Tam 
jumped 6 percent to 40.56 reais, the biggest gain since Lan
Airlines SA agreed to acquire the carrier on Aug. 13.  Goldman’s Prediction  “Commodity stocks we think will especially shine, as
developed-market central banks provide a continued flow of
liquidity,” Goldman strategist  Stephen Graham , who is
“bearish” on Brazilian steelmakers, wrote in a note to clients
today. “Defensive utilities and telcos may not perform in the
strong market we expect.”  Goldman expects the  Bovespa  to rise to a record 78,000 by
yearend.  Brazilian bank bond sales are climbing to a record, seven
months after the central bank freed lenders to start issuing
longer-term local debt. Sales of the notes, which are known as
letras financeiras and have a minimum maturity of two years,
surged to 5.8 billion reais in September, the busiest month
since the debut issue in April, according to Cetip SA - Balcao
de Ativos e Derivativos, Brazil’s biggest clearinghouse.  The  Bovespa  index trades at 10.6 times analysts’ 2011
earnings estimates, compared with 11 times for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 14.4 times
for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 15.3 times the reported profits
of its companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  