-- Brown, Whitman Clash Over His Aide Calling Her a ‘Whore’
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-10-13T03:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/brown-apologizes-to-whitman-in-debate-over-his-aide-calling-her-a-whore-.html
California governor candidates  Jerry Brown  and  Meg Whitman  clashed over an aide’s description of her
as a “whore,” with Brown terming it an “unfortunate” part of
a private conversation and Whitman calling it a “personal
attack.”  It was the first public apology by Brown, the state’s
Democratic attorney general, to Whitman, a Republican and former
chief executive officer of  EBay Inc. , since a recording of the
comment was made public last week, and came as the two held
their final debate ahead of the Nov. 2 election.  “Miss Whitman, I’m sorry it happened,” Brown said. “That
does not represent anything other than things that happen in a
campaign.”  Whitman, 54, and Brown, 72, are vying to lead the state
with the most people, biggest economy and worst credit rating in
the U.S. The victor will inherit a state climbing out of a $19.1
billion budget deficit, with a 12.4 percent unemployment rate as
of August.  Brown, California’s governor for two terms, from 1975 to
1983, was inadvertently recorded after leaving a voicemail
message for a Los Angeles police union official. In a
conversation about a potential campaign ad over pension issues,
an unidentified aide called Whitman a “whore.”  ‘I Was Stunned’  “I was stunned by Governor Brown’s insensitivity to what
that word means to women,” Whitman said at a news conference
following the debate at  Dominican  University of California in
San Rafael, a suburb of San Francisco. “All Californians, and
especially women, know exactly what’s going on here.”  Brown told reporters after the debate he didn’t think he
would lose votes from women as a result.  Brown led Whitman among likely women voters in an Oct. 3
poll, 47 percent to 37 percent, according to the latest survey
by Rasmussen Reports. Brown also led Whitman among all likely
voters, 46 percent to 40 percent, the poll found.  During the debate, Whitman said Brown would bring more of
“the same old, same old” politics and underscored her
experience as CEO of a Silicon Valley company, while Brown said
his government experience prepares him to dive into the job.  “I’ve been in the kitchen, I’ve taken the heat,” Brown
said. “She’s been in the bleachers, looking from the Internet
company at what’s happening in government.”  Brown spent $10.7 million on his campaign from Jan. 1 to
Sept. 30 and had a fund balance of $22.6 million, according to
the California secretary of state’s office. Whitman spent $120.6
million in that period, with $9.2 million remaining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Rafael, California, at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 