-- Buffett Says Euro Faces `Real Challenge' After Currency's Rally
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e ,   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-10-13T04:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/buffett-says-euro-faces-real-challenge-after-currency-stages-comeback.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett , who last
month called himself “a huge bull” on the U.S., said the euro
faces “a real challenge” after the currency posted its biggest
quarterly gain in eight years.  “This is a test, and I would say the test has not yet been
passed,” Buffett said in previously recorded remarks presented
yesterday at a conference outside Tel Aviv. “I’d rather watch
it from afar than nearby.”  The euro gained 11 percent in the three months ended Sept.
30 as the European Union addressed the region’s fiscal crisis
with a 750 billion euro ($1.04 trillion) rescue fund. That
bailout may not resolve the problems posed by differences among
the 16-nation currency bloc, said Buffett, Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.’s chief executive officer.  “There’s a real challenge when you try to get a large
group of countries with different cultures, different attitudes
toward fiscal policy, to share a common currency,” Buffett, 80,
said. “I think it’s going to be an interesting one to watch.”  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment e-mailed to
his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  The third-quarter rally in the euro partly reversed
declines that started in early 2010 as investors speculated that
Greece and other euro-zone countries could default on their
debts. Investors have returned to the currency, which dropped as
low as $1.1877 on June 7, as default concerns subsided and the
U.S. economy slowed. The euro slipped 0.21 cents to $1.3867
yesterday.  Currency Risks  Buffett, who has previously bet against the dollar, warned
investors at Berkshire’s annual meeting in May about the risks
of common currencies. Buffett said then that countries run a
higher risk of defaulting when they give up the ability to set
monetary policy. “You don’t default when you can print your
own” money, Buffett said in May. The European Central Bank,
based in Frankfurt, sets the policy for the euro.  “Warren Buffett’s perspective tends to be much, much
longer term -- it’s clear that the strategic problems in the
euro zone have not been resolved,” said  Boris Schlossberg ,
director of research at online currency trader GFT Forex in New
York. “The danger still very much exists that the fiscal crisis
in the periphery could definitely come back to haunt the euro.”  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis took hold at the end of 2009
after a new government in Greece said the budget deficit was
twice as big as the previous administration disclosed. Germany
contributed the biggest share of Europe’s rescue package,
driving 53 percent of its citizens to regard the euro as a “bad
thing,” according to a June poll by the German Marshall Fund of
the U.S.  Dollar Dividends  Berkshire, which Buffett  built  through four decades of
stock picks and takeovers,  generates revenue  in dollars from
units including Fruit of the Loom, Clayton Homes and Geico Corp.
The company also gets dollar-denominated dividends from its U.S.
equity portfolio of more than $40 billion. Buffett made what he
called an “all-in wager” on the U.S. with the $27 billion
purchase of railroad Burlington Northern Santa Fe in February.  In 2005 and 2006, Buffett unwound bets against the dollar
that he had called a “very long-term” position. Berkshire’s
so-called foreign-currency forward contracts fell to $1.1
billion at the end of the September 2006 from $21.5 billion in
June 2005. The contracts allowed for the purchase of foreign
currencies on a future date at a preset price.  “We might see him doing currencies again,” said  Gerald Martin , a finance professor at American University’s Kogod
School of Business in Washington. “He may think that the euro’s
gotten too strong and there’s more than likely only one way to
go.”  Derivative Contracts  Foreign currency contracts, which produced gains of $1.84
billion for Berkshire in 2004 and losses of $955 million in
2005, weren’t disclosed in a derivative table in the company’s
last annual report. Berkshire, which holds derivatives tied to
equity indexes and the creditworthiness of companies, posted
gains of $122 million last year on what it called “other”
derivative contracts.  In this year’s second quarter, Berkshire became the  biggest
shareholder  of Munich Re, the world’s biggest reinsurer.
Buffett’s firm held a stake of the Munich-based company valued
at about 1.67 billion euros as of June 22, according to
Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Tel Aviv at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  