-- Burberry Outlook Limited to `Top Half' of Estimates; Shares Fall
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-10-13T09:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/burberry-sales-rise-11-on-asia-demand-for-coats-leather.html
Burberry Group Plc , the U.K.’s
largest luxury retailer, said annual profit will be in the “top
half” of analysts’ estimates, disappointing those who expected
upgrades after second-quarter sales beat their goals.  Adjusted pretax profit will be 240 million pounds ($381
million) to 270 million pounds, Chief Financial Officer  Stacey Cartwright  said today on a call with journalists. Second-quarter
sales increased 11 percent to 382 million pounds, the London-
based company said, more than the 367.8 million-pound average
 estimate  of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Burberry  fell  as much as 4.1 percent in London trading,
having risen 73 percent this year before today. The shares have
soared as the company speeds up deliveries and uses digital
media to increase awareness and lure shoppers into stores.
Burberry is also seeking to tap growth in China and in July said
it will take control of its franchised stores in the country.  “We think the market ought to focus on the fact there is
no implied upgrade on the back of the update and the shares look
overbought,”  John Guy , an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland in
London, said in a research report today.  Burberry  shares  dropped 25 pence, or 2.4 percent, to 1,014
pence at 10:10 a.m., after falling to as low as 996 pence.  Excluding Spain, where the company closed a factory,
second-quarter sales rose to 359 million pounds, led by growth
in Asia and demand for trench coats and large leather goods.  Licensing Revenue  Burberry raised the forecast for revenue at its licensing
unit, predicting a “mid-single digit” decline compared with a
previous target of as much as 10 percent. The company cited
demand for watches, fragrances and its Burberry beauty range.  Investec Securities analysts said the consensus profit
estimate for the year is likely to rise by about 5 percent, with
scope to raise their own prediction by about 4 percent.  The luxury retailer will add 10 stores in the second half,
including five in China, and forecast a 10 percent increase in
second-half wholesale revenue, excluding China.  Gross margins  had a “material” improvement in the first
half, Cartwright said, adding she is “confident we will beat”
analyst estimates of a 4 percentage-point gain in the period.  Cartwright said Burberry is “actively seeing” Chinese
customers becoming the biggest consumers in Europe, already
accounting for 30 percent of sales in its London outlets, the
biggest group. The retailer is adding Mandarin-speaking
assistants in stores to target them.  Burberry, whose share-price surge this year has also been
helped by takeover speculation, won’t comment on bid rumors,
Cartwright said. Chief Executive Officer  Angela Ahrendts  is
“committed to this business as ever,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 