-- Burberry Sales Rise 11% on Asia, Demand for Coats, Leather
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-10-13T06:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/burberry-sales-rise-11-on-asia-demand-for-coats-leather-margins-climb.html
Burberry Group Plc , the U.K.’s
largest luxury retailer, said second-quarter sales gained 11
percent, beating analysts’ estimates, led by growth in Asia and
demand for coats and leather accessories.  Revenue in the three months ended Sept. 30 increased to 382
million pounds ($605 million) from 343 million pounds a year
earlier, London-based Burberry said today in a statement. The
average  estimate  of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg was
367.8 million pounds. Excluding Spain, where the company is
closing a factory, sales rose to 359 million pounds.  “We currently expect adjusted profit before tax for the
full year to be in the top half of market expectations,” Chief
Executive Officer  Angela Ahrendts  said in the statement.  Burberry, known for its plaid designs, is speeding up
deliveries and using digital media to increase awareness and
lure shoppers into stores as the luxury-goods industry rebounds
from its worst year on record. The company is also seeking to
tap growth in China and in July said it will take control of its
franchised stores in the country to boost earnings.  Sales are rising as “Asians keep buying and the company
looks to diversify lines by moving more into men’s, kids,
footwear and accessories,”  John Guy , an analyst at Royal Bank
of Scotland in London, wrote in an Oct. 1 note.  Burberry increased its guidance for its licensing unit
revenue to decline by a “mid-single digit” from as much as ten
percent, helped by demand for its Burberry beauty range.  Burberry  rose 1 penny, or 0.1 percent, to 1,039 pence in
London trading yesterday. The shares have risen 73 percent this
year, giving the maker of $3,595 double-breasted silk lace
trench coats a market value of 4.52 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 