-- CEZ Declines for Second Day as Czech Utility Delays Nuclear Investment
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-10-13T15:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/cez-declines-for-second-day-as-czech-utility-delays-nuclear-investment.html
CEZ AS  declined for a second day
after the Czech Republic’s largest power producer said it will
delay expansion of its Temelin nuclear power plant and on
speculation it may have to pay more for carbon credits.  The stock  fell  as much as 2 percent and closed 1.6 percent
down at 803 koruna as of 4:04 p.m. in Prague, its lowest close
since Sept. 29. Almost 1.6 million shares changed hands, more
than three times the three-month average. CEZ was the worst
performer on the  PX  equity index, which advanced 1 percent.  The company postponed the selection of suppliers for two
additional reactors at Temelin until 2011, supervisory board
member  Eduard Janota  said today. Construction may be delayed by
as much as several years, Hospodarske Noviny newspaper reported,
citing a CEZ employee it did not name. CEZ will also reduce
investments in Bulgaria, Romania and Poland, the newspaper said.  “Nuclear power plants are the cheapest source of energy
for CEZ,” analysts led by Milan Vanicek at Prague-based
brokerage Atlantik FT wrote in a note to clients today. “The
report of a possible delay is not a good one for investors and
we expect a negative market reaction.”  The government may sell carbon-dioxide emission allowances
to companies such as CEZ instead of allocating a part of them
for free, Prime Minister  Petr Necas  said yesterday. The proceeds
would be used to curtail an increase in electricity prices, as
would a special tax on solar energy, he said.  Additional Costs  CEZ could incur additional costs of 39.4 billion koruna
($2.25 billion), or 73.2 koruna per share, between 2013 and 2020
if the state-run utility were to buy all carbon credits,
according to the Atlantik report.  “A possible increase on the costs side is negative news,”
the analysts wrote. “However, all proposals are just at a
preliminary stage and even when the finalized plan is ready it
must go through parliament.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  