-- CEZ Postpones Next Step in Temelin Nuclear Expansion Tender to Next Year
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-10-13T15:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/cez-postpones-next-step-in-temelin-nuclear-expansion-tender-to-next-year.html
CEZ AS , the Czech Republic’s largest
power producer, delayed the process of choosing a supplier for
two additional reactors at the Temelin nuclear power plant until
next year, according to Supervisory Board member  Eduard Janota .  State-controlled CEZ, which was supposed to submit detailed
technical documentation to bidders Westinghouse Electric Co.,
Areva SA and a Russian-Czech group led by ZAO Atomstroyexport
this month, will not do so until 2011, Janota said today by
telephone.  CEZ may alter its strategy for Temelin because the
situation on the power market has changed, Industry and Trade
Minister  Martin Kocourek  told reporters after the weekly Cabinet
meeting in Prague today. The current delay was caused by the
bidders’ request for more time to prepare their documentation,
he said.  “There is an economic downturn and the expectations for
power demand are negative,” said  Mark Hibbs , a nuclear analyst
at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington.
“It’s a global problem. Maybe the economic forecasts aren’t
good enough to make this kind of investment.”  ‘Key Project’  Any decision on Temelin’s timetable must be debated and
approved by the company’s supervisory board which meets
tomorrow. Temelin remains a “key project” for CEZ and the
company wants to keep all bidders in the tender to secure the
best possible conditions, the power producer said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The company said a possible delay in expansion of Temelin
is “only an internal thought” at the moment. The construction
of the reactors may be delayed by several years, Hospodarske
Noviny reported today, citing unidentified CEZ executives.
Temelin, which has two operating unit at present, was to be
expanded with two new reactors by 2020 at the latest, based on
previously announced plans.  A decision about the timing of a planned expansion of
Temelin is solely the responsibility of the government, Premier
 Petr Necas  said today after the Cabinet meeting. The Czech state
security council will debate the future of the project and
comments by “middle managers” of CEZ AS about the delay are
“irrelevant,” Necas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  