-- CGG Veritas, TGS, PGS Soar After U.S. Lifts Gulf of Mexico Drilling Ban
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-10-13T09:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/cgg-tgs-and-pgs-soar-as-u-s-lifts-gulf-of-mexico-drilling-ban.html
CGGVeritas, the world’s largest
seismic surveyor for oil and gas, TGS-Nopec Geophysical Co. and
Petroleum Geo-Services ASA soared after the U.S. lifted a ban on
deepwater oil and gas drilling ahead of schedule.  CGG climbed as much 8.3 percent to 17.94 euros, the highest
since June 21, and traded at 17.46 euros as of 10:55 a.m. in
Paris. TGS soared as much as 11.4 percent to 99 kroner, the
steepest  advance  since March 2009, and PGS rose as much as 6
percent to 73.65 kroner, the highest since May 18.  “It’s a relief rally, things are going back to normal,”
 Lukas Daul , an analyst at SEB Enskilda ASA who rates PGS and TGS
a “buy,’ said by phone. “We’ll probably get going faster on
seismic than on drilling, where you need to meet a series of
requirements and you’re dependent on getting drilling permits --
that will be the new bottleneck.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  halted drilling in waters
deeper than 500 feet (152 meters) after BP Plc’s Macondo well
off Louisiana blew out April 20, killing 11 workers and causing
the biggest U.S. oil spill. Yesterday, Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  ended the ban, which was scheduled to expire Nov. 30,
while saying companies must meet new safety requirements.  “It’s now appropriate to lift the suspension on deep-water
drilling for those operators that are able to clear the higher
bar that we have set,” Salazar said on a conference call.  Seismic Struggle  The seismic market has struggled as oil producers slashed
spending last year because of the global recession, an
oversupply of vessels and the Gulf moratorium. CGG reported a 17
percent drop in second-quarter revenue, while TGS had a 10
percent decline in sales and lowered its guidance range for the
year to $550 million to $600 million.  CGG’s Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Georges Malcor  said in a
Sept. 3 interview that he didn’t anticipate a price recovery
until mid-2011 due to the vessel oversupply.  “We probably won’t see an immediate price jump,” Daul
said. “The importance of the Gulf will diminish in 2011
compared with 2009, when you had a lot of big surveys. But once
things get back to normal in the Gulf, which is the biggest
multiclient market globally, it will have significance for the
seismic companies’ late sales.”  Drilling contractors active in the Gulf also rose after the
U.S. decision.  Seadrill Gains  Seadrill Ltd., operator of the second-largest fleet of
ultra-deepwater rigs, rose as much as 3.3 percent to 176.4
kroner, and traded at 176.2 kroner as of 11 a.m. in Oslo.  Stricter regulation “for offshore will come for sure,
which will be fantastic for Seadrill,” the company’s
billionaire founder  John Fredriksen  told reporters on Sept. 1,
adding that rig rates “will surprise on the upside.”  New rules on drilling in the Gulf will add $183 million a
year to the cost of drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf, the
Interior Department said in a notice to be published tomorrow in
the Federal Register. That will mean an extra $1.42 million in
costs for each new deepwater well that uses a floating rig.
Shallow-water wells will cost an extra $90,000.  “The impact from the slight cost increases on the offshore
drilling market should be limited and the fact that the
moratorium was lifted earlier than planned bodes well for all
offshore drilling companies,”  Patrick Rafaisz , an analyst at
Bank Vontobel AG, said in a note today. “The general sentiment
towards offshore drilling companies is likely to improve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  