-- Chile Is Rescuing Trapped Miners Through Escape Tube
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2010-10-13T10:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/chile-frees-first-of-33-miners-in-world-s-longest-underground-mine-rescue.html
Chilean rescue workers hoisted into
the desert the first nine of 33 miners who were trapped
underground for more than two months where they were greeted by
their families and President  Sebastian Pinera  in an operation
that gripped television viewers around the world.  The first miner, Florencio Avalos, emerged from the San
Jose copper mine at 11:12 p.m. New York time after being trapped
in a tunnel for 69 days more than 600 meters (1,970 feet)
underground, according to a broadcast by state television
channel TVN. The operation, to be overseen by Pinera in the
Atacama desert, is scheduled to run another 24 to 48 hours.  “I am so overwhelmed with emotion because it’s been so
long since we have seen him,” Avalos’s father Alfonso said in
comments broadcast by TVN. “I am so content, so happy. Thank
God that he emerged so strong.”  Avalos embraced his wife and son and President  Pinera 
before being taken to a mobile hospital as rescuers shouted
“Long Live Chile.” Freed miner Mario Sepulveda joked with
rescuers and Pinera.  The four-meter long “Phoenix” capsule painted in the red,
white and blue colors of the Chilean flag is acting as an
elevator, hoisting the miners to the surface through a 26-inch
wide rescue hole. More than 1 billion people watched the rescue
live on television networks around the world, TVN reported.  Embraces and Confetti  Families embraced and threw confetti at the mine site where
they have camped for more than two months to await the rescue of
the men. They had lit fires to fend off the cold. Police erected
barricades to protect the families from hundreds of reporters.  “I’m so happy; it’s historic,” said Lily Ramirez, wife of
63-year-old Mario Gomez, the oldest miner. “My husband is still
down there. I just hope they all get out okay.”  The miners were discovered alive on Aug. 22 after being
trapped since Aug. 5, when the mine’s access collapsed. The
miners’ only contact with the outside world was through drill
holes that were used to discover them and through which they
receive food, water and medicine.  The survival of the San Jose miners surpasses a 25-day
rescue of three coal miners in a flooded mine in Guizhou, China
in 2009.  “Chileans and the entire world are not going to forget
this night,” Pinera told the more than 1,000 reporters gathered
at the mine site. “When Chile unites, and it always happens in
adversity, we are capable of big things.”  National Monument  Pinera said the San Jose mine will be converted into a
national monument to reflect hope for future generations.  He wore the same red jacket he used in the aftermath of an
8.8-magnitude earthquake that struck Chile in February, and will
stay near the rescue site alongside Bolivian counterpart,  Evo Morales .  Pinera’s approval rating has increased since his government
started the rescue operation more than two months ago, while
Mining Minister  Laurence Golborne  has become the most popular
member of the president’s cabinet.  Pinera’s popularity grew to 57 percent in September from 54
percent in a May poll, Santiago-based research group Center for
the Study of Contemporary Reality, or CERC, said in a report
published Oct. 7. The Sept. 3-13 poll of 1,200 people has a
margin of error of 3 percentage points.  The miners are being split into three groups for the
rescue. The first will provide information to rescuers and
possibly help with the operation, Health Minister  Jaime Manalich 
said. The weakest will then come out, followed by the rest. The
last to be rescued will be shift foreman Luis Urzua.  ‘In Knots’  “I’m nervous, my stomach is in knots,” Maria Segovia, the
sister of trapped miner Dario Segovia, said in an interview at
the site dubbed “Camp Hope.”  The 33 men were given meals rich in minerals and protein to
prevent nausea and stabilize blood pressure during the ascent
and examined remotely by medical officials on the surface. Ten
have been identified by authorities as being the most in need of
special care, Manalich said.  They’ll wear elastic bands on their lower extremities and a
waistband during the 15- to 20-minute ascent that will help
ensure proper blood circulation and prevent a reduction in
arterial pressure and possible fainting, the health minister
said. Rescue workers will supply the miners with emergency
oxygen in case dust on the ascent causes breathing problems.  The miners want to wait until all 33 are brought to the
surface so they can travel to the hospital as a group, the
health minister said today. Authorities are instead seeking to
fly miners to hospital as soon as possible so they can undergo
examinations and any necessary treatment, Manalich said.  “Miners are fighters,” said Mario Castillo, 39, who has
worked to bring lighting and equipment to the rescue site during
the past two months. “The big lesson from all of this is that
we have to be united. This is for the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nathan Crooks  in Copiapo, Chile at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  