-- Chile Mine Rescue Set to Conclude Today, Pinera Says
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-13T21:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/chile-rescue-may-conclude-today-as-pace-faster-than-planned-pinera-says.html
The freeing of 33 copper miners
trapped half a mile underground is proceeding faster than
previously thought and may conclude today as rescuers surpassed
the halfway stage, President  Sebastian Pinera  said.  “We’re advancing at about 40 minutes per rescue while
initially we calculated an hour,” Pinera told reporters in
televised remarks. “We have given an example to the world of
commitment, of effort, of hope. I’m convinced that Chile’s
greatest treasure isn’t copper, it’s the miners.”  The four-meter long “Phoenix” capsule painted in the red,
white and blue colors of the Chilean flag had hoisted 24 of the
33 miners to the surface through a 26-inch wide hole as of 4:59
p.m. New York time. The capsule hasn’t suffered damage and the
health of the men freed so far is “more than satisfactory,”
Health Minister  Jaime Manalich  said from Copiapo hospital.  More than 1 billion people watched the culmination of the
two-month rescue live on television networks around the world,
state television channel TVN reported. Codelco, the state-owned
copper producer running the rescue, has budgeted $15 million for
the operation, a company official briefed on the matter said by
telephone today. More than 100 Codelco staff have been involved,
the official said, declining to be named citing company policy.  ‘Tremendously Inspirational’  U.S. President Barack Obama watched the rescue’s
developments last night, his spokesman, Robert Gibbs, said in
Washington. Obama views it as a “tremendously inspirational
story, a story with a happy ending,” Gibbs told reporters at
the White House. It was inspiring “watching people come
together to put their best efforts forth.”  The miners have been trapped since an access tunnel caved
in Aug. 5 at Cia. Minera San Esteban Primera SA’s San Jose
copper and gold mine. They were discovered alive Aug. 22.  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and other mining companies, as well as
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, assisted in
the rescue. The survival of the San Jose miners surpasses a 25-
day rescue of three coal miners from a flooded mine in Guizhou,
China, in 2009.  The first miner rescued, Florencio Avalos, emerged from the
mine at 11:12 p.m. New York time yesterday after being trapped
for 69 days in a tunnel more than 600 meters (1,970 feet)
underground.  “I am so overwhelmed with emotion because it’s been so
long since we have seen him,” Avalos’s father Alfonso said in
comments broadcast by TVN. “I am so content, so happy. Thank
God that he emerged so strong.”  ‘Long Live Chile’  Avalos embraced his wife and son and President  Pinera 
before being taken to a mobile hospital as rescuers shouted
“Long Live Chile.” The second freed miner, Mario Sepulveda,
joked with rescuers and offered a rock to Pinera as a souvenir.  “I was with God and I was with the devil,” Sepulveda said
in televised remarks. “They both fought for me. God won.”  Families embraced and threw confetti at the mine site where
they have camped for more than two months to await the rescue of
the men. They had lit fires to fend off the cold. Police erected
barricades to protect the families from throngs of reporters.  Pinera said earlier today that the San Jose mine will be
converted into a national monument to reflect hope for future
generations.  ‘Big Things’  “Chileans and the entire world are not going to forget
this night,” Pinera told the more than 1,000 reporters gathered
at the mine site. “When Chile unites, and it always happens in
adversity, we are capable of big things.”  San Jose produces about 4,000 metric tons a year of copper
and 59,000 grams of gold, according to Gustavo Lagos, director
of mining studies at Chile’s  Catholic University . Chile is the
world’s biggest copper producer.  Pinera, wearing the same red jacket he used after an 8.8-
magnitude earthquake struck Chile in February, was joined at
rescue site by his Bolivian counterpart,  Evo Morales . The rescue
is like removing men alive from a cemetery, Morales told
reporters in televised remarks.  Pinera’s approval rating has increased since his government
started the rescue operation more than two months ago, while
Mining Minister  Laurence Golborne  has become the most popular
member of the president’s cabinet.  Pinera’s popularity climbed to 57 percent in September from
54 percent in a previous poll, Santiago-based research group
Center for the Study of Contemporary Reality, or CERC, said in a
report published Oct. 7. The Sept. 3-13 poll of 1,200 people has
a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  The miners were split into three groups for the rescue, the
first providing information to rescuers to help with the
operation,  Manalich  said. The last man to be rescued will be
shift foreman Luis Urzua.  ‘In Knots’  “I’m nervous, my stomach is in knots,” Maria Segovia, the
sister of trapped miner Dario Segovia, said in an interview at
the site dubbed “Camp Hope.” She spoke before today’s rescue
of her brother, the 15th miner freed.  The 33 men were given meals rich in minerals and protein to
prevent nausea and stabilize blood pressure during the ascent.
They’ll wear elastic bands on their lower extremities and a
waistband during the 15- to 20-minute ascent to help ensure
proper blood circulation and prevent a reduction in arterial
pressure and possible fainting, the health minister said.  The miners wanted to wait until all 33 are brought to the
surface so they can travel to the hospital as a group, the
health minister said yesterday. Instead authorities are flying
miners to hospital as soon as possible so they can undergo
examinations and any necessary treatment, Manalich said.  Some of the men may leave hospital tomorrow while others,
suffering from dental infections and pneumonia, will stay
longer, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Craze  in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  