-- China Trade Surplus Caps Biggest Quarter Since 2008
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-13T04:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/china-trade-surplus-caps-biggest-quarter-since-2008-adding-yuan-pressure.html
China, the world’s biggest exporter,
posted a $16.9 billion trade surplus for September, capping the
largest quarterly excess since the financial crisis in 2008 as
pressure mounts for a stronger yuan.  Exports  rose 25.1 percent from a year earlier and imports
climbed 24.1 percent, the customs bureau said on its website
today. The third-quarter trade gap was $65.6 billion, the most
since a $114 billion surplus in the final three months of 2008.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  yesterday
suggested that China’s yuan policy is distorting the global
currency system by forcing other emerging market countries to
intervene. Yuan forwards rose toward a two-year high after the
trade data and minutes showing that Federal Reserve policy
makers were prepared to ease monetary policy last month, a move
that could increase money flows to Asia.  Today’s numbers are “unlikely to do much to reduce
international pressure on China to move faster on the
currency,” said  Brian Jackson , an emerging-markets strategist
at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong. “Beijing has plenty of
scope to allow appreciation in the months ahead.”  The September surplus compares with the $17.8 billion
median estimate of 24 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. In
August, the excess was $20 billion.  Yuan Climbs  The yuan strengthened 0.1 percent to 6.6681 per dollar as
of 11:46 a.m. local time in Shanghai and non-deliverable
 forwards  rose 0.2 percent to 6.4496, suggesting appreciation of
more than 3 percent in the next year.  European and U.S. officials argue that a stronger Chinese
currency would aid the global recovery by stoking demand within
the nation and reducing international economic imbalances.
China’s  gross domestic product  expanded 10.3 percent in the
second quarter as the nation replaced Japan as the world’s
second-biggest economy.  “What’s happening is, as China holds its currency down,
their currencies are moving up,” Geithner said in an interview
on “ Charlie Rose ” scheduled to air yesterday on PBS and today on
Bloomberg Television, referring to other emerging markets’
exchange rates. Other nations “are having to work very hard to
make sure they’re not at an unfair disadvantage with China.”  Chinese officials can point to improvements in the trade
balance. Imports rose to a record value of $128.1 billion,
limiting the surplus to the smallest in five months.  Still, the trade gap was 31 percent bigger than a year
earlier, a comparison with a previously published figure showed.  Narrowing Surplus  “China’s surplus may gradually narrow as the nation’s
sustained growth momentum boosts imports and external demand
wanes amid a slowdown in developed economies,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , a Hong Kong-based economist and strategist at Credit
Agricole, before today’s release. Kowalczyk said smaller
surpluses as a proportion of gross domestic product imply slower
gains in the yuan.  “China’s foreign trade is notably better than pre-crisis
levels,” the customs bureau said in today’s statement.  September export growth was less than the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey for a 26 percent gain, and compared
with a 34.4 percent jump in August. Bank of America-Merrill
Lynch said that a slowdown in year-on-year trade growth was
because of a high base for comparison.  Import growth  was close to the median forecast for a 25
percent advance following a 35.2 percent increase in August.  U.S. Legislation  The U.S. Senate will consider legislation that would allow
duties to be imposed on Chinese imports because of the nation’s
failure to allow bigger currency gains, according to Senator
 Charles Schumer  of New York. Companies such as Caterpillar Inc.,
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Citigroup Inc., have warned that the
measure may lead to retaliation.  The yuan has gained more than 2 percent since the
government in June stopped pegging the currency to the greenback
after almost two years.  Debate about competitive devaluations dominated
International Monetary Fund meetings last week. Geithner renewed
his call for China to let its currency rise and Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs a panel of euro-area
finance ministers, said the yuan is “more than undervalued.”  Chinese central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said his
nation needs to avoid the “shock therapy” of excessive yuan
appreciation and “very fast” gains probably wouldn’t end
global economic imbalances. Appreciation of 20 percent to 40
percent would exacerbate Chinese unemployment and cause social
upheaval, according to Premier Wen.  Bull Market  China’s economy has rebounded from the global recession,
with the  Shanghai Composite Index  yesterday entering a so-called
bull market, rising 20 percent from a July low. The measure
remains down for 2010.  Investors and companies are paying a record premium to
obtain yuan in Hong Kong’s offshore market, taking advantage of
looser restrictions to stock up on a currency appreciating at
the fastest pace in five years.  The yuan in Hong Kong closed yesterday at 6.5400 per
dollar, 2 percent more than the 6.6734 spot rate in Shanghai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The world “has to be patient” at the pace of yuan gains,
 Michael Pettis , a finance professor at Peking University, wrote
in a commentary published by Bloomberg News yesterday.  “Ideally, China should spend the next eight to 10 years
slowly raising the value of the yuan while boosting wages and
interest rates, and limiting credit growth,” Pettis said. “It
can’t do any of these things too quickly without undermining
growth and causing unemployment to surge.”  -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  Jay Wang  in Singapore.
Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Chris Anstey .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  