-- China Foreign-Exchange Reserves Jump to $2.65 Trillion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-13T10:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/china-s-currency-reserves-surge-to-record-fueling-calls-for-stronger-yuan.html
China’s foreign-exchange reserves,
the world’s largest, surged by a record to $2.65 trillion at the
end of September, adding fuel to complaints that the nation’s
curbs on gains in the yuan are undermining the global recovery.  Currency holdings rose about $194 billion in the third
quarter, today’s statement from the People’s Bank of China
showed. September exports were the second-highest on record at
$145 billion, a separate customs bureau report showed.  “With hostilities in the currency war already declared, a
record increase in FX reserves in the third quarter and a near
record haul for exporters in September hangs a target around the
neck of China’s exchange rate regime,” said  Tom Orlik , a
Beijing-based analyst for Stone & McCarthy Research Associates
who formerly worked for the U.K. Treasury.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  suggested
yesterday that China’s policy of buying dollars to hold down the
yuan is distorting the global currency system by forcing other
emerging-market nations to intervene. Yuan forwards traded near
a two-year high today on anticipation Premier  Wen Jiabao  will
allow greater gains and on signs the Federal Reserve may inject
more U.S. stimulus, a move that could spur capital flows to Asia.  Non-deliverable yuan  forwards  rose 0.1 percent to 6.4529
per dollar as of 5:30 p.m. in Hong Kong, suggesting appreciation
of more than 3 percent in the next year. The yuan was at 6.6641.  Currency Tensions  In the latest sign of international tension over currencies,
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said today that China and
South Korea should “take responsible actions” in relation to
their exchange rates. Japan’s intervention in currency markets
last month brought criticism from policy makers in Europe and
politicians in the U.S.  Exchange rates dominated an International Monetary Fund
meeting in Washington last week on concern that officials are
relying on cheaper currencies to aid growth, risking retaliatory
devaluations and trade barriers. China was accused of
undervaluing the yuan, while low  interest rates  in developed
economies were blamed for flooding emerging markets with capital.  Weakness in the greenback, especially against the euro,
probably accounted for the bulk of the third-quarter increase in
the reserves by increasing the dollar value of Chinese assets
held in other currencies, according to  Stephen Green , a
Shanghai-based economist for Standard Chartered Plc who had the
closest forecast for the reserves in a Bloomberg News survey. In
the second quarter, the euro slumped against the dollar.  ‘Hot Money’  The median forecast in the survey of eight economists was
for an increase to $2.5 trillion.  Exports  rose a less-than-
forecast 25.1 percent from a year earlier in September and
imports climbed 24.1 percent, leaving a trade surplus of $16.9
billion.  The  trade surplus  and inflows of cash from foreign direct
investment and so-called hot money betting on gains by the
Chinese currency also drive up reserves, which rose 16.5 percent
by the end of September from a year earlier.  “What’s happening is, as China holds its currency down,
their currencies are moving up,” Geithner said in an interview
on “ Charlie Rose ” aired yesterday on PBS and today on
Bloomberg Television, referring to other emerging markets’
exchange rates. Other nations “are having to work very hard to
make sure they’re not at an unfair disadvantage with China.”  The yuan is strengthening at the fastest pace in five years,
advancing 1.7 percent last month against the dollar after the
end of an almost two-year peg in June.  China’s Case  Chinese officials can also point to improvements in the
trade balance.  Imports  rose to a record value of $128.1 billion,
limiting the surplus to the smallest in five months. For
January-through-September, the trade excess was $120.6 billion,
down 10.5 percent from a year earlier, the customs bureau said.  Chinese banks extended a more-than-estimated 595.5 billion
yuan ($89 billion) in new local-currency  loans  last month, the
People’s Bank of China said in today’s statement. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 18 economists was 500
billion yuan.  Banks have now lent about 6.3 trillion yuan this year and
can extend a maximum of about 400 billion yuan in each of the
final three months if the government is to meet a target of
limiting new lending to 7.5 trillion yuan.  M2, the broadest measure of  money supply , rose 19 percent
in September from a year earlier, the central bank added. That
compared with economists’ 18.9 percent median estimate.  U.S. Legislation  Finance ministers and central bankers at the Washington
meetings last week pledged to improve cooperation, yet did
little to show how they would alter their ways beyond agreeing
to let the IMF study the matter.  The U.S. Senate will consider legislation that would allow
duties to be imposed on Chinese imports because of the nation’s
failure to allow bigger currency gains, according to Senator
 Charles Schumer  of New York. Companies such as Caterpillar Inc.,
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Citigroup Inc., have warned that the
measure may lead to retaliation.  “A lot of people feel an undervalued renminbi costs
jobs,” Senator  Max Baucus , chairman of the Finance Committee
and a Montana Democrat, told reporters in Beijing today, using
another term for China’s currency. He added that the legislation
to address China’s currency policy could pass the Senate.  -- Paul Panckhurst ,  Zheng Lifei ,  Jay Wang ,  Michael Forsythe .
Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Chris Anstey .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lifei Zheng in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  