-- China Stocks Rise, Extending Bull Market Rally; Developers, Autos Advance
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-13T07:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/china-stocks-fluctuate-energy-producers-drop-anhui-conch-baoshan-rise.html
China’s stocks  rose for a fifth day,
extending the benchmark index’s bull market rally, after exports
climbed last month and the government said it will promote sales
of construction material in rural areas.  China Vanke Co.  and Poly Real Estate Group Co. jumped at
least 6.8 percent, leading a gauge of property stocks to the
biggest gain in almost five months. Anhui Conch Cement Co., the
largest cement maker, advanced to the highest in two months on
the prospect higher sales will boost earnings.  SAIC Motor Corp. 
paced gains among automakers after domestic vehicle sales
accelerated last month.  “China’s economy will grow steadily as there’s no major
worry over a big slump in external demand,” said  Zhang Ling , a
fund manager at Shanghai River Fund Management Co. “The market
is becoming more optimistic about the economy.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  climbed 19.95, or 0.7 percent,
to 2,861.36 at the 3 p.m. close, the highest since May 5. The
 CSI 300 Index  added 1.4 percent to 3,217.58. The Shanghai gauge
has rebounded 21 percent from the 2010 low on July 5, surpassing
the threshold some investors consider the beginning of a bull
market, on signs that economic growth will remain resilient.  The nation’s exports rose 25.1 percent from a year earlier
and imports climbed 24.1 percent, the customs bureau said on its
website today. China posted a $16.9 billion trade surplus for
September, capping the largest quarterly excess since the
financial crisis in 2008 as pressure mounts for a stronger yuan.  A measure of property stocks jumped 4.2 percent, the most
since May 24. Vanke, the biggest listed property developer,
jumped 6.8 percent to 9.40 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the second
largest, surged the 10 percent daily limit to 15 yuan.  Gemdale
Corp. , the four largest, climbed 7.3 percent to 7.33 yuan.  Low Valuations  The property gauge has slumped 20 percent this year, the
worst performer among the five industry groups of the Shanghai
Composite, after the government raised down payment and
suspended loans for third-home purchases.  “Valuations of property stocks are low,” said  Shen Aiqin ,
an analyst at GF Securities Co. in Guangzhou, who has an
“overweight” rating on the property industry. “As investors
turn more optimistic about the economy, these cyclical stocks
such as developers are what investors buy aggressively.”  Chinese banks extended 595.5 billion yuan ($89 billion) in
new local-currency  loans  last month, the People’s Bank of China
said today. That compared with the median 500 billion yuan
forecast in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 18 economists. M2, the
broadest measure of  money supply , rose 19 percent in September
from a year earlier, the central bank added. That compared with
economists’ 18.9 percent median estimate.  Low Valuations  China will become “extremely cautious” in raising
interest rates in order to prevent hot money inflows and to
control the pace of yuan appreciation, Zhang Monan, a researcher
with the State Information Center, wrote in a commentary
published in the China Securities Journal newspaper today.  Anhui Conch paced the advance for cement produces, rising 4
percent to 25.78 yuan, the biggest gain since Aug. 5.  Gansu
Qilianshan Cement Group Co.  added 3.4 percent to 18.97 yuan.
Tangshan Jidong Cement Co. advanced 5.3 percent to 24.28 yuan.  China will start trials of a program to promote sales of
construction materials, focusing on cement, in rural areas, the
Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development said yesterday
after the market closed.  SAIC, China’s largest carmaker, surged 4.7 percent to 19.84
yuan.  FAW Car Co. , which makes passenger cars in China with
Volkswagen AG, gained 5.1 percent to 21.85 yuan.  Wholesale deliveries of passenger cars rose 19.3 percent to
1.21 million, accelerating from 18.7 percent in August, the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Consumer Stocks  Kweichow Moutai Co., China’s biggest producer of baijiu
liquor by market value, led consumer stocks lower on concern
recent gains were excessive. An  index  tracking consumer staples
producers fell 1.8 percent, the most since Sept. 29 and the
biggest loss among the CSI 300’s 10 industry groups. The
consumer gauge has rallied 4.9 percent this year, compared with
a 10 percent loss by the broader measure.  Kweichow Moutai dropped 3.4 percent to 161 yuan. The stock
last week climbed to its highest level in 10 months.  Wuliangye
Yibin Co. , the second biggest, lost 3.2 percent to 33.15 yuan.
Tsingtao Brewery Co., the nation’s second-largest brewery by
volume, slid 4 percent to 36.97 yuan.  Asia’s Worst  The Shanghai Composite is Asia’s worst performer this year,
with a 13 percent decline through yesterday as the government
boosted measures to slow the economy and cool property prices.
At the same time, Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite Index rallied 40
percent, Thailand’s SET Index jumped 33 percent and Malaysia’s
FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index rose 17 percent.  China stocks  will extend their rally as investors increase
purchases in a market that lagged behind gains in Asia,
according to Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s  Mark Mobius .  The Shanghai index’s rise above its 200-day moving average
is a “positive sign” that signals further gains for the
benchmark gauge, according to Schaeffer’s Investment Research.  The moving average may climb to April highs after the
Chinese stock gauge exceeded the average for the first time in
about six months yesterday, said  Ryan Detrick , a Cincinnati-
based analyst who studies chart patterns to predict prices at
Schaeffer’s Investment. The 200-day moving average rose as high
as 3,097 in April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editor:  Allen Wan , Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  