-- China's Leaders Prepare to Meet as Elders Slam Censorship of Wen
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-14T04:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/china-s-communist-elite-meet-in-face-of-public-call-for-freedom-of-speech.html
China’s Communist Party elite gather
in Beijing tomorrow in the wake of a public challenge from
retired officials who accuse some leaders of censoring calls by
Premier  Wen Jiabao  for greater political openness.  The 200-odd Central Committee  members  are set to discuss
personnel changes and a new five-year economic plan that starts
in 2011. Vice President  Xi Jinping  may take a position on the
party’s military commission, paving the way for him to replace
General Secretary and President  Hu Jintao , who steps down in
late 2012, political analysts say.  In the run-up to the plenum, Wen has called for a
relaxation of state control of social and political affairs. At
last year’s session, Hu advocated more “intra-party
democracy,” to give lower-level officials a greater hand in
appointments and policymaking.  “Wen has called for fundamental political reform,” said
 Victor Shih , a professor at Northwestern University in Evanston,
Illinois who analyzes Chinese politics. “This may be a ploy by
Hu to” make changes within the party and encompass more radical
reforms, he said.  Past plenums have provided turning points in the party’s
history. A gathering in 1959 in the mountain resort of Lushan
was the scene of a failed move to criticize the economic
policies of the late Chairman  Mao Zedong , allowing him to cement
his leadership. A meeting in 1978 saw the rise of  Deng Xiaoping ,
who led China’s opening to outside investment.  ‘Black Hands’  A group of retired officials drawn from the military, state
media and academia, this week accused “invisible black hands”
of suppressing a speech last month in which Wen called for
greater political openness to match economic gains. The open
 letter  by party elders including Li Rui, Mao’s former secretary
and a participant at the Lushan plenum, was published on the
Internet Oct. 11.  “What right does the  Central Propaganda Department  have to
muzzle the speech of the premier?” the letter said, referring
to the party branch that focuses on ideology. “What right does
it have to rob the people of our nation of their right to know
what the premier said?”  The letter’s release two days before the central committee
meeting reflects an internal debate over the future of political
change, said  Huang Jing , a visiting professor at National
University of Singapore’s Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy.
It may also be a sign the reformist camp is in retreat following
the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to imprisoned Chinese
democracy activist  Liu Xiaobo , he said.  ‘Look Bad’  The award was widely viewed in the party as “a deliberate
move to make the Chinese government look bad” and this besieged
mentality has emboldened opponents of political reform, Huang
said. Publicly releasing the letter was a “desperate last
effort” on the part of reformists, he said.  Liu was given the prize for his struggle to promote human
rights and democracy, the Nobel committee said Oct. 8. The 54-
year-old writer was jailed for 11 years for subversion in 2009
for his role in organizing Charter 08, an  open letter  calling
for direct elections and freedom of assembly.  Willy Wo-Lap Lam , an adjunct professor of history at the
Chinese University of Hong Kong, said Wen “has come under quite
heavy criticism by the conservatives,” including propaganda
chief  Li Changchun , a fellow member of the ruling Politburo
Standing Committee.  ‘Minority of One’  “Wen is pretty much a minority of one within the Politburo
Standing Committee,” Lam said.  Another member of that nine-man group, Vice President Xi,
should gain the post of vice chairman of the party’s military
commission, which controls the People’s Liberation Army, Lam,
Huang and Shih said. The appointment will allow him to build
ties with the military in preparation for taking power.  Should Xi not be appointed to that post, it may be “a sign
of top-level disagreement on the successor,” Shih said.  The central committee named in 2007 had 204 members and 167
alternates. In addition to the top leaders, members include
China Securities Regulatory Commission Chairman  Shang Fulin  and
China Construction Bank Corp. Chairman  Guo Shuqing .  Of the  303  Chinese academics, lawyers and retired party
officials who signed Charter 08, five were also signatories in
the latest petition, based on a list published by Human Rights
in China. These include Hu Jiwei, former editor of the party’s
mouthpiece, People’s Daily, and Du Guang, a retired professor of
the  Central Party School .  ‘Network Error’  A link to the Chinese-language version of the letter
couldn’t be opened inside China, with screens appearing showing
“network error.” A search in Chinese for Li Rui’s name on
Google.com in China generated the following message on Microsoft
Corp’s Web browser: “Internet Explorer cannot display the
webpage.”  Instructions to censor comments in the domestic media are
made by anonymous officials from the propaganda department,
which is assuming a role senior to the State Council, the
highest authority in the nation, the latest letter said.
Addressed to the legislature, it called for the party to respect
the  constitutional  guarantee of free speech.  Hong Kong  “When our country was founded in 1949, our people cried
that they had been liberated, that they were now their own
masters,” the letter said. “But even today, 61 years after the
founding of our nation, after 30 years of opening and reform, we
have not yet attained freedom of speech and freedom of the press
to the degree enjoyed by the people of  Hong Kong  under colonial
rule.”  The letter blamed the “invisible black hands” for
squelching Wen’s comments domestically, including an August
speech in the southern city of Shenzhen in which he called for
more political openness. Wen’s comments on a future China with
more freedom during a Cable News Network interview last month
were not mentioned in domestic accounts, the letter said.  “I believe I and all the Chinese people have such a
conviction that China will make continuous progress, and the
people’s wishes for and needs for democracy and freedom are
irresistible,” Wen said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” program
taped Sept. 23 in New York. “I will not fall in spite of the
strong wind and harsh rain, and I will not yield until the last
day of my life.”  -- Michael Forsythe . Editors:  Ben Richardson ,  Bill Austin .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  