-- Copper, Product Imports Into China Decline for First Time in Three Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-13T06:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/china-copper-products-imports-drop-for-first-month-in-three-in-september.html
Copper  imports  by China, the world’s
largest consumer, dropped for the first time in three months, as
lower domestic prices reduced the appeal of overseas purchases.  Shipments of copper and products declined 2.9 percent to
368,410 metric tons from 379,527 tons in August, the General
Administration of Customs said on its website today.  Chinese copper imports climbed in July and August as
traders sought to profit by purchasing the metal in London and
selling it in Shanghai.  Copper stockpiles  monitored by the
Shanghai Futures Exchange have mostly been falling since the
beginning of May, and were at 94,174 tons as of last week.  “The September arrivals were mostly booked in July, and
the arbitrage wasn’t that profitable compared with the previous
month,” Bonnie Liu, an analyst at Macquarie Securities Ltd.,
said by phone from Shanghai.  Arbitrage had been profitable for some of July, according
to Bloomberg data. Shipping may take up to two months.  Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange rose as
much as 0.8 percent to $8,415 a ton, the highest level since
July 2008, and was at $8,368.5 at 1:42 p.m. in Singapore.  “The high price may not necessarily damp demand,” Peng
Qiang, an analyst at Cofco Futures Co., said by phone from
Beijing. “It may take some time for users to get accustomed to
the high prices. I still expect the consumption to rise in
November and December.”  Higher Prices  Copper prices may be more than 10 percent higher on average
in the fourth quarter as demand outpaces supply growth, and may
continue climbing in the first half of 2011, said Lee Key Man,
head of the international goods bureau at the Public Procurement
Service of South Korea, Asia’s third-biggest base metals buyer.  The agency, which stockpiles mostly non-ferrous metals, is
prioritizing purchases of copper and tin in the coming months
because the metals are likely to be in “short supply,” Lee
said in an interview today, without elaborating on buying plans.  Diego Hernandez, chief executive officer of Codelco, the
world’s biggest copper producer, said yesterday in an interview
that he expects a “tighter” copper market next year because of
continued demand from China and a lack of new supply.  Imports of aluminum and the metal’s products declined 9.4
percent to 65,772 tons from 72,628 tons in August, customs data
showed. Chinese aluminum and steel plants have started to
suspend part of their operations in response to Beijing’s plan
to meet the goal of cutting energy use per unit of economic
output by 20 percent in the five years through 2010.  Aluminum Cuts  China’s Henan province, the country’s largest aluminum
producing region, is going to cut output by nearly 20 percent in
the fourth quarter, said the Henan Nonferrous Metals Industry
Association said on its website on Oct. 9. Three smelters in
Guangxi region will shut down about 250,000 tons of annual
aluminum capacity before the end of this year, said Wan Ling,
Beijing-based analyst at CRU International Ltd. on Sept. 13.  Still, “even taking the energy saving target into account,
the demand side may not be affected much, as fabricators consume
much less electricity than aluminum makers, so the local
government won’t target them as priorities,” Peng said.  China also imported 410,000 tons of scrap copper, up 2.5
percent from 400,000 tons in August, data from the Beijing-based
customs showed.  -- Helen Sun . Editors: Richard Dobson, Jarrett Banks.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  