-- China Trade Surplus Caps Biggest Quarter Since 2008
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-13T05:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/china-s-quarterly-trade-surplus-widens-most-since-2008-adds-yuan-pressure.html
China, the world’s biggest
exporter, posted a $16.9 billion trade surplus for September,
capping the largest quarterly excess since the financial
crisis in 2008 as pressure mounts for a stronger yuan.  Exports  rose 25.1 percent from a year earlier and
imports climbed 24.1 percent, the customs bureau said on its
website today. The third-quarter trade gap was $65.6 billion,
the most since a $114 billion surplus in the final three
months of 2008.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  yesterday
suggested that China’s yuan policy is distorting the global
currency system by forcing other emerging market countries to
intervene. Yuan forwards traded near a two-year high today on
anticipation Premier  Wen Jiabao  will allow greater gains and
signs the Federal Reserve may inject more U.S. stimulus, a
move that could spur capital flows to Asia.  Today’s numbers are “unlikely to do much to reduce
international pressure on China to move faster on the
currency,” said  Brian Jackson , an emerging-markets
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong. “Beijing
has plenty of scope to allow appreciation in the months
ahead.”  The September surplus compares with the $17.8 billion
median estimate of 24 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.
In August, the excess was $20 billion.  Yuan Climbs  The yuan strengthened 0.1 percent to 6.6679 per dollar
as of 1:21 p.m. local time in Shanghai and non-deliverable
 forwards  traded at 6.4510, suggesting appreciation of more
than 3 percent in the next year.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. raised its
forecast for the yuan’s value at year-end to 6.5 from a
previous estimate of 6.63, citing the quarterly surplus and
political pressure linked to U.S. elections.  European and U.S. officials argue that a stronger
Chinese currency would aid the global recovery by stoking
demand within the nation and reducing international economic
imbalances. China’s  gross domestic product  expanded 10.3
percent in the second quarter as the economy replaced Japan’s
as the world’s second-biggest.  ‘Unfair Disadvantage’  “What’s happening is, as China holds its currency down,
their currencies are moving up,” Geithner said in an
interview on “ Charlie Rose ” scheduled to air yesterday on
PBS and today on Bloomberg Television, referring to other
emerging markets’ exchange rates. Other nations “are having
to work very hard to make sure they’re not at an unfair
disadvantage with China.”  Chinese officials can point to improvements in the trade
balance. Imports rose to a record value of $128.1 billion,
limiting the surplus to the smallest in five months. For
January-through-September, the trade excess was $120.6
billion, down 10.5 percent from a year earlier, the customs
bureau said.  “China’s surplus may gradually narrow as the nation’s
sustained growth momentum boosts imports and external demand
wanes amid a slowdown in developed economies,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , a Hong Kong-based economist and strategist at
Credit Agricole, before today’s release. Kowalczyk said
smaller surpluses as a proportion of gross domestic product
imply slower gains in the yuan.  “China’s foreign trade is notably better than pre-
crisis levels,” the customs bureau said in today’s statement.  ‘Double Dip’ Concerns  September export growth was less than the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey for a 26 percent gain,
and compared with a 34.4 percent jump in August.  Bank of America-Merrill Lynch said the slowdown in year-
on-year trade growth was because of a high base for
comparison. Credit Suisse AG. economist  Tao Dong  said the
export “collapse” reflected concern over the summer about
the risk of a global economic “double dip.” Growth in
outbound shipments is likely to slow to below 10 percent in
coming months, he added.  Import growth  was close to the median forecast for a 25
percent advance following a 35.2 percent increase in August.  The U.S. Senate will consider legislation that would
allow duties to be imposed on Chinese imports because of the
nation’s failure to allow bigger currency gains, according to
Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York. Companies such as
Caterpillar Inc., Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Citigroup Inc.,
have warned that the measure may lead to retaliation.  U.S. Trade Gap  China’s trade gap with the U.S. was $18 billion last
month, unchanged from August, Chinese customs data showed.  The yuan has gained more than 2 percent against the
dollar since the government in June stopped pegging the
currency to the greenback after almost two years.  Debate about competitive devaluations dominated
International Monetary Fund meetings last week. Geithner
renewed his call for China to let its currency rise and
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs a
panel of euro-area finance ministers, said the yuan is “more
than undervalued.”  Chinese central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said his
nation needs to avoid the “shock therapy” of excessive yuan
appreciation and “very fast” gains probably wouldn’t end
global economic imbalances. Appreciation of 20 percent to 40
percent would exacerbate Chinese unemployment and cause
social upheaval, according to Premier Wen.  China’s economy has rebounded from the global recession,
with the  Shanghai Composite Index  yesterday entering a so-
called bull market, rising 20 percent from a July low. The
measure remains down for 2010.  -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  Jay Wang  in Singapore.
Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Chris Anstey .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  