-- China Stocks Moving Average May Rebound to April High: Technical Analysis
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-13T01:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/china-stocks-moving-average-may-rebound-to-april-high-technical-analysis.html
The  Shanghai Composite Index ’s rise
above its 200-day moving average is a “positive sign” that
signals further gains for the benchmark gauge, according to
Schaeffer’s Investment Research.  The moving average may climb to April highs after the
Chinese stock gauge exceeded the average for the first time in
about six months yesterday, said  Ryan Detrick , a Cincinnati-
based analyst who studies chart patterns to predict prices at
Schaeffer’s Investment. The 200-day moving average rose as high
as 3,097 in April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “With most other countries already above their respective
200-day moving averages, this could be a sign that China will
begin to play catch-up,” Detrick said in e-mailed comments.  The  Shanghai Composite  was little changed at 2,840.59 at
9:37 a.m., after gaining 20 percent from the 2010 low on July 5,
the threshold some investors consider the beginning of a bull
market. The gauge remains Asia’s worst performer this year with
a 13 percent decline, as the government boosted measures to slow
the economy and cool property prices.  Chinese stocks will extend their rally as investors
increase purchases in a market that lagged behind gains in Asia,
according to Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s  Mark Mobius .
“People will say ‘hey, Malaysia’s gone up, Indonesia’s gone up,
now let’s go to China,’ it’ll get rotation.”  Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite Index has rallied 40 percent
this year, while Thailand’s SET Index has jumped 33 percent and
Malaysia’s FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index has risen 17 percent.  Improved Prospects  “Momentum has swung back in favor of the bulls,”  Jamie Coutts , technical analyst at BGC Partners Inc. in Singapore,
said in e-mailed comments. He said a shift in investor
confidence favoring emerging markets over the “indebted”
developed world has spurred fund flows into China.  The market’s rebound from the July low reflects improved
prospects for the nation’s economy and speculation the yuan will
strengthen. China’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace
in four months in September, while industrial output rose 13.9
percent in August, exceeding economists’ estimates. Citing the
economy’s outlook, Moody’s Investors Service on Oct. 8 put the
nation’s debt rating on review for a possible upgrade.  China wants the yuan to appreciate “in a gradual way”
instead of a sharp revaluation that may hurt the economy,
central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said on Oct. 8. The nation
scrapped the currency’s dollar peg on June 19 after keeping it
steady for almost two years to help exporters cope with the
global financial crisis. The central bank has managed the yuan
against a basket of currencies that includes the euro, the yen
and the British pound since July 2005.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index. The Fibonacci sequence was
identified by Italian mathematician Leonardo Fibonacci in the
13th century. The ratio between the numbers, about 0.618, is
known as the golden mean, and is used by technical analysts to
find levels of resistance and support.  -- Allen Wan . Editor:  Richard Frost   To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  