-- Foreclosure Lawsuits, Citigroup, BP, RBS, Pfizer, BT Group in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-13T11:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/citigroup-tcf-financial-rbs-pfizer-bt-group-in-court-news.html
Home to more foreclosures than 47
U.S. states, Florida sought to clear out its backlog with a
system of special court hearings that dispensed with cases
quickly, sometimes in less than a minute, Bloomberg News’ David
McLaughlin reports.  Homeowners like Nicole West now threaten to slow that
system, Florida’s so-called rocket docket, to a crawl. West, who
has been fighting to save her Jensen Beach house from
foreclosure, has leveled a new allegation in her three-year
battle: the entire process is based on fraud.  West said her case is rife with the kind of flawed mortgage
documents that have caused lenders including  Bank of America
Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  to stop the process of
foreclosures and evictions across the country. The banks said
they are investigating homeowner charges like West’s that
signatures were forged and documents were backdated.  “It’s not right,” said West, 40, who lives about an
hour’s drive north of West Palm Beach. “It’s like lying to the
judge. It’s like lying about what’s really going on.”  The bank moratoriums are already thwarting the initiative
by Florida officials to clear jammed court dockets. Now, efforts
by homeowners such as West to bring claims of fraud to the
attention of judges are further prolonging evictions, and in
turn slowing purchases of foreclosed properties.  Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum, meanwhile, is
investigating four law firms in the state that specialize in
foreclosure cases on behalf of lenders, according to Ryan
Wiggins, his spokeswoman. Yesterday, McCollum said he requested
meetings with firms including Bank of America, JPMorgan and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  unit Litton Loan Servicing to “discuss
ways to promptly and effectively redeem the integrity of the
foreclosure process.”  McCollum accused law firms of “unfair and deceptive
actions” and said thousands of foreclosures that had been
approved by judges may have been the result of improper actions
by law firms. He said the firms appear to be “fabricating
and/or presenting false and misleading documents.”  As many as 9 million U.S. mortgages that have been or are
being foreclosed may face challenges over the validity of legal
documents, according to a report yesterday by Morgan Stanley.  This case is Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. v. West, 07-
00311, Florida Circuit Court of the 13th Judicial District in
and for Martin County (Stuart).  For more, click here.  Litigation Departments  Citigroup Stops Using Law Firm in Foreclosure Inquiry  Citigroup Inc.  said it stopped steering foreclosure work to
a Florida law firm whose court filings to support home seizures
are under investigation by the state’s attorney general.  The bank, which is proceeding with seizures as some rivals
stop to recheck documents, had used the Law Offices of David J.
Stern PA. Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum said Aug. 10 it
is examining whether Stern and two other firms filed “ improper
documentation ” with the state’s courts to speed proceedings.  “Pending the outcome of the AG’s investigation, Citi is
not referring new matters to this firm,” the New York-based
bank said in an e-mailed statement. Citigroup services loans for
government-sponsored entities, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac. Stern “was approved by the GSEs during the time in which
it was retained by Citi,” the bank said.  Lawmakers, attorneys general and consumer groups have
pressed mortgage firms to follow  Bank of America Corp. , the
biggest U.S. lender, which last week suspended all foreclosures
to check whether faulty documents were used to confiscate homes.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage
unit froze seizures or evictions in Florida and 22 other states.
Citigroup said last week it doesn’t plan to join them.  McCollum’s office “hasn’t made any charges or allegations
of fault,” said Jeffrey Tew, an outside  attorney  for
Plantation, Florida-based Stern, who declined to discuss its
work for Citigroup. “I believe they’re a client. I can’t go
into any details.”  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, said in
an e-mailed statement Oct. 8 that it provides “strong
training” for its employees and periodically reviews document-
handling procedures within the company’s foreclosure group.  “At this point, we have no reason to believe our employees
haven’t been following our procedures, so we do not believe a
suspension is necessary,” it said.  For more, click here.  Manatt Law Firm Banned 5 Years From N.Y. Pension Funds  Law firm  Manatt Phelps & Phillips LLP  agreed to be banned
for five years from appearing before any New York public pension
fund and will pay $550,000 to the state, Attorney General Andrew
Cuomo said.  The accord stems from Manatt’s representation of financial
firms seeking investments from public pension funds without a
securities license, Cuomo said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  Manatt, based in Los Angeles, secured meetings on behalf of
firms seeking investments from pension funds in states such as
New York and California. From 2004 to 2006, Manatt and a
California-based lobbyist partner, Platinum Advisors, each
received $187,500 in fees for helping place a $25 million
investment by the California Public Employees’ Retirement System
in Levine Leichtman Capital Partners Fund, Cuomo said.  “Unlicensed agents are untrained, unsupervised and
typically traffic in political and personal connections to get
access to public money,” Cuomo said in the statement. “We have
seen all varieties of this risky behavior and now it includes a
prominent national law firm.”  Manatt also made or tried to make introductions to pension
funds for New York state and city employees and to the state
teachers retirement system, though no investments resulted from
those efforts and the firm received no compensation, Cuomo said.  The firm is quoted in Cuomo’s statement saying it is
“pleased to put this matter behind us.”  “We commend Attorney General Cuomo for investigating the
placement process for pension fund investments and we embrace
his new Reform Code of Conduct,” the firm said.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  New Suits  Federal Reserve Sued by Minnesota Bank on Debit Caps  TCF Financial Corp. , a Minnesota bank, sued the Federal
Reserve to block a U.S. law that limits the fees charged to
retailers on debit-card transactions.  The provision of the Dodd-Frank Act known as the Durbin
Amendment puts the biggest U.S. banks at a competitive
disadvantage as it forces them to provide debit-card services
below cost and exempts smaller banks, the Wayzata-based company
said in a lawsuit filed yesterday in Sioux Falls, South Dakota,
federal court.  The law is akin to Congress telling Burger King “you can
only charge for the hamburger and the bun,” TCF Chief Executive
Officer William A. Cooper said in a telephone interview.
“Ignore all the costs of the overhead and the cooks and the
advertising and the interest expense.”  The bank claims that the law unconstitutionally takes away
its property in the form of legitimate fees and violates its
constitutional right to equal protection by favoring smaller
banks.  Visa Inc.  and  MasterCard Inc. , the world’s biggest
electronic payment networks, set interchange fees and pass the
money to card-issuing banks. Interchange is the largest
component of the fees U.S. merchants pay when they accept Visa
and MasterCard debit cards. The fees last year totaled $19.7
billion and averaged 1.6 percent of each sale, according to the
Nilson Report, an industry newsletter.  TCF “fundamentally misunderstands” the law, Durbin, a
Democrat and the senior senator from Illinois, said in a
statement responding to the lawsuit. The law doesn’t set
interchange rates, he said.  “Our language simply ensures that debit interchange fees
charged to retailers by the card networks -- not the banks --are
‘reasonable and proportional’ to the cost of processing
transactions,” Durbin said.  The case is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 10-cv-04149,
U.S. District Court for South Dakota (Sioux Falls).  For more, click here.  Genzyme Sued by Investors Over Sanofi Buyout Bid  Genzyme Corp., which spurned  Sanofi-Aventis  SA’s $18.5
billion takeover bid, was sued by investors who contend the
biotechnology company is wrongfully depriving shareholders of
the chance to profit from the offer.  Two Genzyme shareholders sued the company’s board in
federal court in Boston seeking to have a judge order the
largest maker of medicines for rare genetic diseases to consider
Sanofi’s $69-a-share bid. Genzyme officials have repeatedly
rejected Sanofi’s overtures and urged shareholders to reject the
French drugmaker’s tender offer.  By failing to pursue the offers,  Genzyme  directors are
denying investors the right “to receive maximum value for their
shares,” lawyers for Genzyme shareholder Bernard Malina said in
a lawsuit filed last month.  Officials of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme contend
executives of Paris-based Sanofi have indicated they would pay
as much as $80 a share for the biotech company, according to a
U.S. regulatory filing Oct. 11. Jean-Marc Podvin, a Sanofi
spokesman, disputed that assertion, saying the drugmaker hadn’t
offered a price range for its bid.  Genzyme spokesman Bo Piela declined to comment on the suits
in a telephone interview yesterday. Company officials have urged
investors not to act on Sanofi’s offer until after it reviews
the proposal with financial and legal advisers. Genzyme said in
an Oct. 4 statement it would make its recommendation within 10
business days in a regulatory filing.  The cases are Field v. Termeer, 10-CV-11565, and Malina v.
Genzyme Corp., 10-CV-11532, both U.S. District Court for the
District of Massachusetts (Boston).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  BankAtlantic Ignored Guidelines, Misled Investors, Lawyer Says  BankAtlantic Bancorp Inc.  officials ignored lending
guidelines in approving land-development loans and then misled
investors about the strength of those loans, a lawyer for
shareholders said at the start of a trial of their securities-
fraud lawsuit.  The bank’s executives hid losses on the loans to inflate
the bank’s stock price, misleading investors in conference calls
and in press releases, the attorney, Mark Arisohn, told jurors
yesterday in federal court in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.  “The picture they painted was that the bank’s lending
business was less risky than it really was,” Arisohn said in
his opening statement. BankAtlantic investors “paid too much
because they didn’t know the truth.”  BankAtlantic, based in Fort Lauderdale, contends that it
properly disclosed problems with the loans. Company officials
“gave plenty of warning” that Florida real-estate loans had
grown risky by 2007, Eugene Stearns, the bank’s attorney, said
in his opening statement. The investors sued that year.  Chief Executive Officer Alan Levan told investors the
bank’s loan portfolio was solid, while at the same time worrying
in an internal e-mail about “a parade of land loans coming in
for extensions,” Arisohn told jurors.  The case is In re BankAtlantic Bancorp Inc. Securities
Litigation, 07-cv-61542, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  RBS Wins Lawsuit Against Liverpool Owners Over Board  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  won an order from a London
court reversing changes to Liverpool soccer club’s board,
possibly clearing the way for a planned sale to a group that
controls the Boston Red Sox baseball team.  Owners Tom Hicks and George Gillett had sought to halt the
sale of Britain’s most successful team, saying the 300 million-
pound ($476 million) bid from New England Sports Ventures LLC is
too low. RBS says the Americans breached their contract with the
bank when they tried to replace board members who are in favor
of the sale and asked the court to step in.  Liverpool said it was consulting with attorneys, and
planned a board meeting for later today. Gillett and Hicks tried
to force through board changes to block the sale to the group
led by Red Sox owner John W. Henry. Justice Christopher Floyd
today ruled for RBS, dismissed the owners’ countersuit and
denied them an appeal, although they can go to a higher court.  The case is Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v. Hicks,
HC10C03206, High Court of Justice, Chancery Division.  For more, click here.  BP, Investors Get First Deadline in Spill Share Suits  Lawyers for BP Plc and investors suing over billions of
dollars in market losses tied to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill
must submit lawsuit leadership proposals by Oct. 27, a judge
overseeing the suits said.  “We should start with ideas about how to select the lead
plaintiff and class counsel,” said U.S. District Judge Keith P.
Ellison yesterday, at the first hearing over investor suits
combined in his court.  Lawsuits by  investors  in U.S. shares of BP allege the
company misrepresented the risks of its offshore drilling
programs, artificially inflating the value of its  American
depositary receipts . The suits, brought by shareholders against
BP for their own losses or derivatively on behalf of the
company, claim BP’s directors and senior managers are
responsible for as much as $50 billion in lost stock value after
the spill.  “BP’s procedures for minimizing its financial losses from
drilling rig problems were no more than fantasies,” Stanley M.
Chesley, an attorney for one of the investor cases consolidated
in Houston federal court, said in a court filing. “BP was
simply not the enterprise that its public communications
pictured.”  The  investor lawsuits  were combined before Ellison in
August in a multidistrict litigation, or MDL, for evidence-
gathering and pretrial decisions.  BP is facing more than 400 lawsuits over the largest
offshore oil spill in U.S. history, set off by the April 20
explosion of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig.  The case is In re BP Plc Securities Litigation, MDL 2185,
U.S. District Courts, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  Drill Ban Over, U.S. Tells Judge Weighing Challenge  The U.S. has lifted its moratorium on deep-water offshore
oil drilling, Interior Secretary Kenneth Salazar told the New
Orleans judge weighing a challenge to the ban.  U.S. regulators imposed the moratorium on drilling in
waters deeper than 500 feet on July 12, to replace an earlier
ban struck down by U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman in New
Orleans. Feldman reversed the earlier ban, imposed after the  BP
Plc  oil spill, as too broad.  Offshore-service companies challenged the second moratorium
as well, in a lawsuit pending before Feldman. The U.S. earlier
asked Feldman to reject this lawsuit, calling the ban a matter
of public policy.  The U.S. is ending “the suspension on all deep-water
drilling effective immediately,” Salazar said in a filing
yesterday in Feldman’s court. “This new decision memorandum may
be relevant to the court’s consideration” of the U.S. request
to dismiss the lawsuit, lawyers for Salazar said.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-1941,
Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  ICAP Stifling Rivals by Blocking Broker Moves, Tradition Says  ICAP Plc is trying to “stifle healthy competition” by
seeking to prevent the Singapore unit of  Compagnie Financiere
Tradition SA  from recruiting 38 of its brokers, the Swiss
company said in court papers.  There are no trade secrets in inter-dealer broking where
prices change constantly and clients are shared by all, Stephen
Miles, the managing director of Tradition’s Singapore
operations, said in a filing yesterday asking the Singapore High
Court to lift its temporary order preventing the hiring.  ICAP , the world’s largest broker of trades between banks,
last month won the order stopping the Singapore-based employees
from joining Tradition until the dispute is resolved, arguing
that the workers had access to confidential data including
client lists, trading strategies and brokers’ pay.  Tradition, based in Lausanne, Switzerland, didn’t induce
the employees to breach their contracts with ICAP, Miles said in
his filing. Their departure was predicated on “push” factors,
he said, including a move into electronic trading that would
have resulted in job cuts.  “The individuals have a right to work and should not be
deprived of this fundamental right,” Miles said of the brokers
who have been prevented from joining Tradition, the world’s
third-largest inter-dealer broker.  Miles noted that ICAP said in its Sept. 30 trading
statement that it didn’t view the impact of the potential
Singapore defections as being material.  “This lawsuit is simply about protecting our commercial
interests through enforcing the terms of employment contracts
that both we and our employees have agreed,” Mike Sheard, a
London-based ICAP spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  The case is ICAP AP (Singapore) Pte. vs. M. Divakaran & Ors
S724/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Pfizer Rejected by U.S. Supreme Court on Menopause Drug Suit  The  U.S. Supreme Court  rejected an appeal from  Pfizer Inc. 
and other makers of hormone-replacement treatments, leaving
intact a ruling that lets 123 women who developed breast cancer
sue in Minnesota state court.  The appeal sought to reinstate a federal trial court ruling
that dismissed 116 of the plaintiffs because their claims
duplicated previously filed suits.  The issue in the Supreme Court appeal turned on the complex
rules governing efforts by corporate defendants to move suits
out of plaintiff-friendly state courts and into federal
tribunals.  In the Pfizer case, a federal appeals court said the trial
judge shouldn’t have dismissed the 116 plaintiffs and instead
should have immediately sent the entire matter back to Minnesota
state court, where the suits were filed.  More than 6 million women took menopause drugs made by
Pfizer’s Wyeth unit to treat symptoms including hot flashes and
mood swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to
cancer.  The other companies being sued include units of  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. ,  Mead Johnson Nutrition Co. ,
 Novartis AG ,  Abbott Laboratories  and  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc.   The case is Wyeth v. Kirkland, 10-222, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  BT Must Lower Access Fees Charged to Competitors, Court Rules  BT Group Plc , the U.K.’s biggest phone company, must lower
the fees it charges competitors to access the company’s phone
and broadband lines because of errors by a regulator, an appeals
court ruled.  Price caps put in place in May 2009 by telecommunications
regulator Ofcom were too high due to the watchdog’s errors in
calculating inflation and efficiency, the  Competition Appeal
Tribunal  ruled Oct. 11 in London.  Ofcom should adopt new price controls “as soon as
possible,” a three-judge panel of the tribunal said in the
ruling. “Once the price controls are adopted, BT will be bound
to comply with their terms.”  The ruling follows a finding by Britain’s antitrust
regulator, the Competition Commission, in support of some claims
in the appeal by  TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc  and  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc . BT said last year that the price cap was
already too low to allow the company to recover costs.  Ofcom spokeswoman Elizabeth de Winton said the Competition
Commission had “overwhelmingly endorsed” its approach to price
controls, and that the changes will result in an adjustment of
about 4 million pounds ($6.32 million).  BT spokeswoman Gemma Thomas said Ofcom’s errors were
“relatively small” compared with what TalkTalk argued in
court. The prices apply to BT’s Openreach unit.  “Only minor price changes should be made,” Thomas said
yesterday in an e-mail.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 