-- Citigroup Sued for Discrimination by Women Over Pay, Layoffs in Recession
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-10-13T18:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/citigroup-sued-for-bias-by-women-over-pay-promotions-update1-.html
Citigroup Inc. , the fourth-biggest
U.S. bank by deposits, was sued for gender discrimination by
current and former employees who claim women are paid less than
men and are more likely to lose their jobs.  The lawsuit, filed today in federal court in Manhattan, was
brought by five former directors and analysts of the New York-
based bank and by one current  employee . It seeks class-action,
or group, status on behalf of women at job levels from analyst
to managing director.  The plaintiffs accuse Citigroup of being an “outdated boys
club” and allege “systematic and pervasive discrimination and
retaliation” in decisions involving compensation, promotion and
termination. They seek unspecified damages.  “Citi has a long-standing commitment to equal employment
practices and to provide a professional and respectful workplace
free of unlawful discrimination,” the company said in a
statement today. “Citi has several diversity initiatives that
allow us to enhance innovation, create business opportunities,
and relate to our valuable client base.”  Women managers in finance, a group that includes bank
tellers as well as executives, earned 63.9 cents for every
dollar of income men earned in 2000, based on median salaries,
according to Government Accountability Office statistics
analyzed by Bloomberg. In 2007, the last year for which data are
available, the figure was 58.8 cents.  On Sept. 15  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  was sued by three
female former employees who claim they faced discrimination in
pay and fewer opportunities for promotion than men at the firm.
Goldman has said the suit is “without merit.”  The case is Bartoletti v. Citigroup, 10-cv-7720, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 