-- Schiffer Browses Frieze, $5.6 Million Hirst Sells
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n   a n d   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-10-14T09:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/claudia-schiffer-joins-billionaires-at-frieze-as-5-6-million-hirst-sells.html
Claudia Schiffer , the model, and
hedge-fund manager  Steve Cohen  joined browsers at London’s
 Frieze Art Fair  as a  Damien Hirst  sculpture priced at 3.5
million pounds ($5.6 million) was among the early sales.  Dasha Zhukova , the partner of Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich , was also at the VIP Day yesterday. Europe’s biggest
commercial event devoted to living artists has  $375 million 
worth of art, according to insurer  Hiscox Ltd.  Collectors are
attracted by the emphasis on works by younger artists, mostly
priced at less than $100,000, after the financial crisis
depressed values for more expensive, heavily traded names by as
much as 50 percent.  “The prices seem pretty reasonable,”  Morgan Long , head of
art investment at the London-based  Fine Art Fund , said in an
interview. “This is a place where dealers try to be sensible
and this isn’t the time to be silly with price points. Over the
years Frieze has become more and more commercial. The major
galleries aren’t prepared to go out on a limb.”  Hirst is one of the artists whose values dropped the most
in the last two years. His 3.5 million-pound 2006 fish-in-
formaldehyde work, “The True Artist Helps the World by
Revealing Mystic Truths,” consisting of more than 400 specimens
in three cabinets, dominated the booth of the London-based  White
Cube . It sold to an Asian collector within the first hour of the
preview.  In September 2008, a Hirst shark in formaldehyde fetched
9.6 million pounds at  Sotheby’s  “Beautiful Inside My Head
Forever” auction.  Hirst’s Viagra  A 10-foot (3 meters) Hirst cabinet filled with Viagra
tablets also loomed large on the booth of  Gagosian , next to
works by fellow market staples  Richard Prince  and  Andy Warhol .
It remained unsold during the afternoon of the preview, at about
$6 million, according to dealers. The gallery itself doesn’t
reveal individual prices.  International collectors such as  Dakis Joannou  of Greece
and London jeweler  Laurence Graff  were also viewing Frieze, now
in its eighth year in a temporary structure in Regent’s Park and
with 173 galleries taking part.  London’s  Lisson Gallery  was one of several dealers
reporting better sales than in 2009. Six works by  Marina Abramovic  priced between $30,000 and $300,000, and four
sculptures by  Anish Kapoor , ranging from 200,000 pounds for an
editioned hanging object and 800,000 pounds for a large black
fiberglass piece, were among the confirmed sales.  “It’s much faster than last year,”  Nicholas Logsdail , the
Lisson Gallery’s director, said in an interview. “Wealthy
people have become bored with the financial markets and are
paying more attention to art.”  Reyle’s Abstract  The Brussels- and Paris-based dealer  Almine Rech  found an
early buyer for a new, purple-chrome abstract sculpture by the
German artist  Anselm Reyle  at 189,000 euros ($263,880). The New
York-based dealer  Marianne Boesky  had sold four new works by the
U.S. painter Donald Moffett for $60,000 each. Three sold to
American collectors and one to a European, said Boesky.  “This year’s Frieze definitely feels more successful than
2009,” Jorg-Michael Bertz, a Dusseldorf-based art adviser,
said. “The financial problems have been going on for so long,
people now know how to deal with the situation.”  New York-based  David Zwirner  sold the 2005  Luc Tuymans 
painting, “Evidence,” for $850,000.  Brussels-based dealer  Xavier Hufkens , one of 20 new
exhibitors, sold four sculptures recently welded out of found
metal by the Los Angeles-based artist  Sterling Ruby  at the
 Chinati Foundation  in Marfa, Texas. Exploring themes of
industrial decay, they were priced from $43,500 to $87,000.  Phillips’s Auction  Meanwhile, buyers in the market for works at auction remain
selective. Thirty-one percent of the 51 lots offered last night
in a contemporary-art event at Phillips de Pury failed to sell.  The auction was boosted by the presence of  David Hockney ’s
1978 watercolor, “Autumn Pool (Paper Pool 29).” The six-part
work had been estimated to fetch at least 700,000 pounds and its
Los Angeles-based seller had been guaranteed a minimum price by
an external guarantor. It sold to a telephone bidder for a top
price of 1.3 million pounds, an auction record for a work on
paper by the artist, said Phillips.  Elsewhere, bidding was mostly below or within estimates.
New York-based collector  Adam Lindemann  had consigned a group of
13 works by younger German artists such as  Jonathan Meese ,
 Anselm Reyle  and  Andre Butzer . Eight of the works sold, raising
351,150 pounds with fees against a low estimate of 465,000
pounds based on hammer prices.  The most highly valued was Reyle’s Koons-influenced purple
chrome abstract sculpture, “Untitled.” Dating from 2006, it
sold for 115,250 pounds against estimates of 100,000 pounds to
150,000 pounds. It was similar to the one sold by Almine Rech at
Frieze. The auction totaled 6.6 million pounds with fees against
a low estimate of 5.6 million pounds,  Phillips  said.  Tate’s Toilet Roll  Tate  bought 120,000 pounds worth of art at Frieze, as much
as it did last year, including an installation with a Coke
bottle and a Czechoslovakian toilet roll from 1978.  Using money raised by a charity -- the Outset Contemporary
Art Fund -- Tate Director  Nicholas Serota  and a team of curators
shopped the booths and picked up works by two U.S. and one
Slovak artist: Jimmie Durham, Lorna Simpson, and Julius Koller.  Serota said Outset funding had allowed Tate to boost its
collection of emerging artists.  “This is increasingly important at a time when funding for
acquisitions is so limited,” he said in an e-mailed press
release.  Spending Cuts  Tate is one of many U.K. cultural institutions facing
funding cuts when the government announces it spending plans on
Oct. 20.  Durham’s work is a 1993 installation made with human bones,
metal hardware, wood and a Coke bottle. Bearing a lengthy French
title taken from  Victor Hugo , it makes references to mortality,
the consumer society, and North American Indian heritage.  Simpson’s “Five Day Forecast” (1988) consists of five
prints of a woman whose arms are crossed and whose head isn’t
shown. The photos are coupled with labels like “misconstrue,”
“misfunction” or “misidentify” in block letters.  Koller’s “Universal Futurological Opening” (1978) -- one
of three works by the late Slovak artist bought by Tate -- is a
play on the acronym U.F.O., and consists of a roll of toilet
paper from what was then Communist Czechoslovakia with a felt-
tip pen inscription.  Another Koller work is a tray painted gray and bearing the
sign by which the artist identified himself, a question mark.  ( Scott Reyburn  and  Farah Nayeri  write for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
their own.)  To contact the writers on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com ;
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 