-- Coal India to Improve Fuel Quality as Production May Fall Short of Target
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-10-13T14:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/coal-india-to-improve-fuel-quality-as-production-may-fall-short-of-target.html
Coal India Ltd. , planning the
nation’s biggest initial public offering, will boost
profitability by improving the quality of the fuel after failing
to raise production fast enough to meet demand.  The world’s largest coal producer plans to mine 460 million
metric tons of coal in the year ending March 31 and 486 million
tons the following year, Chairman  Partha Bhattacharyya  said on
May 20.  “We’re not sure that 486 and 460 can be maintained,” he
told Bloomberg UTV in an interview today. He didn’t provide a
revised estimate.  India’s monopoly producer of the fuel has struggled to
boost production to keep pace with surging demand for coal-fired
electricity in Asia’s second-fastest growing economy. Data from
India’s coal ministry shows thermal coal imports surged 16
percent in the year ended March to make up for the shortfall in
domestic coal supplies.  The company has about 115 projects that face delays in
obtaining land and environmental permits, Bhattacharyya told a
news conference in Mumbai today. Coal India cut its 2012
production target to 486 million tons from 520 million tons in
March because of delays in obtaining forestry clearances, he
said.  “In order to step up the growth rate, we need these delays
to be curtailed,” Bhattacharyya said.  Quality Coal  The Kolkata-based company, which supplies 82 percent of
India’s coal-fired power plants, is changing its strategy to
focus on improving the quality of its coal rather than just
raising output, Bhattacharyya said.  “When we wash coal, we create a product of comparable
quality to imported coal,” he said. “We should be able to
price it much better.”  Coal India may be able to sell washed coal for $45 per ton
compared with the $25 a ton it gets currently,  A.K. Sinha ,
finance director, told reporters. The company could make a
margin of as much as $18 for every ton of coal after accounting
for washing costs, he said.  The company plans to spend 27 billion rupees ($607 million)
on building 20 coal washeries over the next four years, Sinha
said.  India plans to raise as much as 151.54 billion rupees
selling part of its stake in Coal India. The company will offer
the shares at 225 rupees to 245 rupees apiece when they go on
sale Oct. 18, Coal Minister  Sriprakash Jaiswal  said in New Delhi
yesterday. The government is selling 631.6 million shares,
according to a sale document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  