-- Cocoa Output in Indonesia May Fall on Damage From Rain, Delaying Shipments
-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2010-10-13T09:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/cocoa-output-in-indonesia-may-fall-on-damage-from-rain-delaying-shipments.html
Cocoa bean production in Indonesia
may fall 9 percent this year after a longer-than-normal rainy
season damaged crops and reduced quality, causing some exporters
seeking a delay in shipments, an industry group executive said.  Output may drop to 500,000 metric tons from 550,000 tons
last year, said  Zulhefi Sikumbang , chairman of Indonesian Cocoa
Association. The group had targeted output of 600,000 tons for
this year, he said. Indonesia is the largest grower after Ivory
Coast and Ghana.  Falling supplies may further push up prices of the
chocolate ingredient which gained to an almost two-month high
today. A La Nina event, which has brought wet weather to
Australia and Indonesia and drought to Brazil, has been blamed
by industry and government officials for a fall in output for
palm oil and tin in Indonesia.  “The October-November period is supposed to be our second
harvest, but heavy rain has destroyed our crops,” Sikumbang
said by phone from Padang, West Sumatra. “Some exporters have
asked their buyers to delay shipments due to limited supplies
from farmers.”  Cocoa-bean exports from South and Central Sulawesi,
Indonesia’s main growing region, fell 48 percent to 18,849 tons
in September from 36,168 tons in August as heavy rains disrupted
shipments, Herman Agan, head of the Central Sulawesi branch of
the Indonesian Cocoa Association, said Oct. 5.  “The rain was forecast to persist until February, so we
are afraid it will also affect next year’s production, as we may
only have one good harvest,” said Sikumbang.  Cocoa futures for December delivery gained as much as 1.3
percent today in New York to $2,900 a ton, the highest level
since Aug. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  