-- Colombian Peso Falls to One-Week Low on Bets for More Government Measures
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-10-13T19:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/colombian-peso-falls-for-a-second-straight-day-on-bets-for-more-measures.html
Colombia’s peso fell to a one-week
low on speculation the government will take additional measures
to ease the currency’s world-beating rally as President  Juan Manuel Santos  meets today to discuss options to stem its gains.  The peso earlier fell to as low as 1,794.30, its weakest
level since Oct. 6. The currency closed little changed at
1,790.68 per dollar, from 1,789.93 yesterday. It’s up 14.1
percent this year, the best performance among all currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Santos will meet with government and central bank officials
today to analyze options to ease the peso’s rally, Finance
Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said yesterday. Santos said in an
Oct. 9 speech he also invited former Argentine economy minister
Domingo Cavallo and ex-Peruvian prime minister Pedro Pablo
Kuczynski to offer advice and that the government “is very
conscious of the harm” the peso’s rally is causing. The meeting
is scheduled to start at 5 p.m. New York time, according to the
presidency’s website.  “The market is speculating more measures will be
announced” by the time the central bank’s monetary policy
meeting is held on Oct. 29, said  David Aldana , head analyst at
Bogota-based brokerage Ultrabursatiles SA. “Exporters have been
voicing concern, and the government likely wants to show it is
doing all it can.”  Colombia’s central bank said Sept. 15 it will buy a minimum
of $20 million daily for at least four months, heeding a call
from Santos who asked policy makers in August to take “bold and
creative” action to ease the peso’s rally. Banco de la
Republica said earlier this week it bought $240 million in the
currency market last month.  Capital Controls  A group of Colombian business associations including ANDI,
the country’s biggest, asked the government and central bank to
take further measures to ease the peso’s rally which “has
reached a point where it jeopardizes the Colombian economy’s
positive outlook,” according to a copy of the letter sent by e-
mail earlier this week.  Among the measures, the business groups ask that officials
impose capital controls and increase dollar purchases in the
currency market.  Officials may seek to impose limits on short-term portfolio
investments as well as borrowing abroad, according to Aldana.  “Inflows have been rising and imposing capital controls
has become a global trend,” said Aldana.  TES Auction  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due
2020 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.01
percent, according to Colombia’s stock exchange. The bond’s
price rose 0.182 centavo to 127.493 centavos per peso.  Colombia’s borrowing costs declined at a government auction
of fixed-rated securities, known as TES.  The yield on Colombia’s bonds due July 2024 fell to 7.37
percent, from 7.64 percent at the last auction on Sept. 22, the
Finance Ministry said in a statement. The yield on the June 2016
bonds fell to 6.50 percent from 6.84 percent.  The ministry also sold securities due April 2013 to yield
4.98 percent. Colombia had last sold the bonds on April 28.  Demand for the fixed-rate securities sold today equaled
1.03 trillion pesos ($575.2 million), almost three times the 350
billion pesos of debt offered.  The reopening of the April 2013 bonds helped gains in the
benchmark 2020 securities, according to  Daniel Lozano , an
analyst at Medellin-based brokerage Serfinco SA.  “The reopening reduces the issuance burden on the longer
part of the curve,” said Lozano.  Colombian economists lowered their 2010 year-end inflation
forecast to 2.74 percent, according to a central bank survey
published today. That’s down from a median estimate of 2.97
percent in a survey last month. The central bank targets
inflation this year between 2 percent and 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  