-- Copper-Treatment Fees in China Triple on Rising Scrap Supplies
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-10-13T08:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/copper-treatment-fees-in-china-triple-on-rising-scrap-supplies.html
Spot fees paid to copper smelters in
China by mining companies for turning ore into refined metal
have nearly tripled in the past month as scrap supplies rose,
according to traders and analysts in the largest metals user.  Fees are being quoted at as much as $80 a metric ton and 8
cents a pound, according to Jinrui Futures Co., a unit of
 Jiangxi Copper Co ., China’s biggest producer. That compares with
$20 to $30 a ton a month ago and nearly zero in June amid an ore
shortage, said Shenzhen Rongtuo Trading Co.’s  Pang Ying .  China is the largest copper user, using the refined metal
in construction as well as manufactured products, such as air
conditioners. Refined-copper prices have surged 37 percent over
the past year as demand has increased, rising to $8,415 a ton
today, the highest level in 27 months.  “Scrap imports have been consistently high this year and
have helped to offset the demand for refined metal” made by
smelters,  Zhao Kai , an analyst at Jinrui, said today from
Shenzhen. The recent run up in refined prices has also increased
demand for scrap, said Zhao.  The fees depend on the combined supply of ore and scrap
available to smelters and recyclers, rising when total supply is
plentiful. Smelters use concentrate, or semi-processed ore
produced by miners, to make refined copper, while recyclers use
scrap to make the same product.  Scrap typically accounts for a third of China’s refined-
copper output, according to the China Nonferrous Metal Industry
Association. Shipments of scrap into China totaled 3.2 million
tons in the first nine months, up 7.6 percent from last year,
according to customs data updated today.  Sterlite Industries  Smelters in China were also able to charge more for
processing ore from miners as counterparts in Japan and India
reduced output, according to China International Futures
(Shanghai) Co. Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd., India’s largest
producer, has been ordered to shut its sole 400,000-ton smelter
from Oct. 18 for breaching environmental standards.  “Tightness in the concentrates market was greatly eased
after” the smelter in India was ordered to shut, China
International’s analyst  Fang Junfeng  said today. “Short-term
availability has improved and smelters are using this
opportunity to ask for higher fees after being hard hit earlier
this year.”  Japan’s Pan Pacific Copper Co., Sumitomo Metal Mining Co.
and Mitsubishi Materials Corp., the country’s three largest
copper producers, have announced output cuts at their smelters
amid a short supply of ore and falling fees. Japan is the
biggest importer of copper concentrate from miners after China.  LME Benchmark  Smelters buy concentrate from mining companies at a price
based on the London Metal Exchange benchmark minus the agreed
fees. The spot fees account for only a minority of smelters’
annual work, with longer-term fees negotiated twice a year, with
most volume handled through yearend agreements.  “Smelters are also trying to talk up the market ahead of
the annual negotiations,” said Shenzhen Rongtuo’s Pang,
referring to talks between mining companies and smelters to set
fees for the bulk of the ore processed in 2011.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company, won
a 38 percent cut in the last yearend fees from smelters in Japan
and China. They were $46.50 a ton for smelting and 4.65 cents a
pound for refining, down from $75 a ton and 75 cents a pound the
year before.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  