-- Credit Agricole's Cheuvreux Scales Back Plans for Emerging Europe Coverage
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2010-10-13T06:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/credit-agricole-s-cheuvreux-scales-back-plans-for-emerging-europe-coverage.html
CA Cheuvreux, the equity brokerage
unit of  Credit Agricole SA , is scaling back operations in
emerging Europe, the Middle East and Africa after the regional
heads of its research and sales teams left the company, said two
people with knowledge of the decision.  Ronald Smith , who ran Cheuvreux’s EMEA research team in
London, and  Tomas Gatek , chief of the sales group, departed this
month, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the information hasn’t been released by the company.  Andrey Litvin , a metals and mining analyst in London, also was among at
least five staff members to exit, the people said.  Cheuvreux will no longer cover Russian companies and isn’t
seeking to hire additional bankers for the EMEA region, said a
Paris-based spokeswoman for the brokerage, who asked not to be
named, citing company policy.  Simon Quijano-Evans , a London-
based economist and strategist, will continue to cover Russian
macroeconomics, she said.  The changes follow the departure of former Chief Executive
Officer  Francois Simon , who left in May after 30 years at
Cheuvreux. He was replaced by his deputy,  Jean-Claude Bassien. 
Bassien didn’t return calls to his office or e-mails. Smith
declined to comment by e-mail, while Gatek and Litvin didn’t
answer their cell phones.  Simon had said in December that the company would expand
its coverage into Russia and hire at least 25 sales and research
staff to oversee the EMEA region from London. Smith, the former
head of research at closely held Alfa Bank in Moscow, was hired
in January to lead the broker’s new EMEA research team.  KBC Groep NV , Belgium’s biggest bank by market value, said
in June it was closing its seven-person emerging-market team in
London as part of a reorganization required to meet European
Commission guidelines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  