-- Crude Oil Rises as IEA Increases Demand Forecasts, China's Imports Climb
-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 2010-10-13T12:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/crude-oil-rises-as-iea-increases-demand-forecasts-china-s-imports-climb.html
Oil climbed for the first day in
three in New York after the International Energy Agency raised
its global demand forecasts and China reported crude imports
reached a record.  The IEA increased its forecasts for worldwide crude use by
300,000 barrels a day this year and next. Futures rose as much
as 1.1 percent after Chinese customs data showed the world’s
largest energy consumer imported a record 23.3 million metric
tons of crude in September.  “The IEA report is a very strong one that acknowledges the
strength of the demand seen over the last few months,” said
 Amrita Sen , an analyst at Barclays Capital, the investment
banking arm of Barclays Plc. “In particular, OECD oil demand
has shown very strong recovery and the IEA seems to be taking
that into account.”  Crude for November delivery rose as much as $1.26 to $82.93
a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. It was at $82.84 at 1:44 p.m. London time. Brent crude
for November settlement on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London gained $1.10 to $84.51 a barrel.  China, the world’s largest energy consumer, imported a
record 23.3 million metric tons of crude last month to meet
increased domestic demand, according to preliminary data today
from the General Administration of Customs.  IEA Forecast  Global oil demand will be higher than previously estimated
this year and next amid signs of “apparently resurgent” demand
in the U.S., Germany and Japan in the last quarter, the IEA said
today in its monthly Oil Market Report.  Crude use worldwide will average 86.9 million barrels a day
in 2010 and 88.2 million barrels a day in 2011, the Paris-based
energy advisory agency said. That’s 300,000 barrels a day more
than last month’s forecast for both those years.  Futures also rose as the dollar weakened against the euro
and other currencies, reducing the appeal of commodities, amid
speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will conduct another
round of quantitative easing.  The  Dollar Index , used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the greenback against currencies including the euro, yen
and Swiss franc, slid 0.4 percent to 77.078 today. It touched
76.906 on Oct. 7, the lowest since Jan. 15.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
agree to keep production quotas unchanged when it meets tomorrow
because the oil market is well-balanced for the next few months,
an OPEC delegate said today.  Quota Compliance  While demand is slowly increasing, commercial stockpiles
remain high for the moment and OPEC should raise supply again
when it becomes clear that demand is overtaking supply, said the
Persian Gulf oil official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
The 12-member group pumps 40 percent of the world’s crude.  Ministers will urge members to pay closer attention to
quota compliance and leave limits unchanged when they meet
tomorrow amid mixed signals on global economic growth.  “We will maintain, and we’ll be asking for more
compliance,” which is currently about 54 percent, said Kuwaiti
Oil Minister Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al-Sabah. Shokri Ghanem,
chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp., said yesterday there’s
no need for to alter quotas, echoing comments made by Qatari Oil
Minister Abdullah al-Attiyah in an Oct. 10 interview.  Yesterday, OPEC raised its forecast for global oil demand
this year by 100,000 barrels a day to 85.59 million, from 84.46
million in 2009. Consumption will increase 1.2 percent to 86.64
million barrels a day in 2011, the group said in its monthly Oil
Market Report.  U.S. Fuel Supplies  U.S. gasoline supplies probably declined last week to the
lowest level since June as refiners performed seasonal
maintenance and imports fell, a Bloomberg News survey shows.  Stockpiles dropped 1.5 million barrels, or 0.7 percent, in
the week ended Oct. 8 from 219.9 million in the prior seven-day
period, based on the median of 18 analyst estimates before an
Energy Department report tomorrow. Oil inventories increased in
the survey and distillates slipped.  Workers at refineries across France and at Marseille oil
terminals extended a strike, threatening to cause fuel shortages
starting next week. Workers at 10 of mainland France’s 12 crude-
processing plants were on strike, CGT union representative
 Charles Foulard  said today by phone. The situation may change
during the day as shift workers vote whether to continue the
action, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Farey  in London at   bfarey@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Stephen Voss
at   sev@bloomberg.net  