-- Daley Plans to Cover Chicago's Budget Gap Without Imposing a Tax Increase
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-10-13T21:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/daley-plans-to-cover-chicago-s-budget-gap-without-imposing-a-tax-increase.html
Chicago Mayor  Richard Daley , facing
a projected $654.7 million deficit, proposed closing it by
dipping into cash reserves and having businesses perform some
municipal services while leaving taxes as they are.  “I don’t believe it’s right to raise taxes on people with
the economy as bad as it is,” said Daley, who announced in
September he wouldn’t seek re-election after 21 years in office.
The mayor presented a $6.1 billion budget for 2011 in an
appearance before the City Council, telling members that
economists’ declarations that the recession is over are
“laughable.”  Chicago’s unemployment rate was 10.8 percent in August,
higher than the national average of  9.6 percent  that month. Debt
loads from unfunded liabilities in the city’s pension funds
total $42,000 per household, according to a study of municipal
retirement systems released Oct. 12. Foreclosures have reached
record numbers, Daley said, and revenue from sales, income and
real estate taxes has plunged $1 billion from 2007 levels,
Daley’s budget said.  In August, Fitch Ratings and Moody’s Investors Service each
downgraded Chicago’s general obligation bond rating. Fitch
lowered the rating to third-highest AA from AA+, and Moody’s
dropped it to Aa3, fourth-highest, from Aa2. Citing unfunded
pension liabilities, Fitch said it “expects economic recovery
in the city may lag that of the nation.”  Lowered credit ratings generally result in higher borrowing
costs.  Fed by Meters  Daley today proposed borrowing $120 million from the city’s
parking-meter funds to help balance the budget and acknowledged
it is a “controversial” step. He also proposed taking $38
million from a surplus raised in tax-increment financing deals,
in which municipalities borrow against future property tax
returns.  He also wants to outsource recycling, festival management
and equipment maintenance to private firms, he said.  Daley’s plan is a stopgap, said former White House Chief of
Staff  Rahm Emanuel , who resigned Oct. 1 amid expectations he
will run for mayor.  “We must go beyond the temporary fixes to confront our
structural deficit in a permanent way,” Emanuel said today in a
statement. “While this budget may achieve its goal for this
year, this cannot be a model for the long term. We can’t keep
doing the same thing and expecting a new result.”  Getting a Pass  Daley’s use of money collected by turning over the
operation of parking meters and the Chicago Skyway to a private
company will be a big part of his legacy, said  Donald Haider ,
professor of management and strategy at Northwestern
University’s  Kellogg School of Management .  “What these windfalls have done is given the mayor a pass
in terms of dealing with the immediacy of the recession and the
need to restructure local government,” said Haider, a former
Chicago budget director. “Those funds have been largely
depleted.”  Candidates seeking to succeed Daley in May have until Nov.
22 to declare their candidacy. The primary election is Feb. 22.
Alderman Edward Burke, who said he is considering a mayoral run,
said the city is in a tight spot.  “There’s no simple solutions to these problems,” Burke
said. “I think we’re down to about the bone now in terms of
reducing expenditures and there’s no viable source of increasing
revenues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Jones  in Chicago at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  