-- Delhi Commonwealth Games Get Less Than Half Funds Targeted From Sponsors
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   R u c h i k a   T u l s h y a n
-- 2010-10-13T12:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/delhi-commonwealth-games-get-less-than-half-funds-targeted-from-sponsors.html
The Commonwealth Games, the biggest
sporting event India hosted in almost three decades, raised less
than half the sponsorship money targeted,  Suresh Kalmadi ,
chairman of the Organising Committee, said.  The 12-day event in New Delhi won sponsorships worth about
3.8 billion rupees ($85 million), compared with the aim of 9.6
billion rupees, Kalmadi said in a written reply to questions.
The games, which feature about 8,000 athletes and officials from
71 nations, end tomorrow.  State-run Indian Railways, Asia’s oldest network, is the
‘lead partner’ of the games, according to the event’s  website .
Central Bank of India, Air India,  NTPC Ltd.  and  Hero Honda
Motors Ltd.  are ‘partners’.  Tissot, the watch brand owned by Swatch Group AG, and  Tata
Motors Ltd. , India’s biggest commercial vehicle maker, are
sponsors, while Coca-Cola Co. and Reebok International Ltd. are
among the four co-sponsors, according to the website.  The run-up to the Oct. 3-14 event was marred by missed
construction deadlines, the collapse of a stadium footbridge and
complaints of uninhabitable accommodation for athletes.  “I’m not surprised they have fallen short of investors,”
said Unni Krishnan, managing director at the Indian unit of
consultant  Brand Finance Plc . “It was all conducted in such a
shoddy fashion that it doesn’t inspire trust among
stakeholders.”  $4.6 Billion Spent  The government spent $4.6 billion upgrading stadiums,
refurbishing roads, building overpasses, and power and water
utilities to stage the games that are held every four years.  The games’ organizers have also struggled to fill stadiums.
About 1 million tickets were sold as of Oct. 12, from an initial
target of 1.7 million, said Lalit Bhanot, secretary general at
the Organising Committee.  Tickets  to watch one of the 17 sports
at the Delhi Games cost from 50 rupees to 1,000 rupees.  The Melbourne Commonwealth Games in 2006 attracted eight
major partners including  BHP Billiton Ltd. , Qantas Airways Ltd.
and National Australia Bank Ltd. The second tier of 15 sponsors
included Cadbury Schweppes, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, and
 Konica Minolta Holdings Inc .  Accor SA, the event’s official hotel group, and Unilever
Plc’s Rexona, which supplied deodorant for all the Australian
and New Zealand athletes at the games, were among 30 other
associates. All sponsorships totaled about A$100 million ($75
million), the organizers said at the time.  Television Ratings  Cricket, India’s most-watched sport, drew television
audiences away from the New Delhi games. The start of the event
coincided with a five-day cricket test match between India and
Australia. On Oct. 5, as India inched toward the Australian
total on the final day of the match, viewership for the games
was a little more than half of that for cricket, according to
 TAM Media Research Pvt. , a television ratings provider.  Abhinav Bindra, the only Indian to win an individual
Olympic gold medal, and Gagan Narang started the nation’s tally
of 32 golds on Oct. 5 by winning the 10-meter air rifle pairs
event at the games.  “Attracting money away from cricket to Commonwealth Games
is not easy,” said Harish Bijoor, a Bangalore-based brand
consultant, who estimates about three fourths of India’s 1.2
billion people follow the sport. “A marketer will go for a
sport that is watched by the largest numbers and that is
cricket.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Abhijit Roy Chowdhury  in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
 Ruchika Tulshyan  in Mumbai at 
 rtulshyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  