-- Dell's Settlement of SEC Accounting-Fraud Claims Approved by U.S. Judge
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-10-13T21:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/dell-s-settlement-of-sec-accounting-fraud-claims-approved-by-u-s-judge.html
Dell Inc. , the world’s third-biggest
maker of personal computers, won a judge’s permission to pay
$100 million to settle accounting-fraud claims brought by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The accord reached in July allows founder  Michael Dell  to
remain chief executive officer after paying a $4 million fine.
U.S. District Judge  Richard Leon  approved the settlement today
at a hearing in Washington.  Dell, 45, and the personal-computer maker failed to tell
investors about “exclusivity payments” received from  Intel
Corp.  in exchange for shunning products made by rival chipmaker
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. , the SEC said in a complaint filed
in July. The payments allegedly helped Dell reach earnings
targets from 2001 to 2006.  Dell, appearing in court, told Leon he had nothing to do
with the company’s settlement when asked by the judge how he
avoided a possible conflict of interest with his own accord.  “It was appropriate for all that to be handled by
independent directors,” Dell said.  The exclusivity payments were at issue in an antitrust
lawsuit filed against Intel by AMD, a New York state probe of
Intel’s business practices, and a Federal Trade Commission suit
brought against Intel in December. Dell, based in Round Rock,
Texas, said in June that it had set aside $100 million for the
SEC settlement.  Efforts to Improve  Without admitting or denying wrongdoing in the settlement,
the company has made efforts to improve its accounting and
disclosures, Michael Dell said.  Dell’s former CEO,  Kevin Rollins , and  James Schneider , the
company’s former chief financial officer, agreed to pay fines of
$4 million and $3 million, respectively. Schneider was suspended
from appearing or practicing before the SEC as an accountant for
five years. The SEC, as urged by the company in its settlement
proposal, spared Michael Dell similar punishment.  John Worland, an attorney for the SEC, said the settlement
was appropriate and that there isn’t evidence the company
intended to defraud.  “The settlement is appropriate” and “represents a strong
example of regulatory enforcement,” Worland said.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Dell
Inc., 10cv1245, U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 