-- Demand From Indian Steelmakers Will Boost Coal Prices, Gujarat NRE Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-10-13T05:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/demand-from-indian-steelmakers-will-boost-coal-prices-gujarat-nre-says.html
India’s demand for  coking coal  will
boost global prices for the the next seven to eight years,
driving acquisitions from the U.S. to Australia, India’s biggest
non-government producer said.  “Everybody in India right from government-owned steel
mills to private players is looking to acquire coking coal mines
abroad,”  Arun Kumar Jagatramka , chairman of  Gujarat NRE Coke
Ltd.  and its Australia-listed unit  Gujarat NRE Coking Coal Ltd. ,
said in an interview. “They are taking whatever they can get
their hands on, whether it’s in the U.S. or Canada. Australia is
on all their radars.”  Growing steel production in India will increase demand for
coking coal and imports of the raw material into India will more
than double to 56.5 million metric tons by 2015, according to
Morgan Stanley. India increased annual steel output by 34
million tons since 2005 to about 72 million tons and aims to
more than triple capacity to 232 million tons.  The key steelmaking ingredient may climb to a range of $200
to $220 a ton,  Jagatramka  said by phone yesterday. Contract
prices for coking coal have settled at $209 a ton for the
December quarter, according to Macquarie Group Ltd. Prices are
expected to average $191 a metric ton this year, up 48 percent
from last year, Morgan Stanley analyst  Peter Richardson  said in
an Oct. 6 report.  Gujarat NRE Coking gained as much as 1.6 percent to 62.5
Australian cents as of 2:47 p.m. on the Australian stock
exchange. Parent  Gujarat NRE Coke  rose as much as 2.4 percent to
67.20 rupees and traded at 66.75 rupees as of 9:24 a.m. in
Mumbai trading.  Australian Capacity  Gujarat NRE Coking , with two mines in New South Wales state,
will increase production to 6 million tons from 1 million tons
by 2015, Jagatramka said. Gujarat NRE Coke’s capacity in India
is expected to expand to 4 million tons from 1.25 million tons
in the next four years, according to the company’s website.  China last year imported a record quantity of coking coal,
and India almost doubled purchases of energy coal for its power
stations to 60 million tons. Adani Enterprises Ltd., India’s
biggest coal importer, in August agreed to buy an Australian
coal project for A$3 billion ($2.9 billion).  “Given the readiness, you could see at least 10 or 20
companies from India following Adani,” Jagatramka said.
“Indian steel and mining companies are well capitalized, with
one or two consortiums there which have more than $2 billion or
$3 billion in their kitty,” he said, naming  Coal India Ltd.  as
a potential acquirer.  Gujarat NRE Coking aims to expand its mines in Australia,
while seeking acquisitions, Jagatramka said.  “We are open to acquisitions, but would not like to
fritter away our resources or energy,” he said. “We’re not
averse to thermal coal mines, we can see value there but we’re
not actively pursuing that option.”  The company may sell shares in Australia or tap lenders in
India for funding future acquisitions, Jagatramka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  