-- DeNA Shares Fall Most in Two Months on Plan to Buy Ngmoco for $400 Million
-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 2010-10-13T02:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/dena-shares-decline-on-plan-to-buy-ngmoco-for-400-million.html
DeNA Co. , a Japanese game developer,
fell the most in more than two months in Tokyo trading after
saying it will sell shares to fund a $400 million purchase of a
builder of games for Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  DeNA  declined as much as 7.2 percent to 2,203 yen and was
4.3 percent lower at the midday trading break on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange. It was the biggest intraday decline for the stock
since Aug. 4. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 1.1
percent.  DeNA plans to sell 5 million shares as part of its plan to
buy San Francisco-based  Ngmoco  using cash, stock and warrants,
the company said yesterday. A combination with Ngmoco, which
will introduce games for phones that run on Google Inc.’s
Android operating system this quarter, will create the world’s
largest mobile social games platform company, the Japanese
developer said.  “Concerns over the share sale may weigh on the stock in
the short term,” said  Atsuo Takahashi , an analyst at Mizuho
Securities Co., in Tokyo. “The purchase is a positive for the
company in the long term. This acquisition fleshes out DeNA’s
smartphone strategy and increases prospects for the company
gaining market share overseas.”  The purchase may dilute existing shareholders equity by as
much as 5.4 percent, the company said.  The deal is DeNA’s third involving a U.S. company in the
past year, including last month’s purchase of Gameview Studios
Llc. The acquisition of Ngmoco, which is closely held, is slated
to close on Nov. 9, the Tokyo-based company said.  Apple, Android  Ngmoco’s shareholders and employees will get $300 million
in cash and securities and are entitled to additional
consideration of as much as $100 million if performance goals
are met, DeNA said in the statement. Ngmoco was founded two
years ago by former Electronic Arts Inc. executive  Neil Young .  The deal is designed to help DeNA create a unified platform
that will let developers make games that run on both Apple and
Android operating systems, according to the statement. Ngmoco
will also help DeNA to make its Mobage Town gaming site into a
global service, the Japanese company said.  DeNA last month bought Gameview, a Mountain View,
California-based maker of free-play games for mobile platforms.
In October, the company acquired 20 percent of  Aurora Feint Inc. ,
a Burlingame, California-based gaming network with more than 29
million users, according to its website.  With more processing power and better graphics than their
predecessors, smartphones are eating into the game-console
market dominated by Nintendo Co. and Sony Corp. Shipments of
game-capable mobile phones are set to rise 11 percent to 1.27
billion this year, according to market researcher iSuppli.  Facebook, MySpace  In July,  Walt Disney Co.  agreed to buy Playdom Inc. for
$563.2 million, acquiring the second-biggest maker of games
played on Facebook Inc. and MySpace websites. It had also  bought 
Tapulous Inc., a developer of music-related games for the iPod
and the iPad.  In August,  Google Inc. , owner of the world’s most popular
search engine, acquired social-gaming company Slide Inc., as
part of an effort to keep pace with Facebook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  