-- Dimon Calls Foreclosure-Probe Costs `Incremental,' Says Mistakes Unlikely
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-13T18:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/dimon-calls-foreclosure-probe-costs-to-be-incremental-mistakes-unlikely.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  probably will
pay an “incremental” sum to settle foreclosure investigations
and there’s almost “no chance” the bank made mistakes in
seizing homes, Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said.  “It will cost us some money to go back and make sure it’s
done right; it will delay some  foreclosures ,” Dimon told
reporters on a conference call today after posting quarterly
results. “But the whole mortgage issue costs us so much money
now, to me it will be incremental.”  The lender is in  talks  with state attorneys general and
will correct any errors tied to foreclosures, Dimon said. About
115,000 files are under review in 41 states, according to the
bank. The review and resulting clean-up will likely take three
to five weeks, Dimon said.  “We have to have in-depth conversations” with state and
federal officials, Dimon said. “Maybe mistakes were made, but
not where someone got evicted out of a home that shouldn’t have
been.”  Attorneys general in 50 states, consumer groups and
lawmakers have pressed mortgage firms to follow  Bank of America
Corp. , the biggest U.S. lender, which last week curtailed
foreclosures nationwide to check whether faulty documents were
used to confiscate homes.  GMAC Action  Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage unit stopped evictions
in 23 states. The firm said yesterday it added a review for
foreclosure sales nationwide. Litton Loan Servicing LP, a
mortgage-servicing business owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ,
said Oct. 8 it’s halting some foreclosures to examine how
they’re handled.  “We’ve delayed the foreclosure process in almost all of
the states to make sure that we’ve got all of these affidavits
done right, and it’s going to take a lot of manpower and a
couple of weeks to do it,” said Dimon, 54. “At the end of the
day, the underlying substance was accurate. There’s almost no
chance that we’ve made a mistake.”  Chief Financial Officer  Doug Braunstein  said the bank has
identified “some issues” in its foreclosure process and is
reviewing each case on a “loan-by-loan” basis.  Cost of Delay  Foreclosures take an average of 448 days, and borrowers
typically don’t make any payments during that span, Braunstein
said. Delays tied to the probes may cost U.S. lenders $2 billion
for every month that goes by, and the tab could reach
$6 billion, according to  Paul Miller , the bank analyst at FBR
Capital Markets.  Investigations of how banks are seizing homes may prolong
foreclosures by as much as three months, costing about $1,000
per month for each property in the pipeline, according to
Miller, a former bank examiner. The biggest firms likely need to
add staff to comb through the files, costing them each $1
million a year, he said.  “The real true cost is not the expenses, it’s the drag in
the foreclosure system,” Miller said.  A wider moratorium on seizures may endanger a U.S. economic
recovery, Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd 
said in a speech in New York yesterday. His panel has set a  Nov.
16 hearing  to examine mortgage-servicing and foreclosure
practices.  No Moratorium  “A broad, sweeping moratorium is probably unwise,” the
Connecticut Democrat said. “There are many institutions that
are actually engaging the foreclosure process intelligently and
well and doing a good job. To stop that across the board from
happening would be very harmful for the economy.”  President  Barack Obama  also is rejecting a nationwide
freeze on home foreclosures because of potential “unintended
consequences,” White House Press Secretary  Robert Gibbs  said
yesterday. The remarks follow comments by White House senior
adviser  David Axelrod , who said on CBS’s “Face the Nation”
program Oct. 10 that a moratorium may damage the housing market.  Obama does support efforts by state attorneys general to
examine allegedly faulty home foreclosures, Gibbs said.  Attorneys general in all 50 states announced a joint
investigation today into home foreclosures at the largest U.S.
banks and mortgage firms. The states will conduct a coordinated
inquiry into whether banks and loan servicers used false
documents and signatures to justify hundreds of thousands of
foreclosures, Minnesota Attorney General  Lori Swanson  said in a
statement.  JPMorgan’s Case  A mortgage executive at JPMorgan said in a May 17
deposition that she signed thousands of affidavits and documents
supporting the bank’s claims without personally checking loan
records. The Chase Home Finance operation supervisor said she
was among eight managers who together sign about 18,000
documents a month, according to a transcript of her sworn
deposition provided by  Tom Ice  of Ice Legal PA.  JPMorgan was the third-largest U.S. servicer of home
mortgages as of June 30, with $1.35 trillion or almost
13 percent of the market, according to industry newsletter
Inside Mortgage Finance. Bank of America, Wells Fargo & Co.,
Citigroup Inc. and Ally round out the top five.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com ;
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 