-- Turkey's Dogan Said to Attract Interest From RTL, KKR for $2 Billion Units
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 2010-10-13T16:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/dogan-said-to-draw-interest-from-rtl-kkr-for-sale-of-hurriyet-cnn-turk.html
RTL Group SA ,  KKR & Co. LP  and TPG
Capital are among companies interested in assets of Turkey’s
biggest media group  Dogan Yayin Holding AS , valued at about $2
billion, three people familiar with the matter said.  About a dozen investors have shown interest in Dogan Yayin,
and its owner  Aydin Dogan  has drawn up a shortlist of possible
bidders with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., which is advising on the
sale, the people said, declining to be identified because the
talks are private. The sale of Dogan Yayin’s assets, which
include Turkey’s best-selling Hurriyet newspaper and CNN Turk
television, may be completed in the first quarter, they said.  “This is a very positive development for the Dogan
group,” said  Metin Esendal , an analyst at the Istanbul-based
Oyak Securities, who rates Dogan Yayin “underperform.”  Dogan is seeking buyers for its units after the government
demanded $3.8 billion in back taxes. The finance ministry filed
the tax bill last year after Dogan clashed with Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  over allegations in Dogan’s newspapers that
the government had financial links with Islamic charity Deniz
Feneri in Germany, whose officials were convicted of fraud.
Erdogan says the tax administration is independent of political
influence. Dogan is seeking to overturn the demands in court.  An adviser is working on a possible sale of the media
units, Dogan said in a statement to the Istanbul Stock Exchange,
adding that investors shouldn’t pay heed to “news and gossip on
the subject that does not originate from our company.”  Shares Soar  Dogan has received “non-binding bids” for the media
assets, Vuslat  Dogan Sabanci , chairwoman of Hurriyet
Gazetecilik, told CNBC, declining to name the bidders.  Dogan Yayin  closed  16 percent higher to 1.62 liras in
Istanbul, its biggest gain in more than eight months. The
company’s shares had a trading value today of 523 million liras
($372 million), the highest on record.  Hurriyet Gazetecilik & 
Matbaacilik AS , which publishes Hurriyet, rose 11 percent to 
1.79 liras and  Dogan Gazetecilik,  which publishes newspapers 
owned by Dogan including Milliyet, rose 11 percent to 3.22 
liras.  Dogan Sirketler Grubu Holding AS , parent of Dogan Yayin, 
rose as much as 2.9 percent to 1.06 liras.  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. , France’s  Vivendi SA ,  Axel
Springer AG  of Germany and Prague-based  Central European Media
Enterprises Ltd. , a unit of  Time Warner Inc. , have also
expressed interest, the people said.  Dogan presented a list to potential buyers and may package
the assets into portfolios, possibly retaining one or two of the
newspapers and television channels, they said.  Selling Considered  “We might see sales of such assets following the new media
law expected to be passed by the end of the year, lifting the
foreign ownership cap,” Esendal said.  Foreign companies cannot hold more than 25 percent of a TV
or radio company in Turkey, according to the current law. Axel
Springer holds a 25 percent-stake in Dogan TV Holding, a unit of
Dogan Yayin Holding it bought in 2006 for 375 million euros
($524 million).  Dogan Yayin’s chief financial officer  Soner Gedik  didn’t
return e-mails and phone calls seeking comment. The company’s
press department referred to a statement made on July 23 that
said there’s an “ongoing process” including “selling the
whole or part” of Dogan Yayin’s shares or assets.  Luxembourg-based RTL, Europe’s biggest broadcaster, is
looking at “all kinds of opportunities,” spokesman  Oliver Fahlbusch  said. He declined to comment on Dogan.  KKR spokeswoman  Kristi Huller  declined to comment as did
Lisa Baker, a spokeswoman for TPG Capital; Pavla Shaw, a Goldman
Sachs spokeswoman;  Antoine Lefort , a Vivendi spokesman in Paris;
Romana Wyllie, a spokeswoman for CME, and News Corp.  Family Exit  The seller may decide to group the assets under two or
three portfolios each having television, newspapers and
magazines, one of the people said. A “cherry-picking” will be
possible for the buyer, the person said.  Owner  Aydin Dogan  stepped down as chairman of Dogan Yayin
and parent  Dogan Sirketler Grubu Holding AS  on Jan. 1 and
announced plans for his family to withdraw from management. He
remains honorary chairman of the two companies.  Dogan last year held talks to sell some newspapers and the
television channel Star TV to Turkish media company Ipek Medya
Grubu AS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  Mark Bentley  in Istanbul at 
3905 or  mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 