-- Dubai World's Restructuring Officer Aidan Birkett to Step Down on Oct. 14
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-10-13T08:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/dubai-world-s-restructuring-officer-aidan-birkett-to-step-down-on-oct-14.html
Dubai World, the state-owned holding
company seeking to alter terms on $24.9 billion of debt, will
appoint a new management team after its chief restructuring
officer steps down tomorrow.  Aidan Birkett , who was hired from Deloitte LLP last
November by the Dubai government to oversee Dubai World’s
restructuring process, “has successfully completed his work,”
Dubai’s media office said in an e-mailed statement today.  Dubai’s Supreme Committee, set up by the government earlier
this year, will put in place a permanent management team “to
lead the company through its next phase of development and to
implement the new business plan,” the office said.  Until then, Dubai World and its units will continue to be
supervised by the Supreme Committee, chaired by  Sheikh Ahmed Bin Saeed   Al Maktoum  and two other members,  Ahmed Humaid Al Tayer 
and  Mohammed Ibrahim Al Shaibani , according to the statement.  Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main holding
companies, last month said it secured approval from creditors to
change the terms on $24.9 billion of debt.  Dubai and its state-owned companies accumulated $109.3
billion of debt, according to International Monetary Fund
estimates, as the emirate transformed itself into a tourism,
trade and financial-services hub.  Dubai World’s announcement last November that it would seek
to delay repaying loans sparked a plunge in developing-nation
stocks and the largest increase in emerging-market bond yields
over U.S. Treasuries in four weeks. The cost to protect against
a default by Dubai doubled.  The Supreme Committee is “identifying and implementing
value-creative measures to restore Dubai World’s financial
situation, to enhance the value of its assets and ensure the
highest standards of corporate governance,” the media office
said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  