-- Dubai's Worst Office Buildings Will Be Empty Forever: CBRE
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-10-14T11:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/dubai-s-least-attractive-office-buildings-will-be-empty-forever-cbre-says.html
Some Dubai office buildings are so
ill-conceived and poorly located that they will never be
occupied, while others may command no more than the cost of
maintenance, according to  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc .  “Some buildings will be permanently vacant and will never
be let because they are wrongly located, they are of poor
quality or have the wrong legal structure in place,”  Nicholas Maclean , Middle East managing director for the U.S. property
broker, said in an interview.  Speculation fueled Dubai’s property market after foreigners
were allowed to buy real estate in parts of the emirate in 2002.
Buyers with no experience in property management flocked to
purchase floors in planned office buildings before any work
started, resulting in poorly finished towers in inconvenient
locations with multiple owners, Maclean said.  Such places have to compete for tenants in a Dubai market
with an overall vacancy rate of 40 percent, with newly developed
areas on the outskirts hit the hardest. At least 20 million
square feet (1.85 million square meters) of space, about 40
percent of Dubai’s existing office supply, will be added in the
next four years, CBRE estimates. That will put further pressure
on prices that slumped by 60 percent on average since the peak
in mid-2008.  “The further you are away from Sheikh Zayed Road, the less
desirable the location and therefore the quicker rents fall,”
Maclean said, referring to the main business thoroughfare near
Dubai’s coast. “Why would you go there when you can get
accommodation for a relatively low price closer to town?”  Incentives  Landlords are providing incentives such as rent-free
periods of as long as 12 months on seven-year leases and
fitting-out allowances to attract tenants,  Jones Lang LaSalle 
said in a report earlier this month.  “While increasing incentives may make one specific
building more attractive than another, there are still projects
for which it is difficult to attract tenants at any price,”
Jones Lang said. Some properties should be demolished or
converted to other uses to reduce excess supply, it said in a
September report.  Dubai had 2.6 million square meters of offices under
construction as of June, the third most in the world after
Shanghai and Moscow, Colliers International said in a report
this month.  Ten Owners  Most of the new commercial buildings will be completed in
the next two years, mainly in areas that have already seen rapid
construction, such as  Business Bay  and  Jumeirah Lakes Towers .
Most are held by numerous landlords in an arrangement known as
strata title, where a building is legally divided horizontally
or vertically into separately owned properties. Tenants
generally prefer negotiating with a single owner, Dubai-based
MacLean said.  “If you’ve got a 10-story building and 10 owners and you
want to take the whole building, you have to deal with 10
separate owners on one lease,” he said. “It’s impossible.”  Offices in Dubai International Financial Centre, a tax free
area near the main business district, are commanding the best
rents in Dubai, along with those in Emaar Square and on Sheikh
Zayed Road. Rent per square-foot in DIFC is 350 dirhams ($95),
while Emaar Square offices near the 200-story Burj Khalifa are
priced at about 200 dirhams a square foot. When they do bring in
tenants, offices on the periphery of Dubai are achieving rents
as low as 40 dirhams, Maclean said.  Functioning Market  “That is good for Dubai because two years ago you had to
pay a significant rent for Silicon Oasis,” he said referring to
a development that’s a 25-minute drive inland from Sheikh Zayed
Road. “Now we’ve got a market that is functioning properly.”  Rents in the best-located buildings “are at the bottom of
the cycle,” Maclean said. “The others, further away from the
center of the city, have significant declines still to come.”  The  Dubai Financial Market Real Estate Index  closed 1.3
percent lower today. The index has fallen 85 percent from a
record high in September 2005.  Emaar Properties PJSC , Dubai’s
biggest developer, closed down 1.5 percent at 3.94 dirhams,
while Union Properties PJSC lost 1.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 