-- Dubai Electricity 6-Year Bonds May Yield About 6.7%, 10-Year Notes 7.7%
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   H y d e   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2010-10-13T11:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/dubai-electricity-said-to-sell-6-year-10-year-benchmark-bonds-this-week.html
Dubai Electricity & Water
Authority’s planned six-year dollar bonds may yield about 6.7
percent, according to two people with knowledge of the sale.  The 10-year notes may yield about 7.7 percent, said the
people who declined to be identified because the terms aren’t
set. The state-owned utility company may sell benchmark-sized
bonds, which are usually $500 million or more, two bankers
familiar with the transaction said earlier today.  DEWA in April raised $1 billion by selling five-year
dollar-denominated bonds offering a coupon of 8.5 percent. The
issue was yielding 6.446 percent, up 1 basis point, at 3:56 p.m.
in Dubai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Dubai
government raised $1.25 billion last month in its first
sovereign sale since Dubai World sought to delay payments of
$24.9 billion debt last year.  Gulf issuers sold more than $9 billion of bonds in the
three months until the end of September, the most for a quarter
since borrowers raised $16 billion in the final three months of
2009, as investor confidence improved. Dubai received orders of
about $5 billion for its two-part sale.  Moody’s Investors Service today raised its outlook on DEWA,
including related entities DEWA Funding Ltd. and its guaranteed
debt instruments, to “positive” from “stable.” It converted its
issuer rating to a Ba2 corporate family rating.  ‘Efforts’  The change reflects “DEWA’s ongoing efforts to extend its
debt-maturity profile, thereby strengthening its liquidity
profile,” Dubai-based analyst  Martin Kohlhase  said today in an
e-mailed report. Moody’s may upgrade the company in the medium-
term “provided that DEWA continues to prudently manage its debt
maturity profile,” he said.  DEWA’s profit declined 8.6 percent to 1.5 billion dirhams
($408 million) in the six months to June, according to  the bond
prospectus . The company as of Aug. 31 had debt of 24.6 billion
dirhams.  Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned
holding companies, said Sept. 10 creditors holding more than 99
percent of the value of its debt approved a plan to alter the
terms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  