-- Meat, Poultry Prices Will Increase on EPA's Ethanol Decision, Tyson Says
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2010-10-13T22:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/meat-poultry-prices-will-increase-on-epa-s-ethanol-decision-tyson-says.html
Tyson Foods Inc.,  the largest U.S.
meat processor, and chicken and livestock industry groups said a
government decision allowing higher concentrations of corn-based
ethanol in gasoline will raise meat and poultry prices.  “It means burning food for fuel,”  Gary Mickelson , a
spokesman for Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson, said today in an
e-mailed statement. “While this policy improves demand for
corn, it is also contributing to higher consumer prices for
food, including meat and poultry.”  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency agreed today to
let refiners increase the corn-based fuel additive in gasoline
to as much as 15 percent, from 10 percent, for vehicles in
model-years 2007 and later. Meat and poultry producers said
greater use of corn for ethanol will boost feed costs beyond
current levels.  Corn futures in Chicago today reached $5.88 a bushel, the
highest for a most-active contract since August 2008, after the
U.S. Department of Agriculture on Oct. 8 lowered its forecast
for the U.S. crop.  “We’re already seeing corn prices and the cost of raising
a hog heading up,” Randy Spronk, chairman of the ethanol
taskforce for the National Pork Producers Council, said in an e-
mailed statement today. “Any upward pressure on corn prices
will have a negative effect on producers.”  Cathy Milbourn , an EPA spokeswoman, couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment.  The industry doesn’t want a repeat of the last few years,
when high feed costs pushed family farms out of business,
reduced herd sizes and led to $6 billion in losses from October
2007 through March 2010, Spronk said.  Consumers Pay  Greater use of corn by the ethanol industry will push up
chicken prices,  George Watts , president of the National Chicken
Council, said in a statement on the group’s  website . Rising
grain prices led to a 6 percent increase in the retail price of
fresh, whole chickens from 2008 to 2010, he said.  “Consumers will end up paying for the ethanol industry’s
demands,” Watts said. “It is time to put an end to
interference in the market and government mandates that benefit
the ethanol industry and raise the price of corn.”  From December 2007 to February 2010, the cattle-feeding
sector of the beef industry lost a record $7 billion in equity
partly because of high feed costs and the weak economy, the
National Cattlemen’s Beef Association said.  The industry group said in a statement that it “questions
the Obama administration’s commitment to U.S. livestock
producers’ quest to sustain their family operations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shruti Singh  in Chicago at +1-312-443-5937 or
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  