-- Ecuador's Budget Gap May Spin `Out of Control' With New Bill, Albion Says
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2010-10-13T19:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/ecuador-bill-may-push-public-debt-out-of-control-albion-s-palacios-says.html
Proposed changes to Ecuador’s public
finance law may swell government debt and allow fiscal accounts
to get “out of control,” the president of brokerage  Albion
Casa de Valores SA  said.  Plans to exempt short-term treasury notes from being
classified as public debt and a lack of restrictions on the
amount the government can issue each year may let the South
American country take on more debt than it should, Paul
Palacios, head of the nation’s third-largest brokerage, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  Ecuador’s congress is considering a proposal by President
 Rafael Correa  to change the Andean nation’s budget laws to
increase state control over local governments and expand
executive powers to alter spending, according to a copy of the
bill on congress’s  website . The law would also “redefine the
concept of public debt” to increase government “flexibility,”
according to the bill.  “Any process that lets a person, company, or state issue
more debt than it should, without rigorous controls, could put
the system in danger,” said Palacios, who is also an economic
analyst at Guayaquil-based Albion. The government “should be
careful with the amount of the treasuries issued” because the
size of public debt “could get out of control,” he said.  Finance Minister  Patricio Rivera  declined to comment, an
assistant who isn’t authorized to speak publicly, said yesterday
by telephone. National Planning and Development Secretary  Rene Ramirez  didn’t respond to a request for an interview.  ‘Liquidity’  Rivera said Sept. 24 that the treasury notes would be used
if the government needed “liquidity.” The Finance Ministry
hasn’t said what the treasuries will yield, or the amount it may
issue.  Ecuador, South America’s seventh-biggest economy, has had
limited access to financing since defaulting on $3.2 billion in
international bonds since 2008. The country planned the sale of
as much as $1.5 billion of domestic bonds this year to finance
infrastructure projects and cover the budget deficit, according
to the Finance Ministry.  Buy the Debt  The nation’s Social Security Institute will probably buy
most of the debt issued by the government this year, institute
President  Ramiro Gonzalez  said in a June 30 interview.  The government planned to sell $465 million of 12-year
bonds at 7 percent, and $91.3 million in one- and three-year
bonds at an interest rate between 4 percent and 4.5 percent, the
Finance Ministry said in May.  The yield on Ecuador’s 9.375 percent bonds maturing in 2015
was unchanged at 11.6 percent at 2:24 p.m. New York time,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The yield has risen 59 basis
points, or 0.59 percentage point, this year, while the bond’s
price has declined 1.5 cents to 91 cents on the dollar,
according to JPMorgan.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Ecuadorean dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 28 basis points, or
0.28 percentage point, to 9.97 percentage points today,
according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index. Ecuadorean government debt
is the second-riskiest after Venezuela’s among 15 emerging
markets tracked by the bank.  ‘Attempted Coup’  Correa, who was the target of what he calls an “attempted
coup” on Sept. 30 by police protesting changes to a public
service law, is seeking to reassert state control over local
governments after two decades of decentralization and create
“new financial instruments different to public debt,” to
increase funding sources, according to the proposed bill.  The new law would allow the president to modify the budget
by 15 percent and let banks guarantee part of their deposits
with state bonds, according to congress’s website.  Proposed changes to banks’ reserve requirements, allowing
financial institutions to use up to 75 percent of their reserves
held at the central bank to invest in treasury notes, may
decrease confidence in the Andean nation’s financial system if
banks choose to invest the maximum amount allowed under the new
law,  Ricardo Cuesta , chairman of the nation’s  Private Bank
Association , said today.  “By definition, deposit reserves should be totally
liquid,” Cuesta, who is also the executive president of Quito-
based  Banco Promerica SA , said today in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Liquidity is liquidity, not investments.”  Ecuador’s central bank President  Diego Borja  has also
criticized the plan to allow banks to use government bonds to
guarantee deposits, saying Sept. 29 that reserves need to be
liquid. Ecuador approved a new constitution in 2008 that
stripped the central bank of autonomy.  Congress has until Oct. 16 to approve or reject the bill or
it will become law by decree, according to the Finance Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  