-- EDF, Constellation Ties Worsen Over $2 Billion Plant Option
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2010-10-14T06:14:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/edf-willing-to-build-u-s-nuclear-plant-alone-after-constellation-dispute.html
Electricite de France SA , Europe’s
biggest power producer, offered to buy  Constellation Energy
Group Inc. ’s stake in a venture to build U.S. nuclear plants
in a sign relations between the two companies are souring.  EDF will purchase Constellation’s interest at “fair
market value,” EDF said in a letter to its Baltimore-based
partner yesterday. The Paris-based utility wants Constellation
to then forgo an option to sell 12 non-nuclear plants to EDF
for about $2 billion. The option expires in December.  EDF will “vigorously and confidently resist”
enforcement of the option if Constellation takes “imprudent
and destructive” steps to exercise it, the letter said.
Constellation, led by Chief Executive Officer  Mayo A. Shattuck ,
56, responded in a statement yesterday that it will hold its
French partner to its contractual obligations. Constellation
is ready to discuss EDF’s offer, the statement said.  The French utility is the biggest shareholder in
Constellation, which owns the largest natural-gas and electric
utility in Maryland. The two set up the UniStar Nuclear Energy
venture in 2007 to build as many as four nuclear reactors at
the Calvert Cliffs plant in Maryland, and in New York.
Relations between the two cooled when Constellation said Oct.
9 it was abandoning negotiations on a $7.5 billion loan
guarantee for the Maryland project, citing excessive risk.  New Partner  EDF is ready to move forward with development of the
Calvert Cliffs reactor on its own, “with a view to bringing
in a new U.S. partner at the appropriate time,” the company
said in yesterday’s letter.  “It’s not apparent to me that the options presented by
EDF in the letter to restructure UniStar would be comparable
to the value Constellation would have today from exercising
the put option,”  Paul Patterson , an analyst at Glenrock
Associates LLC in New York, said by phone.  Constellation shares fell 1 cent to $32.72 in trading on
the New York Stock Exchange yesterday. EDF shares gained 0.4
percent to 30.83 euros in Paris.  EDF’s Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio , 61, is
pressing ahead with plans to build new reactors in Italy, the
U.K. and the U.S. even as costs and delays mount for its
nuclear projects in France and the U.S.  Outlook  The French utility owns about 8.4 percent of
Constellation and holds a  board seat  after it signed a $4.5
billion deal two years ago to acquire half of Constellation’s
nuclear assets. The agreement prevented an acquisition by
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., a unit of  Warren Buffett ’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  Proglio agreed in July to sell the company’s U.K. power
unit for 5.8 billion pounds ($9.3 billion), including debt, to
a group led by  Li Ka-shing ’s Cheung Kong Infrastructure
Holdings Ltd.  Constellation earnings rose to 36 cents a share in the
second quarter from 4 cents a share a year earlier, it said on
July 28.  EDF said July 30 first-half net income dropped 47 percent
to 1.7 billion euros due in part to expenses related to its
investment in Constellation and the outlook for low power
prices. The company reiterated its forecast of a 3 percent to
5 percent growth in earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at  susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 