-- Eesti Energia Withdraws Higher Estonian Tariff Request After Criticism
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-10-13T07:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/eesti-energia-withdraws-higher-estonian-tariff-request-after-criticism.html
Eesti Energia AS, the biggest Baltic
utility, withdrew its application to raise Estonian power
transmission fees after Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  called the
request “plain stupid.”  Eesti Energia’s Distribution Network unit withdrew its
application to the country’s competition board to raise fees for
customers by 12.4 percent next March as “there has been no
agreement so far,” the Tallinn-based company said in an e-
mailed statement late yesterday.  Ansip, who is struggling to control inflation before the
country adopts the euro next year, said last month that the
country has “few tools” to control price increases. He was
responding to a Sept. 20 statement by European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  that Estonia must remain “alert”
on price developments and take “forceful” action to stem
inflation after joining the euro-region economy.  “This kind of application was audacious, plain
stupidity,” Ansip told journalists on Oct. 7. “I cannot tell
an independent institution - the competition board - what they
should do about this application but I can express myself to the
extent that I understand price formation of electricity. Asking
for such an increase is utterly unthinkable.”  The company had lowered its request last month, citing
higher sales forecasts, after applying for an 18.8 percent
increase last March as lower revenue would not cover costs of
upgrading aging networks. Estonia’s electricity prices are among
the lowest in the European Union.  Accelerating Inflation  Estonia’s  inflation  rate jumped in September to 4 percent,
the highest rate in 20 months, mainly because of rising food and
heating prices.  Deputy central bank Governor  Marten Ross  last month urged
the government to increase domestic competition to keep
inflation in check as the country’s adoption of the euro in
January provides an excuse to boost prices.  Inflation expectations in the Baltic nation of 1.3 million
people are rising because of increasing food and fuel costs and
concern that adopting the euro in January will boost prices.  The central bank is trying to protect Estonia’s  economic
recovery  after the inflation rate rose to 10.6 percent in 2008,
choking off domestic demand and contributing to the EU’s second-
deepest recession during the global financial crisis.  Mart Laar , a former prime minister, and the chairman of
junior coalition party Isamaa ja Res Publica Liit, said Economy
Minister  Juhan Parts , a fellow party member, had “pulled a hand
brake to stop electricity prices from rising amid galloping
inflation,” according to an e-mailed statement late yesterday.
The competition board is accountable to Parts, while it is fully
independent in its decisions by law.  Laar said the government’s next task in slowing inflation
is to approve measures to reduce “excessive” subsidies for
renewable energy producers. Ansip said last month the plan
should be delayed until after general elections in March to keep
investors’ trust.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  