-- Einhorn `Excited' About Vodafone Amid Expectations for Verizon Dividend
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-13T23:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/einhorn-excited-about-vodafone-amid-expectations-for-verizon-dividend.html
Vodafone Group Plc ’s shares may be
undervalued as analysts are disregarding the U.K. company’s 45
percent ownership in  Verizon Wireless  because it doesn’t pay a
dividend, according to hedge fund manager  David Einhorn .  “We have a lot excitement relating to Vodafone,” Einhorn,
who profited from bets against Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008, said today at the Value Investing Congress in New York.
“Eventually they will begin to collect a dividend, perhaps as
early as next year, and then we will get a revaluation of that
stock from there.”  Vodafone, the world’s biggest wireless operator, hasn’t
received a dividend since 2005 from its stake in Verizon
Wireless, whose head  Lowell McAdam  was promoted to president and
chief operating officer of New York-based  Verizon Communications
Inc.  in September. Vodafone shares have risen 14 percent to
163.9 pence so far in 2010.  McAdam may need to decide whether to change the ownership
structure of Verizon Wireless, the biggest U.S. mobile-phone
carrier. Analysts have said the most likely outcomes are Verizon
Communications buying Vodafone’s stake, Verizon Wireless paying
dividends again or a merger of Vodafone and Verizon
Communications.  Einhorn said he maintains his bet against  Moody’s Corp. ,
the rating agency that is being sued by investors together with
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings for grading mortgage bonds
too high and maintaining the ratings months after home-loan
defaults surged in 2007.  ‘Likely to Lose’  “The rating agencies are highly likely to lose, in
particular Moody’s,” said Einhorn, who runs New York-based
Greenlight Capital Inc. “Moody’s has very limited resources to
pay off claims to bondholders who may turn out to have been
defrauded.”  The hedge-fund manager said in May 2009 that he is shorting
Moody’s, whose flawed ratings on asset-backed debt helped fuel
the credit crisis and whose largest largest shareholder is
 Warren Buffett . Moody’s shares have risen 4 percent to $27.88 in
2010. They lost 48 percent in 2007 and fell 44 percent in 2008,
before rallying 33 percent in 2009.  “Ultimately this is the kind of short that will linger
along for a good while until we eventually get to the beginning
of a legal cascade at which point the market will revalue the
company and it can easily turn out that the plaintiffs become
the new owners of the rating agencies,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 