-- EMC Unveils Data Appliance, New York Stock Exchange as Customer
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2010-10-13T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/emc-unveils-data-appliance-new-york-stock-exchange-as-customer.html
EMC Corp.  will unveil a data-storage
computer and announce the New York Stock Exchange as an initial
customer, taking on companies such as  Oracle Corp. ,  Teradata
Corp.  and  International Business Machines Corp.   The EMC Greenplum Data Computing Appliance will include 16
Intel Corp.-based servers as well as storage and software from
EMC’s Greenplum Inc. acquisition. It is the first such
integrated system from the largest maker of storage computers,
said  Scott Yara , a vice president in the data computing products
division and Greenplum’s co-founder.  The market for large database machines capable of rapidly
storing and analyzing vast amounts of information is heating up,
as Oracle uses hardware assets from its Sun Microsystems
acquisition to introduce new products and IBM buys  Netezza Corp. 
The industry is forecast to reach $13.2 billion in sales by
2013, according to 451 group, a market research firm.  To compete, EMC agreed to buy Greenplum in July and created
the data computing products division. The unit has added 50
employees so far, for a total of about 200, and plans to exceed
500 workers by the end of the year, Yara said.  In addition to the NYSE, machines have gone to some of
EMC’s biggest customers, Yara said, declining to name them. EMC
will introduce the product and ring the opening bell at the
exchange today.  Customers can add data to each of the computer’s 16 servers
at one time at a rate of about 10 terabytes an hour, Yara said.
That’s twice as fast as Oracle’s Exadata and five times as fast
as products from Netezza and Teradata, he said. Data on the
other systems must enter “through one door,” he said.  EMC , based in Hopkinton, Massachusetts, plans to introduce
more products that combine software, hardware and storage in one
device, Yara said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  