-- Emerging-Market Equities, Currencies Gain on Signs of an Economic Recovery
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-10-13T05:34:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/emerging-stocks-currencies-gain-on-signs-of-strength-in-asia-fed-hopes.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, helping
the benchmark index to rebound from its biggest drop in seven
weeks, amid signs of strength in Asian economies and as the U.S.
central bank signaled it will do more to defend a recovery.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  added 0.6 percent to
1,105.34 as of 1:14 p.m. in Singapore after yesterday declining
0.8 percent. The MSCI China Index climbed 0.5 percent, the
Jakarta Composite Index in Indonesia and Thailand’s SET Index
both jumped more than 0.8 percent. Currencies strengthened, led
by a 1.1 percent increase in South Korea’s won.  China’s customs bureau said today exports rose 25.1 percent
in September, joining reports released today showing gains in
Japanese machinery orders and Australia’s consumer confidence in
signaling that Asia’s recovery is strengthening. U.S. Federal
Reserve policy makers said in minutes of their Sept. 21 session
released yesterday that they last month were prepared to ease
monetary policy “before long.”  “The export data reassures investors that China’s economy
will grow steadily as there’s no major worry over a big slump in
external demand,” said  Zhang Ling , a fund manager at Shanghai
River Fund Management Co. “The rally may carry on.”  Anhui Conch Cement Co.  jumped 6.8 percent in Hong Kong
after the Chinese government earlier said it plans to boost
sales of construction materials and cement in rural areas. PT
International Nickel Indonesia and  Hindalco Industries Ltd.  rose
at least 1 percent after copper, nickel and tin prices advanced.
 Hynix Semiconductor Inc.  gained 3.1 percent after Intel Corp.,
the world’s biggest chipmaker, predicted fourth-quarter sales
that beat analysts’ estimates.  Shanghai Composite Fluctuates  The Shanghai Composite Index fluctuated after surging 7
percent in the three days since the end of a weeklong holiday.
 China Shenhua Energy Co.  slid 2.7 percent, pacing declines among
coal producers, on speculation recent gains were excessive given
the outlook for earnings.  Chinese stocks will extend gains as investors increase
purchases in a market that lagged behind in the recent rally,
 Mark Mobius , who oversees about $40 billion as chairman of
Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s emerging markets group, said
yesterday. Valuations aren’t “excessive” and the flow of funds
into Asia is “sustainable,” he said.  The won rose to 1,119.20 per dollar after the Fed minutes
boosted appetite for higher-yielding regional assets. Taiwan’s
dollar gained 0.8 percent to NT$30.81, according to Taipei Forex
Inc. The Philippine peso rose 0.5 percent to 43.43 and the Thai
baht advanced 0.5 percent to 29.83 after touching a 13-year
high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  