-- Emerging-Market Equities, Currencies Gain on Signs of an Economic Recovery
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-10-13T11:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/emerging-market-equities-currencies-gain-on-signs-of-an-economic-recovery.html
Emerging-market stocks rose,
rebounding from their biggest drop in seven weeks, as the
Federal Reserve signaled it was willing to pump more money into
the economy and Chinese exports surged.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  added 1.1 percent to
1,111.22 as of 11:54 a.m. in London, on course for its biggest
increase in a month after yesterday declining 0.8 percent.
India’s  Sensitive Index  jumped 2.4 percent, the MSCI China Index
climbed 2 percent and Russia’s  Micex  gained 0.9 percent.  Federal Reserve policy makers said in minutes of their
Sept. 21 session released yesterday that last month they were
prepared to ease monetary policy “before long.” China’s
customs bureau said today exports rose 25.1 percent in
September, joining reports released today showing gains in
Japanese machinery orders and Australia’s consumer confidence in
signaling the recovery in the Asian-Pacific region is
strengthening.  “What the Fed did last night and said in its statement has
helped feed the more buoyant tone today, and secondly out of
China we’ve had some trade numbers, money supply numbers, that
all looked relatively good as well,” said  Nigel Rendell , a
senior emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital in London.  Federal Reserve policy makers said they were prepared to
ease monetary policy “before long” and focused on purchases of
Treasury securities and boosting inflation expectations as ways
to add stimulus. The minutes triggered dollar weakness and
fuelled rallies in gold, copper and oil.  Russia, South Africa  The world’s biggest natural gas producer,  OAO Gazprom ,
whose tariffs are linked to oil, jumped 0.5 percent. Russian
gold and silver producer  OAO Polymetal  rose 2.3 percent.  South Africa’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index  advanced 1.2
percent to 30,122.23, breaching 30,000 for the first time since
July 2008 as miners gained. Priniel Gungudoo, an equity
portfolio manager at Johannesburg-based Standard Bank Group
Ltd., described that as a key technical level.  Poland’s WIG20 stock index surged 1.3 percent, led by a 3.2
percent gain for  KGHM  Polska Miedz SA, the country’s only copper
producer.  Oil rose 1.3 percent to $82.71 a barrel in electronic
trading in New York. Copper rallied 0.3 percent and gold jumped
0.5 percent.  The Korean won strengthened 1 percent to 1,120.7 to the
dollar, its biggest gain for a week. The South African rand rose
0.7 percent to 6.8413 per dollar, and earlier reached 6.8174,
the currency’s strongest level since January 2008.  ‘Sustainable’  Chinese stocks will extend gains as investors increase
purchases in a market that lagged behind in the recent rally,
 Mark Mobius , who oversees about $40 billion as chairman of
Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s emerging markets group, said
yesterday. Valuations aren’t “excessive” and the flow of funds
into Asia is “sustainable,” he said.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  advanced 0.7 percent. It has
surged 7.7 percent in the four days since the end of a weeklong
holiday. Indian stocks hit their highest level since January
2008.  Wipro , India’s third-largest software exporter, rose 4.5
percent, its strongest gain since May.  Infosys Technologies
Ltd. , the second-biggest, rose 2.5 percent to a record high.  Technology stocks in the MSCI emerging index gained 1
percent after Intel Corp., the world’s largest chipmaker,
forecast fourth-quarter sales that beat analysts’ estimates,
helped by demand in emerging economies.  The difference between the return investors demand from
emerging-market bonds and U.S. Treasuries narrowed 7 basis
points to 2.53 percent, the lowest level since April, according
to the  JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ index .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  