-- Toyota Will Pay Tesla $60 Million for Development of Electric RAV4 Parts
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-10-14T00:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/tesla-says-toyota-to-pay-60-million-for-rav4-work-update1-.html
Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s
largest automaker, will pay affiliate  Tesla Motors Inc.  about
$60 million to develop batteries, motors and other parts for an
electric-drive vehicle the companies are collaborating on.  The terms of the deal, initially announced in July, were
completed Oct. 6, Palo Alto, California-based Tesla said
yesterday in a regulatory filing. Tesla is modifying its
lithium-ion battery packs, motors, power electronics, gearbox
and software for Toyota’s compact RAV4 sport-utility vehicle.  “Its initial investment in Tesla, and now this payment,
show Toyota has decided electric cars aren’t going to be fringe
vehicles,” said  James Bell , executive market analyst at Kelley
Blue Book in Irvine, California. “Companies like  Nissan  and  GM 
are heavily committed to electric-car programs, and it looks
like Toyota has decided to step up its efforts.”  Toyota showed a prototype version of the electric RAV4 to
U.S. dealers last week in Las Vegas. The world’s biggest seller
of hybrid cars, led by its Prius model, bought a $50 million
stake in Tesla this year with a goal of collaborating in
battery-powered vehicles.  Toyota  climbed 1.5 percent to 2,889 yen as of 9:06 a.m. in
Tokyo trading. Tesla rose 30 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $20.54
yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, and has
gained 21 percent since the initial public offering in June.  Tesla this month took over Toyota’s former joint-venture
plant in Fremont, California, and is modifying technology used
in its $109,000 Roadster sports cars for the compact Toyota SUV.
The electric RAV4 is due by 2012, Toyota said in July.  The $60 million payment from Toyota is only for research
and development work done by Tesla and not for components that
will be eventually supplied for the vehicles, said  Khobi Brooklyn , a spokeswoman for Tesla.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue in Tokyo at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net . 