-- Etisalat Said to Seek More Than $9 Billion of Debt for Zain Bid
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-10-13T15:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/etisalat-said-to-seek-more-than-9-billion-of-debt-in-funding-for-zain-bid.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. ,
the United Arab Emirates’ largest phone company, plans to borrow
more than $9 billion to buy shares in Mobile Telecommunications
Co., three bankers familiar with the deal said.  The financing to acquire a stake in Zain, as the Kuwaiti
phone company is known, would be the largest acquisition loan by
a company in the Middle East and Africa since at least 1999,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It may take the form of
a short-term bridge loan that will be replaced with longer-term
financing, said the bankers, who declined to be identified as
the discussions are private.  Emirates Telecom, known as Etisalat, started talks with
banks to finance the deal, Al-Bayan reported today citing Chief
Financial Officer Salem Al-Sharhan.  Jamal Al-Jarwan , chief
executive officer of Etisalat’s international investments
department, couldn’t be reached for comment.  The Abu Dhabi-based company will take out loans, sell
international bonds or a combination, according to the report in
Al-Bayan which didn’t identify lenders. Etisalat won’t need
financing from the government, according to the newspaper.  Etisalat last month offered to buy 46 percent of Zain in a
deal valuing the company at about $11 billion.  National Bank of
Kuwait  SAK, an adviser to Etisalat on the acquisition, is also
arranging loans to finance it, Kuwait news agency KUNA reported,
citing National Bank’s Chief Executive Officer  Ibrahim Dabdoub .  The deal would give Etisalat majority control of Zain and
extend its reach in the Middle East, where Zain operates in
countries from Kuwait and Iraq to Bahrain. Etisalat offers
telecommunications services in 18 countries in the Middle East,
Africa and Asia, counting more than 100 million customers,
according to its website. The seven emirates of the  U.A.E make
up  about 86 percent of Etisalat’s sales.  Etisalat had 11.3 billion dirhams ($3.08 billion) of cash
at the end of last year, earnings statements show.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  