-- EU May Increase Imports of Brazilian Ethanol Through 2020, Adviser Says
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2010-10-13T15:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/eu-may-increase-imports-of-brazilian-ethanol-adviser-forecasts.html
The European Union may increase
imports of Brazilian ethanol from sugarcane to meet its 2020
environmental targets because supplies of biofuels from plant
waste and municipal trash are insufficient, a consultant said.  The 27-nation bloc lacks a subsidy system to promote enough
production of fuels from waste, said Maelle Soares Pinto,
director of the Europe and Africa unit at  Hart Energy
Consulting , a fuels adviser that has counted BP Plc and U.S.
government agencies among its clients. Supplies will lag demand
by 2015, she said today at a conference in Copenhagen.  “The EU will have to import more Brazilian ethanol,”
Pinto said at the  International Conference on Lignocellulosic
Ethanol . The EU’s Renewable Energy Directive “doesn’t provide
subsidies or tell members how to promote these biofuels.”  The EU has a target of deriving 10 percent of
transportation fuel from biofuels by 2020. It has no target for
the so-called second-generation ethanol made from non-food crops
by companies such as Spain’s  Abengoa SA , Denmark’s Dong Energy
A/S and  CropEnergies AG  of Germany.  Under a 2007 law, the U.S. is  required to use 36 billion
gallons of ethanol in 2022 , with 16 billion of it second-
generation biofuels.  Second-generation biofuels have the potential to replace 65
percent of gasoline used in the EU by 2020, industry analyst
Bloomberg New Energy Finance said in a Sept. 13 study. A
business-as-usual approach would see the market achieve only 1.7
percent of its revenue potential, the report said.  “The technology is ready for deployment, but it will only
be deployed if the framing conditions are right for Europe,”
said  Steen Riisgaard , chief executive officer of Novozymes A/S,
in a speech at the conference. Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based
Novozymes makes enzymes used to catalyze reactions in the
production of second-generation biofuels.  Europe has no market for second-generation biofuels nor the
logistics to collect the feedstock, Riisgaard said. Loan
guarantees, subsidies for new plants and U.S.-style mandatory
blending targets are needed to boost European production, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gelu Sulugiuc  in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  