-- Euro May Extend Gain Against Pound on Rate Rise Outlook, Citigroup Says
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-13T09:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/euro-may-extend-gain-against-pound-on-rate-gap-citigroup-says.html
The euro may extend gains versus the
pound after surpassing 88 pence for the first time since May on
speculation the European Central Bank will tighten monetary
policy before the Bank of England does, Citigroup Inc. said.  The  difference  between the two-year euro swap rate and its
British counterpart, which Citibank uses as a measure of
relative interest-rate expectations, has risen to 19.85 basis
points from 17.25 basis points last week, suggesting the euro
could go higher, the bank said in an e-mailed note today. The
differential is near levels reached in the immediate aftermath
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse, Citigroup said.  ECB Governing Council member  Axel Weber  said yesterday the
central bank should stop its bond-purchase program, threatening
to remove a lifeline for European governments and banks trying
to shore up their finances. Referring to other emergency
measures, he said the risk of “exiting too late” is greater
than the danger of “exiting too early.” On the same day, Bank
of England policy maker David Miles said officials must not
withdraw stimulus too soon.  “We think this reflects very pronounced investors’
dovishness with regard to the Bank of England,” wrote  Valentin Marinov , a London-based currency strategist at Citigroup.
“Investors may be also getting a tad too hawkish on the ECB.”  To be sure, Marinov said the rate gap may struggle to stay
at these “extreme highs” and the euro’s gain beyond current
levels could be less pronounced than its recent pace.  The euro rose 0.2 percent against the pound to 88.23 pence
as of 10:34 a.m. in London. The European currency appreciated
0.5 percent versus the dollar to $1.3994.  The euro is the top-performing currency in the past month,
beating its major trading partners with a 4.3 percent advance,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  