-- European Stocks Climb Most in Six Weeks; ASML, Porsche Advance on Earnings
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-10-13T16:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/european-index-futures-climb-asml-man-group-standard-chartered-may-move.html
European stocks  advanced, climbing
the most in six weeks, after minutes from the Federal Reserve
showed policy makers are prepared to buy more government debt,
and Intel Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. reported earnings that
topped estimates.  ASML Holding NV climbed 5 percent as the company posted
better-than-estimated profit and Intel, the world’s largest
chipmaker, forecast sales that exceeded analysts’ projections.
Porsche SE gained the most in almost three months after the
carmaker narrowed its full-year loss. Standard Chartered Plc
fell after the bank announced a 3.3 billion-pound ($5.2 billion)
share sale.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  added 1.4 percent to
266.25 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, rebounding from
yesterday’s 0.3 percent slide. The gauge last week jumped 1.2
percent amid speculation that the Fed will announce plans to
stimulate economic growth at its Nov. 2-3 meeting.  “Clearly the U.S. economy with high levels of debt needs
as much quantitative easing as is necessary to get the economy
growing again,” Andreas Utermann, chief investment officer at
the RCM unit of Allianz Global Investors, which manages about
$1.3 trillion, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We
anticipate more quantitative easing to come,” he said.  Trading resumed on NYSE Euronext’s European markets in
Paris, Lisbon, Amsterdam and Brussels after unspecified
technical problems forced the stock exchange operator to suspend
trading for half an hour.  Quantitative Easing  The Fed yesterday published minutes from its Sept. 21
meeting showing that it will be ready “before long” to
increase purchases of Treasuries. The U.S. central bank also
discussed boosting inflation expectations as a way to prop up
the economy.  National European benchmark indexes advanced in all 18
western markets today, except Luxembourg. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100
Index  gained 1.5 percent while Germany’s DAX Index and France’s
CAC 40 Index both increased 2.1 percent.  ASML rallied 5 percent to 23.18 euros after Europe’s
biggest semiconductor equipment maker said third-quarter profit
rose to 268.5 million euros ($374.9 million), beating the 247
million-euro average of 21 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company also reiterated that 2010 sales will
reach a record.  STMicroelectronics NV, Europe’s largest chipmaker, rose 2.5
percent to 5.68 euros in Paris and Infineon Technologies AG, the
region’s second-biggest, climbed 2.6 percent to 5.49 euros.  Larger U.S. rival Intel said that it will generate $11.4
billion of fourth-quarter sales, plus or minus $400 million,
beating an average estimate of $11.3 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company cited strong demand from
businesses and customers in emerging economies.  ‘Fairly Bullish’  “We’ve been fairly bullish on the tech sector for some
time,” RCM’s Utermann said on Bloomberg Television’s On the
Move with Francine Lacqua. “We thought it was going to be one
of those sectors that would benefit most from any type of
recovery. There is a lot of capital spending going on.”  JPMorgan was the first major U.S. bank to report third-
quarter earnings today. The bank’s profit increased 23 percent
as provisions for losses on mortgages, credit cards and other
consumer loans fell $5.8 billion.  Porsche  climbed 5 percent to 39 euros, its highest price in
five weeks, after the maker of the 911 sports car reported a
full-year net loss of 454 million euros. That compares with last
year’s 3.56 billion-euro loss and was the company’s second
consecutive annual loss because of costs linked to its merger
with  Volkswagen AG .  Porsche forecast that it will breakeven for the last five
months of 2010, and make a profit in 2011 when the carmaker
switches to calendar-year reporting.  Standard Chartered Slides  Standard Chartered slipped 1.7 percent to 1,876 pence. The
shares earlier fell as much as 4.6 percent after the bank
announced plans to sell shares at 1,280 pence for every eight
that investors already own. That’s 33 percent less than
yesterday’s closing price. Temasek Holdings Pte, which owns a
17.7 percent stake, will subscribe to its portion of the sale.  Transocean Ltd. led gains by oil-exploration stocks,
jumping 3.9 percent to 63.30 Swiss francs after the U.S.
government lifted its ban on deep-water drilling. The ban was
introduced following the explosion at BP Plc’s Macondo well off
the Louisiana coast which led to the world’s largest accidental
oil spill.  CGG-Veritas , the world’s largest seismic surveyor for oil
and gas, rallied 8.6 percent to 18 euros. Petroleum Geo-Services
ASA gained 7 percent to 74.30 kroner and TGS Nopec Geophysical
Co. surged 10 percent to 98.05 kroner.  Aixtron, Fresnillo  Aixtron AG , a German maker of equipment used to produce
light-emitting diode screens, jumped 10 percent to 22.74 euros.
The shares rallied after General Electric Co. said its lighting
division may draw as much as 75 percent of sales from LED
products within the next decade, compared with less than 10
percent at the moment.  Fresnillo Plc rose 3.3 percent to 1,282 pence after the
world’s largest primary silver producer said its output
increased to a record in the third quarter. The company also
expects to “slightly beat” its full-year output forecasts for
gold and silver.  Man Group Gains  The shares of Man Group Plc gained 4.8 percent to 269 pence
after the hedge-fund manager said the weekly net asset value of
Man AHL Diversified Futures Ltd. fund was $40.56 at the close of
business on Oct. 11. That’s up 4.5 percent compared with the
previous week’s close.  Aurubis AG  advanced 6.5 percent to 36.79 euros. Berenberg
Bank upgraded the copper smelter to “hold” from “sell,” as
“earnings developments are likely to be positive in 2010 to
2011,” the brokerage said in a note.  Rockhopper Exploration Plc plunged 21 percent to 363 pence
after its advisers said resources may be lower than expected.
The explorer, which is searching for oil and gas off the
Falkland Islands, said it plans to hire a rig to drill more
wells after consultants said that resources may be 30 percent
less than estimated.  Burberry Group Plc dropped 3 percent to 1,008 pence after
the U.K.’s largest luxury retailer said annual profit will be in
the “top half” of analysts’ estimates, disappointing investors
who had expected upgrades after second-quarter sales beat
forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 