-- EU Moves to Toughen Rules for Offshore Oil Drillers
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-10-13T12:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/european-union-regulators-move-to-toughen-rules-for-offshore-oil-drillers.html
The European Union took a step
toward tightening rules on oil exploration with an action plan
prompted by BP Plc’s spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  The  European Commission , the EU’s regulatory arm, said it
would propose stricter standards for offshore oil drillers and
broader liability rules. The aim would be to ensure that oil-rig
operators demonstrate their technical capacity to deal with
accidents and to widen EU environmental-liability legislation
covering coastal areas to include all marine waters.  “Safety is non-negotiable,” EU Energy Commissioner
 Guenther Oettinger  said today in Brussels. “We have to make
sure that a disaster similar to the one in the Gulf of Mexico
will never happen in European waters.” In July, he urged EU
national governments, which grant oil-exploration permits, to
ban new offshore drilling in sensitive areas until the causes of
the BP accident are known.  The 27-nation EU is considering ways to improve safety and
bolster the “polluter pays” principle in the petroleum
industry following the Gulf of Mexico spill, the largest in U.S.
history. Offshore installations number more than 1,000 in the
northeast Atlantic Ocean and over 100 in the EU waters of the
Mediterranean Sea, according to the commission.  BP’s Macondo well gushed more than 4 million barrels of oil
into the Gulf of Mexico after an April 20 rig explosion that
killed 11 workers. The spill fouled beaches, killed wildlife and
shut a swath of fishing grounds before the company managed to
cap the well in July.  Temporary Ban  The accident led the administration of President  Barack Obama  to impose a temporary ban on oil and natural-gas drilling
in waters deeper than 500 feet (152 meters) and prompted  BP  to
set up a $20 billion fund to compensate victims of the spill.  “The EU has every interest to act without delay and ensure
that offshore operations in European waters and worldwide comply
with the strictest levels of safety,” the commission said its
 policy paper . The action plan also raises the possibility of
changes to EU rules on the protection of oil-industry workers
and on the safety of machinery.  Any proposals by the commission would need the support of
EU national governments and the European Parliament, a process
that can take two years or more. Oettinger said he aims for the
commission to present before mid-2011 a package of draft
legislation including “more stringent controls” on licensing
and wider environmental liability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  