-- Eurotunnel Backs German Access, Urges Hitachi to Apply (Correct)
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-10-13T18:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/eurotunnel-backs-german-case-for-access-urges-hitachi-to-apply.html
(Corrects name of operator in fifth paragraph.)  Groupe Eurotunnel SA, owner of the
Channel Tunnel rail link between Britain and France, said
Germany’s Deutsche Bahn AG will probably win approval to run
trains on the route and urged manufacturers including Hitachi
Ltd. of Japan to seek access for their own rolling stock.  “We see no reason why the situation should remain stuck
where it was 20 years ago,” Chief Executive Officer Jacques
Gounon said today in Paris after Deutsche Bahn began tests in
the tunnel using a Siemens AG’s InterCityExpress, or ICE, model.  The French government last week questioned whether Eurostar
Group Ltd. could safely be allowed to run Siemens trains through
the 30-mile (48 kilometer) tunnel that are similar to the ones
being tested by Deutsche Bahn. The use of new rolling stock will
require authorization by British and French regulators.  Deutsche Bahn, which said Sept. 22 that it aims to begin a
service linking London with western Germany in 2013, could lure
additional passengers by running trains from the U.K. capital to
Paris, Gounon said. It’s also possible that the company might
get U.K. services up and running for the 2012 Olympics, he said.  Javelin Access  In addition to Siemens, other train makers should take
steps to gain authorization for their products, according to the
CEO, who identified Tokyo-based Hitachi as a likely candidate
with its Javelin units, currently used by Go-Ahead Group Plc for
high-speed commuter services on the U.K. side of the tunnel.  “Any rolling stock that meets the safety criteria should
be eligible for certification,” Gounon said. “From our point
of view the Javelin could go through the tunnel and reach Lille
or Frethun to offer a Kent-northern France service.”  New services through the Channel Tunnel could add an extra
2 million passengers by 2015, with that figure possibly doubling
in a further three or four years, he said.  Eurostar, which carried 9.2 million people through the
subsea link in 2009 on its existing services from London to
Paris and Brussels, will add 10 new 900-seat, 320-kilometer-an-
hour (198 mph) units from Siemens as part of an upgrade costing
700 million pounds ($1.1 billion), it said on Oct. 7.  The new stock will be delivered from 2014, allowing
Eurostar to offer destinations including Amsterdam, Cologne and
Frankfurt, cities Deutsche Bahn has also said it may serve,
according to Chief Executive Officer Nicolas Petrovic.  Eurostar is bracing for competition on routes through the
Channel Tunnel to London’s St. Pancras station after the
European Union introduced rules requiring track owners to grant
access to new operators for cross-border, high-speed trains.  Velaro Variant  The e320 trains that Eurostar has ordered from Siemens will
be a variant of the Munich-based manufacturer’s Velaro D and
similar to the Velaro-derived ICE 4 model that Deutsche Bahn
aims to operate through the tunnel.  The German state railroad’s trains would be 200 meters long
and not compliant with existing rules that require units to span
at least 375 meters to enable swift evacuation in an accident or
fire, though regulators could ease the restriction.  The French government also said last week that the Siemens
trains also fall foul of the rules in having a motor under each
carriage, increasing the risk of fire. Trains must also be able
to split in two and exit the tunnel in opposite directions.  Eurostar’s decision to buy trains from Siemens came as a
blow for Paris-based Alstom SA, since the rail operator is part-
owned by Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Francais, France’s
state-owned railway.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  