-- Leverage Falls From 2009 Peak as Companies Stockpile Cash, Refinance Debt
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2010-10-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/leverage-falls-from-2009-peak-as-companies-stockpile-cash-refinance-debt.html
Companies have cut the median amount
of debt compared to earnings since the first quarter of 2009 as
credit quality continues to improve, according to a report from
 Moody’s Investors Service .  Debt compared to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization has declined to 3.6 times at the
end of the second quarter from a peak of 4.1 times in the first
quarter of 2009, according to the report, Credit Quality: From
Rebound to Relapse.  “There has been a pretty good trend in credit quality and
companies have reserved cash and paid down some debt,”  Mark Gray , managing director in the corporate finance group at
Moody’s and an author of the report, said in a telephone
interview.  Companies have strengthened their balance sheets by cutting
costs and debt, and reducing share repurchases and merger
activity, according to the report. The high-yield bond market
has allowed companies to refinance and extend maturities helping
some of them avoid bankruptcy or a distressed exchange. There
has been more than $209 billion of high-yield bonds issued in
the U.S. this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Balance sheet liquidity has also improved, rising to 10.4
percent at the end of the second quarter of 2010 from about 5
percent in the first quarter of 2008, according to the report.  The ratings company says it expects the improving trend in
leverage and liquidity to reverse as companies are more
confident the U.S. will avoid a double-dip recession and will
increase share repurchases or pursue mergers and acquisitions,
according to the report.  Default Forecast  Rating trends remain positive and supports Moody’s forecast
for the U.S. speculative-grade default rate to fall to 2.2
percent a year from now from 4 percent in September, off the
peak of 14.7 percent in November 2009, according to the report.  Though there has been a decrease in defaults, almost 50
percent of non-financial corporate issuers in the Americas are
rated B1 or lower, or four steps below investment grade. Nine
percent are rated below Caa1, seven steps below investment
grade, as of Aug. 31 according to the report. The ratings
company expects an uptick in the default rate over the next five
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Haunss  in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  