-- Chinese Elders Call for Greater Press Freedom Before Communist Party Meets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-13T08:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/ex-china-communist-officials-demand-more-press-freedom-before-party-meets.html
Twenty-three retired Chinese
Communist Party officials, led by  Mao Zedong ’s former secretary,
challenged the government to improve press freedom days before
meeting to discuss the nation’s new leadership.  The group, drawn from the military, state media and
academia, accused “invisible black hands” of suppressing a
speech last month in which Premier  Wen Jiabao  called for greater
political openness to match the country’s economic gains. The
open  letter  by party elders including Li Rui, the late Chairman
Mao’s secretary, was published on the Internet.  “What right does the  Central Propaganda Department  have to
muzzle the speech of the Premier?” the letter said, referring
to a branch of the party that focuses on ideology. “What right
does it have to rob the people of our nation of their right to
know what the premier said?”  The letter’s release two days before the party’s central
committee meeting reflects an internal debate over the future of
political reform, said  Huang Jing , a visiting professor at
National University of Singapore’s Lee Kuan Yew School of Public
Policy. The move may also be a sign that the reformist camp is
in retreat following the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to
imprisoned Chinese democracy activist  Liu Xiaobo , he said.  The Nobel award was widely viewed in the party as “a
deliberate move to make the Chinese government look bad” and
this besieged mentality has emboldened opponents of political
change, Huang said. Publicly releasing the letter was a
“desperate last effort” on the part of the reformists.  Peace Prize  Liu was given the Peace Prize for his struggle to promote
human rights and democracy, the Nobel committee said Oct. 8. The
54-year-old writer was jailed for 11 years for subversion last
year for his role in organizing Charter 08, an  open letter 
calling for direct elections and freedom of assembly as
guaranteed by China’s constitution.  Of the  303  Chinese academics, lawyers and retired party
officials who signed the letter in 2008, five were also
signatories in the latest petition, based on a list published by
Human Rights in China, a pressure group. These include Hu Jiwei,
former editor of the party’s mouthpiece, People’s Daily, and Du
Guang, a retired professor of the  Central Party School .  Du was questioned by security officers in January after he
described the Liu’s sentence as “stupid and shameful,”
according to a report on the  website  of Radio Free Asia.  The elders do not have influence “but they do have
connections,” said Huang.  Letter Censored  A link to the Chinese-language version of the letter
couldn’t be opened inside China, with screens appearing showing
“network error.” A search in Chinese for Li Rui’s name on
Google.com in China generated the following message on Microsoft
Corp’s Web browser: “Internet Explorer cannot display the
webpage.”  Instructions to censor comments in the domestic media are
made by anonymous officials from the party’s Central Propaganda
Department, which is assuming a role senior to the State Council,
the highest authority in the nation, the latest letter said.
Addressed to the country’s legislature, it called for the party
to respect the country’s  constitutional  guarantee of free speech.  “When our country was founded in 1949, our people cried
that they had been liberated, that they were now their own
masters,” the letter said. “But even today, 61 years after the
founding of our nation, after 30 years of opening and reform, we
have not yet attained freedom of speech and freedom of the press
to the degree enjoyed by the people of  Hong Kong  under colonial
rule.”  ‘Black Hands’  The letter blamed the “invisible black hands” for
squelching Wen’s comments domestically, including an August
speech in the southern city of Shenzhen in which he called for
more political openness. Wen’s comments on a future China with
more freedom during a Cable News Network interview last month
were not mentioned in domestic accounts, the letter said.  “I believe I and all the Chinese people have such a
conviction that China will make continuous progress, and the
people’s wishes for and needs for democracy and freedom are
irresistible,” Wen said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” program
taped Sept. 23 in New York. “I hope that you will be able to
gradually see the continuous progress of China.”  Freedom of expression has deteriorated in recent years,
author Tie Liu, a signatory of both open letters, told Hong
Kong’s  South China Morning Post  yesterday. People in China often
have to turn to Hong Kong to publish items discussing social and
political affairs.  “For our nation to advertise itself as having “socialist
democracy” with Chinese characteristics is such an
embarrassment,” the letter said.  The Communist Party Central Committee plenum will be held
Oct. 15-18 in Beijing.  --  Michael Forsythe . Editors:  Ben Richardson ,  Bill Austin .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  