-- Texas Rangers Face N.Y. Yankees in ALCS After Eliminating Rays Behind Lee
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-13T04:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/texas-rangers-to-face-ny-yankees-in-alcs-after-eliminating-rays-behind-lee.html
Cliff Lee  remained undefeated
in postseason play, pitching the Texas Rangers to a 5-1 win
against the Tampa Bay Rays and into the American League
Championship Series against the New York Yankees.  Lee improved to 6-0 in seven career playoff starts by
throwing a six-hitter with 11 strikeouts last night in the
decisive fifth game of their AL Division Series at
Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida.  Lee’s victory was a historic one for the Rangers, who
had been the only current Major League Baseball franchise
to not win a postseason series.  “It was a lot of fun,” Lee said in a televised
interview. “It was competition at the finest: Game 5
against an unbelievable team and we were able to pull it
off.”  Texas next faces the defending World Series-champion
Yankees in the best-of-seven ALCS, which starts Oct. 15 in
Arlington, Texas. Before this season, the Rangers’ only
postseason appearances were first-round losses to the
Yankees in 1996, 1998 and 1999.  “I’m very excited,” Rangers centerfielder  Josh Hamilton  said. “We’ve always lost in the first round to
the Yankees, so it’s kind of bittersweet to get to the
American League championship against those guys.”  The National League Championship Series starts Oct.
16, when the Philadelphia Phillies host the San Francisco
Giants. The winners of each league’s championship series
advance to the World Series.  Game 5  In baseball’s first Game 5 of a division series since
2005, the Rangers grabbed the lead with a mix of aggressive
baserunning and Lee’s dominance on the mound.  Ian Kinsler 
then sealed the victory with a two-run home run in the
ninth inning, his third homer in five games.  It was the first postseason series in major league
history in which the road team won every game.  Texas won the first two games at Tropicana Field and
then lost two in a row at home before last night’s victory.
The AL West-champion Rangers are the first team to win
three road games in a postseason series since the 2005
Chicago White Sox.  Lee is the third starting pitcher to win his first six
postseason decisions and the first since Orlando Hernandez,
who won a record eight straight with the New York Yankees
from 1998-2000.  Orel Hershiser  won his first seven
postseason decisions, while Lefty Gomez also won six from
1932-38.  Acquired by the Rangers in a July trade with the
Seattle Mariners, Lee beat Rays ace David Price for the
second time in the series. Price, also the losing pitcher
in Game 1, allowed three runs on eight hits in six innings.
Price never had consecutive losses during the regular
season, when he went 19-6 for a Tampa Bay team that led the
AL with 96 wins.  Lee’s 1.44 ERA  Lee, who was 4-0 in the playoffs for the Phillies in
2009, lowered his postseason earned run average to 1.44.
It’s the fifth-lowest ERA for a pitcher with at least five
postseason starts, trailing  Sandy Koufax ,  Christy Mathewson , Eddie Plank and Wild Bill Hallahan.  “When you get to the postseason, it’s the best of the
best,” Lee said. “It’s when you either rise to the
occasion or crumble under the pressure. I hope I continue
to perform my best in these situations.”  Elvis Andrus  used his speed to give the Rangers an
early 1-0 lead, leading off the game with a single and then
stealing second base. When Hamilton hit a ground ball
toward first with one out, Andrus took off for third base
and kept running.  Price took the throw at first base with his back to
Andrus, who raced toward home plate and scored without a
throw.  After the Rays tied the game in the bottom of the
third with three one-out singles off Lee, aggressive base-
running put Texas back in front the next inning.  Nelson Cruz  hit a two-out double, stole third and came home
standing up when the throw by Tampa Bay catcher  John Jaso 
sailed into left field.  ‘Spring Training Mistakes’  The Rangers pushed across a third run when the Rays
failed to turn a double play in the sixth inning.  With runners on first and second and one out, Kinsler
hit a ground ball to first base. While Tampa Bay got the
lead runner out, Kinsler was ruled safe at first and Price,
who was covering first, turned briefly to dispute the call.
 Vladimir Guerrero  kept running from second base and slid
headfirst into home plate just ahead of Price’s throw.  “We made too many spring training mistakes, things
that you cover from the very first day that came back and
beat us,” Rays manager  Joe Maddon  said during a news
conference.  In the ninth inning, Cruz singled off Tampa Bay
reliever  Rafael Soriano  and Kinsler followed with a line-
drive homer into the left-field seats.  “Kinsler’s home run there kind of sealed the deal,”
said Lee, who threw 120 pitches and didn’t walk a batter.
“We scrapped a couple of (runs) away, hustling on the base
paths. Kinsler’s home run was a nice cushion to have going
out for the last inning, for sure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  