-- Canadian Stocks Rise as Shares of Gold Companies, Railroads, Teck Advance
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-10-13T20:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/exfo-freehold-royalty-trust-valener-utility-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks  rose for a third day
as North American companies including CSX Corp. reported
earnings that topped analyst estimates and gold futures gained
on a weaker U.S. dollar.  Canadian National Railway Co., Canada’s largest railroad,
advanced 2.5 percent after U.S. railroad CSX said third-quarter
profit increased 43 percent. Goldcorp Inc., the world’s second-
biggest gold producer by market value, climbed 2.3 percent as
the U.S. dollar dropped to a five-month low against the Canadian
currency. Teck Resources Ltd., Canada’s largest base-metals and
coal producer, rallied 2.9 percent on prospects for higher
copper prices.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  rose 97.67 points,
or 0.8 percent, to a two-year high of 12,673.31.  “There were fears as we were heading into the third
quarter of the possibility of a double-dip” recession, said
 Barry Schwartz , who helps oversee C$360 million ($359 million)
as a money manager at Baskin Financial Services Inc. in Toronto.
“We’re absolutely not seeing that whatsoever out of corporate
profits.”  The S&P/TSX is headed for a fifth-straight weekly gain for
the first time since April 2009. An index of commodities has
gained 8.9 percent during the streak as the U.S. Dollar Index
declined 6.8 percent amid concern that additional economic-
stimulus measures will weaken the currency. Energy and raw-
materials companies make up 48 percent of Canadian stocks by
market value.  ‘Lifting All Boats’  “The debasement of the U.S. dollar and flow into
commodities is lifting all boats in the commodity sector,”
Schwartz said. “It’s hard to find a losing investment there
whether gold, corn, fertilizer, copper -- it’s all doing
fantastic, and that’s because people no longer have faith in the
U.S. dollar.”  The greenback retreated 0.6 percent to C$1.0044 after
Statistics Canada said  new-home prices  rose 0.1 percent in
August after slipping 0.1 percent in July. Six of the nine
analysts in a Bloomberg survey had forecast another decline.  Gold futures gained 1.8 percent to a record $1,370.50 an
ounce in New York. Also today, Canadian gold producers including
Barrick Gold Corp., Goldcorp and Kinross Gold Corp. received
“outperform” ratings in new coverage from  Tony Lesiak , an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. In a note to clients, Lesiak
said many gold producers are cheap compared with other stocks
when measured against their earnings, cash flow or net asset
value.  Barrick Gains  Barrick, the world’s largest producer, advanced 0.9 percent
to C$49.41. Goldcorp increased 2.3 percent to C$45.45. European
Goldfields Ltd., which mines in Greece, led the S&P/TSX with an
8.2 percent surge to a record C$12.78.  Canada’s two publicly traded railroads climbed after
Jacksonville, Florida-based CSX surpassed analysts’ average
third-quarter profit estimate by 3.8 percent, excluding certain
items. Meanwhile,  Tasneem Azim , an analyst at UBS AG, raised his
rating on Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. to “buy” from
“neutral,” citing the company’s cost cuts and valuation
compared with other railroads.  Canadian National rose 2.5 percent to a record C$67.35. CP
rallied 3 percent to a two-year high of C$66.15.  Mining Shares Rally  An  index  of S&P/TSX base-metals and coal companies advanced
to a record as copper increased to a 27-month high. Prices may
gain more than 10 percent this quarter from the prior three
months as demand outpaces supply, a South Korean state
purchasing agency said.  Teck gained 2.9 percent to a six-month high of C$45.99.
First Quantum Minerals Ltd., Canada’s  second-largest  publicly
traded copper producer, climbed 2.5 percent to C$83.50. Taseko
Mines Ltd., which produces copper in British Columbia, jumped
6.9 percent to C$6.94, the highest price since 1997.  Forty-four  of 55 S&P/TSX energy companies rose as crude oil
advanced 1.7 percent after the International Energy Agency
raised its global demand forecast. Nexen Inc., an oil and gas
producer with operations on five continents, gained 4.5 percent
to C$22.40. Cenovus Energy Trust, Canada’s sixth-largest energy
company by market value, increased 1.4 percent to C$30.30.  Freehold Royalty Trust, which owns oil and gas properties
in Canada, soared 5.8 percent, the most since April 2009, to
C$19.30 after announcing plans to convert to a corporation at
the end of the year. The company said it will initially maintain
its monthly  dividend  of 14 cents a share.  Money manager DundeeWealth Inc. surged 4.2 percent to a
two-year high of C$15.77 after receiving a “buy” rating in new
coverage from  Scott Chan , an analyst at Canaccord Financial Inc.
In a note to clients, Chan said DundeeWealth merits a premium
valuation over CI Financial Corp. and IGM Financial Inc. because
of its faster growth rate.  Dundee Corp., DundeeWealth’s majority shareholder, rallied
5.6 percent to C$14.82.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 