-- Facebook Expands Microsoft Partnership, Adding Social Features to Searches
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2010-10-13T22:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/facebook-microsoft-to-make-it-easier-to-find-people-online.html
Facebook Inc. expanded its
partnership with  Microsoft Corp. ’s Bing search engine, letting
people automatically see what their Facebook friends think about
the topics they’re seeking information on.  Bing’s new search screen also will let users become a
person’s friend on Facebook or send a message to the social-
networking service, Microsoft and Facebook said today at a media
event in Mountain View, California. Searches for restaurants or
movies will spotlight the ones that a user’s friends like. Terms
of the partnership weren’t disclosed.  “This is a new era,”  Qi Lu , president of online services
at  Microsoft , said at the event. “Can the search experience be
better if all the people you trust are part of that experience?
You will find that the experience will be much better.”  Microsoft is counting on traffic from Facebook, the world’s
most popular social network, as it steps up competition with
 Google Inc.  Microsoft is merging its search operations with
Yahoo! Inc. this year in a bid to challenge Google’s dominance
in the market. The new features “offer a lot of promise,” said
 Danny Sullivan , who runs the search-analysis website Search
Engine Land.  “This opens the idea that your friends can somewhat mind-
meld with your search engine,” he said. “But there’s still
more to be done. The early implementation shows a lot of gaps so
far to me.”  Better Results?  The queries from Facebook users will help Microsoft refine
its searches, said  Yusuf Mehdi , a senior vice president at the
Redmond, Washington-based company. Bing users can opt out of
being integrated with Facebook, he said.  Microsoft aims to get an edge on Google, which is making
its own search-engine refinements. Last month, Google unveiled a
faster search feature called Instant that gives users results as
they type in a query. Advertisers will spend $12.4 billion on
search ads this year, up from $10.7 billion in 2009, EMarketer
Inc. estimates.  Mark Zuckerberg , the CEO of Palo Alto, California-based
Facebook, credited Bing with spurring innovation in search,
saying at the event that search user interface hadn’t changed
for eight years before Bing.  “The thing that makes Microsoft a great partner for us is
that they really are the underdog here,” he said at the event.
“Because of that, they’re in a structural position where
they’re incentivized to just go all out and innovate.”  Ad Partnership  Microsoft, the world’s biggest software maker, paid $240
million for a stake in Facebook in 2007. Facebook uses  Microsoft 
for search-linked advertisements, though it stopped running its
partner’s banner ads this year. Facebook opted to focus on its
own efforts in that area.  Google’s share of U.S. Internet search rose to 66.1 percent
last month from 65.4 in August, according to Reston, Virginia-
based ComScore Inc.  Microsoft ’s share edged up to 11.2 percent
from 11.1 percent. Yahoo, which has begun using Bing for search,
dropped to 16.7 percent from 17.4 percent, ComScore said.  Microsoft rose 51 cents to $25.34 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have dropped 17
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Burrows  in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  