-- 
Facebook Suit Seeking 84% of Company to Remain in U.S. Court, Judge Rules

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-03-29T00:12:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/facebook-claimant-ceglia-asks-judge-to-send-case-back-to-state-court.html
Facebook Inc. co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  is a resident of  California  and a New York man’s
lawsuit claiming ownership of the social networking site should
remain in federal court, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Arcara  in Buffalo, New York,
ruled today that the suit filed by  Paul Ceglia , who claims a
2003 contract with Zuckerberg entitles him to 84 percent of
Facebook, shouldn’t be moved back to state court. Ceglia had
claimed the Facebook chief executive officer, whose parents
still live in New York, remained a legal resident of that state.  “As of 2010, when this lawsuit was filed, Facebook had
over 500 million active users and employed over 1,600 people,”
Arcara said in his decision. “It is simply incomprehensible
that Zuckerberg intends to abandon his life, friends and daily
management of his multibillion-dollar company to return to New
York and live near his parents.”  Facebook, which operates the world’s biggest social-
networking Internet site, claimed in court papers and in a
hearing in October that Zuckerberg, 26, resides in  Palo Alto ,
California, within walking distance of the company’s
headquarters.  Zuckerberg has lived in California continuously since 2004
and has a driver’s license issued by the state, the judge said.
He also votes, pays taxes and receives his mail in the state,
Arcara said.  ‘Scam Artist’  “We are pleased that the court agreed with us that this
case belongs in the federal court,” Andrew Noyes, a spokesman
for Facebook, said today in an e-mailed statement. “This is a
fraudulent lawsuit brought by a scam artist, and we look forward
to defending it in federal court.”  Terrence Connors, a lawyer for Ceglia, declined to comment
on the ruling.  Ceglia claimed the Zuckerberg hadn’t acted to change his
legal residency since living with his parents in  Dobbs Ferry ,
New York, while a student at  Harvard University . Ceglia’s
lawyers pointed to Zuckerberg’s successful claim, in earlier
litigation, that he was domiciled in New York as of September
2004.  In the earlier suit, which Facebook settled for $65
million, Zuckerberg defended claims that he stole the idea for
the site from classmates at Harvard. The dispute was dramatized
in the 2010 film “The  Social Network ,” which won three Academy
Awards.  SharesPost Inc., an online private-share market, values
privately held Facebook at $54.4 billion. In January,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  raised $1.5 billion in financing for the
company.  Asset Freeze  Ceglia filed the suit June 30 in Belmont, New York, near
his home in Wellsville. At the time, an acting state-court judge
issued a temporary injunction blocking Facebook from
transferring assets. Arcara put the freeze order on hold three
weeks later and it expired July 23.  In October, lawyers for Ceglia told Arcara the suit should
be sent back to state court.  U.S. law permits federal courts to hear cases between
citizens of different states in which more than $75,000 is at
issue. The federal court wouldn’t have had jurisdiction over the
suit if Arcara had found Zuckerberg was legally still a  New York 
resident.  The judge said Ceglia has 14 days if he chooses to file a
revised complaint in the case.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in  Manhattan ,
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 