-- Favre Sexting Case Gives NFL Chance With Women: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-10-13T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/favre-sext-case-gives-nfl-chance-with-women-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
The firestorm surrounding Minnesota
Vikings quarterback  Brett Favre  presents a host of problems for
the National Football League, which will be watched closely as
it investigates allegations that one of its most marketable
stars sent lewd photos to a former New York Jets game hostess.  You have to wonder, though, if NFL owners -- a boys-will-
be-boys club if ever there was one -- realize that Favre’s
predicament has created not just a headache, but an opportunity,
too.  Here’s the NFL’s best chance yet to show women that they
matter. Selling the notion of a more female-friendly NFL (no,
wearing pink shoes for a few weeks isn’t enough) shouldn’t be
that hard for Commissioner  Roger Goodell , who much to his credit
has made it a punishable offense to do boneheaded things like
sending photos of yourself as nature made you to a co-worker.  Here’s a snapshot of the commissioner’s sales job to owners
already fretting not only about concussions, looming lockouts
and salacious text messages.  Goodell must assure owners that what they’re about to hear
has zero to do with morality and everything to do with money.
Gobs of it. It will be at that precise moment that his audience
perks up, pays attention and demands to hear more.  At that point Goodell can offer a few tidbits that even the
owners might not be aware of. Tidbits like, say, that women make
up half of the audience for the defending Super Bowl champion
New Orleans Saints. To which, the owners might be interested to
know that some 150 women lined up before the recent opening of a
female NFL merchandise shop in New Orleans. All of them had cash
to spend.  One of the Few  Of course, the Saints are one of the few professional
sports teams where a woman occupies a position of real power.
 Rita Benson LeBlanc  is the team’s co-owner and executive vice
president.  “Marketing campaigns do not consistently reach into the
female mind or they turn off women,” LeBlanc said in an e-mail,
demonstrating her ability to recognize an untapped market.  The NFL’s approach to merchandising for women used to be
pink it and shrink it. As if women couldn’t possibly want to
wear a team’s jersey with true colors.  The owners might be interested to know that, according to
Nielsen Co., the average number of women watching NFL games has
grown 23 percent faster than the male audience in the past five
years.  And yet it took until now for the NFL to launch its first
advertising campaign aimed at women.  Sales Job  The $10 million project, in partnership with  Victoria’s
Secret  and  Destination Maternity , among other brands, promotes
products ranging from jeans to yoga mats.  Favre sells jeans, too. He’s the face of  VF Corp.’s 
Wrangler brand. Favre in one TV commercial is shown
quarterbacking a team of average Joes to the musical
accompaniment of  George Thorogood ’s “ Bad to the Bone .”  While Favre is pitching denim, the NFL is investigating
whether he left inappropriate voice mails and sent lewd
photographs to Jenn Sterger when both were with the Jets in
2008. The married Favre also allegedly pursued two massage
therapists employed by the Jets.  Favre declined to comment on the allegations, reported by
the website  deadspin.com , after Minnesota’s loss to the Jets on
Monday night.  Last year I asked Goodell to name the most encouraging new
revenue stream for the NFL. He said wireless, not women.  When it comes to American men as an audience, the NFL,
which has about $8 billion in annual revenue, is saturated. And
the international audience doesn’t seem to have much of an
appetite for the game.  Fun, Entertaining  Professional sports leagues and advertisers don’t need to
dehumanize women in order to be fun and entertaining. American
men would gather and watch no matter what.  Sad to say, if it isn’t Favre, it’s  Ben Roethlisberger , who
was suspended amid rape accusations. Or it’s Jets players
ogling, hooting and hollering at a female reporter from TV
Azteca.  Goodell is on the right track with his message that men
behaving badly won’t be tolerated. But the league and its teams
should be doing more. Let’s hear and see from the  wives  and
 mothers  of NFL players. Let more teams hold football for
beginners seminars, emphasizing the communal aspect of cheering
for the home team.  I can’t help think of  Magic Johnson , who put his businesses
in urban areas because, as he once said, white or black didn’t
matter. Green is green.  The NFL has a chance to create more fans, generate even
better ratings and increase sales of licensed merchandise.  All that’s left is to put down the welcome mat.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  