-- FDIC Tells Bondholders `Get in Line' for Paybacks by Too-Big-to-Fail Banks
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   R i c h a r d
-- 2010-10-13T18:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/fdic-message-to-bondholders-is-get-in-line-creditsights-analysts-say.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
may start favoring providers of short-term financing over long-
term bondholders when it winds down a systemically important
financial institution, CreditSights Ltd. said.  The regulator is considering paying commercial paper, bank
lines of credit and other short-term obligations first in
resolving the credit obligations of troubled companies. Holders
of senior unsecured bonds with a maturity date of more than one
year “would be expected to ‘get in line’ along with other
creditors,” CreditSights analysts  David Hendler  and  Baylor Lancaster  wrote in a report.  The FDIC released a  document  yesterday that outlined how
it’s considering treating creditor claims when it steps in as
receiver of a troubled firm. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act granted the FDIC authority to take
control of bankrupt or insolvent companies that threaten U.S.
financial stability.  “Our sense from the document is that the FDIC is aiming to
set up a kind of dividing line between unsecured creditors which
function as liquidity providers from other unsecured
creditors,” the CreditSights analysts said today.  Hendler and Lancaster didn’t immediately return telephone
messages left at their offices.  Favoring Liquidity  “I can’t think of a bankruptcy in which maturity was
deemed more important than seniority,” said  David Keisman , a
senior vice president at Moody’s Investors Service in New York
who researches credit loss in bankruptcy.  Favoring short-term creditors may encourage investors to
continue to roll over obligations that allow a company to
continue operating, the CreditSights analysts said.  “We’re trying to provide additional market clarity to
stakeholders who had expressed concern that we would
differentiate in a way that would be abusive or harmful,” FDIC
Chairman  Sheila Bair  said yesterday in a conference call with
reporters.  Under the FDIC proposal, a bridge company would be created
to take over the operations of the failing financial firm.  “A bridge financial company is a completely new entity
that will not be saddled with the shareholders, debt, senior
executives or bad assets and operations that contributed to the
failure of the covered financial company or that would impede an
orderly liquidation,” CreditSights said in its report.  An exception could be made for some short-term creditors if
they are deemed essential to the company’s operations, according
to the proposal.  The FDIC will hold comment periods of 30 days on the rule
and 90 days on broader questions. Final terms are expected to be
settled in the first quarter of next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Richard  in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  