-- Fed Mulls Raising Inflation Expectations to Boost Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2010-10-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/fed-considers-raising-inflation-expectations-to-boost-economy.html
Federal Reserve policy makers may
want Americans to expect inflation to accelerate in the future
so they spend more of their money now.  Central bankers, seeking ways to boost flagging growth
after lowering interest rates almost to zero and buying $1.7
trillion of securities, are weighing strategies for raising
inflation expectations as well as expanding the balance sheet by
purchasing Treasuries, according to minutes of the Fed’s Sept.
21 meeting released yesterday.  Some Fed officials are concerned that expectations of lower
inflation will become self-fulfilling, damping demand by
increasing borrowing costs in real terms, the minutes said. By
encouraging Americans to believe prices will start rising at a
faster pace, the Fed would reduce inflation-adjusted interest
rates and stimulate the economy. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
in 2003 that Japan could beat deflation by using a “publicly
announced, gradually rising price-level target.”  “The Fed is on the verge of actively targeting a higher
inflation rate,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief economic strategist
at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York. U.S. stocks advanced, sending
benchmark indexes to five-month highs, the dollar fell and gold
declined for the first time in three days after the minutes were
released.  Trying to raise inflation expectations is untested in the
U.S. The policy may backfire if actual inflation drifts higher
than the Fed would like, potentially eroding gains won in the
early 1980s by former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , who raised
interest rates as high as 20 percent to subdue prices.  ‘Elegant’ Theory  “The theory is elegant, but it’s unclear in practice
whether short-term moves in inflation expectations really drive
real growth,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays
Capital Inc. in New York and a former Fed researcher.  Jim O’Sullivan , global chief economist at MF Global Ltd. in
New York, said in a Bloomberg Television interview that the
biggest risk is “boosting long-term inflation expectations more
than they lower real interest rates.”  Bernanke on Oct. 15 will deliver a speech on “Monetary
Policy Objectives and Tools in a Low-Inflation Environment” at
a conference at the Fed Bank of Boston. Some of the panels at
the conference will deal with Japan’s experience of deflation.  The Sept. 21 statement saying the Fed “is prepared to
provide additional accommodation if needed” was meant to accord
“with the members’ sense that such accommodation may be
appropriate before long,” the minutes said. The Standard and
Poor’s 500 index is up 2.6 percent since Sept. 21 and rose 0.4
percent yesterday to 1,169.77.  Consumer Confidence  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer
confidence survey showed consumers expect an inflation rate of
2.2 percent over the next 12 months in September, the lowest in
a year and down from 2.7 percent in August.  The Fed gave several options for raising short-term price
expectations, including providing more information on the
inflation rate policy makers consider consistent with their
long-term goals and targeting a path for the price level. For
the first time, the Fed said it could also target a path for
nominal gross domestic product, which isn’t adjusted for
inflation.  “The minutes are one of their key communication tools, but
it’s not clear what that approach will be,” Maki said.  The report provides more detail on the timing and
components of potential easing actions without giving the amount
of any additional asset purchases by the Fed. Since the meeting,
weaker-than-forecast job growth in September and comments by
policy makers, including New York Fed President  William Dudley ,
have fueled speculation that the central bank will soon start a
second wave of unconventional easing.  Projection for Purchases  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists are projecting that the
Fed will announce $500 billion of purchases at the next meeting
Nov. 2-3.  “They’re still ironing out the details,” said  Chris Low ,
chief economist at FTN Financial in New York. At the same time,
“if we don’t get an announcement in the next meeting I think
we’d see quite a bit of disappointment in the bond market and
the stock market,” Low said.  Bond traders expect the Fed’s actions to generate higher
prices. Their inflation expectations for the next five years,
measured by the breakeven rate between nominal and inflation-
indexed bonds, rose to 1.47 percent from 1.2 percent on Sept.
20, the day before the Fed’s meeting. Gold prices hit a record
$1,366 an ounce on Oct. 7.  Removing Punch Bowl  “The bottom line is, they are trying to reflate, and the
market is concerned that historically they have always been late
in removing the punch bowl,” said  Richard Schlanger , a vice
president at Pioneer Investments Inc. in Boston who helps
oversee $18 billion. “We are going to be very judicious in our
asset allocations here.”  Moderate growth and 9.6 percent  unemployment  are curbing
price gains, prompting U.S. central bankers to warn for the
second time in a decade that inflation is too low.  Inflation, measured by the personal consumption
expenditures price index, minus food and energy, has been below
the Fed’s goal for five consecutive months. The price measure
rose 1.4 percent for the 12 months ending August. Prices
excluding food and energy have gained at a 1 percent annual pace
in the three months through August.  The European Central Bank and Bank of England are among
central banks that target an inflation rate through monetary
policy. The Fed, by contrast, has no formal inflation objective;
instead, Fed officials state a long-run inflation rate they see
as consistent with achieving the legislative mandates of stable
prices and maximum employment.  Inflation Target  The FOMC could adopt a combination of inflation targeting
and price-level targeting to get inflation expectations up, said
 Mark Gertler , a New York University economist and research co-
author with Bernanke.  The Fed could restate its commitment to keep inflation
rising annually at around 1.7 percent to 2 percent. At the same
time, the FOMC could announce some tolerance for inflation above
that goal to make up for recent undershooting of those rates,
Gertler said.  That would help convince the public that  the Fed  wasn’t
going to raise rates rapidly if inflation moved above 2 percent,
he said. Such a strategy “tells the market that the farther we
undershoot, the more aggressive we are going to be,” he said.  A nominal GDP target is “a pretty unlikely outcome,”
Gertler said. “I don’t think it is on the table as a serious
proposal.”  Attends Meeting  The Fed’s consideration of price-level targeting may draw
on research co-written by  Gauti Eggertsson , a New York Fed
researcher, and  Michael Woodford  of Columbia University.
Eggertsson attended the FOMC meeting last month, his second
since joining the Fed in 2004.  Eggertsson and Woodford said in a 2003 paper that a
publicly announced price-level target is better than targeting
the rate of inflation as a way to  increase  expectations.
Bernanke cited their work in a 2003 speech about monetary policy
in Japan.  Woodford said in an interview it would be “desirable”
for the Fed to commit to keep rates low to ensure prices rise
along a path identified by the central bank.  If people expect higher inflation, “that’s a reason to
spend more,” said Woodford, who as a professor worked with
Bernanke in the Princeton University economics department.  Japan Policy  Japan, by contrast, tied its low-rate policy last decade to
an inflation rate instead of the price level. Woodford declined
to discuss his talks with Fed officials.  Dudley, who serves as FOMC vice chairman and is the only
regional Fed president to vote at every meeting, said in an Oct.
1 speech that, for example, “if inflation in 2011 were  0.5
percentage point below the Fed’s inflation objective, the Fed
might aim to offset this miss by an additional 0.5 percentage-
point rise in the price level in future years.”  “There’s some evidence that inflation expectations are
playing a role both in limiting demand and keeping prices low,”
FTN’s Low said.  “You look at housing now and one of the reasons people
aren’t buying is they expect they can get a better price if they
wait,” he said. “If that behavior spreads into other markets,
it could be a real problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  