-- Fernandez Bond Yields Fall Below Higher-Rated City Debt: Argentina Credit
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2010-10-13T16:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/fernandez-bond-yields-fall-below-higher-rated-city-debt-argentina-credit.html
Argentine government bonds are
yielding less than notes issued by higher-rated Buenos Aires, a
sign that investors expect Moody’s Investors Service to give the
country its first upgrade in five years.  The federal government’s 7 percent dollar securities due in
2015 rose faster than bonds sold by its capital city since Sept.
10, driving the yield gap to a record 118 basis points as of
12:51 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Government
yields were as much as 235 basis points higher than the city’s
as recently as May 6 and fell below Buenos Aires about a month
ago.  Argentina, whose B3 rating from Moody’s is six levels down
from investment grade and one step below Buenos Aires, is
regaining investor confidence after President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  restructured $12.2 billion of defaulted debt and the
central bank forecast the fastest economic expansion since 1992.
Standard & Poor’s raised the South American nation’s rating one
level on Sept. 13 to B, matching a July increase by Fitch
Ratings and in line with Belize and Lebanon.  “Moody’s rating for Argentina is lagging behind,” said
 Ivan Aftalion , a trader in Buenos Aires with Standard Bank
Argentina, a unit of Africa’s largest lender. “The market has
already called for an upgrade and all that’s missing is for the
raters to catch up.”  Argentine bonds yield an average of 574 basis points, or
5.74 percentage points, more than U.S. Treasuries, compared with
a yield spread of 708 for bonds sold by Belize, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. Moody’s also rates Belize B3.  Moody’s hasn’t changed Argentina’s rating since 2005, when
the country reached an initial restructuring settlement
following its record default on $95 billion of bonds in 2001.  ‘Market Opinions’  Concern about the accuracy of government statistics,
including inflation and gross domestic product, is an obstacle
to the country achieving a higher rating, said  Gabriel Torres ,
an analyst at Moody’s in New York.  “We are aware of market opinions, but we never base our
ratings on them,” Torres said. “The economy and the public
finances have clearly improved in the last few years and we
don’t deny that, but the institutional concerns are still
weighed heavily in our view.”  Consumers expect prices to rise 25 percent over the next
year, more than double the official rate and the most in the
world after Venezuela, according to a Sept. 15 survey by Buenos
Aires-based Torcuato Di Tella University.  Economists and politicians including Vice President  Julio Cobos  and former Economy Minister  Roberto Lavagna  began to
question official statistics in early 2007, when  Nestor Kirchner , Fernandez’s husband and predecessor, made personnel
changes at the national statistics institute. Kirchner and
Fernandez say government data is accurate.  Yield Spread  Five-year  credit-default swaps  tied to Argentine debt fell
16 basis points to 694 yesterday. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to debt agreements.  Warrants linked to economic growth rose 0.26 cent to 12.75
cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank
estimates growth in South America’s second-largest economy after
Brazil will accelerate to 9.5 percent this year.  The yield gap between the government’s bonds and securities
sold by the city will narrow to about 40 basis points, according
to Bulltick Capital Markets, a Miami-based brokerage that
focuses on Latin America.  Buenos Aires’ “fiscal situation is in pretty good shape,”
said  Alberto Bernal , head of fixed-income research at Bulltick.  New Sale  Backed by property taxes and licensing fees, the city run
by Mayor  Mauricio Macri , an opposition leader, generates about
90 percent of its own revenue. Buenos Aires’ rating is the
highest of eight regional and local Argentine governments rated
by Moody’s.  Buenos Aires’ Public Credit Director  Abel Fernandez  said on
Oct. 8 he and city Finance Minister  Nestor Grindetti  are meeting
in Washington this week with representatives of 10 investment
banks to discuss a possible bond sale next year. The city is
looking to sell bonds that mature in seven to 10 years to help
pay $350 million in debt and cover $150 million in
infrastructure projects, including an extension of the subway
system, Fernandez said.  Buenos Aires city sold $475 million of five-year bonds in
March to yield 12.5 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Buenos Aires province also plans to sell $200 million of
bonds as soon as today in a re-opening of 11.75 percent notes
due in 2015, said a person familiar with the transaction who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  ‘Take Reserves’  Argentina, which hasn’t sold bonds overseas since the 2001
default, will use $7.5 billion of foreign reserves to pay
outstanding debt next year, Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  said
Sept. 16. President Fernandez said Sept. 24 that she isn’t
“interested” in selling bonds until yields fall below 8
percent.  “The country can take reserves from the central bank to
make payments while the provinces can’t,” said the city’s
public credit department head Fernandez said in an Oct. 8 phone
interview.  The yield on Argentine government bonds fell below that of
city debt the day S&P raised the country’s rating, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The upgrade gave the sovereign an extra punch,” said
 Enrique Alvarez , head of Latin America fixed-income research at
IDEAglobal in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  