-- Fidelity Uses Growth Concerns to Pick Emerging Market Consumption Stocks
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-10-13T11:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/fidelity-uses-growth-concerns-to-pick-emerging-market-consumption-stocks.html
Fidelity International, which
oversees about $232 billion in assets, is buying stocks linked
to rising consumption in developing markets as global growth
concerns weigh on valuations of developed and emerging equities.  Speculation that faltering growth in the U.S. and Europe
and government action to slow expansion in China may stall a
global recovery has created opportunities for selective stock
picking, Didier Lenouvel, Fidelity’s London-based investment
director of global equities said today at an event in Sydney.  “Our focus is on the emerging markets consumer, including
via developed-market-listed stocks,” Lenouvel said. “It’s not
where the stock is listed that matters, it’s where the revenues
are coming from. Global growth is not the driver for every
company’s profitability.”  Stocks the Bermuda-based firm is buying include Italian
luxury-goods maker  Tod’s SpA  and  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. , South
Africa’s largest retailer by market value. They’re well
positioned to take advantage of rising salaries and evolving
consumer habits in emerging markets, Lenouvel said.  Europe’s sovereign debt problems, China’s steps to tighten
lending, and concern the U.S. economy may dip back into a
recession dragged the  MSCI World Index  down as much as 17
percent from its April 15 high for the year to a low in July.
The gauge has advanced 2.4 percent this month through yesterday
on speculation central banks will boost measures to support
economic growth, and amid optimism that corporate earnings
worldwide will continue to grow.  ‘Risks Well Flagged’  “Corporate fundamentals are reasonable despite the
headwinds,” said Lenouvel. “The risks are out there, but they
are well flagged.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  has jumped 28 percent from
its May 25 low to yesterday, and this month reached its highest
since June 20, 2008. For the year, the MSCI gauge of 21
developing nations has climbed 11 percent, compared with a 3.8
percent increase in the  MSCI World Index .  Stocks on the MSCI Emerging Markets gauge trade at 13 times
estimated earnings, which is still cheaper than the  MSCI World
Index ’s 13.6 times.  Fidelity says it owns stakes in mobile-phone companies in
China to take advantage of rising salaries in the nation, and
that it sees value in global luxury-goods manufacturers such as
Italy’s  Tod’s , 16 percent of whose revenue already comes from
outside North America and Europe.  Financial services companies also present “sizable”
growth opportunities as a growing number of people in emerging-
market countries obtain bank accounts for the first time,
according to the investment firm.  Lenouvel also said Fidelity bought  Elekta AB , the world’s
second-largest maker of radiation-surgery equipment, which gets
revenue from the Middle East, Asia, Africa, and South America,
at the height concern over Europe’s debt crisis. The stock
advanced 50 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 