-- Florida's 30-Second Foreclosure Dash Hits Wall of Fraud Claims
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-10-13T04:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/florida-s-foreclosure-rocket-docket-may-slow-to-a-crawl-with-fraud-claims.html
Home to more foreclosures than 47
U.S. states, Florida sought to clear out its backlog with a
system of special court hearings that dispensed with cases
quickly, sometimes in less than a minute.  Homeowners like Nicole West now threaten to slow that
system, Florida’s so-called rocket docket, to a crawl. West, who
has been fighting to save her Jensen Beach house from
foreclosure, has leveled a new allegation in her three-year
battle: the entire process is based on fraud.  West said her case is rife with the kind of flawed mortgage
documents that have caused lenders including  Bank of America
Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  to stop the process of
foreclosures and evictions across the country. The banks said
they are investigating homeowner charges like West’s that
signatures were forged and documents were backdated.  “It’s not right,” said West, 40, who lives about an
hour’s drive north of West Palm Beach. “It’s like lying to the
judge. It’s like lying about what’s really going on.”  The bank moratoriums are already thwarting the initiative
by Florida officials to clear jammed court dockets. Now, efforts
by homeowners such as West to bring claims of fraud to the
attention of judges are further prolonging evictions, and in
turn slowing purchases of foreclosed properties.  Third-Highest Rate  Florida has the third-highest foreclosure rate in the U.S.
behind Nevada and Arizona. One in every 34 housing units --
double the U.S. average -- was in the foreclosure process or
bank-owned as of Sept. 1, data vendor  RealtyTrac Inc.  said.  Florida’s legislature appropriated $9.6 million this year
to pay semi-retired judges and case managers to clear the
backlog of foreclosures. Some judges have been churning through
cases at a rapid clip, such as those last week in Tampa who
considered dozens of foreclosures per day, sometimes in as
little as 30 seconds.  The goal is to clear 62 percent of the backlog by next
July, according to  Craig Waters , a spokesman for the Florida
Supreme Court. J. Thomas McGrady, chief judge of Florida’s Sixth
Judicial Circuit, said he once thought that was achievable. Now
that Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America, New York-
based JPMorgan and Detroit-based  Ally Financial Inc.  have put
the brakes on foreclosures or evictions to look for
irregularities, he said he’s “very doubtful” his courts can
resolve that many cases. The circuit, which covers the area
around Clearwater and St. Petersburg, has a backlog of 33,000
foreclosure cases, he said.  More Backlog  “All of a sudden all of these issues pop up with the
lenders,” McGrady said in an interview at his Clearwater
office. “It’s going to slow down the whole process because
there will be more backlog. We’re still getting 1,000 cases a
month.”  At the Clearwater court, lenders as of yesterday had
canceled more than half of the 84 hearings to approve
foreclosures that were scheduled for today, according to Ron
Stuart, a court spokesman. Half of the 110 hearings originally
set to take place tomorrow were canceled as well.  Among the alleged defects the banks are examining are
lender affidavits signed by people, often described as “robo
signers,” who repeatedly failed to verify the accuracy of the
information in the documents.  In December, an employee at Ally’s GMAC Mortgage unit said
his team of 13 people signed about 10,000 documents a month
without verifying their accuracy, according to a deposition
taken in a foreclosure case filed in West Palm Beach.  False Affidavits  Ally has been accused of committing fraud by submitting
hundreds of false affidavits in foreclosure cases, according to
a lawsuit filed last week by Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray . Ally said in a statement that it “believes there was
nothing fraudulent or deceitful about its foreclosure
practices.”  “Every homeowner that’s in foreclosure now should be
questioning,” said Matthew Weidner, an attorney in St.
Petersburg who defends homeowners in foreclosure cases. “Every
homeowner that’s already been foreclosed and lost their home
should be questioning. Anybody who’s behind in their mortgage
should be questioning. This entire system is now a great big
question mark.”  Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum , meanwhile, is
investigating four law firms in the state that specialize in
foreclosure cases on behalf of lenders, according to  Ryan Wiggins , his spokeswoman. Yesterday, McCollum said he requested
meetings with firms including Bank of America, JPMorgan and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  unit Litton Loan Servicing to “discuss
ways to promptly and effectively redeem the integrity of the
foreclosure process.”  ‘Unfair and Deceptive’  McCollum accused law firms of “unfair and deceptive
actions” and said thousands of foreclosures that had been
approved by judges may have been the result of improper actions
by law firms. He said the firms appear to be “fabricating
and/or presenting false and misleading documents.”  Florida state Judge Janette Dunnigan in Bradenton fined a
Fort Lauderdale law firm, Smith, Hiatt & Diaz PA, $49,000 and
ruled it was in contempt of court after finding it was
repeatedly unprepared or failed to show up for foreclosure
hearings in her court.  The law firm operates “in utter disregard for the
consequences to other litigants,” the judge said in a Sept. 2
order. “Their disobedience of court orders is constant and
flagrant.”  Roy Diaz, a partner at the law firm, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  Under Investigation  Also under investigation by McCollum is Lender Processing
Services Inc. The Jacksonville-based company has produced
documents known as mortgage assignments with signatures of the
same person that vary “wildly” from document to document,
according to the attorney general. The documents are necessary
for banks and mortgage servicers to show they have the legal
right, or “standing,” to pursue foreclosure lawsuits. McCollum
is investigating whether the documents have been forged.  Michelle Kersch , a spokeswoman for Lender Processing, said
the company hadn’t been contacted by the attorney general and
would cooperate with any inquiries.  McGrady, the chief judge in Florida’s sixth circuit, said
his courts have seen “‘some very sloppy practice” by lawyers
for mortgage lenders.  “I’m disappointed that perhaps they’ve taken advantage of
a system that was set up to allow them to obtain their
foreclosures in a reasonably fair and expeditious process, and
they may have abused that,” he said.  Nine Million Mortgages  As many as 9 million U.S. mortgages that have been or are
being foreclosed may face challenges over the validity of legal
documents, according to a report yesterday by Morgan Stanley.  About 2.5 million homes have been repossessed since 2005
and another 6.5 million mortgages are in foreclosure or may be
soon, the New York-based firm wrote in a note.  At the George E. Edgecomb courthouse in Tampa, about a
half-hour drive from McGrady’s court, two senior judges hold
hearings four days a week on approving foreclosures. Last week,
one judge, Sandra Taylor, had 51 cases on her docket in one day.  Taylor considered the requests for foreclosure judgments in
a fifth-floor conference room. Sitting at a desk at the end of a
conference table, she used a speakerphone to talk to attorneys
for the banks and mortgage servicers who called in instead of
traveling to Tampa. At her side sat a court assistant, next to a
cart stacked with manila envelopes.  Don’t Show Up  Most homeowners whose property was at issue didn’t show up
to fight. It took Taylor about 30 seconds to approve some of the
foreclosures and set a sale date after lender attorneys
summarized the case and the amount owed.  “I wish there was more we can do,” Taylor told one
homeowner after approving a foreclosure. She said there was “no
legal reason” why she shouldn’t approve it.  Another homeowner who lost her home last week, Ingrid
Young, 44, defaulted in 2008. She told the judge she couldn’t
afford the $1,900 monthly payment for her Tampa house because
she only earns $1,800 a month.  “I am in default, and I do realize that,” Young said.  Her employer had cut her hours, and unless she finds
another job, she can’t afford the mortgage, she told Taylor.  The judge approved the foreclosure after persuading
attorneys for  Citigroup Inc.  unit Citimortgage to set the sale
date in January.  ‘Very Sad Business’  “It’s a very sad business,” the judge said afterwards.  Such fast-track hearings are still happening elsewhere in
Florida, according to lawyers and court personnel. Weidner, the
homeowner lawyer, criticized judges for continuing to hold
“rocket docket” sessions amid the current controversy.  “Inside these courtrooms, judges -- the bad ones -- are
just granting summary judgments like nothing’s happening, like
it’s business as usual,” he said. “They’re abdicating their
responsibilities to be real judges.”  Several Florida judges said their job is not to advocate
for homeowners or investigate the accuracy of documents. Courts
depend on homeowners or their attorneys to raise objections,
they said.  “We’re processing thousands of cases where no one is
really contesting them, and in those instances, something like
that just would not be brought to our attention,” said W.
Douglas Baird, a judge in Clearwater. “It’s not a situation
where the courts have the ability to go through every document
that’s filed and challenge and question those documents.”  Save Her Home  West, the Jensen Beach homeowner fighting to save her home,
has a Nov. 4 hearing in Stuart, Florida, where lender  Deutsche
Bank AG  may seek approval of a foreclosure, she said. Deutsche
Bank is the trustee representing holders of mortgage-backed
securities, according to court filings.  She and her husband, Tim, said they plan to seek a
postponement of the hearing to give them time to question two
individuals who signed relevant affidavits.  Four employees of Lender Processing Services signed
assignments transferring West’s mortgage, according to an
affidavit submitted on her behalf by Lynn Szymoniak, a West Palm
Beach attorney. They signed the documents as officers of
American Home Mortgage Servicing Inc. and Option One Mortgage
Corp. even though they were actually employed by Lender
Processing Services, according to Szymoniak’s affidavit.  Signed and Notarized  These assignments were signed and notarized more than a
year after Deutsche Bank filed the foreclosure suit. For that
reason, the Wests question whether the bank has the legal right
to file a lawsuit seeking foreclosure.  Scott Helfman , a
spokesman for Deutsche Bank, declined to comment.  They signed “thousands of documents each week as needed in
foreclosure cases, without any personal knowledge of the
documents, often without any authority from the entities they
claimed to be their employers and, in most cases, without ever
reading such documents,” Szymoniak claimed in court papers.  Kersch, Jacksonville-based  Lender Processing’s  spokeswoman,
said in a statement that its subsidiary, Docx, executed the
documents and that “it had proper authority and review
processes in place.”  West and her husband said they received a foreclosure
notice in March 2007 after Option One Mortgage Corp. allegedly
refused their payments. Deutsche Bank claims the Wests owe a
total of $541,925.02 in principal, fees and interest, according
to court papers. The home is worth about $200,000, she said.  Fixed-Rate Mortgage  In 2005, the couple tried to refinance by getting a fixed-
rate mortgage to replace an adjustable-rate one. According to
West, Option One said it was willing to provide a fixed-rate
loan. When the couple went to sign the paperwork, West alleged
that Option One, which is now part of American Home Mortgage,
changed the terms of the loan to an interest-only mortgage for
five years. West claimed she was subsequently threatened with a
lawsuit by an unidentified title insurance company employee if
she didn’t accept that deal.  West said she was “scared to death” and agreed to take
the new loan. Their monthly payment went from $1,900 to $3,100,
she said. They kept up with it for about two years until Tim
West lost his job in January 2007, she said. Option One promised
a loan modification the next month and wouldn’t accept their
mortgage payments, West said. In March of that year, West said
she received a foreclosure notice from Deutsche Bank.  Philippa Brown, a spokeswoman for American Home, declined
to comment.  West said she hopes to persuade state Judge Elizabeth
Metzger at her hearing next month to block the foreclosure
because it’s based on fraud. She said she’s willing to negotiate
a modified mortgage that she can afford as a compromise.
Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank  and Option have never tried to
negotiate, she said.  “I think a judge who’s truly interested in justice will
not tolerate anybody trying to pull the wool over their eyes,”
West said. “She’s my last hope that something can be done to
save my home.”  This case is Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. v. West, 07-
00311, Florida Circuit Court of the 13th Judicial District in and
for Martin County (Stuart).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in Tampa, Florida,
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 