-- Forint, World's Best Performer, Gains as Orban Outlines Deficit Measures
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2010-10-13T16:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/forint-gains-before-orban-details-hungarian-fiscal-measures.html
The Hungarian currency extended the
world’s biggest rally in the past five weeks after Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  revealed some steps the government will
take to cut its budget deficit.  The forint appreciated as much as 0.8 percent against the
euro and traded 0.7 percent stronger at 272.36 per euro as of
6:05 p.m. in Budapest. The currency has gained 5.3 percent since
Sept. 8, when Hungary committed to a 2011 budget deficit of less
than 3 percent of gross domestic product, making it the best
performer among more than 150 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Hungary will impose new taxes on telecommunications
operators, energy companies and retail chains to help meet the
deficit target, Orban said today.  “All still a bit nebulous, so we have to wait for Monday,
when the details are to be presented to parliament,”  Simon Quijano-Evans , head of emerging-market strategy Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux in Vienna, wrote in an e-mail. “At least the cat is
finally out of the bag and the fixed-income market should be
relatively happy.”  Forint-denominated notes maturing in February 2013 gained
today, pushing the yield down 5 basis points to 6.142 percent,
near a five-month low. Bond yields move inversely to prices.  Stocks rallied worldwide as the Federal Reserve signaled it
was willing to pump more money into the economy and Chinese
exports surged, boosting confidence in the global recovery.
Hungary’s  BUX  index jumped 1 percent to its highest close in
five months.  Magyar Telekom Nyrt.  fell 2.9 percent to a five-
month low of 631 forint after Orban announced the new tax.  Orban “is refusing to take any expenditure-side austerity
measures and is instead undergoing revenue-side contortions,”
 Peter Attard Montalto , a London-based Nomura International Plc.
economist, said in an e-mail. “This will likely allow them to
meet the deficit targets. This is not credible fiscal policy, it
is anti-growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  