-- Ecclestone to Sign Deal for Russian Grand Prix to Start in 2014
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-10-14T12:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/formula-one-to-sign-agreement-for-russian-grand-prix-to-start-in-2014.html
Formula One chief  Bernie Ecclestone 
signed an agreement today for Russia to host a Grand Prix from
2014 to 2020 after talks with Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  and
Russian business leaders.  “I’m very happy not only to have Formula One in Russia,
but now in Sochi I’m delighted to see all the facilities you’ve
built for the Olympics,” Ecclestone told Putin in the Black Sea
resort today. “I sincerely hope that Formula One is going to
play a big part in what I can see happening in Sochi.”  Putin said the agreement is “very important, because we
need to make use of everything that we’re creating” for the
2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. “Construction of the racetrack
will give our athletes a training facility and attract the
attention of young people.”  Sponsors of the Sochi Grand Prix will include OAO Lukoil,
Russia’s largest non-state oil producer, billionaire  Oleg Deripaska ’s Basic Element, OAO MegaFon, Russia’s third-largest
cellular company, and Russian Technologies Corp., a state
holding with assets from weapons to cars.  Ecclestone said in April that he aimed to bring the motor-
racing series to Russia by 2012. Formula One currently has 19
races, with more countries vying for a spot on the series.
Staging a Grand Prix puts race hosts “on the map,” Ecclestone
said in a Bloomberg TV interview in March.  Russian Driver  Putin is trying to polish Russia’s image and boost its
prestige abroad by attracting major sporting events such as the
Olympics and Formula One. He has also spearheaded a bid to host
the 2018 soccer World Cup.  Putin agreed to sponsor Formula One’s first Russian driver,
 Vitaly Petrov , who drives for the Renault team. In a March 1
meeting with Renault SA Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn ,
Putin said the French carmaker’s “ symbolic step ” in hiring a
Russian driver would stimulate its cooperation with Russian
companies.  Renault owns a 25 percent stake in OAO AvtoVAZ, Russia’s
largest carmaker.  Christian Esteve , then head of Renault’s
Avtoframos factory in Moscow, said on Aug. 25 that Russia is a
priority market for the carmaker. Renault, Nissan and AvtoVAZ
plan to control 40 percent of the Russian market by 2015, he
said.  Ecclestone told  Kommersant  last week that Russia will pay a
yearly fee of about $40 million for the right to hold a Grand
Prix race. Building a racetrack may cost Russia as much as $200
million, the Moscow-based newspaper said.  Construction of facilities for the 2014 Olympics should
cost 185 billion rubles ($6.1 billion), according to Deputy
Prime Minister  Dmitry Kozak ’s office. Forty percent of
construction for the games will be completed on schedule this
year, RIA Novosti reported yesterday, citing  Taimuraz Bolloyev ,
head of  Olimpstroi , the state corporation in charge of
preparations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Sochi at  iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  