-- Lawyer Among Four Charged With Murder of Malaysian Cosmetics Millionaire
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2010-10-13T08:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/four-charged-with-murders-of-malaysian-cosmetics-millionaire-associates.html
Malaysian authorities charged a
lawyer and three other people with the murders of missing
cosmetics millionaire Sosilawati Lawiya and three associates,
according to a lawyer for one of the defendants.  Lawyer N. Pathmanabhan, 41, and three others were charged
today in a magistrate’s court in Banting, Selangor, with the
murders of 47-year-old Sosilawati and three others, Ravi Nekoo,
Pathmanabhan’s lawyer, said by telephone. The defendants didn’t
enter a plea as this was a preliminary stage, he said.  “We have to wait for the prosecution to inform the
magistrate’s court whether all the documents are ready, and if
all the documents are ready the matter will then be transferred
to the High Court,” said Nekoo. The defendants would decide
their next course of action once the case is transferred to the
High Court, he said, adding a hearing is scheduled for Dec. 16.  Sosilawati, her attorney, her driver, and a bank officer
disappeared Aug. 30 after telling family and friends that they
were going to Banting to discuss a land deal, the New Straits
Times reported on Sept. 13. Their bodies were burnt and their
ashes thrown into a river near a poultry farm, the Times
reported without saying where it got the information.  Police found some remains and were conducting DNA tests to
identify them, Criminal Investigation Department Chief  Bakri Zinin  said in a Sept. 14 phone interview.  Sosilawati, founder of the cosmetics retailer Nouvelle
Beauty Centre Sdn., began by selling cosmetic products door-to-
door before starting her own business brand in 1994. The company
had grown in 10 years to 300 stores in Malaysia, Brunei,
Singapore and Thailand, the Times reported.  She had six children from her first marriage to a bank
manager and was also once married to singer Nashrudin Elias of
the rock band Lefthanded, according to the report.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Manirajan Ramasamy  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
 Ranjeetha Pakiam  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong in Hong Kong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net . 