-- France Resists German-Led Bid for `Automatic' Euro Sanctions
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2010-10-13T12:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/france-resists-german-led-bid-for-automatic-euro-sanctions.html
France is balking at calls for the
faster imposition of sanctions on deficit-ridden governments,
putting it at odds with Germany and the European Central Bank
over how to prevent a repeat of the debt crisis.  In a replay of debates over European economic management in
the 1990s, France insisted on leaving sanctions in the hands of
elected national officials, while Germany and the ECB want to
make them virtually automatic, said four people with knowledge
of discussions yesterday among officials in Brussels.  The French-German impasse sets up a confrontation when EU
finance ministers consider  European Commission  proposals to fix
budget management at an Oct. 18 meeting in Luxembourg. The
gathering comes as the euro gains and bond yields in Greece and
Spain slip from highs reached during the debt turmoil, lessening
the pressure to overhaul the economy’s governing system.  “The French have not understood what time it is,” said
 Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group NV in Brussels. “The
last 10 years have shown that if you really put it all in the
hands of the politicians, it’s not going to work. There’s too
much horse trading.”  No country has been fined in the euro’s almost 12-year
history for overstepping the deficit limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product.  Greece , the trigger of this year’s debt shock,
went the whole period with a deficit over the threshold.  The euro has rallied after reaching a four-year low of
$1.1876 on June 7. It traded at $1.3982 at 12:35 p.m. Brussels
time. The euro is 19 percent overvalued, a Bloomberg index of
the relative buying power of world currencies shows.  Buffett’s ‘Test’  The currency, shared by 16 nations, faces “a real
challenge,” billionaire  Warren Buffett  said yesterday in
remarks recorded for a conference in Israel. “This is a test,
and I would say the test has not yet been passed. I’d rather
watch it from afar than nearby.”  “Quasi-automatic” sanctions are at the heart of the EU
economic-management proposals. They would require high-deficit
countries to marshal a majority of euro-area allies to head off
financial penalties.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  endorsed that policy,
telling the Economic Club of New York yesterday that “we need
quasi-automaticity in the application of sanctions, based on
clearly defined criteria and with less discretion over
outcomes.”  Fines would go as high as 0.2 percent of GDP for flouting
fiscal targets and 0.1 percent of GDP for running “excessive”
macroeconomic imbalances such as outsized current account
deficits, under proposals that require EU government approval.  ‘Political Powers’  France, with Italy’s backing, wants to stick with the
current system of putting any sanctions to a vote among euro-
area governments. French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said
Sept. 27 that “political powers must remain in the game.” A
German position paper the same day called for the “application
of sanctions on a quasi-automatic basis.”  Stiffer sanctions aren’t the best solution because would
spark resistance to EU authorities at national level, said
 Alessandro Leipold , a former International Monetary Fund
official.  “There is a problem with the heavy emphasis on
sanctions,” said Leipold, who advises the Brussels-based  Lisbon
Council  research institute. “If you’re relying solely on
Brussels-imposed sanctions, at the end of the day you’re really
tearing at the fabric of EU solidarity and feeding into the
euroskeptics.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Deen  in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  