-- French Strike Extended as Sarkozy, Unions See No Common Ground
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-10-13T22:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/french-strike-is-extended-as-sarkozy-labor-unions-find-no-common-ground.html
French unions have called for public
transport workers to strike for a third day today to pressure
the government to drop plans to increase the retirement age,
even as fewer employees stayed away from work yesterday.  Total SA , Europe’s biggest refiner, started to halt
operations at all its French plants following the strike,
increasing the likelihood of fuel shortages. With the government
of President  Nicolas Sarkozy  maintaining that it won’t back down
on plans to raise the minimum retirement age to 62 from 60, the
stalemate looked set to continue.  “He has not budged from his position,”  Bernard Thibault , who heads the Confederation Generale du Travail labor
union, said yesterday on Canal Plus television channel. “His
point of departure in ‘no negotiations.’ We will continue.”  The government says the changes are needed to help France
cope with an aging population and help balance the pension
system’s budget by 2018. The pensions’ system reform is part of
the broader government’s struggle to cut down the budget
deficit. This year the gap will stand at 7.7 percent and
Sarkozy’s minister plan to cut it down to 92 billion euros ($125
billion), or 6 percent of gross domestic product, next year.  “However difficult it may be to implement this reform, the
government and parliament will press ahead with it in the
general interest calmly and determinedly,” Sarkozy told
ministers at the weekly cabinet meeting in Paris yesterday,
according to government spokesman  Luc Chatel .  The reform bill has been approved by the lower house of
parliament, the  National Assembly , while the Senate is debating
the measure and has approved some key planks, such as raising
the minimum age for a pension to 62 and the age for a full
pension to 67 from 65.  More Disruptions  The national railroad company SNCF is expecting four out of
10 high-speed intercity trains today, up from one out of three
yesterday. Traffic on the Thalys trains to Brussels will be
running at 90 percent, up from 80 percent.  Eurostar service to London isn’t affected. The SNCF said
the percentage of striking workers fell to 25 percent yesterday
from 40 percent the day before.  On the Paris metro, three unions, the CGT, Force Ouvriere,
and SUD, have voted to continue striking today, with the CFDT
voting to return to work. Traffic yesterday was normal on half
the lines with more than two out of three trains on the
remaining lines. The metro said on its website that traffic
should be “normal or near normal” today.  Air traffic controllers held a one-day strike on Oct. 12,
and air travel returned to normal yesterday.  Demonstrations Planned  Across France, 1.23 million people marched in protests on
Oct. 12, police said, up from 997,000 during the previous
demonstrations on Oct. 2. The CFDT union said 3.5 million people
marched, up from 2.9 million. The protest was the fourth against
the proposed pension changes in five weeks. Unions plan more
demonstrations Oct. 16.  Union leaders have opposed calling for a general unlimited
strike, instead allowing workers to decide branch by branch
whether to continue striking. Unions have said the changes made
to the pension bill so far by the government are insufficient.  The government says it will allow people in hardship jobs
who started working as teenagers, as well as women who had three
children, to continue retiring early.  “The sense of responsibility, the sense of duty, is what
led the government to propose, as has been done in all other
countries, to lengthen working careers to finance the retirement
system,” Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  said during debate in
parliament yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  