-- Gabelli Wouldn't Own Apple Even Though Gamco Does: Tom Keene
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-10-13T20:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/gabelli-says-he-wouldn-t-own-apple-even-as-gamco-holds-ipad-maker-s-shares.html
Mario Gabelli  said he wouldn’t own
shares of  Apple Inc. , which rose above $300 for the first time
today, even as one of his Gamco Investors Inc. fund holds the
maker of iPhones and iPads.  “It’s like asking me to operate on your arm when I’m a
knee specialist,” Gabelli, 68, who helps oversee $26 billion as
chairman and chief executive officer at Gamco in Rye, New York,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today on “Surveillance
Midday” with  Tom Keene .  The chairman and chief executive officer of Gamco considers
himself a value investor who buys companies trading for low
prices compared with their earnings prospects.  Howard Ward ’s
Gamco Growth Fund, which instead focuses on stocks with the
fastest profit increases, held 93,000 shares as of June 30.  Since introducing the iPhone in January 2007,  Apple’s stock 
has more than tripled. Earlier this year, Cupertino, California-
based Apple introduced the iPad tablet computer, which is
already outselling the nine-year-old iPod. The stock has risen
42 percent this year.  Apple more than doubled since June 1, 2009, when News Corp.
picked  Cisco Systems Inc. , the world’s biggest maker of
computer-networking equipment, to join the Dow Jones Industrial
Average. Had Apple been selected to instead accompany Hewlett-
Packard Co., Intel Corp., International Business Machines Corp.
and Microsoft Corp. as the technology companies in the index, it
would have exceeded its April high last week, according to data
compiled by Bespoke Investment Group LLC.  The Dow rallied to a 19-month high of 11,205.03 on April
26. It closed today at 11,096.08.  ‘Better Fit’  “While the ultimate reason to add each stock is only known
by the people who make the decision, there were some who argued
at the time that adding Apple would have a better fit,
especially because it had a larger market cap than Cisco,”
Bespoke analysts wrote in a note to clients today.  Apple briefly overtook Beijing-based PetroChina Co. last
month to become the second-biggest company in the world, behind
only Exxon Mobil Corp. of Irving, Texas. Apple is valued at
$274.2 billion as of 4 p.m. in New York, compared with San Jose,
California-based Cisco at $129.5 billion. Cisco has rallied 25
percent since it was picked to join the Dow.  The Dow average fell as much as 14 percent since reaching
this year’s high on April 26 on concern that U.S. unemployment
and widening budget deficits in Europe would derail global
growth. Since July, the Dow has rallied on expectations the
Federal Reserve will buy bonds to stimulate the economy.  Near Bankruptcy  In May, Apple overtook Microsoft as the most valuable
technology company in the world. The company was on the verge of
bankruptcy when CEO  Steve Jobs  resumed leadership in 1997. Apple
expanded beyond its Macintosh line of personal computers with
the iPod in 2001, iPhone in 2007 and iPad this year.  Gabelli said today that he likes  Deere & Co. , Fortune
Brands Inc., Cablevision Systems Corp. and Grupo Televisa SA.
brands.  “If you drink it, we follow it,” Gabelli said today of
Deerfield, Illinois-based Fortune Brands, saying it’s a good bet
for investors with a five-year time horizon. “Bourbon is an
interesting product that the United States makes.”  Fortune , the maker of Moen faucets and Jim Beam bourbon,
rose the most in a decade last week after  William Ackman ’s
Pershing Square Capital Management LP said it took an 11 percent
stake in the company.  Gabelli is also known for buying stocks he thinks will
become takeover targets, as well as writing his 1988 “Magna
Carta of Shareholder Rights.”  He said that if he were in charge of  Google Inc. , he’d buy
Time Warner Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 