-- Gap Investors Await Murphy Plan to Lift Sales at Namesake Brand
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-10-13T20:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/gap-investors-await-murphy-plan-to-lift-sales-at-namesake-brand.html
Gap Inc.  Chief Executive Officer
 Glenn Murphy  has spent three years cutting costs and boosting
profits. During that time the stock has barely budged.  Sales at Gap’s namesake brand fell in each of the past six
months as the retailer failed to differentiate itself from such
rivals as  Hennes & Mauritz AB , Forever 21 Inc. and  J. Crew Group
Inc. , said  Zoe Tan , an analyst for Morningstar Inc. in Chicago,
who rates Gap as fairly valued.  “Something I get in a Gap, I can get elsewhere,” she
said. The San Francisco-based retailer operates more than 3,000
stores.  Murphy will get a chance to defend his strategy when he
speaks at an investor day in New York tomorrow. His appearance
follows a 10-day stretch during which the company reported a
drop in monthly same-store sales -- even as retailers as a group
grew -- and unveiled a new Gap logo only to scrap it for the old
one after shoppers complained.  “Some people on Facebook didn’t like it and now a big,
giant apparel company is going back to something that is all
about the ‘Beverly Hills, 90210’ era, instead of something
new,” said  Brian Sozzi , an analyst for Wall Street Strategies
Inc. in New York, who recommends selling Gap shares. “I want to
hear some confidence from Glenn on the Gap design team.”  Gap, which also operates the Banana Republic and Old Navy
chains, rose 28 cents to $18.99 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have fallen 9.4 percent
this year, compared with a 23 percent rise for the Standard &
Poor’s  Retail Select Industry Index . Gap traded at $17.61 on
July 30, 2007, when Murphy started at the company.  Gap Brand Evolving  “Glenn and the company’s management team have been focused
on gaining market share in North America,” said  Bill Chandler ,
a spokesman for Gap. The Gap brand is evolving to a more modern
look to go after younger shoppers and will unveil images from
its holiday advertising tomorrow to reflect that, he said.  Murphy has boosted operating margins by closing stores and
shrinking others. He revamped management, cutting 50 vice
president positions, and moved sourcing to countries such as
Vietnam, where labor is cheaper. The retailer is now remodeling
stores to make them easier to shop and ramping up marketing for
specific products, like black pants at Gap.  ‘Slippery Slope’  Gap has been the company laggard, and in March, Murphy
described it as “the longest slippery slope of all our
brands.”  Revenue at stores open at least a year increased 4 percent
in the first quarter as the Old Navy chain attracted shoppers
seeking cheaper options and the Gap brand’s 1969 jeans gained
more traction. Net income rose 40 percent to $302 million, a
third straight gain.  So-called same-store sales, a key indicator for retailers
because they exclude results from new and closed locations,
gained for a second straight quarter after declining every
quarter since 2004.  Revenue from sales of Gap stores in North America, largest
of the company’s three chains, also advanced 2 percent in the
three-month period. Investors liked what they saw, and the stock
surged to a 9-year high of $26.34 on April 26.  Investors’ enthusiasm dissipated when the retailer’s
overall same-store sales dropped in April after six straight
months of gains. The Gap brand then posted five more months of
sales declines through September.  ‘Disappointing’ Results  “Earlier this year when things started to look better,
many became excited about it,” said Tan. “But recent results
have been disappointing. It has taken longer than expected.”  Murphy echoed that sentiment in a call with analysts after
the second quarter in August when he said he was disappointed in
sales and had spent weeks meeting with brand presidents
discussing how to make the stores stand out from their rivals.
Murphy also said the Gap brand didn’t have the tops to pair with
its 1969 jeans, which sold well when they were released last
year, and black pants, unveiled this summer.  “Pants fit in Gap’s wheelhouse because pants are focused
on fit,” said  Ed Yruma , an analyst for KeyBanc Capital Markets
in New York, who recommends buying Gap shares. “Fit requires
R&D time and that’s what Gap does well. What they don’t do as
well is the fashion, and that’s their tops business.”  September’s performance raised doubts about when Gap stores
would show steady gains and adds pressure to boost sales during
the holiday shopping season, Yruma said. He upgraded Gap to a
“buy” last year after the release of the 1969 jeans with the
expectation that more traffic-drawing clothes would come.  “This is a very powerful earnings story when they get the
top-line working,” Yruma said. “We thought they were close.
It’s clear we were a little early, or wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  