-- Gasoline Rebound in U.S. Fans Europe's September Exports: Energy Markets
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2010-10-14T21:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/gasoline-rebound-in-u-s-fans-europe-s-september-exports-energy-markets.html
Bookings of tankers to ship European
gasoline across the Atlantic increased in September as the
 profit margin from the trade  rebounded from the least in a year
and U.S. supplies fell to a three-month low.  Traders and oil companies chartered at least 29 vessels to
transport the auto fuel to the Atlantic Coast last month, up
from 23 in August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
 Clarkson  Research Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s biggest
shipbroker. The ships carried 1.12 million metric tons, compared
with 971,000 tons in August.  “A lot of U.S. refineries are in maintenance, so gasoline
needs have to be met by imports rather than domestic
production,” said  Amrita Sen , an oil analyst at Barclays
Capital in London.  The premium, or arbitrage margin, on U.S. gasoline relative
to Europe averaged 3.4 cents a gallon in the last week of
September. It was minus 7 cents on Sept. 16, the lowest level
since Sept. 1, 2009.  Gasoline prices have advanced since the end of September as
at least 10 refineries in Europe were forced to reduce output
amid a port workers’ strike at oil terminals in southern France.
As few as three ships were hired to transport the fuel to the
U.S. from Europe in the first week of October.  Backwardation  Price gains in Europe outpaced the U.S. as companies
including Paris-based Total SA lost 800,000 barrels a day in
fuel production, according to the International Energy Agency.
 European 95-octane  gasoline in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp
traded at $791 a ton, or $2.22 cents a gallon, today, up 12
percent this month, Bloomberg data showed. Futures on the New
York Mercantile Exchange fell 1.4 percent to settle at $2.1365 a
gallon.  Reduced European output sent the U.S. futures market into
so-called backwardation on Oct. 4, meaning contracts for nearby
delivery traded higher than shipments in subsequent months, a
typical signal that supplies are squeezed.  Inventories fell 0.8 percent in the week ended Oct. 8 to
218.2 million barrels, the lowest level since the week ended
June 25, the Energy Department reported in Washington today.  Refinery maintenance, increased demand and the French
strike “have put the gasoline forward curve into backwardation
and opened the trans-Atlantic arbitrage,” said  Filip Petersson ,
Stockholm-based commodities strategist at SEB AB. “We should
clearly see more shipments from Europe to the U.S.”  Autumn Repairs  Refiners in the U.S. and Europe usually carry out repairs
in the spring, ahead of the peak motoring season, and autumn,
before falling temperatures stoke demand for heating oil. U.S.
producers operated at  81.9 percent of capacity  in the week ended
Oct. 8, the lowest level since the seven days through March 19,
government data showed.  The  average pump price  for regular gasoline rose to $2.76 a
gallon in the U.S. in the week ended Oct. 8, the highest level
in eight weeks and up 13 percent from a year earlier,  MasterCard
Inc.  said on Oct. 12 in its SpendingPulse report.  The profit in Europe from turning crude into gasoline, the
so-called  crack spread , widened to $5.05 a barrel on Oct. 11,
the most since Aug. 31 and double the $2.25 on Oct. 1, according
to PVM Oil Associates Ltd., an independent broker that handles
more than 100 million barrels of oil derivatives a day.  Gasoline inventories in independent storage fell  3.3
percent to 889,000 tons  in the week through Oct. 7 in Amsterdam-
Rotterdam-Antwerp, Europe’s oil-trading hub, according to PJK
International BV, an Oosterhout, Netherlands-based petroleum-
industry researcher.  Six Tankers  Statoil ASA , Norway’s largest oil and gas company, booked
at least six tankers to move 245,000 tons in September, Clarkson
data showed. The Stavanger-based company hired two ships in
August.  The Gotland Marieann loaded Sept. 30 in the U.K. and was
scheduled to reach New York on Oct. 16, according to AISLive
vessel-tracking data on Bloomberg. The Energy Puma left Norway
Sept. 21 and arrived Oct. 9, the data showed.  The fixtures from London-based Clarkson were drawn from
single-voyage bookings. Long-term charters weren’t included.  The cost of shipping gasoline from Europe to the U.S.
Atlantic coast was unchanged at  Worldscale 137.73  today, or
about  $5,198 a day  after fuel costs are taken into account,
according to the London-based Baltic Exchange.  Worldscale  points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 routes. Flat rates for every
voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually by
the Worldscale Association in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net ;
 Moming Zhou  in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  