-- Gategroup Weighs Takeover of Asian Catering Companies, CEO Says
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-10-13T09:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/gategroup-targets-cathay-jal-catering-units-to-fight-galactic-lufthansa.html
Gategroup Holding AG , the world’s
second-largest in-flight caterer, is interested in acquiring the
food units of carriers including  Japan Airlines Corp.  and Cathay
Pacific Airways Ltd., its chief executive officer said.  Gategroup will use a 200 million-Swiss franc ($209 million)
capital increase to fund bids for airline kitchens in Asia and
the Middle East, where as much as 90 percent of catering is in-
house, compared with about 50 percent in Europe, CEO  Guy Dubois 
said in an interview in London.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  is the biggest airline caterer, with
a 30 percent share of the $12 billion global market, compared
with 25 percent at Zurich-based Gategroup. The Swiss company,
whose business-jet menus were devised by three-star Michelin
chef  Philippe Rochat , aims to boost sales by adding non-food
items from forks and wine glasses to blankets and slippers.  “It’s a logical step that the suppliers will consolidate
and grow together with the airlines, and Gategroup plans to be a
player in this game,” Dubois said. “It’s a large market, with
the biggest opportunities in the Asia-Pacific. And we have one
global, ‘galactic’ competitor in Lufthansa.”  Gategroup gained as much as 1.5 francs, or 3.7 percent, to
41.95 francs, the  steepest increase  in two weeks. The stock
traded 2.6 percent higher at 41.50 francs at 11:44 a.m. in
Zurich, boosting its gains in the past 12 months to 42 percent
and valuing the company at 841 million francs.  JAL, Qantas  JAL and All Nippon Airways Co. of Japan, Hong Kong-based
Cathay and Australia’s  Qantas Airways Ltd.  -- whose Q Catering
unit is the southern hemisphere’s largest airline meal provider
-- are among carriers that may favor selling food operations to
cut costs and take non-cash generative assets off their balance
sheets, Dubois said. JAL plans to sell its TFK catering unit as
part of a turnaround plan, Jiji Press reported last month.  JAL is reviewing units for possible sale or closure, said
 Sze Hunn Yap , a spokeswoman. She declined to comment
specifically on catering operations.  Qantas’ catering is an integral part of its business, said
 Olivia Wirth , a spokeswoman. Cathay Pacific has “no intention
of disposing of our interest in Cathay Pacific Catering Services
which is a strategic component of our aviation business,” it
said in an e-mail to Bloomberg.  Takeover Target?  “These airlines still have their own kitchens and I expect
that over time many of them will outsource,” Dubois said.
Gategroup may also pursue opportunities in Singapore, where
Singapore Airlines Ltd. spun off its  Singapore Airport Terminal
Services Ltd.  catering and ground-handling unit last year, the
CEO said.  Gategroup makes about 70 percent of its sales from catering
with the remainder coming from units such as Gate Aviation,
which offers services from aircraft cleaning to providing
onboard toiletry kits, headsets and packing trolley bars.  Gategroup may itself become a takeover target, said  Jon Cox , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets SA in Zurich with a
“buy” rating.  “With consolidation going on in the market Gategroup could
themselves become a target,” Cox said. “It’s certainly
affordable if you are a big institution.”  Gategroup has 130 kitchens worldwide, lagging behind the
200 at Lufthansa’s LSG Sky Chefs but almost double the 69 at Air
France-KLM Group’s Servair unit, the third-largest in-flight
caterer with a 9 percent market share, according to its website.  Easyjet, United Airlines  “If you’re an airline your core competency is moving
people from ‘A’ to ‘B.’ You don’t need to run a restaurant,”
Cox said.  British Airways Plc is among the top clients of Gategroup,
which meets the carrier’s catering needs out of London Heathrow,
the busiest airport in Europe and the No. 2 worldwide, after
buying its kitchens operation in 1997 for 65 million pounds
($103 million).  Other major Gategroup customers include  EasyJet Plc  and
United Airlines, which it supplies at the main Chicago hub.  Gategroup’s  most recent purchase  was Cara Airline Solutions
of Canada, which it agreed to buy on Sept. 15. Cara runs 10
kitchens serving 55 airlines.  Lufthansa’s LSG Sky Chefs unit assesses opportunities in
“high potential” markets on a case-by-case basis, spokeswoman
Josefine Corsten said in an interview, adding that high catering
standards in the Asia-Pacific pose a particular challenge.  Delta, Virgin  “Service levels in Asia are significantly higher than
anywhere else in the world,” she said. “It’s a cultural thing.
Asian food culture has always been higher, people place a higher
value on having a good meal on board.”  LSG Sky Chefs is an important part of the Lufthansa group
because of its role in stabilizing earnings across economic
cycles, spokesman  Andreas Bartels  said yesterday. The unit
counts  Delta Air Lines Inc. , Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. and
American Airlines, of which the Sky Chefs brand was once part,
among its biggest customers, as well as Lufthansa itself.  Gategroup was founded as the Gate Gourmet unit of Swissair
in 1992, when it ranked as the eighth-biggest airline caterer,
and doubled in size in 1999 with the $780 million acquisition of
Memphis-based Dobbs International Services, the U.S. No. 1.  The business was purchased by U.S. buyout firm Texas
Pacific Group in 2002 when Swissair went bankrupt. It was sold
to a group of investors in 2007 and listed on Switzerland’s main
stock exchange in May 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  