-- Geithner Signals China Causing Global Currency Interventions
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2010-10-13T04:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/geithner-signals-china-forcing-other-emerging-market-nations-to-intervene.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  blamed China’s policy of limiting gains in the yuan for
contributing to a round of capital controls and currency-market
interventions by emerging economies.  “What’s happening is, as China holds its currency down,
their currencies are moving up and they’re having to work very
hard to make sure they’re not at an unfair disadvantage with
China,” Geithner said in an interview with “Charlie Rose”
scheduled to air on PBS yesterday and Bloomberg Television today.  Countries from Brazil to South Korea and Thailand have sold
their currencies in recent weeks to curb gains that threaten to
impede export growth and slow their economies. South Korea,
Taiwan, Brazil, Colombia and Russia are tightening rules on
capital flows to limit swings in their currencies.  “This issue, which people like to frame as uniquely an
American preoccupation, is really much more important to the
rest of the world and is really a global problem as a whole,”
the Treasury chief said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government has limited the yuan’s
advance to less than 3 percent since abandoning a two-year peg
against the dollar in June. By comparison, Thailand’s baht has
climbed 15 percent in the past two years, Malaysia’s ringgit is
up 13 percent, Brazil’s real has surged 28 percent and South
Africa’s rand has appreciated 34 percent versus the dollar.  Non-deliverable yuan forwards traded at 6.4493 per dollar
in Hong Kong as of 11:39 a.m. today, suggesting a gain of a
about 3.3 percent in the next 12 months.  China’s Surplus  U.S. lawmakers have led criticism that China’s policy
provides an unfair trade advantage for its goods on the global
market. China, the world’s largest exporter, today reported a
$16.9 billion September trade surplus, capping the biggest
quarterly excess of exports over imports since 2008.  While China’s currency is “substantially undervalued,”
Geithner said there’s no risk of a global “currency war.” He
said China has let its currency rise at a “pretty significant
rate” in the past six weeks and will probably allow it to
appreciate more over a longer period of time.  “This is going to be a gradual process, and what matters
to us is that they continue to let their currency rise to
reflect those market forces,” he said. “ China takes a long
view of these things.”  Thai Restrictions  Thailand yesterday decided to remove a tax exemption for
foreigners on income from domestic bonds, a move “in the right
direction,” Central Bank Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said.  “This problem is a global problem that happens in many
countries, and what we are trying to do now is reduce the impact
as much as we can,” Prasarn told reporters in Bangkok late
yesterday. “We also try to manage the foreign-exchange rate
under a managed float system and make it efficient to help
reduce the impact on businesses.”  Prasarn said the central bank is studying measures adopted
by other countries to control capital flows.  Earlier this month, Brazil doubled its foreign inflow tax
on fixed-income investments to 4 percent, as the government
tried to temper a four-month rally in the real.  In June, South Korea unveiled tighter rules on currency
derivatives to reduce volatility in capital flows and trading of
the won.  As talks among officials from the Group of 20 nations began
in Washington last week, Geithner warned of a “damaging
dynamic” of competitive currency weakening that could limit
global growth and said “more and more countries face stronger
pressure to lean against the market forces pushing up the value
of their currencies.”  In yesterday’s comments, he signaled that China needs to
have some “independence” to set policy that makes sense for
the country’s economy.  “If they keep the currency really low and undervalued,
it’s really working against that basic objective of development.
So, they’ve got a long view,” he said. “I’m very confident
over time that this is going to happen. We just want to make
sure it’s happening at a gradual but still significant rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  