-- Ghana's Inflation Rate Little Changed at 9.4 Percent as Pressures Mount
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 2010-10-13T13:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/ghana-s-inflation-rate-little-changed-at-9-4-percent-as-pressures-mount.html
Ghana’s  inflation rate was little
changed in September, after more than halving in the previous 14
months, following increases in state-regulated prices and wages
for government employees.  Inflation was 9.38 percent, compared with 9.44 percent in
August, Grace Bediako, an official at the Ghana Statistical
Service, told reporters at in the capital, Accra, today. In the
month, prices declined by 1.5 percent, she said.  “We should see upward pressure becoming stronger from
November,” Bediako said.  Ghana has raised state-regulated tariffs for water and
electricity in the past three months and introduced a new pay
structure for public-sector workers. The policy raised this
year’s wage bill to $4.4 billion from the $3.1 billion
previously estimated, according to the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning, fueling consumer demand.  Food prices rose 5.7 percent in September, compared with
5.3 percent the month before, while the growth in non-food costs
slowed to 11.8 percent from 12.3 percent.  The driving forces behind inflation are “public-sector
wage pressures, the second round effects of utility tariff hikes
and rebounding consumer confidence,”  Lisa Lewin , head of sub-
Saharan Africa Analysis at Business Monitor International, said
in an e-mailed comment yesterday. “I am expecting a return to
the double digits.”  Rate Cuts  The inflation rate has fallen from a five-year high of 20.7
percent in June last year after Ghana’s cedi halted its decline
against the dollar. The cedi, which fell 15 percent against the
U.S. currency in the first half of 2009, is little changed over
the past 12 months.  The decline in the inflation rate enabled the central bank
to cut its key interest rate by 5 percentage points between
November last year and July. The bank maintained the rate at
13.5 percent in September, citing inflationary risks stemming
from increased government spending.  “I expect the Bank of Ghana to hold interest rates when it
meets in November, especially if inflation trends up into double
digits in the interim,” Lewin said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 