-- Global-Tech, Chimei-Thomson, Celgene, RIM, Darden: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2010-10-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/global-tech-chimei-rim-darden-intellectual-property.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  will referee
a dispute between household appliance makers over a patent on a
deep fryer, agreeing to review a $5 million award against
 Global-Tech Advanced Innovations Inc.  in favor of  SEB SA .  The appeal centers on the standards that apply under U.S.
law when a company is accused of inducing its customers to
infringe a patent. A jury found that Global-Tech’s Pentalpha
unit directly infringed the patent and also caused infringement
by customers Montgomery Ward and Fingerhut.  Pentalpha sold deep fryers to compete with ones sold under
the T-Fal name by SEB, a home-appliance maker based in Aix-en-
Provence, France. A U.S. appeals court  upheld  the jury finding
last year, saying Pentalpha had a “deliberate indifference” as
to whether its fryers would infringe the SEB patent.  The high court case will “have an impact on how companies
conduct themselves, what they have to do to avoid infringement
and what kinds of due diligence they have to do if they’re
coming out with a new product,” said Gary Hnath, a patent
lawyer with Mayer Brown in Washington who has written on the
case. “The question is can you shut your eyes to what would
seem to be a very real risk of patent infringement?”  In developing its fryer, Pentalpha bought an SEB fryer in
Hong Kong and copied its “cool touch” features, according to
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Pentalpha
never told its lawyer that it had copied the design when it
obtained a written opinion that the fryer didn’t violate 26
patents, the appeals court said.  Pentalpha contends the appeals court erred in using the
deliberate indifference standard in finding inducement. Instead,
the company contends patent owners should be required to show
there was a “purposeful, culpable expression and conduct” to
encourage infringement.  The case could have broad implications for the software,
electronics and biotechnology industries, said patent lawyer
Edward Reines of Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP in Redwood Shores,
California.  The case is Global-Tech Appliances v. SEB SA, 10-6.  Patents  Chimei Faces U.S. Investigation of Thomson’s LCD Patent Claims  Chimei Innolux Corp. , Taiwan’s largest maker of liquid-
crystal display panels, will be investigated by a U.S. trade
agency to determine if it violates patents owned by
Technicolor’s Thomson Licensing SA.  The U.S. International Trade Commission said yesterday that
it will look into the patent-infringement claims made in August
by Thomson. A violation may result in a ban on imports of LCD
panels made by Chimei, including ones with controllers made by
 MStar Semiconductor Inc.  MStar, a Hsinchu, Taiwan-based chip
designer, also was named in the complaint.  Thomson claims Miaoli, Taiwan-based Chimei infringes five
patents related to ways that improve the image on the LCD. Three
of the patents originated with Xerox Corp. and Palo Alto
Research Center Inc. before they were assigned to Thomson,
according to the complaint.  Thomson, based in Paris, filed a patent-infringement
lawsuit making the same claims in federal court in Wilmington,
Delaware, in July.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Liquid Crystal Display
Devices, Including Monitors, Televisions and Modules, 337-741,
U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  Celgene Sues Natco to Block Generic Copy of Revlimid Drug  Celgene Corp.,  a maker of blood-cancer drugs, filed a
lawsuit to prevent  Natco Pharma Ltd.  from selling a generic
version of its top-selling medicine Revlimid in the U.S.  Natco is seeking U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval
to sell a copy of the medicine. Celgene contends that a generic
version would infringe 10 patents and is seeking a ruling that
would block approval until all expire. The patents expire from
2016 through 2026, according to information on the FDA website.  Revlimid, approved by U.S. regulators in 2005, is Summit,
New Jersey-based Celgene’s biggest product, accounting for 64
percent of the company’s sales last year. In April, Celgene
projected Revlimid sales as high as $2.3 billion this year, up
from $1.71 billion in 2009.  The drug treats multiple myeloma, which hobbles the immune
system by destroying bone marrow and impairing the production of
white blood cells, red blood cells and platelets. The patents
cover lenalidomide, the active ingredient in Revlimid; solid
forms of the compound; and methods of using or administering the
drug, according to the complaint filed Oct. 8 in federal court
in Newark, New Jersey.  As part of its FDA application, Hyderabad, India-based
Natco said the patents are invalid, unenforceable or not
infringed. The lawsuit is standard under federal law to clarify
patent rights while the FDA is considering the drug application.  The case is Celgene Corp. v. Natco Pharma Ltd., 10cv5187,
U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey (Newark).  Cephalon, Eurand, Impax Reach Settlement Over Muscle Relaxant  Cephalon Inc. entered into an agreement with Eurand Inc.
and Impax Laboratories Inc. to settle patent litigation over
Amrix, a muscle relaxant, Cephalon said in a regulatory filing.  Under the agreement, Cephalon’s Anesta affiliate and Eurand
will grant Impax a non-exclusive, royalty-bearing license to the
Eurand patent for the drug.  International Regulation  France’s Music-Download Program Wins Approval From EU  France won European Union approval for a plan to give young
people 25 euros ($34.70) of free music when they buy subsidized
download cards, in an effort to combat online piracy.  The European Commission  said yesterday that it saw no
competition problems with the program. French consumers aged
between 12 and 25 will pay 25 euros for a card giving them 50
euros worth of music downloads.  “Music online is certainly a driver for the success of the
Internet and for economic development,” said Competition
Commissioner Joaquin Almunia in an e-mailed statement.
“However, we shall ensure that such initiatives are implemented
in compliance with the EU state aid rules.”  France is trying to encourage legal downloads of music
after criticism of its new anti-piracy law that allows courts to
suspend Internet access for people who repeatedly download
illegal content. Record companies such as  Vivendi SA  and film
industry representatives have pushed for such a law to tackle
online copyright infringement and Web piracy.  Illegal downloading of songs reached an all-time high last
year, eroding revenue in Spain, France and Brazil, the
 International Federation of the Phonographic Industry  said in
January. Digital sales of music accounted for 27 percent of
revenue at the biggest record companies in 2009, it said.  An estimated one in five Internet users in Europe’s top
markets often engages in illegal music sharing, according to
market analyst Jupiter Research.  RIM Has Until Year-End to Let India Access BlackBerry  India’s government gave  Research In Motion Ltd.  until the
end of the year to come up with a solution to allow security
agencies to monitor RIM’s BlackBerry enterprise e-mail service,
a government official said.  The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, didn’t
give more details. The official said that a two-month reprieve
granted at the end of August would be extended by another two
months.  RIM averted a ban in the world’s second-largest mobile-
phone market by giving a temporary solution on Aug. 30 to allow
monitoring of BlackBerry data. India, concerned that terrorists
may take advantage of the encryption in smartphones, has stepped
up its scrutiny over the telecommunications industry since the
2008 Mumbai terror attacks that left 166 dead.  The company was also expected to offer a permanent
solution, that would include real-time access, in three to four
months, Home Secretary G.K. Pillai said last month. India’s
dispute with the Canadian company resumed this year after RIM
upgraded BlackBerry encryption, making it difficult for Indian
authorities to access data, Pillai said at the time.  Satchit Gayakwad, a spokesman in Mumbai for Waterloo,
Ontario-based RIM, didn’t respond to a call to his mobile phone.  Last week, RIM averted a ban in the United Arab Emirates,
when the country’s phone regulator said it wouldn’t implement a
planned stoppage of BlackBerry service. Saudi Arabian
authorities canceled a planned shutdown in August, citing the
“positive development” in meeting the country’s monitoring
needs.  RIM said Oct. 8 it continues to follow the principles for
working with government officials it laid out in an Aug. 12
statement and wouldn’t comment further on confidential
regulatory matters.  Trademarks  Darden Files Infringement Suit Against TGI Fridays Franchisee  A  Darden Restaurants Inc.  unit sued Briad Restaurant Group,
owner of the franchises for 68 T.G.I. Friday’s restaurants, over
a promotion in the San Diego market for “never ending shrimp.”  Darden claims that the promotion infringes its trademark
for the “never ending pasta bowl,” used by its Olive Garden
subsidiary. T.G.I. Friday’s wasn’t named in the suit.  “We’ve defended it before against IHOP in a suit that was
settled in 2005,” Darden spokesman Rich Jeffers said. “Our
trademarks and other intellectual property are valuable business
assets and our policy is to vigorously oppose any infringement
of them.”  Belinda J. Scrimenti and Scott T. Lonardo of Chicago’s
Pattishall, McAuliffe, Newbury, Hilliard & Geraldson LLP
represent Darden in the suit, filed Oct. 6 in federal court in
San Diego. Gregory S. Markow and Joshua Sonne of San Diego’s
Hecht Solberg Robinson Goldberg Bagley LLP also represent
Darden.  Briad, based in Livingston, New Jersey, also operates
Wendy’s franchises, as well as Marriott and Hilton hotels,
according to the company’s website. Rick Barbrick, Briad’s
president, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Darden Concepts Inc. v. Briad Restaurant Group,
3:10-cv-02077 IEG, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
California (San Diego).  Zelnick Discusses Brand Protection via Social Media  Robert Zelnick, a partner at McDermott Will & Emery, spoke
to Bloomberg Law’s legal analyst Spencer Mazyck about business
strategies for protecting and communicating brands via social
media. To watch the interview, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 