-- Global Dairy Plans $242 Million in Hong Kong IPO to Invest in Cattle Farms
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2010-10-13T10:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/global-dairy-seeks-242-million-in-hong-kong-ipo-to-invest-in-cattle-farms.html
Global Dairy Holdings Ltd. , a
Chinese diary product company, plans to raise as much as $242
million in a Hong Kong initial public offering to fund
investments in farms and its distribution network.  The milk-powder producer, based in Daqing city in northeast
China, is offering about 361 million shares at HK$3.60 to
HK$5.20 apiece, according to terms for the sale. Macquarie Group
Ltd. is leading the initial offer.  Global Dairy is one of three initial public offerings
planned by Chinese dairy companies announced this week in Hong
Kong, as the benchmark Hang Seng Index advanced 14 percent since
September. Investor interest may be reviving after shares of
 China Mengniu Dairy Co.  and rivals plunged in 2008 because of
melamine contamination of milk products in China.  “Since the melamine incidents, the government put out a
lot of regulations to strengthen the quality of milk products,”
said  Alice Hui , an analyst at DBS Vickers Hong Kong Ltd. “It’s
been quite a while since the incidents.”  Global Dairy operates two production plants with an
annual capacity of about 31,011 metric tons of milk powder,
according to a  filing  to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday.
The sale accounts for 35.7 percent of its enlarged share capital,
the terms showed. After listing, it may exercise an option to
sell an additional 54.1 million shares.  Of the stock offered, 70 percent are new shares and 30
percent existing equity. The company plans to fix the price for
its shares on Oct. 21 and start trading on Oct. 28.  Modern Farming (Group) Co. , which operates dairy farms,
is seeking to raise about $300 million and list in Hong Kong
next month, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter. Guangdong Yashili Group Co., which produces dairy
products, plans to raise about $350 million and list in Hong
Kong late this month or early November, said two people
familiar with the transaction.  Editors: Tan Hwee Ann, Frank Longid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net  