-- MGM Resorts, Kerkorian Sell Stock as Vegas Starts to Recover
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2010-10-13T21:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/mgm-resorts-kerkorian-sell-stock-as-vegas-starts-to-recover.html
MGM Resorts  International plans to
raise about $517 million selling stock, boosting cash amid signs
that a record Las Vegas gambling slump is easing.  The company, the biggest casino operator on the Las Vegas
Strip, will sell 40.9 million shares for $12.65 apiece,
according to statements today and yesterday. The price is 7
percent less than yesterday’s closing price. Founder and top
shareholder  Kirk Kerkorian  will sell 27.8 million shares,
reducing his holding after considering strategic alternatives
for the past year.  MGM dropped $1.51, or 11 percent, to $12.10 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , the biggest decline
in almost a year. The company said it plans to use the proceeds
primarily to repay some of its almost $13 billion in  debt .  MGM and Kerkorian’s Tracinda Corp. are tapping public
markets as a record slump in Las Vegas eases and casino
securities rally. Las Vegas Strip gambling revenue jumped 21
percent in August, Nevada’s Gaming Control Board said last week.
The company said yesterday that  cash flow  at its CityCenter
joint venture on the Strip turned positive in the third quarter.  “It eliminates some of the debt issues that could really
hurt the company,”  David Bain , an analyst at Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc., said of the share sales.  Borgata Hotel  MGM said it found a buyer for its half-interest in the
Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa in Atlantic City, bringing proceeds
of about $250 million, and that the company expects to receive
about $125 million in loan repayments this month from its Macau
joint venture, the MGM Grand Macau.  The offer for the Borgata is below the property’s carrying
value and will result in a $128 million pretax charge in the
third quarter, MGM said. Partner  Boyd Gaming Corp. , which runs
the resort, has the right to match any bid.  The stock being sold by MGM represents about a 9.3 percent
increase in shares outstanding, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. An additional 6.135 million shares from the company
and 4.167 million from Tracinda will be offered for
overallotments.  Barclays Capital Inc.  is managing the share
sale.  The stock sales would dilute Kerkorian’s stake to about 30
percent, Tracinda said separately. The 93-year-old billionaire
is no longer seeking strategic alternatives for his MGM stake,
according to the statement. He said a year ago MGM Resorts was
undervalued and he was open to deal proposals. Tracinda now owns
37 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  “Tracinda believes that there is substantial value in the
assets of the company and that MGM Resorts is a good long-term
investment,” it said in a statement. “Tracinda is not
currently seeking other strategic alternatives with respective
to its investment in MGM Resorts.”  ‘Work to Do’  MGM Resorts also reported a preliminary third-quarter net
loss of 72 cents a share, compared with a loss of $1.70 a year
earlier. Revenue was about $1.56 billion, the company said.
Analysts expected $1.55 billion, the average of 17  estimates .  Cash flow at wholly owned casinos, measured as adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
declined 13 percent to $314 million in the quarter. Adjusted
Ebitda at CityCenter, MGM’s Strip joint venture with Dubai
World, was $41 million in the third quarter, on revenue of $413
million, helped by condominium sales and table game winnings at
the development’s Aria casino.  “This company has a lot more work to do,” Bain said.
“These Vegas numbers are less than stellar.”  Solvency  Chief Executive Officer  Jim Murren  resolved solvency
concerns surrounding MGM Resorts in May 2009 after refinancing
debt and selling more than $1 billion in common stock and $1.5
billion in senior secured notes as part of a recapitalization.  Murren has subsequently tapped capital markets when
investor demand for junk debt and casino stocks has rallied,
including a $1 billion convertible note sale in April.  MGM’s $475 million of notes due March 2018 climbed 3.75
cents on the dollar to 104.25 cents to yield 10.5 percent at
9:42 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The debt has climbed 11.625 cents since trading at 92.625 cents
on Sept. 23, Trace data show.  MGM put its stake in Borgata on the market and is leaving
Atlantic City as part of a settlement with New Jersey
regulators, who found the company’s partner in the MGM Grand
Macau,  Pansy Ho , to be “unsuitable.” An initial public
offering of the venture is planned for this year, Murren has
said.  A deal announced in the summer to sell the land beneath
Borgata to Vornado Realty Trust and Geyser Holdings will close
in the fourth quarter, and deliver net proceeds of about $71
million, MGM Resorts said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  