-- Brazilian Builders, Mining Companies to Eclipse Retailers, Goldman Says
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2010-10-13T21:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/goldman-says-brazil-retailer-rally-to-shift-to-miners-banks-homebuilders.html
Brazilian mining companies, banks,
homebuilders and transportation companies will likely eclipse
gains for retailers, which have led this year’s advance in Latin
America’s largest market, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  Homebuilder  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes ,
payment processor  Cielo SA  and private equity firm GP
Investments Ltd. were added to the Goldman Sachs focus list of
Latin American stocks, analysts at the New York-based bank said
in a note today. Consumer-goods company  Hypermarcas SA  was
removed.  “With great disparities in performance among Brazilian
stocks and sectors so far in 2010, we believe it is time to
rotate sectorally out of consumer and retail stocks that have
been the top performers into other parts of the market,
strategist  Stephen Graham  wrote.  Goldman also said it expects the Bovespa stock index to
rise 10 percent to 78,000 by yearend from the Oct. 11 close.  Consumer goods companies led gains the MSCI Brazil index’s
6.2 percent rise this year, while energy producers were the
biggest laggards. As the Bovespa rose 4.5 percent this year,
retailer Lojas Renner SA and tobacco maker Souza Cruz SA surged
more than 50 percent.  This contrasts a 27 percent drop for pulp producer  Fibria
Celulose SA  and a 30 percent decline for  Petroleo Brasileiro SA ,
Brazil’s state-controlled oil company. Goldman has “buy”
ratings on Fibria and Petroleo Brasileiros, along with iron ore
miner  Vale SA  and pulp producer Suzano Papel e Celulose SA.  Builders Rally  Homebuilders, banks and transportation stocks led gains
today on the Bovespa. Builder MRV Engenharia e Participacoes SA
surged 6.5 percent, leading a rally that pushed the BM&FBovespa
Real Estate index up 3.7 percent. Airlines  Gol Linhas Aereas
Inteligentes SA  and Tam SA, jumped, rising 4.9 percent and 6
percent, respectively. The MSCI Brazil Financial index rose 2.6
percent, led by federally controlled lender Banco do Brasil SA.  Vale gained 0.5 percent to 47.64 reais. Fibria fell 2.1
percent to 28.62 reais.  “Commodity stocks we think will especially shine, as
developed-market central banks provide a continued flow of
liquidity,” wrote  Graham , who is “bearish” on Brazilian
steelmakers. “Defensive utilities and telcos may not perform in
the strong market we expect.”  Fed Policy  Commodities have gained since U.S. Federal Reserve policy
makers said at their most recent meeting on Sept. 21 that too-
low inflation would warrant looser monetary policy. The Fed will
keep its benchmark interest rate on overnight loans between
banks near zero through 2011, according to the survey median,
longer than previously estimated.  Brazilian steelmakers won’t benefit as much from higher
commodity prices because profit margins will be “squeezed” by
rising iron ore and coal costs and steel imports will
“pressure” prices domestically, wrote Graham.  Banks in Brazil will post earnings growth of 39 percent in
2010 and 31 percent in 2011, more than “higher-flying”
retailers that have surged this year, he wrote.  “Financials of course face a different set of risks from
retailers, and generally we do not expect their multiples to be
as high, but the gap at the moment seems excessive,” Graham
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  