-- Google, NBC Universal Abandon TV Ad-Sales Partnership
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-10-13T20:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/google-nbc-discontinue-online-advertising-sales-partnership.html
Google Inc.  and  General Electric
Co. ’s NBC Universal said they have abandoned a television
advertising-sales partnership that began two years ago.  “We’re not currently contributing inventory into the
Google marketplace,” NBC Universal spokeswoman  Liz Fischer  said
in an e-mailed statement. A Google representative confirmed that
the companies are ending the arrangement.  NBC Universal struck a deal with Google in September 2008
for the Internet-search provider to broker ads for cable
networks including MSNBC, CNBC, SyFy and Oxygen. Google allowed
customers to buy TV spots using its self-service website, and
the NBC agreement bolstered the program that previously only
worked with  Dish Network Corp.  NBC and Google split the revenue
and collaborated on marketing and research.  NBC said it’s continuing to work with Google on “multiple
projects involving advanced advertising.”  This month, Google announced network partnerships for a
service that helps users navigate the Web on their television.
The company said the new service, called Google TV, will include
CNBC Real-Time, an application to track stock prices and
financial news from NBC Universal’s CNBC cable news channel.  “Both NBC and Google are committed to bringing more
relevance to TV viewership and advertising,” Mark Piesanen,
director of strategic partner development for Google TV Ads,
said in a statement. “CNBC is an important partner in the
launch of Google TV and we are working together on research
studies.”  AdWeek  reported  earlier today that the TV-ad sales
partnership had ended.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, rose $1.91 to
$543.30 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading .
The shares have lost 12 percent this year.  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, rose 9 cents to $17.28
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Comcast Corp., the
largest U.S. cable operator, is currently seeking regulatory
approval to purchase a 51 percent stake in NBC Universal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  