-- Google's Reicher Aims at Another Fledgling Industry: Wind Farms
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2010-10-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/google-s-reicher-aims-at-another-fledgling-industry-wind-farms.html
Google Inc. , the Web company that a
decade ago used engineering prowess to conquer the nascent
online advertising market, is now aiming technology and its cash
pile at another fledgling industry: offshore wind farming.  The company  said yesterday  that it’s investing in a $5
billion underwater network that can channel electricity from
wind turbines scattered off the Atlantic coast, enough to light
up 1.9 million homes from New York to Virginia.  “This project is Google’s signal that we want to have some
real impact as we are also making serious financial returns in
our energy project investing,”  Dan Reicher , who directs Google’s
energy and climate projects, said in an interview. “We couldn’t
be in a better place at a better moment to be making an
investment like this.”  Google is betting that its support will encourage other
investors to back wind farming, which the Global Wind Energy
Council says will generate more than 22 percent of the world’s
electricity in two decades. The investment also may help the
U.S. narrow a lead held by China, which is installing more than
twice the wind-generating power of the U.S.  By investing in offshore turbines, Google is trying to
avoid some of the criticism aimed at on-land wind farm efforts.
Homeowners decry them as an eyesore, environmentalists say
rotors threaten migrating birds, and many lawmakers have refused
to fight in their favor.  “We have tried for years to lobby for policies to kick-
start the development of renewable energy but have been met
with nothing but stalemate in Congress,” said  Melinda Pierce ,
lead lobbyist for the  Sierra Club , a San Francisco-based
environmental group. This project offers “the kind of new idea
and initiative needed to develop utility-scale offshore wind.”  Offshore Farms Opposed  Even some offshore projects have met opposition. A planned
farm off Cape Cod, Massachusetts, has been criticized by
homeowners whose ocean views are affected and Native American
tribes who say the structures would desecrate sacred rites.  Some lawmakers were loath to invest in green energy
projects as the financial crisis and recession dragged on growth
and sent the unemployment rate to 10.1 percent last October.  Under the new project, Google will buy a 37.5 percent
stake in the development stage of the Atlantic Wind Connection
project, said  Rick Needham , director of green business
operations at Mountain View, California-based Google. The new
transmission line would form the “backbone” of an offshore wind
industry that could add 6,000 megawatts of capacity to the grid.
That’s as much as about five nuclear plants.  Wind Drawbacks  The first phase of the project, which the developers
aim to complete by early 2016, would run about 150 miles and
cost $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion, Needham said. The second
phase to complete the 350-mile (563 kilometers) line could be
finished by 2020.  The project tackles a key concern over the intermittent
nature of wind power, which can force utilities to find other
sources of electricity when the propellers aren’t turning, said
Brandi Colander, a lawyer at the  Natural Resources Defense
Council , a New York-based environmental group. Google built a
platform that lets multiple wind farms connect to the grid.  The Atlantic Wind Connection rounds out a widening
portfolio of sometimes unconventional green-technology
investments for Google. Last week, Google said it’s testing
vehicles that drive themselves to help improve road safety and
aid the environment. In September, Google  said it invested  $1
million to fund the research and development of a  monorail 
that’s powered by pedaling passengers.  ‘Not A Traditional Company’  In July, the company agreed to buy most of the electricity
generated by a NextEra Energy Resources LLC wind farm in Iowa,
with plans to resell the power to wholesalers. In February, the
company won federal regulatory approval to trade in U.S.
wholesale electricity markets.  Google, which offers a service that lets residents monitor
energy use online, has used its philanthropic arm, Google.org,
to invest in startups that include solar-energy provider ESolar
Inc. and Makani Power Inc., a maker of  airborne wind turbines .  “Google made it very clear that they are not a traditional
company and they are not going to operate as one,” said  Scott Kessler , an analyst at Standard & Poor’s, who rates the stock a
“strong buy” and doesn’t own it. “If you’re going to invest your
hard-earned money in Google stock, you need to understand that
they are going to try to these things from time to time.”  Google would get a guaranteed return during the
construction of the project if it’s approved by Federal
regulators, said Daniele Seitz, a utility analyst at  Dudack
Research Group  in New York. Transmission developers are allowed
to pass along the costs of construction through power bill
increases, Seitz said. Federal rules also let transmission line
investors collect a profit on approved projects.  Risks, Returns  Reicher, an assistant secretary at the U.S. Department
of Energy from 1997 through 2001, said Google considered the
project for more than a year. Before joining Google in 2007,
Reicher worked as president of  New Energy Capital Corp. , a
private-equity firm in Hanover, New Hampshire.  Like other clean-energy investments, the Atlantic Wind
Connection has the support of Google’s co-founders  Larry Page 
and  Sergey Brin  and its  Chief Executive Officer   Eric Schmidt ,
Reicher said. The company intends to make a profit on it.  “What attracted me to Google was the willingness to
take a look at higher risk investments that offered both
the opportunities for some real impact and some real
financial returns,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Chediak  in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ,  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 