-- U.K. Government Will Scrap Some of 700 Agencies, Merge Others
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-10-14T07:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/government-plans-to-announce-it-s-axing-some-of-700-quangos-merge-others.html
The U.K. government will announce
plans today for the future of more than 700 agencies, scrapping
some and redefining the work of others in an attempt to increase
accountability.  Cabinet Office Minister  Francis Maude  will tell Parliament
at 9.30 a.m. which of the bodies, known as quangos -- quasi-
autonomous nongovernmental organizations -- will survive and
which will be axed. Some agencies will have their
responsibilities altered, while others may be merged or have
their activities taken under ministerial control.  In a  speech last year , Prime Minister  David Cameron , then
in opposition, said the bodies, which take decisions on
everything from arts funding to setting the minimum wage, remove
democratic accountability and undermine the effectiveness of
government. Scrapping them may also save money as the coalition
government tries to reduce the  record budget deficit .  “There is an assumption that any body which is set up by
the state should be accountable,” Maude said on BBC radio
today. “How much money will be saved will be varied by
different departments.”  Bodies that may be at threat include  British Nuclear Fuels
Ltd. , the Health Protection Agency,  British Waterways , the
National Policing Improvement Agency, the Human Fertilization
and Embryology Authority and the Commission for Rural
Communities. Other agencies include the Commission for
Integrated Transport, the  School Food Trust  and the Sustainable
Development Commission.  The Financial Times newspaper reported that the Office of
Fair Trading faces a merger under the plans.  The government will introduce legislation on quangos next
month. Job losses will not be announced today as the process of
dealing with the agencies is just beginning,  Steve Field ,
Cameron’s spokesman, told reporters yesterday, adding that
“very possibly there will be job losses” in the future.  “This is not about axing lots of bodies,” he said. “This
is about ensuring we have the right structures in place to
deliver the right functions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 