-- BofA Wins Dismissal of Suit Seeking Mortgage Buybacks
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-10-13T18:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/greenwich-financial-loses-motion-for-bank-of-america-class-suit.html
Bank of America Corp.  won dismissal
of a lawsuit that sought to force the bank’s Countrywide unit to
buy back the full unpaid balance of mortgages it had sold to
investor trusts.  New York state Supreme Court Justice  Barbara Kapnick  ruled
that the plaintiffs failed to meet the preconditions required
under the trusts’ pooling and service agreements for bringing a
suit, including the support of 25 percent of certificate
holders.  Greenwich Financial Services Distressed Mortgage Fund 3
LLC, run by a Greenwich, Connecticut-based securities firm, sued
Countrywide Financial Corp. in 2008, claiming mortgage bond
investors would be hurt by its agreement with state attorneys
general to  reduce  payments by $8.4 billion on 400,000 mortgages.
The lawsuit proposed a class action on behalf of 374 trusts.  “These preconditions protect investors collectively
against ill-conceived litigation forays that could prove
damaging to investors -- such as the Greenwich plaintiffs’ bid,
which would effectively halt all modifications of distressed
mortgages,” Bank of America said today in a statement.  Kapnick’s order dismissing the suit was dated Oct. 7 and
filed today.  Greenwich Financial Services LLC and its lawyers are
studying the opinion and will decide whether to appeal,  Bill Frey , the head of Greenwich Financial, said today in a telephone
interview.  The case is Greenwich Financial Services Distressed
Mortgage Fund 3 v. Countrywide Financial Corp., 650474/2008, New
York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 