-- Iceland to Present Bill to Wipe Out Personal Debt, Minister Jonasson Says
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-10-13T10:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/iceland-to-present-bill-to-wipe-out-personal-debt-minister-jonasson-says.html
Iceland’s government will this week
present a bill allowing debtors to walk away from obligations
that exceed asset values and to nullify personal bankruptcies
after four years, Internal Affairs Minister  Ogmundur Jonasson 
said.  “All Icelanders can see that our society is currently in
turmoil,” Jonasson said in an interview in Reykjavik. “We’re
therefore required to sit down at the table and offer solutions;
I don’t anticipate that the people running financial
institutions will disagree.”  Prime Minister  Johanna Sigurdardottir ’s coalition is
holding talks with the lenders today to thrash out housing
market reforms after about 8,000 protestors gathered outside
parliament last week to show their anger over rising homeowner
insolvencies. The International Monetary Fund, which is leading
Iceland’s $4.6 billion bailout, estimates that 63 percent of the
island’s loans are non-performing.  Jonasson, who spoke in an Oct. 11 interview, says
he favors a proposal put forward by the Interest Group of 
the Homes, which represents households demanding debt relief. 
The lobby group wants lenders to forgive about 200 billion 
kronur ($1.8 billion) in mortgage debt.  The opposition, which met with the government yesterday, is
likely to back the proposals.  IMF Obstacles  “The banks need to be willing to accept that the debts of
households are corrected,” said Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, a
Progressive Party lawmaker, the country’s second-biggest
opposition group, in an interview. “The opposition has been of
the opinion that some kind of a general reduction of debt needs
to take place; the form and shape of that reduction has to be
calculated down to a number that society can agree on.”  Sigurdardottir has already extended by five months a
moratorium on foreclosures due to expire in October, a measure
that may breach the terms of her government’s agreement with the
IMF. The fund won’t be “allowed” to hinder the government’s
efforts to reduce household debts, she said on Oct. 8.  The country’s banks are state-controlled successors to the
failed lenders that brought down the economy two years ago. The
resolution committees of  Kaupthing Bank hf  and  Glitnir Bank hf 
agreed on behalf of creditors to take stakes in the new lenders,
Arion hf and Islandsbanki hf, to cover part of their claims.
Creditors of Kaupthing, Glitnir and  Landsbanki Islands hf  are
owed as much as $86 billion in total.  ‘Enormous’ Problem  A write-down of $1.8 billion is equivalent to about 8
percent of total assets at Iceland’s three biggest banks, their
2009 balance sheets show.  “The problem is enormous,” Eyglo Hardardottir, a lawmaker
in the Progressive Party, told local broadcaster RUV today. “No
solution is simple, but this is doable.”  Most of Iceland’s mortgage debt is based on  inflation -
linked bonds. The consumer price index soared 41 percent from
January 2007 through September this year, according to
 Statistics Iceland . Real wages fell 10.1 percent from the
beginning of 2007 through August this year, the last period for
which data are available, according to the office. Real
disposable incomes slumped 20.3 percent last year, the central
bank estimates.  “Yet another matter we need to complete in the next few
days is how we can rid Iceland of the inflation index, which is
atrocious,” Jonasson said.  Footing the Bill  Though most of the country’s non-performing loans stem from
Arion, Islandsbanki and Landsbanki successor NBI, according to
the IMF, the biggest provider of inflation-linked debt is the
state-backed Housing Financing Fund. The HFF accounted for 64
percent of Iceland’s 1.23 trillion kronur in outstanding
mortgage debt at the end of June, according to the  Financial
Supervisory Authority .  HFF Director  Asta H. Bragadottir  said the mortgage lender
isn’t able to withstand a flat reduction of all its home loans,
in an interview today. If it is forced to write down the debt,
the government will need to cover the loss or the country’s
pension funds, which hold most of the bonds backing the debt,
would need to agree to take the loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  