-- Rhee Quits as Washington, D.C., Schools Chief Amid Clash With Teachers
-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y   a n d   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 2010-10-13T18:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/michelle-rhee-is-said-to-step-down-as-washington-d-c-schools-chancellor.html
Michelle Rhee , the public schools
chancellor of the District of Columbia who drew attacks from
unions for firing more than 200 teachers, mostly over student
performance, has resigned, effective at the end of the month.  Deputy Chancellor Kaya Henderson will take over, Rhee’s
boss, Mayor  Adrian Fenty , said at a press conference today.
Fenty lost his bid for re-election Sept. 14 in a primary in
which Rhee’s educational policies became a central issue. Rhee
said she reached a mutual decision with Fenty’s opponent, City
Council Chairman  Vincent Gray , to resign. Gray, who has no
Republican opposition, is expected to become mayor.  Rhee, 40, favored measuring teacher quality by students’
test  scores , firing underperforming instructors and pushing
merit pay -- the same changes advocated by President  Barack Obama ’s administration in its $4.35 billion Race to the Top
program. In July, Rhee dismissed 241 teachers and put 737 on
notice to improve within a year or leave. Washington has
languished for years near the bottom of national rankings in
student proficiency in reading and math.  “We have agreed together that the best way to keep these
reforms going is for this reformer to step aside,” Rhee said at
the press conference. “All of the reforms can continue as
planned.”  ‘Pivotal Leader’  U.S. Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  in a statement called
Rhee “a pivotal leader in the school reform movement.” Duncan
said the department expects her to be a force for change
wherever she goes.  Rhee, who became chancellor in 2007, declined to say what
her plans are.  “My goal is to continue to serve the children of this
nation,” she said at the press conference.  Rhee has started a website, Twitter account and a Facebook
page to spread her message about overhauling U.S. education. Her
 website  invites visitors to “be the first to learn of her latest
plans for improving our educational system” by signing up for
her e-mail list.  Fenty, speaking with reporters after the press conference
said Rhee has “probably done more to turn around a public
school system than almost anybody” who has served as a
chancellor in a similar period.  ‘Cautionary Tale’  Chester Finn , president of the Thomas B. Fordham Institute,
a Washington education research organization, said he favored
Rhee’s goals and approach. Her short-lived tenure is typical of
those who push change in a disruptive way, Finn said.  “It’s a cautionary tale that you don’t always win these
battles, that there will be setbacks and there will be costs in
making changes that will better serve kids,” Finn said in a
telephone interview.  While there has been progress nationally, many parents and
teachers remain uncomfortable with education changes that
include teacher firings and school closings, he said.  Diane Ravitch , who was an assistant secretary of education
during the administration of President George H. W. Bush, called
Rhee’s resignation a sign her methods and style cannot succeed
over the long term.  “Rhee is out because her patron lost the election, and
that loss should have taught the leaders of this movement that
they are headed in the wrong direction,” Ravitch wrote in an e-
mail. “Public schools cannot be reformed without public
support.”  ‘Stiff Resistance’  “The school reform ideas that she represents will continue
with the support of the wealthiest, most powerful men in our
society -- President Obama,  Bill Gates , and Wall Street -- but
will encounter stiff resistance from millions of teachers,
parents, and citizens, who want to improve their local schools,
not close them or privatize them,” Ravitch said.  Rhee alienated people by acting as if she could do whatever
she wanted because she reported only to the mayor, Ravitch said
in a September e-mail before the election. Posing on the  cover 
of Time magazine in December 2008, with a broom in hand, under
the title “How to Fix America’s Schools,” Rhee didn’t help
soften that image, Ravitch said.  Personality Differences  Rhee’s interim successor, Henderson, is as tough-minded and
aggressive on overhaul goals as Rhee,  Emily Cohen , district
policy director for the National Council on Teacher Quality in
Washington, said a telephone interview today.  Henderson has a personality that can help her work better
with others, especially black parents who said they had become
disaffected by Rhee’s style, Cohen said.  Rhee, the middle child of South Korean immigrants, earned
her undergraduate degree at Cornell University in Ithaca, New
York, and her master’s degree in public policy at Harvard
University’s Kennedy School of Government, in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.  A single mother, Rhee has two daughters who attend public
school in Washington. She is engaged to be married to  Kevin Johnson , the former professional basketball player who is mayor
of Sacramento, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Moroney  in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey Young  in Washington at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  