-- Michelle Obama Tells Democrats in Campaign to `Finish What We've Started'
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-10-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/michelle-obama-hits-campaign-trail-for-embattled-democrats-as-nov-2-looms.html
Michelle Obama  returned to
campaigning for the first time since her husband’s election in
an effort to raise money for embattled Democratic candidates and
enthusiasm from the party’s voter base.  The first lady said Democrats in the November congressional
elections must rally to “finish what we’ve started.”  “Here is something that I asked you all when I was on the
campaign trail, I asked you all to make sure you had my
husband’s back, right?” she said yesterday at a fundraiser for
Wisconsin Senator  Russ Feingold  in Milwaukee. “He cannot do
this alone. He needs strong leaders like Russ to help him.”  She carried the same message later to supporters in her
hometown of Chicago at an event for  Alexi Giannoulias , who is in
a close contest with Republican U.S. Representative  Mark Kirk  to
fill the U.S. Senate seat from Illinois formerly held by her
husband.  The first lady’s travel schedule, along with that of the
president, provides a road map of the races that the White House
is focusing on in the final weeks before the Nov. 2 elections.  The six Senate candidates Michelle Obama is stumping for --
in Wisconsin, Illinois, Colorado, Ohio, Connecticut, Washington
and California -- are on the nonpartisan  Cook Political Report ’s
list of the 11 closest races in the country. Over the next nine
days the president is scheduled to be in Delaware, Ohio,
California, Oregon, Washington and Nevada. Barack and Michelle
Obama will appear together Oct. 17 in Ohio, a key swing state.
Vice President  Joe Biden  also is on the road for Democrats,
covering 27 cities in 17 states in the last month alone.  Softer Approach  In contrast to the attacks on Republicans that the
president delivers at his campaign stops, the first lady took a
softer approach in her speeches yesterday.  “Like every parent I know my girls, my children, are at
the center of my world and my hopes for their future are at the
heart of every single thing that I do,” she told about 700
people who paid between $250 and $500 each to attend. “I come
to this stuff more as a mom.”  At the Chicago fundraiser for Giannoulias, where about
donors paid amounts from $500 a person to $10,000 a couple,
Obama, 46, told her audience that “we all want to leave
something better for our children.”  The message resonated with Tia Johnson, a stay-at-home
mother of two young children who lives in Beloit, Wisconsin.  “Before I had children I was not much concerned about
politics,” she said. “Being a mother, and seeing what my kids
are dealing with in school, thinking about the economy and the
future, it changes you.”  Administration Record  The first lady also promoted her husband’s victories
including the health care overhaul, financial regulatory reform,
investments in clean energy and tax cuts for small businesses.
Still, she said she recognized voters are angry about the
economy.  “Barack knows that too many folks are out of work right
now, and too many paychecks don’t stretch to cover the bills,”
she said in Milwaukee.  “I know that for a lot of folks, change hasn’t come fast
enough,” she said. “And believe me, it hasn’t come fast enough
for Barack, or for Russ either.”  She encouraged people to be patient and told them that
“it’s going to take a longer time to dig ourselves out of this
hole than any of us would like.”  The first lady also encouraged supporters to take advantage
of opportunities for early voting, saying she plans to cast her
ballot today.  Different Role  Ari Fleischer , former President  George W. Bush ’s first
press secretary, said the president’s wife has plays a
particular role in campaigns.  “First ladies tend to be beloved; they don’t tend to come
with a lot of political negatives that get attached to their
husbands,” Fleischer said. “They’re great for rallying the
base and raising money, but they don’t influence voter
behavior.”  In a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Oct. 7-10, Michelle
Obama outshined her husband among voters. Sixty-two percent
viewed her favorably, compared with 53 percent who said they had
a favorable view of the president.  Peggy Heyrman, 27-year-old attorney in Milwaukee who was
attending the Feingold fundraiser, said the first lady “is good
at reaching young voters.”  “She’s personable, and I think she presents her ideas very
clearly and concisely,” Heyrman said.  Campaign Stops  Michelle Obama is sticking to states her husband won in
2008, including Colorado today to raise money for Senator
 Michael Bennet ; Connecticut, where she’ll be Oct. 18 on behalf
of Senate candidate  Dick Blumenthal ; Washington, which she
visits Oct. 25 to campaign for Senator  Patty Murray , and
California, where she campaigns for Senator  Barbara Boxer  on
Oct. 26 and 27.  In competitive states it makes sense to flood the market,
said  Jonathan Mantz , who was  Hillary Clinton ’s  national finance
director  during her presidential campaign.  “You could probably get two bites of the apple sending her
as well as Biden as well as Obama,” he said.  Mantz said Michelle Obama can rally Democratic activists
and the “Obama faithful” and bring out women donors and
activists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva@bloomberg.net  