-- IEA Raises Crude Demand Forecasts Amid Recent Strength in U.S., Germany
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2010-10-13T09:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/iea-raises-crude-oil-demand-forecasts-on-recovery-in-u-s-germany-japan.html
Global oil demand will be higher
than previously estimated this year and next amid signs of
“apparently resurgent” consumption in the U.S., Germany and
Japan in the past quarter, the International Energy Agency said.  Crude oil use worldwide will average 86.9 million barrels a
day in 2010 and 88.2 million barrels a day in 2011, the IEA said
today in its monthly Oil Market Report. That’s 300,000 barrels a
day more than last month’s forecast for both those years.  Recent strength in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development nations “contained quirks which
suggest it may not persist,” according to Paris-based energy
adviser. “It is unclear whether the recovery will be
sustainable, notably in the United States.”  Global oil demand has been rising since the third quarter
of 2009 led by developing economies outside the OECD including
China and Brazil, according to the IEA. Chinese oil demand will
rise 9.3 percent this year and 4.2 percent in 2011, it said.  “Emerging economies have clearly become key players,” the
IEA said. “Meanwhile, mature economies are struggling.” Recent
increases in demand were boosted by Germans filling up their
heating oil tanks and by exceptional weather in parts of Asia,
which boosted oil-fired power plants.  Crude advanced to a five-month high earlier this month,
trading as high as $84.43 a barrel on Oct. 7 on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. The contract for November delivery gained
$1.15, or 1.4 percent, to $82.82 a barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange as of 10:55 a.m. London time.  ‘Significant’ Slowdown  The IEA said it expects a “significant” slowdown in
demand for oil products such as  jet fuel  among developed
nations, forcing refiners to reduce the amount of crude they
process. North American plants will cut runs by 5.5 percent in
the fourth quarter, compared with the previous three months.  Some refiners may, however, start to increase the amount
they process because of a strike by port workers in southern
France, forcing plants in that region to close. The strike, now
in its third week, may cause fuel shortages, the IEA said.  “The strike is pushing European product cracks and
refining margins higher however, drawing in products from abroad
and likely encouraging other refiners to increase run rates,”
the report said. A crack is a refining margin, measuring the
difference between product prices and crude.  Rising global consumption will be offset by higher
production from countries outside the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, according to the IEA estimates.  Non-OPEC Supply  The IEA raised its non-OPEC supply forecast for next year
by 150,000 barrels a day to 53.1 million barrels a day as the
U.S., Canada and China increase production. Non-OPEC supply will
average 52.6 million barrels a day in 2010.  OPEC producers, which are meeting in Vienna this week, will
need to provide an average of 29.3 million barrels a day next
year to balance world supply and demand. That’s 100,000 barrels
a day more than the estimate for this year.  The 11 OPEC members bound by production quotas cut supplies
in September by 150,000 barrels a day to 26.77 million barrels,
according to the IEA. That implies compliance of 54 percent with
record supply cuts set in 2008, down from an implementation rate
of 50 percent in August. Iraq is not bound by production quotas.  Industry-held  crude stockpiles  in the world’s developed
economies rose to 2.79 billion barrels in August which works out
to 61.1 days of consumption. That’s the second-highest level
since the report started in 1984, according to the IEA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  