-- Illegal Immigrant Inconvenient Truth Shows Few Dispensable
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-10-13T23:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/illegal-immigrants-inconvenient-truth-shows-no-nation-can-do-without-them.html
Since arriving in France six years
ago from Mali, Youba Soumbounou has sorted trash at factories
and warehouses near Paris. He got his job using fake papers and
has been told five times by police to leave the country.  His employer, which he asked not to be identified, didn’t
fire him. Instead, it has joined companies such as  Veolia
Environnement SA  and  Derichebourg SA  in seeking legal residency
for laborers they need for dirty and dangerous tasks.  “If we didn’t have access to foreign workers, we simply
wouldn’t be able to do our work,” said Pascal Decary, head of
human resources at Paris-based Veolia Proprete, Veolia’s waste-
treatment unit.  The company found out last year that 18 of its workers have
phony documents, Decary said. “There was never any question of
us abandoning people who have worked hard for us all these
years, doing jobs that natives don’t want to do.”  Global economies depend on imported labor to grow. A 2008
report by the British Parliament said 17 percent of growth was
the result of immigration in 2004 and 2005. The Washington-based
Center for American Progress, run by John Podesta, who served as
chief of staff to former President Bill Clinton, said in January
that making it easier for undocumented workers to gain residency
and attracting guest laborers would add $1.5 trillion to the
U.S. economy over the next 10 years.  In Australia, the Treasury said in February that limiting
the increase in the country’s population rate by a third would
reduce average annual economic growth to 2.3 percent from 2.7
percent.  Collision Course  At the same time, resentment over unemployment is fueling
anti-immigrant sentiment in nations from Sweden to Australia.
The collision of those views and the need for migrants to fill
undesirable jobs means politicians may have to choose between
satisfying voters and protecting their economies. Countries,
including France and the Netherlands, have dealt with the
dilemma by attacking symbols of immigration such as Islamic-
style dress without curbing the supply of workers.  “If you look beyond the noise, you don’t hear anyone
saying there shouldn’t be any immigration at all,” said Jean-
Pierre Garson, head of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development’s international migration unit in Paris, in an
interview. “They can’t. Parts of the economy would grind to a
halt. There are always certain jobs that the locals won’t do,
and that even the children of immigrants won’t do.”  An anti-immigrant party entered Sweden’s parliament for the
first time last month and the Netherlands last week formed a
government that depends on an anti-Islamic party for support.  Roma Deported  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , blaming rising crime on
immigration, deported more than 1,000 Roma starting in August
and said foreign-born criminals should be stripped of French
citizenship.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  had to set aside overhauling
immigration laws because of congressional opposition.
Australia’s two main parties now agree that immigration must be
controlled and Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is crafting a plan
to limit population growth.  None has proposed significant limitations on legal
immigration. Whether for doing jobs that locals won’t touch or
paying into pension funds weakened by lower birth rates, all
Western countries depend on workers from poorer countries, said
the OECD’s Garson.  “Decisions are often made on the basis of the emotions of
the day,” said  Ben Noteboom , chief executive officer of Diemen,
Netherlands-based  Randstad Holding NV , the world’s second-
largest staffing company, in an interview. “After a crisis,
there is more unemployment. That emotion will fade away because
in the end, when we are lying in a hospital, we need nurses.”  Foreign-Born Workers  About 25 percent of Veolia Proprete’s 26,000-member
workforce is foreign-born. In the Paris region, the number is
almost 40 percent.  Soumbounou, 36, said he has paid about 3,300 euros ($4,600)
a year into the French social security system. As part of an
agreement between waste collection companies and the government,
he has applied for permanent work papers. Since March, officials
have processed only about 50 of 1,600 applications, according to
Francine Blanche, an official at the CGT trade union.  “All I want to do is to be able to work legally,”
Soumbounou said.  Immigrants account for 16.8 percent of Germany’s workforce,
according to 2008 data from the Federal Statistical Office. In
Sweden, 15.4 percent of the labor force was born elsewhere. Both
countries have unemployment rates -- 7.5 percent in Germany and
7.4 percent in Sweden -- below the European Union’s 9.6 percent
average.  ‘Needs Its Workers’  “The German retail industry strongly needs its workers with
a migration background,” said  Stefan Genth , executive director
at the country’s HDE retailer association in Berlin. About 20
percent of the industry’s 2.9 million workers have such a
background, he added.  Of the 22 European countries in the OECD, France and the
Netherlands were the only ones in which domestic births were the
main driver of population growth between 2002 and 2006. Italy,
Finland, the Czech Republic and Hungary would have had declining
populations without immigrants, the OECD said.  Germany’s population fell last year for the first time in a
decade. A study by the Federal Statistical Office said reversing
that drop will depend on “Germany’s migration policy and by the
extent to which Germany is perceived as an attractive country of
destination.”  More people left Germany for Turkey and Poland than arrived
from those countries last year, according to Eurostat, the EU’s
statistics agency. Ireland reverted in 2009 to being an exporter
of workers for the first time in 15 years. In Spain, migrants
arriving on long-term visas fell to less than 16,000 in 2009
from 137,000 in 2008.  Returning Home  Declining U.S. job prospects led more than 1 million
undocumented Mexicans to return home during the recession,
according to the  Center for Immigration Studies  in Washington.
The group favors a policy “that admits fewer immigrants but
affords a warmer welcome for those who are admitted,” according
to its website.  As debate over U.S. immigration policies has intensified,
 News Corp.  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , along with chief executive
officers from companies including Delta Airlines Inc.,  Xerox
Corp. , Marriott International Inc. and  Yahoo Inc. , helped create
the Partnership for a New American Economy. The group’s website
says it is trying to “raise awareness of the economic benefits
of sensible immigration reform.”  The foreign-born made up 15.5 percent of the U.S. workforce
in 2009, little changed for the third year in a row, according
to data compiled by the Department of Labor.  Muslims Targeted  Politicians hostile to migrants often target Muslims in
their policy proposals. The minority Dutch government that
depends on parliamentary support from the anti-immigrant Freedom
Party plans to ban full-face Islamic veils. A referendum held
last year in Switzerland banned the construction of minarets.  Polls show as many as 70 percent of Germans at least partly
support former Bundesbank board member  Thilo Sarrazin , who
published a book in August that said Turks and Arabs are making
Germany “dumber” and living off the welfare state.  The Sweden Democrats, which won 20 seats in the 349-member
parliament, ran a television commercial in the runup to the
Sept. 19 election showing burqa-clad women knocking over an
elderly lady as she tried to pick up her pension check.  Responding to voter concerns about access to jobs, water
and housing, Australia’s Gillard dropped predecessor  Kevin Rudd ’s “Big Australia” policy, based on Treasury predictions
of a surge of more than 50 percent in population by 2050.  Population Tripled  The Australian population has more than tripled to 22
million since 1945, mostly through immigration, according to the
Bureau of Statistics. As of June 2008, 25 percent of the
population was born overseas, including the Wales-born Gillard.  Western European countries, where women on average have
fewer than two children, will need to keep bringing in non-
European immigrants to maintain their populations, living
standards and pensions, said  Andre Sapir , an economics professor
at the Universite Libre de Bruxelles and a senior fellow at
research unit Bruegel.  “Eastern Europe is not going to be the reservoir of labor
that southern Europe ceased being in the 1970s,” he said. “It
can’t replace North Africa.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: James Hertling
at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  