-- Impala Platinum Bid for Bafokeng Unit Was at 50% Premium to Listing Price
-- B y   R o n   D e r b y
-- 2010-10-13T17:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/impala-platinum-offer-for-bafokeng-unit-was-50-premium-to-listing-price.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd.  valued
Bafokeng Rasimone Platinum Mine at just below 20 billion rand
($2.9 billion) during failed takeover talks, 50 percent more
than the price Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd. is now seeking in a
planned initial public offering.  Several analysts valued Royal Bafokeng Platinum at between
9 billion rand and 11 billion rand, Royal Bafokeng Holdings Ltd.
Chief Executive Officer  Niall Carroll  said yesterday in a
speech. Impala’s offer represented “a 50 percent premium to the
imputed initial public offering price,” Carroll said.  Anglo Platinum Ltd. , the largest producer of the metal,
vetoed a takeover that would have combined the 300,000-strong
Bafokeng nation’s Rasimone operation with rival Impala’s largest
mine, Carroll said. Impala bid for the Bafokeng Rasimone
Platinum Mine, owned 67 percent by Royal Bafokeng’s platinum arm
and with the balance held by Anglo Platinum, Carroll said.  The offer wasn’t in the best long-term interests of Anglo
Platinum’s shareholders and didn’t fit its business strategy,
the company said in an e-mailed statement today. Anglo Platinum,
which owns 15 percent of Royal Bafokeng Platinum, said its
support for the company’s listing plan “confirms our
commitment towards the creation of a truly black-owned, black-
controlled and black-operated listed platinum company.”  Anglo Platinum’s veto right ends in 2012, Carroll said in
an interview broadcast by CNBC Africa today.  List Instead  Royal Bafokeng, South Africa’s largest black-owned
platinum miner, will proceed with a previous plan to list shares
on the Johannesburg stock exchange in the final quarter of this
year, after suspending the proposals during negotiations with
Impala.  Impala is the biggest rival of Anglo Platinum, a unit of
 Anglo American Plc . The two platinum companies, and Royal
Bafokeng, produce almost all of their metal in South Africa,
which has the world’s richest platinum reserves.  The Rasimone underground mine is Royal Bafokeng Platinum’s
main asset and yields about an annual 180,000 platinum ounces in
concentrate, the company said Sept. 20. RBP is developing a 12
billion rand project on the neighboring Styldrift farm that may
raise the company’s production to 420,000 platinum ounces in
concentrate a year by 2017.  Impala spokesman  Bob Gilmour  didn’t reply to calls to his
mobile and office phones today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 