-- Import Prices in U.S. Fell in September, Reflecting Drop in Oil
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-10-13T14:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/import-prices-in-u-s-declined-0-3-in-september-rose-0-3-excluding-fuel.html
The cost of goods imported into the
U.S. fell more than forecast in September, contributing to a
slowdown in inflation that is concerning the Federal Reserve.  The 0.3 percent decrease in the  import-price index  exceeded
the 0.2 percent drop projected by the median forecast of 52
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. The 3.5 percent gain over the past
 12 months  was the smallest year-over-year increase since
November.  The cost of consumer goods made overseas has stagnated as a
lack of jobs restrains consumer spending and gives companies
like  Samsung Electronics Co.  little scope to raise prices. A 13
percent drop in the  dollar  over the past four months may keep
pushing up the value of raw materials even as the global economy
cools, one reason why Fed policy makers say there is little risk
of deflation, or a protracted drop in prices.  “Inflation is still too low and the Fed would like to see
it reaccelerate,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania. “There’s
a tremendous amount of slack in the economy.”  Stocks climbed, propelled by expectations the Fed will do
more to support growth. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.6
percent to 1,177.49 at 10:35 a.m. in New York.  Estimates of economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg ranged from a
drop of 0.8 percent to a gain of 0.5 percent. Last month’s
decrease following a 0.6 percent advance in August.  Metals, Chemicals  Prices  excluding fuel  climbed 0.3 percent, led by
industrial supplies like metals and chemicals.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Figures on producer prices are
due tomorrow and the consumer price index on Oct. 15. The
Bloomberg survey medians indicate both measures will show
smaller gains for last month.  Today’s report showed prices of consumer goods excluding
automobiles increased 0.1 percent in September and were up 0.3
percent over the past 12 months. The cost of durable
manufactured goods, like televisions and phones, was  unchanged 
last month, capping a 1.6 percent decrease since September 2009.
It was the weakest 12-month performance since November 2002.  Samsung, Asia’s biggest maker of semiconductors, flat
screens and mobile phones, last week reported profit that missed
analysts’ estimates, fueling concern the global recovery in
electronics is stalling.  Prices at Samsung  Prices of Samsung LCDs used in computers and TVs fell 7.8
percent in the third quarter, according to estimates at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The weak demand and an oversupply of
chips, panels and televisions may further pull down prices,
hurting profitability at Samsung and rivals including LG Display
Co., analysts said.  U.S. central bankers are debating the effects additional
monetary stimulus would have on prices as they try to support
the economy. The Fed’s Sept. 21 statement was the first in
almost two years of near-zero interest rates to say too-low
inflation would warrant looser monetary policy.  The Federal Open Market Committee next meets Nov. 2-3.
Minutes from their Sept. 21 meeting, released yesterday, showed
policy makers discussed “several possible approaches” to
supporting economic growth, mainly purchasing longer-term
Treasury securities. Policy makers “saw only small odds of
deflation,” according to the minutes.  The cost of goods from China dropped 0.2 percent, while
those from Japan climbed 0.1, today’s report showed.  Geithner, China  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  renewed his
call for China to let its currency rise in a speech last week to
the International Monetary Fund. Countries with big foreign
exchange reserves are distorting the global financial system, he
said.  Geithner didn’t cite China by name, instead referring to
countries whose currencies are “significantly undervalued,”
which is the phrase the U.S. has used to describe the yuan’s
relationship to the dollar. He also reiterated that promoting
growth should be the top priority for the world’s economies and
that countries should not rely on exports to the U.S. to keep
their economies healthy.  The cost of U.S. exports increased 0.6 percent after rising
0.8 percent in August, today’s report from the Labor Department
showed. Prices of farm exports climbed 2.4 percent, while those
of non-farm goods increased 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  