-- Indian Oil CFO Says Yield Decline Will Boost Competitiveness: India Credit
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-10-14T09:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/indian-oil-cfo-says-yield-decline-will-boost-competitiveness-india-credit.html
Indian Oil Corp. , the country’s
biggest state refiner, is winning the confidence of bond
investors it needs to buy energy resources and power the world’s
third fastest growing major economy.  The yield on New Delhi-based Indian Oil’s $500 million of
notes due in 2015 has tumbled to 2.9 percent since they were
issued in January at 4.82 percent. That’s a bigger drop than the
1.04 percentage-point decline in the yield on 2013 bonds of
Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore oil and gas explorer.  “Indian oil companies are looking for assets and lower
borrowing costs help raise the money and make us competitive,”
 Serangulam V. Narasimhan , Indian Oil’s finance director, said in
an interview yesterday. “We can go anytime overseas to raise
money. There is a lot of appetite.”  Lower funding costs would help Indian companies compete for
overseas purchases, challenging China as the two nations scour
the world for energy assets.  Reliance Industries Ltd.  is selling
bonds this week, while  Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  plans to borrow
$10 billion over a decade for acquisitions, taking advantage of
 record global demand  for Indian assets.  “India will become more aggressive in acquisitions
overseas as the economy continues to grow,” said  Dharmakirti Joshi , chief economist at Mumbai-based  Crisil Ltd. , the Indian
unit of Standard & Poor’s. “Cheaper debt can give Indian
companies that advantage and make them more aggressive in buying
assets.”  Reliance Borrowing  India has lost out to Chinese competitors, which can get
loans at discounted rates from state-run banks. Cnooc will pay
$1.08 billion for a one-third stake in  Chesapeake Energy Corp. ’s
Eagle Ford shale project in Texas, the biggest acquisition of a
U.S. oil and gas asset by a Chinese company, according to
company statements.  Reliance was reviewing the assets and considered investing,
three people with direct knowledge of the matter said Sept. 17.
They declined to be identified because the deliberations weren’t
announced.  Reliance, controlled by  Mukesh Ambani , Asia’s richest man,
has been more acquisitive this year, spending $3.4 billion to
buy three shale gas assets in the U.S. The explorer plans to use
proceeds from the sale of dollar-denominated bonds to refinance
loans and for investments, Moody’s Investors Service said.  India’s energy use may more than double by 2030 from 2007
to the equivalent of 833 million metric tons of oil, while
China’s demand may jump 87 percent to 2.4 billion tons,
according to the Paris-based International Energy Agency.  Spurned Bid  Indian Oil and state-run  Oil India Ltd.  bid to buy
 Gulfsands Petroleum Plc , a U.K. company with assets in Syria and
the Gulf of Mexico, in March at a valuation of about 380 million
pounds ($609 million). Gulfsands spurned the offer on March 19,
calling it “wholly inadequate.”  Indian Oil plans to buy fields in Africa as part of a $1
billion overseas investment plan, Chairman  Brij Mohan Bansal 
said in July.  State-run Chinese companies spent a record $32 billion last
year acquiring energy and resources overseas, versus India’s
single $2.1 billion investment by  ONGC , the nation’s biggest
energy explorer, to buy Imperial Energy Corp., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We aren’t happy having such low debt and would like to
have an optimum mix,”  ONGC  Chairman  R.S. Sharma  said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “There are no immediate plans to
raise money, but at some point of time, we will.”  ONGC may borrow $10 billion over the next decade to
purchase assets overseas, Sharma said earlier this year. In
September 2009,  China National Petroleum Corp.  received a $30
billion loan from China Development Bank at a discounted
interest rate to buy energy resources, according to a statement
from China National.  Rupee Gains  In India’s  corporate bond  market, the extra yield investors
demand to hold five-year company debt instead of similar-
maturity government notes has shrunk to 62 basis points from 81
in May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rupee has gained 5 percent this year, reaching 44.255
per dollar today. Inflows of money forced the government to
raise its limit on foreign holdings of debt in the currency by
50 percent last month.  The yield on India’s benchmark 10-year  bond  has climbed 16
basis points this month to 8.01 percent. Similar-maturity bonds
yield 3.4 percent in China, 7.34 percent in Russia and 12.16
percent in Brazil.  The  difference  in yields between India’s debt due in a
decade and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries was at 559 basis
points, near the high for the year and up from 374 at the start
of 2010.  Uganda Bid  China’s third-largest oil company spent at least $3.8
billion on overseas acquisitions in the past year. State-
controlled China Petrochemical Corp. bought a $4.65 billion
stake in an oil-sands project in Canada in April.  Uganda may approve Cnooc and Total SA as  Tullow Oil Plc ’s
partners in developing oil projects in the country, Patrick
Bitature, chairman of the Uganda Investment Authority, said Oct.
12. The assets include a one-third stake in three blocks in the
African nation’s Lake Albert region from Tullow. ONGC jointly
bid with Indian Oil and Oil India for the stake and lost out to
the Chinese bid, a person familiar with the negotiations said in
June, declining to be identified because the talks were private.  Indian Oil plans to sell $2.5 billion of stock to lower
debt and fund new plants, Chairman Bansal said this month.
Narasimhan said yesterday there’s no timing yet for any possible
bond sale, pending the outcome of the stock offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 