-- Industrial Securities Soars as Much as 51% on Debut of Trading in Shanghai
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-13T01:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/industrial-securities-soars-as-much-as-51-on-debut-of-trading-in-shanghai.html
Industrial Securities Co. , the
second brokerage to sell shares in an initial public offering in
China this year, jumped as much as 51 percent on its Shanghai
trading debut.  The Fujian-based company advanced to 14.38 yuan at 9:32 a.m.
local time from the IPO price of 10 yuan, after earlier rising
as high as 15.12 yuan.  The Shanghai Composite Index  lost 0.2
percent.  Industrial Securities’ IPO follows Huatai Securities Co.’s
offering in February and 12 other brokerage firms that have
listed in Shanghai or Shenzhen. Citic Securities Co., China’s
biggest securities firm, led brokerage stocks higher this month,
paring a 50 percent plunge since the start of the year on
speculation they’ll benefit from an equities rebound.  “The market revival has largely boosted securities stocks,
which had remained at depressed levels despite the rebound in
trading volumes after July,” said Chen Zhenzhi, an analyst at
Sinolink Securities Co.  The Shanghai Composite has gained 20 percent since reaching
a 15-month low in July, amid signs the nation’s economic
slowdown is stabilizing.  The  Securities Association of China  is urging securities
companies to charge brokerage fees based on total costs as part
of a guidance document released Oct. 7. The rule is aimed at
averting a price war among China’s 106 securities companies, and
may benefit larger firms with lower average costs.  Industrial Securities raised 2.63 billion yuan ($393
million) in September, selling 263 million shares at the top of
a price range marketed to investors.  -- Eva Woo . Editors:  James Gunsalus , Philip Lagerkranser  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eva Woo  in Beijing at 
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  