-- Inflation to Fall Short of Fed's Goal Through 2012, Survey Says
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2010-10-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/inflation-to-fall-short-of-fed-s-long-term-goal-through-2012-survey-shows.html
Inflation in the U.S. through 2012
will fall short of the Federal Reserve’s long-term goal as
growth and employment are slow to rebound, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which is tied to consumer
spending and excludes food and fuel costs, will climb 1.2
percent next year and 1.5 percent in 2012 on average, according
to the median forecast of economists polled from Oct. 4 to Oct.
12. Most policy makers project those prices will increase 1.7
percent to 2 percent in the long run.  Economists cut  gross domestic product  forecasts for the
next two years as a lack of jobs limits consumer spending, the
biggest part of the economy. Stocks and Treasury securities have
rallied since the Fed met last month as investors bet central
bankers will pursue large-scale asset purchases to lower
borrowing costs, spur the recovery and prevent prices for
slowing further.  Low inflation “provides the Fed with additional reason to
engage in quantitative easing,” said  John Lonski , chief
economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group in New York. “Price
growth will be limited by the moderate recovery expected in
consumer spending, and that would be in keeping with
expectations of a relatively high unemployment rate.”  The Fed will keep its benchmark interest rate on overnight
loans between banks near zero through 2011, according to the
survey median, longer than previously estimated. The rate has
been in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Fed Minutes  After its most recent meeting on Sept. 21, Fed policy
makers said too-low inflation would warrant looser monetary
policy. Minutes of the meeting, released yesterday, said central
bankers were prepared to ease “before long” and weighed
strategies for raising inflation expectations. The Fed next
meets November 2-3.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  yesterday closed at the
highest level in five months as the minutes showed policy makers
were ready to pump more cash into the economy through large-
scale asset purchases, a strategy known as quantitative easing.
The yield on the two-year note touched a record low 0.327
percent.  The world’s largest economy will expand 2.4 percent next
year, down from last month’s 2.5 percent projection and less
than the 2.7 percent forecast for this year, according to the
median estimate of 60 economists in the Bloomberg survey. In
2012, growth will accelerate to 3 percent, less than September’s
3.1 percent median forecast.  The world’s largest economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual
pace in the second quarter after expanding at a 3.7 percent rate
the previous three months, according to the Commerce Department.
The economy contracted 2.6 percent last year, the biggest
decline since 1946.  Number Surveyed  The survey showed 41 economists provided inflation
forecasts for 2011 and 27 for the following year.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, will climb at a 2 percent rate in the last three
months of this year and 2.2 percent next year, the same as
previously forecast, the survey showed. Consumer spending rose 3
percent on average over the past three decades and fell 1.2
percent last year, the biggest decrease since 1942.  Elevated joblessness will probably keep holding back
spending. Unemployment will average 9.3 percent in 2011 and 8.7
percent the following year, according to the survey. A month
ago, economists had projected a 9.2 percent average rate for
2011 and 8.3 percent for 2012.  The  jobless rate  was 9.6 percent in September for a second
month, the Labor Department said last week. Joblessness reached
a 26-year high of 10.1 percent a year ago.  Fed’s Mandate  “The Fed is definitely going to be missing its mandate in
terms of sustainable growth and full employment over the next
year to two years,” said  John Herrmann , senior fixed-income
strategist at State Street Global Markets LLC in Boston.  Levi Strauss & Co., the maker of jeans and Dockers pants,
is among companies saying that spending on advertising and
promotions to spur sales is hurting net income, which slipped 32
percent to $28 million in the quarter ended Aug. 28. Third-
quarter revenue at the San Francisco-based company climbed 6.6
percent to $1.11 billion.  “It’s still very pessimistic out there, still driven
primarily by the lack of jobs,” Levi’s Chief Financial Officer
 Blake Jorgensen  said by telephone from San Francisco yesterday.
“Consumers are clearly buying products that they need for their
day-to-day lives,” said Jorgensen, 50. “There’s not frivolous
spending in any way.”  Pessimism on the economy and jobs help explain why
Democrats are at risk of losing control of the House of
Representatives in the Nov. 2 elections.  The general Republican message of less spending, lower
taxes and repeal of the health-care overhaul is connecting with
voters in a Bloomberg National Poll. Pluralities of those polled
supported overturning the health-care measure -- President
 Barack Obama ’s signature legislative accomplishment -- and back
the “Pledge to America” that offers a road map for how
Republicans would govern if they win congressional majorities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristy Scheuble  in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  