-- Insurers May Outsource Asset Management Amid New Rules, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-10-13T10:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/insurers-may-outsource-investments-on-solvency-rules-deutsche-bank-says.html
German insurers will probably shift
more of their asset management to banks and funds as new rules
and low interest rates make it more difficult for them to
oversee investments on their own, according to  Deutsche Bank AG .  “The world of insurers’ investment management has totally
changed following the financial crisis,” said  Joerg Triesch ,
head of insurance fixed income at Deutsche Insurance Asset
Management, a unit of Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank. “We expect
more business because of capital markets’ increased complexity
as well as Solvency II and other new regulatory requirements.”  The European Union is developing a new set of rules, named
Solvency II, which is designed to align insurers’ risks with the
capital they hold to ensure clients’ claims are covered. Under
the new regulation, scheduled to come into effect in 2013,
insurers will have to set aside more capital to cover
investments in assets such as real estate and equities.  Deutsche Bank’s insurance asset management unit oversees
about 149 billion euros ($208 billion) worldwide and has about
44 billion euros in Germany, where it counts the local unit of
 Zurich Financial Services AG  among its customers. Deutsche Bank
competes with U.S. investment manager  BlackRock Inc.  and the
asset management units of insurers such as  Allianz SE .  “Especially German life insurers are increasingly seeking
alternative investments as their traditional asset mix doesn’t
cover their return guarantees promised to customers,” Triesch
said in the interview.  ‘Quite Expensive’  The country’s life insurers, such as units of Allianz and
 Munich Re ’s Ergo Versicherungsgruppe, currently guarantee
customers an average return of 3.4 percent, according to
Cologne-based insurance rating firm  Assekurata . That compares
with a 2.24 percent yield on 10-year German government bonds.  “In the current low interest-rate environment, insurers
don’t have that many alternatives to real-estate investments and
equities, which have both gotten quite expensive under Solvency
II,” Triesch said. “Collateralized loan obligations have
increasingly become a topic in discussions with non-life
insurers as well-diversified CLO portfolios weathered the
financial crisis very well.”  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return. The loans they buy are used to back
acquisitions and leveraged buyouts.  “Insurers that had already invested in CLOs before the
financial crisis, are considering building their positions while
others are currently taking a close look,” Triesch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  