-- Ipopema Hires Polish Bond Trading Team as Polkomtel, Tauron Drive Growth
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-10-13T10:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/ipopema-hires-polish-bond-trading-team-as-polkomtel-tauron-drive-growth.html
Ipopema Securities SA , Poland’s
biggest non-bank brokerage, is building a team of bond brokers
as debt sales by phone company Polkomtel SA and utility Tauron
Polska Energia SA drive a record expansion in the market.  The brokerage hired  Maciej Slomka  this month to set up a
three-person fixed-income group, working on both the primary and
the secondary market. Slomka joined after 10 years at Bank Pekao
SA, the UniCredit SpA unit that’s Poland’s second-biggest
lender, where he headed fixed-income and trading operations.  Ipopema, which has reached fourth place by stock turnover
since its brokerage started in 2006, according to Warsaw Stock
Exchange data, is expanding into bonds, seeking to benefit from
15 percent growth this year in the value of bonds outstanding.  Polish government bonds have rallied in 2010 as one of
Europe’s fastest growing economies lures investors. Poland has
the equivalent of $164.5 billion of outstanding debt in local
currency bonds, compared with $248.89 billion for Turkey and
$63.66 billion in Russia, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  “We are seeing substantial growth potential for the debt
market, both government and corporate,” Slomka, 38, said in an
interview in his Warsaw office. He declined to give any
forecasts for the unit. “Paradoxically, the credit crisis has
helped develop the corporate debt market after banks tightened
lending.”  The corporate and municipal market has grown 41 percent
from a year earlier to 58.7 billion zloty ($20.69 billion) at
the end of the second quarter, according to  Fitch Ratings .  “The offerings by large corporations that we’re hearing a
lot about now will be followed by issues from medium-sized
companies,” said Slomka.  Polkomtel, Multimedia Polska  Polkomtel SA, Poland’s largest mobile phone operator, in
August sold 1 billion zloty of five-year notes to fund
operations and possibly refinance debt. The 5.7 percent-coupon
bonds were priced to yield 170 basis points above the six-month
Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate. Cable television operator
 Multimedia Polska SA  sold 400 million zloty of five-year bonds
in May, with an annual coupon of 7.52 percent.  A joint venture of gas distributor  Polskie Gornictwo
Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA  and power utility  Tauron Polska Energia
SA  will set up in the first quarter a program to sell about 1
billion zloty of bonds, to finance construction of a 400-
megawatt power plant,  Tomasz Karas , a member of the management
board of PGNiG’s power unit, said on Sept. 30.  PGE SA, Poland’s biggest utility, is preparing sales of
bonds to raise “far more than” 2 billion zloty, Chief
Executive Officer  Tomasz Zadroga  said on July 21.  PKO Eurobonds  In addition to domestic corporate debt sales, PKO Bank
Polski SA, the country’s largest bank, yesterday sold 800
million euros ($1.11 billion) of five-year bonds. The state-
controlled lender received orders exceeding 1 billion euros for
bond, its first- ever offering in the common European currency,
Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Jakub Papierski  said yesterday.  Slomka said Ipopema is “seeing significant interest from
funds, which see that these bonds offer a decent return.”  Pension funds, among the biggest financial investors in
Poland, with 210 billion zloty of assets under management,
increased their holdings of non-treasury debt more than three-
fold over the last year, to 16.1 billion zloty in September,
according to data on the financial regulator’s  website .  The Catalyst market, created a year ago, lists 58 corporate
bond issues, with a total value of 20.1 billion zloty, according
to the exchange’s website.  Ipopema’s shares have more than tripled since the company’s
 initial public offering  at 5 zloty apiece in May 2009. The stock
gained 0.5 percent to 15.87 zloty as of 11:48 a.m. in Warsaw,
valuing the company at 459 million zloty.  Ipopema is the fourth-biggest broker on the Warsaw Stock
Exchange by stock turnover this year after Citigroup Inc.’s Bank
Handlowy SA, ING Groep NV and UniCredit SpA, according to data
on the bourse’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  