-- Iran to Prosecute Five People for Spying, Cites U.S. in Call for Vigilance
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-10-13T13:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/iran-to-prosecute-five-people-for-spying-cites-u-s-in-call-for-vigilance.html
Iran said it will prosecute five
people for spying and urged officials to prevent state secrets
from reaching the country’s enemies, including the U.S.  “Beware of individuals who do not respect national
security and may give information to the enemies,” prosecutor
Abbas Jafari-Dolatabadi told members of the judiciary in Tehran
today, according to  state television . “Enemies and the U.S. in
particular are making much effort to that end.”  Jafari-Dolatabadi said those arrested had provided
information to foreigners on Iran’s aerospace, defense and
computer technology capabilities, its judiciary and trade
issues, the broadcaster reported on its website. He didn’t give
their names or nationalities.  Iran’s leadership says the country is the target of
“psychological warfare” by Western nations that want to
discredit it. Economic pressure on Iran has increased as a
result of sanctions aimed at curbing its nuclear program. Iran
denies allegations by the U.S. and many of its allies that the
atomic work may be cover for weapons development. United Nations
sanctions against Iran in June were followed by separate U.S.
and European Union measures.  It wasn’t immediately clear whether the arrest of the five
was related to the Intelligence Ministry’s Oct. 2 announcement
that Iran had detained a number of “nuclear spies.”  Intelligence Services  Foreign intelligence services “are not solely seeking
information on aerospace and judicial matters,” Jafari-
Dolatabadi said. ‘They are active in all fields.”  Jafari-Dolatabadi also said that Ali Shakouri-Rad, a former
member of parliament, had been arrested for reasons related to
national security, according to the state-run  Iranian Students
News Agency . He isn’t one of the five facing trial.  Shakouri-Rad is a member of the Islamic Iran Participation
Front, a now-banned political party that sided with opposition
leader  Mir Hossein Mousavi , who ran against President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  in last year’s presidential vote. Shakouri-Rad was
heard in recent days discussing a government plan to cut energy
and food subsidies in a phone interview with the BBC’s Farsi
language news channel broadcast from London.  Last month, Iran said its computer networks, including the
personal computers of employees at the Bushehr nuclear power
plant, had been affected by the Stuxnet computer worm. The self-
replicating malicious software, which has infected industrial
computers in several countries, may be part of a campaign to
disrupt Iranian nuclear installations, international computer-
security researchers said Sept. 24.  Stuxnet’s programming and ability to hide itself suggest it
may have been designed by a government-sponsored organization in
the U.S. or Israel, said  Frank Rieger , technology chief at GSMK,
a manufacturer of encrypted mobile phones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net . 