-- SEC Withholding Internal Report on Goldman Sachs Suit, House's Issa Says
-- B y   P e t e r   C o o k   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-10-13T21:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/issa-says-sec-is-withholding-internal-probe-of-goldman-lawsuit.html
U.S. Representative  Darrell Issa 
accused the Securities and Exchange Commission of withholding an
internal review that evaluates whether politics drove the
agency’s April lawsuit against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.   Issa, in a letter sent to SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  today,
said he directed his staff to work with the agency to obtain an
unedited copy of the report “as soon as possible.” The SEC
rejected the request, wrote Issa, the top Republican on the
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  “Your refusal to fully cooperate with the committee’s
investigation of the commission’s actions is simply
unacceptable,” Issa wrote. The California lawmaker demanded
that the agency give him an un-redacted copy of the report by
the end of the day.  SEC Inspector General H.  David Kotz  agreed to examine the
Goldman Sachs case after Issa questioned whether the agency
timed its announcement to help President  Barack Obama  and
congressional Democrats win approval for financial-regulation
legislation. Schapiro has denied any communication with the
White House or lawmakers, and said politics play no role in SEC
enforcement actions.  SEC spokesman  John Nester  said he had no immediate comment
on Issa’s letter.  Kotz gave Schapiro’s office a copy of his report on Sept.
30, Issa wrote. SEC policies bar Kotz from sharing the document
with Issa or discussing it with the lawmaker, according to Issa.  The SEC sued Goldman Sachs April 16, accusing the Wall
Street firm of selling a mortgage security without disclosing
that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped design the asset and was
betting it would fail.  In a settlement announced in July, New York-based Goldman
Sachs agreed to pay a $300 million fine and $250 million as
restitution to investors who lost money on the deal. Goldman
Sachs didn’t admit or deny the SEC’s allegations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Cook  in Washington at 
 Pcook6@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 