-- Italian Teachers Seek Jobs, Help From Parents in Budget Squeeze
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-10-13T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/italian-teachers-losing-jobs-depend-on-parents-as-government-cuts-spending.html
Luca Piergiovanni, a 37-year-old
who’s worked as a disc jockey and bartender, thought his career
had taken shape when he was named to Italy’s  Teachers of the
Year  list for 2010. Now, he’s working part time and depends on
his parents to make ends meet.  “I’m not too proud to say it, my girlfriend has to help me
too,” said Piergiovanni, who hasn’t found a full-time teaching
assignment and took a part-time post at a school near Milan that
pays 600 euros ($837) a month.  Piergiovanni and teachers like him are being squeezed as
Italy cuts 1.4 billion euros from its education budget,
including the elimination of 70,000 school jobs. Italy spends
about 4.5 percent of its gross domestic product on education,
the second-lowest figure among industrialized countries after
Slovakia, according to the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Italy has approved 25 billion euros of budget cuts over the
next two years to convince investors it can keep Europe’s
biggest deficit under control. The extra yield that investors
demand to hold 10-year  Italian debt  rather than German bunds
reached 148.30 basis points late yesterday, down from a high of
178.04 basis points on June 8, signaling that investors are more
confident about the country’s economic prospects.  The absence of meritocracy in the education system is a
bigger problem than a shortage of cash, according to the
government. Under  new rules approved by the Education Ministry ,
teachers in the future will face more stringent standards,
including requirements of more specialized degrees, knowledge of
foreign languages and competence in new technologies.  ‘Safety Net’  Past administrations “transformed the school system into a
huge safety net,” Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said in a
Sept. 30 speech to the upper house of parliament. Hiring was
done “without concern about the quality of teachers or
teaching,” he said.  Italy’s education system is “not merit-oriented yet,”
Education Minister  Maria Stella Gelmini  told Sky TG24 television
Sept. 10, commenting on the difficulty young teachers face as
they wait for older educators to retire.  “Piergiovanni is a deserving person,” Gelmini said. “We
want to change the rules and I am dealing with this particular
case.”  The Education Ministry did not respond to repeated e-mail
and telephone requests from Bloomberg for a direct comment.  Italy wants to hire as many of the current part-timers as
possible in the next five years, the minister told Sky. That
pledge is running up against changes to the pension system.  Retirement Age  The government in June agreed to raise the retirement age
for women in public sector-jobs to 65 from 61 by 2012 to comply
with European Union rules. Italy had planned for a gradual
increase, with the full adjustment coming by 2018.  “The new rules will force female teachers to put off
retirement, making new openings even more scarce,” said Gianni
Manuzio, who helps oversee the 230,000-member  CISL Scuola ,
Italy’s biggest teachers union. “It will be an obstacle for
part-timers, in addition to the spending cuts and the policy of
failing to fill vacant positions with full-timers.”  About 82 percent of Italy’s 678,369 teachers are women,
according to the most  recent figures  published by the Education
Ministry for the 2009-2010 academic year. In that year, 84
percent of the 277,661 part-time teachers on a waiting list for
full-time jobs were women, according to a  report  presented by
the Ministry to Parliament in June.  Waiting List  Piergiovanni, who like many Italian educators has never had
a full-time contract, was one of three teachers spotlighted by
the Italian  Principals Association  and the local unit of
 Microsoft Corp.  for his project to get students at a Milan area
middle school to create emoticons based on poetry. He’s on the
waiting list for a full-time position.  Piergiovanni wasn’t invited to the Sept. 23 Teachers of the
Year ceremony in Rome. The head teacher of his former school
accepted the award for him.  On Oct. 8, about 300,000 students rallied across Italy to
 protest  education-spending cuts. They also called on the
government to give part-time teachers full-time contracts.  Piergiovanni, who didn’t attend the demonstrations, said he
was happy the students defended part-time teachers.  “Unfortunately, the government doesn’t seem to listen to
the students,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  