-- Liverpool's Dirk Kuyt May Miss Rest of Year With Injury: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-10-13T10:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/liverpool-s-dirk-kuyt-may-miss-rest-of-year-with-injury-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from European newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Kuyt’s Injury Woe  Liverpool forward  Dirk Kuyt  may be out for the rest of 2010
after tearing ankle ligaments during Holland’s 4-1 win over
Sweden in yesterday’s Euro 2012 qualifier, Dutch newspaper  De
Telegraaf  reported.  Kuyt was taken to the hospital by ambulance after
sustaining the injury when he landed on the leg of a Swedish
defender.  “It seems very serious,” Holland manager  Bert van Marwijk 
said at a news conference.  United Bid for Keeper?  Danish goalkeeper Anders Lindegaard may succeed Manchester
United’s  Edwin van der Sar  in a 5 million-pound ($8 million)
deal, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Lindegaard plays for Norwegian side Aalesunds. Former
Holland goalkeeper Van der Sar, who will celebrate his 40th
birthday later this month, is expected to retire at the end of
the season, the Mirror said.  Blackpool May Lose Varney  Blackpool may lose striker Luke Varney in the January
transfer window, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Varney, whose successful loan spell at Blackpool from Derby
includes a win over Liverpool, has a get-out clause in his
contract that allows Derby to accept offers from interested
parties.  City’s United Fan Ban  Manchester City will withhold 10 percent of tickets
allocated to Manchester United fans for next month’s match
because they consistently refuse to sit down during games, the
 Daily Mail  reported.  United supporters also stood at Eastlands last season,
ignoring safety regulations. Sunderland and Bolton have cut
United’s ticket allocation for the same reason.  Keane May Lose Ireland Spot  Robbie Keane  may lose his spot on the Republic of Ireland
team because he hasn’t played enough for his club Tottenham, the
 Daily Telegraph  quoted Ireland manager  Giovanni Trapattoni  as
saying.  Keane, 30, missed a penalty in the first half of Ireland’s
1-1 draw with Slovakia in yesterday’s Euro 2012 qualifier.  “Missing penalties is not a problem,” the paper quoted
Trapattoni as saying. “The problem is I know he is not 100
percent fit. He didn’t play like he can.”  “I could have given him a rest, I could have changed one
or two players and in the future it’s possible I could try this
situation,” the Italian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  