-- Liverpool Board Says Texas Court Order Blocks Club's Sale
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-10-14T10:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/liverpool-owners-say-court-issues-restraining-order-on-soccer-team-s-sale.html
Liverpool’s board said a temporary
restraining order obtained in Texas yesterday by owners  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett  blocked the sale of the English Premier
League soccer club to the operators of the Boston Red Sox.  The Liverpool owners are trying to stop the forced sale of
the 18-time English soccer champion and are asking for $1.6
billion in damages from their lender, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, and independent board members. State District Judge
Jim Jordan in Dallas issued the order and scheduled arguments in
the case for Oct. 25, Hicks and Gillett said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  The legal move came hours after the American pair lost a
case in London to RBS that cleared the way for a sale. Chairman
 Martin Broughton  and the other two independent directors,  Ian Ayre  and  Christian Purslow , said the order stopped them from
selling to New England Sports Ventures LLC, which agreed on Oct.
6 to buy the team for 300 million pounds ($475 million).  “The independent directors consider the restraining order
to be unwarranted and damaging and will move as swiftly as
possible to seek to have it removed,” the board members said in
an e-mailed statement.  New Hearing  A hearing is scheduled for after 2 p.m. London time before
Justice  Christopher Floyd  as Liverpool tries to block the U.S.
injunction, saying the Texas court doesn’t have jurisdiction
over the case.  Hicks and Gillett allege in their filing in the Texas court
that the directors were “acting merely as pawns of RBS, wholly
abdicating the fiduciary responsibilities that they owed in the
sale.”  Hicks and Gillett tried to stop the sale to  John W. Henry 
and  Tom Werner ’s New England group by changing the independent
directors, but  Floyd  yesterday ruled they had to reinstate the
ousted members.  Broughton  said the owners would lose about 140
million pounds if the New England group’s bid goes through.  The owners say the accepted price is too low, and that the
board ignored other bidders.  The restraining order blocks any sale and prevents RBS from
seizing or foreclosing on Liverpool’s owners. The directors
began “to take action designed to insure that Messrs. Hicks and
Gillett would be ousted as owners,” the filing said.  Hicks’s lawyer,  Steven Stodghill , said last night in an
interview that allegations made in his client’s filing “are
some of the most brazen acts alleged in many years against a
board” and said it made sense to file for a restraining order
in Texas because RBS and New England Sports Ventures do
substantial business in that state.  Jurisdiction  “We have very good basis for jurisdiction,” he said. “I
have no idea what’s going on in England right now. But I do know
that we have injunctive relief granted by a state court. I think
they would go forward at their peril.”  Henry, who flew to London for negotiations, gave a thumbs-
up sign to reporters waiting outside the London offices of
Liverpool’s lawyers as he arrived to attend a board meeting last
night.  Since their 219 million-pound leveraged buyout in 2007,
Hicks and Gillett have had disputes between themselves and have
met with fan opposition over rising debt and their failure to
build a promised new stadium.  The soccer club, a five-time European champion, is off to
its worst start in more than 50 years. The team is in 18th place
and would be relegated to the second division if the season were
to end today.  Extension  Hicks and Gillett were granted a six-month extension to
repay by lenders RBS and Wells Fargo & Co. in April, with the
agreement that the club be put up for sale and Broughton
appointed.  Hicks and Gillett have a day to pay back the 237 million-
pound loan. The bid from the New England group would repay 200
million pounds of the debt on completion.  RBS could put the club into bankruptcy. Liverpool, which
has a global fan base, would be the second team in England’s top
league to go into administration, a form of protection from
creditors. That would bring a nine-point deduction from the
Premier League.  “I think it will force the bank into a situation where
they say we might have to put this in administration and take it
from there,” said  Danny Davis , a partner at London law firm
Mishcon de Reya specializing in sports business law and
insolvency.  Other Offers  Liverpool’s relegation to the second division would cost it
millions of pounds. It already missed out on as much as 30
million pounds after failing to reach this season’s Champions
League.  Hicks and Gillett argue that the sale to the Red Sox group
isn’t the best deal available. Broughton, appointed to sell the
club by its lenders in April, said it is. Singapore billionaire
 Peter Lim  said two days ago that he made a 320 million pound
bid, trumping his earlier offer after it was matched by the
baseball team owners.  In yesterday’s filing, Hicks said he got a letter of
interest from a third potential purchaser represented by FBR
Capital Markets, offering between £375 million and £400 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  