-- Japan’s Machinery Orders Unexpectedly Gain in August
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-10-13T03:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/japanese-machinery-orders-unexpectedly-increased-10-1-in-august-from-july.html
Japanese machinery orders
unexpectedly advanced in August, a sign that a recovery in
earnings may encourage companies to spend on plant and
equipment even as the yen surges.  Factory orders rose 10.1 percent from July, the largest
increase since December, the Cabinet Office said today in
Tokyo. The median forecast of 28 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 3.9 percent decline. The data is an
indicator of business investment in three to six months.  Demand in emerging nations is prompting companies
including Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. to increase
production. Still, economists are forecasting Japan’s economy
will contract this quarter and Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  indicated today he’s prepared to expand a new 5
trillion yen ($61 billion) fund aimed at stimulating domestic
credit.  “There are concerns about the yen’s gain, along with
the slowdown in global demand and exports,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in
Tokyo. “Even so, corporate cash flows are on a V-shaped
recovery and overcapacity is easing, making it easier for
companies to increase business spending, albeit slowly.”  Stocks Advance  Stocks of machinery and electric-appliance makers
including Fanuc Ltd. rose after the report. Fanuc, Japan’s
No.1 maker of industrial robots, gained 2.3 percent and the  Nikkei 225  Stock Average rose 0.9 percent.  The yen traded at 81.85 per dollar as of 12:22 p.m. in
Tokyo, compared with 81.78 before the report was released.
The Japanese currency reached 81.39 on Oct. 11, its strongest
level since April 1995.  Hitachi Construction, the world’s biggest maker of giant
excavators, plans to produce a record number of machines in
the fiscal second half because of higher-than-estimated
demand in  China , Chief Executive Officer Michijiro Kikawa
said last week.  Japanese companies are becoming more optimistic about
their earnings outlook. Large companies revised up their
profit forecasts for the year ending March 2011, projecting
last month a 28.3 percent increase in profits compared with a
21.6 percent increase outlook three months earlier, the  Bank
of Japan ’s Tankan survey showed.  BOJ Easing  Japan’s central bank last week cut its benchmark
overnight interest rate for the first time since 2008 and
pledged to hold it at “virtually zero” until officials
foresee a sustained end to deflation. Shirakawa and his board
also unveiled a program aimed at lowering long-term borrowing
costs and the premiums on corporate debt.  “Utilizing the fund further is one probable option if
it becomes necessary in the future,” Shirakawa said in
parliament in Tokyo today.  Japan’s gross domestic product may shrink for the first
time in more than a year in the three months ended Dec. 31,
according to a survey by the government-affiliated Economic
Planning Association. The economy grew at a 1.5 percent pace
in the second quarter, half the pace of the first three
months of 2010.  ‘Bold’ Action  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today that the
government remains ready to take “bold” action including
currency intervention. Japan sold more than 2 trillion yen in
last month’s operation, its first intervention since 2004.  Sony Corp., the world’s third-largest television
manufacturer, is concerned demand growth may slow in the
second half of the financial year amid signs the global
economic recovery may be losing momentum, according to Vice
Chairman Ryoji Chubachi. He also said last week that the
yen’s appreciation is still making the company’s business
“difficult” and has been damaging it like “a body blow.”  The advance in factory orders in August was led by the
electrical machinery industry, today’s report showed. Large-
lot orders from non-ferrous metal and steel manufacturers
also boosted the figure, according to the Cabinet Office.  Holding Back  Recent reports provide evidence the yen’s strength is
holding back Japan’s economic growth: the nation’s current-
account surplus narrowed in August, industrial production
unexpectedly declined for a third month and the Tankan survey
of confidence showed large manufacturers forecast that
pessimists will outnumber optimists by year-end.  “Companies are cash rich, but they aren’t aggressive
about increasing business investment as they are cautious of
the economic outlook,” said  Norio Miyagawa , senior economist
at Mizuho Securities Research and Consulting Co. in　Tokyo.  The Cabinet Office raised its assessment on machinery
orders for the first time since April, saying “factory
orders are picking up.” From a year earlier, orders rose 24
percent in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  