-- Japan, U.S. Yields May Bottom Out on Inflation Concerns, Prudential Says
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2010-10-13T00:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/japan-u-s-bond-yields-to-bottom-out-this-year-prudential-financial-says.html
Ten-year government bond yields in
 Japan  and the U.S. are about to bottom out and rise toward year-
end as monetary easing in both nations revives inflation
concerns, said Prudential Investment Management Japan Co.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond yields dropped to a seven-
year low after the Bank of Japan on Oct. 5 decided to expand its
balance sheet by 5 trillion yen ($61 billion). Similar-dated
Treasury rates reached the lowest in more than 2 1/2 years after
the Federal Reserve signaled it may buy more bonds. Japan’s
yields are likely to gain on concern about the budget deficit,
said  Kenji Sakaguchi , Prudential’s chief investment officer.  “Concern is rising about long-term yields,” Sakaguchi,
who helps oversee 4.3 trillion yen ($53 billion) in yen-
denominated bonds, said in an interview with Bloomberg News
yesterday. As the central banks keep expanding balance sheets,
“I won’t be surprised if the market starts taking into account
inflation expectations” and fiscal risks, he said.  The market seems to have “somewhat excessively” priced in
expectations about of further Fed easing, the setting up 10-year
Treasury yields for a possible rebound, Sakaguchi said.  The yield on Japan’s 0.8 percent bond due in September 2020
was 0.85 percent yesterday, after touching 0.82 percent on Oct.
6, a level not seen since July 1, 2003. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. Ten-year U.S. yields were 2.43 percent. They
have dropped 14 basis points since the Fed said Sept. 21 it was
willing to ease monetary policy further and touched 2.33 percent
last week, the lowest level since January 2009.  Japan’s 10-year yields may trade between 0.8 percent and
1.2 percent through year-end, while similar U.S. yields may
range from 2.2 percent to 2.8 percent, Sakaguchi said. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News expect those rates to be 1.12 percent
and 2.43 percent at the end of the fourth quarter. The estimate
puts a heavier weighting on more recent forecasts.  BOJ, Fed  The BOJ said at its last meeting it would buy about 3.5
trillion yen in government debt maturing in two years or less
and use the remainder of its 5 trillion yen program to purchase
commercial paper, exchange-traded funds and real estate
investment trusts.  “The market has priced in monetary easing by the BOJ for a
very long period,” Sakaguchi said. “It’s hard to expect short-
or medium-term yields to fall further from here.”  Fed policy makers last month were prepared to ease monetary
policy “before long” and focused on purchases of Treasury
securities and boosting inflation expectations as ways to add
stimulus. Policy makers “wanted to consider further the most
effective framework for calibrating and communicating any
additional steps to provide such stimulus,” the Fed said in
minutes of the Sept. 21 session, released yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 Rswift5@bloomberg.net . 