-- Japan Signals South Korea as G-20 Head Should Stop Preventing Won Advance
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2010-10-13T07:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/japan-signals-south-korea-as-g-20-head-should-stop-preventing-won-advance.html
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  urged South
Korea to stop preventing its exchange rate from appreciating and
said competition with Japan’s rival in the technology and
automobile industries is becoming a major issue.  “In many ways, competition is a significant topic for
Japan’s relations” with South Korea, Kan said in parliament in
Tokyo today. “Guiding one’s currency lower is against the
overall coordination process. We’d like South Korea and China to
take responsible actions according to the common rules.”  The comments underscore the government’s frustration with
Asian nations devaluing their currencies to protect local
exporters. Japan’s own intervention in currency markets for the
first time in six years last month to tame the yen’s advance to
a 15-year high against the dollar brought about criticism from
policymakers in Europe and politicians in the U.S.  Foreign-exchange intervention by the two countries “is of
course a headache for Japan,” said  Tohru Sasaki , head of Japan
rates and foreign-exchange research in Tokyo at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. “As a member of the Group of Seven, it’s not that easy for
Japan to intervene because of increased global scrutiny on the
currency devaluation race.”  Kan responded to a question from opposition lawmaker
 Yasutoshi Nishimura , who criticized South Korea’s currency
intervention at the budget committee of the parliament’s lower
house.  “We have no comment on the currency-intervention issue,”
Kim Young Min, a spokesman at South Korea’s Finance Ministry
said in Gwacheon. “Regarding the G-20 leadership, we believe we
have played the role very well and we will make the Seoul Summit
successful.”  15-Year High  The won has tumbled 11 percent against the yen in the past
two years. It has also appreciated 11 percent versus the dollar,
compared with a 25 percent surge in the yen, which reached a 15-
year high against the U.S. currency this month.  During that period, South Korean manufacturers including
Samsung Electronics Co. have reported record quarterly earnings
while Japan’s Murata Manufacturing Co. has said the yen’s
advance to a 15-year high is forcing the company to cut its
workforce and reduce costs.  The won rose 1 percent to close at 1,120.70 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
advanced as much as 1.25 percent, the most since July 14. The
yen traded at 81.89 per dollar as of 4:20 p.m. in Tokyo.  ‘Ongoing Intervention’  “As host country of the coming Group of 20 meeting of
finance ministers and central bankers, South Korea will be
closely watched,” Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said
in the same parliament hearing. “It’s true that there is
ongoing intervention in the South Korean won. China is also
working toward making its currency more flexible but that
progress has been slow.”  International Monetary Fund members last week failed to
narrow differences over currencies with China accused of
undervaluing the yuan and low U.S. interest rates criticized for
flooding emerging markets with cash. Brazilian Finance Minister
Guido Mantega said last month that a “currency war” was under
way, in which economies are weakening currencies to support
exports.  Bank of Japan Osaka branch manager  Hideo Hayakawa  said in
April the yen’s exchange rate against the won, and not just the
dollar, is “a very important factor” for exporters in western
Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  