-- Jefferies Said to Hire Citigroup's Tedesco as Head of U.S. Merger Business
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2010-10-13T17:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/jefferies-said-to-hire-citigroup-s-tedesco-as-head-of-u-s-merger-business.html
Jefferies Group Inc.  hired  Michael Tedesco  from Citigroup Inc. to run its U.S. mergers and
acquisitions business and oversee global technology dealmaking,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Tedesco, 42, left his position as global head of technology
M&A at Citigroup yesterday and will join Jefferies in December,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the move
hasn’t been made public. Tedesco will remain based in San
Francisco and report to  Ben Lorello , Jefferies’s global head of
investment banking, and  John Huwiler , the global head of M&A,
the people said.  “Michael is one of the best M&A bankers on the street, so
it’s a great hire for Jefferies,” said  Chris Varelas , a partner
at Menlo Park, California-based private-equity firm Riverwood
Capital. Varelas left Citigroup in 2008 when he was the
investment bank’s global co-head of telecommunications, media
and technology.  Tedesco spent 16 years at Citigroup, where he started after
graduating from Harvard Business School. His departure follows
the resignation of  Mark Simonian , Citigroup’s global head of
telecommunications, media and technology, who left in May to
join Credit Suisse Group AG as co-head of telecommunications,
media and technology investment-banking in New York.  Mark Costiglio , a Citigroup spokesman, and  Tom Tarrant , a
Jefferies spokesman, declined to comment.  Hiring Spree  Jefferies has increased its headcount by more than 25
percent since 2008, taking advantage of the collapse of larger
investment banks. As part of the expansion, the New York-based
bank said yesterday it hired UBS AG’s  Michael Herbst  as head of
European telecommunications investment-banking in London.
Lorello joined the firm from UBS in June 2009 and led the
defection of 36 health-care bankers from UBS to Jefferies.  The firm may slow hiring if market conditions don’t
improve, Jefferies Chief Executive Officer  Rich Handler  said on
Sept. 22 after third-quarter  net income  declined 46 percent
while trading revenue slid 51 percent.  This month, Jefferies also announced it hired Credit
Suisse’s  Roland Sand  to head investment banking in Germany, and
Bank of America Corp.’s  Simon Hampton  as European head of real
estate, gaming and lodging investment-banking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 