-- Jerusalem Mayor Seeks Government Approval to Rezone City's Eastern Sector
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-10-13T19:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/jerusalem-mayor-seeks-government-approval-to-rezone-city-s-eastern-sector.html
Jerusalem Mayor  Nir Barkat  asked
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and his government to
support rezoning plans for the Palestinian areas of the city’s
eastern sector and to stay demolition orders there.  The plans extend a rezoning initiative, begun in the Arab
area of Silwan, to four new neighborhoods. The proposals were
criticized in June by Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  because of
their timing, preceding a scheduled meeting between Netanyahu
and President  Barack Obama .  “The new zoning will allow for thousands of homes to be
legalized and new ones built,” said Barkat’s spokesman, Stephan
Miller. “The planning process will be as liberal as possible so
as not to demolish existing homes.” In an e-mailed letter to
the prime minister, Barkat said previous rezoning laws led to
the illegal construction of about 20,000 homes in Arab
neighborhoods of the city. He has asked that demolition orders
against illegal homes in areas he plans to rezone be halted.  Barkat’s request comes amid an impasse over U.S.-sponsored
direct peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians, which
began Sept. 2. The negotiations stalled after Israel didn’t
renew a 10-month partial construction moratorium in West Bank
settlements that expired Sept. 26. This year, Israeli building
plans in east Jerusalem led to a disagreement with the U.S.
after an Interior Ministry committee approved construction of
1,600 new Jewish homes in the disputed territory.  Fahri Abu Diab, chairman of the area’s residents’
committee, called today’s decision “a declaration of war” that
undermines the principle of coexistence in the city.  The U.S. is trying to resolve the dispute over the
moratorium on settlement construction and keep negotiations
going. Palestinians are seeking a total building halt, including
in east Jerusalem, before returning to the talks.  Israel captured east Jerusalem from Jordan in the 1967
Middle East War and later annexed it in a move never
internationally recognized. Palestinians seek east Jerusalem as
the capital of a future state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 