-- Johnson Controls Agrees to Acquire French Auto-Fabric Maker Michel Thierry
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2010-10-13T21:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/johnson-controls-agrees-to-acquire-french-auto-fabric-maker-michel-thierry.html
Johnson Controls Inc. , the largest
U.S. auto supplier, agreed to acquire a French maker of
materials for vehicle interiors as the company expands its
automobile components unit.  The acquisition of Michel Thierry, a Laroque d’Olmes,
France-based supplier of fabric and leather for automobile
seats, will be completed by November, Milwaukee-based Johnson
Controls said today in a statement. Terms of the purchase
weren’t disclosed.  Johnson Controls said yesterday at an investor conference
in New York that its automotive unit’s backlog rose 60 percent
from a year earlier to $4 billion. Chief Financial Officer  Bruce McDonald  said the company is grabbing auto-supply companies
available for acquisition now, while most purchases in the long
term will expand the building-efficiency unit.  “Over a five-year period, we’d like M&A to be 80 percent
toward building efficiency, but right now we’re seeing more
opportunities in the automotive space,” McDonald said yesterday
in an interview. “In the short term, it will probably be more
heavily weighted toward automotive.”  Any  acquisition  of more than a $200 million to $300 million
probably would require Johnson Controls to issue debt, he said.
McDonald wouldn’t say which automotive components the company,
which had $908 million of cash on its  balance sheet  as of June,
is looking at most heavily.  Visteon Attempt  Johnson Controls tried to buy part of  Visteon Corp.’s 
interiors and electronics businesses while the company was in
bankruptcy. Johnson Controls isn’t talking with Visteon, which
emerged from bankruptcy Oct. 1, and the unit was more appealing
while Visteon was in protection from creditors, McDonald said.  “We probably have 100 ideas,” McDonald said, referring to
acquisition possibilities. “You take those 100 and maybe 10 we
pursue or get into some dialog with. Of those, two come to
fruition,” he said.  Johnson Controls rose 75 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $32.29
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The
shares have gained 19 percent this year.  Sales in the year ending Sept. 30 will be $37 billion and
profit will be $2.30 a share to $2.45 a share, Johnson Controls
said yesterday in a statement. The average estimate of 19
analysts in a Bloomberg survey was  profit  of $2.39 a share, and
16 analysts estimated sales of $36.3 billion, on average.  The company said sales will improve and margins will widen
in all three business units and that it plans $1.2 billion in
capital  investments  this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Clothier  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 