-- JPMorgan Net Beats Estimates on Lower Credit Costs
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2010-10-13T20:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/jpmorgan-third-quarter-net-rises-23-on-lower-credit-costs-beats-estimate.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  said profit
rose 23 percent, exceeding analysts’ estimates, as provisions
for bad loans shrank. Revenue slumped 11 percent.  Third-quarter  net income  climbed to $4.42 billion, or $1.01
a share, from $3.59 billion, or 82 cents, in the same period a
year earlier, the New York-based company said today in a
statement. Twenty-two analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg estimated
adjusted earnings of 88 cents a share.  Profit margins at JPMorgan, the first of the largest U.S.
banks to report earnings, narrowed as revenue from investment
banking and card services tumbled from a year earlier and non-
interest expenses rose 7 percent. Provisions for losses on
mortgages, credit cards and other consumer loans fell $5.8
billion.  “Revenues continue to be lower than I expected,”  Charles Peabody , an analyst at Portales Partners LLC, said in an
interview with  Tom Keene  and  Ken Prewitt  on Bloomberg Radio.
“You continue to see an improvement in credit quality,” he
said. “Albeit in the third quarter at a slowing pace.”  JPMorgan, the country’s second-biggest bank by  assets , said
revenue fell to $23.8 billion from $26.6 billion a year earlier.
Managed revenue, which includes the effect of some tax-exempt
securities, was $24.3 billion, compared with $28.8 billion.  “That’s a little bit disappointing,” said Peabody, who
had expected revenue closer to $25 billion.  JPMorgan fell 56 cents, or 1.4 percent to $39.84 at 4:15
p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares are down 4.4
percent this year.  Litigation, Rules  Banks are struggling to curb costs as they deal with
litigation stemming from the global credit crisis, prepare for
new capital requirements and adjust to U.S. laws banning trades
with their own money and capping credit-card charges and
overdraft fees. At JPMorgan, the overhead ratio, or expenses
divided by revenue, climbed to 60 percent from 58 percent in the
second quarter and 51 percent a year earlier.  The bank set aside $1.3 billion of additional litigation
reserves during the quarter, which includes expenses for
“mortgage-related matters,” it said in the statement.  “You know our society, right?” Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon , told analysts on a conference call today, when
asked about mounting court costs, such as from cases tied to
Bear Stearns Cos. and Washington Mutual, which the bank bought
during the credit crisis.  ‘Going to Fight’  “You know how many suits go on, the class-action suits,
the stock drop, the Bear Stearns suits, the WaMu suits, the
mortgage suits,” said Dimon, adding that not all reserves are
linked to mortgages. “And it ain’t going away, it’s becoming a
cost of doing business,” he said. “When we’re wrong, we’re
going to settle, and when we’re right, we’re going to fight.”  While provisions for future losses fell, JPMorgan charged
off $1.2 billion on home-equity and other mortgage loans as the
U.S.  unemployment rate  remained near a 26-year high. It also
took a $1.5 billion loss on bad loans it was forced to
repurchase from investors.  “We expect mortgage credit losses to remain at these high
levels for the next several quarters,” Dimon, 54, said in the
statement. “If economic conditions worsen, mortgage credit
losses could trend higher.”  Dividend Increase  JPMorgan has repurchased $2.6 billion of its own shares so
far this year. Dimon said he hopes to raise the dividend in the
first quarter of 2011.  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. , the first-and
third-largest U.S. lenders by assets, respectively, may report
adjusted earnings of $1.1 billion and $1.8 billion when they
release results next week, the Bloomberg survey shows.  Retail banking earned $907 million, compared with $1.04
billion during the second quarter and $7 million a year earlier.
The division benefited from a reduction in provisions to $1.55
billion from $3.99 billion in the prior year, JPMorgan said.  Credit-card services earned $735 million, compared with
$343 million in the prior three months and a $700 million loss a
year earlier. Revenue fell 18 percent to $4.25 billion from a
year earlier. The bank reduced provisions against future losses
in the business by $3.33 billion.  Net income in  investment banking  declined 33 percent, to
$1.29 billion in the third quarter from $1.92 billion a year
earlier, even after benefiting from the release of $142 million
in reserves back into earnings. A year ago, the bank set aside
$379 million for reserves.  Fixed Income, Underwriting  Fixed-income revenue was $3.1 billion, compared with $5
billion a year ago and $3.6 billion in the second quarter.  The investment bank contributed $1.29 billion of JPMorgan’s
$4.42 billion in net income, or 29 percent. That compares with
29 percent in the second quarter and 54 percent in the third
quarter of 2009.  Dimon kept the bank profitable throughout the financial
crisis, relying on fee income to counter loan losses in mortgage
lending and credit cards. The bank was the No. 1 underwriter of
stocks and bonds in the U.S. in the first three quarters of
2010.  Financial companies have recorded losses and writedowns of
$1.83 trillion stemming from the U.S. housing crisis and the
highest U.S. jobless rate in 26 years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The pace of new problem loans eased over
the last two quarters as the U.S. economy recovered, even after
the federal government withdrew support from financial markets.  Credit Cards  The U.S. jobless rate has held steady or fallen after
peaking at 10.1 percent in October 2009, according to U.S.
government data. It was 9.6 percent in September.  “You’re not really getting a lot of new people falling
into unemployment, which stabilizes the credit-card
portfolios,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner for the
Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank and an analyst at FBR Capital
Markets. “Credit continues to be flat this quarter.”  The Federal Reserve’s policy of keeping interest rates low,
which has helped boost bank earnings over the last six quarters,
is beginning to make it harder for the biggest U.S. lenders to
make money.  JPMorgan and other large banks, which have benefited from
record low costs of funding mortgages and other assets, face a
squeeze on net interest margins -- the difference between what
they pay to borrow money and what they get for loans and on
securities.  Analysts  say the margins may have peaked in the
first half and that banks will struggle to replace high-yielding
assets as they pay off.  The net yield on interest-earning assets -- what the bank
collects on interest on loans and securities minus what it pays
out on deposits and other borrowings -- dropped to 3.01 percent
in the third quarter, from 3.06 percent in the second quarter
and 3.1 percent a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn Kopecki  in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  