-- Zain's Nine-Month Profit Jumps Fivefold on Gains From Sale of Africa Units
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2010-10-13T13:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/kuwait-zain-third-quarter-profit-doubles-on-gains-from-sale-of-africa-unit.html
Mobile Telecommunications Co. , the
Kuwaiti phone company in talks to sell a 46 percent stake to
Etisalat, said profit rose fivefold in the first nine months of
the year as it added customers and after a gain from selling
African operations.  Net income climbed to 976 million dinars ($3.37 billion),
Mobile Telecommunications, known as Zain, said today in an e-
mailed statement. This included a 770.3 million-dinar capital
gain from selling most of Zain’s African assets to  Bharti
Airtel Ltd.  India’s largest wireless carrier completed the $9
billion purchase in June.  “In this new era of focus on our Middle East operations,
we are extremely pleased with the robust 25 percent customer
growth and 8.4 percent revenue increase, both of which are in
line with our targets for the period,” Chairman  Asaad al- Banwan  said in today’s statement.  Etisalat, as  Emirates Telecommunications Corp.  is known,
offered 1.7 Kuwaiti dinars ($6) a share for a majority stake in
Zain, Kuwait’s largest mobile-phone company. The deal is valued
at about $11 billion. Kuwait’s Kharafi Group, which is leading
the stake sale, is the second-largest shareholder in Zain, with
about 13 percent. Kuwait Investment Authority, the country’s
sovereign wealth fund, is Zain’s  largest shareholder  with 24.6
percent.  National Bank of Kuwait SAK , the country’s biggest lender,
is lead arranger and co-adviser for the planned deal with
Etisalat.  Zain shares  rose 2.9 percent to 1,420 fils at the close in
Kuwait today before the results were announced. The stock has
gained 39 percent this year.  Bharti Payments  Zain’s third-quarter net income more than doubled to 80.3
million dinars, the company said today. It had 35.3 million
customers at the end of September.  Zain received $7.9 billion from the sale to Bharti, which
excluded Morocco and Sudan, and will receive additional
payments of $1.1 billion within a year of completing the deal,
Zain said in August.  Etisalat offers telecommunications services in 18
countries in the Middle East, Africa and Asia to more than 100
million customers, according to its website. The seven emirates
of the U.A.E. make up about 86 percent of Etisalat’s sales.  Zain hasn’t yet received any request from Etisalat to
carry out due diligence, Zain Chief Operating Officer  Barrak al-Sabeeh  said on Oct. 11. The deal’s close date depends on
receipt of a letter from Etisalat, al-Sabeeh said.  National Investments Co., controlled by Kharafi, is in the
process of transferring shares it obtained for the sale of 46
percent of Zain to Etisalat, National Investment’s General
Manager  Hamad al-Ameeri  said Oct. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  