-- Newark Council Approves Plan to Sell City Buildings to Close Budget Gap
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-10-14T16:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/new-jersey-approves-newark-plan-to-sell-firehouses-to-plug-budget-deficit.html
Newark’s City Council approved a
plan to plug an $83 million budget deficit in New Jersey’s
biggest municipality by selling 17 buildings, including
firehouses.  The proposal to raise $40 million by selling the properties
passed today by a vote of 5-0, a day after it was approved by
the state’s  Local Finance Board  in Trenton.  The decision came after council members in August rejected
a plan by Mayor  Cory Booker  to raise $70 million for the $600
million 2010 budget by selling the city’s water system and
related property to a private operator. Deficit-reduction plans
also call for the firing of as many as 860 city workers next
month and a 16 percent property-tax increase.  “We as a council find ourselves in this position,”
Council President  Donald Payne  said during a meeting in Newark
City Hall. “If we didn’t do this, we’d be looking at tax
increases of anywhere from 35 percent to 42 percent.”  Under the plan, the Essex County Improvement Authority and
the Newark Parking Authority would issue $101 million in long-
term bonds to pay the city for the buildings, according to a
description of the deal prepared for the Local Finance Board
last month.  Newark will then pay about $6.5 million a year in rent for
the buildings through 2030 to cover debt service on the bonds,
according to the plan documents.  Moody’s Investors Service rates the general-obligation debt
for the city of 280,000 at A2, five levels above investment
grade. The rating has been on review for a possible downgrade
since Aug. 13 because of the budget gap.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ; 