-- New Zealand's Log Exports to China Will Surge by a Third, Wood Market Says
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2010-10-13T02:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/new-zealand-s-log-exports-to-china-will-surge-by-a-third-wood-market-says.html
Log exports from New Zealand to
China, the world’s fastest growing major economy, may surge as
much as a third by 2015 on increasing demand and an export
tariff on rival Russian lumber, according to a forecaster.  Shipments to China will climb to as much as 8 million cubic
meters in 2015 from an estimated 6 million cubic meters this
year, according to  International Wood Market Group , a Vancouver-
based researcher.  Forestry is New Zealand’s third-largest export industry,
accounting for about 10 percent of merchandise-export earnings,
Minister for Agriculture and Forestry  David Carter  said at a
conference yesterday. The country exported NZ$2.7 billion ($2
billion) in logs, wood and wood articles in the year to August
2010. China is the second-biggest market after South Korea.  China’s demand “is growing at such a fast pace, there’s no
market in the world that’s growing at that rate,” Gerry Van
Leeuwen, vice president at International Wood, said in an
interview today. Total wood demand in China may gain to 350
million cubic meters by 2015 from 250 million this year, he said.  China uses New Zealand logs for low-value products such as
scaffolding and crating, he said from Vancouver. Manufacturing
in China expanded at the fastest pace in four months in
September, while industrial output rose 13.9 percent in August.  Log shipments from Russia, China’s largest supplier, fell
40 percent between 2007 and 2009 after an export tax was
increased to 25 percent, Van Leeuwen said. “With fewer Russian
logs, China had to scramble to find new supply sources and the
one that’s benefited the most so far has been New Zealand.”  Trade between New Zealand and China has surged since the
signing of a free-trade agreement in 2008 that will eliminate
tariffs on 96 percent of New Zealand’s exports to China. China
this year became New Zealand’s second-largest trading partner
behind Australia, surpassing the U.S.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Phoebe Sedgman  in Wellington at 
 psedgman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  