-- Retail Sales in New Zealand Unexpectedly Stagnate as Core Sales Decline
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-10-13T23:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/new-zealand-retail-sales-unexpectedly-stagnated-in-august-currency-drops.html
New Zealand retail spending
unexpectedly stagnated in August and core sales fell, driving
down the local dollar and strengthening the case for the central
bank to pause interest-rate increases for the rest of the year.  Retail sales  were unchanged from July, when they fell a
revised 0.5 percent, seasonally adjusted, Statistics New Zealand
said in Wellington today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 11 economists was for a 0.3 percent gain. Core
sales, which exclude fuel outlets, auto dealers and workshops,
declined for a second month, dropping 0.6 percent.  The currency slid for the first time in three days, and
another report showed housing sales slumped in September from a
year earlier. Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor  Alan Bollard 
kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 3 percent last
month, after boosting borrowing costs at the previous two
meetings.  The data “painted a dismal picture of the Kiwi economy,”
said  Helen Kevans , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Sydney. It comes even before the impact of the nation’s worst
earthquake in eight decades and is “further reason for the RBNZ
to sit on the policy sidelines for the remainder of the year,”
she said.  Currency Drops  The New Zealand dollar weakened after the report, dropping
to 75.75 U.S. cents as of 11:44 a.m. in Wellington from 76.06
cents in New York yesterday.  Kevans forecasts the official cash rate will be left
unchanged until at least March. All 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News don’t expect Bollard to move this year.  Retail sales stalled in August even as the government
raised a sales tax on goods and services to 15 percent from 12.5
percent on Oct. 1 and as stores engaged in discounting.  Kathmandu Holdings Ltd. , a New Zealand-based retailer of
outdoor equipment, said full-year earnings fell as the company
cut prices to bolster sales, reducing profit margins.  “New Zealand was below our expected sales targets,” the
Christchurch-based company said on Sept. 24. “Consumer spending
has reduced in the second half” that ended July 31, it said.  Consumer confidence was little changed in August from an
11-month low in July, according to an index calculated by ANZ
National Bank Ltd.  House sales  fell 33 percent in September from
a year earlier, the sixth straight decline, according to figures
from the Real Estate Institute today.  Store Categories  Retail sales fell at 16 of 24 store categories surveyed in
August, today’s report showed.  Spending at hardware stores dropped for the first time in
four months, decreasing 5.8 percent. Appliance outlet sales slid
2.2 percent. Purchases from liquor outlets, department stores,
bars and cafes also declined.  Purchases at supermarkets and grocery stores, which make up
32 percent of core sales, fell 0.3 percent, the first decline
since February.  Vehicle dealer sales, the second-largest store category,
increased 2.3 percent, reversing July’s decline. Purchases from
fuel outlets rose for the first time in five months, advancing
2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  