-- NFL Prepares for Possible Work Stoppage in Spring, Owners Try to Avoid It
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2010-10-13T04:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/nfl-prepares-for-possible-work-stoppage-in-spring-owners-try-to-avoid-it.html
National Football League owners
are looking for ways to reach a new labor deal with players
and preparing for what happens if those efforts don’t
succeed, Commissioner  Roger Goodell  said.  Goodell said owners discussed the financial
contingencies of a work stoppage in the U.S.’s most-watched
television sport during their last regularly scheduled
meeting before the collective bargaining agreement with
players expires in March.  “We’re prepared for all alternatives,” Goodell said
yesterday at a news conference following the meeting in
Chicago. “Our hope and our plan is to reach a CBA before
expiration, but we’re prepared for all alternatives.”  Owners voted in May 2008 to end their collective
bargaining agreement with players after the 2010 season,
paving the way for a strike or lockout in 2011 if talks
with the NFL Players Association on a new contract fail.
Owners said the existing deal doesn’t account for costs,
such as those of building stadiums.  The union has asked for financial records supporting
the owners’ position and union leaders have said they won’t
ask players to take a pay cut so owners can make more.
Along with what portion of league revenue players should
receive, points of contention include rookie salaries, the
length of the season, health coverage and drug testing.  Indianapolis Colts owner  Jim Irsay  said he remembers
previous work stoppages and remains optimistic players and
owners can avoid another one. He declined to comment on the
day’s discussions.  “It’s taken a lot of time and energy to build the
league into what it is and we want to keep it going,”
Irsay told reporters. “From my perspective, the key thing
is you have to find a solution. That’s where both sides
are.”  ‘Lot of Work’  George Atallah, a spokesman for the union, said that
while he shares that optimism, “We have a lot of work to
do.”  The discussion of a work stoppage comes as the league
has seen record television ratings -- last year’s Super
Bowl was the most-watched program in U.S. television
history -- and at a time when more Americans call
themselves football fans than at any time since 1999,
according to The Harris Poll. About 66 percent of men and
41 percent of women said they follow the sport.  Marc Ganis , president of the Chicago-based consulting
firm Sportscorp Ltd., said owners are thinking about the
labor fight instead of celebrating the sport’s success and
popularity.  ‘Black Cloud’  “These guys ought to be patting themselves on the
back,” Ganis said in an interview. “Instead, there’s this
black cloud hanging over them.”  Goodell said it’s realistic to think that the league
and the union may reach a new agreement before March.  “Let’s get it done,” he said. “I think our fans are
focused on football and the exciting season that we’ve had
and that shows in the numbers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  