-- G-20 Should Mull Currencies Agreement, Niall Ferguson Says
-- B y   B r e t t   M i l l e r
-- 2010-10-13T02:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/niall-ferguson-says-g-20-accord-needed-to-solve-chimerica-currency-clash.html
Group of 20 leaders meeting next
month ought to discuss a plan to strengthen undervalued
currencies, similar to the Plaza Accord in 1985, Harvard
University historian  Niall Ferguson  said.  “The real currency war is actually between Chimerica --
China plus America -- and the rest of the world,” Ferguson
said in an interview at the World Knowledge Forum in Seoul.
“It would be much better to have some kind of Plaza-like
international agreement and I very much hope that at the G-20
summit in Seoul next month this will be No.1 on the agenda.”  The Plaza Agreement reached in 1985 prompted a decline
in the U.S. dollar against its Japanese and German
counterparts.  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said last month
that a “currency war” was under way, in which economies are
weakening currencies to support exports. At an International
Monetary Fund meeting this month in Washington, finance
chiefs failed to narrow differences over currencies, with
China accused of undervaluing the yuan and low U.S. interest
rates criticized for flooding emerging markets with cash.  “Currency appreciation is necessary,” Ferguson said in
the interview late yesterday. “If you insist on building up
a vast horde or dollar-denominated reserves you will create
distortions in the world economy that will ultimately come
back and bite you.”  China doesn’t need a dollar peg, because its workers are
making enormous gains in productivity, he said.  The Harvard professor said there’s a higher chance of
“sub-par growth” among developed countries rather than a
double-dip recession, with the U.S. and major industrialized
economies “bumping along a lot closer to 2 percent per annum
than they would like to be.”  Out of Ammunition  Because developed economies have already used
“massive” deficit spending and monetary easing to overcome
the economic slump, “the idea that there is some additional
ammunition in the locker to be fired again is completely
misconceived,” he said.  The U.S. needs to come up with a plan to deal with its
growing debt, Ferguson said.  “The United States is in a fiscal hole of monumental
proportions and we have to get real about this,” he said.
“At some point the Greek tragedy will happen to the United
States if it carries on in this vein.”  There will be a move out of the world’s “massive
exposure” to U.S. Treasuries into higher-yielding assets at
some point, Ferguson said, adding that the switch could be
“quite sudden.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Miller  in Seoul at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler in Tokyo at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  