-- To Sell Custom Shirts, J. Hilburn Borrows From Avon, Amazon
-- B y   J o h n   T o z z i
-- 2010-10-13T18:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/to-sell-custom-shirts-j-hilburn-borrows-from-avon-amazon.html
Shoppers cannot buy shirts by  J. Hilburn ,
a Dallas startup that sells custom-made menswear, in any retail
stores, on Amazon.com, or anywhere else online, for that matter.
Nonetheless, the company expects to sell 60,000 of them in 2010.  All the sales are made by commission sales reps who
visit customers in their homes or offices to take
measurements and suggest fabrics and styles. They send
the selections to J. Hilburn’s factory outside Macau, China,
where shirts are cut and sewn from Italian fabric. Buyers get
them in two to three weeks. J. Hilburn’s custom shirts cost
between $80 and $150, considerably less than garments of the
same fabrics at high-end stores, the founders say.  Some 30,000 shoppers have bought clothing or accessories from J.
Hilburn, and 93 percent of customers return for a second
purchase, says Hil Davis, 38, who founded the company in 2007
with Veeral Rathod, 31. The 27-employee company’s sales have
tripled each year and are projected to hit between $9 million
and $10 million in 2010, from $1 million in 2008, Davis and
Rathod say.  “Forty-six percent of consumers don’t like to shop. Most of them
are men,” says  Marshal Cohen , an apparel industry analyst at
consumer research firm NPD Group, citing the firm’s data. Davis
and Rathod, who both worked in finance before starting J.
Hilburn, say they’re trying to design a retail business for
these consumers: professional men who typically view buying
clothes as a chore, not a pastime. “No one’s really thought
about how to engage male shoppers,” says Rathod. To do so,
they’re borrowing such practices as the direct sales model of
Avon, the lean supply chains and customization pioneered by
Toyota and Dell, and the ease of shopping through Amazon.  The Best, Not the Most, Salespeople  While new customers can contact sales reps through J. Hilburn’s
website, most of J. Hilburn’s clients come through referrals,
and the majority are men who have never bought custom shirts
before because they’re too expensive, Davis says. The direct
sales model eliminates the retail markup and makes them
affordable to a broader market: Davis says they target
households earning at least $75,000 a year. The company has 650
“style advisors,” reps who make commissions of between 12
percent and 25 percent on clothing they sell. Most are women
with school-age children looking for extra income, Davis says.
As in other direct sales companies, the style advisers get a cut
of sales by other reps they recruit. Each rep can recruit only
five others directly beneath her, and the sales organizations
can be only six layers deep, so Davis says their incentive is to
find the best salespeople, not to recruit the most.  Amy Mancini started selling J. Hilburn shirts in 2008. A former
nurse and mother of three in West Boylston, Mass., Mancini says
she spends between 20 and 25 hours a week managing her team of
55 reps and visiting customers in Boston. “I have clients
anywhere from the college student ... all the way up to the
president and CEOs of Fortune 50 companies,” she says.  The in-person sales calls are crucial to getting measurements
right and making customers feel comfortable buying a garment
they can’t try on, Davis says. Customers’ measurements are
stored in J. Hilburn’s database, and the company plans to launch
an online store early next year where men can order new custom
shirts once they’ve been fitted.  Sell Before Fabricating  The model removes some traditional up-front costs of retailing.
“You’ve got a sales force you’re not paying until they sell
things. You’re not paying to make the shirt until the shirt is
sold,” says Brian O’Malley, a J. Hilburn board member and
partner at Battery Ventures, a Menlo Park (Calif.) venture
capital firm that has invested $7.25 million in J. Hilburn.  Making custom shirts brings its own inefficiencies, though. One
sewer at the company’s contract manufacturer in China can make
only five or six shirts a day. “Ralph Lauren goes in and says we
want to make 100,000 shirts,” Davis says. “When we first started
we sent over 50 shirts in a month. They’re like, why are we
doing this?” He says it took the factory a year to become
comfortable with the process, and J. Hilburn recently hired its
chief operating officer from General Electric to streamline its
manufacturing and distribution.  Along with launching online ordering next spring, Davis and
Rathod want to trim the time it takes to get clothing to
customers from up to three weeks now to two weeks or 10 days.
Among other steps, J. Hilburn wants to box individual orders
leaving the factory in China so they can be shipped directly to
customers when they reach the U.S. port. “The apparel supply
chain hasn’t been evolved since the 1920s,” says Davis. “That’s
our opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  John Tozzi  at
 jtozzi2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  