-- Obama Distant Kin to Palin, Limbaugh, Bush, Ancestry.com Says
-- B y   T r a c i   M c M i l l a n
-- 2010-10-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/obama-shares-ancestors-with-palin-bush-limbaugh-genealogy-website-shows.html
President  Barack Obama  is distantly
related to two of his most outspoken critics -- Tea Party
favorite  Sarah Palin  and talk-radio host  Rush Limbaugh  -- as
well as to former President  George W. Bush , according to a
genealogy website.  Family trees revealed Obama and Palin, the former Alaska
Governor and 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee, are 10th
cousins through common ancestor John Smith, according to
 Ancestry.com Inc.  Smith was Obama’s and Palin’s 12th-great-
grandfather. Smith, a Protestant pastor, was an early settler in
Massachusetts and was criticized by the ecclesiastical community
for supporting Quakers, said  Anastasia Tyler , a genealogist for
the website.  Obama and Limbaugh are 10th cousins once removed through
shared connections to Richmond Terrell, a Virginia settler who
came to America in the mid-1600s, Tyler said.  Palin and Obama have ties to Bush, both through links to
Samuel Hinckley. Maybe leadership “runs in the family,” the
website said, because Hinckley’s son, Thomas, became the
governor of Plymouth Colony before it united with Massachusetts.  “Despite political differences, they do have
similarities,” Tyler said. “We are all tied together; we are
all part of America.”  The family-tree website also found that Palin is related to
U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and
author and commentator  Ann Coulter . The three are tied to John
Lathrop, an Englishman who was banished to Boston after he
served as minister of an illegal church independent of the
Church of England, Tyler said.  Family Trees  Tyler’s team at Provo, Utah-based Ancestry.com works on
discovering famous relations to show how people can build family
trees from the site, using its library of 5 billion historical
records.  “We are always looking for ways to show how interesting
family history can be,” Tyler said.  The site has previously linked Obama to billionaire  Warren Buffett  and actor  Brad Pitt . It also found family ties between
Palin and  Princess Diana .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Traci McMillan  in Washington at 
 tmcmillan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 