-- Obama to Highlight Benefits of Education-Expenses Tax Credit for College
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-10-13T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/obama-to-highlight-benefits-of-education-expenses-tax-credit-for-college.html
President  Barack Obama  today will
highlight a Treasury Department report on a tax break for
education expenses that the administration says has made college
more affordable.  The American Opportunity Tax Credit, which allows families
to receive a credit of as much as $2,500 per student, was part
of last year’s economic stimulus legislation and will expire at
the end of the year. Obama proposed making it permanent in his
budget, at a cost of $58 billion over 10 years.  “Our hope is to get this extended in a way that’s
practical and timely,”  Gene Sperling , a counselor to Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner , said in a briefing for reporters.
“But we are not going to, at this moment, try to prejudge the
congressional strategy on doing so.”  Administration officials said the tax credit, which
replaced the Hope Scholarship credit, is part of a White House
effort to boost the U.S. education system and increase the
number of students graduating from college. Obama has said
raising the graduation rate is crucial to future U.S. economic
growth.  If made permanent, a student could receive a tax credit of
up to $10,000 over four years, according to the Treasury report.
The credit is phased out for married couples with more than
$160,000 in annual income.  “We think it sends a very important signal,” Sperling
said. “Whether we’re in good times or tough times, we don’t
ever want to discourage families from investing in their
children’s future and our economic future.”  Obama will meet with local college students today to
explain the impact of extending the tax credit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  