-- Lockheed Will Sell Enterprise Integration Unit to Veritas for $815 Million
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2010-10-13T20:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/lockheed-sells-eig-consulting-division-to-veritas-capital-for-815-million.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. , the world’s
largest defense company, agreed to sell one of its consulting
businesses for $815 million to  Veritas Capital , following a June
decision to divest the unit to avoid conflicts of interest.  Veritas Capital said in a statement today that it plans to
expand Enterprise Integration Group’s business. EIG, which
provides systems engineering and integration services, posted
$626 million of revenue in the 12 months ended June 30 and has
about 1,800 workers, Veritas Capital said.  The accord follows through on Bethesda, Maryland-based
Lockheed’s decision to sell or spin off most of EIG to avoid a
conflict between the unit’s military and intelligence consulting
work and the company’s role as a supplier of gear such as
satellites.  “While this transaction has been expected by investors, we
think its timeliness and healthy valuation could be viewed as
boost to Lockheed realignment efforts,”  Robert Stallard , an
analyst at RBC Capital Markets in New York, wrote in a note to
clients. Stallard rates Lockheed’s stock “sector perform.”  Lockheed advanced 57 cents to $71.12 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have declined
5.6 percent this year.  The sale is the defense company’s second-biggest of the
last 10 years, following the divestiture of IMS Corp. in 2001
for $825 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Arms Purchases  Lockheed was prompted to act by Congress’s approval of a
law in 2009 tightening rules on arms purchases in response to
lawmakers’ concerns that some contractors were advising the
Pentagon on what systems to buy while also bidding on contracts
to supply the equipment.  Veritas Capital, based in New York, describes itself on its
website as an investor in companies that “provide outsourced
services to the government -- primarily in the areas of defense
and aerospace, security and infrastructure.”  President  Robert McKeon  founded the firm in 1992 after
serving as chairman and a founding partner of Wasserstein
Perella Management Partners, according to the website.  EIG, based in Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, was one of two
units in Lockheed’s information-technology and services division
targeted for disposal in June. Also up for sale is Pacific
Architects & Engineers, a provider of embassy and disaster-
relief services. The businesses account for about 3 percent of
sales, Lockheed said at the time. Lockheed’s  revenue  in 2009 was
$45.2 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Bob Stevens  said in a June
interview that Pacific Architects customers wanted the unit to
take on construction, maintenance and security work abroad, and
that doesn’t fit Lockheed’s current strategy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  