-- Oil Rises a Second Day on Forecasts of Increased Demand, Dollar's Decline
-- B y   R a c h e l   G r a h a m
-- 2010-10-14T11:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/oil-advances-a-second-day-on-iea-demand-forecast-increase-china-s-imports.html
Crude climbed for a second day as
growing speculation the Federal Reserve will bolster the U.S.
economy stoked gains for commodities, while Saudi Arabia’s oil
minister said demand is “very healthy.”  Crude advanced as much as 1.3 percent amid evidence that
supplies are falling after the American Petroleum Institute said
U.S. inventories slid the most since July. The U.S. Department
of Energy will issue its supply report later today. Oil has
gained 2.3 percent since Oct. 12, when the Fed released minutes
showing policy makers are prepared to buy more government debt.  “The Fed’s aggressive reflationary comments are driving
all asset prices higher including commodities,” said  Kaha Kiknavelidze , managing partner at Rioni Capital Partners LLP, a
hedge fund that specializes in emerging markets. “We may be in
a commodities bull market for some time,” he said.  The November contract jumped as much as $1.11, or 1.3
percent, to $84.12 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, and was at $83.57 at 12:44 p.m. London
time. Brent crude for November settlement on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in London was up 32 cents at $84.96 a barrel.  The dollar weakened to $1.4097 against the euro from
$1.3961 yesterday. A weaker dollar boosts purchase of crude and
commodities as an alternative investment. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Oct. 4 the central bank’s first round of large-
scale asset purchases improved the economy and that further
buying is likely to help more.  OPEC Meeting  The  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries , which
accounts for about 40 percent of global crude supply, meets
today at its headquarters in Vienna.  The producer group won’t change its production quotas,
Ecuador’s Energy and Mines Minister and OPEC President  Wilson Pastor  said before the beginning of closed-door talks.  Demand for oil is “very healthy,” Saudi Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said shortly before ministers began their meeting.  “The market is well-supplied. It is an ideal situation we
are in now,” he said. “Nobody is complaining. Consumers are
happy, producers are happy. Companies are investing.”  Crude  stockpiles  dropped 4.01 million barrels last week to
362.1 million, the American Petroleum Institute said yesterday.
A U.S. Energy Department report today  may show stockpiles 
climbed 1.45 million barrels last week, according to the median
of 18 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “The draw in crude oil inventories was considerably larger
than market expectations,” said  Filip Petersson , Stockholm-
based commodities strategist at SEB AB, which trades in oil
products. “If the DOE report was to confirm the general picture
painted by the API we expect a bullish market reaction.”  Gasoline Stockpiles  Gasoline inventories fell 1.88 million barrels to 224.8
million barrels, the API said. The Energy Department report  may
show they declined  1.5 million barrels. Refiners idle processing
units for maintenance in September and October as consumption of
the motor fuel drops and before heating-oil use increases.  The Petroleum Institute collects stockpile information on a
voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Representatives from Venezuela and Libya at OPEC’s meeting
said oil at $100 a barrel would compensate producers for a slide
in the dollar without derailing the global economic recovery.  Crude at $90 to $100 won’t “harm” growth, Venezuelan
Energy and Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said. Shokri Ghanem,
chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp., also called for higher
prices even as other nations said they were content with prices
at $70 to $85 a barrel.  “No one will hate oil at $100,” Ghanem said. “The
weakening dollar is weakening our income.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  