-- Lone Star Says It's Seeking Strategic Partner for Germany's Struggling IKB
-- B y   J a n n   B e t t i n g a
-- 2010-10-13T10:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/lone-star-says-perella-hired-to-find-strategic-partner-for-germany-s-ikb.html
Lone Star Funds is looking for a
strategic partner for Germany’s  IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG ,
about two years after the U.S. private-equity firm agreed to buy
the struggling lender.  “Lone Star has decided to seek a strategic partner for IKB
to further develop IKB’s product range,” the Dallas-based
company said in an e-mailed statement today. Lone Star hired
investment bank Perella Weinberg Partners LP to carry out the
search, it said.  IKB became Germany’s first casualty of the U.S. subprime-
mortgage crisis in 2007 after investments in asset-backed
securities soured, requiring a government-led bailout. Lone Star
agreed in August 2008 to take control of the Dusseldorf-based
lender and said at the time it expected to own its holding for
at least two years. IKB later received guarantees of as much as
12 billion euros ($17 billion) from Germany’s Soffin bank-rescue
fund to help steer the bank through the global financial crisis.  “By and large, Lone Star considers the restructuring of
IKB as successfully completed,” the private-equity firm said.
The German lender sold toxic assets and has a “solid” capital
base, with a Tier 1 ratio of more than 10 percent, it said. The
Tier 1 ratio is a measure of financial strength.  Lone Star and Perella Weinberg will present potential
partners to IKB in November and a transaction might take place
in the first quarter of 2011, Lone Star’s head of European
investments,  Bruno Scherrer , told Handelsblatt newspaper. The
remarks were confirmed by Pavao Vlajcic, a Frankfurt-based
spokesman for Lone Star.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jann Bettinga  in Frankfurt at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  