-- Hong Kong's Tsang Unveils Handouts for Poor, Narrowing Record Wealth Gap
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2010-10-13T07:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/hong-kong-s-tsang-unveils-subsidies-to-lower-income-residents.html
Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  unveiled new policy initiatives to help residents who
haven’t benefitted from the territory’s economic recovery.  Responding to the widening wealth gap in Hong Kong, the
government will provide transport subsidies for commuters,
expanded medical services for the elderly, and will make housing
ownership more affordable, Tsang said in his annual policy
address broadcast live on local television.  “Social tension in Hong Kong stems partly from the wealth
gap,” Tsang said. “The wages of some low-educated and low-
skilled workers have continued to lag behind economic growth.”  The number of people living in poverty rose to a record
1.26 million, or about 18.1 percent of the total population, in
the first half of 2010 from 1.2 million last year, the Hong Kong
 Council of Social Service  said in an Oct. 3 report.  Inequality is rising even as the city with a population of
7.15 million recovers from its  deepest recession  in more than a
decade. Hong Kong’s gross domestic product climbed 6.5 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier. The wealth divide is
the most pressing social problem in Hong Kong, a July survey of
894 residents by the Chinese University of Hong Kong found.  Hong Kong plans to enact its first minimum wage this year
in an effort to address the biggest gap between rich and poor in
Asia. Industry groups say businesses cannot afford to pay more
than HK$24 ($3.10) per hour, while labor groups have called for
a wage floor of HK$33.  Home Support  Tsang said the administration will offer a subsidy for
buying a home equivalent to one half the rent paid during the
previous five years by families living in government housing.
Home prices have  surged  more than 48 percent since the beginning
of 2009.  He also announced relief for low-income commuters, offering
an annual transportation subsidy of $600 for eligible employees
for the next three years. He did not elaborate.  Tsang’s remarks come against the backdrop of deteriorating
air quality. Air pollution this year may kill more than twice
the 299 people who died during the SARS epidemic in 2003,
according to  figures  by the  University of Hong Kong ’s School of
Public Health.  Noting that buses are the biggest source of roadside
pollution, Tsang said the government will pay for the purchase
of six hybrid buses as part of a pilot program. It will also
subsidize retrofitting of existing diesel buses with catalytic
converters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frederik Balfour  in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  