-- Hong Kong Suspends Property From Residency Plan; Shares Decline
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-10-13T08:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/hong-kong-suspends-property-from-residency-plan-developers-shares-drop.html
Hong Kong will stop offering
residency to foreigners who buy property and unveiled a rent-to-
buy program, intensifying efforts to cool home prices that have
jumped almost 50 percent from 2009.  The government will temporarily remove real estate from its
Capital Investment Entrant Scheme, which was set up to encourage
foreigners to invest to gain residency, Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  said in his annual policy address today. It also will
offer 5,000 units for first-time property buyers to rent for as
long as five years before purchasing.  The government in the past year raised mortgage down
payments and increased land supply to rein in home prices that
have  surged  since the start of 2009 on the back of record-low
interest rates and an influx of Chinese buyers. The  Hang Seng
Property Index  recovered from its biggest drop since May on
optimism the measures won’t be enough to dent demand.  “Many of the policies announced today may have only
limited impact on the property market in the near term,” said
 Cusson Leung , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG. “Take the rent-to-buy scheme, a lot can still happen over
the next few years.”  The Hang Seng property gauge, which tracks the city’s seven
biggest developers, rose 0.3 percent at the 4 p.m. close of
trading, after dropping as much as 3.4 percent earlier.  Cheung Kong  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd.,  the builder controlled by Hong
Kong’s richest man  Li Ka-shing , added 0.2 percent to HK$118.70.
 Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. , the city’s biggest developer, fell
0.6 percent to HK$135.90, trimming a loss of as much as 5.4
percent.  “Many find it unnerving that property prices have kept
rising and years of hard-earned savings cannot even cover a down
payment,” Tsang told the city’s lawmakers. “They hope that the
government will help them realize their aspirations for home
ownership.”  Under the rent-to-buy program, the government will let
first-time property buyers rent for as long as five years at a
fixed amount. During the period, tenants will be eligible to use
half of the total rent paid toward a down payment to buy a home.  The first project under the plan will provide about 1,000
units in the Tsing Yi district and is expected to be completed
by 2014, Tsang said.  The government also raised the investment requirement for 
residency to HK$10 million ($1.3 million) from HK$6.5 million.  Unaffordable Housing  “Residents have complained that housing has become
unaffordable,” said  Tim Leung , who helps manage about $1.5
billion at IG Investment Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The government has
the responsibility to force the market to supply homes to the
general public.”  Home prices have surged almost 50 percent since the start
of 2009, according to  Centaline Property Agency Ltd.   The government will continue to boost land supply and
expects 61,000 new units to come onto the market in the next
three to four years, Tsang said. In the past 10 years, an
average of 18,500 new units were sold annually, he said.  Tsang also pledged to strengthen regulations of developers’
sales tactics, and the government will study requiring builders
to list saleable floor areas instead of building area when
calculating per-square-foot prices.  “These are good measures as it will give buyers a
standardized idea of the size of the flats they are buying,”
said  Wong Leung-sing , a research director at Centaline, Hong
Kong’s biggest privately-held property broker. “I think this
whole policy address is a move in the right direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  