-- OPEC to Maintain Output Quotas, Urge Compliance, Kuwaiti Oil Minister Says
-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2010-10-13T18:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/opec-to-maintain-output-quotas-urge-compliance-kuwait-s-al-sabah-says.html
OPEC members expect to keep
production quotas unchanged and will urge one another to comply
better with output limits when they meet tomorrow amid mixed
signals about the global economy, several ministers said.  “All the ministers agree that we should leave the level of
production stable,” Venezuelan Energy and Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said today in Vienna, where the  Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries  has its headquarters. Kuwaiti Oil
Minister  Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al-Sabah  said the group “will
maintain” current quotas, echoing comments from his Libyan and
Qatari counterparts.  “We’re not going to touch the quotas because my feeling is
that we should maintain whatever was decided in 2008,” Angolan
Oil Minister  Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos  said in an
interview. “We’re still gaining advantage despite the weakening
of the dollar.”  Global oil demand will be higher than previously estimated
for this year and the next, the International Energy Agency said
today in a report. Recent strength in nations of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
“contained quirks which suggest it may not persist,” according
to the Paris-based energy adviser. “It is unclear whether the
recovery will be sustainable, notably in the United States.”  While demand is slowly rising commercial stockpiles remain
high and the group should increase production only when it
becomes clear that demand is overtaking supply, said a Persian
Gulf oil official, speaking on condition of anonymity.  ‘Ideal’ Prices  OPEC, which supplies 40 percent of the world’s oil, is
benefiting as prices stay above the $70-to-$80-a-barrel band
that Saudi Arabian Oil Minister  Ali al-Naimi  said Oct. 11 is
“ideal.”  Venezuela hopes to see prices rise even further. “We’re
hoping to maintain the price and to increase that a little bit
to between $90 and $100 a barrel,” Ramirez said. Shokri Ghanem,
chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp., said he would like to
see oil rise to $100 by the end of the year.  Crude for November delivery rose for the first time in
three days. Futures gained as much as $1.78 to $83.45 in
electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It
was at $82.97 a barrel at 6:47 p.m. London time. Yesterday, the
contract fell 54 cents, or 0.7 percent, to settle at $81.67.  Oil gained 3.9 percent this month as the dollar weakened
2.4 percent against the euro. The Chinese yuan last week climbed
to its strongest level against the dollar since 1993.  Oil Consumption  Oil consumption worldwide will average 86.9 million barrels
a day in 2010 and 88.2 million barrels a day in 2011, the IEA
said in its monthly Oil Market Report. That’s 300,000 barrels a
day more than last month’s forecast for both years.  The IEA raised its estimate of the amount of oil OPEC
producers will need to provide to balance world supply and
demand. Its new estimate is an average of 29.3 million barrels a
day for next year, or 100,000 barrels a day more than the
agency’s estimate for 2010.  “We’ll be asking for more compliance,” Sheikh Ahmad said
in Kuwait as he departed for the meeting.  OPEC raised  production  by 5 percent from a five-year low in
March 2009, and now exceeds its own target by 1.9 million
barrels a day, about the same amount as Angola alone produces.
Output from the 12 members was 29.1 million barrels a day in
September, according to Bloomberg estimates.  The group agreed to a record 4.2 million-barrel-a-day cut
in production in late 2008 as global demand fell 0.6 percent,
the first decline since 1983. Members are now adhering to about
54 percent of that cut, the IEA’s monthly report showed.
Compliance reached a peak of 79 percent in March 2009, based on
Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net 
 Ayesha Daya  in Vienna at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  