-- Oprah Effect Lost on Chinese as Sydney Battles to Reverse Tourism Decline
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-10-13T23:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/oprah-effect-lost-on-chinese-as-sydney-battles-to-reverse-tourism-decline.html
The “Oprah effect” might not be
enough to help Sydney’s flagging  tourism industry .  Australia is spending more than A$3 million ($3 million) to
bring billionaire talk-show host  Oprah Winfrey  to the city for 
the first time and stage her show in December for broadcast to
U.S. audiences, Tourism Minister  Martin Ferguson  said last month.  While Winfrey is the city’s latest weapon in the battle to
lure back visitors put off by the record-high Australian dollar,
travel agents and advertising professionals say the money would
be better spent attracting the Chinese. A dearth of Mandarin-
speaking guides at icons like the  Sydney Opera House , one of
Winfrey’s show venues, is forcing tour companies to recruit
staff from China, according to the Australian Tourism Export
Council, the nation’s top body for the industry.  “Getting Oprah here isn’t going to get anyone from China
to come here,” said Peter Grasse, executive producer in Sydney
at  Curious Film , which worked on advertising campaigns that won
the Grand Prix at a Cannes media festival in June. “They should
be making multiple ads for multiple markets, like the Chinese
market, instead of putting all this effort into something so one
dimensional.”  Australia’s staging of the Oprah Winfrey Show is the latest
government effort to reverse a decline in its A$12.1 billion
tourism industry, the country’s fifth-biggest export earner. The
government has run four campaign slogans in the past five years
while the currency has risen to its highest level since the end
of exchange controls in 1983.  The Oprah Effect  Tourism Australia, the government body that markets the
nation overseas, is spending A$1.5 million to bring Winfrey for
her visit. New South Wales state, where Sydney is located, is
contributing as much as A$2 million. Sydney-based  Qantas Airways
Ltd.  will fly Winfrey and her 300-strong studio audience from
North America.  All are seeking to benefit from the so-called Oprah effect,
where endorsements from the most-watched U.S. talk show host has
turned books, cakes and beauty products into bestsellers. Her
endorsement of  Barack Obama  when he was a Senator is credited
with helping him become U.S. president.  “Oprah coming is a good thing but that won’t do anything
to encourage the Chinese,” said  Mark Ritson , an associate
professor of marketing at the University of Melbourne Business
School who works with companies such as Adidas AG and PepsiCo
Inc. “We’re not doing enough thinking about China and now is
the time to get stuck in there with so much growth to offer.”  Inbound visitor numbers to Australia are 4.5 percent below
their peak in July 2008 as the government shifted campaign
strategies, including a slogan that pleaded with potential
visitors: “Where the bloody hell are you?” according to Ritson.
The current tourism tagline is: “ There’s Nothing Like
Australia .”  U.S. Visitors Stall  While visitor numbers from the U.S. have stalled since the
global recession, China last year overtook Japan as the fourth-
largest source of tourists for Australia behind New Zealand, the
U.K. and the U.S., according to government figures. China could
rise to first, said  Christopher Brown , managing director of
 Tourism & Transport Forum , a lobby group representing 200 tour
companies.  “As the Chinese economy continues to grow, so does the
number of Chinese people who can afford to travel,” said Brown.
“It’s entirely possible China could get to number one.”  Australia’s share of Chinese outbound tourism was 1.4
percent in 2009, up from 1.3 percent in 2000, putting it 13th as
a destination, trailing Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and France,
according to data provided by  Tourism Australia .  More Flights Planned  China Southern Airlines Co. , Asia’s biggest carrier by
passenger numbers, is doubling flights to Sydney and Melbourne
and adding services to Brisbane from Oct. 31.  HNA Group Co. ,
controlled by the government of Hainan province, is seeking to
buy Australian hotels as part of plans to spend $200 million on
investments in the country, Chairman  Chen Feng  said in a July 28
interview.  This year,  54 million Chinese  people are expected to travel
abroad, according to the China Tourism Academy.  Improving support for tourists when they arrive is critical
in capturing a larger share of Chinese tourism, according to
 Matt Hingerty , managing director of the Australian Tourism
Export Council.  “We’ve got a significant shortage of Chinese speakers and
we’ve got no choice but to effectively import them,” said
Hingerty. “We still have a long way to go to get it right.”  Word of Mouth  It’s a view backed by  Tourism Australia , which said failing
to give tourists a memorable visit can do damage as “word of
mouth” can be the strongest influence on potential visitors.  “That is our best opportunity to make them advocates for
our country as the ‘on the ground’ experience is absolutely
essential,” Managing Director Andrew McEvoy said in a telephone
interview. “As the market grows the industry gets better at
adapting and we are in that phase right now.”  Winfrey will record at least two programs in Australia for
airing to U.S. audiences in early 2011, including one filmed at
the Opera House,  Ferguson said . She may also visit Melbourne and
Brisbane, Australia’s second- and third-largest cities.  “Tourism Australia pitched the concept to ‘The Oprah
Winfrey Show’ and we accepted their invitation,”  Don Halcombe ,
a spokesman for Harpo Productions Inc., Winfrey’s Chicago-based
company, said in e-mailed comments. He didn’t say if the show is
expected to boost tourism.  Tourism contributed A$12.1 billion to exports in the 12
months ended June 2009, according to the most recent  government
data . In June, the Australian government  announced plans  to
spend A$30 million marketing to Chinese tourists that live
outside the nation’s three largest cities of Shanghai, Beijing
and Guangzhou.  Public Transport  Noel Scott, a senior lecturer at the University of
Queensland’s  School of Tourism , said Chinese visitors face
similar problems to those experienced by the Japanese in the
late 1980s, such as a lack of multilingual guides or Chinese
instructions on public transport.  Jessie Lu, a 29 year-old publicist from Shanghai, met the
problem as she tried to get a taxi back to her hotel after
dinner at the Sydney Opera House. The taxi drivers didn’t want
to accept her short fare, forcing Lu and her companions to walk,
she said through an interpreter.  It’s an example of how Australia needs to spend more on
adapting to make the country a better destination for visitors
from China, according to Tourism Export Council’s Hingerty.  “We need to keep retooling ourselves to win that Chinese
market,” Hingerty said. “Oprah isn’t a strategy in itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  