-- U.S. Mortgage Applications Increase for First Time in Six Weeks
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-10-13T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/mortgage-applications-in-u-s-rise-first-time-in-six-weeks-on-lower-rates.html
The number of mortgage applications
in the U.S. climbed for the first time in six weeks as record-
low interest rates led to a surge in refinancing.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association’s  index increased 15
percent in the week ended Oct. 8, the Washington-based group
said today.  Refinancing  rose 21 percent, the most in four
months, while purchases decreased for the first time in three
weeks.  “We had a huge pickup in volume in the last week when the
rates touched an all-time new low,”  Leif Thomsen , chief
executive officer of Mortgage Master, a Walpole, Massachusetts-
based lender, said before the report. “There’s a ton of
refinancing going on, so, in simple math, we’re freeing up $3
billion to $4 billion a month for the American consumer who can
go and spend.”  Record-low rates are making it possible for owners to lower
monthly payments, freeing up cash they can use to spend on goods
and services, boost savings or pay down debt. Home buying will
take longer to rebound as  unemployment  hovers near a 26-year
high and banks restrict credit, even as the lower borrowing
costs make houses more affordable.  The mortgage bankers’ group’s purchase measure decreased
8.5 percent.  “The mortgage rates are just phenomenally low,”  George Mokrzan , senior economist at Huntington National Bank in
Columbus, Ohio, said in an interview. “That’s going to spur
some consumers to finally take the plunge and certainly help
some consumers get back into it.”  Record Low  The average rate on a  30-year  fixed mortgage fell to 4.21,
the lowest in records going back to 1990, percent from 4.25
percent, today’s report showed. At that rate, monthly payments
for each $100,000 of a loan would be about $489.60, or $48.44
less than a year ago when the rate was 5.02 percent.  The average rate on a 15-year fixed loan fell to 3.62
percent, also the lowest on record, from 3.73 percent and the
rate on a one-year adjustable decreased to 7.03 percent from
7.11 percent.  The  share of applicants  seeking to refinance a loan rose to
83.1 percent from 78.9 percent.  As interest rates and home prices fall, an overhang of
foreclosed properties will slow the recovery in the housing
market, according to  Douglas Kass , who manages equity funds at
Seabreeze Partners and was formerly a housing analyst at Kidder
Peabody & Co.  “Housing is haunted by a large shadow inventory and
certainly low interest rates have done little to improve that
situation,” Kass said yesterday in an interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  