-- Securitization Flaws May Lead Investors to Fight Mortgage Deals
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-10-13T14:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/mortgage-flaws-may-lead-investors-to-challenge-1-3-trillion-of-securities.html
Potential paperwork errors on some of
the $1.34 trillion of securitized home mortgages may give
investors an opening to challenge the legality of deals,
threatening to unnerve financial markets, according to  Joshua Rosner , managing director at Graham Fisher & Co.  Some  loans  to borrowers with poor credit before 2007 may
not have been transferred to mortgage trusts in the manner
required by their pooling and servicing agreements. That raises
questions about the ownership of the loans and may allow
investors to force lenders to buy back the securities, Rosner
wrote yesterday in a note to clients.  The failure to include MBS trust names on documents and to
properly assign loans to the trust may encourage MBS holders to
challenge the entire securitization, rather than press lenders
to take back individual loans that were fraudulently issued,
according to Rosner, whose firm advises investors and
regulators. That could set off legal fights over almost all
subprime MBS sold to investors.  “If plaintiffs bring suit it could rock the market,”
Rosner, 44, said in a telephone interview. “If courts allowed
those suits to proceed it would well feel much like 2008,” when
the bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  led to the
biggest market collapse since the Great Depression, he said.  Wall Street firms stopped selling almost all so-called
private-label mortgage-backed securities in 2007 after defaults
began to surge on loans to borrowers with poor credit. MBS
values plunged as foreclosures climbed. More than 90 percent of
mortgages are now issued by government sponsored enterprises,
such as  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, or are insured by the
federal government.  Damage to Housing  “We believe nearly every single loan transferred was
transferred to the trust in ‘blank’ name,” Rosner wrote in the
note. “That is to say the actual loans were apparently not, as
of either the cut-off or closing dates, assigned to the trust”
as required by many of the securitization agreements.  An unraveling of mortgage-backed securities could cripple a
housing market already struggling with a freeze in foreclosures
prompted by legal challenges to the documents mortgage servicers
used to seize homes of delinquent borrowers, said  Jeffrey Gundlach , chief executive officer of DoubleLine Capital LP in
Los Angeles.  “If people say that you cannot prove that you own the
loan, it could be really cumbersome to untangle,” said
Gundlach, whose firm manages $5.5 billion in investments, mostly
mortgage-backed securities. “It has the potential to spiral
into much, much more. There have been many twists and turns to
the foreclosure process since the credit crisis started and this
is one more turn of the wheel, and it can spin out of control.”  Three Scenarios  There are three possible outcomes for the crisis,  Josh Levin , a housing industry analyst with Citigroup Global Markets
Inc. in New York, wrote yesterday in a note to investors, citing
an analysis by  Adam Levitin , associate professor of law at
Georgetown University in Washington.  The best scenario is that the disputes are deemed as legal
technicalities, which would cause a one-year delay in
foreclosures. In the medium case, years of litigation will
ensue. In the worst case, the problem becomes systemic, causing
“the mortgage market to grind to a halt as title insurers
refuse to insure mortgages involving existing homes.”  Bank of America Corp.,  the largest U.S. lender, has halted
foreclosures in all 50 states amid allegations that home
seizures are being based on faulty documents.  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  and Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage unit have stopped
repossessions in the 23 states with judicial supervision over
foreclosures.  “We’re reviewing 115,000 plus or minus loan files that are
currently in the foreclosure process,”  Doug Braunstein ,
JPMorgan’s chief financial officer, said during a conference
call today. “We really believe the proper approach and response
here is to go loan by loan, file by file, customer by customer,
and if mistakes have been made, then we need to address them
individually.”  State Action  Authorities in at least nine states have begun
investigations into foreclosure practices at some of the
nation’s largest lenders. A coalition of state attorneys general
is planning to announce a multistate probe today, according to
Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum .  “All litigation in this arena is a tough slog because
there’s a lot of money at stake,” said  David Grais , a partner
in the New York law firm Grais & Ellsworth LLP.  In Florida, the state with the third-highest foreclosure
rate, homeowner challenges to bank documentation threaten to
slow the process to a crawl, derailing the state’s efforts to
streamline it.  The critical question is whether misrepresentation is
“material,” which means it would be a fact that investors
would reasonably want to know, said Grais, who currently
represents the federal Home Loan Banks of Seattle and San
Francisco and  Charles Schwab Corp . in litigation trying to force
banks including Bank of America and JPMorgan to repurchase
mortgage-backed securities because they misrepresented the
quality of the loans.  ‘Muted Effect’  Not all investment analysts expect financial chaos. The
controversy may cause a six-month delay in foreclosures and
“have a muted effect on valuation” of about $154 billion of
mortgage-backed securities,  Laurie Goodman , senior managing
director of Amherst Securities Group LP in New York, wrote in a
note to investors yesterday.  “Servicers will incur high costs both from re-processing
loans that are in the process of foreclosure as well as from
defending themselves in litigations,” Goodman wrote. “And
investors definitely need to question the cash flows they are
receiving on private-label MBS, to ascertain that they are not
paying for expenses that rightfully belong to servicers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 