-- Total Halts Operations at Its French Refineries as Workers Extend Strikes
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-13T10:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/total-halts-french-refineries-as-workers-extend-strike-update1-.html
Total SA , Europe’s biggest refiner,
started to halt operations at all its French plants because of
strike action, increasing the likelihood of fuel shortages.  The industrial action is “incompatible with the normal
functioning of the refineries,” Total spokesman  Michael Crochet-Vourey  said by telephone. The Paris-company has five
active plants in France, able to process 945,000 barrels of
crude oil a day.  “Total workers have not only decided to extend the strike
but to toughen the action by stopping all the refining
installations,” the CGT union, the largest in the industry,
said in a statement. “Since yesterday not one drop of fuel is
leaving Total sites.”  France may face fuel shortages as early as next week,
according to the Union Francaise des Industries Petrolieres, or
UFIP, an industry group. Workers at 10 of France’s 12 refineries
including all of  Total’s  six sites were on strike as part of a
national protest against President Nicolas Sarkozy’s pension
overhaul, according to the CGT.  European gasoline in northwest Europe advanced to a five-
month high last week as refineries curbed production. The motor
fuel traded as high as $769 a ton today, up 13 percent since the
strike began.  Stranded Vessels  A strike at the port of Marseille’s Fos and Lavera oil
terminals, which has blocked crude oil imports, entered its 17th
day, leaving 55 vessels stranded including 38 fuel tankers and
11 gas transporters, according to a statement from the port.  The decision was taken to stop units at Donges, Feyzin,
Grandpuits and Normandy for safety reasons and to prevent a
buildup of fuel, Crochet-Vourey said. Total had already begun
stopping operations at the La Mede refinery near Marseille
because of crude shortages, he said.  Workers at the port of Marseille are demanding changes to
the implementation of a ports reform law from 2008 and have left
dozens of vessels stranded.  Shortages  Four of the six refineries dependent on crude supplies from
Marseille may start closing at the end of this week, UFIP said.
The refiners’ group has said fuel shortages may begin in regions
near Marseille at the start of next week.  Workers at Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Gravenchon refinery,
Petroplus Holdings AG’s Reichstett plant and LyondellBasell
Industries NV plant aren’t on strike today, according to union
officials.  Workers are voting today at plants owned by LyondellBasell,
Ineos and Exxon on whether units should be shut down, according
to the CGT statement.  The Marseille docks have experienced stoppages in recent
years as unions have resisted efforts to transfer public jobs to
private companies. A 12-day strike in December 2008 cost
refineries 26 million euros ($36 million), including 15 million
euros related to vessel delays and 11 million euros in lost
revenue, UFIP estimated at the time. A strike at the oil
terminals in March 2007 lasted 17 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at   tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Will Kennedy
at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  