-- Total Halts All French Refineries as Workers Extend Strikes
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-10-13T09:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/total-halts-operations-at-french-refineries-as-workers-extend-strikes.html
Total SA, Europe’s biggest refiner,
started to halt operations at all its French plants because of
strike action, increasing the likelihood of fuel shortages.  The industrial action is “incompatible with the normal
functioning of the refineries,” Total spokesman Michael
Crochet-Vourey said by telephone. The Paris-company has five
active plants in France, able to process 945,000 barrels of
crude oil a day.  France may face fuel shortages as early as next week,
according to the Union Francaise des Industries Petrolieres, or
UFIP, an industry group. Workers at more than half France’s 12
refineries were on strike as part of a national protest against
President Nicolas Sarkozy’s pension overhaul, CGT union
representative  Charles Foulard  said today.  A strike at the port of Marseille’s Fos and Lavera oil
terminals, which has blocked crude oil imports, entered its 17th
day, according to a spokeswoman who declined to be named because
of port policy.  The decision was taken to stop units at Donges, Grandpuits
and Normandy for safety reasons and to prevent a buildup of
fuel, Crochet-Vourey said.. Total had already began stopping
operations at the La Mede refinery near Marseille because of
crude shortages caused by a port strike and this will be
extended to the nearby Feyzin plant, he said.  Crude Shortages  Total began halting Donges in western France and Grandpuits
near Paris yesterday because of the national strike and added
Normandy to the list today. It started to close La Mede on Oct.
10 because of crude shortages and began the same operation today
at Feyzin.  Workers at the port of Marseille are demanding changes to
the implementation of a ports reform law from 2008 and have left
dozens of vessels stranded.  Four of the six refineries dependent on crude supplies from
Marseille may start closing at the end of this week, UFIP said.
The refiners’ group has said fuel shortages may begin in regions
near Marseille at the start of next week.  Workers at Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Gravenchon refinery,
Petroplus Holdings AG’s Reichstett plant and LyondellBasell
Industries NV plant aren’t on strike today, according to union
officials.  The Marseille docks have experienced stoppages in recent
years as unions have resisted efforts to transfer public jobs to
private companies. A 12-day strike in December 2008 cost
refineries 26 million euros ($36 million), including 15 million
euros related to vessel delays and 11 million euros in lost
revenue, UFIP estimated at the time. A strike at the oil
terminals in March 2007 lasted 17 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  