-- Toyota Safety Audit Finds `Misunderstanding' With Suppliers
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a ,   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2010-10-14T08:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/toyota-safety-audit-finds-misunderstanding-with-suppliers.html
Toyota Motor Corp.  set out to audit
suppliers in North America following its biggest recall crisis
and discovered testing of components wasn’t as rigorous as it
expected.  Toyota is a third of the way through audits of suppliers of
“the highest priority” parts, and some suppliers believed to
be testing products four times a year were only doing so once a
year,  Dino Triantafyllos , vice president of North American
product quality, said yesterday.  “We have found areas where maybe there was a
misunderstanding about some aspects of the process,” said
Triantafyllos, who attended a global quality  meeting  today at
the carmaker’s Toyota City headquarters. “These improvements
we’re making, if we’d made them two years ago, maybe some of
these issues wouldn’t have happened.”  The world’s biggest carmaker is seeking to regain customer
trust and market share after recalling more than 8 million
vehicles globally for defects linked to unintended acceleration.
In Toyota City, it added 40 engineers and created teams to
scrutinize the designs of components, according to the company
and an outside consultant.  Closer Examination  “This crisis was a problem that came from the design-
development stage,” said  Hiroshi Osada , who leads a panel
formed by the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers to help
Toyota evaluate its efforts to boost quality.  Closer examination of components “should be able to help
prevent quality defects,” said Osada, a professor of management
at the Tokyo  Institute of Technology  and the 2009  Deming Prize 
winner for contributions to quality control.  Toyota also needs to look more carefully at the quality of
suppliers’ finances, management and ability to expand their
operations, he said.  The individual reviews in North America typically take a
few days and include checks to ensure that assembly processes,
such as arc welding of metal, are consistent. Engineers are
examining parts considered critical to vehicle safety, such as
those involved in braking and turning.  CTS Corp. , the Elkhart, Indiana-based maker of accelerator
pedal components that triggered the recalls in January, was
among the first companies reviewed under the new system.  ‘Good Relationship’  “They remain a supplier,” Triantafyllos said. “We have a
good relationship with them.”  No parts suppliers have been dropped so far, he said.  The initial reviews, covering a quarter of the suppliers in
the U.S., Canada and Mexico, uncovered no new defects. Once they
are completed, Toyota will expand them to all 700 partsmakers
there, Triantafyllos said.  With its heightened focus on quality, Toyota is reducing
the number of new development projects,  Masami Doi , a Toyota
spokesman, said without specifying the scale of the cuts.  At today’s meeting in Toyota City, the global committee
discussed progress on quality-related initiatives including a
new database created in August that gathers information from
customers and government authorities more efficiently,
spokeswoman  Shiori Hashimoto  said today.  Shares  in Toyota rose 3 percent to close at 2,930 yen in
Tokyo. The stock has declined 24 percent in 2010.  Limited Role  Until recently, Toyota’s North American operations had a
limited role in design development and quality issues for
vehicles made in Japan and sold in North America, said Steve St. Angelo , the region’s chief quality officer.  The carmaker said last week it added three chief engineers
at its technical center in Ann Arbor, Michigan, to focus on
design. It is opening more than 30 field offices gathering
quality-related data in each region, including seven in North
America.  “We now play a decisive role in quality issues in Japan-
made vehicles on the road today and vehicles being designed for
the future,” St. Angelo said.  Toyota’s U.S. sales gained 1.1 percent this year through
September, the smallest increase among the top eight carmakers,
as recalls for other quality problems spread to its Lexus brand.
The company also dropped out of the top 10 global brands ranked
annually by consulting company Interbrand.  Television Ads  The company’s  U.S. television ads  tell consumers it’s
investing $1 million an hour “to improve our technology and
your safety” and that its vehicles won the most Top Safety Pick
awards in 2010 from the  Insurance Institute for Highway Safety .  New seminars in Ann Arbor for North American suppliers to
share details about improvements to engineering and production
systems may begin by the end of the year, Triantafyllos said.  At least 30 representatives of those suppliers will attend
daylong meetings, with additional briefings at their  factories 
and by video conference.  “We’re going to strongly request the suppliers
participate,” he said.  By early next year, Toyota will create a database so North
American  suppliers  can provide updates on changes to their
processes, replacing the current paper-based system. This will
allow faster reviews to ensure parts quality isn’t affected,
Triantafyllos said.  The company’s engineers in Toyota City are also visiting
parts makers more frequently, with overseas business trips
increasing four-fold compared with before the recall crisis, Doi
said.  Foreign Suppliers  The automaker is more actively consulting foreign suppliers
on ways to customize cars for each market, said Shinzo Yotsumoto,
head of the Japan unit of  TRW Automotive Holdings Corp.  TRW,
based in Livonia, Michigan, is the world’s biggest supplier of
vehicle-safety equipment.  “Toyota’s becoming more open to overseas parts makers,”
Yotsumoto said. “Our relationship with them has become
closer.”  The company’s latest improvements made in the wake of the
recall crisis were detailed today for Chief Executive Officer
 Akio Toyoda , who linked the defects to the expansion that made
his company the world’s biggest automaker.  “We weren’t as consistent or structured about how we did
the audits,” Triantafyllos said. “The intention here is
definitely to take it to the next level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
 Yuki Hagiwara  in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue in Tokyo at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  