-- Pakistan Pledges to Attack Al-Qaeda `Epicenter of Terrorism,' Mullen Says
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-10-14T15:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/pakistan-army-planning-assault-on-al-qaeda-terror-epicenter-mullen-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s top
military adviser said Pakistan’s army has pledged to go after
militants the U.S. wants targeted in an area harboring al-Qaeda
that has become “the epicenter of terrorism.”  Navy Admiral  Mike Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, said his Pakistani counterpart, General  Ashfaq Parvez Kayani , has given assurances he will mount an offensive the U.S.
has long called for in North Waziristan along the Afghan border.  Mullen cited as evidence for his optimism Pakistan’s
offensives against the Taliban and related groups elsewhere in
the country during the past 1½ years.  “He’s committed to me to go into North Waziristan and to
root out these terrorists as well,” Mullen, 64, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Conversations with  Judy Woodruff ” to be broadcast this weekend. “He clearly knows what
our priorities are.”  Mullen said he hadn’t read Washington journalist  Bob Woodward ’s latest book on the administration’s strategy debates,
“Obama’s Wars.”  While not taking direct issue with the book’s suggestions
that the military limited Obama’s Afghanistan options during a
strategy review last year, Mullen said the military provided its
best advice.  He said the goal was to defeat al-Qaeda and ensure
Afghanistan wouldn’t again become a haven for the group as it
had been before the U.S. ousted the Taliban from power after the
Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.  “That’s how I approached my best military advice to the
president,” Mullen said.  Attacking al-Qaeda  In addition to the military campaign in Afghanistan, Obama
is relying on neighboring Pakistan to help rout al-Qaeda and
related groups that threaten troops across the border and may be
preparing further attacks in Europe or the U.S., such as the May
1 car-bomb attempt in New York’s Times Square.  Pakistan, a nuclear-armed nation struggling with an
economic crisis and newly re-established democratic rule, says
its army is stretched by the fight against militants in tribal
areas and a flood that inundated a fifth of the country in July.  It’s “just a fact of life that significant military
resources have been drawn away to help deal with this terrible
flooding situation they have,” Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
told reporters traveling with him to a meeting in Brussels today
at the headquarters of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization,
which leads the 47-nation coalition in Afghanistan.  “So the question is, at what point do they return to the
offensive,” Gates said, adding “the sooner, the better.”  North Waziristan “is the epicenter of terrorism,” Mullen
said in his interview. “It’s where al-Qaeda lives.”  Kayani, who has been an ally of Mullen, has shifted more
than 70,000 troops from the country’s border with India, its
traditional rival, to the northwest, mobilizing a total of
140,000 forces, Mullen said.  Threat to Country  “They’ve sacrificed, they’ve lost a lot of citizens and
they are really concerned, urgently concerned, about the threat
to their own country from terrorists,” Mullen said. “Two years
ago, that wasn’t the case.”  Still, Mullen didn’t give a time frame for a possible
offensive in North Waziristan. He said Kayani has primarily
targeted groups that pose an internal threat, not those the U.S.
considers most dangerous.  Mullen, who took office in October 2007, said he has
probably been to Pakistan 20 times, seeking to rebuild ties that
frayed in the 1990s.  The U.S. relationship with Pakistan “comes from what I
call a very dark hole where we left them,” Mullen said. “So to
assert certainties right now I think is a real challenge.”  Civilian Control  Pakistan’s military also is hampered by its government’s
failure to establish firm civilian control in areas where the
army has routed the Taliban, Mullen said. He cited the Swat
Valley about 250 kilometers (155 miles) north of the capital
Islamabad, where the Pakistani Army swept out guerrillas in a
10-week military campaign beginning in May 2009.  “He’s got no government to build behind” the offensives,
Mullen said. “So he’s got his forces literally pinned down in
Swat until the government can actually come in, provide the
security, the police.”  While military action by the U.S. and its allies in
Afghanistan and Pakistan has degraded al-Qaeda,  Osama bin Laden 
“is still running” the group, Mullen said.  “He’s struggled doing that to some degree over the last
couple of years,” Mullen said. Still, the threat to the U.S. is
“every bit as intense as it has been. And it’s still a threat
that needs to be eliminated.”  The war in Afghanistan is showing signs of progress in
reversing Taliban gains and strengthening legitimate
authorities, Mullen said. The U.S. is “very committed” to
beginning a troop withdrawal that Obama called for when he
authorized 30,000 additional U.S. forces last December, Mullen
said.  Transition  “I’m sure we’ll be able to start that transition,” he
said. “We don’t know exactly where that will be or how much.”  Veterans returning from that war and from Iraq will face
new battles, said Mullen, who has urged communities to embrace
their former fighters with jobs and other assistance.  Science still doesn’t know enough about traumatic brain
injuries, post-traumatic stress disorder, soaring military
suicides and homelessness, especially among female veterans,
Mullen said.  “There is a sea of goodwill out there that wants to
help,” he said. “We have to figure out how to connect with
them.”  Mullen said he has “great confidence” in Deputy National
Security Adviser  Tom Donilon , Obama’s chosen successor to
replace retired Marine Corps General  James Jones . Woodward wrote
in his book that Gates said Donilon would be “a disaster” as a
national security adviser.  Iran Sanctions  Mullen also said the latest round of sanctions by the U.S.
and the United Nations to dissuade Iran from developing nuclear
weapons is having “a very significant effect on Iran, more so
than many people anticipated, including the Iranians.”  “We need to continue to increase that pressure to get
their attention, to force them to the table,” Mullen said.
“They’re still strategically intent on having a nuclear
weapon.”  Iran continues to work with North Korea, Mullen said,
calling the Asian communist nation “the number one proliferator
of nuclear weapons technology in the world.”  On China, Mullen declined to say whether he thought the
biggest Asian economic power would provide the insight into its
military intentions that the U.S. has sought.  Gates’s meeting with his Chinese counterpart this week in
the Vietnamese capital Hanoi and the accompanying invitation to
visit Beijing will at least restore some connections, Mullen
said. U.S. officials have recently expressed more concern that
the absence of military talks between the two powers could
result in miscalculations.  “The longer that we are not in contact, I think, the more
dangerous the potential longer-term outcomes are,” Mullen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva4@bloomberg.net . 