-- PC Shipments Grew 10.5% Last Quarter Amid `Weak' School Sales, IDC Says
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-10-14T00:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/pc-shipments-grew-10-5-last-quarter-amid-weak-school-sales-idc-says.html
Global personal-computer shipments
rose 11 percent in the third quarter, a slowdown from the
previous period, as U.S. consumers put off back-to-school
purchases, according to  research firm  IDC.  Hewlett-Packard Co.  held onto its top spot, though its
market share slipped to 17.6 percent from 19.6 percent a year
earlier, IDC said today in a statement. Acer Inc. and Dell Inc.
ranked second and third. In the second quarter, industrywide
shipments rose 22 percent, IDC said in July.  Consumer sales were “tepid,” compared with previous third
quarters, when households bought new machines for school, IDC
said. By contrast, business demand climbed as companies sought
to replace aging technology and upgrade to Microsoft Corp.’s
recently released Windows 7 operating system. PC buying was
disappointing in the U.S., Europe and parts of Asia, said Jay
Chou, an analyst at Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC.  “Even in China, consumers were lukewarm early in the third
quarter,” Chou said in an interview. Some Chinese shoppers may
have been waiting to buy computers until the first week in
October, a national holiday, he said. Global shipments picked up
in September, he said.  Gartner Numbers  Worldwide third-quarter PC shipments of 89.7 million came
in below IDC’s forecast. Shipments in the U.S. increased 3.8
percent, the company said. Another research firm, Stamford,
Connecticut-based Gartner Inc., put worldwide PC growth at 7.6
percent, below its forecast of 12.7 percent.  Intel Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Paul Otellini  gave an
upbeat outlook for the industry yesterday after delivering
financial results, saying the PC market is still on course to
grow 18 percent this year. He said he doesn’t anticipate a
double-dip recession and sees 2011 as being a “pretty good” year
for computer sales.  The popularity of  Apple Inc. ’s iPad and the arrival of
other tablet computers won’t undermine PC demand, Otellini said.
Tablets may cut into PC sales “at the margin,” he said.  Apple’s U.S. computer shipments increased 24 percent,
making it the No. 3 PC supplier in the country after HP and  Dell
Inc. , IDC said. The iPad has created a “halo effect” that has
boosted Mac sales, the research firm said.  Globally,  Acer  had 13 percent of the market, pushing Dell
to third place, IDC said. Round Rock, Texas-based  Dell  had 12.4
percent. Both companies gained market share compared with a year
ago. Gartner’s worldwide rankings were the same as IDC’s, with
Lenovo Group Ltd. and AsusTek Computer Inc. rounding out the top
five.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  