-- More Weapons Face Cuts or Terminations, Mullen Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-10-13T21:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/pentagon-likely-to-cut-eliminate-more-major-weapons-programs-mullen-says.html
The U.S. Defense Department likely
will recommend in its fiscal 2012 budget additional spending
cuts or terminations in major weapons systems that are missing
cost and schedule goals, the nation’s top military official
said.  The cutbacks would follow more than 20 programs that
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  terminated or truncated in April
2009, saving what the Pentagon estimated as more than $300
billion in long-term costs.  Those were “really, really tough decisions,” Admiral
 Michael Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in
an interview during a taping of “Conversations with  Judy Woodruff ,” airing Oct. 15 on Bloomberg Television. “There will
be more cuts.”  “We’re going through that process right now,” Mullen
said. “Major programs from all the services which aren’t
performing well, which can’t get themselves under control in
terms of cost and schedule, they’re going to be looking at
either being slowed down dramatically or being eliminated.”  Defense accounted for at least 51 percent of overall
discretionary federal spending last year, according to the
Office of Management and Budget, so the military budget faces
increased pressure, including from the National Commission on
Fiscal Responsibility and Reform that President  Barack Obama 
created to identify tax and spending options to cut the deficit.  Defense Cuts  A bipartisan group of 57 representatives and senators
released a  letter  today asking the commission to consider
defense cuts.  “Are things at risk? Sure,” Air Force Chief of Staff
General  Norton Schwartz  said in an interview today. “This is a
challenging time to be a program manager.”  “If there are programs that are more costly, not occurring
as quickly as they should be, not testing well -- the bottom
line is that there will probably be less patience than there has
been over the last few years,” Schwartz said.  Mullen’s remarks are “an early indicator of what to
expect” in the budget request for fiscal 2012, which starts
next Oct. 1, said Todd Harrison, a budget analyst for the
nonpartisan  Center  for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments in
Washington.  “The Defense Department seems to be placing a greater
emphasis on cost and schedule at the expense of performance,”
he said. “This is in stark contrast to a decade ago, which
placed a premium on improved performance with little regard to
cost or schedule.”  Tightening Budget  The shift in emphasis “is not only a reflection of the
tightening budget environment but also a general dissatisfaction
with the pace and performance” of Pentagon acquisition
programs, Harrison said.  Mackenzie Eaglen , a defense analyst with the Washington-
based  Heritage Foundation  said that, coming after the round of
the April 2009 cuts and terminations, Mullen’s remarks were
“astounding.”  “There is no more low-hanging fruit in this account, and
now cuts will have to come from mostly” mature programs, she
said. “There is simply no way for the Pentagon to cut further
into the bone without having direct impact and negative
consequences on those in uniform.”  The Navy’s 55-vessel Littoral Combat Ship  program , with
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp.  competing against
 General Dynamics Corp. , of Falls Church, Virginia, is an example
of a program with early cost growth that must be corrected,
Mullen said.  Contain Costs  “If LCS is unable to contain itself in terms of cost and
schedule, then I don’t think it has much of a future,” he said.  The first two vessels under contract were initially
expected to cost about $220 million apiece. Those costs are
estimated to have at least doubled, according to the nonpartisan
Congressional Research Service.  To contain costs, the Navy is now conducting a winner-take-
all competition for the next 10 warships through 2014 and to
provide the design that would become the baseline for the entire
55-ship fleet.  The Pentagon postponed a meeting scheduled for today that
was to review the competition, Pentagon spokeswoman  Cheryl Irwin 
said.  ‘Key Capability’  Gates last year called the new ship “a key capability for
presence, stability and counterinsurgency operations in coastal
regions.”  Any weapons cuts would be on top of the planned  shift  of
$100 billion through fiscal 2015 of overhead savings to weapons
and personnel accounts. The goal is to find a way to  increase 
spending on weapons and personnel by as much as 3 percent a year
even as the Obama administration seeks to limit overall defense
spending to growth of about 1 percent a year after inflation.  “If those dollars are reinvested in programs that are
unfolding effectively, that are achieving their performance
goals, that is a better place to be,” Schwartz said.  Mullen, 64, said that the Pentagon will face pressures to
shrink even the 1 percent increase because defense spending
constitutes more than half of the annual budget that Congress
controls. Pentagon programs will make up 56 percent of
discretionary spending in fiscal 2011, according to OMB
estimates.  Budget Expectations  In an earlier Navy assignment, Mullen said, he “handled
all the money for the Navy, so since 2002-2003 I had
expectations that our budget would eventually start going down.
And that has started to happen.”  Mullen said he has tried to “prepare those around me,
originally in the Navy and now the other chiefs. And we’ve
talked an awful lot about expectations that the budget is going
to see increased pressure.”  The Pentagon also is seeking to eliminate unneeded private
service contractors and increase the use of contracts that give
defense companies greater incentive to reduce costs in exchange
for larger profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva4@bloomberg.net . 