-- TPG Capital Forms Company With Denbury's Roberts to Buy Oil, Gas Assets
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2010-10-13T16:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/tpg-capital-forms-venture-to-buy-oil-and-gas-properties-in-north-america.html
TPG Capital, the private-equity firm
that manages more than $47 billion, formed a company to buy
North American oil and gas properties, starting with an
acquisition in Mississippi.  Gareth Roberts , founder and former chief executive officer
of Denbury Resources Inc., is running the venture, Fort Worth,
Texas-based TPG said today in a statement. The unit, known as
Petro Harvester Oil & Gas, is seeking conventional exploration
and production assets, TPG said.  “Harvester represents an exciting opportunity for TPG,”
said TPG partner  Michael MacDougall . “Based on our experience
in the space, we believe the best way to achieve scale in this
market is to employ a full-time, dedicated team.”  TPG and  KKR & Co.  are among the buyout firms that have
invested in oil and gas companies, betting an economic recovery
will boost energy prices. KKR, based in New York, is funding
 David Rockecharlie , previously co-head of the energy group
 Jefferies Group Inc. , and  Claire Farley , a former adviser to the
securities firm, to scout for fuel trapped in shale formations,
coal beds and sandstone rock.  Petro Harvester’s first purchase is from Comstock Resources
Inc., which announced yesterday it was selling Mississippi
properties to an unidentified buyer for $75 million in cash. The
sale includes areas that produced an average of 1,138 barrels of
oil a day and 900,000 cubic feet of natural gas a day in the
first half of this year, Frisco, Texas-based Comstock said.  Denbury Rises  Denbury, which TPG invested in, has risen  ninefold  in a
decade as the Plano, Texas-based producer more than  doubled
output  by injecting carbon dioxide into worn-out oil fields.
Denbury is this year’s  second-best  performer in the Standard &
Poor’s index of independent exploration and production companies
behind Pioneer Natural Resources Co. Like Denbury, Petro
Harvester will acquire oil and gas fields it can revive, TPG
said.  TPG, run by billionaire  David Bonderman , didn’t say how
much capital its affiliates expect to put into the venture. TPG
in 2007 joined KKR & Co. in the $43.2 billion purchase of TXU
Corp., the biggest leveraged buyout in history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 