-- Pies’n’Thighs’ $11 Fried Chicken Is Top N.Y. Deal: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2010-10-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/pies-n-thighs-11-fried-chicken-is-top-n-y-deal-ryan-sutton.html
You can reserve a month ahead for
Momofuku Noodle Bar’s $100 fried chicken (no walk-ins) which
requires 4-8 people.  The rest of us have other options. Here are the city’s
newest places for great fried chicken, humanely produced, no
reservations needed -- and no second mortgages required.  Hill Country Chicken, the Texas-size spinoff of the
namesake Texas barbecue joint, will soon sell cans of Porkslap
Pale Ale; it already fries up white and dark meat from
antibiotic-free  Bell & Evans .  Result: A well-salted, buttermilk-brined bird with a
secret-recipe crust that actually adheres to the meat. Get the
sweet and peppery classic version. (The “Mama Els” option is
skinless, with a bland “seasoned flour” coating.)  Unfortunately, the meat is stored in ovens for assembly-
line efficiency, meaning the skin loses its crunch. Cost: $5.50
breasts, $3.50 thighs.  Rating: Good 6.0/10.  Hill Country Chicken is at 1123 Broadway. Info: +1-212-257-
6446;  http://www.hillcountrychicken.com   Lowcountry  So far, there’s no law requiring West Village restaurants
to post calorie counts, which is why I’m eating the following
life-threatening Southern treat at Lowcountry.  Chef Will Sullivan marinates a giant slab of chicken breast
in buttermilk, garlic, dijon and paprika. He then fries it up
with Cajun seasonings and sticks the juicy patty inside a split
cheddar biscuit.  Topping one: buttered red onion jam. Topping two: a mess
of white pork fat gravy, the final nail in the coffin.  It’s falsely labeled as a “small” plate and it tastes
exactly as it sounds, which is to say messy and hangover-y.
Cost: $14. Beverage pairing: a deadly mix of lemonade and sweet
tea vodka.  Rating: Very good; 7.0/10.  Lowcountry is at 142 W 10th St. Information: +1-212-255-
2330;  http://www.lowcountrynewyork.com   Peels  At Peels, a Southern-theme Bowery restaurant, I emptied a
tiny salt shaker on a “fresh kill” chicken (slaughtered
Sunday, delivered Monday) from Fossil Farms, New Jersey. All’s
well once I fixed the kitchen’s error.  The interior was moist and succulent. The outside was a
sheath of mahogany skin. The flavors were almost Indian -- a
robust, mouth-exploding mix of paprika, fennel, coriander, cumin
and black pepper. Cost: $20. The hearty crunch begged for Peels’
“corn n’oil” dark rum cocktail.  Rating: Potentially great, 7.5/10.  Peels is at 325 Bowery at 2nd St. Info: +1-646-602-7015;
 http://www.peelsnyc.com   Kyochon  Kyochon claims to be the originator of Korean-style
chicken. There are 1,000 outlets globally. Wings -- cuter and
smaller than the American Buffalo versions -- reign supreme
here. They’re double fried to order, rendering out the fat and
creating a gossamer, paper-mache crust that collapses in the
mouth like crystallized sugar.  Sauces are brushed on. Beginners will order soy-garlic.
Advanced eaters will opt for the chili glaze, whose immediate
burn isn’t quite as intense as Frank’s RedHot; rather, it creeps
up after a few bites with a low-grade, lingering sting. The
antidote? A carafe of luscious strawberry-flavored soju. One
gripe: Kyochon use Sysco-distributed Tyson chicken. They should
do better. Cost: $17.99 for 15-18 wings for sit-down dinner.  Rating: Very good; 8/10.  Kyochon is at 319 Fifth Ave. at 32nd St. Info: +1-212-725-
9292.  Pies “N” Thighs  Closed two years ago, Pies “N” Thighs -- owned and
operated by women -- reopened in a tiny Williamsburg alcove
right by Peter Luger. The result is fried chicken that’s just
about perfect. The free-range birds, from Murray’s farm in
upstate New York, are cooked with so little batter it tastes as
if you’re eating griveness with meat on the inside.  Pair it with hot sauce-topped macaroni and cheese --
vinegar zaps the nose like smelling salts and cuts through the
creamy cheddar. The noodles? Al dente. I typically rail against
cash-only joints, but I won’t here because the total cost of the
above was eleven bones.  And I couldn’t even finish. Wash down with good Brooklyn
beer.  Rating: 9.5/10. Near perfect. Pies “N” Thighs is at 166 S
Fourth Street, Brooklyn. Info: +1-347-529-6090 or
 http://piesnthighs.com   Seersucker  I’m troubled that Seersucker in Carroll Gardens cooks up
its chicken fry just once a week -- on Tuesdays -- and can sell
out by 8:30 p.m.  “It’s not fair,” I told Seersucker’s manager. His
response: “It’s very labor-intensive.” Perhaps that’s why the
bird arrived about 30 minutes after the appetizers (stellar
fried baloney sandwiches) were cleared.  The dish, a half-chicken from New York’s Bobo Farms, can
feed two. The exterior was as dark as a burnt tree-trunk. The
insides were white, soft and salted. The skin, a savory brittle
of blackened, Cajun seasonings, collapsed without too much
effort. It’s better than Momofuku’s pricey Southern-style fowl.
Outstanding.  Rating: 9.75/10. Cost: $18. Minus a quarter point because
the chef doesn’t make enough.  Seersucker is at 329 Smith St., Brooklyn. Information: +1-
718-422-0444;  http://www.seersuckerbrooklyn.com   (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 