-- Poison Puts at Record in Bondholder Defense to Blackstone: Credit Markets
-- B y   B r y a n   K e o g h   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-10-14T16:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/poison-puts-at-record-in-bondholder-defense-to-blackstone-credit-markets.html
Companies are selling debt that
protects bondholders against credit-damaging mergers at a record
pace as Blackstone Group LP, Bain Capital LLC and other buyout
firms announce takeovers at the fastest rate since 2007.  Forty-five percent of bonds sold in the U.S. and Europe by
investment-grade non-financial companies last quarter contained
a so-called poison put, compared with 40 percent in the three
months ending June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Use
of the provision, which lets investors sell debt back to the
issuer at a premium in an acquisition, has doubled since 2008.  Bondholders bracing for a return of leveraged buyouts on
companies ranging from supermarket chain  Safeway Inc.  to  Sara
Lee Corp.  are seeking protection from private-equity firms
loading a target with loans and bonds. Relative yields on debt
of an investment-grade company that’s bought and cut to junk
would soar as much as 400 basis points, or four percentage
points, as its bond prices fall, according to Barclays Capital.
That’s 150 basis points more than the jump in 2006.  “The more LBO risk there is, the more people will be
looking at protective covenants in bonds,” said  Dominik Winnicki , a Barclays credit strategist in London.  Blackstone , the world’s biggest buyout firm, said this
month it’s buying chemical company Polymer Group Inc. That
follows the New York-based firm’s attempted takeover of Dynegy
Inc. of Houston for $4.7 billion, including assumed  debt .  Dynegy Debt  Dynegy’s $1.1 billion of 7.75 percent bonds due in June
2019 trade at 68 cents on the dollar, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  The debt, which has tumbled from more than 88 cents in
January, is “disadvantaged by weak covenants that don’t include
a requirement that bonds be repurchased upon a change of
control,” Gimme Credit LLC analyst  Kimberly Noland  wrote in a
report after the deal became public.  Blackstone spokeswoman  Heather Lucania  didn’t respond to a
telephone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar maturity
government debt fell one basis point to 167 basis points, or
1.67 percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. That’s the lowest
since May 5 and down 14 basis points from Aug. 31. Yields
averaged 3.36 percent yesterday.  Reliance Offering  Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s largest company by market
value, plans to sell $1.5 billion of U.S. dollar-denominated
notes as soon as today in its first bond offering in the
currency.  The company may issue $1 billion of 10-year notes that
yield 205 basis points, or 2.05 percentage points, more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, and $500 million of 30-year bonds
at a 240 basis-point spread, according to a person familiar with
the transaction who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  A benchmark indicator of corporate credit risk in the U.S.
climbed for the third time this month.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 3.35 basis points to a mid-price of 98.85 basis points
as of 12:32 p.m. in New York, according to index administrator
Markit Group Ltd.  Poison Puts Accelerate  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, touched the lowest in
more than five months yesterday at 95.5 basis points.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The use of poison puts in investment-grade bonds
accelerated as buyout firms announced a record $1.6 trillion of
takeovers in the three years before credit markets seized up,
peaking at 44 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007.  The portion of corporate bonds with the protection began to
decline in 2008 after the U.S. economy entered the worst
recession since the Great Depression, reaching as low as 20
percent in the fourth quarter of 2008 following the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Bloomberg data show.  Demand for the covenant has increased as private-equity
firms led $39.6 billion in leveraged-buyout announcements in the
third quarter, the most since the last three months of 2007,
Bloomberg data show.  Deals are reviving as investors wager the economy is
improving and the cost of issuing high-risk debt, rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s, has dropped to the lowest since June 2007.  Leveraged Buyout  In a leveraged buyout, private-equity firms typically take
over a company by putting up one third of the purchase price in
cash and borrowing the rest.  Gymboree Corp. , the San Francisco-based children’s clothing
retailer, agreed on Oct. 11 to be bought by Bain, based in
Boston, for about $1.8 billion.  “The M&A market is certainly coming back, which would
include the potential for LBOs,” said  Greg Haendel , a money
manager who helps oversee about $8 billion in fixed-income
assets at Transamerica Investment Management in Los Angeles.  “Given the credit stresses that we’ve been through over
the past few years, I believe bondholders want as much
protection as they can get,” Haendel said.  Sara Lee  Sara Lee, the maker of Ball Park hot dogs and Hillshire
Farm meat products, sold dollar-denominated bonds for the first
time in seven years in August with an $800 million two-part
sale, Bloomberg data show. Unlike the debt sold in May 2003, the
Downers Grove, Illinois-based company included a change of
control provision in the offering.  The 5-year, 2.75 percent portion sold Aug. 30 trades at
100.4 cents on the dollar, Trace data show. Credit-default swaps
protecting against losses on the company’s debt rose to a record
after reports this month it has held talks with buyout firms.  Celgene Corp., Air Liquide SA and at least 20 other
companies issued debt with change-of-control provisions this
month, Bloomberg data show.  Celgene, the Summit, New Jersey-based maker of blood cancer
drugs, sold $1.25 billion of notes with change-of-control puts
on Oct. 4, Bloomberg data show. Air Liquide, the world’s largest
manufacturer of industrial gases, issued 456.8 million euros
($642 million) of eight-year notes with the provision on Oct. 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  