-- Polish Bond Demand Falls Short at Five-Year Auction, 1st Time Since July
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-10-13T12:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/polish-bond-demand-falls-short-at-five-year-auction-1st-time-since-july.html
Poland failed to sell the maximum of
five-year bonds offered at an auction today for the first time
since July amid investor concern inflation may accelerate.  The Finance Ministry issued 2.49 billion zloty ($880.7
million) in its first auction of notes maturing in April 2016,
compared with as much as 3 billion offered, it said in an e-
mailed statement. The average yield dropped to 5.137 percent
today from 5.209 percent at the previous  auction  of benchmark
five-year bond on Sept. 8. Demand was for 3.4 billion zloty, the
lowest since a July 17 auction, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Poland’s  annual inflation  rate rose to 2.5 percent in
September from a three-year low of 2 percent in August, the
Warsaw-based Central Statistical Office said today in a
statement following the auction. That surpassed the 2.3 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 16 economists.
Derivatives traders are betting that the central bank will raise
 borrowing costs  before the end of this year, after keeping the
main rate unchanged at a record low for 15 months, as economic
growth accelerates.  “Small demand may stem from concerns over inflation,”
said  Krzysztof Izdebski , a fixed-income trader at PKO Bank
Polski SA, Poland’s largest lender by assets.  The yield on five-year bonds rose 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 5.11 percent, headed for the highest close
since Sept. 27. Yields rise when the bond prices fall.  “It was one of the weakest auctions in a few months and
the results are rather disappointing,” said  Mateusz Szczurek ,
chief economist at ING Bank Slaski in Warsaw. “This may weaken
the secondary market.”  Foreign Investors  Societe Generale SA predicted the yield would reach 5.11
percent, ING Bank Slaski SA projected it at 5.14 percent and PKO
Bank Polski SA estimated 5.15 percent.  Polish domestic bonds have rallied this year as the economy
became the only one in the European Union to avoid a contraction
through the credit crisis while its public debt remained below
the average for EU countries.  International investors have increased their holdings of
domestic bonds to a record at the end of August, buying more in
the first eight months of this year than in the previous five
full years, according to Finance Ministry  data . The demand
helped cover 88 percent of government borrowing needs for 2010,
according to  Piotr Marczak , head of the ministry’s public debt
department.  Three-month forward-rate agreement, the money market
contracts used to speculate on changes in interest rates, are
trading at 4.14 percent, or 42 basis points higher than the
current three-month  Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate  of 3.72
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic expansion  accelerated to 3.5 percent in the second
quarter, the fastest pace since 2008, even as consumer prices
increased at the slowest pace in three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  