-- Polish Inflation Quickens More Than Forecast, Making Rate Rise More Likely
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2010-10-13T15:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/polish-inflation-quickens-more-than-forecast-making-rate-rise-more-likely.html
Poland’s annual  inflation rate  rose
more than expected last month on surging food prices, increasing
chances the central bank will raise interest rates this month.  The rate rose to 2.5 percent after dipping to a three-year
low of 2 percent in July and August, the Warsaw-based Central
Statistical Office said today. That matches the central bank’s
inflation target and compares with a median forecast of 2.3
percent in a Bloomberg survey of 16 economists.  “The data show that consumer prices are still in a gradual
rising trend,”  Anna Zielinska-Glebocka , a member of the central
bank’s Monetary Policy Council, said by phone. “There is still
a large degree of uncertainty about the price outlook.”  The central bank left its  key interest rate  at a record
low 3.5 percent for the 15th month Sept. 29, citing moderate
wage and inflation pressure. Economists forecast inflation would
accelerate in September as lower domestic output and global
price increases drove up the cost of grain and produce. Prices
will keep rising in November and December, a Bloomberg survey of
seven economists shows.  The council holds its next policy meeting Oct. 26-27, when
policy makers will review updated projections for inflation and
gross domestic product.  Rate Increase Forecast  “With inflation at the inflation target mid-point and
expected to move upwards, we expect the National Bank of Poland
to hike rates for the first time at its upcoming meeting,” said
 Anders Svendsen , chief economist at Nordea Bank in Copenhagen.
“A new inflation report including a new inflation projection
will be discussed at the meeting and will also be key for the
decision.”  Svendsen sees inflation accelerating to close to 3.5
percent by the end of the first quarter.  The zloty strengthened to as much has 3.9442 per euro after
the inflation report from 3.9552 before the publication. It
traded at 3.9317 at 4:50 p.m. in Warsaw, up 0.7 percent on the
day, the biggest gain among the 25 emerging-markets currency
tracked by Bloomberg. Bonds fell, pushing the yield on the
October 2012 bond to 4.69 percent, up 7 basis points on the day.
One basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Consumer prices rose 0.6 percent on the month, led by a 2
percent increase in food, according to the statistical office.
September vegetable prices rose 11.8 percent from the previous
month. Sugar advanced almost 10.7 percent and flour 6.9 percent,
pushing the price of bread and flour products up 5.9 percent.  Not Automatic  The report “doesn’t mean an automatic interest rate
increase” because inflation accelerated due to food prices,
Monetary Policy Council member  Andrzej Kazmierczak  told the PAP
newswire.  Derivatives traders boosted bets the central bank will
raise  borrowing costs  before the end of this year after the
report. Three-month forward-rate agreements, money market
contracts used to speculate on changes in rates, rose to trade
at 4.24 percent, or 42 basis points higher than the three-month
Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The spread was 36 basis points yesterday.  “It’s going to be a very stormy discussion and while
there’s no foregone conclusion, we think rates will go up,”
said  Piotr Kalisz , chief economist at Citibank Handlowy in
Warsaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
 Katya Andrusz  in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  