-- Polish Yields to Drop at Five-Year Auction as Foreigners Beat Local Funds
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-10-13T08:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/polish-yields-to-drop-at-five-year-auction-as-foreigners-beat-local-funds.html
Poland may sell five-year bonds at
the lowest yield since May as the government reduces borrowing
and international investor demand climbs to a record, according
to  PKO Bank Polski SA , ING Bank Slaski SA and Societe Generale
SA.  The government will auction between 2 billion zloty ($701
million) and 3 billion zloty of a new series of bonds maturing
in April 2016. Societe Generale predicted a 5.11 percent average
yield, while ING projected it at 5.14 percent and PKO estimated
5.15 percent, making it the lowest since the  sale  of the current
benchmark five-year bond on May 12. Bank Pekao SA projects a
yield ranging from 5.14 percent to 5.16 percent.  International investors have increased their holdings of
Polish domestic bonds to a record, buying more in the first
eight months of this year than in the previous five full years,
according to Finance Ministry  data . Demand for debt from one of
Europe’s fastest-growing economies helped cover 88 percent of
government borrowing needs for 2010, according to  Piotr Marczak ,
head of the Finance Ministry’s public debt department. The
government will seek to sell the smallest amount of domestic
bonds this quarter.  “The pickup in non-resident holdings is a sign of
confidence of foreign investors in local bonds,” said  Esther Law , an emerging-market fixed-income strategist at Societe
Generale in London. “It’s not just a question of diversifying
away from the euro periphery to Poland. There is something real
about Poland that people like.”  Rally  Polish domestic bonds have rallied this year as the economy
became the only one in the European Union to avoid a contraction
through the credit crisis while its public debt remained below
the average for EU countries. Last month, the government sold
bonds in euros at yields below those of higher-rated Spain. The
yield on five-year bonds was little changed at 5.06 percent as
of 10:03 a.m. in Warsaw.  Foreign investors increased holdings of zloty-denominated
debt by a record 11.5 billion zloty to 124.6 billion zloty in
August, making them the second-biggest holders after local
banks, Finance Ministry  data show . In July, their holdings
exceeded the amount of debt held by Polish pension funds for the
first time since May 2007.  Pension funds, among the largest financial investors in
Poland with 210 billion zloty under management, increased the
amount of assets held in cash almost fourfold from May through
September to 8.38 billion zloty, according to data on the
financial regulator’s website. The yield on  10-year bonds  has
fallen 12 basis points in the period to 5.50 percent, according
to an index of bonds compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘A Bit Trapped’  Some Polish fund managers “may have been thinking that the
situation on the market will worsen so they sold the bonds,”
said  Arkadiusz Urbanski , a fixed-income analyst at Bank Pekao SA
in Warsaw. “They are now a bit trapped.”  Poland’s gross domestic product is likely to expand by 3.4
percent in 2010, tying with Germany as the fastest-growing of
major European economies including Spain, France, Italy, the
U.K. and the Netherlands, according to European Commission
estimates.  Economic expansion  accelerated to 3.5 percent in the second
quarter, the fastest pace since 2008, even as consumer prices
increased at the slowest pace in three years. The  inflation  rate
probably increased to 2.3 percent in September from 2 percent in
August, the statistics office may say at 2 p.m. in Warsaw,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 16
economists.  ‘Long Haul’  “Bonds should withstand the impact of this news with
relative calm,”  Grzegorz Ogonek , an economist at ING in Warsaw,
wrote in a note to clients. “The scale of this recent inflow is
keeping the fixed-income market stable as these investors are
here for the long haul probably.”  Derivative traders are betting that borrowing costs will
rise this year, according to money-market contracts. The three-
month forward-rate agreement traded at 4.14 percent, or 42 basis
points higher than the current three-month  Warsaw Interbank
Offered Rate  of 3.72 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The spread, or differential, has narrowed from 50
basis points on Sept. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  