-- Potash Corp. Board Evaluates `Several' Alternatives to BHP Bid, Doyle Says
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2010-10-13T20:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/potash-corp-board-evaluates-several-alternatives-to-bhp-bid.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
fending off a $40 billion hostile offer from  BHP Billiton Ltd. ,
said it’s studying alternatives to the bid amid rising prices
for agricultural commodities.  “We are evaluating several alternatives for our company --
a process that is active and ongoing,” Chief Executive Officer
 Bill Doyle  said in a letter to employees included in a filing
and dated yesterday. “We believe that a robust process, in
which multiple alternatives are considered, is the best way to
ensure the best possible outcome for our stakeholders.”  Sinochem Group, China’s largest fertilizer trader and cited
by analysts as a likely counter bidder, may struggle to get
state financial backing for a takeover, two people with
knowledge of the matter said last week. The Ontario Teachers’
Pension Plan is in talks with Temasek Holdings Pte about a
possible bid, the Sunday Times reported Oct. 10.  Potash Corp., the world’s largest producer of its namesake
crop nutrient, in August rejected Melbourne-based BHP’s offer as
too low and said it’s seeking other bids. Doyle said in the
filing the company is unable to provide specific details on
“potential options.”  Potash Corp., based in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, pledged in
a separate statement today to relocate executives responsible
for legal affairs, human resources and investor relations to its
home province from company offices in suburban Chicago.  Saskatchewan Residency  Senior Potash Corp. executives, including the chief
executive officer, chief financial officer and the president of
the potash unit, will also “maintain residency” in the
Canadian province, according to the release.  Doyle maintains a residence in Saskatoon and in Chicago,
 Bill Johnson , a company spokesman, said today in a telephone
interview.  Potash Corp.’s promise to return jobs to Saskatchewan is in
response to earlier commitments by BHP, the Melbourne-based
mining company said today in an e-mailed statement.  “Under BHP, the global potash team, including its
president, would live, work, pay taxes and raise their families
in Saskatchewan as well as maintaining a residence in the
province,” BHP said in the statement.  Potash Corp.  rose $1.26 to $148.47 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  BHP  advanced 88.5 pence, or
4.2 percent, to 2,216 pence in London, its highest price in
almost six months.  The value of Potash Corp. “significantly exceeds” BHP’s
$130-a-share offer, Doyle said in the letter to employees,
citing the market outlook for crops, potash and fertilizer.  “The combination of strong food demand and production
issues has had a predictable impact on agriculture commodity
prices, with most key global crops well above their 10-year
average,” he said. The company’s nitrogen and phosphate
businesses are also benefiting, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 