-- Power-One to Ship First U.S.-Made Solar Inverters (Correct)
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2010-10-15T16:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/power-one-will-ship-its-first-u-s-made-solar-inverters-in-december.html
Power-One Inc., the maker of
electrical inverters whose stock has more than quadrupled in a
year, plans to ship its first U.S.-made units to solar power
developers Dec. 1, anticipating growth in its home market.  The California manufacturer, whose production is largely in
Italy, is hiring workers and expanding factory capacity there
and in the U.S. and China to profit from surging demand for the
equipment that connects solar panels and wind turbines to
utility grids, Chief Executive Officer Richard Thompson said.  The Camarillo-based company expects to boost its capacity
to 6,000 megawatts next year, Thompson said yesterday in an
interview at the Solar Power International conference in Los
Angeles. That’s about one-third of the global market for solar
panels in 2011, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “We’re not the largest yet, but we’re working on it,” he
said. The inverters are efficient, “which means lower-cost
electricity,” Thompson said.  Power-One’s factory in China will begin production on Jan.
1 and reduce shipping costs for equipment that can weigh as much
as 9 tons, Thompson said. Setting up production lines in new
regions increases overhead costs less than it reduces shipping
costs, he said.  Thompson is also expanding production of inverters for
offshore wind turbines and plans to introduce micro-inverters
that can be attached directly to individual solar panels for the
residential rooftop market next year.  Shares Rise  Power-One climbed 28 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $11.15 as of
2:13 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares
have more than quadrupled in the last 12 months and lead the 20-
member Bloomberg Americas Electrical Components & Equipment
Index, which has gained 19 percent in the period.  Last week, Power-One bought software developer Fat Spaniel
Technologies Inc. to improve communication between utility grids
and renewable energy sources and better manage production.  Sales for the third quarter will be in the range of $250
million to $270 million, he said. The company was expected to
have revenue of $263.4 million, the average estimate of eight
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The company plans to report
third-quarter results after the close of trading on Oct. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 