-- Putnam to Disclose Costs, Fees for 401(k) Retirement Plans
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2010-10-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/putnam-to-disclose-costs-fees-on-investments-in-401-k-retirement-plans.html
Putnam Investments says it will
increase transparency of retirement plan fees, showing account
holders online the costs they pay on each investment, ahead of
requirements from the U.S. government.  Regulators and legislators are studying  fees  for 401(k)
plans as more workers use them to save for retirement. Expense
ratios are the most consistent predictor of performance, with
lower-cost funds typically beating higher-cost funds, said  Laura Pavlenko Lutton , editorial director in the mutual-fund research
group of  Morningstar Inc. , a Chicago-based research firm.  “This is not a knee-jerk reaction to anticipated
regulation,” said  Edmund Murphy , managing director and head of
Boston-based Putnam’s defined contribution business including
about $17 billion in employer-sponsored retirement plans. “This
is one of the many ways to strengthen and enhance the 401(k)
system.”  Fees haven’t been easily visible for savers, Murphy said.
Putnam will let participants in its 401(k) plans view the
expense ratio for every underlying investment and show that cost
in dollar figures starting this month, and will be updated in
real time with changes in the market value of their holdings, he
said. The website feature also will list fees for administration
and any transaction, such as a loan or transfer of funds.  Representative  George Miller , a California Democrat and
chairman of the U.S. House Education and Labor Committee, has
introduced legislation on 401(k) fee disclosure that passed the
House of Representatives in May.  ‘No-Brainer’  “Unfortunately, there is no requirement to disclose the
fees that are eating into your 401(k) account,” Miller said in
an e-mail yesterday. “As more Americans are put in charge of
their own retirement, it’s a no-brainer that they should know
how much Wall Street is taking from their savings.”  The bill, which has not passed in the Senate, would require
fund companies to disclose 401(k) fees to participants before
they enroll so “they know what they are buying” and “don’t
have to dig around in a prospectus,” said  Aaron Albright , a
spokesman for the House Education and Labor Committee.  Fund companies would also have to disclose expenses for
each investment in the account and report in quarterly
statements how much a participant paid in fees. The legislation
would also require 401(k) providers to break down fees for
employers so they can shop around to find the best deal for
their workers, Albright said.  “Everything is up in the air,” Albright said of the
prospects for the legislation passing Congress.  Compensation Rule  The U.S. Department of Labor announced a  rule  in July that
would enhance disclosure of 401(k) fees to employers who sponsor
the retirement plans by requiring plan providers to report
direct and indirect compensation received in connection with
account services. The requirement will take effect July 16,
2011, the Labor Department said.  The Labor Department is scheduled to announce rules related
to fee disclosure for participants tomorrow,  Gloria Della , a
spokeswoman for the department, said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  The number of workers enrolled in traditional pension
plans, where employers generally provide retired employees with
lifetime payments, fell to about 19 million in 2007 from 27
million in 1975, according to the Labor Department. In that same
period, workers in defined contribution plans such as 401(k)s
increased to 67 million from 11 million.  Putnam is releasing its website feature to 401(k)
participants through the end of the year. About 30,000 investors
will have access to it as of Oct. 22, said the firm’s Murphy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 