-- Treasury 30-, 10-Year Securities Erase Losses on Fed Purchase Announcement
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-10-13T20:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/treasuries-decline-as-government-sells-21-billion-in-10-year-securities.html
Treasury  10- and 30-Year securities
erased losses after the Federal Reserve said it would purchase
about $32 billion in U.S. debt over the next month as it
reinvests mortgage-holding proceeds.  Treasuries earlier fell as stocks climbed and the U.S. sold
$21 billion in 10-year notes amid speculation yields on
government securities may not fall much further even if the Fed
increases bond buys. Thirty-year bonds reached a record yield
premium over 10-year notes as investors bet policy makers will
concentrate any expanded asset purchases on medium-term debt.  “The buybacks were announced and were larger than people
expected, which has led to some buying,” said  Thomas L. di Galoma , head of U.S. rates trading at Guggenheim Capital Markets
LLC, a New-York based brokerage for institutional investors.  The yield on the  10-year note  fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.42 percent at 4:26 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. It rose earlier as much as
five basis points. Thirty-year  bond yields  were unchanged at
3.82 percent after touching 3.88 percent, a three-week high.  Thirty-year bonds reached a record  yield  premium over 10-
year notes amid speculation the Fed will concentrate on
purchases of medium-term debt in purchasing bonds to spur the
economy, a strategy called quantitative easing. The  difference 
between yields on the securities reached 1.4 percentage points,
the widest since Bloomberg started tracking the figures in 1977.  ‘Before Long’  The longest maturities, the most sensitive to inflation
expectations, lagged behind shorter-term notes after minutes
released yesterday of the Fed’s Sept. 21 meeting showed policy
makers were prepared to ease monetary policy “before long.”
The Federal Open Market Committee also focused on further
purchases of Treasuries and boosting inflation expectations as
ways to add stimulus, the minutes said.  In another program, the New York Fed said in a  statement  on
its website it will buy Treasuries due from 2011 to 2040 in nine
acquisitions from Oct. 15 to Nov. 8 in a round of acquisitions
in its plan to reinvest principal payments on its mortgage
holdings. The purpose is to prevent money from being drained out
of the financial system. The central bank bought $44.071 billion
since it began the program on Aug. 17.  November Start  The Fed may resume its quantitative-easing effort in
November, when it next meets, according to BNP Paribas, one of
the 18 primary dealers that trade with the central bank. Policy
makers are likely to announce “an initial purchase amount of
$500 billion in long-term securities,”  Yelena Shulyatyeva , an
economist in New York, wrote today in a research report.  The Fed already acquired about $1.75 trillion of Treasury
and mortgage-related debt to sustain the recovery, concluding
the program in March. A year earlier, the central bank explained
in a statement it aimed to support mortgage-lending and housing
markets and to improve conditions in private credit markets.  Treasuries fell before 10-year notes at the auction drew a
yield of 2.475 percent, compared with the average forecast of
2.484 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 8 primary dealers.
The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total
bids with the amount of securities, was the lowest since May.  “We cheapened up into the auction, but the market firmed
up on the back of the Treasury purchase announcement,” said
 Sean Murphy , a Treasury trader in New York at Societe Generale.
“The fact that they are buying $32 billion helps support the
market going forward.”  Yields on U.S. 10- and 30-year securities reached their
highs of the day just after the sale.  ‘Not Trivial’  The Treasury selloff was “not trivial, given the
expectation that the Fed is coming in to buy a lot more
Treasuries,” said  Ira Jersey , an interest-rate strategist at
Credit Suisse Group AG, which as a primary dealer is obligated
to participate in Treasury auctions. “The market might be
pricing in a bit of a possible disappointment in regards to
quantitative easing.”  Today’s auction was the second reopening of the $24 billion
10-year note sale on Aug. 11. The notes drew yields of 2.73
percent in August and 2.67 percent in September.  The bid-to-cover ratio today was 2.99, compared with an
average of 3.1 for the past 10 sales. The auction was the second
of three note and bond offerings this week totaling $66 billion.  Foreign Central Banks  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 41.5 percent of the securities,
compared with 54.7 percent at the sale on Sept. 8 and an average
of 40 percent for the past 10 auctions. Direct bidders, non-
primary-dealer investors that place their bids directly with the
Treasury, purchased 10.7 percent of the notes, versus an average
of 13.9 percent for the past 10 offerings.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index rose as much as 1.3 percent
to a five month high before ending the day up 0.7 percent.  The  spread  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, an indication of inflation
expectations, widened 0.08 percentage point to 2.06 percentage
points. The five-year average is 2.10 percentage points.  The Treasury sold $32 billion in three-year debt yesterday
at a yield of 0.569 percent, the lowest yield on record in an
auction of the security. The bid-to-cover ratio was 2.95, the
lowest since February. The department will auction $13 billion
of 30-year bonds tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  