-- Repower, Richemont, Swatch, Swisscom May Be Active: Swiss Equity Preview
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-10-13T06:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/repower-richemont-swatch-swisscom-may-be-active-swiss-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in Zurich. Stock
symbols are in parentheses after company names. Share prices are
from the last close.  The  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies declined 0.2 percent to 6,375.26 yesterday. The
broader  Swiss Performance Index  dropped 0.2 percent.       Austriamicrosystems AG  (AMS SW): The Austrian chipmaker
whose shares are listed in Switzerland may be active after Intel
Corp., the world’s biggest chipmaker, predicted fourth-quarter
sales that beat analysts’ estimates.  ASML Holding NV, Europe’s biggest semiconductor equipment
maker, said third-quarter profit rose and reiterated that 2010
sales will advance to a record level, helped by “strong and
continuous structural demand.”  Austriamicrosystems rose 2.2 percent to 37.7 francs.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA  (CFR VX): Switzerland’s
biggest jewelry maker was cut to “hold” from “buy” at
UniCredit SpA. The shares increased 0.5 percent to 48.46 francs.       Repower AG  (REPI SW): The utility said it’s been targeted
in an investigation by the Italian antitrust authority into
matters related to the deployment of gas-fired combined-cycle
plants. Repower shares lost 0.6 percent to 432.25 francs.  Swatch Group AG  (UHR VX): The watchmaker isn’t considering
a share buyback proposal, Chief Executive Officer  Nick Hayek 
told Finanz & Wirtschaft. The company expects to reach 9 billion
Swiss francs ($9.4 billion) to 10 billion francs in annual
revenue in coming years through its existing businesses, Hayek
told the newspaper. The shares added 1 percent to 370.6 francs.  Swisscom AG  (SCMN VX): The phone company is looking for
acquisition and partnership targets, including in the Italian
information-technology industry, Chief Financial Officer  Ueli Dietiker  was quoted as saying by Finanz und Wirtschaft.  The company is hoping to distribute a dividend of at least
21 Swiss francs per share, Dietiker said, according to the
Zurich-based newspaper. The shares declined 0.7 percent to 396.1
francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 merritt1@bloomberg.net . 