-- Hines Nurseries, Tribune, Blockbuster, Mesa, Thompson, Barzel: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-10-13T12:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/tribune-blockbuster-mesa-thompson-point-blank-bankruptcy.html
Black Diamond Capital Management LLC
purchased  Hines Nurseries Inc . in a bankruptcy sale in January
2009 and put the commercial nursery back into Chapter 11 last
night in Delaware, listing asset of $179.3 million and debt
totaling $86.7 million.  In addition to being the owner, Black Diamond affiliate
Black Diamond Commercial Finance LLC is a secured creditor
holding all of the $8 million term loan and $16 million
subordinated loan. In addition, Black Diamond has 53 percent of
the $48.6 million asset-backed loan.  Hines, based in Irvine, California, said in a statement
that the new bankruptcy resulted from “greater than expected
declines in revenue” combined with “significant increases in
production and distribution costs.”  Hines has eight nurseries in Arizona, California, Oregon
and Texas. Hines owns 2,700 acres and leases another 850. Net
sales in 2009 were $123.5 million. For the first half of 2010,
revenue was $69.7 million. Debt includes $71.4 million in
secured obligations and $8.7 million owing to trade suppliers.  The new Chapter 11 case is to be financed with a $20
million loan from Black Diamond that will have priority over
existing secured debt. The existing secured lenders are
consenting to being primed, court papers say. On an interim
basis, $5 million will be available. Court papers say that
definitive documents on the loan are being worked out.  Hines has 800 customers, including Home Depot Inc., Lowe’s
Cos. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. The press release said customers
can place orders for 2011 “with confidence.”  The $48.6 million asset-backed loan is a revolving credit
with a first lien on inventory and accounts receivable. The term
loan has a first lien on real estate and fixed assets, and a
second lien on collateral for the revolving credit.  Hines filed under Chapter 11 the first time in August 2008.
Black Diamond at the time owned a majority of the $175 million
in 10.25 percent senior notes.  Black Diamond was authorized to buy the business in
December 2008 after no other bids were made at auction. The
resulting reorganization plan, confirmed in January 2009, paid
secured creditors in full on their $35.9 million in claims while
providing as much as $12 million toward debt owing to suppliers
both before and after the bankruptcy filing.  At the time of the first bankruptcy, Hines had seven
nurseries that generated $215 million in sales during 2007.
Assets in the first reorganization were listed at $297 million
against $317 million in debt.  The new case is In re Consolidated Horticulture Group LLC,
10-13308, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington). The prior case was In re Hines Horticulture Inc.,
08-11922, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Updates  Tribune Sweetens Plan, Brings Unsecured Creditors on Board  Tribune Co.  won support from the official creditors’
committee for a revised reorganization plan that builds on the
settlement with lenders Oaktree Capital Management LP and Angelo
Gordon & Co. announced in September.  To win support from the committee, $120 million cash will
be contributed, allowing bondholders to receive $420 million,
for a 32.7 percent recovery, Tribune said in a statement. Trade
suppliers for the publisher’s operating companies will be paid
in full.  Tribune said it will file a revised plan and disclosure
statement by Oct. 15, the deadline set by the bankruptcy judge
this month for the company and any creditors to submit
reorganization proposals.  The newest version of the settlement brings together
Oaktree, Angelo Gordon and JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, who own what
the press release said are “significant amounts” of debt
issued in the first and second phases of the leveraged buyout in
2007. The arrangers for the bridge loan and the debt issued in
the second part of the LBO are providing a backstop to ensure
that the entire $120 million in additional cash is available.  As before, a litigation trust would be created under the
plan to prosecute lawsuits against advisers, directors and
officers involved in the LBO. The first $90 million recovered by
the trust will go to unsecured creditors, including bondholders.  After the settlement was announced in late September, a
lawyer for the creditors’ committee said it was “simply not
adequate.”  Tribune withdrew a reorganization plan in August after the
examiner issued a report saying there was some likelihood that
the second phase of the leveraged buyout in December 2007 could
be attacked successfully as a constructively fraudulent
transfer. The examiner found less likelihood that the first
phase of the transaction, in June 2007, could be unraveled as a
fraudulent transfer.  For a summary of some of the examiner’s conclusions, click
here for the July 27 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. Tribune’s
abandoned plan would have forced a settlement of the LBO claims
on terms that some creditors opposed.  For details of the withdrawn plan, the proposed settlement
and the parties’ arguments, click here for the April 13
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For a rundown on the plan announced
in late September by Tribune, Oaktree, and Angelo Gordon, click
here for the Sept. 29 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The $13.7 billion leveraged buyout in 2007 was led by  Sam Zell .  Tribune is the second-largest newspaper publisher in the
U.S. It listed $13 billion in debt for borrowed money and assets
of $7.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
December 2008. It owns the Chicago Tribune, Los Angeles Times,
six other newspapers and 23 television stations.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Blockbuster Estimates $152 Million Eight-Month Net Loss  Blockbuster Inc.  estimated it had a $65.7 million operating
loss for the first eight months of 2010 on total revenue of
$2.19 billion.  Earnings before interests, taxes, depreciation and
amortization for the period were $300,000, the movie-rental
chain said yesterday in a regulatory filing. The net loss for
the first 34 weeks was $152.2 million.  Before the Sept. 23 Chapter 11 filing, Blockbuster
negotiated a reorganization plan with holders of 80 percent of
the senior notes. The plan would give the new stock to holders
of the $630 million in 11.75 percent senior-secured notes.
General unsecured creditors would have warrants for 3 percent of
the stock. Holders of the $300 million in 9 percent subordinated
notes wouldn’t receive anything.  The financing for Blockbuster’s reorganization requires
approval of a disclosure statement explaining the Chapter 11
plan by Jan. 15 and approval of the reorganization plan itself
by March 15. The plan is yet to be filed.  Dallas-based Blockbuster has 5,600 stores, including 3,300
in the U.S. and the remainder abroad. Among the U.S. stores,
3,000 are owned and the remainder are franchised.  The petition listed assets of $1.02 billion against debt of
$1.47 billion. Blockbuster estimated it owes $57 million in
accounts payable in addition to the secured and subordinated
notes.  The case is In re Blockbuster Inc., 10-14997, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Mesa Creditors May File Reorganization Plan Jan. 15  Mesa Air Group Inc.  in substance will allow the official
creditors’ committee to file its own reorganization proposal if
the regional airline’s Chapter 11 plan isn’t confirmed in the
meantime.  Mesa filed its reorganization plan in September, allowing
the bankruptcy judge in New York to schedule a hearing on Oct.
26 for approval of the explanatory disclosure statement. If the
disclosure statement is sanctioned for dissemination to
creditors, the confirmation hearing for approval of the plan
could be scheduled sometime around December.  When the bankruptcy judge in August extended Mesa’s
exclusive right to propose a plan, the order provided that so-
called exclusivity would be extended automatically from Oct. 21
to Dec. 1 unless the creditors’ committee were to object. In a
court filing on Oct. 8, the committee reported that Mesa agreed
to allow the committee to file a plan of its own after Jan. 15.  For details of the plan and the treatment of creditors of
each of the different Mesa companies, click here for the Sept.
21 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Mesa filed under Chapter 11 in January with a fleet of 178
aircraft. At the time, 130 were operating to provide 700 daily
departures serving 127 cities in 41 states, Canada and Mexico.
After rejecting aircraft leases, Phoenix-based Mesa is now
operating 77 aircraft making 575 departures a day.  Mesa listed assets of $976 million against debt totaling
$869 million. Liabilities include $393 million on loans secured
by 24 owned aircraft, $26 million on three note issues and $33.6
million secured by 20 other aircraft.  In addition, there was $1.62 billion in potential liability
on aircraft leases. Mesa operates regional aircraft under code-
sharing agreements with US Airways Group Inc., UAL Corp.’s
United Airlines and Delta Air Lines Inc.  The case is In re Mesa Air Group Inc., 10-10018, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Thompson Publishing Gets Final Approval for $3 Million Loan  Thompson Publishing Holding Co., a publisher of newsletters
and loose-leaf services on regulatory issues, secured final
approval yesterday for $3 million in financing to support the
reorganization begun Sept. 21.  At yesterday’s hearing, the bankruptcy judge in Delaware
also approved auction procedures. The hearing for approval of
the sale is scheduled for Nov. 19. Revised auction rules and
procedures resulting from yesterday’s hearing weren’t yet on
file.  The financing agreement requires holding the auction by
Nov. 17, with the sale-approval hearing no more than five
business days later. The loan will also be defaulted if Thompson
loses the exclusive right to propose a plan or a plan is filed
without the lenders’ “prior written consent.”  When Thompson sought Chapter 11 relief, the objective was
to hold an auction where the first-lien lenders would buy the
company in exchange for $42 million in secured debt. The lenders
also will assume liabilities on subscriptions and obligations to
employees.  Thompson has 300 products and 70,000 subscribers. The
Washington-based company expects revenue to drop this year to
$49 million. Debt includes $122.6 million owing on first-lien
debt with PNC Bank NA serving as agent. Second-lien creditors,
owed $43.5 million, have Ableco Finance LLC as agent.  Controlled by Avista Capital Partners LP, Thompson
generated 74 percent of income from subscription. The company
also arranges conferences and employee training events.  The case is In re Thompson Publishing Holding Co., 10-
13070, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Barzel Still Evaluating Feasibility of Liquidating Plan  Barzel Industries Inc ., previously a steel processor and
manufacturer, for a fourth time is seeking an expansion of the
exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11 plan. If granted by the
bankruptcy court at an Oct. 26 hearing, the new deadline for
filing a plan would be March 15, the 18-month maximum permitted
in bankruptcy law.  As it did in the prior two motions for longer exclusivity,
Barzel said it continues evaluating whether “a liquidating plan
is appropriate and feasible.”  Barzel sold most of the assets in November 2009 for $75
million to Norwood, Massachusetts-based Chriscott USA Inc.
Later, secured lenders agreed to a settlement where they
received a release of claims in return for giving up $800,000
from sale proceeds.  Barzel had 15 facilities. Its petition listed assets of
$366 million against debt totaling $385 million, including $315
million on senior secured notes. Another $18.4 million was owing
on an asset-backed loan with a first lien on accounts
receivable.  The case is In Barzel Industries Inc., 09-13204, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Exchange Offer News  Brookstone Makes New Offer for Second-Lien Note Exchange  Specialty retailer  Brookstone Inc.  is inching closer to
completing an exchange offer for the $170 million in 12 percent
second-lien notes due 2012.  The newly revised offer will pay $20 million in cash at the
rate of $975 for each $1,000 bond. For the remainder, holders
will receive new 13 percent second-lien notes maturing in 2014
at the rate of $900 in new notes for each $1,000 in old notes.  The revised offer already has been accepted by holders of
more than two-thirds of the old notes. As a result, the
collateral for the old notes will be released for any holders
that don’t accept the new notes in exchange.  For noteholders, the new offer is an improvement over older
versions. At one point, noteholders were given the option of
receiving 80 percent in cash for part of the notes or a new
second-lien note for $800 due in 2017.  Brookstone, based in Merrimack, New Hampshire, was acquired
in October 2005 in a $422 million transaction by a group
including JW Childs Associates LP,  Temasek Holdings Pte  and  OSIM
International Ltd .  New Filing  Brooklyn Apartment Project to Reorganize in White Plains  The owner of a 70-year-old apartment house on Fillmore
Avenue in Brooklyn, New York, filed for Chapter 11 protection
yesterday in White Plains, New York.  The mortgage lender, owed $31 million, began foreclosure
and installed a receiver in March 2009. The project owner said
in a court filing that the vacancy rate increased to 40 percent
during the receivership.  The owners intended to perform capital improvements, raise
rents so the property would no longer be rent stabilized, and
convert the units into luxury condominiums.  The appraised value of the property is $14.5 million, the
petition says. The property is owned by the Dedvukaj family.  The case is In re Hoti Enterprises LP, 10-24129, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (White Plains).  Briefly Noted  Point Blank Reports $2.3 Million Net Loss in August  Point Blank Solutions Inc. , a manufacturer of soft body
armor for the military and law enforcement, reported a $2.3
million net loss in August on net sales of $20.6 million. The
operating loss for the month before non-recurring expenses was
$1.95 million.  Point Blank has a plant and head office in Pompano Beach,
Florida, and a second plant in Jacksboro, Tennessee. Revenue in
2009 was more than $153 million. The petition listed assets of
$64 million against debt totaling $68.5 million. Debt included a
$10.5 million secured loan paid off by financing for the Chapter
11 case. Point Blank said it also owes $28.2 million to trade
suppliers. The former chief executive officer and chief
operating officer were convicted in September of orchestrating a
$185 million fraud.  The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Downgrade  Aquilex Lowered to B3 Corporate on Customer Deferrals  Aquilex Holdings LLC, a provider of cleaning and
maintenance services for the energy industry, was demoted one
notch yesterday by Moody’s Investors Service to a B3 corporate
rating.  Moody’s said the action was based on the overall economy
resulting in “substantial customer deferral of projects.”  Annual revenue for Atlanta-based Aquilex is $430 million,
Moody’s said.  Daily Podcast  First Amendment-Bankruptcy, Stock Awards, Default Rates: Audio  First Amendment limitations on the reach of the automatic
stay, an alleged end-run on limitations on stock awards to
company managers, another decision by new bankruptcy judge
Shelley Chapman in New York, and the continuing decline in junk-
bond default rates are discussed in the new bankruptcy podcast
on the Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click
here.  Advance Sheets  District Judge Allows Stay Ruling by Bankruptcy Judge  When there were three lawsuits pending regarding the same
disputes, a federal district judge in New Mexico allowed the
bankruptcy judge to determine which suits violated the automatic
stay and which should go forward.  The bankruptcy trustee had a lawsuit pending in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Colorado. In addition, there was a lawsuit
on the same subject matter filed in U.S. District Court in New
Mexico and a later lawsuit in U.S. District Court in Colorado.
In the district court suits, the parties essentially switched
positions, where the plaintiff in one suit was the defendant in
the other.  Under the first-to-file rule, U.S. District Judge  Robert Brack  in Santa Fe, New Mexico, ruled that the suit in his court
was the first filed. Consequently, Brack said that the suit in
district court in Colorado should be stayed pending the outcome
of the suit in his court.  There was another catch, though. Brack ruled that the suits
in his court and in the other district court were possibly in
violation of the automatic stay resulting from the Colorado
bankruptcy case.  Brack therefore stayed his case while allowing the
bankruptcy judge to decide whether the automatic stay prevented
the suit in his court from going forward.  The case is DT Land Development LLC v. West LB AG, 09-
00844, U.S. District Court, District of New Mexico (Santa Fe).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 