-- Tribune Creditors Win More Time to Propose Options to Sell TV, Paper Units
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-10-13T19:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/tribune-creditors-win-more-time-to-propose-bankruptcy-exit-plan.html
Tribune Co. ’s creditors have until
Oct. 29 to file alternative proposals for dividing up ownership
of the newspaper and television company so it can pay creditors
and exit bankruptcy, a judge said.  At least five creditor groups told U.S. Bankruptcy Court
Judge  Kevin J. Carey  during a telephone conference today that
they needed time to study Tribune’s bankruptcy-exit plan before
they could decide whether to file their own.  Tribune and three of its senior lenders have proposed
splitting ownership of the company among the lenders, over the
objections of lower-ranking creditors. Those lower-ranking
groups include bondholders who want to sue the lenders for their
role in organizing the company’s $8 billion buyout in 2007.  “I’m not sure it matters what the proposed scheduling
order says because there will be controversies,” Carey said
during the hearing, which dealt with setting court dates related
to the bankruptcy-exit proposal. “These parties have
demonstrated that to me.”  Carey moved Tribune’s deadline for filing its plan from
Oct. 15 to Oct. 22.  Fighting among Tribune lenders and creditors, who are owed
more than $12 billion, intensified after July 27 when a
bankruptcy examiner,  Kenneth N. Klee , released a report that
bolstered the position of lower-ranking creditors. Those
creditors, including noteholders owed $1.2 billion, said
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and the other buyout lenders should lose
their position among the first to be repaid because of the 2007
transaction.  Tribune’s plan is supported by hedge funds Angelo Gordon &
Co. and  Oaktree Capital Management LP  as well as JPMorgan Chase
and the majority of a panel of unsecured creditors.  Tribune filed for bankruptcy in December 2008, a year after
the  buyout , led by real estate billionaire  Sam Zell .  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 