-- Romanian Leu May Drop to Three-Month Low on No-Confidence Parliament Vote
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2010-10-14T11:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/romanian-leu-may-drop-to-three-month-low-on-no-confidence-parliament-vote.html
Romania’s leu may fall to the lowest
level in more than three months as the government faces a no-
confidence vote from political parties opposed to International
Monetary Fund-backed austerity measures.  The currency may drop 2 percent against the euro in the
next two to three weeks before the central bank acts to help
avoid a repeat of the 4.2 percent decline that occurred in late
June, according to London-based strategists at  Morgan Stanley ,
UBS AG and Societe Generale SA.  “The potential dissolution of the government is the
biggest risk” to the leu, said  James Lord , an emerging-market
strategist at Morgan Stanley. “The central bank would step in
to protect the currency if it came under significant pressure.”  The opposition plans to call a no-confidence vote this
month after the government decided to cut public-sector wages by
25 percent and raised value-added taxes. Unions are organizing a
mass demonstration in Bucharest following similar protests that
prompted the interior minister to quit in September.  The leu reached a record-low 4.4012 in June after the
Constitutional Court rejected a planned cut in pensions. The
government as a result raised the VAT to 24 percent to qualify
for the next payment of a 20 billion-euro ($27.8 billion) IMF-
led bailout.  Currency Recovery  The leu weakened 0.1 percent to 4.2823 per euro as of 2
p.m. in Bucharest from yesterday’s close. It has risen about 3
percent since the June decline as the IMF and the European Union
agreed to disburse 2 billion euros. A government collapse may
push it once again to between 4.3 to 4.35 per euro in the next
two to three weeks, according to strategists at the three banks.  Romania is trying to prevent a weakening of its currency at
a time when most of the world’s emerging-markets countries are
concerned about containing their currencies’ gains. The JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Emerging Markets Currency Index has risen 10 percent
since May 25.  Brazil doubled a tax on foreigners’ investments in fixed-
income securities and Thailand will remove a tax exemption for
foreigners on income from domestic bonds. South Korea is
planning an audit on currency swaps and options to check if
banks are complying with restrictions on holdings.  ‘Smooth Implementation’  Romanian policy makers will not allow the leu to go “much
beyond” 4.35 against the euro, said  Gaelle Blanchard , an
emerging-market strategist at  Societe Generale  in London. “The
key for the market is a smooth implementation of the IMF
program.”  Boc is counting on a majority of 258 votes in the 471-seat
Parliament. The Social Democrats and Liberals, who hold 213
seats, said they will try to persuade coalition lawmakers to
back their plan. Boc survived a non-confidence vote by eight
votes in June.  “We have seen other no-confidence votes on several
occasions,”  Koon Chow , an emerging-market strategist at
Barclays Capital, said. “The leu should be stable in the short
term because of the central bank’s interventions.”  The central bank, relying on 35.8 billion euros in
international reserves, intervened in the first half to keep the
leu “relatively stable” and prevent excessive volatility,
Governor  Mugur Isarescu  said on Oct. 5.  The bank doesn’t publicize its market interventions and the
last known action took place in October two years ago. Isarescu
declined to give the value of euro transactions carried out by
the central bank.  Little Is Needed  “It doesn’t take much for the central bank to push the
currency where they want it to be,” Morgan Stanley’s Lord said.
“The central bank has no interest in allowing a major
depreciation.”  Should Boc survive the second attempt, the leu may
strengthen to 4.25 per euro by the end of this year and to 4.15
per euro at the end of 2011, said SocGen’s Blanchard. Letting
the currency appreciate is also unwelcome because it may harm
exports and jeopardize Romania’s recovery from the worst
recession on record, she said.  The economy will probably  decline  as much as 1.9 percent
this year after contracting 7.1 percent in 2009 as austerity
measures choke demand. The IMF predicts Romania to grow as much
as 2 percent next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  