-- Rouen Port's Cereal Loadings Remain Undisturbed Amid Walkouts in France
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2010-10-13T10:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/rouen-port-s-cereal-loadings-remain-undisturbed-amid-walkouts-in-france.html
Grain loading at the port of Rouen,
Europe’s largest cereal-export hub, has been undisturbed even as
strikes take place across France and at Marseille’s oil
terminals.  “At the moment, the cereal operations are not at all
affected,” port spokesman Francois Henriot said by phone today.
“There are no blockades, and there is no shortage of fuel for
the moment.”  Rouen’s six grain terminals loaded 2.32 million metric tons
of cereals between July 1 and Oct. 6, according to data from the
Seine River port. The terminals are operated by Ets. J.
Soufflet, Lecureur SA, Senalia and Simarex, the port’s  website 
shows.  Strikers across the country today extended protests against
a proposed overhaul of the French pension system for a second
day. Workers were on strike at 10 of mainland France’s dozen
crude-oil processing plants, CGT union representative  Charles Foulard  said today.  “If the strike should continue, diesel-supply problems
could also disrupt shipping of cereals to ports,” Paris-based
farm adviser  Agritel  said in a note today.  Strikes at the Marseille oil terminals entered their 17th
day as workers demand changes to the implementation of a 2008
port-reform law.  Rouen’s grain-terminal operators are privately held, which
enabled them to avoid strike action, according to Henriot. Most
grain shipped from Rouen is delivered to the port by truck, with
the remainder arriving by rail and barge, he said.  “In our entire region, the trucks are moving,” Henriot
said. “For the time being, there is no circulation problem for
the means of cereal transport.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 