-- Rove-Led Groups Report Raising $56 Million to Help Elect More Republicans
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2010-10-13T22:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/rove-led-groups-report-raising-56-million-to-help-elect-more-republicans.html
Two Republican-leaning political
groups affiliated with  Karl Rove  said they have raised $56
million, more than their initial goal of $50 million.  American Crossroads, which discloses its donors, and
Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies, which doesn’t, have
been among the biggest outside spenders for the 2010 elections.
Rove, who was President  George W. Bush ’s chief political
strategist, advises the organizations and helps raise money.  The two groups now plan to raise $65 million, spokesman
 Jonathan Collegio  said today.  “Clearly, Karl is trying to come back two years from now
and influence the direction of the Republican Party,
anticipating that the Republicans will be able to win control of
Congress and defeat President Obama by 2012,” said former Texas
Republican chairman  Tom Pauken , who opposed Rove in the 1990s.  Republican-leaning groups are outspending Democratic
organizations, helping erase the financial advantage of
Democratic Party committees and their candidates.  Spending on political ads has risen across the country,
according to the Wesleyan Media Project, operated from Wesleyan
University in Middletown, Connecticut. The group said
candidates, parties and interest groups spent about $198 million
on ads for House and Senate races between Sept. 1 and Oct. 7, an
increase of 75 percent from 2008.  $133 Million  Candidates did most of the spending with a total of $133
million, according to the project, which used data from Kantar
Media’s Campaign Media Analysis Group. While Democratic
candidates outspent their Republican rivals, Republican-leaning
outside groups topped their Democratic counterparts by almost 9
to 1, the report said.  The Crossroads groups today announced plans to spend $10
million in House races, many of which have yet to see
significant outside money, Collegio said.  He said the money will go to support two Republican
incumbents,  Dan Lungren  in California and  Charles Djou  in
Hawaii; and to defeat Democratic Representatives  Scott Murphy ,
 Maurice Hinchey  and  Dan Maffei  in New York;  Ron Klein  in
Florida;  Joe Donnelly  in Indiana, and  Zack Space  in Ohio.  President  Barack Obama  and other Democrats have criticized
the outside organizations, most of which don’t disclose their
donors. Senate Republicans blocked legislation that would
require groups running political ads to reveal who is paying for
them.  Not a Level Field  “It’s not a level playing field,” House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  told a group of reporters on Oct. 1. Republican groups
“can get corporate money, and they can do it in an undisclosed
way in an unlimited fashion,” she said.  Much of the disclosed money given to American Crossroads
has come from Rove’s Texas base. State businessman  Trevor Rees- Jones  gave $2 million, and two companies led by  Harold Simmons ,
chairman of Dallas-based  Titanium Metals Corp. , gave $1 million
each. The two companies are Dixie Rice Agricultural Corp. and
Southwest Louisiana Land LLC.  “The people who are wealthy and give big contributions,
you can generally assume that they’re being solicited,” said
Bill Miller, a political consultant in Austin who used to work
for another major Republican donor in Texas, Bob Perry. “It’s a
pretty rarefied club.”  Rees-Jones didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Perry’s name wasn’t among those reported as donors to
American Crossroads. Perry’s spokesman,  Anthony Holm , declined
to comment on any donations he may have made to groups that
don’t disclose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 