-- Ruble Hits Eight-Month Low as Trading Firms See Central Bank Easing Limits
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-10-13T12:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/ruble-hits-8-month-low-as-traders-say-central-bank-limits-eased.html
The ruble slumped to an eight-month
low against the euro as traders said the central bank is
weakening its limits on the exchange rate amid concern inflows
of foreign currency are declining.  Russia’s currency slid as much as 1.2 percent to 42.1875
per euro, the weakest intraday level since Feb. 1 and the
biggest decline among more than 20 emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg today. It dropped as much as 0.5 percent to
30.24 per dollar.  Bank Rossii  has widened the so-called floating corridor it
uses to guide the ruble against a basket of dollars and euros,
according to traders from three of the biggest securities firms,
who declined to be identified because the policy change hasn’t
been announced. A government report yesterday showed the trade
surplus of the world’s largest energy exporting economy narrowed
by almost a quarter in August, the biggest monthly drop in more
than a year, as imports grew faster than exports.  “If you don’t have a surplus that means you don’t have
foreign-currency inflow on to the market,”  Vladimir Osakovsky ,
a Russia economist for UniCredit SpA, Italy’s largest bank, said
in a phone interview from Moscow. It’s “quite possible” the
basket corridor could be breached should the surplus narrow
further, he said.  The  ruble  slid 0.6 percent to 35.4978 against the basket as
of 3:47 p.m. in Moscow, headed for its weakest close in 1 1/2
weeks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank
has been buying and selling foreign currency to keep the ruble
within the 33.40 to 36.40 corridor, First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in June.  Currency Defense  Bank Rossii sells foreign currency when the ruble is
between 35.40 and 36.40 versus the basket, according to
Ulyukayev. The absence of Bank Rossii on the market today is an
indicator they are no longer defending 36.40, the traders said.
The new corridor was expanded by 50 kopeks at each end and is
now 32.9 to 36.9 versus the basket, according to two of the
traders.  A spokesman for the central bank’s press service, who
wouldn’t be identified citing bank policy, declined to comment
on whether the corridor had been widened.  The ruble may weaken beyond 36.40 against the basket as
soon as next month as a declining current-account surplus
reduces the amount of foreign currency on the Russian market,
said  Natalia Orlova , chief economist at Moscow-based Alfa Bank,
Russia’s largest private lender.  Ruble Forwards  Non-deliverable forwards indicated more investors bet on a
weaker ruble, showing the currency at 30.3302 per dollar in
three months, the weakest three-month NDF level since Oct. 4.
The contracts, known as NDFs, are a way of gauging the likely
direction of currencies as they allow companies to hedge against
exchange-rate fluctuations and foreign investors to speculate on
currencies.  Options traders remain bullish on the ruble, with the
currency’s one-week risk reversal rate -- the premium of put
options over calls -- at 0.5 percent for a second day, from as
high as 2 percent last week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ruble is the European developing-nation currency
that traders are most bullish on today, apart from the Turkish
lira, one-week risk-reversal rates show.  Russia’s Finance Ministry sold almost all of the 2015 and
2013 ruble-denominated federal bonds it put up for auction
today, even after offering the lowest yields relative to
existing debt since June.  Bank Rossii, which manages the ruble to temper swings that
hurt exporter competitiveness, is “gradually” moving toward
its goal of a fully flexible exchange rate by 2012, according to
new policies published last month. The central bank is becoming
“marginal” in the nation’s currency markets and is no longer
targeting a specific level of the currency, Ulyukayev said Oct.
5.  The yield on the nation’s dollar bonds due 2020 declined
for a third day, to 4.19 percent, the lowest since the notes
were first sold in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  