-- Spain's Santander Funds at Higher Rate to Inferior Banks
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2010-10-13T23:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/santander-funding-at-inferior-rate-to-inferior-bank-defines-being-spanish.html
Anyone wondering why the most
 profitable bank  in the euro region pays more to borrow than some
of the worst performers can find the answer in Spain, where high
unemployment and a sputtering economy pushed up funding costs at
 Banco Santander SA .  Santander sold 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) of 4.125
percent, seven-year senior bonds last month with a AA rating
that yield 156 basis points more than average market rates.
Germany’s Commerzbank AG, which required a government rescue in
2008, issued 1 billion euros of 4 percent, 10-year senior debt
with an A rating that yields 126 basis points more than the
benchmark.  Bondholders are penalizing Santander, based in the northern
Spanish city of the same name, because the nation’s jobless rate
-- at 20.5 percent in August -- was the highest in the euro
region and the budget deficit was the third biggest last year as
a proportion of gross domestic product. Moody’s Investors
Service cut Spain’s debt rating in September because of doubts
about the country’s ability to generate enough growth to meet
its fiscal targets beyond 2011.  “If Santander were a bank in Germany or France, it would
be best in class,” said  Inigo Lecubarri , who manages about $200
million at Abaco Financials Fund in London. “The problem they
have is that their address is Spanish.”  Santander Chairman  Emilio Botin  spent more than $60 billion
on acquisitions during the past decade to gain market share in
countries ranging from Brazil to Britain. The takeovers helped
Santander  earn  26.9 billion euros in the three years through
2009, the most among banks in the 16 nations sharing the euro.  Commerzbank Scorecard  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-largest bank, reported a  loss 
of 4.54 billion euros last year, after earning 3 million euros
in 2008 and 1.92 billion euros the previous year. The company
tapped the government for 18.2 billion euros of aid during the
credit crunch, leaving the state with a  25 percent  stake.  Commerzbank  dropped  63 percent in Frankfurt trading since
U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went bankrupt
in September 2008, while Santander fell just 9 percent. Today,
Santander ranks as the biggest bank in continental Europe, with
a market value of 79 billion euros.  Santander , which has a AA credit rating after remaining
profitable every quarter through the financial crisis, also pays
more to borrow than lower-rated German rival  Deutsche Bank AG .
The 1.15 billion euros of 10-year, 5 percent subordinated debt
that Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank sold in June with an A rating
yields 138 basis points more than the so-called mid-swap rate.  Spain ‘Stigma’  Higher borrowing costs will hurt Santander’s profit margins,
said  John Raymond , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in London.
Third-quarter earnings at Banco Espanol de Credito SA,
Santander’s consumer-banking unit in Spain, fell 52 percent as
lending revenue declined and costs for bad loans increased.  “Even if they aren’t trying to raise funds, it’s a problem
because investors are going to use their cost of funds as a way
to measure how risky they are,” Raymond said. “It’s a kind of
stigma.”  Spain now accounts for about 22 percent of Santander’s
profit, down from 36 percent at the end of 2004. The decrease
occurred with the acquisitions, including the 12.5 billion-euro
purchase of Abbey National Plc in the U.K. and the 11 billion-
euro takeover of ABN Amro Holdings NV’s Brazilian unit.  After the deals, about 75 percent of the bank’s wholesale
funding is still done in euros.  Officials at Santander declined to comment.  Peripheral Spreads  Investors demand a fatter yield to buy Santander’s debt
because of concern that Spain, along with other euro peripherals
Greece, Portugal and Ireland, will struggle to revive economic
growth and pare their budget deficits at the same time.  Santander’s 3.5 percent bonds maturing in 2015 yield 121
basis points more than the mid-swap rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. By comparison, BNP Paribas SA, France’s
biggest bank, sold 1.5 billion euros of senior five-year bonds
that yield 48 basis points over mid swaps. A basis point is
equivalent to 0.01 percentage point.  BNP Paribas has the same  credit rating  at Standard & Poor’s
as Santander.  Deutsche Bank  has an A+ rating and stable outlook from S&P,
two levels lower than  Santander . S&P has maintained a negative
outlook on the Spanish bank since March 2009.  Moody’s cut Spain’s debt rating last month by one level to
Aa1 from Aaa. Germany and France still carry Moody’s highest
rating.  IMF’s View  The International Monetary Fund estimates Spain’s economy
will grow 0.7 percent next year, compared with the government’s
1.3 percent forecast. The nation’s gross domestic product will
shrink by about 0.3 percent this year after contracting 3.7
percent in 2009.  Santander has about 68 billion euros of debt that  matures 
from now through the end of 2012, according to Bloomberg data.
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, Spain’s second-biggest bank,
has 30 billion euros of debt coming due in the same period.
Bilbao-based  BBVA  relies on Spain for about half of its profit.  Santander is perceived as more risky than some competitors
in the credit-default swaps market. The cost of insuring the
Spanish bank’s debt for five years was about 143 basis points
yesterday, compared with 84 basis points for Deutsche Bank and
80 basis points for BNP Paribas, according to CMA prices.  “We have had Greece and Ireland, and now the market is
looking for the next whipping boy,” said  John Anderson , who
helps oversee about 23 billion pounds ($36 billion) as head of
credit at London-based Gartmore Investment Management Ltd.,
referring to Santander and BBVA. “I don’t necessarily agree
that the market has got it right.”  Competing for Deposits  Spanish banks have been forced to compete for customer
funds to close the gap between loans and deposits, which made
lenders vulnerable when wholesale financing costs climbed, said
 Claire Kane , an analyst at MF Global in London. Santander raised
30 billion euros this year in Spain from a deposit-gathering
campaign by offering customers a 4 percent interest rate. The
average three-month interbank rate is 0.75 percent.  Borrowing costs have retreated in Spain since July, as
investors digested government commitments to cut the deficit and
the results of stress tests coordinated by the Committee of
European Banking Supervisors. Santander’s Tier 1 capital ratio,
a measure of solvency, would stay at 10 percent, the same level
as at the end of 2009, under the most severe  stress test 
scenario, the Bank of Spain said on July 23.  The  extra yield  that investors demand to hold 10-year
Spanish debt rather than German bunds was 174 basis points
yesterday, down from a high of 221 basis points on June 16.  Unless investor perceptions about the outlook for Spanish
growth and the government’s ability to cut its budget deficit in
half by next year keep improving, Santander will remain hostage
to higher funding costs, said Lecubarri of Abaco Financials.  “If Santander could walk away from Spain and base itself
in Zurich, that would be great, but that’s not going to
happen,” he said. “They can’t just detach themselves.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  