-- Sarkozy Aims to Overhaul Wealth, Asset Taxes, After Political Pressure
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-10-13T13:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/sarkozy-aims-to-overhaul-wealth-asset-taxes-after-political-pressure.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
aims to overhaul French wealth and estate taxes, opening up a
political minefield in the months before 2012 elections.  The review will be complete by June 2011, and will be done
as part of a study into aligning taxes with those of  Germany ,
Europe’s biggest economy and France’s largest trading partner,
government spokesman  Luc Chatel  told reporters today.  Sarkozy is being pressured on two fronts, by members of his
own party who want to abolish the wealth tax, and by public
opinion, which backs the levy and opposes a ceiling Sarkozy
passed on total household tax liabilities. Sarkozy’s popularity
is near record lows over plans to raise the retirement age and
cut the budget deficit.  “Getting rid of the wealth tax entirely is almost
impossible, both because it’s an ideological tax and because it
would be difficult to replace the revenue,” said Samuel-
Frederic Serviere, a researcher at  Ifrap , a Paris-based
institute that favors free markets. “Sarkozy is in a bit of an
impossible bind on this one.”  Lawmakers from Sarkozy’s Union for a Popular Movement party
this week presented an amendment that would abolish both the
wealth tax and the tax shield, which limits personal taxes to 50
percent of income. To make up for the lost revenue, the measure
called for new taxes on passive income, such as dividends, as
well as a higher income-tax band for those with high salaries.  The amendment was dropped after Budget Minister  Francois Baroin  said yesterday during parliamentary debate that the
government will confront the issue next year.  ‘Not Taboo’  “It’s an open question, it’s not taboo,” Baroin said.
“It must be done with a global approach.”  France is the only member of the Group of Seven
industrialized countries to have a wealth tax. Germany abolished
its own in 1997. Denmark and the Netherlands have also recently
abolished their versions of the tax.  The tax, Impot de Solidarite sur la Fortune, or ISF, was
introduced by the late Socialist President  Francois Mitterrand 
after his 1981 election. It applies to the net wealth over
790,000 euros ($1.1 million) of French residents. Holdings
including real estate, securities, racehorses and jewelry, and
the French-based assets of non-residents are eligible to be
taxed. Art and antiques are exempt.  The tax will raise 3.3 billion euros this year, up from 3.1
billion in 2009, or about 1.3 percent of total government
revenue, according to the budget ministry. The number of
households subject to the tax rose to 562,000 from 539,000, or
about 1.5 percent of households.  Tax Shield  Sarkozy, who has blamed the tax for forcing wealthy French
to move overseas, introduced the tax shield after his 2007
election. The shield, which will refund 679 million euros to
taxpayers this year, has been denounced by the opposition
Socialist Party as a gift to the rich.  A BVA poll for Canal+ television last week showed that 71
percent want the tax shield abolished, while 64 percent are
against abolishing the ISF. The poll questioned 1,117 people on
Oct. 5 and 6. No margin of error was given.  Chatel wouldn’t say what changes the government would
consider. “The goal is to open a reflection,” he said. “You
don’t establish the final decision before you start.”  Sarkozy said in July that he wants to align French taxes
with Germany, which has emerged from the recession faster than
France and with a lower budget deficit.  With his 2012 re-election campaign looming, a possible
outcome would be for Sarkozy to keep the ISF while removing
principal residences from its calculation, Serviere said. That
would get rid of the tax’s most distortive effect -- modest wage
earners who are subject to the ISF because they own property --
and enable Sarkozy to get rid of the tax shield.  Even that move would force Sarkozy to increase other taxes.  “Adding an income-tax band of 45 percent on people earning
more than 100,000 euros, as the UMP legislators suggest, would
only bring in a few hundred thousand euros,” Serviere said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  