-- Sberbank Urges Russia to Sell Stake on Market, Not to Strategic Investor
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-10-13T13:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/sberbank-urges-russia-to-sell-stake-on-market-not-to-strategic-investor.html
OAO Sberbank wants Russia to sell
its shares in the country’s largest lender through a bourse
rather than directly to a strategic investor, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer  Anton Karamzin  said.  “A sale on the market is preferable,” Karamzin said in an
e-mailed response to questions. “It would undoubtedly have a
positive effect on the banking sector.”  First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said yesterday in
Moscow that the central bank, which holds 60.3 percent of
Sberbank, may sell more than the planned 9 percent stake to help
the government finance its budget deficit. The shortfall is set
to reach 5.3 percent of gross domestic product this year and 3.6
percent in 2011, according to government forecasts.  “The fact that the privatization plans have been
reiterated is positive for sentiment,” analysts at VTB Capital,
including  Dmitry Dmitriev  and  Mikhail Shlemov , said today in a
research note. “The chances of the state decreasing its stake
in Sberbank to below a controlling one are fairly remote.”  Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said Oct. 6 that Russia
won’t sell stakes in any major companies except VTB Group,
Russia’s second-biggest lender, this year. The government may
raise about $10 billion a year over the next five years from
asset sales, Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said Sept. 15.  The sale of a minority stake in Sberbank is more likely to
be on the agenda for 2012, according to VTB Capital.  Moody’s Investors Service raised the outlook for Russia’s
banking industry to “stable” from “negative” on Oct. 12,
citing improved liquidity and expectations of positive economic
growth in the near- to medium-term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  