-- SEC Investigation Finds No Evidence Politics Drove Goldman Suit
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-10-14T02:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/sec-investigation-finds-no-evidence-goldman-suit-was-timed-to-help-obama.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s  internal watchdog  said he found no evidence a
lawsuit against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  was driven by politics
or that agency officials timed the case to help President  Barack Obama  win support for financial-regulation legislation.  The SEC’s April 16 announcement of the suit against New
York-based Goldman Sachs was driven by concern it would be
leaked to the public, efforts to maintain a relationship with
New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  and “maximizing and
shaping positive press coverage,” Inspector General H.  David Kotz  wrote in an 82-page report released by the agency yesterday.  The SEC sued Goldman Sachs, accusing the Wall Street firm
of selling a mortgage security without disclosing that hedge
fund  Paulson & Co.  helped design the asset and was betting it
would fail.  Kotz agreed to examine the case after U.S. Representative
 Darrell Issa , a California Republican, questioned whether the
SEC timed the case to help Obama secure enough votes to pass the
financial rules overhaul being debated in Congress. SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  denied any communication with the White House or
lawmakers.  “This report reaffirms that the case was brought on the
merits and only on the merits,” SEC spokesman  John Nester  said.  Kotz, who reviewed more than 3.4 million e-mails written by
64 current and former SEC officials, said he didn’t find any
evidence that agency officials coordinated the Goldman Sachs
lawsuit with White House employees, members of Congress,
congressional employees or Democratic electoral groups. Sworn
testimony was taken from 32 witnesses, the report said.  $300 Million Fine  Goldman Sachs agreed in July to pay a $300 million fine and
$250 million as restitution to investors who lost money on the
deal. The company didn’t admit or deny the SEC’s allegations.  The SEC also sued  Fabrice Tourre , a Goldman Sachs executive
director accused of misleading investors who invested in the
Abacus collateralized debt obligation. Tourre is fighting the
agency’s allegations.  The SEC first scheduled a vote by commissioners on the
Goldman Sachs case for December 2009, the report said. The
agency delayed the vote so its enforcement staff could take
testimony from an additional witness.  The SEC then felt pressure in January 2010 to move the case
forward, because agency staff learned that the Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations was considering holding a hearing
on Goldman Sachs. SEC officials grew concerned that aspects of
the probe might be made public by the panel, which is chaired by
Democratic Senator  Carl Levin  of Michigan, the report said.  Commissioner’s Concerns  The SEC scheduled a second commissioner vote for Jan. 28.
The vote was delayed again due to concerns expressed by a
commissioner, discussions about whether to accuse an
“additional individual” of wrongdoing and a decision by
enforcement attorneys to pursue more evidence, Kotz wrote.  Once SEC commissioners approved the case in a 3-2 vote on
April 14, the agency encountered obstacles in deciding when to
publicly announce the action, Kotz found.  New York’s Cuomo planned to announce a $7 million fine
against Quadrangle Group LLC on April 15 over allegations that
the money-management firm paid kickbacks to win an investment
from a state retirement fund.  The SEC, which was ready to file its own case against New
York-based Quadrangle, didn’t want to alienate Cuomo by
distracting from his case.  “I was a little worried that the attorney general would be
very upset if we announced multiple cases the same day,”
Schapiro testified.  Confuse Media  SEC staff was also concerned that announcing the agency’s
own Quadrangle case and the Goldman Sachs matter on the same day
would “confuse the media’s focus” and dilute press coverage,
according to the report. As a result, the SEC moved the Goldman
Sachs announcement to April 16, the report said.  The disclosure of the Goldman Sachs case coincided with the
release of a separate Kotz report into SEC investigations of R.
 Allen Stanford , who’s facing trial in Texas for spearheading a
$7 billion fraud.  Kotz’s earlier probe found the SEC failed to conduct a
meaningful probe of Stanford’s firm until 2005 even though
agency examiners suspected he was engaging in wrongdoing eight
years earlier.  The SEC ultimately sued Stanford in February 2009, claiming
he used an Antigua-based bank to sell billions of dollars in
bogus certificates of deposit. He’s denied wrongdoing.  Kotz said he failed to find any “concrete” evidence that
the SEC delayed announcement of the Goldman Sachs case to
detract attention from his Stanford report.  Reviewed Complaints  The SEC watchdog also reviewed complaints by Goldman Sachs
executives that the agency didn’t warn the firm before filing
the lawsuit.  Phone records of a Goldman Sachs attorney found the first
call from the SEC came at 10:39 a.m. New York time, ten minutes
after the agency filed the case and seven minutes after it
issued a press release, according to Kotz’s report.  One unidentified SEC official testified that the agency was
concerned Goldman Sachs would try to manipulate media coverage
if given too much advance notice.  “Goldman is a pretty sophisticated player,” the SEC
official said, according to the report. “If you know that
something is coming from the SEC, you can maybe take certain
actions to precondition the reporters about the case. Maybe the
coverage would not be as favorable, from the SEC’s
perspective.”  Opportunities to Settle  SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  testified that
Goldman Sach’s attorney contacted him after the lawsuit’s
announcement to complain the firm didn’t get a chance to settle
the case.  Khuzami told the lawyer that Goldman Sachs had “many
opportunities to settle.” Khuzami also said he didn’t think it
was a “good idea” for the SEC to always notify a target before
filing a lawsuit.  The SEC’s office of public affairs maintains a press policy
that says “every effort should be made to avoid the possibility
that defendants in an SEC enforcement action first learn of the
action when they read about it in the newspapers or when they
are called by a reporter for comment,” Kotz’s report said.  The SEC watchdog said the agency didn’t fully comply with
the policy in the Goldman Sachs matter.  Goldman Sach’s  shares  tumbled as much as 16 percent after
the case was announced, and financial stocks fell broadly that
day.  Lorin Reisner , Khuzami’s deputy, testified that additional
consultation with SEC officials who oversee stock trading before
filing the case “couldn’t have been a bad thing,” according to
the report.  Alarmed by Coverage  Kotz found SEC officials, including Schapiro, were alarmed
by the amount of press coverage the case received.  “Many SEC witnesses in this investigation, including
Chairman Schapiro, testified that they were surprised or shocked
at the extent of the media attention given to the Goldman
action,” he wrote.  “This belief held by the SEC staff, which is corroborated
by e-mails, that the Goldman action might not have significant
public impact, much less the impact that it ultimately had, is
another factor that argues against the idea that the SEC or its
staff were attempting to influence financial regulatory reform
legislation,” Kotz’s report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 