-- SEC May Tighten Trigger for Trading Restrictions, Official Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-10-13T15:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/sec-may-seek-tighter-circuit-breaker-band-of-3-to-5-stock-fluctuation.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission may alter curbs that limit trading after a stock or
exchange-traded fund shows rapid price movements, said  James Brigagliano , the SEC’s deputy director of trading and markets.  The agency “might want a tighter band” such as 3 percent
or 5 percent instead of the current 10 percent in the next phase
of the circuit-breaker program, Brigagliano said today at a
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association conference
in New York. Trading in a given stock in the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  and Russell 1000 Index and more than 300 ETFs is now
halted for five minutes when the affected security’s price moves
at least 10 percent in the preceding five-minute period.  The SEC and exchanges are moving toward an alternative
system of curbs that incorporates a so-called limit up and limit
down mechanism to prevent executions above or below a trigger
level instead of halting trading, unless that becomes necessary,
Brigagliano said. Discussions are taking place about how trading
would “exit limit up, limit down” and return to normal rules
for executions, he said.  The May 6 crash that erased $862 billion in equity value in
about 20 minutes prompted exchanges to implement circuit
breakers to pause trading in more than 1,300 securities during
periods of volatility. Other changes such as uniform policies
for canceling trades and eliminating stub quotes, or bids and
offers at prices far away from the stock’s last sale, have also
been proposed or adopted.  Reference Price  The SEC may also reconsider the so-called reference price
that triggers a halt, Brigagliano said. It might take into
account the volume-weighted average price in the security, he
said. The circuit-breaker program for individual securities,
begun in June, is a pilot that runs until Dec. 10.  Brigagliano said in an interview that the pilot could be
extended beyond December. The SEC would have to propose
alterations to the program and wait for comments about the new
rules before they could be implemented, he said. Implementation
of a new program of curbs by the end of the year “would be
doubtful,” he said.  The goal is to have as few pauses as possible, avoid
halting trading when that makes sense and provide a “safety
net” for stocks and ETFs, Brigagliano said at the conference.  The circuit breakers that operate across securities and
futures markets, introduced after the 1987 crash, are also being
re-evaluated, Brigagliano said. Regulators are assessing the
“band and what they should be based on,” he said in the
interview.  The current curb is based on the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  and halts all trading for an hour when the Dow drops 10
percent before 2:30 p.m. New York time. The level of the decline
and time of day determine the response.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 