-- SEC Proposes Stiffer Due Diligence Rules for Wall Street Asset-Backed Debt
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-10-13T15:26:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/sec-proposes-stiffer-due-diligence-rules-for-wall-street-asset-backed-debt.html
U.S. regulators moved to implement a
financial-rules overhaul provision that would require Wall
Street to review loans in asset-backed securities amid criticism
that the proposal falls short of protecting investors.  Securities and Exchange Commission members voted 4-1 today
to consider a requirement that underwriters scrutinize the
mortgages, credit-card debt and auto loans packaged into bonds.
The Dodd-Frank law enacted in July required the SEC to propose
the rule after banks were faulted for selling debt to investors
without concern over whether the underlying loans would go bad.  Banks, insurance companies and public pension funds lost
billions of dollars investing in bonds made up of risky home
loans after credit markets froze in 2008. SEC Commissioner  Luis Aguilar  voted against the agency’s proposal, saying it gives
securities firms too much latitude to conduct due diligence
instead of requiring specific “standards or expectations.”  “This proposal will frustrate investor protection by
endorsing an anything-goes approach for issuers,” said Aguilar,
a Democrat said. “The requirement to propose a minimum standard
was specifically and consciously dismissed.”  The SEC, which didn’t include specific requirements on how
reviews must be conducted, plans to solicit public comment on
the matter.  The SEC rule allows underwriters to examine loans
themselves or hire an independent firm to conduct reviews. The
proposal stipulates that the level and type of review can vary
depending on the “nature of the assets being securitized,” the
SEC said in a statement.  Securities firms would be required to disclose to investors
how they performed the review, as well as findings and
conclusions. Wall Street would also have to reveal information
about individual loans that didn’t adhere to “disclosed
underwriting criteria,” the SEC said.  The SEC will solicit feedback from investors and securities
firms on its proposal before the agency’s staff makes any
changes. The rule requires a second vote by SEC commissioners to
become binding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  