-- SEC Says Struggle to Collect Data on Stock Rout Illustrates Need for Audit
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-10-14T04:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/sec-says-three-months-needed-to-collect-data-on-crash-shows-need-for-audit.html
The report by U.S. regulators on the
May 6 plunge took almost five months to complete because the
Securities and Exchange Commission lacks access to uniform data
about quotes and trades, said  Gregg Berman , senior adviser to
the director of the SEC’s division of trading and markets.  The joint report published by the SEC and Commodity Futures
Trading Commission on Oct. 1 found that a trader’s routine
attempt to hedge losses helped set off a chain of events that
sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average down as much as 998.50
points, according to the 104-page study. A mutual-fund company
began selling 75,000 contracts in E-mini futures on the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index at 2:32 p.m. New York time, triggering a wave
of selling that spread to the stock market, the report said.  The CFTC assembled the data it needed to analyze that day’s
futures trading within a few weeks, Berman said yesterday at a
Securities Industry and Financial Markets conference in New
York. It took the SEC three months to get data on stock trading
because comparable information doesn’t exist in a uniform or
accessible format from exchanges and brokers.  “Why did it take us at the SEC three months to complete
the market data analysis?” Berman said. The regulator’s
inability to compile the information faster underscores the need
for what the SEC calls a consolidated audit trail, an
industrywide recordkeeping system it proposed on May 26, he
said. “A market structure that can support the requirements of
a consolidated audit trail will necessarily be a more robust
structure and provide participants with more confidence to
trade,” he said.  $2.1 Billion a Year  The SEC’s  proposal  for an audit trail said the project
would cost exchanges and brokers, who would pay for it, $4
billion to establish and $2.1 billion a year to maintain.  From June through mid-August, a 20-person team at the SEC
was dedicated to collecting, cleaning and processing data they
received from exchanges and brokers. That included who submitted
orders, how buy and sell requests were routed to exchanges or
other venues, and whether they were executed or canceled.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s Nasdaq Stock Market and NYSE
Euronext’s New York Stock Exchange have audit trails for trading
activity on their markets. Both companies are based in New York.
The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which performs some
surveillance activities for most exchanges, has said that
monitoring for trading abuses across venues in a fragmented
market is difficult when different data is maintained by firms
in different formats.  The SEC plans for its audit trail to be “scalable” so it
could eventually include other products sure as futures,  David Shillman , associate director in the SEC’s trading and markets
division, said at the conference yesterday. The agency’s intent
is “to work with the CFTC on an audit trail that would be
available to both regulators,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 