-- SEC Proposes Capping Banks' Stakes in Clearinghouses
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-10-13T18:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/sec-proposes-capping-banks-ownership-of-derivatives-clearinghouses-at-20-.html
Banks and major swap users would be
limited to 20 percent ownership of derivatives clearinghouses,
exchanges and trading platforms under a proposal approved by the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 today to approve the proposal,
which would also bar groups of banks from owning more than 40
percent of a venue that clears securities-based swaps. The
ownership cap, aimed at preventing conflicts of interest in the
$615 trillion derivatives market, is similar to a proposal made
this month by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “The over-the-counter derivatives markets have a
relatively high concentration of market activity through a
limited number of dealers,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said
before the vote. “This concentrated market structure creates
the potential for conflicts if a similarly small number of firms
are able to control the trading and clearing venues for the
security-based swap markets.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  are among
five banks that control 97 percent of the U.S. derivatives
market. Regulators have said that if those banks are permitted
to dominate ownership of trading platforms, they may exclude
other firms for competitive advantage or try to keep certain
products in over-the-counter markets that lack transparency.  Dodd-Frank  Derivatives are securities whose value is linked to assets
such as stocks, bonds or commodities. U.S. lawmakers sought to
regulate the products through the Dodd-Frank overhaul measure
passed in July after outstanding trades complicated efforts to
respond to the 2008 financial crisis.  As securities firms including Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. faced collapse, government agencies
struggled to determine how connected the companies were to other
banks through derivatives transactions.  Clearinghouses, which are capitalized by their members,
increase stability in derivatives markets because they lessen
the effect of a default by sharing risk among the members. They
also use daily margining procedures to keep accounts current and
allow regulators to see market positions and prices.  Under Dodd-Frank, derivatives regulation is divided between
the SEC and CFTC. The SEC oversees swaps based on single stocks
or loans. The CFTC has authority over derivatives tied to energy
and agricultural products as well as interest rates. Both
agencies have to write rules for regulating derivatives.  A second ownership option proposed by the SEC would bar any
securities firm from owning more than 5 percent of a clearing
agency.  The proposal requires that at least 35 percent of any
clearinghouse’s board be independent of the owners. The mandate
would also apply to board committees.  The SEC will seek feedback from investors and securities
firms before the agency’s staff makes any changes. The rule
requires a second vote by SEC commissioners to become binding.  SEC commissioners separately approved a rule that requires
banks to report any unexpired swap transactions that they
entered before Dodd-Frank was approved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  