-- Sentance Says U.K. House-Price Drop a Sign of Volatility
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-14T07:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/sentance-says-bank-of-england-faces-increasing-risk-of-credibility-loss.html
Bank of England policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said the record drop shown in the Halifax house-price
gauge last month may show “volatility” instead of heralding a
renewed property-market slump.  “For the time being I would regard that move in house
prices you saw in the Halifax index, which wasn’t replicated in
the Nationwide house-price index, as an indicator of volatility
in the market rather than the start of a pronounced downward
trend,” Sentance said in response to questions after a speech
in London late yesterday.  The 3.6 percent price drop in September shown by Halifax, a
division of Lloyds Banking Group Plc, contrasted with a 0.1
percent increase reported by Nationwide Building Society. While
Sentance has argued since June that the economy is strong enough
to withstand higher interest rates, his colleague  Adam Posen 
said last month that it requires more stimulus.  “We’re bound to go through periods where there are periods
of uncertainty,” Sentance said.  In his speech, Sentance reiterated his call for higher
interest rates, saying that the longer the Bank of England keeps
it benchmark rate at a record low, the more it puts its
credibility at risk.  “It is important” that “confidence is not eroded by a
perception that the Monetary Policy Committee has taken its eye
off the ball and is becoming more tolerant of higher
inflation,” Sentance said. “Unfortunately, the risk of such a
loss of confidence and credibility appears to be increasing.”  3% Limit  Inflation  held at 3.1 percent in September, exceeding the
government’s 3 percent limit for a seventh month and above the
central bank’s 2 percent goal.  “The current period of above-target inflation risks being
prolonged by monetary policy which is too lax -- creating a
climate in which higher inflation is not just the product of
one-off shocks but becomes more deeply ingrained,” Sentance
said.  Sentance’s view is also at odds with that of Deputy
Governor  Paul Tucker , who said in an interview with the Daily
Mail that he is “more balanced” about inflation and the need
to remove stimulus than he expected to be since the economy
showed some signs of weakening. Until recently, Tucker regarded
inflation as being “uncomfortably high,” the newspaper said.  He also said it isn’t “terribly surprising” that house
price have “softened a bit. A few months ago it was surprising
that they hadn’t fallen more than they did.”  Three-Way Split  The central bank this month kept its  benchmark interest
rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent and held its emergency bond
purchase at 200 billion pounds ($317 billion) ahead of the
government’s planned spending cuts to reduce the budget deficit.
Minutes of that decision will be published on Oct. 20.  Sentance “has so far failed to persuade any other MPC
member to join him in voting for tighter policy, and our sense
is that Mr. Posen may have similarly been unsuccessful in
attracting supporters,” said  Simon Hayes , an economist at
Barclays Capital in London. He expects the MPC minutes to show a
“three-way split and suspect this pattern may be evident for
some time.”  Sentance said while the budget squeeze will have an impact
on domestic demand, he sees “grounds for encouragement” in the
pace of the recover so far.  “The improvement we have seen in the economy over the last
year and the above-target inflation we have experienced point to
the need to begin the process of withdrawing the very
substantial level of monetary stimulus,” he said. “Such a
policy should not be a threat to the recovery. In my view it is
the key to sustaining the recovery.”  ‘Amplified’  Sentance also said that the impact on inflation from higher
commodity prices has been “amplified” by the pound’s weakness.
The U.K. currency has fallen about 20 percent on a trade-
weighted basis since the start of 2007.  “I believe we are likely to see continued upward pressure
on inflation from global price pressures as the recovery in the
world economy continues,” Sentance said.  Recent data has signaled U.K. economic growth slowed in the
third quarter and policy maker  David Miles  said this week that
officials must not tighten policy too soon and hurt an
“immature” recovery. He also said asset purchases remain a
“powerful tool” that “we may come to use.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  