-- Seoul Homeowners Watch Prices Sink Even as Economy Soars
-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-10-14T02:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/seoul-property-owners-watch-real-estate-prices-sink-defying-growth-trend.html
Yoon Jae Kwang sidestepped the
global financial crisis by selling all of his mutual funds after
100 percent returns to buy an apartment outside Seoul in 2007.
Three years later, the housing market has slumped and Yoon faces
a loss on his investment.  The 112-square-meter (1,200-square-foot) home, which jumped
as much as 16 percent from the purchase price of 320 million won
($280,000) in just a year, has dropped 22 percent in value from
the peak. Yoon can’t find buyers for the apartment in Yongin, 49
kilometers (30 miles) south of the capital, to pay off the 80
million won he borrowed to help pay for it.  “I am stuck; you know the price will drop more for at
least another couple of years, and yet you can’t do anything
about it,” said Yoon, 34, who works at a software development
company in southern Seoul. “What happens when the time comes
for me to pay off my debt?”  Yoon’s difficulties reflect his government’s success in
cooling the market, while property prices soar in Hong Kong,
China and Singapore. In Korea, government efforts to forestall a
property bubble and rein in record household debt have damped
prices and sent  consumer sentiment  to a 14-month low in
September.  Apartment prices in the Seoul metropolitan area have fallen
2.7 percent so far this year, the first decline in six years,
according to data from  Kookmin Bank , South Korea’s biggest
lender. The number of unsold new apartments in Seoul has
increased 16 percent, while existing apartment sales slumped 59
percent below their average of the past four years, according to
the  Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs.   Hong Kong, Singapore  Home prices are up about 15 percent in Hong Kong in 2010
and jumped 38 percent in the 12 months to the end of June in
Singapore. China’s property prices rose 9.3 percent in August
from a year earlier, even as officials crack down on speculators
and multiple home purchases.  In South Korea, the declines come even as the economy
bounces back from the global financial crisis with forecast
growth of 5.9 percent this year. The Bank of Korea raised its
forecast in July from 5.2 percent predicted in April.  The central bank will closely monitor inflation, Governor
 Kim Choong Soo  told reporters today after keeping the benchmark
rate at 2.25 percent, which he said some board members opposed.  “People are saying the  stock market  is booming and
companies are enjoying record earnings,” said Jeong Ai Nam, a
local realtor in southern Seoul. “The housing market, it’s a
totally different story. Demand has dried up.”  Debt-to-Income  Apartment prices in Seoul had increased 3.2 percent between
January and September last year, according to Kookmin Bank, as a
$52 billion stimulus package and record-low interest rates
spurred demand. Bank lending to households expanded in June last
year by the most in more than two years on demand for mortgages.  To stem the surging  household borrowing , the Financial
Supervisory Service in July 2009 said buyers of homes worth more
than 600 million won could borrow only as much as 50 percent of
the property’s value, down from 60 percent previously. Then in
September, the government tightened debt-to-income rules,
allowing banks to extend no more than 50 percent of a borrower’s
annual income to purchase homes in Seoul and 60 percent in
Incheon and Geyonggi provinces near the capital.  Apartment prices and sales then started their slump,
prompting the government of President  Lee Myung Bak  to ease some
of its curbs this year. On Aug. 29, Lee’s administration
announced a seven-month exemption to the 50 percent debt-to-
income rule in Seoul, while leaving it in force in three
southern parts of the capital -- Gangnam, Seocho and Songpa --
that it deemed “speculative zones.”  Speculative Zones  The 60 percent limit imposed outside the capital has also
been suspended until the end of March, and a nationwide waiver
on taxes for home sales was extended until the end of 2012.  The changes have yet to spur property transactions because
buyers are concerned prices may fall further, said Cho Min Yi,
head of research at  SpeedBank , a housing consulting company in
Seoul.  “It’s all about sentiment,” said Cho. “You can’t expect
the property market to recover soon while people stand pat.”  The government may not be able to take further action to
boost the market as it remains concerned about overheating
prices and household debt levels, Cho said.  South Korea’s household debt jumped 20 percent to a record
of 754.9 trillion won at the end of June, from the end of 2007,
according to the Bank of Korea. Home loans increased to 349
trillion won, up from 293 trillion won in 2007.  This makes South Korean consumers’ debt as a percentage of
their income higher than that of the U.S. and Japan, according
to Moody’s Investors Service.  ‘Nightmare’  “The high indebtedness and vulnerability of households to
a rise in interest rates are further increasing the downward
pressure on housing prices,” Moody’s said Sept. 7.  Banker Lee Gi Do bought an apartment in southeastern Seoul
for 450 million won last year and within a week his agent
offered him 7 percent more to sell the property. A year later,
the apartment’s value has dropped almost 10 percent below the
purchase price and Lee can’t find a buyer.  “My dream’s become a nightmare,” said the 33-year-old.
“Far from making money, I may struggle to pay my monthly
interest bill if the central bank raises rates more.”  The stagnant property market also has forced South Korean
builders to restructure debts after the construction industry
shrank 0.9 percent over the three months through June, the third
drop in four quarters, according to the Bank of Korea. The
decline contrasts with 1.4 percent growth in South Korea’s gross
domestic product in the period.  Bad Loans  Combined second-quarter profit at local lenders including
Kookmin Bank dropped 34 percent from a year earlier after they
set aside extra loan-loss reserves to help construction and
shipbuilding companies restructure debts, the Financial
Supervisory Service said on Aug. 3.  Moody’s expects a surge in credit losses from the
construction industry, which will weigh on Korean bank earnings,
the credit rating company said.  The household loan delinquency ratio for South Korean banks
rose to 0.78 percent in August from 0.48 percent at the end of
last year and soured mortgage loans almost doubled to 0.64
percent from 0.33 percent.  The average cost of leasing an apartment is on the rise in
the Seoul metropolitan area as potential buyers are favoring
renting for now amid concerns of further declines in home prices.
Rents in the nation have jumped 4.4 percent so far this year,
the biggest gain for the first three quarters since 2002,
according to Kookmin Bank.  Household Income  “It’s a typical bottleneck as people are delaying buying a
home and rushing into the leasing market,” said SpeedBank’s Cho.  Still, software developer Yoon says he will hold onto his
Yongin apartment for now.  “You always hear about how real estate is where the big
players invest their money in Korea; that you never go wrong
with property,” Yoon said. “That may have been true for my
parents’ generation, but not mine.”  -- With assistance from  Saeromi Shin  in Seoul. Editors:  Brett Miller ,  Andreea Papuc   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
 Bomi Lim  at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  