-- Severstal, Evraz Beating China's Steel Giants as Putin Drives Investments
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-10-14T12:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/severstal-evraz-beating-china-s-steel-giants-as-putin-drives-investments.html
OAO Severstal  and  Evraz Group SA ,
Russia’s top two steelmakers, are outperforming their largest
competitors in Asia and Europe as a drive by Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin  to expand manufacturing boosts domestic demand
for car parts, rail track and pipelines.  Severstal opened two plants near Moscow in the third
quarter to supply automakers including  Peugeot SA  and  Volkswagen
AG , who are setting up assembly lines in Russia as sales rise.
The steelmaker’s shares have soared 80 percent in Moscow trading
this year, compared with a 42 percent slump for  Hebei Iron &
Steel Co. , the listed unit of China’s biggest producer.  Selling higher-grade metal at home rather than exporting
semi-finished steel offers bigger profits for Severstal and its
Russian peers, after a jump in Chinese output and a weakening
global economy dragged down steel prices from 2008 highs.
Russian producers are benefiting from fewer export expenses and
higher domestic consumption as Putin spearheads a $1 trillion
infrastructure boom to diversify the economy.  “Investors now are more interested in Russian steel
companies’ exposure to a vibrant domestic market than their
overseas ambitions,” said  Alexander Pukhaev , an analyst at VTB
Capital in Moscow. “The shift to high-value products sold in
Russia is one of the cornerstones of the investment case
today.”  Earnings to Triple  Russia’s five biggest steelmakers will see earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization more than triple on
average from 2009 to 2012, according to analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Higher-value products sold domestically can earn three
times as much profit as semi-finished exports, said  Boris Krasnojenov , an analyst at Renaissance Capital. Steel-slab sales
contribute an average $100 a metric ton to steelmakers’ Ebitda,
while galvanized steel or thick plates earn $300 a ton, he said.
Galvanized steel is used in cars to prevent corrosion.  “The government has made this part of their strategy for
Russia’s next phase of development,” said  Chris Weafer , chief
strategist at UralSib Capital. “Moving up the value chain in
areas where Russia is already established is easier and quicker
to show results than trying to bring in new industries.”  Russia was the fourth-biggest steel producer last year,
behind China, Japan and India, according to the  World Steel
Association .  Tax Breaks  The country has offered tax breaks to foreign carmakers on
condition they buy a percentage of their parts from Russian
suppliers, a requirement the government may raise to 60 percent
from 30 percent. That may deter some overseas manufacturers,
according to Eurasia Group.  “The risk is that future foreign investors in the Russian
car industry will balk at higher localization, investment and
production requirements, and elect not to enter the market at
all -- while those already involved may find themselves at a
sharp disadvantage,” said  Alex Brideau , an analyst at the New
York-based research company.  Automakers that decide to take the risk and expand in
Russia are set to benefit from a recovery in its car sales,
forecast to rise by almost 15 percent this year to 1.67 million
units, according to estimates from the  Association of European
Businesses .  That rebound is fueled by an economic recovery that’s
projected to outpace growth in North America and Europe. Russia
has forecast 4 percent growth this year and 4.2 percent in 2011.
The comparable figure in the U.S. is a 2.5 percent expansion
next year and 1.4 percent in the euro zone, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  ‘New Phase’  Russia’s investment in high-grade automotive steel is “a
whole new phase for the country’s car industry,” Putin said
during a July visit to  OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel , Russia’s
fourth-biggest steelmaker, in Chelyabinsk.  Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel, or MMK, will spend $3 billion
over three years to boost output capacity by 60 percent, it said
Sept. 16. The company will raise the proportion of higher-value
products to 50 percent from 35 percent over the period, as
Russian demand for automotive steel will triple over the next
decade, MMK said  Oct. 1 , citing World Steel Association data.  Severstal increased its proportion of Russian sales to 37
percent of revenue in the first half from 31 percent a year
earlier. Evraz, which is upgrading a plant in the Ural Mountains
region to make high-speed rail track, raised domestic sales to
33 percent from 28 percent. Both are likely to get about 45
percent of their sales from Russia in 2012, according to
Renaissance Capital.  Stock Gains  Evraz shares have advanced 8.1 percent this year.
 ArcelorMittal  and  Posco , the world’s two largest publicly traded
steelmakers, have dropped 21 and 20 percent, respectively.
 Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. , China’s biggest publicly traded steel
producer, has declined 25 percent.  Putin’s strategy to shift the economy away from dependence
on raw materials goes across commodity classes. He’s urged oil
companies to refine more crude and export gasoline and
petrochemicals, while timber producers have built wood-
processing and pulp mills in Russia after export tariffs rose.  The government’s 10-year infrastructure investment plan
includes spending on railways, roads, airports and ports, as
well as pipelines for gas and oil, Russia’s biggest export
earner.  “Domestic steel producers will be utilizing their full
capacity and demand will be strong,” said  Timur Salikhov , an
analyst at Morgan Stanley in Moscow.  OAO Mechel , a coal and
steel producer, and Evraz will be “two key beneficiaries” of
the construction recovery, he said.  Rail Track  Evraz and Mechel are investing a combined $1.1 billion in
two plants to make rail track, anticipating an increase in
orders from OAO Russian Railways, operator of the world’s
largest railroad network.  “Selling semi-finished products abroad isn’t particularly
profitable,” said MMK’s Chief Financial Officer  Oleg Fedonin .
“Growth prospects in Russia are significantly higher.”  Evraz rose 1.3 percent to $30.48 a global depository
receipt by 12:43 p.m. in London. Severstal fell 0.3 percent to
453.70 rubles in Moscow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 