-- Shariah Mortgages Left to Guidance, Lariba in U.S. Market: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-10-14T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/shariah-mortgages-left-to-guidance-lariba-in-u-s-market-islamic-finance.html
American Finance House Lariba  and
Guidance Residential LLC have become the biggest providers of
Islamic financial services to the 7 million Muslims in the U.S.,
a market Citigroup Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc aren’t developing.  Home loans that comply with the religion’s ban on interest
rose to about $2.5 billion last year, from $2 billion in 2006,
 Yahia Abdul-Rahman , founder of Lariba in Pasadena, California,
said in an interview this month. Reston, Virginia-based Guidance
had provided more than $2 billion as of October, according to an
e-mail from the company on Oct. 6.  While Islamic mortgages are dwarfed by the total home-loan
market, Shariah-compliant services are among the fastest-growing
in the global banking industry, the Islamic Financial Services
Board, a standard-setting body, said in an April report. HSBC,
based in London, said it would focus on the Middle East, Asia
and the U.K., where the industry is expanding. New York-based
Citigroup is seeking to arrange more sukuk issuance for U.S.
companies, according to  James Griffiths , a bank spokesman.  “Many of the mega banks are retreating away from
community-based financing,” said  Abdul-Rahman , whose company
has $300 million in assets. The biggest lenders in the U.S. are
turning more to “large” corporate deals, he said.  Islamic home loans may increase to $5 billion by the end of
2010,  Abdul-Rahman  forecast. Non-Muslims will also be attracted
to this type of financing because the investment risk is shared
by the banks and borrowers, he said. Lariba and Lariba Bank of
Whittier N.A., owned by the same shareholders, lent $135 million
last year, almost double the amount in 2007, he added.  ‘Sustain Growth’  Guidance Residential saw Islamic mortgages rise 10 percent
in August and September, compared with the same period last year,
Hussam Qutub, vice president of corporate communications, said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  “Guidance has been able to sustain its growth over the
last several years and has now set the bar higher for the
Islamic home-finance industry,” according to a press release on
Oct. 4.  HSBC Amanah, the Shariah unit of Europe’s largest bank,
started Islamic banking in the U.K. in  1998 . HSBC is the second-
biggest global arranger for sukuk sales this year, while
Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. lender, ranks 13th among
issuers tracked by Bloomberg.  HSBC, Citigroup  “Islamic finance continues to be a consumer-led industry
and is firmly rooted in the emerging markets of the Middle East
and Asia,”  Razi Fakih , deputy chief executive officer of HSBC
Amanah, said in an e-mailed response to questions on Sept. 29.  Griffiths , the Hong Kong-based spokesman for Citigroup in
the Asia Pacific, said the bank is “speaking to many U.S
issuers about the attractions of the sukuk market” after
arranging a $500 million Islamic bond for Fairfield,
Connecticut-based General Electric Capital Corp. last year.  “The bank expects more U.S. issuers to tap the market in
the coming months,” Griffiths said in an e-mail Sept. 30.  Global sales of sukuk, which pay asset returns to comply
with the religion’s ban on interest, fell 22 percent to $11.8
billion this year from the same period in 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance totaled $20.2 billion in
2009, up from $14.1 billion in 2008.  GE Capital  The yield on GE Capital’s 3.875 percent sukuk due in
November 2014 rose one basis point to 3.32 percent yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The difference in yield
with similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries widened to 246 basis
points from 175 at the time of issue in November last year.  Shariah-compliant debt returned 12.3 percent so far this
year, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Index , while
bonds in developing markets gained 17 percent, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate has narrowed
17 basis points this month to 355, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . The spread shrank 112 basis points
this year.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent note due in June 2015
has dropped 20 basis points to 2.51 percent since the end of
September, according to Bloomberg data. Its yield gap with the
Dubai Department of Finance’s 6.396 percent sukuk due in
November 2014 narrowed 22 basis points this month to 350.  U.S. Muslims  Muslims in the U.S. “enjoy incomes and educational levels
that are higher than the American average,” President  Barack Obama , who estimated the Muslim population at “nearly” seven
million, said during a speech in Cairo last year. Households
earned $52,029 annually in 2008, according to the  U.S. Census
Bureau , while the Central Intelligence Agency  forecast  in a 2007
report that Muslims accounted for less than one percent of the
307 million population.  Lariba helped the Federal National Mortgage Association,
known as Fannie Mae, issue $2.3 million of sukuk in 2003, in
what Abdul-Rahman said was the first Islamic bond in the U.S.  To comply with the religion’s ban on interest, banks
typically buy property on behalf of the borrower in Shariah-
compliant home financing and resell it back at a profit, with
repayments made in installments. The  Federal Reserve  said total
mortgage lending stood at $14 trillion in the second quarter.  The Islamic finance industry has been growing 20 percent
annually since 2000, led by the Middle East and Southeast Asia,
according to the IFSB  report  issued in April. Malaysia’s $93
billion of Shariah-compliant assets account for 19.6 percent of
the total industry, according to Bank Negara Malaysia’s website.  Debt Burden  The only institutions in the U.S. offering retail Islamic
banking services are Lariba, Guidance Residential, a unit of
 Guidance Financial Group LLC ,  Devon Bank  in Chicago, and
Michigan-based  University Bank , said Abdul-Rahman, who visited
Kuala Lumpur in September as a member of a seven-jury panel for
the  Royal Award for Islamic Finance .  Islamic banks need to appreciate the “sensitivity” of the
U.S. market, said Abdul-Rahman. “The U.S. is a very difficult
market as there is a separation of church and state and to claim
that you are Islamic you are working yourself up for potential
issues. We need to make it global to all people,” he said.  Abdul-Rahman founded Lariba in 1987 to attract American
Muslims who had shunned conventional banking for religious
reasons. Lariba started promoting itself as an interest-free
financing company as opposed to an Islamic bank in 2001 to
promote the business beyond the Muslim community, he said.
Currently 90 percent of its customers are non-Muslims.  Islamic banks will attract customers in the U.S. because
they offer “a new style of life that is free of a heavy debt
burden,” said Abdul-Rahman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 