-- Shekel Rally Presages 3.7% Decline, Forex Capital Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2010-10-13T06:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/shekel-rally-presages-3-7-decline-forex-capital-says-technical-analysis.html
Israel’s shekel is poised to weaken
as much as 3.7 percent in the coming week on signs the currency
has climbed too far after surging to a two-year high against the
dollar, according to Forex Capital Markets LLC.  The shekel rallied 4.2 percent in the past month as the
dollar weakened against most currencies on bets the Federal
Reserve will inject more money into the economy to ensure the
recovery stays on track, a policy known as quantitative easing.
The currency soared to 3.5623 on Oct. 7, the strongest intraday
level since October 2008, before ending the session 0.5 percent
lower.  The dollar began a “bullish reversal” last week, marking
“a good time to watch for a reversal in direction in the shekel
trading,”  Joel Kruger , a Jerusalem-based technical currency
strategist at FXCM, said in a phone interview.  The Dollar Index, which measures the U.S. currency against
the euro, yen, pound, Canadian dollar, Swedish krona and Swiss
franc, is little changed since Oct. 7, halting its decline after
slumping to a nine-month low.  The shekel’s 14-day relative strength index, a gauge of how
rapidly prices gain or decline, is at about 27, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, near the 30 level that indicates it
has climbed too much against the dollar. The currency will
probably drop to its 20-day moving average of 3.6592 per dollar
and head toward a support level at 3.75, he said.  “The market has all but priced in this round of
quantitative easing,” and investors are concerned there isn’t
room for additional dollar weakness, Kruger said.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index. A moving average is a
technical indicator that displays the average value of a
security over a period of time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wainer  in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  