-- Showa Shell Rises After Agreement on Solar Panels With General Electric
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2010-10-13T06:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/showa-shell-rises-in-tokyo-after-solar-panel-agreement-with-ge.html
Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K.  rose the
most in more than six months in Tokyo trading after General
Electric Co. said it will work with the Japanese company to make
solar panels.  Solar Frontier, a subsidiary of Tokyo-based Showa Shell,
will supply GE with thin-film solar modules while the U.S.
company will provide technology for power generation, a
statement said. Showa Shell rose 4 percent to 656 yen, the
biggest gain since April 2.  GE has spent more than $1 billion on research and
development of renewable power since acquiring Enron Corp.’s
wind division out of bankruptcy in 2002. Global manufacturing
capacity in solar panels is set to rise to 30,000 megawatts by
2013 from 10,104 megawatts last year, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  “It’s a beneficial partnership for Showa Shell,”  Reiji Ogino , an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities
Co., said by telephone today. “With GE’s global marketing
network, Showa Shell can accelerate its solar panels sales
worldwide as the market grows.”  Solar Frontier  is building the world’s  biggest  photovoltaic
factory in Miyazaki on the southwestern island of Kyushu to meet
the growing demand, according to the statement released on its
website.  Most solar panels convert sunlight into electricity using
silicon-based photovoltaic cells. Thin-film panels are made by
coating glass or other material with cadmium telluride or CIGS.  They account for about 15 percent of the $28 billion global
solar-panel market and have been gaining as prices rise for
crystalline silicon, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net . 