-- Shyamalan Regrets 3-D Ignorance; ‘Most Wanted’: Hollywood Buzz
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2010-10-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/shyamalan-regrets-3-d-ignorance-cambodia-s-most-wanted-hollywood-buzz.html
M. Knight Shyamalan  regrets not
knowing more about 3-D while making “The Last Airbender.”  Shyamalan decided to convert “Airbender” to 3-D using
computers after writing and filming it as a conventional movie.
As a result, some scenes weren’t as good as they might have
been, he said.  “I wish I learned everything much, much earlier,”
Shyamalan said at the 3-D Entertainment Summit in Los Angeles.
“Movies like ‘Airbender’ take three years to make and in the
evolution of 3-D, that’s a long time ago.”  For 3-D to work well, scenes must be written and physically
set up to make use of the depth that the format allows. In
“Airbender,” for example, hurtling balls of fire couldn’t
reach out toward the audience because the effects were created
for 2-D, Shyamalan said.  “ The Last Airbender ,” based on a cartoon show, tells the
story of a boy who uses his power over the elements to save his
world from tyranny. Shyamalan, 40, decided the immersive aspects
of 3-D would help draw viewers into the fantasy.  “I thought, will this help make the audience suspend
disbelief the way they do with animated movies?” he said. “It
didn’t come without huge hesitation.”  The Paramount Pictures movie has earned $312 million
worldwide, about double its $150 million production cost,
according to  Box Office Mojo .  Shyamalan, who earned six Oscar nominations for “ The Sixth
Sense ,” is trying to decide whether to use 3-D for a science-
fiction film he is currently writing. The director said
audiences may not accept a 3-D movie that isn’t full of action
and special effects.  “I see the movie as quiet and eerie,” he said. “But what
are their expectations when the glasses go on? For me, a
filmmaker who makes his living on insinuation and quiet, it’s a
difficult choice.”  ‘Most Wanted’  “ America’s Most Wanted ” will accompany authorities to
Cambodia next month to investigate the country’s child sex
trade.  The syndicated show, produced by 20th Century Fox, is
broadening its scope beyond U.S. borders, host and executive
producer  John Walsh  said in an interview. The first episode of
the fall season dealt with the search for  Adnan Shukrijumah ,
accused of planning terror attacks on New York.  “We really have become ‘The World’s Most Wanted,’” Walsh
said in a telephone interview. “We’re sort of becoming the
court of last result internationally.”  “America’s Most Wanted” crews will travel to Cambodia
with U.S. federal marshals,  Interpol  officials and
representatives of the U.K.’s  Child Exploitation and Online
Protection Centre , Walsh said.  The show, which averages 5.3 million viewers per episode,
started its 24th season after laying off 17 of about 70 staff
members in August. Walsh blamed the cuts on declines in
television advertising.  “It was very, very painful to reduce the staff,” Walsh
said. “It’s a harsh reality in these economic times.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 