-- Signmaker VictoryStore.com Customizes Politics for Front Lawns
-- B y   K a r e n   E .   K l e i n
-- 2010-10-13T17:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/signmaker-victorystore-com-customizes-politics-for-front-lawns.html
Steve Grubbs was an Iowa state legislator
and chairman of the state’s Republican Party before launching
his specialty sign company,  VictoryStore.com , in Davenport, Iowa
in 2000. His wife, Kelli, is an attorney and co-owner. She’s
also a partner in their political consulting business, Victory
Enterprises. They decided to start their product-based business
when political clients kept asking where they could buy yard
signs.  VictoryStore.com employs 90 and is on track for $20 million in
2010, its best year ever, up from $11 million in 2009. The
Grubbs expect to put 5 million campaign signs on American front
lawns during this election season -- although not all come in
familiar rectangular shapes. They also sell customized gift
items, greeting cards, and business signs through 10 online
stores. About half their revenues come from political clients of
all persuasions and a quarter each from consumers and business-
to-business sales.  Steve Grubbs, 45, spoke with Bloomberg.com contributor Karen E.
Klein for this as-told-to Entrepreneur’s Journal:  In the early days, we were the first ones on the Web and we grew
like mad. We’d double our business every single year. But the
growth started to slow down in 2006 or so, when so many of our
competitors got on the Web. We needed to figure out a way to
differentiate ourselves.  I went to a trade show in New Orleans and saw new technology
that allowed us to cut signs in any shape. We could do apple-
shaped signs for school board candidates, gavels for judges, and
stars for sheriff candidates. Someone who wants to create a
messaging strategy can buy our 24-square-foot head of  Nancy Pelosi  with a 24-square-foot speech bubble next to her, thanking
the local congressman for voting with her. Outside of San
Francisco, that doesn’t go over very well.  You find a highway or a busy street with a traffic count of
25,000 cars a day and you can get a quarter-million drive-bys in
10 days for a sign set that will cost you $100. A large
billboard costs $1,000.  I spent $300,000 on a digital press in 2007 and added a $100,000
digital cutter in 2010. Our customers create their signs online
themselves, uploading their own text. We’ve uploaded 10,000
templates they can use or they can upload their own graphic art.
The designs are cut out of plastic. Our digital processes allow
us to eliminate graphic designers. About half of our employees
do production and the other half work [research and
development], sales, and administration.  When we first started, we concentrated on the political
business. In an election year, we’d have six strong months of
revenue and then about a 50 percent drop for the other six
months. In non-election years, we’d have about a 25 percent
overall decline in revenue.  It’s very difficult to manage those drops in cash flow, so we
set a goal to diversify our post-election sales. We established
10 additional companies like PersonalizedWineGifts.com,
BigFunnyCards.com, and CarnivalFunTees.com. Our intention is to
continue to grow new product lines. We’ve purchased five new
printing devices this year, and with this new small business
bill we will probably purchase more equipment before the year is
out.  In 2008 a lot of money got spent on the election. We made $15
million. But our 2009 revenues were horrible. People bought
fewer gifts, businesses bought fewer advertising posters, and it
was an off-year for elections. What really fell off were our
business sales. The contractors who buy signs, like Joe’s
Painting Service, were not spending money on advertising.  When recession hit, I had to lay off our marketing person and do
it myself. We reduced our workforce about 20 percent in ’08. But
we’re back up to where we were before; 2010 will be the best
year in our company by far.  We have new products, new technology, and better marketing. This
year, we adopted a PURL strategy, which means “personalized
URL.” On our website, we create a personal line of products for
every candidate in America. Our mailer goes out to all the
35,000 candidates who file for election. It includes a link to
their personal page on our site. When they log on, they see
signs that are designed for them and ready to order. Normally
this time of year, their order will be out the door in two or
three days.  That marketing strategy has been very successful for us. In five
years, I hope to have a $50 million company.  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen E. Klein at
 Karen@KarenEKlein.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  