-- Slovenia's NLB Says it Will Sell Assets and Lower Capital Requirement
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2010-10-13T15:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/slovenia-s-nlb-says-it-will-sell-assets-and-lower-capital-requirement.html
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.,
Slovenia’s biggest bank, will shrink operations and dispose of
assets in order to reduce the amount of capital needed to
restore its financial strength.  “The proposed capital increase is lower than previously
announced with the rest of the funds needed coming from assets
sales, including the stake in  Banka Celje d.d. ,” the Ljubljana-
based lender said in a filing to the city stock exchange.  The bank now seeks 250 million euros ($348 million) instead
of an original 400 million euros envisaged in July. The decision
will require the approval of shareholders at a meeting on Nov.
25. NLB will also scale back operations in Austria, Bulgaria,
the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Germany, Italy and Serbia and sell
its 41 percent stake in Banka Celje, the seventh biggest bank by
assets in the former Yugoslav nation.  NLB needs more capital as mounting bad loans from the worst
recession in Slovenia in two decades weigh on its earnings. The
lender set aside 118.5 million euros for the first half to cover
non-performing loans.  Nova Ljubljanska had its rating cut by Moody’s Investors
Service on Sept. 28 along with Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d.
and  Abanka Vipa d.d. , the country’s second- and third-biggest
lenders. NLB, in which the Slovenian government and KBC Groep NV
of Belgium are the two single largest investors, barely passed
Europe-wide stress tests in July in a simulated scenario of a
worsening global economy.  At the time, the bank said it needed 600 million euros of
additional capital to repay debt of as much as 700 million euros
in the next three years.  -- Editors:  Tim Farrand ,  James Cone   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Boris Cerni  in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  