-- Societe Generale Sued in Singapore for Currency Loss
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-10-13T08:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/societe-generale-accused-of-hiding-currency-loss-in-fraud-suit.html
Two  Societe Generale  SA Singapore
private bankers, making wrong bets on currency values, almost
wiped out a client’s $10 million account and for years attempted
to hide the losses, the investor claims in a lawsuit.  Chan Leong Cheng, a resident of Perth, Western Australia,
yesterday sued Societe Generale’s Singapore private bank and the
two executives in Singapore’s High Court in a bid to recover $8
million of the losses.  “The defendants’ management of the assets in the account
created massive losses,” Chan said in court papers. The bankers
“made fraudulent representations to the plaintiff for a long
period of time.”  Societe Generale, France’s second-biggest bank, suspended
Jenny Liew Marn Leng, an executive director, and her direct
supervisor Lilian Ang, after the losses were discovered, Chan
said in the court papers. Both bankers had assured Chan for
several years the balance in the account was about $8 million
and provided statements reflecting that, even though the account
had been almost depleted, Chan said.  Vanessa Lee, a Singapore-based spokeswoman at Societe
Generale, couldn’t immediately comment on the lawsuit.  Ang to Counterclaim  Ang intends to defend the claim “vigorously” and will
make a counterclaim against Chan, her lawyer Manjit Singh said
today. Liew wasn’t immediately available to respond, Singh,
whose firm is also representing her, said.  Chan’s lawyer Christopher Daniel said today his client was
confident of his case.  Liew confessed that the actual value of the investment
account was about $260,000 on May 11, Chan said in the court
papers.  She “was aware that the funds in the account were meant as
reserves for the plaintiff’s children,” according to the
lawsuit. “She was sorry for her actions and felt extremely
bad.”  Liew suggested Chan recover his losses by buying insurance,
according to the lawsuit.  Ang told Chan on May 12 that she found out about Liew’s
conduct at the beginning of the year and instead of informing
him made further trades “in a vain attempt to recoup the
massive losses,” according to the lawsuit.  Chan is seeking $7.9 million, the difference between $8.2
million the bankers claimed was in the account on March 3 and
the actual holdings of $287,550 in cash and stocks.  The case is Chan Leong Cheng vs. Societe Generale Bank &
Trust Singapore Branch, Liew Marn Leng Jenny and Lilian Ang,
S780/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  