-- South Africa's Rand Gains Hindering Export of Corn Surplus, Grain SA Says
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-10-13T15:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/south-africa-s-rand-gains-hindering-export-of-corn-surplus-grain-sa-says.html
South African exports of surplus
grains, mainly corn, have been made “uneconomical” by a
strengthening of the local currency, according to local farmers
group Grain SA.  Farmers are in “despair” over low and volatile corn
prices, the group said in an e-mailed statement today. All South
African grain crops are in surplus, or face impending surpluses,
except for wheat, it said.  The local currency has strengthened 15 percent from a low
in May this year to trade at 6.84 against the dollar as of 4:06
p.m. in Johannesburg. Foreign buyers pay more for the same
volume of grain when South Africa’s currency gains.  “Internationally, prices trend higher but the South
African producer is excluded from the same because of a strong
local currency,” Grain SA said. “They now fall victim to the
same external factors as are the major export industries.”  Together with the government, farmers are trying to find
foreign markets, including Russia and China, to sell excess corn
to after better-than-expected weather boosted yields. Grain SA
expects the industry to end the season in April next year with
corn stocks of 3.7 million metric tons, 72 percent more than
this year.  White corn prices have fallen 15 percent during the past 12
months on the South African Futures Exchange.  White corn for December delivery, the most actively traded
contract on the exchange, rose to 1,299 rand ($191) a ton today.
South Africa produces more white corn than yellow corn. White
corn is used to make a type of meal that is a staple food in the
country.  “Current price volatility in the maize market is the
result of many factors, and it is leaving the primary sector
vulnerable and in a state of despair,” Grain SA said. It is now
“cheaper to buy maize than to produce the crop.” In South
Africa, corn is known as maize.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  