-- South Africa Wants `Room' So Rand Cushions Economy, Pravin Gordhan Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-10-13T12:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/south-africa-wants-room-so-rand-cushions-economy-pravin-gordhan-says.html
(Corrects spelling of minister’s name in fifth paragraph.)  South Africa needs an exchange rate
policy that can help protect the economy against global
financial turmoil, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  If conditions worsen, the government needs to be able “to
respond and enable the exchange rate to cushion the economy,”
Gordhan said in a written reply to a question in Parliament in
Cape Town today. “Over time we want to achieve a more
competitive real exchange rate.”  Near-zero interest rates in the U.S., Japan and the
European Union have fuelled demand for high-yielding assets in
South Africa, which has a 6 percent benchmark interest rate.
That has contributed to the rand’s 38 percent gain against the
dollar since the beginning of last year and undermined the
competitiveness of the country’s exports.  Labor unions have called for lower interest rates and a
weaker rand to create jobs. South Africa’s first recession in 17
years cut employment by 870,000 in 2009 and pushed the jobless
rate to 25.3 percent in the second quarter of this year.  Gordhan defended the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent
inflation target, which unions have blamed for keeping rates
unnecessarily high. He said it has “enabled a steady reduction
in domestic interest rates” that will “lower debt service
costs and support demand for credit in the  economy .”  The National Treasury has warned that the global economic
recovery remains fragile and that South Africa is still
vulnerable to a slowdown in the rest of the world.  Economic Resilience  The government’s contingency plans to deal with a possible
“double-dip” recession form part of a broader strategy to make
the economy more resilient to external shocks and function more
efficiently, Gordhan said.  There will be continued emphasis on “infrastructure
spending, particularly in energy, transport and communications,
which should lower the cost of South Africans doing business,”
he said. The National Treasury “will adjust policy as necessary
to maintain macroeconomic stability and to support a feasible
economic growth rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 