-- South Africa, Supplier to Ermenegildo Zegna, Acts to Save Angora Goat Herd
-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n   a n d   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-10-13T15:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/south-africa-supplier-to-ermenegildo-zegna-acts-to-save-angora-goat-herd.html
Mohair South Africa, which promotes
an industry that produces 54 percent of the world’s supply of
the fiber, will subsidize sales to preserve the world’s biggest
Angora goat herd, which supplies Italian suit-makers such as
Ermenegildo Zegna SpA.  The 29 percent gain in the rand against the dollar since
the beginning of 2009 to a near three-year high and a halt to
exports of mohair to China after an outbreak of Rift Valley
fever is threatening the existence of the country’s 865,000-
strong Angora goat herd, Deon Saayman, general manager of  Mohair
South Africa , said in an interview today.  “We took the decision to introduce these measures because
of the very real risk of more producers making the decision to
opt-out of mohair production,” Saayman said from the coastal
city of Port Elizabeth, where South Africa’s Mohair auctions are
held.  The industry decided at the fourth sale of the season
yesterday to set a floor price 45 percent for adult mohair above
the 70.85 rand ($10.36) per kilogram average after a 9 percent
decline from a sale on Sept. 28, Mohair South Africa said in an
e-mailed statement.  Under the arrangement, Mohair Pools, which pools mohair
produces by farmers for sale, will use funds from the Mohair
Trust to buy the goat hair and stockpile it.  “Essentially Mohair Pools will buy and pay for the adult
mohair from producers and hold it until the price moves above
the break-even figure,” Saayman said. “It could then be sold
and any additional profits realized will be paid to the
producers.”  Goat Competition  In August South  Africa  stopped exports of mohair and wool
to China because it couldn’t guarantee that they were from areas
free of Rift Valley fever. The disease causes goats and sheep to
miscarry and can spread to humans, where it is occasionally
fatal. Farmers’ profits are also being cut by an ongoing
drought. One hundred metric tons of mohair is also being sold by
a buyer for below market prices, Saayman said, without
identifying the company. At yesterday’s sale 108.7 tons were
offered for sale.  Ermenegildo Zegna, which sells suits  starting  at about
$2,000, has sponsored an annual competition in South Africa for
the best quality product since 1970, according to Mohair South
Africa. Zegna is opposed to the measures.  ‘Regret The Decision’  “We were amazed. This isn’t the solution and will just
delay the problem,”  Paolo Zegna , the chairman of the company,
said in a telephone interview. “There’s risk of oversupply. As
sponsors we regret the decision because this is a market we have
tried to help.”  Zegna has stocks of mohair and also buys top quality mohair
so won’t be affected by the floor price, he said.  Angora goats were first introduced to South Africa from
Nepal in 1838 and the national herd has shrunk from 2.9 million
in 1988 as farmers switch to game and sheep rearing. The animals
are mostly kept in the hills of the Eastern Cape Province and
Lesotho, Australia, New Zealand, Turkey, Argentina and Texas
also produce mohair.  Three more mohair auctions are left this sales season.
Sales will restart on Feb. 15 next year.  “We’re hoping this message will have a stabilizing
effect,” Saayman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lauren van der Westhuizen  at  at
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net .
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at  at  asguazzin@bloomberg.net  