-- South African Nationalization Call is `Ploy' to Save Investors, Union Says
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-10-13T12:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/south-african-nationalization-call-is-ploy-to-save-investors-union-says.html
The call by the youth wing of South
Africa’s ruling party for the nationalization of mines may be a
“ploy” to rescue black investors who are in financial trouble,
the president of the country’s biggest labor union said.  “We know that some of those people could not finance their
agreements,” National Union of Mineworkers President  Senzeni Zokwana  told reporters in Johannesburg today. “So this may be a
ploy to bail them out.”  African National Congress Youth League President  Julius Malema  has made repeated calls for mine nationalization. NUM,
which represents about 300,000 workers, last week said the ANC
must rein in Malema for his comments to avoid damaging the
country’s reputation. South Africa has the world’s largest
platinum and manganese resources.  “Black ownership in mines does not go anything above 3
percent, so why would we want to bail out those companies?”
Floyd Shivambu, a spokesman for the Youth League said by mobile
phone today. NUM has investments in mining companies through
employee programs so it would be in the union’s interest to
oppose nationalization, he said.  The ANC agreed at its National General Council meeting,
which ended on Sept. 24, to study nationalizing mines and other
key industries over the next two years. Malema has argued that
South Africa doesn’t derive enough benefit from mining, which
generates 30 percent of export revenue.  ‘Burnt Fingers’  Nchakha Moloi, chairman of the South African Mining
Development Association, said last month that black investors
own “less than 5 percent” of local mines, citing a study done
on its behalf. The 2004 Mining Charter compelled mining
companies to sell 15 percent of their South African assets to
black investors by the end of 2009 and 26 percent by 2014.  “Tenderpreneurs” who have “burnt their fingers” in
mining transactions may also be behind the drive for
nationalization, Zokwana said. Tenderpreneurs is a term used in
South Africa to describe politicians and business owners who
make money illegally by awarding or receiving government
contracts.  Instead of debating nationalization, South Africa should
focus on when a proposed state-owned mining company will start
operating and what form it should take, Zokwana said.
Partnerships between the state-owned company and private
companies are possible, as building mines are costly, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 