-- South African Retail Sales Growth Slows as World Cup Spending Effect Wanes
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-13T10:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/south-african-retail-sales-rose-4-6-in-august-as-consumer-prices-eased.html
South African retail sales growth
slowed to an annual 4.6 percent in August, almost half the pace
in the previous month, undermining the recovery of Africa’s
biggest economy.  Sales  growth eased from a revised 8 percent in July,
Pretoria-based  Statistics South Africa  said on its website
today. The  median estimate  of eight economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 8.5 percent for August. Sales fell a seasonally
adjusted 1.4 percent in the month.  Consumer spending eased after the soccer World Cup boosted
sales of food, drinks and clothing in June and July. Consumers
account for two-thirds of demand in the economy and a slump in
spending may curb economic growth, which slowed to an annualized
3.2 percent in the second quarter.  “This shows the sluggish underlying recovery that is going
on once the World Cup effect fell away,”  Peter Attard Montalto ,
an emerging markets economist at Nomura International Plc in
London, said in a note to clients. Sales may get support in the
second half of the year from “credit extensions and a slow turn
in the labor market,” he said.  The rand was at 6.8366 against the dollar as of 12:05 p.m.
in Johannesburg, little changed from 6.8342 before the data was
released. The currency has rallied 12 percent against the dollar
since June 1, fueling demand for cheaper imports of clothing and
furniture.  Slower Growth  Manufacturing data, released yesterday, also signaled
slower economic growth in the third quarter. Factory output,
which accounts for 15 percent of the economy, rose an annual 5.3
percent in August, the slowest pace in six months, as strikes
disrupted output at carmakers and the stronger rand curbed
export demand.  The Reserve Bank cut its benchmark interest  rate  by half a
percentage point to 6 percent last month, the eighth reduction
since December 2008, to help spur the economy.  “Chances of another cut have been boosted by the weak
retail sales and manufacturing production numbers as well as the
strong rand, against the backdrop of a subdued inflation
environment,” said  Isaac Matshego , an economist at Nedbank
Group Ltd. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 