-- Einhorn Says St. Joe Needs ‘Substantial’ Writedowns
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-10-13T20:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/st-joe-falls-after-einhorn-says-property-developer-needs-to-impair-assets.html
St. Joe Co.’s shares plunged after  David Einhorn , who profited from bets against Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008, said the Florida real-estate firm must
take “substantial” asset-impairment charges and that further
building will drive the stock price to zero.  “The best properties have been sold, many lots were sold
to speculators during the boom, and when the boom ended,
business essentially stopped,” Einhorn, who runs hedge-fund
operator Greenlight Capital Inc., said today at the Value
Investing Congress in New York. “There’s little evidence of how
Joe spent so much money on these developments. Many developments
are ghost towns and little value remains.”  St. Joe, based in WaterSound, Florida, retreated 9.7
percent to $22.16 at 4 p.m. in New York after falling as much as
11 percent, the most intraday since December 2008. The shares
have declined 23 percent this year.  “It is important to understand that an investment in  St.
Joe  is an investment in a company that has a virtually debt free
balance sheet and owns approximately 577,000 acres of land
concentrated primarily in Northwest Florida,” the company said
in a statement issued after markets closed. “We continue to
focus on the execution of our strategic plan in order to
maximize the value of our assets.”  Untouched Land  David Childers, St. Joe’s vice president for finance,
didn’t respond to e-mails and phone messages seeking more
specific answers to Einhorn’s criticisms.  The company is accounting for untouched land as developed,
Einhorn said. Also, St. Joe’s RiverTown  community  is a
“moonscape,” and WaterSound is empty, he said.  “Joe’s highest and best use is to return to a rural land
company,” he said. “Management should sell the company, but it
can’t because the stock price is too high.”  While Einhorn didn’t say how much he’s betting against St.
Joe, he said he will lose a lot of money should his thesis prove
wrong.  Originally a timber and paper producing company, St. Joe
moved its headquarters from Jacksonville to be closer to its
developments on Florida’s  Gulf Coast  near Panama City. St. Joe
sponsored the Northwest  Florida  Beaches International Airport,
which opened May 23, the first new international airport in the
U.S. in 15 years. It owns 300,000 acres within 40 miles of the
airport, where it plans commercial and residential developments.  The company was hit by Florida’s real estate collapse and
the threats posed by the Deepwater Horizon  oil spill  in the  Gulf
of Mexico . St. Joe’s shares fell from a high of $37.13 on April
29, when oil spewing from the BP Plc well threatened its
waterfront properties, including WaterSound and WaterColor.  “Management is trying to distract investors by blaming the
oil spill and hoping for a legal lottery windfall,” Einhorn
said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;  John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 