-- Standard Chartered's $5.2 Billion Rights Issue Starts Capital Race
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-10-13T15:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/standard-chartered-plans-to-raise-5-2-billion-of-funds-in-rights-offering.html
Standard Chartered Plc ’s 3.3
billion-pound ($5.2 billion) rights offer may mark the start of
a rush among European banks to raise more capital than the
minimum required by international regulators under Basel III.  The share sale will increase the British lender’s Core Tier
1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, by two
percentage points to more than 10 percent, Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Sands  said on a conference call today. Banks must
have a ratio of at least 7 percent under the new capital rules.  “This move will put other, larger banks under pressure to
raise capital,” said  Andrew Lim , a London-based analyst at
Matrix Corporate Capital LLP with a “buy” rating on Standard
Chartered. It “is the first bank to raise money for regulatory
purposes. Standard Chartered therefore marks the beginning of
the race to improve ratios.”  Lenders are raising surplus capital as their regulators
weigh whether to force the largest banks to hold more capital
than the minimum agreed by international regulators in Basel
last month. Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s largest lender, raised
10.2 billion euros ($14.2 billion) on Oct. 6. Spain’s  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA , Banco Santander SA and Italy’s
UniCredit SpA are among firms most likely to follow,  Lim  said.  Shareholders will be offered one new share at 1,280 pence
for every eight they already own, the London-based bank said.
That’s a third less than yesterday’s closing price. Temasek
Holdings Pte, Standard Chartered’s  largest shareholder  with a
17.7 percent stake, will subscribe to its portion of the sale.  Shares Drop  Standard Chartered was  down  1.7 percent at 1,876 pence at
the close of London trading, the biggest decline in the 54-
member Bloomberg  Europe Banks Index . The stock has gained 19
percent this year, beating the FTSE 100 Index’s 6 percent gain.  Some countries and policy makers are urging standards above
the Basel III minimum for the world’s largest lenders. A Swiss
government-appointed panel last week proposed the first capital
surcharge on too-big-to-fail banks, saying  UBS AG  and Credit
Suisse Group AG need to hold almost double the capital required
under Basel III rules.  The offering is a “pre-emptive strike,” said  Richard Hunter , head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc, a Bristol,
England-based stockbroker. “Barclays is potentially being seen
as the next one who might need to make a similar announcement to
improve their capital buffer.”  Barclays CEO-designate  Robert Diamond  said on Sept. 29 that
while Basel III rules will affect the bank’s ability to generate
earnings, it won’t need additional funding from shareholders.  Barclays Drops  “We have enough equity capital and it is not our objective
to turn to shareholders for more,” Diamond told a conference.  Barclays fell 0.9 percent to 292 pence.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  was down 0.2 percent at 47.53 pence, while
Lloyds Banking Group Plc was unchanged at 72.6 pence.  “We would be nervous of anyone claiming that RBS and
Lloyds will have excess capital in two years time,”  Bruce Packard , a London-based bank analyst at Seymour Pierce, wrote in
a note to clients today.  RBS had a Core Tier 1 ratio of 8.5 percent at the end of
June compared with 9 percent for Lloyds.  Barclays  had a Core
Tier 1 ratio of 10 percent.  Standard Chartered’s offering will enable the bank to
increase lending and so-called risk-weighted assets, while
maintaining sufficient capital under future regulation, the bank
said. RBS and Lloyds, 83 percent and 41 percent government-owned
respectively, plan to instead shrink their balance sheets.  ‘Not a War Chest’  “This is not a war chest for acquisitions,” Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Sands , 48, said on a conference call
today. “This is a strategy primarily for organic growth.” He
didn’t rule out “smaller, bolt-on acquisitions.”  Standard Chartered said in a separate statement that it had
“record levels of income and profits to the end of September.”
Revenue in the third quarter was above the first half run-rate,
the lender said. The bank posted a record first-half profit of
$2.15 billion in 2010 as provisions for bad loans fell.  Temasek , Singapore’s state-owned investment company,
invested in Standard Chartered’s 1.8 billion-pound rights offer
in December 2008, three months after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. sparked a global financial panic. Unlike
U.K. rivals like RBS, Standard Chartered didn’t require a
government bailout.  Aberdeen Asset Management  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc, Standard Chartered’s third-
biggest investor according to Bloomberg data, is likely to
exercise its right to buy stock in the sale, subject to a final
meeting with management, said  James Laing , deputy head of U.K.
and European equities at the U.K.’s biggest independent fund
manager.  “Standard Chartered is a prudently run bank wanting to
improve its strong capital position to continue with strong
organic growth in Asia,” he said in a telephone interview.  JPMorgan Cazenove, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG are
managing the share sale. Fees paid to the firms arranging the
sale will total more than $100 million, Finance Director  Richard Meddings  said on the conference call today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 