-- State Street Says Pound is Cheap, Targets $1.70 Within The Next 12 Months
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-13T14:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/state-street-says-pound-is-cheap-targets-1-70-within-the-next-12-months.html
The pound is undervalued against the
dollar and euro, and will probably appreciate over the next year
after “near-term pain” from government spending cuts,
according to State Street Global Advisors Inc.  The pound is about 15 percent below the level it should be
against the dollar and 20 percent against the euro, said  Collin Crownover , the Boston-based head of currency management at State
Street, which oversees $83 billion in assets. The British
currency may strengthen to $1.70 and to 80 pence per euro in 12
months from $1.58 and 88 pence now, he said.  “We are not saying there’s a fantastic story in the pound,
but at least its fundamentals are looking better than the dollar
and the euro,” Crownover said in an interview, citing the
company’s value model. “The U.K. will be rewarded for its
austerity measures, although there might be some short-term pain
from fiscal consolidation.”  The pound lost 7.1 percent against the euro since the end
of June and declined 6 percent against the dollar on speculation
that Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s efforts to reduce the
country’s record budget deficit will hurt growth. Conservative
finance minister  George Osborne  will unveil details of the
spending cuts on Oct. 20.  “Our view is that the austerity measures will have a
milder impact on the U.K. economy than the market thinks,” said
Crownover.  “Given the anemic growth in the euro zone outside Germany,
it’s hard to justify the euro’s current strength. And its debt
problem hasn’t gone away. If anything I would argue it’s getting
slightly worse.”  The pound was little changed against the euro at 88.09
pence per euro as of 2:38 p.m. in London. It traded at $1.5828
from $1.5809 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  