-- Muni Bond Issues Worth $16.8 Billion Facing U.S. Voter Approval Next Month
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2010-10-13T15:31:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/states-cities-seeking-u-s-voter-approval-for-16-8-billion-in-bond-sales.html
U.S. states and municipalities from
Maryland to Alaska will ask voters to approve $16.8 billion in
bonds Nov. 2, the lowest general-election amount in a
congressional year since 1996, Ipreo Holdings LLC data show.  Lawmakers in  Alaska  seek to issue $997 million of bonds,
the most of any ballot question this year, to fund mortgages for
veterans, while voters in  Washington  state will consider $505
million for energy projects at schools, according to New York-
based Ipreo, a market-research company. Issuers asked for
authority to borrow almost $67 billion in the general election
two years ago and $79 billion in 2006, the largest amounts since
1946, according to data compiled by Thomson Reuters.  In 1996, voters considered $16.6 billion in bonding
authorizations, Thomson Reuters data show. General-election
ballots typically contain more debt in even years, when
congressional elections are held, than in odd-numbered ones. In
2009, governments sought approval for $9.8 billion.  “The public is getting nervous about all the debt being
accumulated in this country,” said  John Matsusaka,  president of
the  Initiative & Referendum Institute  at the University of
Southern California in Los Angeles. “The appetite has been
diminished.”  The $67 billion sought two years ago was driven by
 California , which isn’t putting any statewide bond questions
before voters on Nov. 2.  Also among this year’s largest bond-ballot questions are
$515 million for schools in San Antonio, $349 million for  Ohlone
College  in California and $285 million for Baltimore County,
Maryland, according to Ipreo.  Colorado Bond Ban  In  Colorado , a ballot initiative called  Amendment 61  would
ban state borrowing. A Denver Post  survey  released last week
showed that 10 percent of likely voters supported the measure,
49 percent opposed it and 40 percent were undecided.  Statewide bond questions also are on the decline because of
federal stimulus payments to the states, said Jennie Bowser, an
elections-policy analyst at the  National Conference of State
Legislatures , based in Denver. President Barack Obama’s $814
billion economic-stimulus  package  included money for capital
projects typically financed with bond debt.  “Some projects didn’t make it to the ballot because they
have been funded with stimulus money,” Bowser said.  Following is a list of the largest bond proposals on
ballots for Nov. 2, according to the latest Ipreo data:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 