-- Statoil Says Won't Resume Drilling in Gulf of Mexico Until `Early Spring'
-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 2010-10-13T11:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/statoil-says-won-t-resume-drilling-in-gulf-until-early-spring-.html
Statoil ASA , Norway’s biggest oil
and gas producer, won’t resume drilling operations in the Gulf
of Mexico until “early spring” at the earliest, after the U.S.
authorities lifted a ban yesterday.  Statoil, the fourth-largest leaseholder in the Gulf, had
two operations underway when U.S. President  Barack Obama  halted
drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet (152 meters) after BP
Plc’s Macondo well blowout.  The Stavanger-based company moved Transocean Ltd.’s
Discoverer Americas rig to Egypt, where drilling is scheduled to
start in the fourth quarter, while its second rig in the Gulf,
owned by A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, is now performing a contract
for Exxon Mobil Corp.  “Discoverer Americas is on its way to Egypt and won’t be
back in the Gulf of Mexico until early spring, while Maersk
Developer will drill a well for Exxon before it will be
available for us again, and that won’t be until early spring
either,” Baard Glad Pedersen, a spokesman for Statoil, said by
phone today.  U.S. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  ended the deepwater ban
yesterday, which was scheduled to expire Nov. 30, while saying
companies must meet new safety requirements. New rules on
drilling in the Gulf will add $183 million a year to the cost of
drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf, the Interior Department
said in a notice to be published tomorrow in the Federal
Register. That will mean an extra $1.42 million in costs for
each new deepwater well that uses a floating rig.  ‘Higher Costs’  “Our main focus now is to work with the requirements that
are set, meet them and document them and we’re starting the
application process, which will apply for all companies
operating in the Gulf of Mexico,” Glad Pedersen said.
“Stricter requirements will entail higher costs of course.”  Peter Mellbye , Statoil’s head of international development
and production, estimated in June that costs from the ban may
exceed $100 million for the company. Chief Executive Officer
 Helge Lund  said July 29 that the figure may rise depending on
whether the moratorium was extended and what solution was found
for the rigs. Glad Pedersen declined to comment on how the early
lifting of the moratorium would affect Statoil’s cost estimates.  Statoil rose 1.8 kroner, or 1.4 percent, to 127.7 kroner as
of 12:39 p.m. in Oslo, capping this year’s decline at 12
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marianne Stigset  in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  