-- Biden, Obama's Traveling Salesman, Makes Hard Sell to Voters
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-10-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/stimulus-traveling-salesman-biden-making-hard-sell-to-middle-class-voters.html
He’s flown 330,000 miles since
taking office, the equivalent of circling the globe 13 times,
much of it campaigning for Democrats and telling anxious voters
that the $814 billion stimulus measure is working. Vice
President  Joe Biden  knows it’s a hard sell.  “Less bad is never good enough,” Biden said in an
interview on board Air Force Two on Oct. 8, the same day that
Labor Department figures showed the  jobless rate  held steady at
9.6 percent in September, the last yardstick before voters in
the Nov. 2 elections determine which party controls Congress.  “Voters want to be told the truth,” Biden said on the way
to Madison, Wisconsin, jacketless, kneeling against the back of
an airplane seat and holding gold-trimmed aviator sunglasses.
“They want to know, ‘Tell me, man, do I have a shot?’” he
said, his enthusiasm undeterred by a cold.  With  unemployment  topping 9.5 percent for 14 straight
months, Biden is having difficulty trumpeting the 3.3 million
jobs created or saved by the White House’s economic stimulus.  “It’s just really hard to convince people that when there
weren’t, up until the first of the year, when there weren’t net
new jobs it’s awful hard to say, ‘It’s working,’” he said at
the end of a three-state campaign swing Oct. 7-8 for four
Democratic candidates in Wisconsin, Missouri, and Washington.
“It’s counterintuitive.”  Middle-Class Emissary  As President  Barack Obama ’s emissary to middle-class
voters, Biden has visited 27 cities in 17 states, stumping for
24 Democratic candidates in just the last month.  Eleven of those stops were in middle-income areas of
 Pennsylvania  and  Ohio , where Obama was defeated in the 2008
primaries and Biden’s middle-class roots -- he grew up in
Scranton, Pennsylvania -- may be an asset.  When Biden meets people in a crowd he cups their faces,
pinches their cheeks, and eagerly poses for pictures. At a
recent rally he teased one woman: “Can I have my picture taken
with you?”  “He’s certainly got much more of a common touch than Obama
does, there’s no question about that,” said  Ross Baker , a
political science professor at Rutgers University in New
Brunswick, New Jersey.  Still Biden, 67, has “a colossal selling job” to do, said Baker . “You’re talking about mass merchandising at a time when
the value of the product is uncertain.”  Childhood Memories  Biden draws on his own childhood, the son of a car salesman
who was laid off, to tell voters he feels their pain.  “I am angry, I am angry because I see what happened to
middle-class people,” Biden said at a fundraising dinner for
Senate candidate  Robin Carnahan  in Springfield, Missouri.  “People like my parents, like my family, people I know,
people I grew up with, who have just been battered by the greed,
battered by the indifference,” he said, his voice reaching a
crescendo.  Carnahan is running against Republican Representative  Roy Blunt  for Senator  Kit Bond ’s Senate seat. The contest is on the
non-partisan  Cook Political Report’s list  of the 11 most
competitive U.S. Senate races.  Biden sent Obama a 25-page report released Oct. 1 that
said the stimulus has created or preserved 3.3 million jobs and
is on pace to create the intended 3.5 million jobs. The money
was obligated quickly and with little fraud, the report said.  Voter Skepticism  In an Oct. 7-10 Bloomberg National Poll, 52 percent of
likely voters said the stimulus package for state and local
governments would weaken the economy or make no difference,
compared with 44 percent who said it would make the economy
stronger. Sixty percent said they disapprove of Obama’s handling
of the budget deficit, which ballooned in part because of the
stimulus. And 53 percent said they disapproved of Obama’s record
of job creation. The poll of 721 likely voters has a margin of
error of plus or minus 3.7 percentage points.  “People aren’t blaming Obama for the fact there’s a
recession; they’re blaming him for the fact that it’s going on
so long,” said James Bennett, 39, an information technology
worker in Tacoma, Washington.  Republicans, who need a net gain of 39 seats to gain a
majority in the 435-member House and a 10-seat pickup to take
over the Senate, are seizing on the administration’s
communication challenge.  In Washington state, Republican challenger  Dino Rossi  is
running television advertisements accusing Senator  Patty Murray 
of being “in the other Washington” while “we face lost jobs,
lost savings and falling  home prices .”  “She says she works for Washington, the question is which
one?” the ad says.  On a rainy day in Tacoma, Biden told a crowd of about 1,000
people at an outdoor rally for Murray that he welcomes the
fight.  Boxer’s Jab  “These rich guys always underestimate us, that’s one thing
that I kind of like about it, that’s one of the parts of my job
I’ve enjoyed over the years, a little straight left and a right
hook, it works,” Biden said, imitating a boxer’s jabs, wearing
a purple raincoat and baseball cap with the  University of
Washington  insignia. Later on as the sun broke through he took
off his jacket and rolled up his shirtsleeves.  Republicans say the stimulus didn’t live up to Obama’s
billing.  “The massive growth of the federal government didn’t
result in a similar growth of jobs,” Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell  said in a statement released Oct. 8.  Rebuts Republicans  Biden, in the interview, called Republican criticism
“phony” and said the  Labor Department report  “shows how wrong
they were” in limiting assistance for states. He said more jobs
would have been created if Republicans had approved an
additional $150 billion originally in the stimulus and the
creation of an infrastructure bank.  Democrats aren’t running on the administration’s
accomplishments like health-care and financial-regulatory
overhaul and the stimulus because “it’s just too hard to
explain,” Biden said. “It sort of a branding, I mean you know
they kind of want the branding more at the front end.”  In contrast to Obama’s style, Biden speaks to voters like
they are his neighbors and often has been accused of speaking
too honestly and too much.  “You’re the dullest audience I’ve ever spoken to,” Biden
chided 340 people paying more attention to their scrambled eggs
and bacon than to him at an Oct. 7 fundraiser for Democratic
gubernatorial candidate  Tom Barrett  in Madison, Wisconsin.  “It’s the message itself, not the messenger,” said Baker.
“It’s certainly not the strength of his persuasive powers but
rather the receptivity of people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  