-- Sugar Output to Beat Forecast on Monsoon, Lift Exports, Top Refiner Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-10-13T11:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/sugar-output-in-india-to-beat-forecast-lift-exports-biggest-refiner-says.html
India, the largest sugar user, may
produce more than forecast as an extended monsoon lifts yield,
increasing the surplus available for exports for the first time
in two years, according to the nation’s biggest refiner.  Output may be 26 million metric tons in the year started
Oct. 1,  Narendra Murkumbi , managing director of  Shree Renuka
Sugars Ltd. , said in a phone interview. That’s more than 25.5
million tons forecast by the Indian Sugar Mills Association.  Supplies from India may boost a global surplus, pressuring
raw-sugar futures which have more than doubled since reaching a
13-month low on May 7 because of weather disruptions to crops in
Brazil, Russia, Thailand and Pakistan. Supply may exceed demand
by 3 million-ton in 2010-2011, compared with a shortage of 8.5
million tons a year ago, Standard Chartered Plc said yesterday.  “The world is in deficit without Indian exports,” said
Murkumbi, adding the country may have a 3 million ton surplus,
which can be shipped by April. “We will have a surplus to
export, and late rains will improve yield.”  The rally in global raw-sugar prices to the highest level
in eight months is prompting consumers to delay purchases, he
said. Futures in New York and London today reached the highest
price since February.  White sugar for December delivery climbed as much as 1.6
percent to $708.60 a ton in London, the highest since Feb. 22.
Raw sugar for March delivery jumped as much as 2.2 percent to
28.04 cents a pound in New York, the highest price since Feb. 5.  “At these prices there’s a drop in demand, and demand gets
postponed wherever there is inventory,” said Murkumbi.
“Everybody has learnt to live with low stocks.”  Diwali  India, which has allowed mills holding permits to ship
about 962,000 tons by February, will decide on permitting
additional exports after the Diwali festival next month, Farm
Minister  Sharad Pawar  said Sept. 29.  Mills in Maharashtra, India’s biggest producer, may begin
crushing in the last week of this month, or three weeks later
than planned, because of an extended monsoon, Murkumbi said.  The monsoon rain, the main source of irrigation for the
country’s 235 million farmers, retreated from the northwestern
states almost a month later than normal this year, according to
the weather office. The June-September season usually approaches
its end starting Sept. 1.  In Brazil, rains over the main cane-growing areas in the
past two weeks improved crop prospects for 2011-2012 after dry
weather earlier in the year damaged the crop, he said.  “Recent rain has eased concerns of an impact on the next
season’s crop as they’ve been very timely,” said Murkumbi.
“It’s been a very good start so far.”  Brazil will harvest 3.2 percent less cane than previously
estimated in the year that began May 1, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s attache in Sao Paulo said Oct. 4. The country’s
south-central cane region experienced a four-month drought up to
mid-September that damaged crops.  Shree Renuka in June acquired half of Brazil’s Equipav SA
Acucar & Alcool, and last year bought Vale Do Ivai SA, a sugar
and ethanol company with plantations in Brazil’s Parana state,
to secure raw sugar for its refineries in India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  