-- Sukuk Issuers Shun Bonds Backed by Gulf Property Assets: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2010-10-13T01:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/sukuk-issuers-shun-bonds-backed-by-gulf-property-assets-islamic-finance.html
Persian Gulf Islamic bond issuers
are avoiding collateral based on real estate after Dubai
property prices plunged 50 percent.  Debt linked to returns from oil fields, aluminum and
manufacturing plants are more popular with investors than
property, Moinuddin Malim, chief executive officer at Dubai-
based Mashreq Al Islami, said in an interview in Abu Dhabi on
Oct. 11. “Money-making assets provide investors more comfort.”  Real-estate prices in Dubai tumbled from their peak in
August 2008 after the worst economic crisis since the 1930s
forced banks to tighten lending, according to Colliers
International. Property, which has been used to back a $3.5
billion note by Nakheel PJSC, is typically leased out and
payments to investors are usually in the form of rental income
or profit streams.  Global sales of Islamic debt declined 16 percent to $11.8
billion so far this year from $14 billion a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bonds in the Islamic
finance industry need to comply with the religion’s ban on
gambling, alcohol and interest payments.  Kuveyt Turk Katilim Bankasi AS in August raised $100
million from the sale of three-year Islamic notes maturing in
2013 that was 51 percent linked to textile machinery and
equipment,  Ufuk Uyan , chief executive officer of the Istanbul-
based bank owned by  Kuwait Finance House KSC , said in a
telephone interview from Istanbul on Aug. 25. Investors demanded
1.5 times the amount on offer, he said.  Need Tangible Assets  “You need a productive, tangible asset,”  Afaq Khan , the
Dubai-based chief executive officer of Standard Chartered Saadiq,
told reporters in Abu Dhabi Oct. 11. “You can have a hospital,
a toll road, an airport.” Islamic bonds are “still underpinned
by real estate, but a lot of research is going on” to diversify,
he said.  Global assets held by Shariah-compliant financial
institutions may climb to $1.6 trillion in 2012 from about $1
trillion, the Islamic Financial Services Board said in April.  Islamic bond sales in the region may reach $5.8 billion in
the fourth quarter of 2010, the highest since Bloomberg began
tracking the Gulf’s debt market in 2003, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Saudi Aramco and Total SA plan to sell $1
billion sukuk by year end.  Pick Up  Sales have picked up since state-controlled Dubai World in
September reached an agreement with 99 percent of its creditors
to alter the terms on $24.9 billion of debt. Dubai’s government
sold $1.25 billion of non-Shariah compliant bonds last month,
and Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ sold $750 million of debt Oct. 7.  The spread between the average yield for global sukuk and
the London interbank offered rate shrank 17 basis points to 355
this month, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk
Index . The average yield on sukuk sold by Gulf Cooperation
Council issuers dropped 43 basis points, or 0.43 percentage
point, this month to 5.66 percent on Oct. 12, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index.   The yield on Dubai’s 6.396 percent sukuk maturing in
November 2014 fell 36 basis points this month to 6.10 percent
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The extra yield
investors demand to hold Dubai’s sovereign dollar sukuk rather
than Malaysia’s has narrowed 13 basis points to 359.  Payment Problems  The Gulf’s Islamic bonds have returned 13 percent this year,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index .
Debt in developing markets returned 16 percent, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index shows.  Defaults by some companies have increased concern among
investors about risks associated with Islamic bonds.
 International Investment Group KSCC , an Islamic financial
company based in Safat, Kuwait, said July 26 it was unable to
pay $152.5 million to bondholders who demanded immediate
repayment after it defaulted on a $200 million Islamic bond.  “The asset that is ‘backing’ the sukuk gives you a source
of comfort that may be misguided,”  Daniel Smaller , head of
distribution at Algebra Capital Ltd. in Dubai, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “You really need to first do your
credit analysis on the company and be comfortable with that.”  -- With assistance from  Camilla Hall  and  Haris Anwar  in Dubai.
Editors:  Riad Hamade ,  Claudia Maedler   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  