-- Surging Food Prices to Increase Threat of Worldwide Hunger, Beckmann Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2010-10-13T16:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/surging-food-prices-to-increase-threat-of-worldwide-hunger-beckmann-says.html
Commodity futures at the highest
level in two years show that crop-price volatility remains a
threat to the world’s poor and hungry, according to the Rev.
 David Beckmann , a co-winner of this year’s  World Food Prize .  Higher prices for corn, wheat and soybeans may exacerbate
world hunger, Beckmann said today in an interview at the annual
conference where the prize is awarded in Des Moines, Iowa.
Beckmann was honored for his work as president of  Bread for the
World , a Washington-based non-profit group that advocates for
policies that ease hunger around the world.  “One immediate effect is likely to be an increase in the
number of undernourished people in the world,” said Beckmann,
an ordained Lutheran minister.  Global food costs are at their highest since August 2008,
when rising expenses for grain and other staples triggered
unrest in countries such as Mexico and Egypt. Prices have  risen
15 percent  since June, according to UN data. Commodity prices
surged this week after the U.S. government cut its crop-
production forecasts.  Twenty-two countries from Angola to Haiti are in a
“protracted” food crisis because of natural disasters, wars
and flawed governance, the United Nations said last week. The
number of hungry people in the world will fall this year to an
estimated 925 million from a record 1.02 billion last year, the
first decline in 15 years, the UN said in September.  The U.S. is trying to raise $1 billion for a global food-
security fund by appealing to Group of 20 finance ministers,
central bankers and world leaders meeting over the next few
weeks.  The World Food Prize recognizes achievement in food and
agriculture that alleviates hunger and poverty globally. The
annual conference brings together governments, businesses and
humanitarian organizations to discuss farming and international
development.  Beckmann shared the food prize this year with  Jo Luck , head
of Little Rock, Arkansas-based  Heifer International , which
provides livestock to developing-world farmers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 