-- Swiss Market Index Has Biggest Gain in Six Weeks; Transocean, UBS Advance
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-10-13T15:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/swiss-stocks-gain-led-by-transocean-meyer-burger-addex-rise.html
Swiss stocks climbed by the most in
six weeks after minutes from last month’s Federal Reserve
meeting showed U.S. officials were prepared to ease monetary
policy further.  Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS AG, Switzerland’s two
largest banks, rose 1.9 percent and 2.6 percent, respectively.
Transocean Ltd. jumped 3.9 percent after the U.S. lifted its ban
on deep-water drilling ahead of schedule. Meyer Burger
Technology AG rose 1.6 percent after winning a new contract.  The  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies rose 1.3 percent to 6,455.13 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich, the biggest gain since Sept. 1. The measure has
slipped 1.4 percent this year as concern lingers that a global
economic rebound is faltering. The broader  Swiss Performance
Index  gained 1.2 percent today.  Fed policy makers last month were prepared to ease monetary
policy “before long” and focused on purchases of Treasury
securities and boosting inflation expectations as ways to add
growth stimulus. Policy makers “wanted to consider further the
most effective framework for calibrating and communicating any
additional steps to provide such stimulus,” the Fed said in
minutes of the Sept. 21 session, released yesterday after
European markets closed.  “Low nominal rates will translate into a lower real cost
of capital,” said  Ian Richards , equity strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in London. “Against this backdrop long
duration assets are underpriced. Real assets are underpriced.
Equities are a clear long.”  Bank Earnings  Credit Suisse rose 1.9 percent to 43.25 Swiss francs. UBS
climbed 2.6 percent to 17.64 francs. JPMorgan Chase & Co., the
second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said profit rose 23 percent
to $1.01 per share as provisions for soured mortgages and
credit-card loans declined. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had
forecast earnings of 88 cents a share.  Transocean, the owner of the Deepwater Horizon offshore rig
that sank in April in the Gulf of Mexico, surged 3.9 percent to
63.3 francs.  The U.S. government halted oil and natural-gas drilling in
waters deeper than 500 feet (152 meters) after BP Plc’s Macondo
well off the Louisiana coast blew out April 20, killing 11
workers and setting off the biggest U.S. oil spill. Yesterday,
Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  ended the ban, which was
scheduled to expire Nov. 30, while saying companies must meet
new safety requirements.  Meyer Burger  Meyer Burger  rallied 1.6 percent to 32.75 francs. The
manufacturer of industrial cutting equipment said it won an
order from an undisclosed client in Asia worth more than 30
million francs ($31 million).  Addex  Pharmaceuticals Ltd. advanced 1.4 percent to 11
francs. The biotechnology company was upgraded to “buy” from
“neutral” at Helvea SA, which set a price estimate for the
shares of 17 francs.  “We believe that Addex’s technology platform holds
strategic value for the pharmaceutical industry,” Helvea
analyst  Olav Zilian  wrote in a report dated Oct. 12 and
distributed today. “Addex’s shares trade around cash valuation
but no value has been attributed to its technology platform.”  Roche Holding AG  snapped a two-day loss, rising 2.5 percent
to 139.1 francs. The drugmaker is due to release its third-
quarter sales tomorrow, according to the company’s Web site.  “The group is likely to reaffirm its full-year guidance,
namely double-digit growth in earnings per share on constant
currencies,” Natixis Securities wrote in a note.  Swatch Sales  Swatch Group AG  gained 0.6 percent to 372.9 francs. The
world’s biggest watchmaker expects to reach 9 billion francs to
10 billion francs in annual revenue in coming years through its
existing businesses, Chief Executive Officer  Nick Hayek  told
Finanz & Wirtschaft. Swatch isn’t considering a share buyback,
Hayek told the newspaper.  Swatch was downgraded to “neutral” from “buy” at Helvea
because of the franc’s strength against the dollar. “We still
see the group as being formidably well-positioned in this
industry,” Helvea analyst  Alessandro Migliorini  said in a note
to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 merritt1@bloomberg.net . 