-- Top Six U.K. Banks to Create $2.4 Billion Fund to Help Small Businesses
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2010-10-13T17:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/u-k-banks-to-create-1-5-billion-pound-business-fund-update1-.html
Britain’s six largest banks will
start a 1.5 billion-pound ($2.4 billion) fund to help smaller
companies get financing after the government threatened to curb
bonuses unless firms boost lending.  HSBC Holdings Plc , Barclays Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc,  Standard Chartered Plc 
and Banco Santander SA’s U.K. unit will contribute to the fund
“over a number of years,” according to a  report  published
today. Other measures are planned to improve customer
relationships and increase transparency.  The creation of the fund follows pressure from business
lobby groups and politicians urging banks to expand lending
after accepting more than 1 trillion pounds in bailouts and
guarantees during the financial crisis. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said last week he would block the
payment of large bonuses unless banks show they are extending
credit to households and companies.  “This won’t touch the real needs of small businesses,”
said  Stephen Alambritis , a spokesman for the Federation of Small
Businesses, which represents 215,000 entrepreneurs. “It is a
drop in the ocean compared to what small businesses need from
the banks.”  The U.K.’s largest lenders may pay 7 billion pounds in
bonuses to staff in the financial industry this year, the Centre
for Economics & Business Research Ltd. has said.  Equity Stakes  The banks will enable companies seeking to reorganize debts
to have a “dialogue” with their lenders 12 months before the
scheduled date of refinancing. They will hold equity stakes in
companies of typically 10 percent over a period of five years.  “We have been absolutely clear that banks need to improve
the lending environment for small businesses,” Osborne and
Business Secretary  Vince Cable  said today in a joint statement.
“This is an important first step and we welcome it. It is
important that the banks now deliver on these plans.”  A Bank of England report last month showed that British
lenders increased the availability of credit to smaller
companies in the third quarter. A net 7.8 percent of respondents
to the central bank’s credit conditions survey said the
availability of corporate credit rose in the period. It was the
seventh consecutive quarterly increase.  The British Bankers’ Association and the lenders didn’t ask
the government to contribute to the fund, according to  Lesley Mcleod , a spokeswoman for the BBA.  “It is up to the government if they wish to participate,”
Mcleod said. “We haven’t asked for any money from the
government.”  Appeals Process  The banks will also create a “transparent and
independently monitored” appeals process for customers denied
credit, according to the report. A “business finance round
table” will be set up with business groups to discuss the
progress of the plans.  “We hope the measures in this report will help rebuild
trust between banks and business stakeholders,” the report
said. “We look forward to a new process of active engagement,
so we can work constructively together to help get the U.K.
economy growing again.”  The fund will “make a helpful contribution to the
financing of small companies,”  Matthew Fell , the Confederation
of British Industry’s director of competitive markets, said in a
statement. “Banks have a big job to rebuild effective
relationships with companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net 
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  