-- U.K. Seeks to Move Past Russia Disputes to Build Economic Ties, Hague Says
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-10-13T13:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/u-k-seeks-to-move-past-russia-disputes-build-ties-hague-says.html
The U.K. and Russia should work to
improve economic ties even as the two countries remain divided
on issues such as investigating the murder of former spy
 Alexander Litvinenko , Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said.  Hague, a member of the Conservative-led coalition
government that took office in May, met with Russian President
Dmitry Medvedev today during a one-day visit to Moscow.
Relations between the two countries sank to a post-Cold War low
under 13 years of Labour Party rule.  “We’ve had serious differences between our countries in
the past which we don’t shy away from discussing,”  Hague, 49,
said during a news conference. ‘We are not here today to
announce any change in that position, but clearly there is a lot
of progress that we can make in the economic area.’’  Relations between the U.K. and Russia soured after Russian
authorities refused to extradite former KGB bodyguard  Andrei Lugovoi  over the 2006 radiation poisoning of Litvinenko in
London. Britain has irked Russia by granting asylum to
billionaire  Boris Berezovsky  and other critics of the
administration in Moscow.  Medvedev, who met with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  in
June at the Group of Eight summit in Canada, said at the time it
would require the “personal attention” of the two leaders to
make bilateral relations more productive.  “We face a number of extremely serious challenges ranging
from nuclear proliferation to international terrorism, the
fragile global economic environment,” Hague said today. “We
cannot address these global problems unless governments like our
own work together on shared interests and seek to narrow
differences.”  Investment Ties  The U.K. and Russia have to draw on existing achievements
such as Britain’s cumulative investment of 30 billion pounds
($47.6 billion) in Russia and Russian companies that account for
13 percent of international public offerings on the London Stock
Exchange, Hague said. The governments will encourage business
leaders to look for new opportunities and identify barriers to
trade, he said.  Hague’s visit comes at the time when TNK-BP, the Russian
oil venture half owned by London-based BP Plc, is in talks to
buy some BP assets including holdings in Venezuela and Vietnam.  “Both our governments are determined to improve these
economic relations further,” Hague said in comments broadcast
by state television channel Rossiya 24. “This is the spirit in
which Britain views Russia as an important partner in
international security and in trade and commerce, a country with
whom we see frank and productive relations.”  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , speaking at the
same briefing, said Russia is ready “for pragmatic discussion
of all issues.”  Asked about the Federal Security Service’s alleged
involvement in Litvinenko’s killing, Lavrov said Russia wants
“cooperation to establish the truth” in a way that is allowed
by Russian laws.  “For this we need to get all materials that the British
investigators have,” he said. “That’s all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  