-- U.K. Economy Still `Somewhat Fragile' on Budget-Deficit Cuts, Besley Says
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-10-13T10:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/u-k-economy-still-somewhat-fragile-on-budget-deficit-cuts-besley-says.html
Former Bank of England policy maker
 Timothy Besley  said the U.K. economic recovery is “fragile” as
the government tries to tackle a record deficit.  “There are still vulnerabilities in the economy, so I
would still describe it as somewhat fragile,” he said in an
interview at a conference in Oslo today. “Until we can be sure
that we made all the economic adjustments we need to make in the
deficit and so forth, then there are vulnerabilities and that
will remain.”  The government will announce on Oct. 20 details of the
biggest public spending cuts since World War II as it tries to
narrow a 156 billion-pound ($247 billion) spending shortfall.
The economy has already shown signs of softening after U.K.
 consumer confidence  dropped to an 18-month low in September and
jobless claims climbed the most in 8 months.  The economic recovery will continue through the end of the
year and then its sustainability will become more uncertain,
Besley said, noting that “nobody ever expected it to rattle
along at 1 percent per quarter.”  Gross domestic product  rose
1.2 percent in the second quarter, the fastest in nine years.  Inflationary pressures will persist as the government
increases sales tax in January and the effects of a weaker pound
continue, Besley said. The  U.K. currency  has fallen about 20
percent on a trade-weighted basis since the start of 2007.  “The odds are very strong that inflation will stay above”
the Bank of England’s 2 percent target “for a while longer,”
he said at a conference organized by the Norwegian School of
Economics and Business Administration. “Whether it is above 3
percent, I don’t know, but certainly above target through maybe
spring next year. There is still a fair bit of inflationary
pressure to come.”  Consumer prices  rose an annual 3.1 percent in September,
staying above the government’s 3 percent upper limit for a
seventh month. Besley, an economics professor at the London
School of Economics, served on the U.K. central bank’s Monetary
Policy Committee for three years until the end of August 2009,
when he was replaced by  Adam Posen .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  