-- U.K. Jobless Benefit Claims Rise by the Most in Eight Months
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-10-13T08:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/u-k-jobless-benefit-claims-rose-by-the-most-in-eight-months-in-september.html
U.K. unemployment claims climbed for
a second month in September with the biggest increase in eight
months, a sign the economy is losing momentum.  Jobless benefit claims rose by 5,300 from the previous
month to 1.473 million, the Office for National Statistics said
today in London. That exceeded the median forecast of 23
economists for an increase of 4,500. Overall unemployment in the
quarter through August fell by 20,000 to 2.45 million, led by 16
to 17 year-old people.  U.K. consumer confidence fell in September to an 18-month
low as Britons braced themselves for finance minister  George Osborne ’s spending cuts, Nationwide Building Society said today.
Recent data signaled economic growth slowed in the third quarter
and Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  said yesterday
officials must not tighten policy too soon.  “There are big shocks ahead,” Brian Hilliard, director of
economic research at Societe Generale SA in London and a former
central bank official, said in an interview. “Unemployment is
still on a rising trend. The fall in consumer confidence was a
big one today and companies are looking ahead and don’t like
what they see.”  The pound was little changed after the release at $1.5881
as of 9:40 a.m. in London. The yield on the benchmark two-year
government bond was up 3 basis points today at 0.648 percent.  ILO Rate  The claimant-count unemployment rate stayed at 4.5 percent
in September, the statistics office said. The  unemployment  rate
in the quarter through August measured by International Labour
Organization methods slipped to 7.7 percent, the lowest since
the three months through May 2009. Unemployment would have risen
if it excluded 16 to 17 year olds, officials said.  The unemployment rate compares with 10.1 percent in the
euro region, 9.6 percent in the U.S. and 5.1 percent in Japan,
the statistics office said.  Alliance Boots Ltd., owner of the U.K.’s largest drugstore
chain, said on Oct. 4 that it will spend three years improving
efficiency and cutting around 900 jobs. London’s financial
services industry may freeze new hiring next year on concern
about greater regulation and a slowing economic recovery, the
Centre for Economics & Business Research Ltd. said on Oct. 6.  Employment increased in the quarter through August by
178,000, taking the total of people in work to 29.16 million,
the statistics office said. That was the highest since the first
quarter of 2009.  The Bank of England left its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 0.5 percent this month and its bond-purchase plan
at 200 billion pounds ($316 billion).  Growth Slowdown  Recent economic data shows that the recovery may be
weakening. The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors said
yesterday that a gauge of house prices fell to a 16-month low in
September and the British Retail Consortium said annual same-
store sales growth weakened last month.  The U.K. Treasury’s fiscal watchdog predicts the loss of
half a million jobs in the public sector by April 2015 due to
the government budget squeeze. Unions representing more than 6
million workers voted in September to coordinate industrial
action in a campaign to stop the cuts. Osborne will reveal
details of the spending reductions on Oct. 20.  Weekly pay including bonuses rose 1.7 percent in the three
months through August from a year earlier, the statistics office
said. Excluding bonuses, pay increased by 2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  