-- U.K. to Sell as Much as 90% of Royal Mail Privately or in IPO, Cable Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-10-13T11:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/u-k-aims-to-sell-up-to-90-of-royal-mail-privately-or-through-an-offering.html
A stake of as much as 90 percent of
the U.K.’s Royal Mail Group Ltd. postal service will be sold by
the government, either in a private sale or an initial public
offering, Business Secretary  Vince Cable  said.  The 360-year-old service is struggling to compete with  TNT
NV  of the Netherlands,  Deutsche Post AG ’s DHL Express unit and
 Business Post Group Plc  as European Union rules phase in
competition for deliveries between 2011 and 2013.  At least 10 percent of the company will be reserved for
staff under the terms of the Postal Services Bill, which was
published today by Cable’s department. Cable said the government
sees no need to keep a stake for itself and hasn’t decided how
to bring in private investment.  “We’re keeping an open mind,” Cable told reporters in
London. “It could be an IPO, it could be a trade sale. We’re
not nationalists in this government. We don’t object to
companies simply because they’re owned by foreigners.”  The sale will see the government take on Royal Mail’s
accumulated pension deficit, which it estimates as being as high
as 10.3 billion pounds ($16.3 billion). Legislation will
enshrine the current “universal service obligation” that
obliges Royal Mail to deliver letters across the country, six
days a week, at a single price.  A report for the government last month by  Richard Hooper , a
former communications regulator, found the current system of
funding for Royal Mail is “unsustainable” and called for
private investment.  Cable refused to put a valuation on the company. The Times
newspaper reported today that private research by Trova
Consulting for the government showed a sale might raise as
little as 700 million pounds.  The bill will also set out the future for the Post Office
network of 11,500 branches, offering the possibility of turning
it into a mutual company owned by its employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 