-- U.S. EPA Said to Permit Blending More Ethanol Into Gasoline
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2010-10-13T20:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/u-s-epa-said-to-permit-blending-more-ethanol-into-gasoline.html
The Obama administration granted a
request from ethanol producers to increase concentrations of the
corn-based fuel additive in gasoline for vehicles made for 2007
and later. Ethanol makers rose in New York trading.  The Environmental Protection Agency today agreed to let
refiners add as much as 15 percent ethanol to a new blend, up
from the current 10 percent. A decision on using more ethanol in
fuel for vehicles in model years 2001 through 2006 will be made
after further testing, the EPA said in a statement.  “This is a first step,” said Tom Buis, chief executive
officer of Growth Energy, an industry trade group in Washington
that promotes ethanol as a cheaper alternative to gasoline and a
way to reduce U.S. reliance on foreign oil. “We know we have
challenges we have to address.”  Archer Daniels Midland Co.  is among producers that pressed
the EPA to raise the limit for an industry that’s had at least a
dozen companies seek bankruptcy protection since 2008. Oil
companies, automakers and environmental groups say adding more
ethanol may damage engines, boost food prices and worsen air
quality, and refiners and convenience stores that sell fuel may
be reluctant to market the new blend.  Archer Daniels of Decatur, Illinois, rose 51 cents, or 1.6
percent, to $33.22 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The company is the second-largest U.S.
ethanol producer behind closely held  Poet LLC , based in Sioux
Falls, South Dakota.  Energy Ethanol Tests  A decision on the blend, known as E15, for cars made for
2001 through 2006 is likely to come in November after the Energy
Department completes testing of those vehicles, according to the
agency.  The EPA won’t raise ethanol concentrations for automobiles
from 2000 or earlier because sufficient testing isn’t available,
Gina McCarthy, EPA’s assistant administrator for air and
radiation, said today on a conference call with reporters.  The Obama administration doesn’t have the power to order
use of E15, though the decision has “the potential to increase
the use of renewable fuels in the future,” McCarthy said.  Green Plains Renewable Energy Inc . in Omaha, Nebraska, rose
62 cents, or 5.5 percent, to $11.91 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
 Pacific Ethanol Inc ., a Sacramento, California-based producer of
the fuel, rose 10 cents, or 10 percent, to $1.10.  Aventine
Renewable Energy Holdings Inc . rose 50 cents, or 1.9 percent, to
$27.50 in the over-the-counter market.  No Refiner Requirement  Companies like  ADM  may not see an immediate boost from the
EPA decision because refiners won’t be required to sell the new
blend, said analyst  Robert Moskow  of Credit Suisse AG in New
York.  “The approval of E15 by the EPA won’t have a positive
effect on  ADM  in the near-term,” Moskow, who has an
“outperform” rating on ADM shares, said in an Oct. 6 report.
“Blenders remain reluctant to implement E15 because it requires
a separate pump and because the EPA has not absolved the
blenders of potential legal liability from consumers.”  Valero Energy Corp. , the largest U.S. refiner, and Marathon
Oil Co., the largest refiner in the Midwest, are concerned the
new blend may leave them liable for engine damage, according to
company spokesmen.  “Rushing through this new fuel standard without complete
research may be good politics but is bad policy,”  Bob Greco ,
director of downstream operations for the American Petroleum
Institute, a Washington trade group, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Decision Delay  The EPA delayed its ethanol decision in December, saying
the agency needed more time to test the blend. A decision was
again postponed in June, prompting  Growth Energy , which sought
the E15 approval, to write to President  Barack Obama  expressing
frustration with the process.  AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization, said in
July 2009 the EPA should reject Growth Energy’s request because
higher blends may damage exhaust systems, engines and fuel pumps
and destroy catalytic converters.  General Motors Co. ,  Ford Motor
Co.  and Chrysler LLC have said the Obama administration should
be cautious about increasing the ethanol percentage in gasoline.  “EPA has placed retailers in a very precarious position,”
said John Eichberger, vice president of the  National Association
of Convenience Stores , which said it sells 80 percent of
gasoline in the U.S. The group urged retailers to use “extreme
caution” before selling E15.  Gasoline retailers will not be allowed to sell the blend
until the EPA completes rules for gasoline-pump labels. Growth
Energy’s Buis said E15 may be available to motorists in the
first three months of next year.  Boat Engines Excluded  The decision excludes non-road engines such as boats and
snowmobiles. The  National Marine Manufacturers Association , a
Chicago-based trade group for the recreational boating industry,
said it’s worried that consumers may become confused and put the
wrong fuel in boats.  “We are astonished that EPA has decided to move forward
with a fuel that will increase air pollution and damage hundreds
of millions of existing products,” President  Thom Dammrich  said
in a statement today. The U.S.’s 66 million boaters will be left
“holding the bag for performance issues and expensive
repairs,” he said.  The Natural Resources Defense Council, a New York-based
environmental group, said the EPA’s approval of the higher
ethanol concentrations is risky.  ‘Serious Risks’  “Though seen as a win for corn-ethanol lobby groups like
Growth Energy, the new ethanol blends come with serious risks
for our engines, wildlife, water and the air we all breathe,”
Nathanael Greene, a renewable-energy policy analyst with the
group, said today.  Growth Energy, which is headed by  Wesley Clark , a retired
Army general and 2004 Democratic presidential candidate, has
said ethanol is 59 percent “cleaner” than straight gasoline.  Raising the “blend ratio” will boost demand, according to
Growth Energy. By law, the U.S. must use 12 billion gallons of
renewable fuels such as ethanol next year, up from 10.5 billion
in 2009, and use 15 billion gallons by 2015.  The annual market value for ethanol in the U.S. has risen
to $27.1 billion since federal support began under President
Jimmy Carter during the 1970s energy crisis.  The U.S. pays a 45-cent tax credit to gasoline refiners
that make a blend of as much as 10 percent ethanol, an incentive
that is up for renewal at the end of this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 