-- U.S. Government Tests on Macondo Well Equipment to Take More Than a Month
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2010-10-13T15:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/u-s-examination-of-macondo-blowout-preventer-to-take-a-month.html
Federal investigators probing the
cause of the biggest U.S. offshore oil spill in history said it
will take more than a month of tests to determine why a key
device failed to prevent the disaster in the Gulf of Mexico.  The 50-foot-tall (15.2-meter) stack of valves known as a
blowout preventer that sat atop BP Plc’s Macondo well will
undergo testing at a National Aeronautics and Space
Administration base near New Orleans, the joint U.S. Coast
Guard-Interior Department panel said today on its  website .  Det Norske Veritas, the Norway-based maritime risk-
management association that represents 130 nations, will lead
the examination and submit an interim report 35 days after the
tests begin, the panel said.  Federal investigators are trying to determine what went
wrong when a surge of explosive gas erupted from the well on
April 20 as workers from BP, Transocean Ltd., M-I Swaco and
other oilfield contractors were in the final hours of finishing
the project. The disaster killed 11 rig workers, sank
Transocean’s Deepwater Horizon rig and caused the leak of an
estimated 4.9 million barrels of crude.  Equipment Failure  The blowout preventer, manufactured by  Cameron
International Corp. , was supposed to cut off the flow of gas
from the well before it grew out of control. Metal blades inside
the stack failed to slice and crimp the pipe connecting the well
to the rig when rig workers realized a blowout was occurring,
according to testimony before the panel.  The Coast Guard-Interior Department panel has been
conducting public hearings since May to question survivors, BP
managers and experts from academia on what may have led to the
catastrophe. The dates of the next round of hearings haven’t
been set yet, Coast Guard Petty Officer Thomas Blue said today
in a telephone interview.  Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  yesterday ended the
moratorium on deep-water exploratory drilling that was imposed
in late May to assess safety practices aboard Gulf rigs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net  