-- U.S. Stocks Rise as CSX Results, China Reserves Boost Optimism on Economy
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-10-13T20:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-intel-jpmorgan-chase-gain-in-europe.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending benchmark
indexes to five-month highs, as better-than-estimated results at
CSX Corp. and China’s record currency reserves boosted optimism
in the economic recovery.  CSX, the second-largest publicly traded U.S. railroad,
rallied 4.2 percent after also saying it’s seeing improvements
across almost all markets.  Alcoa Inc.  added 1.3 percent and
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. advanced 3.8 percent,
leading a measure of raw-materials producers to the biggest gain
among 10 industries in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, amid
speculation that Chinese demand will improve after the world’s
fastest-growing major economy announced $2.65 trillion in
currency reserves.  The S&P 500 rose 0.7 percent to 1,178.10 at 4 p.m. in New
York, the highest level since May 3. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  increased 75.68 points, or 0.7 percent, to 11,096.08.  “The market’s got a lot of tailwinds operating right
now,” said  John Kattar , chief investment officer at Eastern
Investment Advisors in Boston, which manages $1.6 billion.
“Earnings should be good, and that should be a catalyst for the
market, and everyone’s looking ahead to” bond purchases by the
Federal Reserve to spur growth. “All risk assets have responded
dramatically just to expectations.”  The  S&P 500  rose for a third day yesterday after Fed policy
makers indicated a readiness to pump more cash into the economy
to protect the recovery by buying additional Treasury securities,
a tactic known as quantitative easing. The gauge has rallied 15
percent from this year’s low on July 2.  Record Streak  Going into this earnings season, more than 70 percent of
S&P 500 companies have topped the average analyst earnings
estimate for five straight quarters, the longest streak in
Bloomberg  data  going back to 1993.  The prospect of Fed purchases has boosted the prices of
Treasury notes and bonds, driving two-year yields to record lows
and 10-year yields to the lowest since January 2009. While
discouraging investment in government debt, as benchmarks the
low yields keep borrowing costs down for companies and consumers.  The number of  mortgage applications  in the U.S. climbed for
the first time in six weeks as record-low interest rates led to
a surge in refinancing. The Mortgage Bankers Association’s index
increased 15 percent in the week ended Oct. 8, the Washington-
based group said today.  Euphoria  “Quantitative easing euphoria, coupled with the lack of
bad surprises from quarterly results, and some switch from bonds
toward equities in view of year-end portfolio rebalancing is
driving the market,” said  Ricciardo Ricciardelli , managing
director at Unifortune Investment Management SGR SpA in London.  CSX  jumped 4.2 percent to $59.66, the biggest gain since
June 10, after third-quarter profit topped analyst estimates.
The advance led industrial stocks to the second-biggest increase
among 10 industries in the S&P 500. Earnings from continuing
operations climbed to $414 million, or $1.08 a share, exceeding
the $1.04 average estimate of 24 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Eighteen companies in the  S&P 500  are scheduled to release
third-quarter results this week. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
predict 23 percent profit growth from a year earlier for
companies in the index, the fourth straight quarterly increase
after a record nine-quarter slump.  Alcoa, the biggest U.S. aluminum producer, advanced 1.3
percent to $13.37. Freeport-McMoRan, the world’s largest
publicly traded copper producer, gained 3.8 percent to $99.08.  Copper rose to a 27-month high in New York and London on
prospects for increased consumption of the metal. Crude oil rose
for the first time in three days after China, the world’s
largest consumer, reported record imports in September.  China Reserves  China’s foreign-exchange reserves increased by a record to
$2.65 trillion at the end of September while a 25 percent jump
in exports lifted its trade surplus to $16.9 billion,
reinforcing optimism the country will continue to lead the
global recovery.  Asian stocks also rose after Japanese machinery orders
unexpectedly jumped 10.1 percent in August, the most since
December, and Australian consumer confidence rebounded in
October as the central bank extended a pause on interest-rate
increases and employment surged.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Intel Corp. declined even after
reporting third-quarter profit that topped the average analyst
estimates. JPMorgan, the first of the largest U.S. banks to
report earnings, fell 1.4 percent to $39.84 as revenue missed
some analysts’ forecasts. Intel, the biggest maker of
semiconductors, dropped 2.7 percent after gaining for six days
in a row. Intel’s fourth-quarter sales forecast also beat the
average analyst estimate.  Earnings ‘A Positive’  “The initial signs from the bellwethers are that this
third-quarter earnings season is going to be a positive and help
lift the overall stock market,” said  Robert Pavlik , chief
market strategist at Palm Beach Gardens, Florida-based Banyan
Partners LLC, which manages about $1 billion. “The slow growth
we’re seeing so far hasn’t done a tremendous negative impact to
these firms.”  Williams Cos. surged 9.8 percent to $21.53 for the biggest
advance in the S&P 500. Citigroup Inc. maintained its “buy”
rating and $28.50 price estimate for the U.S. natural-gas
pipeline operator. The company is Citigroup’s top pick in the
integrated natural gas space, equity analyst  Faisel Khan  wrote
in a note to clients. Williams also announced that its Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Steve Malcolm  will retire at the end
of the year. He’ll be succeeded as CEO by  Alan Armstrong ,
president of the company’s midstream business since 2002.  Apple Inc. advanced as much as 1.2 percent to a record
$301.96, before closing 0.5 percent higher at $300.14. The
company is making a version of its iPhone model that Verizon
Communications Inc. will sell, the Wall Street Journal reported,
citing people familiar with the matter.  Clearwire, MGM  Clearwire Corp. jumped 6.8 percent to $7.21. The high-speed
wireless carrier is seeking to raise $2.5 billion to $5 billion
in a wireless spectrum auction that has attracted telephone and
cable companies, said people with direct knowledge of the sale.  MGM Resorts International  tumbled 11 percent to $12.10. The
biggest casino operator on the Las Vegas Strip plans to raise
more than $500 million by selling stock, and said its founder
and biggest shareholder will reduce his stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  