-- U.S. Urged to Lift Energy Spending Sixfold, to $25 Billion; Drop Subsidies
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2010-10-13T16:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/u-s-urged-to-lift-energy-spending-sixfold-to-25-billion-drop-subsidies.html
The U.S. should boost spending on
energy research and new technologies by more than sixfold, to
$25 billion, rather that pay subsidies for solar and wind
projects that aren’t innovative, three institutes said.  The  American Enterprise Institute  and the  Brookings
Institution  in Washington, and the  Breakthrough Institute  in
Oakland, California, released a  report  today that said political
disputes over “cap-and-trade” climate legislation, nuclear
power and oil production have left U.S. energy policy at a
standstill.  The report aims at winning support of Republicans and
Democrats by encouraging an investment strategy used by the
defense and aerospace industries in the 1960s that helped make
the U.S. a technological leader. It recommends abandoning
“today’s mess of subsidies” for clean energy and increasing
federal research spending from $4 billion a year.  “My concern is that other nations are moving ahead swiftly
to begin reorienting their energy systems,” said  Mark Muro , a
senior fellow and policy director of the Metropolitan Policy
Program at Brookings who helped write the report. Muro called
the recommendations a "pragmatic assemblage of ideas" that could
attract broad support and help transform the economy.  The report faults lawmakers and critics who dismiss climate
change as a “United Nations-inspired conspiracy” and instead
advocate “drill, baby, drill” as an energy strategy.  Supporters of legislation that would limit emissions blamed
for climate change have “oscillated incoherently” between
demanding sacrifices to avoid apocalyptic scenarios and
asserting that today’s renewable energies can replace fossil
fuels without significant cost, according to the report.  Diseases, Defense  The U.S. spends $30 billion a year seeking cures for
diseases and $80 billion on military innovations to defend its
borders, according to the report. Similar commitment should be
made to energy initiatives, the report concludes.  The Energy Department’s  Advanced Research Projects Agency
for Energy  would benefit from a shift in investment. The
research arm, modeled after a Defense Department agency that
helped to create the Internet, should get $1.5 billion a year
for innovative projects. The administration requested $300
million for the agency in the 2011 budget, the report states.  The U.S. can spend more without adding to the deficit by
phasing out “unproductive energy subsidies,” increasing fees
on imported oil, imposing a “small surcharge” on electricity
sales, and imposing a “very small carbon price” on fuel
sources, the report states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 