-- U.S. Chamber Chief Says No Money From Foreign Donors Used in Political Ads
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2010-10-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/u-s-chamber-chief-says-no-money-from-foreign-donors-used-in-political-ads.html
U.S. Chamber of Commerce President
 Thomas Donohue  denied Democratic Party charges that the business
lobbying group buys political ads with money from foreign
donors, and promised to “ramp up” its election activities.  Of more than $200 million in annual revenue, only a “small
fraction” comes from the Chamber’s foreign affiliates and the
group has “strict financial controls” to make sure that money
doesn’t fund political activities, Donohue said in a  letter 
yesterday to the Chamber’s directors and partners.  Donohue sent the letter in response to attacks on his group
that intensified over the weekend. An ad produced by the
 Democratic National Committee  said the Chamber may be taking
“secret foreign money to influence our elections,” and  David Axelrod , a top adviser to President  Barack Obama , singled out
the Chamber for criticism on CBS’s “Face the Nation” program.  The foreign money charge is “patently untrue,” Donohue
wrote. It’s an effort by Democrats to turn around an election
stacked against them, he said.  “They hope that by demonizing those who oppose their
failed policies, they can fire up their dispirited and
disappointed base and silence our voice,” Donohue wrote.  White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said yesterday that the
Chamber should open its books because the American people don’t
know who is paying for its political advertising.  ‘Fairly Simple’  “The best way to clear any of this stuff up would simply
be to disclose the names, the identities of those donors,”
Gibbs said. “It seems like a fairly simple thing to do.”  Obama sounded a similar theme on Oct. 10, criticizing tax-
exempt Republican-leaning groups, without naming the Chamber,
that are flooding the airwaves with ads to sway the Nov. 2
congressional elections.  “It could be the oil industry” funding the ads, Obama
told a Democratic  rally  in Philadelphia. “It could be the
insurance industry, it could even be foreign-owned corporations.
You don’t know because they don’t have to disclose.”  The Chamber has already said it’s planning to spend $75
million on this year’s elections. Donohue said yesterday his
Washington-based group will not “be silenced.”  “In fact, for the next three weeks leading up to Election
Day, you will see us ramp up efforts to educate voters about the
positions of candidates of both parties who are committed to
free enterprise and economic growth,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 