-- U.S. Treasuries 10- to 30-Year Yield Spread at Record on Outlook for Fed
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-10-13T16:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/u-s-treasuries-10-to-30-year-yield-spread-at-record-on-outlook-for-fed.html
Treasury 30-year bonds reached a
record  yield  premium over 10-year notes amid speculation the
Federal Reserve will concentrate on purchases of medium-term
debt as it tries to keep down borrowing costs.  The longest maturities, the most sensitive to inflation
expectations, also lagged behind shorter-term notes after the
Fed said it’s prepared to ease monetary policy to spur the
economy. Bank of America Merrill Lynch said Fed bond purchases
would be an attack on the wrong problem. Ten-year notes fell
before the U.S. sells $21 billion of them in the second of three
sales of $66 billion of notes and bond this week.  “A tempering of the disinflation expectations and the
expectations of the Fed buying shorter-dated securities is
weighing on 30-year” debt, said  Christian Cooper , head of U.S.
dollar derivatives trading in New York at Jefferies & Co., one
of 18 primary dealers that trade with the central bank. “As
disinflation has come off the table, it forces a reevaluation of
where the back end should be.”  Ten-year yields, a benchmark for everything from home
mortgages to corporate bonds, rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.47 percent at 12:09 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The 2.625 percent note
maturing in August 2020 fell 11/32, or $3.449 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 10/32.  Yields on 30-year bonds increased four basis points to 3.86
percent. The  difference  between the two rates reached 1.4
percentage points, the most since Bloomberg started tracking the
figures in 1977.  Two-year note  yields fell 1 basis point to 0.36
percent. It was the first trading day this month they failed to
reach or match a record low.  Lower Inflation  Inflation in the U.S. through 2012 will fall short of the
Fed’s long-term goal as growth and employment are slow to
rebound, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, which is tied to consumer
spending and excludes food and fuel costs, will climb 1.2
percent next year and 1.5 percent in 2012 on average, according
to the median forecast of economists polled from Oct. 4-12. Most
policy makers project those prices will increase 1.7 percent to
2 percent in the long run.  The 10-year securities scheduled for sale today yielded
2.477 percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 2.67 percent
the last time the notes were sold on Sept. 8.  Bond Returns  Thirty-year bonds have lost 1.76 percent this month, versus
a 0.92 percent gain by 10-year Treasuries, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. The 10-year yield dropped to 2.33
percent on Oct. 8, the least since January 2009, as speculation
mounted that the Fed will announce a resumption of its program
of asset purchases as soon as next month to boost the economy.  The central bank’s policy-setting Federal Open Market
Committee last month was prepared to ease monetary policy
“before long,” according to minutes released yesterday of the
Sept. 21 session. Officials focused on purchases of Treasuries,
a process known as quantitative easing, and boosting inflation
expectations as ways to add stimulus, the minutes showed.  The Fed may resume its quantitative easing program in
November, when it next meets, BNP Paribas SA said today. Policy
makers are likely to announce “an initial purchase amount of
$500 billion in long-term securities,”  Yelena Shulyatyeva , an
economist in New York, wrote in a research report. It already
bought $1.75 trillion of Treasury and mortgage-related debt to
sustain the recovery, concluding the program in March.  Quantitative easing aims at the wrong problem, according to
strategists at BofA Merrill Lynch.  ‘Count Us as Skeptical’  “Count us as skeptical if not on the likelihood of QE2
then certainly on its effectiveness,” strategists led by
 Jeffrey Rosenberg  in New York wrote in a note to clients dated
yesterday. “It is not the supply or cost of credit that is
currently the deterrent to economic activity. Rather, confidence
remains low, suppressing investment and demand for credit.”  The  spread  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, an indication of inflation
expectations, widened 0.08 percentage point to 2.06 percentage
points. The five-year average is 2.10 percentage points.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index rose 0.9 percent.  Longer-term Treasuries fell before today’s auction of 10-
year debt. Yesterday’s sale of $32 billion in three-year notes
drew bids for 2.95 times the amount sold, the least since
February.  ‘More Demand’  “The street is trying to pressure us lower, but there will
be more demand for the 10-year note than for the 3-year note
yesterday due to the expectations for QE buying in that part of
the curve,” said  Martin Mitchell , head government bond trader
at the Baltimore unit of Stifel Nicolaus & Co., a St. Louis-
based brokerage firm.  Investors last month  bid  for 3.21 times the amount of 10-
year notes on offer, versus the average of 3.10 for the past 10
auctions. Indirect bidders, the group that includes foreign
central banks, bought 54.7 percent of the debt, while the 10-
sale average is 40 percent.  “Was yesterday’s auction a sign that the market has
overshot itself ahead of QE, especially with the FOMC minutes
hinting QE is on the horizon?”  Justin Lederer  and  Amrut Bharambe , interest-rate strategists in New York at Cantor
Fitzgerald LP, wrote in a note to clients. “Or is this backup
ahead of the long-end supply a market correction that is
desperately needed? Regardless of either scenario, we believe
bidders will be cautious today.”  The $13 billion 30-year auction tomorrow will round out
debt this week’s offerings of notes and bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  