-- U.S. Currency Bill Punishing China on Yuan Could Pass Senate, Baucus Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-13T08:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/u-s-currency-bill-punishing-china-on-yuan-could-pass-senate-baucus-says.html
A bill punishing China over the
value of the yuan may well pass in the U.S. Senate, with
Congress submitting it to President  Barack Obama  for his
signature, Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  said.  “I think it is a very real possibility that a currency
bill would pass and be sent to the president,” Baucus told
reporters today in Beijing, where he is meeting with government
leaders on the issue. “A lot of people think an undervalued
renminbi costs jobs, and I conveyed that to the Chinese
leadership.”  Baucus’ panel has jurisdiction over trade and is due to
consider a measure after the November congressional elections
that would let U.S. companies petition for duties on imports
from China to compensate for the effect of a weak yuan. The U.S.
House of Representatives passed a similar measure on Sept. 29.
China says the legislation will do nothing to ease the U.S.
trade deficit and would hurt global growth.  Baucus has met with officials including Vice President  Xi Jinping , Vice Premier  Wang Qishan , Commerce Minister  Chen Deming 
and  Yi Gang , head of China’s State Administration of Foreign
Exchange, which oversees the country’s $2.65 trillion of foreign
exchange  reserves . China’s leaders “understood” the U.S.
position, he said.  “They took it in the spirit in which the information was
given; constructively, respectfully and soberly,” Baucus said.  China’s yuan, also called the renminbi, has gained 2
percent in the past six weeks following a visit to Beijing of
White House officials, including  Larry Summers , the departing
director of the National Economic Council. The yuan was recently
trading little changed in the spot market at 6.6698.  Baucus said any determination over whether tax cuts
initiated by President  George W. Bush  would be extended would
have to wait until the results of next month’s elections.  “I would like to see the middle income tax cuts extended
permanently,” Baucus said.  -- Michael Forsythe  in Beijing. Editors:  Bill Austin ,  Ben Richardson .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  