-- Ukraine Seeks to Revise `Unfair' Russian Gas Accord, Prime Minister Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2010-10-13T17:40:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/ukraine-to-seek-to-revise-russian-gas-contract-prime-minister-azarov-says.html
Ukrainian Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said he aims to discuss a revision to the country’s
natural-gas contract with Russia when he meets with his
counterpart  Vladimir Putin  on Oct. 27.  “We are talking about bilateral relations and the fact
that the agreement that the previous government signed with the
Russian counterparts is unfair and should be revised,” Azarov
said today in an interview in Brussels.  Ukraine and Russia signed a 10-year agreement on gas
supplies in January 2009 after a price dispute between the two
neighbors left the European Union without fuel for two weeks
amid freezing temperatures. Russia’s  OAO Gazprom  provides a
quarter of the EU’s gas and 80 percent of that volume is
transited via Ukrainian territory.  “Definitely Russia doesn’t want to revise it,” Azarov
said. “The question is why. The answer is perhaps it’s
profitable for them. Why do we want to revise it? Because we
believe this is an unprofitable agreement for us.”  In April, Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  agreed to cut
the price it charges Ukraine by $100 per 1,000 cubic meters of
gas. In return, Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych  agreed to
extend Russia’s lease on a naval port in the Black Sea.  While European customers paid an average of $307 a thousand
cubic meters in the first quarter, Ukraine paid just $2 less,
even though it buys gas at the border and doesn’t pay transit
fees, Moscow-based Troika Dialog said in August. Ukraine’s price
dropped to $236 in the second quarter after the $100 discount.  ‘Reliable Transit Country’  “We expect a civilized, market-orientated definition of
price,” Azarov said. “We’re ready to extend guarantees for
years ahead that Ukraine is a reliable transit country for
Russia for any volumes of gas.”  Ukrainian and Russian relations have improved since
Yanukovych took office in February, replacing  Viktor Yushchenko ,
who advocated the country’s joining the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization. Yanukovych said Ukraine won’t enter NATO.  “We have several Russian-Ukrainian projects under way and
we believe that Russian-Ukrainian relations should be
developed,” Azarov said. “This doesn’t mean that having these
improved relationships we should be still taking this highly
unprofitable gas agreement as granted and we shouldn’t try to
revise it. The faster we renegotiate the better perspectives for
further cooperation in other sectors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  