-- Human Rights Watch Urges Arrest of Congo General Ntaganda for War Crimes
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-10-13T11:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/human-rights-watch-urges-arrest-of-congo-general-ntaganda-for-war-crimes.html
Congolese General  Bosco Ntaganda ,
the former rebel leader who is wanted by the International
Criminal Court on war-crimes charges, should be arrested and
prosecuted, Human Rights Watch said.  Ntaganda should be “made to answer for his crimes, rather
than being allowed to walk freely,”  Anneke van Woudenberg , a
senior researcher at the New York-based advocacy group, said in
an e-mailed statement today. “He is a threat to the people of
eastern Congo and is making a mockery of the Congolese
government’s policy of zero tolerance for human-rights abuses.”  The ICC issued an arrest warrant for Ntaganda in 2006 for
crimes committed in Congo’s northeastern Ituri territory between
2002 and 2003, including the use of child soldiers. The ethnic-
Tutsi general is also responsible for abuses as chief of staff
of the Rwandan-backed rebel movement of  Laurent Nkunda , and more
recently as part of the Congolese army, Human Rights Watch said.  Congo’s government has said it won’t apprehend Ntaganda
while an operation is under way against the ethnic-Hutu
Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda, a rebel group
active in eastern Congo. On Oct. 4, Ntaganda traveled around
Walikale town center in the North Kivu province with an armed
entourage that included other Congolese generals.  Congo’s position on Ntaganda’s ICC arrest warrant hasn’t
changed, Communication Minister  Lambert Mende  said by phone
today from Kinshasa, the capital. “We will not open the case
against him as long as these operations” against the FDLR are
continuing, Mende told reporters in October 2009.  Assassinations  Accusations by Human Rights Watch that Ntaganda was
involved in a spate of recent assassinations in eastern Congo
would have to be investigated by local authorities, Mende said.  On Oct. 11, French authorities arrested Callixte
Mbarushimana, executive secretary of the FDLR, after the ICC
issued a warrant for his arrest. Mbarushimana, a Rwandan, is
accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity for attacks
committed by FDLR rebels last year in eastern Congo, the ICC
said.  The FDLR has links to the perpetrators of the 1994
genocide in neighboring Rwanda. The UN is providing some
logistical support to the army’s offensive against the FDLR, and
Human Rights Watch called on the UN to support Congo in
arresting Ntaganda. A UN spokesman couldn’t be reached for
comment today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa on 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 