-- Hungary Plans New Tax on Telecommunications, Energy, Retail to Cut Deficit
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-10-13T15:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/hungary-plans-new-tax-on-telecommunications-energy-retail-to-cut-deficit.html
Hungary will impose special taxes on
telecommunications operators, energy companies and retail chains
to bring its budget deficit in line with European Union rules
next year, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said.  The levies, to be based on 2009 results, will be introduced
this year and will stay in effect through 2012, Orban said in a
speech in Budapest today. The government forecasts revenue of 70
billion forint ($357 million) from the energy industry, 61
billion forint from telecommunications companies and 30 billion
forint from retailers each year, he said. The currency and
stocks rose.  Orban, who won elections in April on pledges to boost
 economic growth  after the worst recession in 18 years and bring
an end to years of austerity, is under pressure from the EU to
cut the budget deficit. He promised last month to reduce the
shortfall to 3.8 percent of economic output this year and less
than 3 percent in 2011, after falling out with the country’s
international creditors in July over the same targets.  Orban “is refusing to take any expenditure-side austerity
measures and is instead undergoing revenue-side contortions,”
 Peter Attard Montalto , a London-based Nomura economist, said by
e-mail. “This will likely allow them to meet the deficit
targets. This is not credible fiscal policy, it is anti-growth.”  Forint Gains  The government will also withhold social security payment
transfers to private pension funds, saving 30 billion forint a
month from Nov. 1, 2010 through Dec. 31, 2011, Orban said.  The forint gained 0.8 percent to 272.17 per euro by 5:22
p.m. in Budapest. The benchmark  BUX  stock index rose 1 percent,
driven by a 3.1 percent gain by OTP Bank Nyrt., the nation’s
largest lender, while Magyar Telekom Nyrt. dropped 2.9 percent
and refiner Mol Nyrt. declined 0.7 percent.  The currency has surged 5.4 percent since Sept. 8, when
Hungary committed to next year’s budget target, the best
performance among more than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Hungary’s government, which refused to talk about a new
loan program to the  International Monetary Fund , bowed to
pressure from Brussels to recommit to narrowing the budget
shortfall amid a Europe-wide push to reduce deficits and debt.
The EU and the IMF saved the country from default with a 20
billion-euro ($28 billion) bailout loan in 2008.  Rating Threat  Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service last month
reiterated a threat to cut Hungary’s credit rating and called on
the government to clarify its economic policies.  S&P lowered the outlook on Hungary’s BBB- rating to
negative in July and a one-step cut would reduce the grade to
junk for the first time since 1992. Moody’s is also reviewing
Hungary for possible downgrade, though it rates the country
Baa1, two steps higher than S&P.  Hungary will take over the EU’s six-month rotating
presidency in January as the bloc grapples to contain a
sovereign debt crisis.  Orban said yesterday “it would be embarrassingly
ridiculous” if the country holding the presidency would violate
the bloc’s rules. Hungary has been in breach of deficit rules
since joining the bloc in 2004. European Commission President
 Jose Manuel Barroso , who yesterday met with Orban in Pecs,
southern Hungary,  he had “full confidence” in Hungary’s
deficit-cut efforts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  