-- Hungary Says Spilled Toxic Red Sludge's Arsenic Content Exceeded Limit
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-10-13T12:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/hungary-says-spilled-toxic-red-sludge-s-arsenic-content-exceeded-limit.html
The arsenic content of the toxic
sludge released in Hungary when a reservoir burst last week
exceeded the limit for such waste in the vicinity of the wall
breach, the Hungarian Academy of Science said today.  The collapse of the wall on Oct. 4 unleashed a torrent of
toxic material on nearby villages that eventually reached the
Danube through local waterways. The number of people killed by
the toxic waste reached nine after a victim died in the hospital
today, the country’s emergency service said on its  website .  Scientists are continuing tests to determine the reason for
the elevated arsenic content, the  academy  in Budapest said in an
e-mailed statement today. The waste material’s content of
cadmium, chromium, mercury, nickel, lead and zinc was within the
limit, according to the statement.  “Water reserves aren’t directly threatened by the toxic
material as not even the most hazardous heavy metals contained
in the sludge seeped deeper than 10 centimeters into the
ground,” the academy said.  An aerial photo of the reservoir, taken by the Hungarian
company  Interspect  on June 11, showed a leak at the northern
wall of the reservoir, the environmental group WWF Hungary said
on its website. The company, which specializes in aerial
photography, shared the photo with universities and
environmental groups, Interspect director Gabor Bako told the
Associated Press.  No Evidence  Hungary’s government has no evidence of the toxic sludge
reservoir that burst last week having leaked before the spill,
disaster commissioner  Gyorgy Bakondi  told Bloomberg News in
Veszprem, Hungary today.  The government’s environmental agency examined the
reservoir two weeks before the accident and found everything in
order, AP said. Police are scrutinizing the photo as part of an
investigation into the causes of the accident, according to AP.  There has been no shift at the endangered section of the
reservoir wall and two of three dikes planned to contain a
potential new spill have been completed, according to the
government’s  website . The third is being elevated, it said.  The worst-hit towns of Kolontar and Devecser, about 160
kilometers (100 miles) southwest of Budapest, are now safe
because of the dikes, Interior Minister  Sandor Pinter  told
reporters in nearby Veszprem today.  Worker Statements  Workers at Magyar Aluminium Zrt., the alumina plant that
owns the reservoir, testified against Zoltan Bakonyi, the
detained top executive at the company, also known as Mal,
 Nepszabadsag  said.  Investigators have more than 20 statements against Bakonyi,
including from other executives, which claim that he had been
aware of the diluted sludge seeping through the wall of the
reservoir, the Budapest-based newspaper said, without citing
anyone. A court in the town of Veszprem will decide today on the
potential extension of Bakonyi’s detention, a spokeswoman for
the court told Bloomberg News.  Lajos Tolnay , Mal’s chairman and 40 percent owner, said the
accident was caused by “an unpreventable outside force, that
is, the outcome of conditions in nature,”  Figyelo  reported. Mal
staff followed all the regulations governing sludge storage, he
said in an interview with the Budapest-based weekly, to be
published tomorrow.  The government has excluded the possibility of the accident
having been a result of natural causes and “could only have been
a human or technological error,” Bakondi said in Veszprem today.
Mal may resume production tomorrow or Friday after the state
took control of the company and froze its assets, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  