-- UPS, Layne, Zephyr Are Among Companies Helping in Chile Mine-Rescue Effort
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2010-10-13T17:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/ups-layne-zephyr-are-among-companies-helping-in-chile-mine-rescue-effort.html
The 33 miners being rescued in the
Chilean desert today are wearing chest straps made by  Zephyr
Technology  of Annapolis, Maryland, to monitor their vital signs.
They are being hauled up through a shaft drilled by  Layne
Christensen Co.  of Mission Woods, Kansas.  Companies from the U.S., Canada and South Africa have
joined the Chilean government and businesses to free the copper
miners who were trapped half a mile underground for two months.
Oil and gas services providers, drilling specialists and mining
equipment manufacturers provided aid for the rescue operation
that has aired live on television around the world.  “Of course there’s publicity, but at the end of the day,
we have the technology,” Asher Gendelman, a vice president of
closely held Zephyr, said today in an interview. “They need it.
It happens to be the right thing to do.”  Zephyr’s Chilean partner supplied a physician to analyze
and monitor the data from its chest harnesses.  United Parcel Service Inc. , the world’s largest package-
delivery company, touted on its blog its role in the rescue, for
which it sent seven shipments with more than 50,000 pounds
(22,680 kilograms) of mining equipment “that required creative
logistics with multiple flights and trucks.” The Atlanta-based
company said it acted at the request of the Chilean Embassy.  Murray & Roberts Holdings Ltd. , South Africa’s second-
largest construction company by market value, and its Chilean
affiliates provided a large-diameter drilling machine called the
Strata 950 for use in the rescue. The 40-ton machine, which was
already in Chile, was one of at least three devices used to bore
into the earth as rescuers tried to reach the miners after the
Aug. 5 mine collapse.  ‘Feather In Our Cap’  Ultimately, the miners were being rescued through another
hole drilled by Layne Christensen.  “We are very privileged to have been a part of this
process, even though it’s not our hole being used, and it’s a
feather in our cap as South Africans as leaders in underground
mining,” Ed Jardim, a Murray & Roberts spokesman, said today in
an e-mail. “We proposed the design of the rescue process and
capsule and together with many other inputs, the final ‘Phoenix’
capsule was designed by the Chilean Navy and is now rescuing the
miners one-by-one.”  Andrew Schmitt , Layne’s chief executive officer, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call seeking comment.  The company’s Latin American affiliate, Geotec Boyles
Brothers SA, brought a Schramm T130 drill to the site about two
weeks after the collapse, Layne said in an Oct. 10 press
release. A team used the drill to create a hole 26 inches (66
centimeters) in diameter that could fit the four-meter-long
rescue capsule.  Precision Drilling Corp. , an oil-field services provider
based in Calgary, also drilled a backup rescue route.  The company is “honored to have been part of the rescue
mission,” Precision Drilling said today on its website, where
it has been posting updates on the rescue’s progress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  