-- Hurricane to Spare Mexican Resorts on Path to Cuba
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 2010-10-13T18:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/hurricane-paula-likely-to-spare-mexican-resorts-oil-wells-on-path-to-cuba.html
Hurricane Paula has stopped in the
Yucatan Channel, where National Hurricane Center forecasters
expect it to weaken and then resume a move toward Cuba.  Paula, with maximum winds of 100 miles (160 kilometers) per
hour, was 55 miles (89 kilometers) west-southwest from the Cuban
coast, according to a hurricane center bulletin issued just
before 2 p.m. East Coast time. It is a “small” Category 2
storm on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson  scale, the center said.  “Paula has probably reached its peak intensity,” said
 Thomas Downs , a meteorologist with commercial forecaster  Weather
2000 Inc.  in New York.  Paula is forecast to turn east and strike the north coast
of Cuba tomorrow, then break up over the island nation this
weekend, according to the hurricane center. Its winds are
expected to reach Cuba’s western edge today.  There is enough doubt in the forecast that a tropical storm
watch has been issued for the Florida Keys from Craig Key west,
including the Dry Tortugas, according to the center.  A storm watch means winds of at least 39 mph are possible
within two days, according to the center.  Downs said he expects the storm to weaken as it moves
toward Cuba, encountering mountains as well as high winds. If
Paula retains its strength, it will end up out in the Atlantic,
Downs said.  “It may be swept up beyond the Bahamas,” Downs said.  No Threat to Gulf  The storm won’t be a threat to U.S. oil installations in
the Gulf of Mexico, according to  Jim Rouiller , senior energy
meteorologist for Planalytics Inc in Berwyn, Pennsylvania.  The main impact may be heavy rain rather than damaging
winds as Paula stays out to sea. The storm’s hurricane-force
winds of at least 74 mph extend out as much as 15 miles, and its
tropical storm-force winds of at least 39 mph reach 60 miles
from the eye.  “Paula is a smaller than usual hurricane,” the center
said in its forecast analysis.  Paula’s small size may have spared Mexico’s Yucatan coast
from any damage, according to a statement by AIR Worldwide Corp.
in Boston. AIR is a risk modeler for the insurance industry.  “With hurricane-force winds extending only 15 miles
outward from the center, Paula did not bring damaging winds to
the hotel-lined Yucatan coast,” the statement said. “In
Cancun, maximum recorded winds were below tropical storm
strength.”  Cancun International Airport  reopened this morning after
closing last night, according to its website.  A hurricane warning, meaning winds of at least 74 mph may
occur within 36 hours, has been issued for Cuba’s Pinar Del Rio
province. Mexico dropped a similar warning for the Yucatan
Peninsula and replaced it with a tropical storm warning from
Cancun to Cabo Catoche, according to the advisory.  Paula is the ninth hurricane and the 16th named storm, with
winds of at least 39 mph, to form in the Atlantic season. The
average season has 11 named storms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net 
 Randall Hackley  in Zurich at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  