-- Victims of 1998 U.S. African Embassy Bombings Testify About Mayhem, Blood
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/victims-of-1998-u-s-african-embassy-bombings-testify-about-mayhem-blood.html
Survivors of the 1998 bombings of
the U.S. embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam,
Tanzania, testified in the trial of  Ahmed Ghailani , the first
Guantanamo Bay detainee to be prosecuted in a civilian court.  Ghailani, 36, a Tanzanian, is charged with participating in
a global conspiracy with al-Qaeda leader  Osama bin Laden  that
includes the near-simultaneous attacks on the two U.S. embassies
attacks killed 224 people, including 12 U.S. citizens.  George Mimba, a computer specialist at the U.S. embassy in
Nairobi, where 213 died, described crawling out of the
building’s wreckage after the blast only to find the area strewn
with corpses.  “All I could see were bodies,” Mimba said yesterday in
federal court in New York. “I looked over to where there were
buses for school children and in every direction I turned to
there were just bodies. Blood poured from the buses.”  U.S. prosecutors say that Ghailani was part of an al-Qaeda
cell that carried out the attacks, and helped buy the TNT and
gas tanks used for the bomb and a Nissan truck used by
terrorists to deliver it to the U.S. embassy in Tanzania.  The Rev. John Kiongo testified he went to the Nairobi
embassy to visit his brother who worked in a warehouse there.
Kiongo said his niece was going to study in the U.S. and he met
her at his brother’s office to give her a gift of money. Kiongo
said he was seated there when a bomb went off.  Two Bombs  Witnesses testified at a 2001 trial of Ghailani’s co-
defendants that the terrorists detonated two bombs in the
Nairobi attack, to maximize casualties, and that the bombers
opened fire upon embassy guards throughout the attack.  Kiongo said his brother and niece walked up to the window
after the first bomb and looked out.  “I could hear my brother say, ‘That man is shooting! That
man is shooting!’” Kiongo said.  ‘Then, all hell broke loose,” he said. “After that I
didn’t hear anything else.”  He was later found in the wreckage
and blinded for three days, he said.  Asked what happened to his brother and niece, Kiongo said,
“both of them perished.”  The jury also saw two videos yesterday taken in the
aftermath of the bombings. The Tanzanian video showed smoke
pouring from the embassy compound with charred trees and
blackened vehicle chassis on the street outside and in an
adjacent lot. A mutilated body was briefly shown.  Nairobi Video  A video taken in the aftermath of the Nairobi attack,
showed a high-rise residential building with all its windows
blown out, and a building about nine stories tall reduced to
rubble. A crater was filled with water tinged with blood.  Ghailani has pleaded not guilty to the charges. His lawyer,
Steven Zissou, told jurors yesterday that his client had been
“duped” by members of the cell into participating in the
attacks and hadn’t been a knowing participant.  He fled Africa with a senior al-Qaeda explosives trainer
and remained active in the terror group, according to
prosecutors. He was indicted by a federal grand jury in New York
in December 1998.  Ghailani was captured in Pakistan in July 2004 and held by
the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency where he was subjected to
“enhanced interrogation techniques,” the U.S. has said. He was
taken to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, in September 2006 and transferred
to federal court in New York last year, after the Obama
administration said it planned to close Guantanamo and try some
terrorism suspects held there in civilian courts.  The trial resumes today.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: 