-- Wal-Mart Sees `Positive' Fourth-Quarter U.S. Sales
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-10-13T20:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/wal-mart-sees-positive-fourth-quarter-u-s-results-ceo-mike-duke-says.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Duke  said he expects “positive” fourth-quarter
sales at U.S. stores open at least a year, which have declined
for five consecutive quarters.  “I feel good about our U.S. plans,” Duke, 60, said during
an  investor  conference today in Rogers, Arkansas. The company
has yet to release a detailed forecast for the period. Two
months ago, Wal-Mart  said  third-quarter same-store sales in the
U.S. would range from a 2 percent drop to a 1 percent gain.  The world’s biggest retailer has returned items to shelves
to win back American consumers as they cope with a jobless rate
near a 26-year high. Cleveland Research Co. analyst  Jeff Stinson 
signaled yesterday that Wal-Mart’s sales may fail to improve by
the holidays because of “poor” in-store execution on its
displays and a lack of advertising.  Stinson, based in Cleveland, has a neutral rating on the
shares. Wal-Mart fell 10 cents to $53.82 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have risen
less than 1 percent this year, compared with a 5.6 percent gain
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  U.S. stores chief  Bill Simon  said in August that the
retailer has restored “thousands” of products removed during
previous inventory reductions, including rice and beans and some
lines of cat food. The move should help the Bentonville,
Arkansas-based company reverse its same-store sales slump by the
holiday season, he said then.  ‘Slight Surprise’  “The positive sales call out is a slight surprise,” said
 Brian Sozzi , a New York-based analyst at Wall Street Strategies
Inc. It may not be meaningful to investors because Wal-Mart
faces an “easy” comparison with last year’s fourth quarter,
when U.S. same-store sales fell 2 percent, he said.  Company-wide capital spending is expected to be $13.5
billion to $14.5 billion in fiscal 2012, Wal-Mart said today in
a statement in which it lowered by $1 billion the top end of its
projected capital expenditure for the current fiscal year to $14
billion. The comparable figure for fiscal 2010, which ended in
January, was $12.2 billion.  The retailer forecast sales growth of 4 percent to 6
percent in the next fiscal year, the same pace it expects for
the current period. The company is targeting U.S. households
earning $70,000 a year or less, which account for 68 percent of
its U.S. business, Simon said.  Piling on Discounts  Some retailers are piling on discounts ahead of the holiday
season, typically their biggest sales period, to lure frugal-
minded consumers.  Target Corp.  said last week that it would
lower prices on more than 1,000 toys to attract shoppers. Wal-
Mart yesterday responded with its own discounts, advertising
savings on brands such as Barbie and Nerf toys.  Confidence among U.S. consumers, whose spending accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy, fell in September,
according to the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer sentiment. The U.S. lost more jobs than forecast that
month, with the unemployment rate holding at 9.6 percent,
according to the Labor Department.  That’s part of what has pushed Wal-Mart to look abroad for
growth. Today, international CEO  Doug McMillon  identified Japan,
Argentina, Brazil and Chile as areas where Wal-Mart may seek to
expand via acquisitions. Last month, the retailer offered to buy
Massmart Holdings Ltd., South Africa’s biggest food and general
goods wholesaler, for 29.8 billion rand ($4.4 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 Rajello@bloomberg.net  