-- Walder Intends to Head New York’s MTA Through 2015
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-10-13T20:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/walder-says-he-intends-to-serve-as-head-of-new-york-s-mta-through-2015.html
Jay Walder , chairman and chief
executive officer of the  New York ’s Metropolitan Transportation
Authority, said he intends to serve his full six-year term which
ends in 2015, regardless of who is elected governor in November.  “I’d like to stay, I hope to stay and I expect to stay,”
Walder told a breakfast gathering of business and political
leaders today sponsored by Crains New York Business magazine.  The Legislature last year consolidated the former positions
of executive director and chairman into one job with a fixed
six-year term to “allow somebody, whoever it is, to stand up
and make the difficult decisions that need to be made” without
political interference, Walder said.  The transit agency, the largest in the U.S. and with a  $13
billion  budget, carries 8.5 million daily bus, subway and
commuter train riders and operates nine toll-generating bridges
and tunnels. It has become an issue in this year’s gubernatorial
campaign as Democrat  Andrew Cuomo  and Republican  Carl Paladino 
each criticized its management and used the word “overhaul” to
describe what the agency needs. Paladino has said he would
dismantle the MTA and fire Walder if elected.  ‘Horribly Mismanaged’  “The MTA is horribly mismanaged, and it’s a sinkhole of
money,” Paladino said today in a news release issued by his
campaign. “It’s among the least transparent entities in the
world and was even found to have kept two separate sets of
books. New Yorkers are paying more each year and getting less in
service.”  MTA spokesman  Jeremy Soffin  declined to comment.  Walder said he doesn’t intend to talk with either candidate
until after the Nov. 2 election. “I have 21 days to hopefully
not have any conversations,” he said in response to a
reporter’s question.  In his speech this morning, Walder said the agency had
eliminated 3,500 positions, including 20 percent from its
headquarters, as part of actions that have trimmed $500 million
from the budget.  Countdown clocks inform passengers when they can expect the
next subway at 75 stations, and more than 3,700 working security
cameras monitored by the New York Police Department have been
installed, he said. Last week the agency signed contracts with
 AT&T Inc.  and  Deutsche Telekom AG ’s cellphone unit, T-Mobile, to
provide services including Wi-Fi in subway tunnels.  ‘Simple Point’  “The point here is simple,” he said. “Things are
happening.”  Walder, 51, who was nominated by Governor  David Paterson  in
July 2009 and confirmed by the senate two months later, receives
a salary of $350,000 a year and may be removed by a vote of the
MTA board.  Earlier this month, the board approved a series of fare and
toll increases. They were meant to close a $900 million deficit
because of a $140 million cut in state aid and less-than-
forecast revenue from a payroll tax in New York City and seven
suburban counties served by the agency’s trains and buses.  Former MTA Chairman  Peter Kalikow  resigned in 2007 without
serving the remainder of his six-year term, saying he wanted
newly elected Governor  Eliot Spitzer  to choose his own leader.
Several months after Paterson succeeded Spitzer in 2008, former
MTA executive director  Eliot Sander  resigned, creating the
opportunity for Paterson to appoint Walder, who took office Oct.
5, 2009.  Walder served as finance director of Transport for London
from 2000 to 2007, and executive director of the New York City
Transit Authority, which operates the city’s buses and subways,
from 1993 to 1995.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York City Hall at 
 hgoldman@loomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 