-- Wall Street Plays Dr. Jekyll to Avoid Courtrooms: Susan Antilla
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2010-10-13T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/wall-street-plays-dr-jekyll-to-avoid-court-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
When duped investors set out to make
themselves whole after a fleecing by a broker, the American way
is to hustle them off to a private court run by  Wall Street .
It’s a tradition that was set in stone when the  Supreme Court  in
1987 said that, if an investor signed an agreement to arbitrate,
the sorry loser is out of luck if he ever wants a day in court.  Brokers have enjoyed having a say in the management of
their own justice system ever since then, even getting to stack
every three-person jury with an investment professional. So
you’ve got to wonder what’s going on when regulators at the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, whose paychecks come
from Wall Street, are all of a sudden recommending something
that would benefit investors in Finra’s courts: the option to
have a panel that excludes brokerage employees.  You can think of the role of the so-called industry
arbitrator the way you might if you sued me for libel and wound
up with four very opinionated columnists on your 12-member jury,
or one-third of the panel. When investors come to  Finra  with a
claim that they’ve lost $100,000 or more, it’s mandatory to
include a panelist from finance. Why would a clear-thinking
person in the brokerage industry contemplate giving that up?  It’s a real head-scratcher when you consider that the
status quo turns out to be an even better deal for Wall Street
than we’d ever known. For the past two years, Finra has run a
pilot program with 14 brokerage firms that agreed to give
customers the option to ax the industry guy or gal from an
arbitration panel.  Decision Record  At the end of two years, 23 cases had made it all the way
through to a decision without first reaching a settlement. And
guess what? Investors won half of the six cases where there was
a finance person on the panel, but they scored in 12 of the 17
cases, or more than 70 percent, when the panel had nobody from
Wall Street.  “The whole character of the proceeding changes when it’s
an all-public panel,” said Seth Lipner, a  Long Island ,  New
York , lawyer who represented customers in  two  of the pilot  cases 
where investors won decisions from Wall Street-free panels.
Arbitrators “are more aggressive in wanting to know about the
terrible stuff that happened,” he said.  Nancy Condon, a Finra spokeswoman, said in an e-mail that
there are “too few awards to draw statistical conclusions.”
Wall Street arbitrators aren’t involved in cases where investors
claim to have lost less than $100,000 because a single public
arbitrator decides those cases, she  said .  Seeking Change  Finra  this month will ask the Securities and Exchange
Commission for a rule change to give investors the option of
having their cases heard by panels without a financial industry
representative, thereby making the pilot program permanent. The
request reflects the Dr. Jekyll side of Finra’s dual personality
as a self-regulator: it sometimes fulfills its charge to protect
investors -- thus, a pro-investor proposal -- but often gets
sidelined when the brokers that endow its budget push the agency
toward light-touch regulation.  The SEC will seek public comment once it gets Finra’s
proposal, and you can expect the usual suspects to weigh in.  Andrew De Souza, a Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association spokesman, said the group would like to see
the full Finra proposal before passing judgment, but Sifma in
the past has been clear about its soft spot for industry
arbitrators.  In 2007, Sifma published a  white paper  that depicted
arbitration as a fair process in which non-Wall Street
arbitrators benefited from having a panelist associated with the
securities business in part because -- hold the guffaws --“they
can serve to educate them” about things such as industry
customs.  Fairness Concerns  Any benefits from that educational component seem to be
going unnoticed by aggrieved investors. When two law professors
sought out the opinions of arbitration participants in 2008,
four out of 10 investors said they started out with concerns
about arbitration before they even filed their dispute; by the
time their arbitrations were done, six out of 10 had fairness
concerns.  In spite of the obvious advantage Wall Street gets by
having one of its own on dispute panels, there are political
reasons that industry types might actually support Finra’s
proposal: forces that are threatening mandatory arbitration
altogether. The  Dodd-Frank Act  has the SEC looking into whether
arbitration contracts are in the public interest; the
Arbitration Fairness Act of 2009 had raised questions on the
issue even before Dodd-Frank passed.  ‘What’s Driving This’  If this pro-investor proposal goes through, the SEC will be
better able to justify the preservation of mandatory
arbitration, Wall Street’s prized license to stay out of court.  “That’s what’s driving this,” says Ryan Bakhtiari, a
California lawyer who won $1.56 million for clients in  two  pilot
 cases  where no Wall Streeters were on the panel.  Condon notes that the pilot program began in 2008, “before
regulatory reform occurred,” and that the point of Finra’s
proposal is to give “choice” to investors.  Another choice would be to let customers decide whether
they want arbitration at all, opening the courts to injured
investors. Don’t hold your breath to see a proposal like that
make it to the SEC from Wall Street’s Finra cops.    Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  