-- Wheat Declines on Signs Grain Demand to Ease, Benefical Weather Forecast
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-10-13T18:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/wheat-futures-rise-as-a-slumping-dollar-may-spur-increase-in-u-s-exports.html
Wheat futures fell, erasing earlier
gains, on speculation that grain demand will ease after prices
jumped almost 10 percent last week.  Wheat dropped in tandem with corn futures. Both grains are
used in livestock feed. Corn declined as much as 2.3 percent
following a 16 percent jump in the previous three sessions after
the U.S. Department of Agriculture lowered its forecast for
global grain supplies.  “Corn really tipped the scales here, wanting to sell off,
and then wheat sold off with it too,” said  Lane Broadbent , a
vice president of KIS Futures Inc. in Oklahoma City.  Wheat futures for December delivery fell 7.25 cents, or 1
percent, to close at $7.0275 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Earlier, the price rose as much as 1.7
percent.  The commodity has jumped 46 percent since the end of June.
Russia banned grain exports in August following the most-severe
drought in five decades.  On Oct. 8, the USDA slashed its estimate for corn
production by 3.8 percent from a month earlier. The agency cut
its estimate for global wheat supplies by 1.8 percent.  Wheat also dropped today on signs that beneficial weather
will boost crops.  “Spotty, locally heavy” rains fell on winter-wheat areas
yesterday from Kansas to Kentucky, and sections of the Midwest
were receiving more rain today,  Allen Motew , a meteorologist at
QT Weather in Chicago, said in a report.  “We’re into planting season now, and there’s dry weather
concern around, but we’ve got another 60 days before we really
get into big trouble,” Broadbent said. “If you get planted
before Christmas, you can still raise a crop.”  Dollar’s Slide  The dollar’s slump has boosted the appeal of grain sales
from the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter.  Today, the  greenback  approached a nine-month low against a
against a basket of six currencies. U.S. exporters sold 100,000
metric tons to Iraq for delivery in the year that began June 1,
the USDA said.  “We’ve got a dollar that’s been weakening, and that’s
going to help make U.S. wheat prices more attractive,” said  Dan Kuechenmeister , the manager of the commodities department at RBC
Dain Rauscher in Minneapolis. Exports have been cut way back
from Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, so the number
of shops somebody can go to buy wheat seems to be dwindling.”  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  