-- Woodside Petroleum Says Don Voelte to Retire as CEO in Second Half of 2011
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-13T06:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/woodside-petroleum-says-don-voelte-to-retire-as-ceo-in-second-half-of-2011.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  Chief
Executive Officer  Don Voelte  plans to retire in the second half
of 2011 after the company’s A$13 billion ($12.8 billion) Pluto
natural gas project begins production.  Woodside, whose shares have almost tripled in Sydney since
Voelte joined Australia’s second-largest oil and gas producer
in April 2004, is considering executives inside and outside the
company as possible successors, it said in a statement today.  Pluto is set to become the fastest liquefied natural gas
venture developed, with the initial discovery of the field in
2005, the Perth-based producer says on its website. The
development is among more than a dozen proposed LNG projects in
Australia and Papua New Guinea seeking to tap rising Asian
demand for cleaner-burning fuel to curb carbon emissions.  “His legacy will be the Pluto project,”  Adrian Wood , an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Sydney, said by phone today.
“Because he has done it so quickly, he has beaten major
bottlenecks” as rivals compete for customers and labor.  The Nebraska-born executive, who previously served as head
of exploration at Mobil Corp. and as an executive at Atlantic
Richfield Co., will have been at the company more than seven
years when he steps down. Voelte, 57, said he wants to give the
board enough time to transition to a new chief executive. Voelte
doesn’t intend to take another job at a publicly-listed company,
he said at a news conference in Perth today.  Potential Replacements  Woodside, which has hired Heidrick & Struggles to search
for a new CEO, didn’t identify potential replacements.  Kevin Gallagher  oversees the North West Shelf project, which started
LNG deliveries in 1989, and  Lucio Della Martina  runs Pluto.
 Feisal Ahmed  is executive vice president of project development.  Woodside said last year that the costs of the Pluto
development would rise by as much as A$1.1 billion as labor
disputes disrupted construction at the site in Karratha, about
1,600 kilometers (994 miles) north of Perth. The company also
delayed a decision to expand the project until next year after
an exploration campaign progressed slower than expected.  “In Australia, there’s particular challenges coming,”
Voelte said at Woodside’s offices. “Skill shortages, enough
folks to work, industrial relations, whole issues around how you
operate safely, how do you build projects economically.”  Woodside declined 0.7 percent to A$43.72 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of Sydney trading, while the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index 
was little changed. The shares closed at A$15.97 on April 5,
2004, the day Voelte started.  ‘Own’ LNG Project  The new chief executive will need to “own” the proposed
Browse LNG project, Voelte said. Woodside and its partners in
the venture early this year chose a site in the Kimberley region
to process gas from the Browse field and target a decision on
whether to commit to the project in 2012.  “For a project which is tens of billions of dollars, the
next big step for  Woodside , you don’t just approve a final
investment decision and then hand it to a new CEO,” said Voelte,
who has a degree in civil engineering from the University of
Nebraska and is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.  Woodside is more certain the $30 billion development in
Western Australia will go ahead after the state government
started a forced acquisition of land for the venture, the
company said Sept. 2. The move to take over the site followed
the failure of local indigenous groups with claims to the land
to reach agreement, Premier  Colin Barnett  said at the time.  The Australian oil producer also has clashed with East
Timor over how to develop the Sunrise LNG project.  Mark Chatterji , the company’s chief financial officer,
plans to leave at the end of 2010 to return to the U.S. for
family reasons, Woodside said in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 