-- Myriad Genetics Rises as Analyst Cites Test, Suggests Possible Acquisition
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-10-13T20:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-13/myriad-genetics-rises-as-analyst-mentions-acquisition-update1-.html
Myriad Genetics Inc. , the maker of
genetic tests that predict breast cancer risk, rose to its
highest price in five months in Nasdaq trading after an analyst
upgraded the company and said it may be an acquisition target.  Myriad rose $1.28, or 6.9 percent, to $19.94 at the 4 pm
close of Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, the highest
value since May 4.  Michael Yee , an analyst at RBC Capital
Markets in San Francisco, boosted his  rating  on Myriad to
“outperform” in a note today to investors that cited possible
buyers. Chief Executive Officer  Peter Meldrum  said that the Salt
Lake City-based company doesn’t want to be acquired.  Myriad’s test that identifies genes involved in some breast
cancers will gain wider use from a new class of cancer drugs
being developed, Yee said. He expects Myriad to reiterate its
earnings projection for the year that started June 1 when it
reports quarterly results Nov. 2.  Roche Holding AG  of Basel,
Switzerland; London-based  AstraZeneca Plc ; and Paris-based
 Sanofi-Aventis SA  all may be possible buyers, Yee said in the
note.  “I think the shares have been beaten down, but sentiment
is improving, and there are opportunities in the next six to 12
months that the street is underappreciating,” Yee said in a
telephone interview. “Plus the stock is cheap.”  Myriad shares have  declined  22 percent in the past 12
months.  Acquisition Not Sought  The company is not interested in being acquired, CEO Meldrum
said in a telephone interview today.  “Our goal is to be a multibillion dollar company and become
the global leader in the field of molecular diagnostics,”
Meldrum said. “That is our vision and we want to do that on our
own.”  Myriad gained 10 percent yesterday, a day after the company
announced that its Prolaris test can predict whether men who
underwent surgery for prostate cancer are likely to survive over
a 10-year period. The test may identify men who should be
treated aggressively and those who can be monitored and receive
treatment only as needed, the company said in a statement.  While the Prolaris test is a small product today, it
represents a “longer-term attractive opportunity,” Yee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 