-- All Fiscal Roads Lead U.S. to a Value-Added Tax: Albert R. Hunt
-- 
-- 2010-03-21T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-21/all-fiscal-roads-lead-u-s-to-a-value-added-tax-albert-r-hunt.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama ,
nearing the end of a bruising health-care battle, should
consider the counsel of a former Bush official and propose
a radical new  consumption tax  that most Americans oppose.  
 Sounds nuts. It really isn’t. Just follow along for a
bit.  
 The federal budget deficit problem is chronic and most
experts, and ultimately markets, see it as systemic and
lethal; partial fixes involve painful spending cutbacks and
middle-class tax increases.  
 The promise of the president’s bipartisan fiscal
commission, due to make recommendations after the November
congressional elections, was set back last week when five
of the six Republicans named to the panel by congressional
leaders are theological opponents of any tax increases (the
exception being New Hampshire Senator  Judd Gregg ). No one
seriously believes the deficit can be controlled without
cutting spending on entitlements and raising taxes.  
 With this background the proposal by Columbia Law
School professor Michael Graetz, a top Treasury official in
the first  Bush administration  (the better Bush years in the
view of most Democrats and independents), to partially
replace the federal income tax with a consumption tax may
start to look like more of a winner, on the substance
certainly, and perhaps even politically.  
 Worsening Deficit  
 Last year, Graetz published a book on this notion,
“100 Million Unnecessary Returns: A Simple, Fair, and
Competitive Tax Plan for the  United States .” In an
interview last week, he said he had tweaked his proposals
to adjust for the worsening deficit realities and some new
data.  
 A look at the options in fiscal year 2015 is
instructive. Using reasonable economic assumptions, to
reach Obama’s target of a deficit that is 3 percent of
gross domestic product by that year would require about
$400 billion in spending cuts or tax increases (That
assumes terminating the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy,
which most Republicans resist).  
 Graetz would impose a 14 percent value-added tax on
goods and services; it would be collected piecemeal at each
stage of production. Small businesses, those with gross
receipts of less than $500,000, would be exempt.  
 Ending Income Taxes  
 He then would eliminate the  federal income tax  for
taxpayers making less than $100,000 a year. A 25 percent
rate would be slapped on income above that level, and, he
says, a 30 percent or 35 percent rate on income above
$500,000. This would remove up to 150 million Americans
from the federal income-tax rolls.  
 The corporate  tax rate  would be slashed to below 20
percent from the current 35 percent. This would make
American corporations more competitive globally and the
U.S. a more attractive place to invest. Almost 150 nations
have a value-added or consumption tax, the outliers being
some African and Middle Eastern countries, Greenland and
the U.S.  
 Payroll taxes would be unchanged and, with cost of
living adjustments, Social Security recipients unaffected,
as would expenditures in education and most health care.
Adjustments would be made so the working poor, recipients
of the current  earned income-tax credit , would do just as
well.  
 Trimming Deductions  
 An important question, Graetz says, is exactly which
current deductions would be eliminated; this is a political
and budgetary consideration. He envisions doing away with
state and local tax write-offs as incentives would be
created for states to piggyback off the value-added tax.
Charitable deductions would be unchanged.  
 There would be savings in compliance costs; Graetz
dismisses complaints about that. “If  Sri Lanka  can
administer a value-added tax, we can,” he says.  
 A bottom line, he sees, would be a tax system that
even if isn’t more progressive and more simplified than the
current one, at least encourages economic growth and
investment, and is easier to adjust for changing economic
circumstances.  
 “We can no longer afford the luxury of a tax system
that relegates the goal of economic growth to the back
burner,” Graetz declares.  
 Five-Year Plan  
 The most compelling case for the Graetz tax may be the
alternatives. To reduce the deficit by $400 billion five
years from now, assume half from spending cutbacks and half
from more revenue.  
 On the spending side, a big contributor would have to
be the politically sensitive pension programs such as
Social Security. Reducing the cost of living increases,
boosting the  retirement age  and doubling the wages subject
to Social Security taxes would get about a third of it. The
other two-thirds would have to come from cutting the
 defense budget  -- that means more than a handful of the big
politically potent weapons systems --and freezing most
discretionary, while killing more federal, programs than
the government has done combined over recent decades.  
 On the tax side, curbing or killing deductions for
state and local taxes, the mortgages, charitable
contributions and the exclusion from taxes for employer
provided health coverage would get fairly close; the target
could be met by a carbon tax. All this would be while
keeping the current federal income tax. Remember the
terrible tempest over any part of this package --limiting
the exclusions for employer health plans or charitable
donations or cutting the home-mortgage deduction.  
 Political Peril  
 Yeah, political realists say any consumption tax --aka
a national  sales tax  -- is suicidal. It cost  Al Ullman  his
seat, they say. Since almost no one outside of  Oregon 
remembers the late Democratic congressman, he was the  House
Ways and Means Committee  chairman from 1975 to 1981 whose
 Washington  duties caused him to lose touch with his
sprawling district. He would have lost even if he had never
mentioned a value-added tax.  
 Yes, a consumption tax would be politically perilous.
Yet, this fall, voters and the press should ask every
congressional candidate if it’s acceptable, five years into
the recovery, to run a  budget deficit  that by some
estimates may reach almost $1 trillion. If not, they should
be forced to spell out precisely how they would get it to
$500 billion.  
 The alternatives then will seem more perilous than
Michael Graetz’s value-added tax.  
 ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington
at Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        