-- My Casualty List Shows Stocks Ready to Rebound: John Dorfman
-- John Dorfman
-- 2009-12-28T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-27/my-casualty-list-shows-stocks-ready-to-rebound-john-dorfman.html

          
          
                  Dec. 28 (Bloomberg) - From 1999 through early 2007, I
compiled a quarterly Casualty List of banged-up stocks that I
believed had good rebound potential.  
 I'm resurrecting this idea. Here is the Fourth Quarter 2009
Casualty List, focusing on stocks that are down 15 percent or
more for the quarter as of Dec. 24, and that I think are likely
to recover smartly in 2010.  
 In the leadoff spot is Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. of
Pasadena, California. Joseph Jacobs, a engineer from Brooklyn,
New York, founded the company in 1947. It has grown to a
corporation with more than 160 offices in 20 countries, and with
revenue of more than $11 billion in a year, according to the
company's Web site.  
 A series of acquisitions fueled the growth at Jacobs.
Often, acquisitive companies borrow heavily to finance their
conquests. Not so with Jacobs. It carries debt equal to less
than 1 percent of stockholders' equity.  
 Jacobs doesn't have a nice, smooth earnings growth curve.
Earnings bounce up and down from year to year. But I hope that
the adoration of smoothness went out with Bernie Madoff. In any
case, Jacobs has turned a profit every year going back at least
to 1987, which is as far as the Bloomberg database carries me.  
 Jacobs shares fell as much as 15 percent in a single day on
Nov. 17, when the company forecast that it would earn $2.00 to
$2.60 a share in 2010. Analysts had been expecting about $2.80.
For the quarter, it is down about 16 percent.  
 Room for Buyers  
 Fidelity Management & Research, the Boston mutual fund
giant, was once the largest shareholder, but it has been selling
in 2009. I believe that Fidelity has now unloaded the vast
majority of its stake, so that the coast is clear for buyers to
come in without worrying about being trampled by an oversize
seller.  
 I like Jacobs because it has expertise in many aspects of
engineering, because it has large customers who can undertake
big, complex projects, and because of its sterling balance
sheet.  
 Harte-Hanks Inc., based in San Antonio, has fallen about 20
percent this quarter. It publishes direct-mail marketing
publications, notably the Pennysaver and The Flyer in California
and in Florida.  
 In its three best years, Harte-Hanks earned $1.26 to $1.39
a share. Analysts are predicting only 82 cents a share in 2010,
but I suspect the company might earn a dollar a share as the
economy revives more rapidly than people expect.  
 The stock is trading a little below $11. If I'm right, it is
selling for about 11 times 2010 earnings, a pretty multiple. If
I'm wrong and the analysts' consensus is right, it's at 13 times
earnings, still reasonably attractive.  
 Time Horizon  
 While I think Jacobs Engineering is a good three year-to-
five year pick, Harte-Hanks is more of a one-year strategy. I
think the Internet will continue stealing advertising market
share from print products over time. But as a play on a reviving
economy, I think Harte-Hanks is timely. If you achieve a gain,
I'd sell the stock as soon as the gain qualifies for long-term
capital-gains tax treatment.  
 Frontier Oil Corp., based in Houston, is having a terrible
year. Analysts expect that when it closes the books on 2009 it
will have earned 26 cents a share, the worst showing since 2003,
and a mere shadow of peak earnings, which were $4.62 a share in
2007.  
 That year, Frontier shares hit a high of about $48 a share.
Today they languish at less than $12.  
 Oil Prices  
 It seems to me that earnings between $1 and $2 a share
would suffice to lift the stock price substantially. I think
Frontier will enter that earnings zone in 2011, as oil prices
rise.  
 I think oil will rise because of increased demand by
reviving economies in the U.S. and Europe. The price might also
be pushed higher -- though I hope not -- by political turmoil in
the Middle East, Russia or Nigeria.  
 Frontier's specialty is refining heavy oil, which is
thicker than so-called light, sweet crude. Many refineries are
unable to cope with the more gunky grades of oil.  
 At present, demand isn't especially heavy. When demand
intensifies, the ability to refine heavy crude becomes a
desirable capability -- especially if light, sweet crude is in
short supply. I think Frontier's competitive position is likely
to improve in 2010 and 2011, and so is its pricing power.  
 The stock trades for eight times earnings and just over
book value (corporate net worth per share).  
 I'll round out the list with another niche energy stock,
Cal Dive International Inc. of Houston. If you need divers to
lay pipe or to repair an offshore rig under water, Cal Dive is
one of the leading suppliers.  
 Earnings Decline  
 Since it went public in 2006, Cal Dive has struggled.
Diluted earnings per share declined in 2007 and 2008, and seem
likely to decline again in 2009. The consensus calls for
earnings of 94 cents a share this year, down from $1.91 in 2006.  
 Why on earth would I want a stock whose earnings are in
their third straight year of decline? I like it because it
provides a useful service, and because the stock is just plain
cheap, trading at six times earnings and at very close to book
value.  
 Disclosure note: I currently have no long or short
positions in any of the stocks discussed in this week's column,
personally or for clients.  
 (John Dorfman, chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  
 Click on "Send Comment" in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Dec. 28 (Bloomberg) -- John Dorfman, chairman of Thuderstorm Capital and a columnist for Bloomberg News, talks with Bloomberg's Matt Miller about some of the stocks expected to rebound in 2010. 
     Among the companies Dorfman expects to recover next year are Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., Harte-Hanks Inc., Frontier Oil Corp. and Cal Dive International Inc. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
