-- Renault Agrees to Buy 25% Stake in Russia's AvtoVAZ
-- Ladka Bauerova
-- 2007-12-08T16:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-12-08/renault-agrees-to-buy-25-stake-in-russia-s-avtovaz-update1-.html

          
          
             Renault SA (RNO)  fought off rival bids to
buy 25 percent of  Russia 's biggest automaker,  OAO AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) , to
capitalize on rising demand for cars in a market that is
forecast to grow by about a fifth next year.  
 Carlos Ghosn , chief executive officer of  France 's second-
largest carmaker, and  Sergei Chemezov , general director of
Russian Technologies Corp., the state-run holding that controls
AvtoVAZ, today signed an agreement in Togliatti in western
Russia. They didn't disclose a price in an e-mailed statement.  
 ``Renault is practically buying a share of the market by
gaining additional production capacities,'' said Yelena Sakhnova, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Moscow. ``Renault
wanted to increase production of their Logan model in Russia.
AvtoVAZ needs new technologies'' to replace ageing models.  
 Carmakers are competing for a share of the Russian market,
where foreign auto sales soared by almost two-thirds through
September. Paris-based Renault already has a plant in Moscow,
while larger French rival  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  plans to choose a
factory site this month.  
 ``The Russian market will continue to boom for many years
to come,'' Ghosn said on a teleconference broadcast from
Togliatti, where the company is based. The AvtoVAZ plant ``has a
lot of capacity that can be brought to the market fast and cost
effectively.''  
 Growth Prospects  
 The Russian car market is expected to grow more than 20
percent this year and increase at a similar pace in 2008, Ghosn
said.  
 Renault thwarted rival offers from  General Motors Corp. (GM) ,
Volkswagen AG and Magna International Inc. Its stake would have
a value of $1.36 billion, based on AvtoVAZ's market value of
$5.44 billion at the close yesterday, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 Russian Technologies will form a joint venture with Renault
that will equally co-own 50 percent of the Russian carmaker,
Renault said in the statement.  
 Foreign car sales in Russia surged 63 percent to 1.14
million vehicles in the first nine months, the Association of
European Businesses said Oct. 9. GM's  Chevrolet  led the way,
with 131,653 sales.  
 Lada, AvtoVAZ's flagship model, will be given ``a
priority,'' with the goal of taking the brand to international
markets, Ghosn said. The company also plans to produce Renault
models and cars from its Nissan Motor Co. affiliate at the plant
for domestic sale as well as export, he added.  
 Renault's Chief Financial Officer Thierry Moulonguet said
the first task was to ``consolidate'' the export markets for the
Lada in the former Soviet Republics before going further afield.  
 Joint Project  
 The two partners will work on a new sedan for the Russian
market that AvtoVAZ agreed in July to develop with Magna, the
Canadian auto-parts maker, Chemezov said. The new model would
sell for about $15,000, he said.  
 ``We hope to get the engine technologies from Renault and
to work on creating a new platform for production at the
plant,'' Chemezov said. ``We will continue working on upgrading
the existing facilities and raising capacity to 1.5 million cars
a year.'' Current capacity is about 900,000 cars, he said.  
 Renault agreed ``a fair'' price for the stake and its offer
of technical support was the reason why AvtoVAZ chose it over
other bidders, Chemezov said at the press conference. The French
producer paid ``reasonable multiples,'' Moulonguet said on a
conference call from Paris.  
 `Major Phase'  
 ``This is a major phase in Renault's development in
 emerging markets ,'' Moulonguet said. ``Russia is a crucial
market for Renault.''  
 Russian car sales could reach 4 million vehicles a year in
2015, compared with 2.5 million expected for this year,
Moulonguet said on the call. AvtoVAZ has the potential to
increase its share of the Russian market to 40 percent from 30
percent, he said.  
 AvtoVAZ is in the process of restructuring its ownership
structure and would have been 75 percent owned by the Russian
Technologies before the stake's sale, with the other 25 percent
publicly traded once the restructuring was completed, Deutsche's
Sakhnova said.  
 ``Russian Technologies may sell some of its holding to the
public on the stock market and plans to maintain a 25 percent
stake in AvtoVAZ,'' Chemezov said. He said in September that 5
percent to 10 percent stakes were offered to Russian
billionaires Alexei Mordashov and  Alisher Usmanov .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Ermakova in Moscow at 
 mermakova@bloomberg.net ;
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at   k.campbell@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Jasper at   cjasper@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        