-- Adidas Sees 2011 Growth on China Rebound, Russian Demand
-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s   a n d   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2010-09-21T16:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/adidas-ceo-sees-2011-profit-growth-on-china-rebound-higher-russia-demand.html
Adidas AG , the world’s second-
largest sporting-goods maker, will increase sales and profit in
2011 as China rebounds and Russia becomes the company’s top
European market, Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Hainer  said.  Sales of new products such as Reebok ZigTech trainers will
also help boost sales next year, Hainer said in an interview
yesterday at Adidas’s headquarters in Herzogenaurach, Germany.
That will help compensate for the lack of a sporting event the
size of this year’s World Cup.  “You will see that in 2011 we will grow again,” said
Hainer, 56, referring to both revenue and earnings. “I don’t
see anything, honestly, that should hinder us from growing in
2011 and the years ahead.”  The sporting-goods maker, known for its three-striped logo,
has said sales this year will exceed 11 billion euros ($14.4
billion), driven by record soccer sales after this year’s World
Cup. Adidas sold more than twice as many jerseys as at the last
tournament four years ago, including 200,000 Spanish jerseys in
the weeks after the team became world champion.  The company’s biggest challenge next year will be to secure
sufficient manufacturing capacity to accommodate growth, Hainer
said. He’s increasing production sites in Laos, Vietnam and
Cambodia, adding to those in China, where wages at privately
owned companies will rise by as much as 17 percent annually in
the next three years, according to Deutsche Bank AG estimates.  Adidas fell  4 cents to 43.56 euros in Frankfurt trading
today. The shares have added about 15 percent this year.  Chinese Recovery  Acquisitions  are unlikely to play much of a role in
Adidas’s strategy, the CEO said, though he didn’t rule out the
possibility of making one. Adidas could buy a company with sales
of a few hundred million euros, he said.  Hainer, whose company aims to expand in performance sports
gear, has no interest in buying Germany’s Jack Wolfskin. The
clothing company’s owners may put it up for sale, four people
familiar with the plan said last month.  Sales in China returned to growth this quarter after
declining 10 percent last year and 16 percent in the first half,
Hainer said. The company has been able to raise prices in the
world’s most populous country after discount sales of inventory
dating back to the Beijing Olympics in 2008 ended.  That growth “will continue in the fourth quarter and
2011,” Hainer said. “My confidence is very high.”  New Products  Adidas has introduced new products and is working more
closely with franchise partners in China to speed the
turnaround, Hainer said. The German company has regained the No.
2 position behind Nike Inc. in China’s online sporting-goods
market, after falling behind Li Ning Co. late last year, he
said.  Russia, the fastest-growing European market for Adidas,
will post growth of at least 10 percent this year and next in
local currency, the CEO said. Russia, where Hainer says Adidas
has 65 percent to 70 percent market share among international
brands, is overtaking markets including the U.K., France and
Germany as an increase in the value of the ruble this year
supports sales in euro terms.  Adidas will introduce a new sporting shoe technology in the
second half of 2011 as it seeks to further its expansion in
running equipment, Hainer said. The product has been shown to
retailers and has received “extremely good feedback,” he said,
declining to provide further details.  ZigTech  The company will capitalize on a trend for ultralight shoes
and apparel, Hainer said. Adidas introduced an F50 shoe in June
that weighs about 160 grams and is the lightest soccer boot on
the market, according to the company. Adidas intends to sell
more than four million pairs this year at about 200 euros each.  EasyTone trainers have helped Hainer revive revenue at
Reebok, which the company bought in 2006. EasyTone shoe sales
are forecast to rise to 10 million pairs this year from 300,000
last year, he said. The shoes retail for about $100.  ZigTech shoes, geared toward runners, are aimed at easing
strain on leg muscles. The company wants to play a bigger role
in running, a market bigger than soccer, according to Hainer,
and will benefit as people become more active.  “People are now more willing to spend more and more money
on functional clothes,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf, Germany, at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 