-- Adobe Sales Forecast Misses Estimates; Shares Plunge
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-09-22T00:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/adobe-forecast-misses-analysts-estimates-as-budgets-stay-tight.html
Adobe Systems Inc. , the top maker
of graphic-design software, forecast sales that trailed
estimates, citing slower demand from back-to-school shoppers and
Japanese buyers. The shares tumbled as much as 16 percent.  Fourth-quarter revenue will be $950 million to $1 billion,
San Jose, California-based Adobe said today in a statement.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg on average had  projected  sales of
$1.03 billion for the period, which lasts through November.  Adobe’s new Creative Suite 5 software, released in April,
isn’t driving as much growth as analysts had predicted. Cash-
strapped schools aren’t paying for as many copies of the
product, which includes Photoshop and Illustrator, the company
said. The sluggish economy in Japan, typically Adobe’s biggest
Asian market, also is hampering sales.  “They’re anticipating more subdued growth in the November
quarter,” said  Jeff Gaggin , an analyst at Avian Securities Inc.
in New York. He recommends  buying  Adobe shares, which he doesn’t
own himself. There may not be pent-up demand for the new
Creative Suite: Customers who were waiting to upgrade have
probably already done so, Gaggin said.  Adobe slid as much as $5.34 to $27.60 in late  trading 
following the report. Earlier, the  shares  fell 17 cents to close
at $32.94 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  ‘Cautious Approach’  Profit in the current quarter will be 48 cents to 54 cents
a share, compared with  analysts ’ average estimate of 53 cents.  “We’re taking a cautious approach to the guidance,” Chief
Executive Officer  Shantanu Narayen  said on a conference call
with analysts today. “The U.S. back-to-school environment this
time was a little weaker overall.”  Education sales account for more than 10 percent of Adobe’s
revenue, and sales to students and schools have been lower than
expected “across the board,” Chief Financial Officer  Mark Garrett  said in an interview.  The Japanese economy, meanwhile, “hasn’t really come out of
the recession yet,” he said. The company declined to specify how
much revenue came from the country. Sales in Asia contributed a
fifth of revenue in the third quarter, Adobe said.  Sales of Creative Suite 5 may have peaked last quarter,
said  Yun Kim , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in New York.  ‘Not Sustainable’  “CS5’s strong performance in its corporate market is a one-
quarter event -- something that is not sustainable,” said Kim,
who has a “neutral”  rating  on Adobe shares and doesn’t own
any.  Net income  in the third quarter, which ended Sept. 3, rose
to $230.1 million, or 44 cents a share, from $136 million, or 26
cents, a year earlier. Sales increased to $990.3 million.
Analysts had projected profit excluding costs of 49 cents on
revenue of $985.4 million.  Operating expenses climbed 27 percent in the period, led by
a 31 percent increase in sales and marketing costs.  The division that includes Creative Suite makes up  more
than half  of total sales. The previous version, Creative Suite
4, came out in September 2008, just as the financial crisis
deepened and corporations reined in technology spending.  Sales of CS5 are still about 15 percent higher than version
4 at a comparable point in its life, Garrett said.  “It’s nothing like what we saw with CS4,” he said. Sales are
“much better than that.”  Apple Decision  In mobile-computing software, Adobe may benefit from a
Sept. 9 decision by Apple Inc. to ease restrictions on creating
applications for its iPhone and iPad devices. Apple had
prevented developers from using Adobe’s Flash video software.
Adobe shares had gained 12 percent since Sept. 8, the day before
Apple’s announcement.  Still, the change doesn’t let Flash apps run inside the
browser on Apple devices, and that’s a larger concern, Gaggin
said. Apple, which dominates the market for mobile apps, is
promoting an Internet standard called HTML5 instead.  “The Apple announcement is a step in the right direction,
but it doesn’t solve the bigger problem for Flash,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  