-- Aerolineas Argentinas Said to Join SkyTeam Alliance
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r ,   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-09-21T21:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/aerolineas-argentinas-said-to-join-delta-air-france-s-skyteam-next-month.html
Aerolineas Argentinas SA, South
America’s fifth-biggest airline, will join the SkyTeam alliance
led by  Delta Air Lines Inc.  and Air France-KLM Group, according
to two people with knowledge of the agreement.  The state-owned company will sign an accord to join SkyTeam
as soon as the final week of October, said one of the people,
who declined to be identified because the decision hasn’t been
made public.  Aerolineas President Mariano Recalde said discussions had
been held, though he wouldn’t say whether an agreement was
reached. “I can only confirm” there have been talks with
SkyTeam, he said in a phone interview from Buenos Aires, where
the airline is based.  Adding Aerolineas would help SkyTeam vie with the Oneworld
group, whose Lan Airlines SA of Chile is buying Brazil’s Tam SA,
a member of the Star alliance. Before Tam, the Star alliance
hadn’t had a local member since Brazil’s bankruptcy-threatened
Varig was expelled in 2007.  Lan and Tam, which would be called Latam Airlines Group
upon completion of their merger, haven’t decided to join
Oneworld, which is led by AMR Corp.’s American Airlines, or
Star, which is anchored by UAL Corp.’s United Airlines. The new
carrier would dominate long-haul travel in South America.  Delta declined to comment on any moves related to possible
alliance changes, spokesman  Trebor Banstetter  said. SkyTeam’s
Amsterdam-based spokeswoman,  Marisca Kensenhuis , said the group
doesn’t discuss new members until an agreement is signed.  Government Takeover  The Argentine government took over Aerolineas Argentinas
from Spain’s Grupo Marsans in 2009. The company and sister
carrier Austral operate domestic routes and international
flights to cities including Sao Paulo, Miami, Paris, Madrid and
Sydney.  Aerolineas Argentinas operates a mix of Airbus SAS and
Boeing Co. jetliners, while the Austral unit has begun taking
delivery of the first of 20 Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA
E-190 planes to replace Boeing MD-80s.  The company adopted a new livery this year and switched
more flights to Aeroparque Jorge Newberry, an airport that’s
closest to the center of Buenos Aires.  Tam is South America’s biggest carrier by passengers,
according to International Air Transport Association data,
moving 29 million in 2009. Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA,
also based in Brazil, ranks second with almost 28 million
passengers, Lan is third with 15 million and Colombia’s Aerovias
del Continente Americano SA, or Avianca, is fourth at 9 million.  British Airways Plc , a leading carrier in Oneworld, said
today that it’s starting a daily direct service to Buenos Aires
from London in March, shortening travel times on a route that
now includes a change of planes in Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors on this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  