-- Ahmadinejad Tells UN World's Problems Caused by Capitalism, Corporations
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-09-21T15:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/ahmadinejad-tells-un-world-s-problems-caused-by-capitalism-corporations.html
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  told the  United Nations  that “demanding liberal
capitalism and transnational corporations” have caused the
world’s most serious problems.  “The undemocratic and unjust governance structures of the
decision-making bodies in international economic and political
fields are the reasons behind most of the plights today humanity
is confronting,” Ahmadinejad said in an address to a summit
meeting on the UN poverty and hunger reduction targets known as
the Millennium Development Goals.  The past decade, he said, was “unfortunately marred with
war, occupation, carnage, wandering and intimidation.”  Ahmadinejad, who didn’t specify what nations or governing
bodies he was referring to, said the “discriminatory order of
capitalism and the hegemonic approach are facing defeat and
getting closer to the end.”  Iran, the Middle East’s second-largest oil producer, is
dealing with trade and financial sanctions imposed by the UN and
member governments including the U.S. because of its nuclear
program.  The Iranian leader called for a new order based on the
“divine mindset,” suggested that the next 10 years be called
the “Decade for the Joint Global Governance,” and urged all
leaders at the UN to plan for its realization.  A round of applause from diplomats in the hall followed
Ahmadinejad’s speech.  Meetings, News Conference  Ahmadinejad is scheduled to meet today with other leaders
at the UN, according to Bak Sahraei, spokesman for Iran’s
mission to the UN, and address the UN General Assembly and hold
a news conference on Sept. 23.  Though Ahmadinejad said Sept. 19 on ABC’s “This Week”
program that he was “ready to discuss” his nation’s nuclear
program with countries including the U.S., Sahraei said he
couldn’t say which leaders the Iranian leader would be meeting.  The U.S. and its European allies suspect that Iran is
developing a nuclear weapons capability, and UN inspectors say
Iran hasn’t given them enough access and information to prove
the nuclear effort is solely for civilian energy purposes.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and her
counterparts from Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia are
scheduled to meet tomorrow at the UN to assess the impact of
sanctions on Iran that are intended to prevent its development
of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  