-- AIA IPO of Up To $15 Billion Said to Get Preliminary Approval
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n ,   B e i   H u   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-09-22T07:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/aia-said-to-get-hong-kong-bourse-s-preliminary-approval-for-ipo.html
AIA Group Ltd., the main Asia unit
of bailed-out insurer  American International Group Inc ., got
preliminary approval from the Hong Kong bourse for its initial
public offering, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The in-principle approval from the listing committee paves
the way for Hong Kong-based AIA to start gauging investor demand
on Sept. 27 for a sale of about $15 billion in shares, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the information is
confidential. AIG may sell more than half its stake in the IPO,
one of the people said.  AIA plans to start a roadshow for the offering on Oct. 6
and trading on the exchange may begin Oct. 29, the people said.
An IPO of the planned size would be among the largest on record
in Hong Kong, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is selling
assets to help repay a $182.3 billion government bailout. He
revived plans for the public offering following the June
collapse of a proposed $35.5 billion sale of the unit to
Prudential Plc after the U.K.-based insurer’s investors balked
at the price.  “This IPO will create a well-capitalized, market-leading
Asian insurer with a huge presence in the region and with fewer
restrictions than competitors with head offices in Europe or
North America,” said Alan Mackay, Hong Kong-based group deputy
chief executive officer of insurance-focused recruitment firm
 Darwin Rhodes .  Fed Repayments  Benmosche, 66, has said AIG would be “well within striking
distance” of repaying the Federal Reserve after divesting AIA
and another non-U.S. unit, American Life Insurance Co. The
insurer will then turn to reducing its Treasury Department debt
to fully regain independence, Benmosche has said.  Mark Herr , a
spokesman for AIG, declined to comment.  The AIA offering would be among the world’s largest share
sales,  Nicholas Walsh , head of AIG’s non-U.S. property-casualty
unit, said at a conference this month. Visa Inc. raised $19.7
billion in March 2008, while Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.
raised about $22.1 billion this year, including $12 billion from
its Hong Kong share sale.  The IPO may help put AIA back on track for growth after
disruption resulting from AIG’s woes.  “Post-listing, the company can move forward with its
business endeavors,” said  Andy Mantel , Hong Kong-based managing
director of hedge fund Pacific Sun Investment Management Ltd.  Shanghai Roots  AIA, founded in Shanghai in 1931, was the first foreign-
owned insurer to get a license in China, according to the
company’s website. Former AIG CEO Maurice “Hank” Greenberg has
called the non-U.S. life insurance divisions “crown jewels”
that can’t be replicated by rivals.  Benmosche hired  Mark Tucker  in July as chief of AIA. Tucker
built up the Asia operations of Prudential over 15 years before
becoming CEO of the London-based insurer in 2005. Benmosche had
clashed with AIA’s former head,  Mark Wilson , over how to divest
the business.  “The recent appointment of Mr. Tucker to lead AIA has led
to a significant shift in sentiment regarding the ability of AIG
to pull this off,” Mackay said of AIA’s IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at   bhu5@bloomberg.net ;
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  