-- AIG Considers Options After China Strategic Scraps Purchase of Taiwan Unit
-- Janet Ong
-- 2010-09-21T02:46:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/aig-mulls-nan-shan-options-after-china-strategic-scraps-deal.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc. 
is considering options for its Taiwan life insurance unit after
local regulators blocked its planned $2.15 billion sale.  
 China Strategic Holdings Ltd.  and  Primus Financial Holdings
Ltd.  had agreed with AIG to end a deal to buy a 97.57 percent
stake in Nan Shan Life Insurance Co. following a formal
rejection notice from Taiwan’s Ministry of Economic Affairs,
Hong Kong-listed China Strategic said in a statement to the
stock exchange last night.  
 “AIG is evaluating its options with respect to its
ownership of Nan Shan,”  Lauren Day , a spokeswoman for AIG, said
by e-mail.  
 Taiwan’s  Financial Supervisory Commission  on Aug. 31
rejected an application by a group led by Primus and China
Strategic on concern over its financial capability and long-term
commitment to operate the business.  
 The termination is a blow for AIG, which has been trying
for more than a year to complete its second-biggest disposal
since its September 2008 U.S. government bailout.  
 AIG on Sept. 1 said it will consider scaling back
operations at its Taiwan unit. The Taipei-based Economic Daily
News on Sept. 15 said AIG isn’t ruling out listing Nan Shan in
Taiwan, without saying where it got the information.  
 Chinatrust Financial Holding Co. , Taiwan’s third-largest
financial company by market value, said Aug. 11 it was still
interested in buying Nan Shan if regulators rejected the Primus
deal. Chinatrust failed in a bid for Nan Shan in October last
year.  Vanney Cho , a spokesman at Chinatrust, couldn’t be reached
immediately on his mobile phone.  
 Nan Shan, based in Taipei, was set up in July 1963 and was
bought by American International Underwriters Ltd., the property
and general insurance unit of AIG, in January 1970, according to
the company’s  website .  
 China Strategic shares fell 4.8 percent to 29.5 Hong Kong
cents as of 10:43 a.m. in Hong Kong, the lowest since Sept. 30,
2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Ong  at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        