-- Malaysia Unlikely to Allow Offshore Ringgit Trade in Near Term, Zeti Says
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2010-09-22T07:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/malaysia-unlikely-to-allow-offshore-ringgit-trade-in-near-term-zeti-says.html
Malaysia isn’t likely to let its
currency be fully traded overseas anytime soon, central bank
Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  said, even as she indicated the move
was being considered.  “We’re not going to rush to have full internationalization;
it could be in phases,” she told reporters in Kuala Lumpur late
yesterday. Offshore ringgit trading won’t be allowed in the near
term, “unless we achieve all the preconditions and
international markets stabilize and return to more normal
conditions,” the governor said.  The ringgit rose to a 13-year high after Malaysian Prime
Minister  Najib Razak  told CNBC earlier this month he’s open to
allowing offshore ringgit trading. The comments prompted former
premier  Mahathir Mohamad  to say the ringgit risks renewed
attacks by speculators if the nation lifts curbs he imposed as
leader during the Asian financial crisis.  Najib said yesterday there is no timeframe for such a move,
though the country is reviewing the matter.  “We don’t have a specific timeframe but we will look at it
in depth,” he said. “We have liberalized the ringgit for trade
related activities. For financial activities, it’s still under
study.”  Mahathir fixed the ringgit at 3.80 per dollar in September
1998 during the Asian financial crisis, blaming speculators
including  George Soros  for a 34 percent plunge in the currency.
A ban on offshore trading of the ringgit has remained in force
since, though the dollar peg was removed in 2005.  Partial Easing  Malaysia has already lifted some of its currency controls,
most recently allowing domestic companies to settle cross-border
trade transactions in ringgit and letting exporters hedge
currency risks beyond a previous 12-month threshold.  “It’s positive for sentiment if they are considering the
plan, which could lead to a faster appreciation of the ringgit,”
said  Nik M. Khairul , a treasury dealer at Asian Finance Bank Bhd.
in Kuala Lumpur. “It’s not going to happen soon though.”  The ringgit has rallied 10.9 percent against the dollar
this year and rose to a fresh 13-year high today, advancing 0.3
percent to 3.0905 per dollar as of 3:10 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It previously reached
the strongest level since October 1997 on Sept. 13, two days
after Najib indicated he may review the 12-year ban on offshore
trading.  Door Open  “We have not closed the doors to internationalizing the
ringgit,” Zeti said yesterday. “Some of these preconditions
are already in place. Our financial markets are more developed.
The capacity of our financial institutions is much greater now.
These are important preconditions, but we also need to develop
our foreign-exchange market into a vibrant foreign-exchange
market because we are a trading country.”  Malaysia doesn’t want its currency market to migrate
overseas when the ringgit is internationalized, Zeti said,
adding that the country is “very aware of the risks associated
with internationalization.”  Najib, who is also finance minister, said yesterday
authorities may tighten rules on housing loans for buyers of
more than two properties.  “There’s no intention of reducing the limit to first-time
buyers, and even second-time buyers,” he said, referring to the
loan-to-value ratio. “It’s only for those who might use it for
speculative reasons, which means the third home buyers and
fourth home buyers, there might be a limit imposed by Bank
Negara. But for genuine buyers there will be no review on the
limit.”  Malaysia’s  economy  may expand more than 6 percent this year
even as a weaker global economy moderates growth in the second
half of the year, he said.  The central bank in March forecast economic growth of as
much as 5.5 percent in 2010, from a 1.7 percent contraction last
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ranjeetha Pakiam  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  