-- Malaysia Plans Nuclear Power, Mass Rail Projects to Boost Economic Growth
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2010-09-21T06:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/malaysia-plans-nuclear-power-mass-rail-projects-to-boost-economic-growth.html
Malaysia plans to develop a nuclear
energy industry, build a mass rail network and create a shopping
district to rival Singapore’s Orchard Road as part of efforts to
boost investment and spur growth.  These are among $444 billion worth of potential private-
sector-led projects by companies including  Dialog Group Bhd.  and
IOI Corp. that may turn around an investment slump and help the
country achieve developed nation status by 2020, according to
 Idris Jala , chief executive officer of the government’s
Performance Management and Delivery Unit, or  Pemandu .  “We can do this,” Jala, who is also a minister in the
Prime Minister’s department, said in an embargoed briefing on
Sept. 15. “Look at what’s happened in South Korea, Taiwan and
Singapore. The growth in those countries is phenomenal in the
last 10 years.”  Foreign investment in Southeast Asia’s third-largest
 economy  has fallen over the past three years amid growing
competition from neighbors including India and China, tumbling
81 percent last year. The government aims to boost gross
national income from $188 billion to close to $523 billion in
2020 and raise per capita income to at least $15,000, meeting
the World Bank’s definition of a high-income nation, Jala said.  “It’s all about execution, execution and execution,” said
 Stephen Hagger , head of Malaysian equities for Credit Suisse
Group AG in Kuala Lumpur. “It’s achievable. Whether it will be
achieved is another matter.”  Past Ambitions  Malaysia’s  benchmark stock index  has risen 0.4 percent
since Sept. 17, when parts of the government’s investment plans
were released.  The country has had similarly ambitious plans to transform
its economy before. In the 1990s, then Prime Minister  Mahathir Mohamad  built highways, a new administrative capital and the
world’s tallest twin towers. He also promoted the Multimedia
Super Corridor, a special zone including parts of Kuala Lumpur
and a township called Cyberjaya to attract high-technology
investment and create Malaysia’s own Silicon Valley.  Companies  operating in the corridor  to benefit from tax
breaks and other incentives include DHL Asia Pacific Shared
Services Sdn., Shell Information Technology International Sdn.
and Dell Global Business Center Sdn.  Investment Declines  Foreign direct investment into Malaysia slumped to $1.4
billion in 2009 from $7.3 billion the previous year, according
to the United Nations 2010 World Investment Report. That’s less
than the $4.9 billion Indonesia attracted and the $16.8 billion
received by Singapore.  To help get things back on track, Prime Minister  Najib Razak , who took office in April 2009, has proposed a so-called
New Economic Model, which advocates further liberalizing the
country’s services industry and rolling back some affirmative-
action policies favoring the country’s ethnic-Malay majority and
indigenous people.  While many details of Najib’s plans have yet to be
announced, Malaysia’s key stock index has surged 15.7 percent
this year and its currency touched a 13-year high last week.  The economic transformation strategy will depend on “the
will power of the government to push this through,” Hagger said.
“It’s very popular with the people, but may not be popular with
certain politicians or civil service” members, who would
benefit from the status quo, he said.  Still, the infrastructure plans are easier to achieve, and
the mass rail and shopping belt will likely materialize, he said.  Growth Rebounds  Foreign investment rebounded this year, helping Malaysia
lure the equivalent of $1.6 billion in the first quarter,
International Trade & Industry Minister  Mustapa Mohamed  said on
July 26.  To achieve high-income nation status by the end of the
coming decade, Malaysia’s economy will need to grow by an
average 6 percent  annually  over the next five years, according
to a government report on June 10.  Gross domestic product expanded 10.1 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier and rose 8.9 percent in the second
quarter. Growth may exceed 6 percent this year, central bank
Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  said last month. In comparison,
Singapore’s economy grew at a record 17.9 percent pace in the
first half, while Indonesia expanded 6.2 percent last quarter
and Thailand grew 9.1 percent.  Representatives of 200 private- and public-sector companies
spent two months in June and July brainstorming with Jala’s
Pemandu think-tank. They identified 131 investment projects
spanning 11 key economic areas ranging from  electronics  to
agriculture.  Tourist Attractions  They also discussed initiatives to enhance the country’s
capital city, including a 141-kilometer subway, improved tourist
attractions and a 7-kilometer shopping strip with covered
walkways stretching from Berjaya Times Square to the Kuala
Lumpur City Centre.  Kuala Lumpur’s population is forecast to swell to 10
million from 6 million by 2020, Jala said.  Malaysia’s cabinet will consider a study on a mass rail
project for Kuala Lumpur by the end of this year, according to
an exhibition in the capital today. The plan could cost a total
45 billion ringgit ($15 billion), comprising 36 billion ringgit
of infrastructure and 9 billion ringgit of operating assets
including trains, the display shows.  The government is also studying the viability of a high-
speed rail system to connect greater Kuala Lumpur to Singapore
with a traveling time of two hours, according to the exhibition.  Oil and Gas  The capital’s rivers will also be cleaned up and beautified
to attract high-end property development, Jala said.  In the oil and gas industry, state-owned  Petroliam Nasional
Bhd ., or Petronas, will build a terminal so that by 2013
Peninsular Malaysia can start importing liquefied natural gas,
he said.  Malaysia will start identifying sites for the country’s
first nuclear power plant, though no decision has been made on
whether to proceed, Najib said in May.  By 2015, Malaysia aims to have regional oil storage
capacity of 10 million tons in Pengarang, Johor, with a hub
similar to those in Houston, Aberdeen and Norway’s Stavanger,
Jala said. Malaysia’s  Dialog Group  and Rotterdam-based  Royal
Vopak NV  are in talks with Johor’s state government on the
project, he said.  In the palm oil sector, local planters will expand
downstream into higher-yielding byproducts like soaps, he said.
 Sime Darby Bhd. ,  IOI ,  Kuala Lumpur Kepong Bhd.  and Felda
Holdings Bhd. will lead the investment and specialist foreign
partners will be sought, Jala said last week.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  