-- Ally Says GMAC Mortgage Mishandled Affidavits on Foreclosures
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-09-21T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/ally-financial-says-gmac-mortgage-mishandled-affidavits-on-foreclosures.html
Ally Financial Inc. , whose  GMAC
Mortgage  unit halted evictions in 23 states amid allegations of
mishandled affidavits, said its filings contained no false
claims about home loans.  The “defect” in affidavits used to support evictions was
“technical” and was discovered by the company,  Gina Proia , an
Ally spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. Employees
submitted affidavits containing information they didn’t
personally know was true and sometimes signed without a notary
present, according to the statement. Most cases will be resolved
in the next few weeks and those that can’t be fixed will
“require court intervention,” Proia said.  “The entire situation is unfortunate and regrettable and
GMAC Mortgage is diligently working to resolve the situation,”
Proia said. “There was never any intent on the part of GMAC
Mortgage to bypass court rules or procedures. Nor do these
failures reflect any disrespect for our courts or the judicial
processes.”  State officials are investigating allegations of fraudulent
foreclosures at the nation’s largest home lenders and loan
servicers. Lawyers defending mortgage borrowers have accused
GMAC and other lenders of foreclosing on homeowners without
verifying that they own the loans. In foreclosure cases,
companies commonly file affidavits to start court proceedings.  “All the banks are the same, GMAC is the only one who’s
gotten caught,” said Patricia Parker, an attorney at
Jacksonville, Florida-based law firm, Parker & DuFresne. “This
could be huge.”  No Misstatements  Aside from signing the affidavits without knowledge or a
notary, “the sum and substance of the affidavits and all
content were factually accurate,” Proia wrote in the e-mail.
“Our internal review has revealed no evidence of any factual
misstatements or inaccuracies concerning the details typically
contained in these affidavits such as the loan balance, its
delinquency, and the accuracy of the note and mortgage on the
underlying transaction.”  Affidavits are statements written and sworn to in the
presence of someone authorized to administer an oath, such as a
notary public.  GMAC told brokers and agents to halt evictions tied to
foreclosures on homeowners in 23 states including Florida,
Connecticut and New York and said it may have to take
“corrective action” on other foreclosures, according to a
Sept. 17 memo. Foreclosures won’t be suspended and will continue
with “no interruption,” Proia said in a statement yesterday.  10,000 a Week  In December 2009, a GMAC Mortgage employee said in a
deposition that his team of 13 people signed “a round number of
10,000” affidavits and other foreclosure documents a month
without verifying their accuracy. The employee said he relied on
law firms sending him the affidavits to verify their accuracy
instead of checking them with GMAC’s records as required. The
affidavits were then used to complete the process of
repossessing homes and evicting residents.  Florida Attorney General  William McCollum  is investigating
three  law firms  that represent loan servicers in foreclosures,
and are alleged to have submitted fraudulent documents to the
courts, according to an Aug. 10 statement. The firms handled
about 80 percent of foreclosure cases in the state, according to
a letter from Representative  Alan Grayson , a Florida Democrat.  “It appears that the actions we have taken and the
attention we’ve paid to this issue could have had some impact on
the actions that GMAC took today, but we can’t take full
credit,”  Ryan Wiggins , a spokeswoman for McCollum, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  ‘Committed Fraud’  In August, Florida Circuit Court Judge Jean Johnson blocked
a Jacksonville foreclosure brought by Washington Mutual Bank
N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, which had purchased the failed
bank’s assets, and Shapiro & Fishman, the companies’ law firm.
Documents eventually showed that the mortgage on the house was
in fact owned by Washington-based Fannie Mae.  WaMu and the law firm “committed fraud on this court,”
Johnson wrote. JPMorgan had presented a document prepared by
Shapiro showing the mortgage was sold directly to WaMu in April
2008.  Tom Ice , founding partner of Ice Legal PA in Royal Palm
Beach, Florida, said a fourth law firm representing GMAC in
recent weeks has begun withdrawing affidavits signed by the GMAC
employee.  “The banks are sitting up and taking notice that they
can’t use falsified documents in the courtroom,” Ice said.
“There may be others doing the same thing. They’re going to
come back and say, ‘We’d better withdraw these,’” Ice said in a
telephone interview.  Alejandra Arroyave, a lawyer with Lapin & Leichtling, a law
firm in Coral Gables, Florida, who represented the employee at
his December 2009 deposition, didn’t respond to a request for
comment. A phone call to the employee wasn’t returned.  Mortgage Market  GMAC ranked fourth among U.S. home-loan originators in the
first six months of this year, with $26 billion of mortgages,
according to Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry newsletter. 
Wells Fargo & Co.  ranked first, with $160 billion, and Citigroup
Inc. was fifth, with $25 billion.  Iowa Assistant Attorney General Patrick Madigan said the
implications of Ally’s internal review and the GMAC employee’s
deposition could be “enormous.”  “It would call into question whether other servicers have
engaged in similar practices,” Madigan said in a telephone
interview. “It would be a major disruption to the foreclosure
pipeline.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at   amccabe@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 