-- Altinbas Says It Has Talked With `Many' Companies, Including Eni, on Alpet
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2010-09-21T13:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/altinbas-may-sell-stake-in-fuel-retailer-gold-unit-update1-.html
Altinbas Holding is looking for
European companies to buy a stake in its Turkish fuel retailing
unit to help it expand abroad, Chairman Imam Altinbas said.  The company held talks with “many” European companies,
including  Eni SpA  and previously  Lukoil OAO , on buying a stake
in Alpet AS, he said today in an interview in Istanbul. “We
would like to have a group as partner that will expand our fuel
business in Europe,” he said, declining to comment on whether
talks with Eni, Italy’s largest oil company, are continuing.  Altinbas may also hold an initial public offering in its
Altinbas Kuyumculuk AS jewelry unit in 2011, the chairman said,
speaking at presentation of new jewelry in Istanbul.  Altinbas  may decide on an IPO should a stake sale in the
fuel unit not succeed, he said. The retailer has 2.7 percent
share of the Turkish market, trailing Petrol Ofisi AS, a unit
of OMV AG and Dogan Sirketler Grubu Holdings AS with a 32.8
percent share, as well as a unit of Royal Dutch Shell Plc, which
has 18 percent, according to the  country’s  energy regulator.  Other oil companies selling to Turkish consumers include
Lukoil, which bought Akpet Petrolculuk AS for about $500 million
in 2008, BP Plc and Total SA. Petrol sales in Turkey, a nation
of about 80 million people, rose 19 percent to 35 billion lira
($23.5 billion) in the first half of this year, according to
 data  from the Turkish Petroleum Industry Association.  “What potential buyers want is control in the company, and
if possible the entire stake,” Altinbas said. “But we like our
company and we are open to European companies that will do
business with us here and abroad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 