-- American Struggles With Costs, Unions as Mergers Boost Rivals
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/american-struggles-with-costs-unions-as-mergers-erase-top-airline-status.html
American Airlines , which stood by
as its biggest U.S. rivals completed two mergers, is struggling
to return to profit as it confronts the highest costs among its
peers, worst margins and the threat of a strike.  American parent  AMR Corp.  seeks to end two years of losses
by expanding alliances, buying more fuel-efficient planes and
refocusing operations on U.S. hub airports. “There are a number
of opportunities that we are on the verge of tapping,”
Treasurer  Beverly Goulet  said in an interview.  So far, American has been unable to stem a slide toward
third place in the U.S. by  traffic  from No. 1 in the world as
competitors combine, or to win over unions balking at the new
labor contracts the airline says are pivotal in curbing
expenses. The stock’s 14 percent drop  this year  is the only
decline among the six biggest U.S. carriers.  “They have performed so poorly, people have written them
off,” said  Don Hodges , chairman of Dallas-based Hodges Capital
Management. “They just don’t consider American a factor when
they think about investing in airlines.”  Hodges, whose company held 25,650 AMR shares as of June,
includes AMR in his  Pure Contrarian Fund  of “good companies
going through a temporary problem area.” While he recommends
the stock to well-off clients who can afford to take  risks , he
has cut his stake from 2 million shares in 2008.  Talks Today  American’s scheduled contract talks today with its pilots’
union come four years and a day since bargaining began. Flight
attendants, airport ground workers and mechanics began talks as
much as three years ago. Among almost 50,000 workers represented
by unions at Fort Worth, Texas-based American, only a group of
90 technical specialists has approved a new contract.  “I can’t get comfortable recommending the purchase of
American stock as long as that labor situation is an issue,”
said  James M. Higgins , an analyst at New York-based Soleil
Securities Corp. who advises  holding  AMR.  American won $1.6 billion in annual union concessions in
2003 to avert bankruptcy, instead of shedding costs in Chapter
11 as UAL Corp.’s United Airlines,  Delta Air Lines Inc. ,  US
Airways Group Inc.  and Northwest Airlines Corp. did last decade.
Chief Executive Officer  Gerard Arpey  took the job as those
agreements were reached.  Airline Consolidation  As recently as 2008, American was the world’s largest
carrier. Delta bought Northwest that year, and  Continental
Airlines Inc.  and  United  agreed in May to a tie-up they expect
to close by Oct. 1. The combination will leapfrog Delta as the
global leader by traffic.  To counter a possible loss of corporate accounts to rivals
with broader networks, Arpey, 52, is working to deepen pricing
alliances with carriers outside the U.S. and add flights at hubs
in five domestic markets used by business travelers. By early
2011, 98 percent of American’s capacity will touch those hubs,
up from 88 percent “several years ago,” the carrier said.  In February, American persuaded  Japan Airlines Corp.  to
stay in the Oneworld alliance, preserving the Asian portion of
its global network by fending off Delta’s efforts to lure JAL
into the SkyTeam group of carriers.  “Where do premium customers and the rest of the customers
want to fly?” said  Kenji Hashimoto,  American vice president for
strategic alliances. “Where American and our partners fly, it
lines up really nicely to that list.”  Revenue, Savings  By the end of 2012, American expects about $500 million in
annual revenue and savings from its recently approved joint
venture with  British Airways Plc  and Spain’s  Iberia Lineas
Aereas de Espana SA , a pending Japan Airlines venture and the
“cornerstone strategy” for U.S. hubs. New York, Los Angeles,
Chicago and Dallas-Fort Worth are the four largest  metro areas ,
and Miami is a gateway to the Caribbean and Latin America.  Cash  and short-term investments at the end of June totaled
$5.5 billion, and AMR has about $5 billion in  debt  due in 2011
and 2012, according to Goulet, the treasurer.  “We have a very good plan going forward,” Goulet said.
“We can do long-term planning and make changes in our network
and let it bear fruit over time, without having to worry about
feeding ourselves day to day.”  Investors haven’t been as optimistic. Since May 31, 2007,
when the last of AMR’s competitors left court protection, the
shares have tumbled 77 percent, the most among the 12 carriers
in the  Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index . AMR rose 7 cents yesterday
to $6.64 in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .  The company also may be the only one of its peers with a
2010 loss, with 14  analysts  projecting an average of 97 cents a
share. Analysts estimate the five other major U.S. airlines will
post profits, according to Bloomberg surveys.  Operating Costs  Counting fuel, labor and other expenses, American’s cost to
fly each seat a mile in 2010’s first half was 12.76 cents, the
most among the 6 biggest U.S. carriers and topping Delta’s 12.31
cents, based on data compiled by Bloomberg. Its pretax margin
was -4.3 percent, the only negative among its peers.  “They’re playing the hand they were dealt by avoiding
bankruptcy,” said  Hunter Keay , a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst
in Baltimore. “It’s unfortunately costing them dearly.”  Keay recommends buying AMR because “the downside is pretty
limited.”  Part of the financial drag on American comes from its
Boeing Co. MD-80s, which make up the largest part of the
airline’s 619-plane fleet.  Jet Fleet  While they’re being replaced by  Boeing  737s that are about
35 percent more fuel-efficient for each seat flown a mile, the
MD-80s still account for about 40 percent of American’s mainline
jets, and won’t all be retired until about 2016 at an average
replacement rate of 3 to 4 planes a month. American’s main jet
fleet averages about 15 years of age, tied with Delta for the
oldest among the six biggest U.S. airlines.  On labor costs alone, American says its disadvantage
against rivals is $600 million, a figure disputed by unions.  “It’s significant,” said  Jeff Brundage,  American’s senior
vice president for human resources. “It’s a big brick in our
backpack to being competitive in this industry.”  American has said boosting productivity would allow it to
increase wages while keeping its current cost structure. Studies
show the airline at or near the bottom of the industry in
productivity, said  Jerry Glass , president of F&H Solutions Group
in Washington and a former US Airways labor executive.  “It’s critically important that the labor groups
understand that work rules are what is preventing American from
reporting profits in 2010, to a large degree,” Stifel
Nicolaus’s Keay said.  Union Demands  American’s unions insist that at least some of the 2003
concessions be restored. The  Transport Workers Union  withdrew a
tentative contract for 10,600 baggage handlers and ramp workers
in June, saying it couldn’t recommend ratification. Mechanics
and stock clerks rejected a proposed three-year contract last
month and gave TWU leaders approval to call a walkout among
their 12,700 members.  Pilots are working at 1993 hourly rates, leaving them with
“massive anger and frustration” over a lack of progress in
talks that began in 2006, said  David Bates , president of the
 Allied Pilots Association , which represents 9,600 active pilots
at American.  “What we are looking for is not something that’s going to
hurt the company,” said Laura Glading, president of the
 Association of Professional Flight Attendants , which has 16,550
active-duty members at American. “You can’t come to labor and
keep taking and taking and taking.”  Glading was prepared to press a U.S. mediator in meetings
this week to declare a stalemate in bargaining and recommend
that the  National Mediation Board  trigger a countdown toward the
first strike at a major carrier since 2005. The mediator
yesterday canceled the sessions with the attendants.  The union tensions cast a shadow over American’s recovery
strategy, Soleil Securities’ Higgins said.  “The changes they are making in their flying are going to
help,” he said. “They are doing a lot of sensible things. For
me, they’re all completely dwarfed by labor and the question
about what’s going to happen there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  