-- MAN SE, Daimler Target Earnings Growth on Truck Sales in Brazil, Russia
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-09-21T16:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/man-se-to-raise-conservative-2010-forecasts-as-brazil-propels-sales-gain.html
MAN SE , Europe’s third-biggest
truckmaker, said it will raise full-year forecasts next month
and  Daimler AG , the world’s biggest, said profit will recover
because of growth in emerging markets such as Brazil and Russia.  MAN will increase its  return-on-sales  target when third-
quarter earnings figures are released in October, Chief
Financial Officer  Frank Lutz  said at a press briefing in
Hanover, Germany. Daimler said its truck division will probably
achieve an earnings before interest and taxes target of about
1 billion euros ($1.3 billion), rebounding from a loss in 2009.  The Daimler Trucks unit’s eight-month deliveries rose 33
percent, jumping 68 percent in Latin America and 76 percent in
Indonesia while eastern European sales more than doubled “from
a very low level,” it said.  MAN ’s forecasts now seem “rather
conservative,” as orders have exceeded sales every month in
2010, and “the curve is pointing clearly upwards, both in
Europe and abroad,” Lutz said at the Hanover Trucks Show.  “We’re experiencing an upswing” in the commercial-vehicle
market,  Andreas Renschler , head of Daimler Trucks, said during a
separate press conference today at the trade show.  MAN  fell  0.3 percent to 77.76 euros at the 5:30 p.m. close
of trading in Frankfurt. Daimler  gained  0.3 percent to 45.64
euros.  Brazil GDP  Brazil’s gross domestic product may expand by more than
7 percent this year, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said on
Sept. 3. Growth in  China  may average 8 percent a year until
2020, according to estimates by  Qing Wan , an economist at Morgan
Stanley. That compares with European Central Bank forecasts that
the euro region’s economy will expand 1.4 percent to 1.8 percent
in 2010.  Lutz and Renschler said their companies will provide more
specific operating-profit forecast figures with third-quarter
results. Munich-based MAN said in July that it was  targeting 
revenue growth of more than 10 percent and a return on sales,
or operating profit as a proportion of revenue, matching the
6 percent of the first half.  Revenue at MAN may total about 15 billion euros, Lutz said,
up from 12 billion euros last year. The current forecast for
return on sales is at least 6 percent, he said.  ‘Clear Improvement’  “We expect a clear improvement in profitability, and that
should also continue into 2011,” Lutz said today.  The truckmaker has seen “no signs” that  Volkswagen AG ,
its biggest shareholder, plans to raise the stake, Lutz said.
Europe’s biggest carmaker, which  owns  29.9 percent of MAN and
71 percent of the voting rights in Sweden’s  Scania AB , said
in April that cooperation between the commercial-vehicle
manufacturers will probably increase “step by step.”  Daimler, which is also the world’s second-largest luxury-
auto maker, is including light commercial vehicles in a
cooperation project it set up in April with French car
manufacturer Renault SA, Renschler said. The companies and
Renault’s Japanese partner, Nissan Motor Co., have said they
will develop conventional engines and electric-powering systems
for small cars.  Renschler predicted yesterday that  industrywide  deliveries
of heavy vehicles will grow by more than 50 percent by 2015
because of emerging markets. Daimler said today that its eight-
month truck sales in Brazil, Russia, India and China rose 64
percent. Those countries, and the so-called Next 11 emerging
markets, accounted for 40 percent of Daimler’s deliveries in the
period compared with 30 percent in all of 2009.  The division’s U.S. unit will be profitable this year, even
as the market fails to match the German company’s growth
predictions, Renschler said.  MAN’s deliveries will rise to a record 115,000 to 120,000
trucks this year, Chief Executive Officer  Georg Pachta-Reyhofen 
said today. That compares with 40,535 vehicles  sold  last year,
when deliveries dropped 58 percent. Sales in Brazil may jump by
50 percent to 60,000 trucks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Hanover, Germany, via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 