-- Anadarko Unit Fined $22.9 Million for Royalty Claims
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2010-09-21T20:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/anadarko-unit-fined-22-9-million-for-royalty-claims-update2-.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. ’s Kerr-
McGee unit was ordered by a federal judge to pay $22.9 million
in penalties for false royalty claims made to the U.S.
government between 1999 and 2003.  The fine, triple the $7.56 million set by a jury in 2007,
includes a $5.73 million award to the auditor who uncovered the
fraud as part of a federal whistle-blower program, according to
court documents.  Bobby Maxwell, a former auditor with the U.S. Minerals
Management Service, sued the company in 2004 claiming it sold
oil from the Gulf of Mexico to Texon LP at low rates in exchange
for absorbing Kerr-McGee marketing costs. This reduced royalties
paid to the government, according to the complaint. Maxwell, who
worked at the agency for 22 years, was fired as part of a
reorganization a week after his suit was unsealed.  “The scheme involved dozens of leases and continued over
an extended period of time,” U.S. District Judge  Marcia Krieger 
wrote in a Sept. 16 ruling. Tripling the size of the award is
“intended to offset the costs of detection” as well as cover
Maxwell’s award and compensate for interest, she wrote.  Anadarko, based in The Woodlands, Texas, bought Kerr-McGee
in 2006. Anadarko  rose  38 cents to $55.78 at 4:01 p.m. in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  Challenging Royalties  Kerr-McGee won a separate federal lawsuit in 2009 that
challenged royalty payments for deep-water leases. The Supreme
Court in October rejected the Obama administration’s appeal that
the decision would prevent the government from collecting an
estimated $20 billion from oil and gas producers.  Gregory E. Goldberg, an attorney for Kerr-McGee with
Holland & Hart LLP in Denver, said in an e-mail today that the
company is evaluating its options in response to the Sept. 16
ruling in the Maxwell case.  “The company believes it has paid all royalties it owes
the government; the government itself disagreed with Maxwell’s
allegations and chose not to seek any additional monies from the
company,” Goldberg said.  Kendra Barkoff , a spokeswoman for the U.S. Interior
Department, declined to comment on the case.  The Minerals Management Service, part of the Interior
Department that oversaw offshore drilling, was renamed the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement
after an April 20 explosion aboard a rig in the Gulf of Mexico
started the biggest offshore oil spill in U.S. history.  Richard C. LaFond, an attorney in Denver for Maxwell, said
he was disappointed the court found “there was not significant
evidence of fraud.”  “I think it’s apparent that the oil industry was exerting
undue influence over the decisions of MMS, especially during the
time period of this lawsuit,” LaFond said.  The case is Maxwell v. Kerr-McGee, 04-1224, U.S. District
Court, District of Colorado (Denver).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 