-- Cowen Still Faces Anglo Irish Shadow After Successful Bond Sale
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-09-22T11:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/anglo-irish-bank-bailout-clouds-cowen-s-future-after-successful-bond-sale.html
Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  still
needs to convince investors that bailing out Irish banks won’t
sink the country’s finances after yesterday’s bond sale eased
immediate concerns about the need for a bailout.  Traders are demanding  Ireland  pay close to the highest
yields on 10-year debt since 1997 as the government calculates
how much money it will have to inject into Anglo Irish Bank
Corp., which it nationalized last year. While the state has
already poured 22 billion euros ($29 billion) into the bank,
Standard & Poor’s estimates the final bill may be 35 billion
euros, equivalent to 20 percent of gross domestic product.  Fund managers’ concerns about Ireland are resurfacing as
the worst recession in the country’s modern history strangles
tax income and the price of rescuing Anglo Irish climbs. With
the central bank saying its cost estimate is “at an advanced
stage of readiness,” Cowen, 50, may have to follow up
yesterday’s successful 1.5 billion-euro bond sale with faster
budget cuts even in the face of sinking opinion poll ratings.  “As long as they put clear blue water between themselves
and the liabilities of the banking system they will be able to
handle their existing and foreseeable sovereign exposure,”
 Willem Buiter , chief economist at Citigroup Inc., said in an
interview in Dublin. “It will be extremely painful for the
Irish population, which will pay higher tax and have lower
spending benefits but it is certainly doable. This is not
Greece.”  Rescue Bill  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan , 51, said the Anglo Irish
cost estimate would be published this month. A spokesman
declined to give further details on timing.  In an another test, the government will tomorrow sell
between 300 million euros and 500 million euros in a sale of
Treasury Bills at 10 a.m., an hour before the release of second-
quarter economic growth figures. The economy grew 2.7 percent in
the first quarter, expanding for the first time since 2007.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold 10-year Irish
bonds over German counterparts today widened 11 basis points to
394 basis points. That’s close to the record 404 basis points
touched on Sept. 20.  Ireland and  Portugal  have been punished in the past month
as concerns about a renewed U.S. recession prompted some
investors to flee assets deemed as risky in favor of havens such
as German bunds. Portugal’s borrowing costs today increased at
an auction of 450 million euros of bonds due in 2014 and 300
million euros of bonds due in 2020.  Bond Yields  The yield on Ireland’s 10-year bond  has jumped 114 basis
points since Aug. 10, when the European Commission allowed the
government to pump extra funds into Anglo Irish. The bank, whose
market value exceeded 10 billion euros in 2006, bankrolled many
of the country’s property developers during Ireland’s decade-
long real-estate boom using cash borrowed on international
markets.  The slide in Irish bonds worsened after Barclays Plc said
Sept. 16 that the cost of rescuing banks could force Ireland to
follow Greece and seek external help. Lenihan has denied that a
bailout will be necessary.  “Dark clouds are gathering over the Atlantic right now,
and they could hit Irish banks first,” Italian Finance Minister
 Giulio Tremonti  said in an interview with weekly magazine  Oggi .
A spokeswoman confirmed the remarks. “The weather is ugly up
there, and when it’s ugly in one region, it can get ugly in
others.”  Default View  Thirty-seven percent of those surveyed say Ireland is
likely to default, more than twice as much as three months ago,
according to a quarterly Bloomberg poll of 1,408 investors,
traders and analysts.  Lenihan decided on Sept. 8 to split up Anglo Irish Bank and
effectively wind it down over time. He also asked the central
bank to put a final figure on the cost of Anglo Irish.  “Clarity” on the bank bailout and budget will help Irish
spreads narrow over coming months,  Oliver Whelan , head of
funding at the National Treasury Management Agency, said
yesterday on a call with reporters. “Markets like certainty and
stability.”  Once the banks are shored up, Cowen will move to narrow the
budget deficit, which at 14 percent of GDP was the highest in
the euro region last year. Support for Cowen’s governing Fianna
Fail party was at 24 percent in a Sunday Business Post opinion
poll in June, almost half the level in the 2007 election. The
opposition Fine Gael and Labour parties had support of 33
percent and 27 percent, respectively.  Budget Cuts  Lenihan, who defended Cowen yesterday after some lawmakers
criticized his leadership style, said on Sept. 13 there’s
“scope” for more than 3 billion euros of cuts in the country’s
budget. Central bank governor  Patrick Honohan  said on Sept. 20
the government needs to cut its deficit at a faster pace.
Lenihan, who currently plans to hold the budget in December,
aims to narrow the shortfall to 3 percent of GDP by 2013.  “The bond markets dictate events,” said  Dermot O’Leary ,
chief economist at Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin. “And what
the bond market is telling us is we need to run a bit faster,
particularly on Anglo Irish. We need a convincing story and we
need to sell it to the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  