-- Aquino Says 10 Officials May Be Blamed for Hong Kong Hostage Bus Incident
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   A l c u a z   J r .   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2010-09-21T08:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/aquino-says-officials-journalists-may-be-to-blame-for-deaths-in-bus-siege.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
said 10 officials, two journalists and three broadcast networks
may be held accountable for the outcome of last month’s Manila
bus siege, in which eight members of a Hong Kong tour group died.  Aquino’s statement yesterday was followed by the release of
a report highlighting eight “critical incidents” in the siege.
These included Manila Mayor  Alfredo Lim ’s failure to activate a
crisis management committee, his ordering the arrest of the
hijacker’s brother and leaving the scene with the police chief
to eat at a “crucial time,” creating a “vacuum in command.”  Aquino yesterday said he hoped the report would “restore
confidence that we know how to run our country and that we have
taken appropriate actions to prevent such tragedies from
happening again.” Aquino on Sept. 3 said he accepted “full
responsibility” for the incident.  “The image of an inefficient, ineffective, bumbling
government bureaucracy, that’s what the report should address,”
said  Earl Parreno , an analyst at Institute for Political and
Economic Reforms in Manila. “The report will not remedy that
image,” he said. What’s needed is “not punishing people who
made mistakes, but putting into place correct systems.”  Aquino was elected in May promising to bolster the economy
by doubling  tourist  arrivals and reducing  corruption . The deaths
underscore the risks of traveling and working in a country
ranked 130th out of 149 in the  Global Peace Index , which weighs
factors such as violent crimes, access to weapons and political
instability.  10-Hour Siege  The eight tour group members died in the 10-hour incident
on August 23. The hijacker, a dismissed police officer demanding
reinstatement, fired on the hostages, prompting the police to
stage an assault in which he was killed.  The report said the eight were killed by shots from the
hostage-taker’s rifle, based on “materials reviewed so far.”
The head of the committee earlier said some may have died from
police fire.  The report released by the government on one of its
websites didn’t touch on President Benigno Aquino’s failure to
return Hong Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang ’s call during the
incident. China’s Foreign Ministry today said the report was a
“careful and sincere effort.”  In a statement, Mayor Lim said he did activate the crisis
committee, that the hijacker’s brother was handcuffed, not
arrested and that he transferred the command post to a
restaurant, not “leave his post.”  No Information  Another critical incident identified in the report was the
police’s assault of the bus without information on the vehicle’s
doors and windows and the municipal police officer’s failure to
use the Special Action Force at the start of the operation, in
spite of orders to do. Aquino last week said his mistake was
continuing to trust police officers who earlier failed to send
the Special Action Force to the scene.  The report was produced by a committee led by Justice
Secretary Leila de Lima. The version released on a government
website didn’t include the committee’s conclusions and
recommendations. Aquino said his executive secretary and legal
counsel would review the whole report before he decides on any
action against individuals. He said criminal and administrative
sanctions had been recommended.  The report also said the police failed to control media
coverage, allowed the hijacker to view police movements and the
arrest of his brother from a TV in the bus.  Some journalists skirted ethical rules, the report said.
Aquino said the police’s hostage negotiator shouldn’t have had
to “wait in line” to talk to the hijacker while journalists
were interviewing him on the phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francisco Alcuaz Jr . at 
 falcuaz@bloomberg.net ;
 Joel Guinto  in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net  