-- SEC's Cuban Insider-Trading Suit Is Revived by Court
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-09-21T19:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/mark-cuban-insider-trading-suit-over-mamma-com-is-revived-by-appeals-court.html
Mark Cuban , the billionaire owner
of the Dallas Mavericks, must face insider-trading allegations
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that were thrown
out last year by a lower-court judge, an appeals court ruled.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans overturned the
lower-court ruling in a decision today. In a 2008 lawsuit, the
SEC accused Cuban of trading on confidential information when he
sold his stake in Mamma.com Inc., a Canadian Internet search
company, just before it announced a private placement of shares.  Cuban argued he had no legal obligation not to sell the
stock after  Guy Faure , then Mamma.com’s chief executive officer,
told him of the impending private  offering  of below-market
shares in a 2004 telephone call. Cuban sold ahead of the deal,
which diluted the company’s shares by 8.5 percent.  “The allegations, taken in their entirety, provide more
than a plausible basis to find that the understanding between
the CEO and Cuban was that he was not to trade, that it was more
than a simple confidentiality agreement,” the appellate panel
said.  The agency claimed Cuban agreed with Faure at the beginning
of their call to keep the information confidential and told
Faure after learning details of the plan, “Well, now I’m
screwed. I can’t sell.”  The appeals judges stopped short of saying that a
confidentiality agreement implicitly contains a duty not to
trade and said the final outcome of the case depends on the
evidence to be gathered.  ‘Paucity of Jurisprudence’  “Given the paucity of jurisprudence on the question of
what constitutes a relationship of ‘trust and confidence’ and
the inherently fact-bound nature of determining whether such a
duty exists, we decline to first determine or place our thumb on
the scale in the district court’s determination of its
presence,” the panel wrote in its decision.  Stephen Best , one of Cuban’s attorneys at  Dewey & LeBoeuf
LLP , said it appears the appeals court accepted the argument
that a confidentiality agreement alone isn’t proof of
wrongdoing.  “The uncontradicted record in this case is devoid of any
information suggesting any agreement imposing a fiduciary-like
responsibility on Cuban,” he said.  The SEC is “pleased” with the decision, spokesman  John Nester  said in a statement.  Avoided Losses  Cuban avoided $750,000 in losses by ordering the sale of
his 6.3 percent stake in the Montreal-based company now called
Copernic Inc. within hours of talking to Faure, the SEC alleged.
The stock fell 8.5 percent on June 30, 2004, the first trading
day after the private placement was announced, and 15 percent
the day after Cuban’s sales were disclosed in a regulatory
filing made public July 2, according to Bloomberg data.  U.S. District Judge  Sidney A. Fitzwater  in Dallas threw out
the case in July 2009, ruling that Cuban didn’t agree not to
trade on the information, only to keep it confidential.  “Under Cuban’s reading, he was allowed to trade on the
information but prohibited from telling others -- in effect
providing him an exclusive license to trade on the material
nonpublic information,” the appeals judges said.  Cuban owns the HDNet high-definition television channel and
the Landmark Theater chain. He made his fortune through the sale
of Broadcast.com, the multimedia Web service he co-founded and
that Yahoo! Inc. bought for $4.7 billion in 1999.  The next year, Cuban purchased the Mavericks from  Ross Perot Jr.  for $280 million, a record at the time for a National
Basketball Association team.  The case is SEC v. Cuban, 09-10996, 5th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 