-- Asia Hedge Fund Assets Rise 3.9% on Flat Inflows, Returns, AsiaHedge Says
-- Tomoko Yamazaki
-- 2010-09-21T02:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/asia-hedge-fund-assets-rise-3-9-on-flat-inflows-returns-asiahedge-says.html

          
          
             Asian hedge-fund assets rose 3.9
percent to $137.8 billion in the first half as weak net inflows
of capital and flat performance slowed asset recovery, according
to  AsiaHedge .  
 The region’s hedge funds oversaw $132.5 billion at the end
of last year, London-based AsiaHedge said in an e-mailed
statement today.  
 “The nascent recovery seen in Asian hedge fund assets
toward the end of last year has been stalled due to weak capital
inflows, continued redemptions and largely flat performance of
the funds in the first half of 2010,” said Aradhna Dayal, Hong
Kong-based editor of AsiaHedge.  
 Global hedge fund assets increased 3 percent in the first
half to $1.65 trillion, according to data from Chicago-based
Hedge Fund Research Inc., as concerns that the pace of economic
recovery will stall cast a shadow over securities markets. Asia
hedge funds lost 0.3 percent in the first eight months, the
worst performing of six regions tracked by Singapore-based
 Eurekahedge Pte .  
 A Deutsche Bank AG survey in March expected global hedge
fund assets to recover to $1.72 trillion this year.  
 “It will be a slow crawl back up for Asian managers,
combined with at least one more major round of consolidation,”
Dayal said. Investors are probably waiting for the right climate
to restart allocation, she added.  
 Asia-based managers now oversee $97.5 billion or 71 percent
of the region’s industry assets with managers in the U.K. and
U.S. running $40.3 billion, AsiaHedge said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net ;
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        