-- Most Asian Stocks Dip as Copper Falls, Yen Rises; Technology Shares Gain
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-09-21T10:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/asian-stocks-gain-as-u-s-economic-concerns-ease-james-hardie-canon-rise.html
Most  Asian stocks  fell, led by
automakers in Japan and mining companies, on concern the U.S.
Federal Reserve may announce more measures to bolster the
world’s largest economy following a policy meeting today.  Honda Motor Co. , Japan’s No. 2 automaker, and  Sony Corp. ,
which makes Bravia televisions, dropped at least 0.5 percent in
Tokyo as a stronger yen threatened the value of overseas revenue.
Jiangxi Copper Co. slumped 4 percent in Shanghai as prices of
the metal declined. Powerchip Technology Corp., which makes
memory chips, climbed 6.5 percent in Taipei after the country’s
export orders beat estimates.  About 11 stocks declined for every 10 that advanced in the
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index , which climbed 0.1 percent to 124.87 as
of 7:23 p.m. in Tokyo. The gauge has jumped 7.2 percent this
month as Chinese and U.S. economic data boosted investor
confidence in the global economy. Companies in the index are
valued at an average 14.2 times estimated profit, the highest
level since Aug. 10, the date of the Fed’s last policy meeting.  “Given that the market’s had a pretty good rebound, it
puts a greater focus on what the Fed comes out and says,” said
 Matt Riordan , who helps manage about $5.2 billion at Paradice
Investment Management in Sydney. “The reality is that it’s
already been a painfully slow recovery and people are worried
it’s going to stall.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  fell 0.3 percent after
rising 0.8 percent earlier. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index 
slipped 0.3 percent, while New Zealand’s  NZX 50 Index  advanced
0.6 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained 0.1 percent.  Lennar Profit  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  in the U.S.
slipped 0.1 percent. The gauge climbed 1.5 percent to a four-
month high yesterday after Lennar Corp.’s profit beat analyst
estimates and International Business Machines Corp., the world’s
largest provider of computer services, announced a $1.7 billion
takeover.  The Fed will prepare investors for additional purchases of
securities to keep borrowing costs low when policy makers meet
today,  Richard Clarida , global strategic adviser for Pacific
Investment Management Co., said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday.  Honda Motor lost 0.5 percent to 3,000 yen after the yen
appreciated to 85.61 yen from 85.69 yesterday in New York. A
stronger yen reduces export revenues when repatriated. Toyota
Motor Corp., the world’s biggest automaker, dropped 0.5 percent
to 3,070 yen. Sony Corp slipped 1.5 percent to 2,637 yen.  “If there is any surprise, it could be that the Fed brings
forward plans for monetary easing, which would lead to a weaker
dollar and stronger yen,” said  Tomomi Yamashita , a fund manager
in Tokyo at Shinkin Asset Management Co., which oversees about
$6 billion.  Investor Survey  The Federal Open Market Committee triggered a stock selloff
with its last statement on Aug. 10 that they will maintain their
holdings of securities to stop money from draining out of the
financial system. The  S&P 500 Index  tumbled 7.1 percent during
the two weeks following the statement. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index fell as much as 4.2 percent.  Few global investors believe the economy is recovering,
with one in six of respondents to a Bloomberg quarterly poll
describing it as expanding. Forty-one percent aren’t convinced
the financial situation is stable and say further turbulence is
likely, according to the poll of 1,408 investors, analysts and
traders who are Bloomberg subscribers.  A gauge of raw-material producers in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index sank 0.3 percent, the  biggest decline  of 10 industry
groups. Copper futures in London declined as much as 0.6 percent,
reversing a gain of 0.6 percent earlier.  Taiwanese Exports  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal,
slumped 4 percent to 29.49 yuan in Shanghai.  Hindalco Industries
Ltd. , an Indian producer of copper and aluminum, dropped 1
percent to 191.95 rupees in Bombay.  Among the stocks that advanced, Powerchip surged 6.5
percent to NT$8.09, leading Taiwanese exporters higher after
government data yesterday showed export orders, an indication of
shipments in the next one to three months, increased more than
economists estimated.  Asustek Computer Inc. , which makes laptop computers, rose
1.1 percent to NT$229.5. Advanced Semiconductor Engineering Inc.
climbed 1.4 percent to NT$24.85.  In Tokyo, Acom Co., the country’s biggest consumer lender,
surged 17 percent to 1,548 yen, leading consumer lenders higher
on speculation they will benefit from a decline in claims by
customers for refunds of overcharged interest.  Takefuji Corp. advanced 8.1 percent to 187 yen and Promise
Co. jumped 8.6 percent to 718 yen.  Consumer lenders are receiving fewer claims, leading to a
buying spree for the stocks, said  Natsumu Tsujino , an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. The industry has paid billions of dollars
worth of interest-refund claims since the Supreme Court ruled
that lenders had charged excessive interest rates and the
parliament passed a law restricting credit costs in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 