-- Asian Currencies Strengthen as Economic Growth, Rate Outlook Lure Funds
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2010-09-21T09:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/asian-currencies-strengthen-as-economic-growth-rate-outlook-lure-funds.html
Asian currencies strengthened as
the prospect of interest-rate increases to cool economic growth
encouraged overseas investors to add to holdings of the region’s
assets.  The rupiah climbed 0.2 percent to 8,963 per dollar as of
3:44 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
China’s yuan strengthened 0.1 percent to 6.7047 after earlier
reaching 6.6987, the strongest level since 1993, and the
Philippine peso gained 0.1 percent to 44.013 per dollar.  “With the better growth outlook in Asia than other regions
and the speculation about rate increases, funds will continue to
come into the region,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a global economist
at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Asian currencies will
remain under pressure to strengthen.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index  rose to its
highest level in two years. Global funds have poured about $6
billion into stocks in Indonesia, South Korea, the Philippines,
Taiwan and Thailand this month through yesterday, according to
exchange data. Asia’s developing economies will expand 9.2
percent in 2010, outpacing growth of 2.6 percent in advanced
countries, the International Monetary Fund forecast in July.  The rupiah rose the most since Sept. 13 after overseas
investors added to holdings of the nation’s stocks for a seventh
day yesterday, seeking to profit from accelerating growth in
Southeast Asia’s largest economy. Indonesia’s economy will
expand 6 percent this year after growing 4.55 percent in 2009,
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said on Sept. 15.  Political Pressure  The yuan appreciated after U.S. President Barack Obama
criticized China for not letting its currency strengthen.
China’s leaders haven’t done “everything they said would be
done” to allow appreciation, Obama said at a town hall
discussion in Washington.  “The yuan’s quicker appreciation is related to the
political game between China and the U.S. on the currency
policy,” said  Isaac Meng , a Beijing-based economist at BNP
Paribas. “It’s also related to the dollar’s broad weakness
because the yuan is managed against a basket of currencies.”  Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.1 percent to 3.10 per dollar,
near a 13-year high, on speculation the nation’s yield advantage
over developed countries will lure more overseas investments.
Malaysia’s benchmark interest rate is 2.75 percent, compared
with between zero and 0.25 percent in the U.S.  Thailand’s baht was little changed at 30.74 after a report
in the Thai-language Krungthep Turakij newspaper sparked concern
curbs will be introduced to stem overseas investors’ speculation
in local bond markets. Bank of Thailand Governor Tarisa
Watanagase said today existing measures to curb currency
volatility are sufficient.  Elsewhere, the Singapore dollar gained 0.1 percent to
S$1.3322 per dollar, while Taiwan’s dollar surrendered gains in
the last minute of trading to close little changed at NT$31.765.
South Korea’s financial markets were closed for a public
holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 