-- Australia Increases Commodity Export Sales Outlook to Record $203 Billion
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-09-21T04:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/australia-increases-commodity-export-sales-forecast-to-record-203-billion.html
Australia, the world’s largest
shipper of coal, iron ore and wool, raised its forecast for
commodity exports this fiscal year to a record amid increasing
demand and climbing prices.  Sales may be A$214.9 billion ($203.4 billion) in the year
ending June 30, 2011, the Canberra-based Australian Bureau of
Agricultural and Resource Economics-Bureau of Rural Sciences
said today in an e-mailed statement. That compares with its June
estimate of A$202.5 billion and a revised A$170.6 billion for
the previous year.  The Reserve Bank of Australia may resume raising interest
rates as the biggest mining boom in more than a century stokes
the economy next year, bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled
yesterday. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining company,
and Rio Tinto Group are among producers boosting output of
commodities such as iron ore as demand in China boosts sales.  “The minerals sector has been very strong, and although
there is a bit of near-term softness in some parts in the next
quarter perhaps, we think it will continue to strengthen through
the early part of 2011,” Rob Brooker, National Australia Bank
Ltd. head of Australian economics & commodities, said by phone
in Melbourne today.  Gold, Nickel  Earnings from energy and mineral exports are forecast at
A$179.9 billion, an increase of 30 percent from the previous
year, according to the bureau. Increases in shipments and higher
prices for iron ore and coal were the main reasons for the rise,
with a “strong performance” also expected for gold, alumina
and nickel, it said.  “Continued strong growth in emerging economies, especially
China and India, is expected to drive commodity demand and
underpin prices,” bureau analysts Alan Copeland and Farah
Beaini wrote in the report.  Australia’s Labor Government, led by Julia Gillard, has
pledged to introduce a 30 percent tax on coal and iron ore
mining profits as it seeks to widen the national benefit from
the resources boom.  Economic growth is forecast by the Reserve Bank to
strengthen in 2011 as the mining investment boom intensifies.  “Prospects in the resources sector were especially
positive, and the increase in investment in this sector would
have significant flow-on effects to the broader economy,” the
reserve bank said in minutes released in Sydney today.  Domestic Incomes  The forecast export performance this year and gains in the
terms of trade would flow through to domestic incomes and may
“eventually” lead to some inflationary pressure, National
Australia Bank’s Brooker said.  ‘It will add to pressure for an earlier move on interest
rates but that will also depend on what happens in some of the
struggling sectors of the domestic economy,” he said.  The value of farm exports is forecast to rise by 10 percent
to A$31.4 billion this fiscal year led by increased crop
production in eastern Australia following rainfall and favorable
prices for commodities including wheat, barley, cotton, beef,
sheepmeat and dairy products, according to the bureau.  Agrium Inc. , based in Calgary, last month bid A$1.2 billion
for AWB Ltd., Australia’s largest wheat exporter, as
international companies show increased interest in the nation’s
agricultural assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 