-- Reserve Bank Says Higher Rates Likely to Be Needed If Growth Continues
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-09-21T03:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/australia-may-require-higher-rates-if-growth-continues-central-bank-says.html

          
          
             Australia is likely to need higher
interest rates if the central bank’s forecast is realized for
the nation’s economy to continue expanding at its trend pace or
faster, policy makers said.  
 While the bank remains “alert” to risks such as weaker
global growth, “members considered that if the central scenario
came to pass it was likely that higher interest rates would be
required, at some point,” the Reserve Bank of Australia said in
 minutes  of its Sept. 7 meeting released in Sydney today.  
 Investors have increased bets that Governor  Glenn Stevens 
will resume the most aggressive round of interest-rate increases
by a Group of 20 member as early as next month. The bank left
borrowing costs unchanged for a fourth straight meeting two
weeks ago, citing concern about the outlook for the U.S. economy
and government debt among some European countries.  
 “It’s obvious rates are going up and timing is now the key
question,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist at ICAP Australia
Ltd. in Sydney. “That’s important, because it wasn’t too long
ago that the market was pricing in cuts.”  
 Carr also said the RBA’s minutes suggest there is no
urgency to begin raising borrowing costs next month, and that
Stevens is likely to wait until after third quarter inflation
figures are published ahead of the bank’s November meeting.  
 The Australian dollar traded at 94.55 U.S. cents at 12:08
p.m. in Sydney from 94.66 cents just before the report was
released. The two-year government bond yield was unchanged at
4.83 percent.  
 Rate Bets  
 Stevens and his board raised borrowing costs in six
quarter-percentage-point steps from October to May, taking the
 benchmark overnight cash rate target  to 4.5 percent.  
 Traders calculate an 88 percent chance of a quarter-point
boost to the benchmark rate to 4.75 percent by early December,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on interbank futures
on the Sydney Futures Exchange at 11:40 a.m. Last month, chances
of an increase this year stood at zero. There’s also a 34
percent chance of a move in October.  
 “The central scenario remained for the Australian economy
to grow at trend pace, or a bit above, over the next few
years,” today’s minutes said. “This forecast incorporated
quite a subdued outlook for the main Group of Seven economies
and around trend growth in Asia.”  
 Mining Investment  
 Economic growth is forecast by the bank to strengthen in
2011 as the biggest mining investment boom in more than a
century intensifies. Expansion by companies such as  Chevron
Corp. , which is developing the Gorgon liquefied natural gas
project in Western Australia, threatens to worsen a skills
shortage and stoke consumer prices. Policy makers aim to keep
inflation between 2 percent and 3 percent on average.  
 “Members observed that previous investment booms and
increases in the terms of trade had posed significant challenges
for economic policy, and that high levels of resource
utilization were likely to put pressure on inflation,” the
minutes said  
 Speculation the bank may resume rate increases this year
intensified after reports this month showed business confidence
jumped in August to the highest level in four months and
employers added 30,900 workers, pushing the jobless rate down to
5.1 percent, matching the lowest level since January 2009.  
 “Prospects in the resources sector were especially
positive, and the increase in investment in this sector would
have significant flow-on effects to the broader economy,” the
minutes said.  
 Today’s minutes also echo remarks yesterday by Stevens, who
signaled the bank may resume raising interest rates if risks
such as another bout of financial market instability or further
contraction in the U.S. economy don’t emerge.  
 “If downside possibilities do not materialize, the task
ahead is likely to be one of managing a fairly robust upswing,”
Stevens  told  a forum in the regional city of Shepparton in
Victoria state yesterday. “Part of that task will, clearly,
fall to monetary policy.”  
 The bank’s next monetary policy meeting will be on Oct. 5.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       RBA Says Higher Rates Likely If Growth Continues  
                       
                         
                           Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Investors have increased bets this month that Governor Glenn Stevens will resume the most aggressive round of interest-rate increases by a Group of 20 member as early as next month. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Investors have increased bets this month that Governor Glenn Stevens will resume the most aggressive round of interest-rate increases by a Group of 20 member as early as next month.  Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
