-- Australian Dollar Reaches Two-Year High on Widening Yield Spread to U.S.
-- B y   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-09-22T17:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/australia-dollar-trades-near-highest-in-two-years-on-widening-yield-spread.html
Australia’s dollar advanced to a
two-year high on prospects its central bank will raise rates
while the Federal Reserve eases monetary policy further,
increasing the South Pacific nation’s yield advantage.  The so-called Aussie gained as the spread between 10-year
 Australian  and U.S. yields was near the widest in more than two
years, after a report showed an Australian index of leading
economic indicators rose in July. New Zealand’s dollar climbed
for a fourth day versus the greenback before data tomorrow
forecast to show the nation’s economic growth accelerated.  “A clear difference in monetary policy stance between
Australia and the U.S. should give an important catalyst for
Aussie,” said  Kumiko Gervaise , a foreign-exchange analyst in
Tokyo at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a unit of Japan’s
largest online currency margin trading company.  Australia’s currency rose 0.2 percent to 95.32 U.S. cents
at 12:56 p.m. in New York from 95.52 cents yesterday after
earlier hitting 96 cents, the most since July 2008. It bought
80.65 yen from 81.27 yen yesterday.  New Zealand’s dollar advanced 0.5 percent to 73.84 U.S.
cents from 73.51 cents and traded at 62.19 yen from 62.54 yen.  An Australian index of leading economic indicators gained
0.4 percent,  Westpac Banking Corp.  and the Melbourne Institute
said in Sydney today.  Brought Forward  Today’s report adds to evidence the Australian economy, one
of few to skirt last year’s global recession, is weathering the
central bank’s six interest rate increases between October and
May. Australia is likely to need higher interest rates if the
Reserve Bank of Australia’s forecast is realized for the economy
to continue expanding at or faster than its trend pace, policy
makers said yesterday.  “We have brought forward our timing” for the next RBA
“rate hike to October, from our earlier assessment of February
next year,” said  Bill Evans , chief economist at Westpac in
Sydney. “This is in response to some extremely hawkish
remarks” by the bank in yesterday’s minutes for its September
policy meeting, he said.  Minutes from the Reserve Bank of Australia’s meeting this
month showed policy makers said higher interest rates may be
needed to cope with the nation’s economic expansion.  RBA Interest Rates  The RBA raised borrowing costs in six quarter-percentage-
point steps from October to May, taking the benchmark overnight
cash rate target to 4.5 percent.  In contrast, the Federal Reserve said yesterday it’s
willing to ease monetary policy further to spur growth and
support prices.  “The committee will continue to monitor the economic
outlook and financial developments and is prepared to provide
additional accommodation if needed to support the economic
recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate,” the Federal Open Market Committee
said yesterday in a statement in Washington.  The extra yield that Australia’s 10-year debt holds over
the same-maturity note in the U.S. reached 258 basis points
today, the most since July 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  