-- Tax on Bankers' Bonuses Earns U.K. Treasury 40% More Than Osborne Expected
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-09-21T11:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/tax-on-bankers-bonuses-earns-u-k-treasury-40-more-than-osborne-expected.html
Banks paid 40 percent more than
predicted in a one-off bonus tax to the British government,
suggesting the levy on payrolls failed to limit executive pay.  Lenders paid 3.5 billion pounds ($5.4 billion) by Aug. 31,
according to government figures published in London today.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said in June he
expected to raise 2.5 billion pounds from the tax.  The figures were released a day after Business Secretary
 Vince Cable  warned of an “enormous kickback” from lawmakers of
all parties unless British banks hold back from paying big
bonuses. Politicians are trying to contain popular anger of
bankers’ pay as they seek to implement the biggest squeeze in
 public spending  since World War II.  “It’s incredibly important that the banks understand you
cannot possibly award yourself ludicrously sky-high bonuses,”
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  told BBC Radio 4 today. “If
the banks pay themselves unjustified bonuses, we reserve the
right to take very serious action.”  Osborne’s predecessor as chancellor,  Alistair Darling ,
introduced the one-time 50 percent levy on discretionary bonus
payments exceeding 25,000 pounds almost a year ago when the
Labour Party was in power. The Labour government originally
forecast the levy, which covered bonuses awarded between
December 2009 and April 2010, would raise 550 million pounds.  The Treasury said today that the net benefit to the
Exchequer will be 2.3 billion pounds, as the levy reduced other
taxes banks were liable to pay.  Financial-Activities Tax  Ministers from Conservative and Liberal Democrat parties in
the coalition government have urged banks to show restraint over
bonuses as Britain emerges from recession. They are continuing
to explore the introduction of a financial-activities tax on
profits and pay.  Osborne introduced a separate bank levy in June that will
earn the Treasury about 2.5 billion pounds a year. The levy
affects British banks and building societies with assets of 20
billion pounds or more, as well as branches and subsidiaries of
overseas lenders.  Britain’s five largest banks,  HSBC Holdings Plc , Barclays
Plc,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Lloyds Banking Group Plc
and Standard Chartered Plc, are expected to make a combined
profit of 28 billion pounds in 2011, according to analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 