-- Baltic Region Growth Forecasts Raised by Swedbank on Demand for Exports
-- B y   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2010-09-21T11:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/baltic-region-growth-forecasts-raised-by-swedbank-on-demand-for-exports.html
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania’s
economies will grow faster than previously forecast as demand
for exports increases, according to  Swedbank AB , the largest
lender in the Baltic countries.  The  Estonian economy  may grow 2.2 percent, compared with an
April estimate of 1.5 percent, the Stockholm-based bank said in
a report on the Baltic Sea region published today. Lithuania’s
 gross domestic product  is likely to expand 0.5 percent, rather
than contract 2 percent, and Latvia’s will probably shrink 1.5
percent, less than the previous forecast of 2.5 percent.  “Estonia’s economy has been supported by a strong
improvement in the Finnish, Swedish and German economies in the
first half of this year,” said  Maris Lauri , Swedbank’s chief
economist in Tallinn, at a news conference. “A recovery in
Latvia and Lithuania is also supported by exports, while
domestic demand will remain weak due to high unemployment and
declining incomes.”  The Baltic region’s economies are recovering after
shrinking as much as 25 percent from peak levels in the past two
years, the world’s worst recessions during the global financial
crisis, the International Monetary Fund said this month. Exports
and industrial output expanded this year as global trade
improved and wage and job cuts helped increase competitiveness.  GDP Forecasts  Latvia and Lithuania’s economies are likely to grow 3
percent each in 2011, and Estonia may expand 4.5 percent, helped
by declining unemployment and rising consumption, Swedbank said.
The unemployment rate will peak this year at 19.5 percent in
Latvia, 17.8 percent in Estonia and 17 percent in Lithuania. It
will ease to 15.5 percent in Estonia and Lithuania next year,
and to 17.5 percent in Latvia.  The goal of Latvia and Lithuania to follow Estonia into the
euro zone in 2014 requires a “decisive” reduction of budget
deficits, which limits both governments’ options for supporting
their economies and raises the risk of reducing growth,
according to Swedbank.  Inflation will average 2.6 percent in Estonia and 1 percent
in Lithuania this year, with prices declining 1.2 percent in
Latvia, the bank forecast. In 2011, consumer-price growth will
accelerate to 3 percent in Estonia, 1.5 percent in Latvia and
remain unchanged in Lithuania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Milda Seputyte  in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net 
 Ott Ummelas  in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  