-- Barclays Executives Will Be `Mugs' If African Expansion Fails, Agius Says
-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 2010-09-21T11:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/barclays-executives-will-be-mugs-if-african-expansion-fails-agius-says.html
Bob Diamond ,  Barclays Plc ’s next
chief executive officer, is “fully signed on” to expanding the
London-based lender in Africa, Chairman  Marcus Agius  said.  “We have in Barclays a unique historical advantage which
is this huge footprint in sub-Saharan Africa,” Agius said
today. “If we can’t capitalize on that in the best possible
way, we are mugs. So he is absolutely fully signed on.”  Agius, 64, said the growth potential in Africa is huge.
Barclays operates in 10 African countries from Kenya to Tanzania
and controls South Africa’s Absa Group Ltd. In June, Barclays
outgoing CEO  John Varley  gave an “absolute” commitment to keep
its investment in Absa. Diamond will become CEO when Varley
steps down at the end of March, the lender said this month.  Agius defended Diamond, who he said gets “some perfectly
dreadful press.” He described him as a “business builder” who
had expanded Barclays Capital globally, an achievement that
“exceeds” post-World War II financier  Siegmund Warburg  “by a
factor.” Diamond, 59, was this year described as the
“unacceptable face” of banking by then-U.K. Business Secretary
 Peter Mandelson .  “He is largely characterized as an absolutely tunnel-
visioned investment banker who lives, eats and breathes that
kind of banking and knows nothing else. In fact he is much more
than that,” Agius said in a speech organized by the  Royal
African Society  in London. “If anybody is getting nervous about
what Bob’s becoming chief executive might mean for our ambitions
in Africa I would allay it.”  Diamond rates Absa CEO  Maria Ramos  “very highly indeed,”
Agius said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Clark  in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  