-- Basswood Said to Open Hedge Fund to New Cash After Four Years
-- B y   N a t h a n i e l   E .   B a k e r
-- 2010-09-21T15:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/basswood-partners-said-to-open-hedge-fund-to-new-cash-after-four-years.html
Basswood Partners LLC, the New
York-based hedge-fund firm that returned most of its outside
cash to investors four years ago, is taking new deposits,
according to a person briefed on the matter.  The firm, which bets on rising and falling stock prices,
gave back almost $1 billion in June 2006 after a clash with
clients over performance expectations, according to the person,
who asked not to be named because the fund is private. Chief
Operating Officer  Marc Samit  declined to comment.  Basswood, run by twin brothers Matthew and  Bennett Lindenbaum , began planning to seek fresh money about eight
months ago, and considered using third-party marketers, the
person said. The firm instead earlier this month hired  Jim Sheehan , who previously worked at Ivy Investment Management and
Brencourt Advisors LLC, to head the effort.  Investors putting in cash will be offered a fee structure
that rewards long-term commitments, the person said. Hedge funds
are cutting fees after $286 billion in net withdrawals in 2008
and 2009, according to data from Chicago-based  Hedge Fund
Research Inc.  Firms took in $23.3 billion in the first half of
this year, data from Hedge Fund Research show.  Basswood, which oversees about $400 million, will charge a
1.5 percent management fee on new deposits, compared with the
industry standard of 2 percent, according to the person.  Investors will pay 10 percent of annual gains as a
performance fee if they lock up their money for three years,
instead of the traditional 20 percent. That levy climbs to 15
percent for those who commit for two years and to 20 percent for
customers who need 90-day access to their cash. The investment
minimum is $2 million.  Citadel, Raptor  Citadel LLC, based in Chicago, is considering lowering fees
on its main funds to attract investors after losses two years
ago, according to two people with knowledge of its plans.  James Pallotta , who shut his Boston-based Raptor Global
hedge funds in June 2009 after declining almost 29 percent since
the start of 2007, is again soliciting investors and won’t
charge performance fees until previous clients recoup losses,
the New York Times reported on Sept. 17.  Basswood started in 1994 and didn’t have a losing year
until 2008, when it declined 7.5 percent, according to the
person familiar with the firm’s plans. It returned 12.5 percent
in 2009 and about 1 percent this year through Aug. 31. At its
peak in early 2006, the firm managed more than $2 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathaniel  E. Baker in New York at 
 Nbaker14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  