-- BCE's Cope Says He Expects `Very Quick' Approval Process for CTV Purchase
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-09-21T16:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/bce-ceo-cope-expects-very-quick-approval-process-for-ctv-acquisition.html
BCE Inc.  expects regulatory
approval for its proposed C$1.3 billion ($1.26 billion) purchase
of Canadian broadcaster CTV to be a “very quick” process, said
Chief Executive Officer  George Cope .  As it evaluates the transaction, the country’s regulator
will consider the so-called ‘tangible benefits’ rule, which
typically requires the buyer to spend 10 percent of the value of
the deal on improving Canadian broadcasting. Cope said he
believes BCE has already met the requirement because it  agreed  
to spend C$230 million on new programming when it bought control
of CTV the first time, for C$2.3 billion in 2000.  “We believe we paid that compensation when we initially
made the acquisition,” Cope said. “Our clear reading and
belief of the structure and the process in Canada is that we
shouldn’t be required to pay it.”  After former CEO  Jean Monty  created Bell GlobeMedia in 2000
as part of an expansion into the media business,  Michael Sabia ,
his successor and Cope’s predecessor, cut BCE’s stake in Bell
GlobeMedia, the parent of CTV, to 20 percent in 2005.  Now, BCE, based in Montreal, is offering to buy 100 percent
of CTV and its specialty and sports channels to add more
broadcast content under its Bell brand and compete with rivals
as revenue from its traditional phone business slows. Shaw
Communications Inc. bought Canwest Global Communications Corp.’s
television assets this year, and Rogers Communications Inc. owns
Citytv and the Sportsnet channel.  Peggy Nebout, a spokeswoman for the regulator, the Canadian
Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission, said it
hasn’t received the BCE application yet and declined to comment
on Cope’s remarks.  BCE fell 17 cents, or 0.5 percent, to C$33.50 at 12:46 p.m.
in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The stock had climbed 16
percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  