-- Bentley's `Flying B' Hood Ornament Poses Crash Risk, U.S. Says in Recall
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-09-21T18:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/bentley-s-flying-b-hood-ornament-poses-crash-risk-u-s-says-in-recall.html
Bentley hood ornaments may injure
pedestrians in a crash by failing to retract, leading the luxury
carmaker to recall 596 vehicles in the U.S.  The metal emblem known as the “flying B” may not fold
down in a collision as intended because a mechanism may become
corroded, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration, which posted the recall on its  website .  The recall covers 2007 to 2009 Arnage, Azure and Brooklands
models, the safety agency said. Dealers for the  Volkswagen AG 
brand will replace the retractable “B” mechanism free of
charge, the agency said.  Hood ornaments, common on vehicles through much of the 20th
century, have been dropped amid safety concerns and lack of
consumer demand,  Scott Oldham , editor-in-chief of Edmunds.com,
an auto research firm in Santa Monica, California, said in an
interview today. Luxury cars such as the Bentley still feature
the emblems.  “Simply over time they fell out of fashion,” Oldham said.
“If the people wanted them they’d be on every single car you’d
see.”  The Bentley’s emblem normally drops down into the hood in a
collision, said Valentine O’Connor, a company spokeswoman, in an
interview. Dealers alerted the carmaker to the corrosion, she
said.  “We do take it seriously,” O’Connor said of the defect.
“This is a precautionary measure.”  No Accidents, Injuries  There have been no accidents or injuries with the Bentley
“B,” O’Connor said. A supplier has taken steps to prevent
corrosion, adding grease to the mechanism and preventing water
from collecting inside it, she said.  All three recalled models have a retail price for the 2010
model year of more than $200,000, according to the website
Edmunds.com.  Safety regulations led manufacturers to make the
decorations retractable so they wouldn’t impale or jab
pedestrians in a collision, Oldham said.  His 1955 Chevrolet has an ornament “the size of my head”
and it is bolted down, Oldham said. “Over time they realized
that wasn’t such a good idea.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Hughes in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 