-- Berlin City Says Talks to Sell Owner of 42,000 Properties Are `Going Well'
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2010-09-21T11:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/berlin-city-says-talks-to-sell-owner-of-42-000-properties-are-going-well-.html
The city of Berlin’s talks to sell
BIH GmbH, a company that owns 42,000 homes and commercial
properties, to a U.K. investor are “going well,” Finance
Senator  Ulrich Nussbaum  said.  The discussions with  Altyon Partners LLC  hinge on BIH’s
debts, Nussbaum said in an interview in Berlin yesterday. These
liabilities would be taken on by the buyer, possibly over
several years in a “structured” settlement, he said.  “We’re addressing this huge, complex sale in all its
legal, economic and political aspects and the talks are going
well,” Nussbaum said. “We’ve insisted from the start that we
need to transfer all of BIH’s liabilities and you can assume
that the potential purchaser has the necessary financial means
at its disposal.”  BIH manages properties formerly owned by  Bankgesellschaft
Berlin AG , a company that was bailed out by the city after
accumulating billions of euros in bad loans. Berlin sold the
lender for 4.62 billion euros ($6.1 billion) in 2007 and set
aside the proceeds for BIH’s liabilities until a buyer is found.
The cash will run out in 2012, according to lawmakers,
increasing pressure on the city to divest BIH at the third
attempt.  ‘Watertight’ Deal  “We need to get BIH off the city’s asset books by 2012,”
Dilek Kolat, a Social Democratic lawmaker who is chairwoman of
the city parliament’s asset management committee, said in an
interview on Sept. 6. “The disposal of BIH’s liabilities must
be legally watertight.”  Berlin’s ruling coalition of Social Democrats and the Left
Party both back a sale that would rid the city-state of future
costs linked to BIH. The capital city of 3.4 million people has
the second-highest per capita debt of Germany’s 16 states.  BIH’s 595 homes and commercial buildings generate annual
rental income of about 418 million euros, according to BIH’s
2009 annual report. BIH was created as the Bankgesellschaft’s
“bad bank” comprising property with liabilities including
rental guarantees, bank credit and maintenance. The bank was
rescued by the city in 2001 after being unable to meet the
liabilities.  A spokesman for London-based Altyon Partners declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 