-- Betfair Plans London Listing by End of October to Aid International Growth
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-09-21T15:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/betfair-betting-exchange-announces-plan-for-initial-london-share-listing.html
Betfair Group Ltd., which enables
bettors in 140 countries to wager with each other over the
Internet, said it plans to list shares in London by the end of
October to assist its international development.  The company’s 14 biggest investors, including founders
 Andrew Black  and  Edward Wray , will sell at least 10 percent of
the shares in an offering to financial institutions, London-
based Betfair said in a statement today. The betting exchange,
whose biggest investor is Japanese telecommunications company
 SoftBank Corp. , doesn’t plan to raise any new money.  “Having a public listing gives us flexibility,” Chief
Executive Officer  David Yu  said on a conference call. “It gives
us added transparency as we move into other jurisdictions
because being a listed company in many jurisdictions actually
makes the licensing process more straightforward than it is if
you were a private company.”  A share offering may value Betfair at about 1.5 billion
pounds ($2.33 billion), the Sunday Times reported this month.
Revenue has grown at least 10 percent every year since the
company was founded in 2000, rising 13 percent to 340.9 million
pounds in the year ended April 30. Profit fell last year because
of a 25 million-pound investment in the betting platform over
three years and increased marketing for the soccer World Cup.  The reported valuation may be too high for a company with
adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization of 53.5 million pounds, said  Michael Campbell , an
analyst for London-based  Daniel Stewart Securities Plc .  ‘Bit of a Stretch’  “My thoughts were that the valuation looked a bit of a
stretch,” Campbell said. A market capitalization of 1.5 billion
pounds would be a multiple of 28 times adjusted Ebitda, which
would look “very, very expensive,” he said.  Betfair will add another revenue stream in the fourth
quarter of this year with Lmax Ltd., an online retail financial
trading facility of which the company owns 73.5 percent. Lmax,
which is 12.5 percent owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .,
received Financial Services Authority authorization in July.  Betfair’s 14 biggest shareholders own about three-quarters
of the shares. A group of around 600 others, representing 25
percent of the stock, have the option to sell their shares at
the time of listing. The top 10 shareholders will remain with
the company beyond the initial public offering, Betfair said.  Potential Expansion  Chief Financial Officer  Stephen Morana  said the company
doesn’t need to raise money to fund its growth. Betfair has
identified Europe and Australia as areas for potential expansion
and sees “development opportunities” in some of largest gaming
markets such as the U.S., India and China.  Betfair provides a medium for bettors to wager between
themselves online, rather than with a bookmaker. The company
receives commissions on all winning bets, usually of 2 percent
to 5 percent.  So-called adjusted earnings before interest, tax
depreciation and amortization fell to 62.2 million pounds last
year from 74.8 million pounds a year earlier, the company said
today. Net income dropped to 15.1 million pounds from 38.8
million pounds.  Also today,  Sportingbet Plc , the U.K. Internet gambling
company that sponsors English soccer’s Wolverhampton Wanderers,
said it reached a non-prosecution agreement over its Internet
gaming operations in the U.S. between 1998 and 2006.  “It’s helpful for investors that there’s another online
listed gaming company,” Sportingbet Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew McIver  said of Betfair in a telephone interview. “It
gives the sector more size, more for investors at look at.”  Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley  are acting as joint
sponsors and bookrunners for Betfair’s offering. Barclays
Capital and Numis Securities are co-lead managers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  