-- BHP's $40 Billion Offer for Potash Corp. May Not Proceed, Citigroup Says
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-09-21T13:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/bhp-billiton-s-offer-for-potash-may-not-proceed-over-price-citigroup-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40 billion
offer for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  may not proceed
because the bidder is unlikely to overpay and there’s little
chance that a competitor may emerge, Citigroup Inc. said.  BHP  stock  is factoring in a bid of about $145 a share, $15
above the current offer, Citigroup analysts led by London-based
 Heath Jansen  wrote in a report dated yesterday. Potash Corp.
holders are unlikely to sell unless the bid is raised, they
said.  Potash Corp. , the world’s biggest producer of the crop
nutrient, rejected last month’s offer from Melbourne-based  BHP ,
the largest mining company, and said it was seeking other bids.
Marius Kloppers, BHP’s chief executive officer, will meet with
Canadian lawmakers tomorrow to discuss the bid amid calls for a
review of the transaction.  “The probability of a white knight or of BHP overpaying is
low, in our view, hence we see a risk that the deal may not
proceed,” the Citigroup analysts wrote.  BHP may need to offer $150 a share to win control of
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based Potash Corp., Credit Suisse Group
AG analysts said Sept. 3. A takeover at $130 a share would boost
profit starting in the first year, while a $155 bid would only
add to earnings per share in the third year, they said.  China is near a decision on a competing bid, the Globe and
Mail reported yesterday, citing people familiar with the
situation. State-owned Sinochem Group, the country’s biggest
fertilizer trader, has proposed paying as much as $60 billion,
while China Blue Chemical Ltd., a division of China National
Offshore Oil Corp., is another contender, the paper reported.  A spokesman for China’s Ministry of Commerce said last week
the ministry hadn’t received any applications for Chinese bids.
The government “will support, encourage,” companies that want
to venture overseas as part of its general policy, spokesman Yao
Jian said in Beijing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 