-- BHP Hires Canada Prime Minister Advisers for Potash
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-09-22T12:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/bhp-billiton-hires-canada-prime-minister-advisers-to-lobby-for-potash-bid.html
BHP Billiton Ltd.  hired advisers to
three Canadian prime ministers to lobby for its $40 billion
hostile bid for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc .  Michael Coates , an adviser to Prime Minister  Stephen Harper 
in the last three election campaigns, registered for BHP,
according to the  website  of the country’s lobbyist registry.
 William Pristanski , an aide in the 1980s to former Conservative
leader  Brian Mulroney , and  Bruce Hartley , former assistant to
the Liberals’  Jean Chretien , also registered on behalf of BHP.  BHP may face competition for the world’s largest fertilizer
maker from China, with Sinochem Group hiring Deutsche Bank AG
and Citigroup Inc. to assess ways to disrupt the bid, the
Financial Times said today. Canadian opposition lawmakers have
called on the government to set conditions on any foreign
acquisition of the Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company.  “I’m obviously anxious to understand completely and fully
the type of proposal they are making,”  Ralph Goodale , deputy
leader of the main opposition Liberal Party and his party’s only
legislator from Saskatchewan, said in a telephone interview.
“They have an extensive public outreach and communications
campaign under way in Saskatchewan.”  BHP, based in Melbourne, had no active lobbyists registered
on its behalf until last month. Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  is scheduled to be in Ottawa for meetings with
lawmakers today.  China has also indicated its approval for Sinochem to
assess ways to disrupt BHP’s offer, the Financial Times cited
one unidentified person as saying. Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China Ltd. may also be part of the group, the report said.  ‘Watching’ Bid  Sinochem, China’s largest fertilizer trader, said in August
it’s “closely watching” the bid. Joining the contest may
indicate China’s desire to stop BHP from controlling more
supplies to the world’s biggest consumer of commodities after
years of price tensions over iron ore.  Executives at Sinochem couldn’t be reached for comment
today as China is closed for a national holiday.  Goodale, one of the Liberal lawmakers meeting Kloppers,
said his main concern is about the need to maintain the
province’s marketing strategy for potash.  Government officials in Saskatchewan, including Energy and
Resources Minister  Bill Boyd , have said they are concerned that
an acquirer may break up the fertilizer marketing company
Canpotex, which may lead to lower prices for potash exports.
Canpotex is jointly owned by Potash Corp., the largest producer
of its namesake fertilizer,  Mosaic Co.  and  Agrium Inc.   Potash Corp. dropped 1.3 percent to C$150.55 in trading
yesterday. It’s trading 16 percent above BHP’s offer of $130 a
share. BHP fell 3 cents to A$38.69 at 10:56 a.m. in Sydney.  Kloppers Meetings  Kloppers is scheduled to meet New Democratic Party Deputy
Leader  Thomas Mulcair  today, according to Marc-Andre Viau, a
party spokesman. The Liberal lawmakers will meet the CEO later
in the day, Goodale said.  Industry Minister  Tony Clement  told reporters he has no
plans to meet Kloppers this week.  Andrew MacDougall , a spokesman
for the prime minister, said the leader’s office doesn’t comment
on Harper’s meetings with people who are not politicians.  Asked by Layton in Parliament yesterday about the proposed
purchase, Harper said there are laws in place to review foreign
acquisitions.  “This government’s position has not been to give a blank
check to foreign takeovers,” Harper told lawmakers. “There is
a law in place.”  BHP has said that should it acquire Potash Corp. it would
make Saskatchewan home to its head office for potash operations,
continue developing its Jansen potash project in the province,
maintain current employment levels and propose a Canadian
nominee for election to its board.  Deadline Extended  BHP extended the deadline for acceptance of its bid to
11:59 p.m. Eastern Time on Nov. 18 to allow time for the
completion of the regulatory review.  Amanda Buckley , a BHP
spokeswoman, declined to comment on any meetings Kloppers may
have with lawmakers.  Harper said yesterday that he’s spoken to Saskatchewan
Premier  Brad Wall  and will “examine” the provincial leader’s
concern as the federal government does its review. Wall told
reporters yesterday he isn’t convinced a takeover of Potash
Corp. is good for the province.  The Lobbyists  Coates , CEO of consulting firm Hill & Knowlton Canada, was
leader of Harper’s debate preparation team in the last three
elections, according to his biography on the firm’s website.
 Pristanski  is a principal at Ottawa-based consulting firm
Prospectus Associates, while  Hartley  is a partner there.  Potash Corp. has hired Brian  Klunder  and John  Capobianco  of
consulting firm Fleishman-Hillard, and Lawson  Hunter  of law firm
Stikeman Elliott LLP as lobbyists.  Foreign takeovers of major Canadian companies are
automatically reviewed in Canada under the Investment Canada
Act. Under the act, the government can block any transaction if
it finds insufficient “net benefits” to the country, based on
such factors as employment and productivity.  In the past 25 years, Canada has only formally rejected one
takeover offer, Alliant Techsystems Inc.’s bid for MacDonald
Dettwiler & Associates Ltd.’s space business in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 