-- Bill Clinton Says Aid for Women Key to Fighting Global Poverty
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   L i s a   K a s s e n a a r
-- 2010-09-21T19:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/bill-clinton-says-aid-for-women-key-to-fighting-global-poverty.html
Former U.S. President  Bill Clinton 
said his annual conference to link philanthropists with the
fight against global poverty is focused on women because they’re
not considered equal to men in many parts of the world.  There are still places where women are seen as “part human
and part property,” Clinton said at the opening session of the
Clinton Global Initiative’s meeting in Manhattan. “Is there a
widespread belief, deep down inside, that men should have more
rights than women? It’s worth thinking about.”  Clinton said that, by the end of this session, the global
initiative will have collected over its five-year history 1,946
pledges worth more than $63 billion.  The former president announced a plan by the Stamford,
Connecticut-based aid group  AmeriCares  to build a safe haven for
1,000 adolescent girls in earthquake-ravaged Haiti to protect
them from sexual assault.  Clean drinking water, a leading cause of disease and death
among mothers and small children, will be a major focus of this
year’s meeting along with help for Haiti, Pakistan and the U.S.
Gulf Coast.  Procter & Gamble Co.  Chief Executive Officer  Bob McDonald 
said the Cincinnati-based consumer-products company will
distribute 2 billion packets of a water purification product
called “Pur” free in developing countries. Clinton said the
packets would save at least one life every hour.  Business and Philanthropy  “We think it’s good business as well as good
philanthropy,” McDonald said. “Consumers around the world
today want to know what they are buying into when they spend
dollars to buy our products.”  Hillary Clinton , the U.S. secretary of state, spoke on
improving the status of women and girls in developing nations,
seen as a key to reducing poverty and promoting economic growth.
She also said the U.S. will contribute more than $50 million
over five years in a program to provide cleaner-burning
cookstoves to developing countries.  “It all comes down to women,” said  Melinda Gates , who
started the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation with her husband,
 Microsoft Corp.  founder  Bill Gates . “You have to put the power
in their hands” to help break the cycle of maternal deaths, a
key factor keeping women in poverty in the developing world.  The Gates foundation has been focusing on safer childbirth
in countries including Nigeria, India and Ethiopia. About
350,000 women die in childbirth each year.  Eric Schmidt ,  Google Inc. ’s CEO, pledged $1 million to help
Pakistan recover from floods that devastated the country,
including a Web-based computer application that helps rescuers
find people missing in natural disasters.  Solar Power  NRG Energy Inc. , of Princeton, New Jersey, pledged $1
million to install solar power for water pumps, schools and
street lighting in the town of Boucan Carre in Haiti.  Joining Clinton onstage at a celebrity-studded meeting in a
New York hotel ballroom, former Irish President  Mary Robinson 
spoke about a program to help rag pickers, mostly women and
children who scavenge the garbage dumps of the world’s poorest
cities, become “waste entrepreneurs.”  “The closest thing to a silver bullet in the world in most
countries is closing all the landfills in all the cities,”
Clinton said. Until then, he said it’s important to help people
learn how to earn a living from the landfills and help them
become sources of environmentally clean income.  “Almost every landfill is a gold mine, which is why so many
poor people scavenge in them,” he said.  Many of the initiatives are focused on Haiti, where Clinton
was named a special envoy by the United Nations to head efforts
to raise money for the country’s reconstruction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Kassenaar  in New York at 
 lkassenaar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  