-- Billionaire Munger Offers Us a False Choice: Alice Schroeder
-- Alice Schroeder
-- 2010-09-21T01:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/billionaire-munger-offers-us-a-false-choice-alice-schroeder.html

          
          
             You’ve gotta love a man who speaks
his mind, even when he’s wrong.  
 We “shouldn’t be bitching about a little bailout” of the
banks,  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Vice Chairman Charles Munger told
students at the  University of Michigan  on Sept. 14.  
 That’s a strong statement, but Munger is one of those
refreshing few who can be counted on to deliver his thoughts
uncensored in words unminced.  
 Munger feels the bank bailouts were “required to save your
civilization.” He suggested that burdening the economy with
 bank failures  would have results similar to the economic
collapse in  Germany  after World War I and led to the rise of
 Adolf Hitler . Meanwhile, “the culture dies” if you bail out
individuals. People in economic distress should “suck it up and
cope.”  
 Apart from what some might consider his tasteless
hyperbole, the problem is the false dichotomy it presents. The
choice wasn’t between the bailout or no bailout. It was between
the bailout we financed, which didn’t resemble capitalism in any
known form, and a bailout more intelligently executed.  
 No one made us bail out shareholders along with the banks’
bondholders. We didn’t have to preserve institutions that are
still too big to fail in any meaningful sense of the term. We
could have propped them up temporarily, then recapitalized them
as smaller, more manageable entities, with former equity holders
assuming the cost of the risk they assumed.  
 We missed the chance to reduce systemic risk by
comprehensively rewriting regulation for the financial-services
industry. Instead of withdrawing government guarantees, we
increased them. So there are plenty of reasons to complain about
the bailouts.  
 Munger in Chief  
 To give him credit, I’m pretty sure if we gave Munger
unfettered dictatorial power, he would have structured the
bailouts more intelligently than what actually took place. In
his remarks, he wasn’t defending the form of the bailouts, only
their size. If anything, “it should have been bigger,” he
said.  
 Munger’s reference to a massive bailout needed to ward off
another Germany-style hyperinflation also wasn’t necessarily
hyperbolic. It echoed his partner, Berkshire Chief Executive
Officer Warren Buffett, whose ongoing theme is that we’ve
experienced an “economic  Pearl Harbor .”  
 Both of these men look at the situation as impersonal
oddsmakers. By this logic, if the damage from too much stimulus
is tolerable, and the damage from too little stimulus is
intolerable, the expected value of the outcomes reveals that we
should run the lesser risk of overstimulating. This is throwing
people off the lifeboat to keep it from sinking.  
 Money Talks  
 In spite of this logic, people may wonder whether Munger’s
statements are influenced by Berkshire’s large holdings in  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  ($8.5 billion), the U.S.’s biggest home lender, as
well as its $5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs Group Inc. It
happens that Munger’s financial interests do line up with his
words.  
 If that’s not a coincidence, it’s probably because he puts
his money where his mouth is rather than the other way round. In
choosing sides between the opposing interests that inevitably
arise in commerce, Munger and Buffett identify with the lender,
not the borrower; with the bank, not the depositor; and that’s
how they invest.  
 It’s therefore not surprising that Munger focused on the
vital role that banks play in society when he said that people
should suck it up and cope. Maintaining the trust that binds
creditors and debtors is essential to the security of a culture.  
 Bad Incentives  
 What’s unfortunate about this concern about bad incentives
is that Munger didn’t extend it to qualify his support for the
bank bailouts and the tremendous moral hazard they created. It
may seem appropriate, in a Darwinian sense, to reward the
thrifty savers by securing their deposits while leaving feckless
borrowers to fend for themselves, until you consider that the
banks were the worst abettors of the feckless borrowers.  
 As for trust, financial institutions have so much leverage
with their customers these days that the relationship is rarely
based on reciprocal values. It’s inappropriate that the
requirement of trustworthiness should run in only one direction,
in favor of the bank.  
 Munger’s prescription for the foreclosed masses suggests
the result would be a form of justice that does us all a favor.
Bailing out homeowners would be “shoveling out money to people
who say ‘My life is a little harder than it used to be,’”
Munger said.  
 I’m all for self-reliance, and this perspective on
misfortune deserves some latitude, coming as it does from a man
who was raised during the Great Depression. I find it refreshing
that Munger speaks his mind and is fearless of being found
politically incorrect. In the end, though, coming from a
billionaire, “suck it up” veers a bit too close to “let them
eat cake.”  
 ( Alice Schroeder , author of “The Snowball:  Warren Buffett 
and the Business of Life,” is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Alice Schroeder at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        