-- Renewable Power Vote Could Come in U.S. Senate This Year, Bingaman Says
-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 2010-09-21T21:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/bingaman-says-renewable-power-bill-can-pass-senate-update1-.html
The U.S. Senate should take up
legislation after the November elections that would require
utilities to buy more electricity from renewable sources such as
wind turbines, Senator  Jeff Bingaman  said.  Bingaman, a New Mexico Democrat who introduced the
legislation today, told reporters in Washington he will
“develop support” for the bill and push for a vote “in the
lame-duck session when we come back after the election.”  Bingaman’s “renewable electricity standard” would require
utilities to obtain as much as 15 percent of their power from
low-pollution sources by 2021. The U.S. renewable energy sector
is a potential “job engine” and the national standard will
“fuel it,” said Senator  Sam Brownback , a Kansas Republican and
a cosponsor of the bill.  A renewable electricity standard requires utility companies
to produce or purchase some of their power from wind turbines,
solar panels and other sources that pollute less than plants
fueled with oil, coal and natural gas.  A credit, or certificate, is awarded for every megawatt-
hour generated from renewable sources. To comply with the
renewable standard, utilities have to surrender a target number
of credits each year. Companies with more credits than they need
can sell to those that are short.  Good Timing  Bingaman’s push to get a renewable mandate passed this year
“couldn’t come at a better time” as the U.S. economy struggles
to create jobs and recovers from the worst recession since the
1930s,  Denise Bode , chief executive officer of the American Wind
Energy Association, told reporters on a conference call.
“America needs jobs and more clean energy resources,” Bode
said.  Some of the targets can be met through energy-saving
measures rather than purchases of renewable electricity or
credits, according to a summary of the bill. Utility companies
could also make an “alternative compliance payment” of $21 for
every megawatt-hour they fall short of their renewable target,
according to the summary.  Investment in renewable energy sources has the potential to
“reinvigorate” the U.S. manufacturing sector, Lisa Jacobson,
president of the Business Council for Sustainable Energy, said
in an e-mail. Without a U.S. mandate to bolster demand for
cleaner power sources, renewable energy investors are “sitting
on the sidelines,” Jacobson said.  Last year, the U.S. House passed a renewable electricity
standard as part of a bigger bill to cap carbon dioxide and
other greenhouse gases scientists have linked to climate change.
The House bill, which set a renewable standard of 20 percent by
2020, stalled in the Senate.  Energy Legislation  In July, Senate Democrats considered adding a renewable
standard of 15 percent by 2021 to energy legislation that
responded to the  BP Plc  oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. The
renewable standard was dropped from the oil-spill bill, which
failed to get a vote before lawmakers left Washington in early
August for a monthlong break.  The renewable electricity standard, or RES, has “near-zero
odds” of becoming law this year, partly because of “partisan
rancor” before November’s congressional elections,  Kevin Book ,
managing director at ClearView Energy Partners LLC, a
Washington-based policy analysis company, said in a report
today.  It won’t be any easier for a national renewable mandate to
pass the Senate than the House climate-change bill, which would
limit greenhouse gases with a cap-and-trade system,  George Voinovich , an Ohio Republican, told reporters. “You’re going to
have as much controversy about the RES as you had over cap and
trade,” Voinovich said.  Brownback disputed that prediction and said the renewable
power proposal should attract “strong bipartisan support”
because “it’s not cap and trade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  