-- BOE Must Raise Rate Slowly as U.K. Avoids Slump, Sentance Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-09-22T09:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/boe-must-raise-rate-slowly-as-u-k-avoids-double-dip-slump-sentance-says.html
Bank of England policy maker  Andrew Sentance  reiterated that the central bank should raise its
benchmark interest rate “slowly” to combat inflation as the
British and world economies avoid a double-dip recession.  The bank needs to “gradually move interest rates up in a
slow way which will not destabilize business confidence,”
Sentance said in an interview on Sky News television yesterday.
“One of the issues I would highlight is we haven’t seen the
same dampening effect on inflation that we’ve seen in previous
recessions.”  Sentance has argued for an interest-rate increase to tame
 inflation , which unexpectedly exceeded the government’s 3
percent limit in August. Minutes of the Sept. 9 meeting,
released today, showed policy makers overruled his call for
higher rates for a fourth month as some officials said the
probability the economy will need more stimulus has risen.  “We have to distinguish between unevenness of the rate of
growth which we often get at this stage of the economic cycle
and a genuine double-dip recession,” he said. “Certainly in
the case of the U.K., I see that not as the main scenario, or
globally as the main scenario.”  While Britain and other economies have seen “some
unevenness in growth,” the U.K. is still on a “recovery
track” aided by the pound being at “a competitive level,”
Sentance said.  “Some of the indicators that I look at, which are based on
what’s happening in business, do show that the climate has
changed quite significantly,” he said.  Rate Decisions  The central bank has kept its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent since March last year and maintained
its emergency bond purchase program at 200 billion pounds ($311
billion) since February.  “In the middle of last year, we really worried about the
immediate effects of the financial crisis and the fact the
economy was contracting and we had expected inflation to fall
and even possibly turn into deflation,” he said. “What we’ve
seen since then is the beginnings of a recovery, it’s a bit
uneven, and we have seen inflation running above target.”  Sentance said “there is clearly a lot of uncertainty
around and there’s some headwinds,” like the government’s
planned budget squeeze, the largest since World War II.  Budget Effect  “It will have some impact on demand, but private-sector
demand is a much bigger component of our economy than the
government demand,” Sentance said, referring to the proposed
budget measures. However, “over a period of time, I would
expect unemployment to come down over the recovery even though
the government is rebalancing. There is sufficient vitality in
the private sector to take up the slack.”  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said on Aug. 17 that
the bank’s central view is that inflation will be “close to, or
a little below” the 2 percent target in the medium term. Policy
maker  David Miles  said last week that inflation will likely be
volatile in the coming months.  “You’ll have to see the minutes of the Monetary Policy
Committee come out tomorrow,” Sentance said in response to a
question on whether anyone else on the committee agreed with his
call for an interest rate increase. “I don’t want to pre-empt
that, but a lot of the arguments I’m making are reflected in
those minutes and obviously there’s a very significant debate
going on here.”  “I certainly find that there is a respect for my views on
the Monetary Policy Committee and indeed in the outside world as
well,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  