-- Basel Rules Mustn’t Be ‘Chipped Away,’ Bailey Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-09-22T08:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/boe-s-bailey-says-basel-iii-rules-mustn-t-be-chipped-away-.html
Bank of England Chief Cashier
Andrew Bailey said the finance industry can’t be allowed to
dilute the new Basel III regulations requiring banks to build up
capital buffers.  “Financial services is an industry where arbitraging rules
and regulations is habitual, even addictive,” Bailey said at an
event in  London  yesterday. The rules must not “be chipped away
under the banner of arbitrage masquerading as innovation,” he
said. “If the capital buffers are in future genuinely loss-
bearing capital with no tricky wrinkles, and we keep to this
outcome, we have taken a good step forward.”  Bailey said that officials should respect the spirit of new
regulation as they moderate “dangerous” business models while
supporting innovation. He will become deputy chief executive of
the Prudential Regulation Authority, an agency of the central
bank being created to prevent future financial crises.  “We have to build the case that the industry will serve
the needs and interest of the public,” Bailey said. “We cannot
have attitudes which put short-term gain first on the basis that
the stability of the financial system can be tomorrow’s
objective, for the next person.”  The Basel III rules designed by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision will more than double banks’ capital
requirements while giving them as many as eight years to comply
in full. The European Banking Federation, a lobbying group,
warned earlier this month that tighter rules may limit lending.  ‘Memories Fade’  Nout Wellink, chairman of the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision, told an international meeting of bank supervisors
in  Singapore  today that the rules need to keep pace with
financial innovation.  “We must remember that memories fade quickly,” he said in
a speech. “Regardless of how tough the new standards are and
how we expect them to increase the resilience of banks and
banking systems, they must be effectively implemented and
enforced.”  Adair Turner, chairman of the U.K. Financial Services
Authority, said he would have set higher capital ratios if he’d
drafted the new Basel III regulations.  “If we were philosopher kings designing a banking system
entirely anew for a greenfield economy, should we have set still
higher capital ratios than in the Basel III regime? Yes, I
believe we should,” Turner said at the same event.  Public Interest  The public interest in financial stability should be
defined as something more than the idea that “you certainly
know it when it isn’t there,” Bailey said. It should include
public confidence in the stability of soundness of banks in the
absence of an implicit state guarantee of support for failed
institutions, he said.  A stable financial system should allow firms to fail
regardless of their size or importance, and creating such a
system will require regulators to have the appropriate tools to
act, Bailey said. He said that without these tools, lenders
won’t have the right incentive to manage their own risks.  “We will not truly have solved the too-big-or-important-
to-fail-problem, and thus the public money problem, until we
have tools at our disposal which enable us to resolve large
institutions if they get into trouble,” he said. “This will
create the right incentive for risk management.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  