-- BofA’s Moynihan Puts Ex-Colleagues in Strategic Posts
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-09-21T16:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/bofa-chief-names-ex-fleet-comrades-laughlin-lyons-mogenson-to-top-roles.html
  Bank of America Corp . Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , who has promised to change
the lender’s culture while retaining most of its senior
leadership, has installed three former colleagues at FleetBoston
Financial Inc. at influential posts.  Moynihan hired former Fleet strategy head Terry Laughlin as
a senior executive at the loss-plagued Countrywide unit. He
recruited hedge-fund manager Mike Lyons as a strategy and
planning executive to help shrink the bank’s $2.2 trillion
balance sheet. Moynihan also promoted Lauren Mogensen to deputy
general counsel and corporate secretary, where she intersects
with Moynihan and the bank’s board.  Each of the three, none of whom report directly to
Moynihan, have a longer history of working with him than with
their supervisors. They were part of the team that helped then-
Fleet CEO Terry Murray expand into the seventh-largest U.S.
lender before Bank of America bought it for $48 billion in 2004.  “Those people are there to tell Brian what is going on and
to make sure he doesn’t get stabbed in the back,” said  Tony Plath , a finance professor at the University of  North Carolina 
at  Charlotte . “Having your loyalists installed at the key
businesses is part of the culture of banks.”  Shareholder Returns  Moynihan, 50, is emphasizing execution instead of expansion
at the Charlotte-based bank, and promised to focus on
shareholder returns instead of gross earnings after his
predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis , bought the largest U.S. credit-
card, mortgage and securities brokerage firms between 2006 and
2009.  Bank of America faces “one of the biggest challenges any
merger or acquisition team has had to deal with,” said Page
West, a professor of strategy and entrepreneurship at  Wake
Forest University Schools of Business . “Moynihan needs to have
confidence in the people doing the work.”  The bank is firing as many as 400 employees in its global
banking and markets division after a management review, a person
briefed on the matter said yesterday.  “We’ve been changing the culture in our business,”
Moynihan said at a Sept. 14 investor conference. “The franchise
build is over for Bank of America. Now it’s just time to
operate.”  Cost-Cutting  The bank is pruning costs more aggressively than publicly
disclosed,  Betsy Graseck , an analyst at Morgan Stanley who rates
the stock “overweight,” said in a Bloomberg TV interview on
Sept. 17. “There’s a distinct strategy within each of the
organizations within Bank of America to be improving on the
expense ratio,” she said.  Almost all the senior executives from credit-card issuer
MBNA Corp. and home-lender Countrywide quit or were replaced by
veteran Bank of America managers before Moynihan became CEO.
Credit cards and home loan businesses contributed more than $20
billion of losses since 2008 at Bank of America as U.S. housing
prices plummeted and the U.S. jobless rate rose as high as 10.1
percent.  Of the 11 executives who report directly to Moynihan, just
three --  Thomas Montag ,  Sallie Krawcheck  and Charles Noski --
have been at the bank less than five years. Montag, who spent
more than two decades at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., joined
Merrill Lynch & Co. under former colleague  John Thain  before
Bank of America bought the securities firm last year. Krawcheck
joined the Merrill unit from Citigroup Inc. Noski, the bank’s
chief financial officer, is a former CFO at Northrop Grumman
Corp.  Maverick Capital  The group of 11 includes just one person who worked with
Moynihan at Fleet, Chief Strategy Officer Anne Finucane. She
helps set the bank’s direction on consumer and public policies,
environmental efforts, philanthropy and relations with
regulators and politicians. Her work included advising Moynihan
on last December’s repayment of the bank’s $45 billion in U.S.
rescue funds and its handling of regulatory reform.  Mogensen joined FleetBoston in 2001 from Edwards Angell
Palmer & Dodge, the Boston law firm where Moynihan worked before
he came to Fleet in 1993. She worked in compliance, consumer and
wealth management posts before joining the general counsel’s
office.  Lyons worked under Moynihan at Fleet for two years in the
1990s before moving to Morgan Stanley. In 1995, he joined
Maverick Capital, a  New York  hedge fund that has averaged a 14
percent annual return since its inception that year. He’s
advising what assets and businesses to sell as part of
Moynihan’s pledge to build a less complex company with a
“fortress balance sheet.”  ‘Eye for Talent’  Before joining Bank of America in August, Laughlin, 55, was
CEO of OneWest Bank, the successor to IndyMac Bancorp., which
was seized by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in 2008. His
job includes monitoring relations with mortgage investors who
are demanding that Bank of America repurchase billions of
dollars of soured mortgages.  Laughlin gave up his CEO post because he was intrigued by
the challenge at Bank of America and wanted to work with
Moynihan again, said William Mutterperl, an attorney at Reed
Smith LLC in New York who was Fleet’s general counsel from 1985
to 2001.  Lyons and Laughlin “are very strong on the strategic
planning side,” Mutterperl said. “Brian has an excellent eye
for talent and he’s surrounding himself with some of the best
people from the old Fleet.” 