-- Bomb Plot Defendant Told Informant He Was `Struggling,' Unsure of Future
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-09-21T22:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/bomb-plot-defendant-told-informant-he-was-struggling-unsure-of-future.html
The man accused of leading a plot
to bomb New York synagogues told an undercover informant less
than two months before his arrest that he was “struggling” and
needed time to think about the plan.  “I don’t know what I’m going to do with my life right
now,” defendant James Cromitie said today in New York in a
video played on the third day of the cross-examination of the
informant by defense attorney  Vincent Briccetti . “I’m
struggling and I don’t have to. I’m trying to survive, that’s
all. I really don’t have to do nothing crazy as of yet.”  Defense lawyers showed excerpts of videos filmed at a house
in Newburgh, New York, on April 7, 2009, where Cromitie, 44, who
is accused of leading the operation, told the informant that he
needed to find a way to make money.  The video was taken by the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
which set up the house for recording and photographing. It
wasn’t presented as evidence by prosecutors.  Briccetti and his fellow defense attorneys portray Cromitie
and his three co-defendants as poor victims of entrapment by the
FBI informant, Shahed Hussain. The four were lured into a
terrorist plot with meals from Denny’s, coffee from Dunkin’
Donuts and offers of cars and cash, the lawyers say.  The meeting was the first in more than a month between
Cromitie and Hussain, who was posing as a member of the
Pakistan-based terror organization  Jaish-e-Mohammed .  ‘Life on the Line’  On the recording, Hussain admonishes Cromitie for avoiding
his calls, saying that he put his “life on the line.” By the
end of the conversation, Cromitie agrees to look at synagogues
with the informant.  “You weren’t going to take no for an answer, were you?”
Briccetti asked Hussain.  “He could have walked away, sir,” Hussain said.  The trial of Cromitie, David Williams, 29, Onta Williams,
34, and Laguerre Payen, 28, all of Newburgh, began Aug. 23
before U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon . The Williams
defendants aren’t related.  McMahon declined to rule today on a defense request for her
to order prosecutors to investigate and correct “suspected
perjury” by Hussain, who they accuse in court documents of
making “blatantly contradictory and often preposterous
statements” about his immigration status, his finances and
“his very identity.” The judge said that she may hold a
hearing on the request in the future.  Judge ‘Skeptical’  “I can tell you that I am skeptical of some things he has
said, but I am not the trier of facts,” McMahon said.  The men are accused of plotting to bomb a synagogue and
Jewish community center in the Bronx section of New York City
and fire heat-seeking missiles at military planes at Stewart
International Airport in Newburgh.  They were arrested in a FBI operation on May 20, 2009, in
the Riverdale section of the Bronx.  The charges include conspiracy and attempted use of weapons
of mass destruction in the U.S. They face as long as life in
prison if convicted of the most serious charges.  The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-00558, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 