-- Boston Generating's Debt Valued at 96.75 Cents in Final Swaps Auction
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-09-21T19:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/boston-generating-s-debt-valued-at-96-75-cents-in-final-swaps-auction.html
Credit-default swaps traders set a
value of 96.75 cents on the dollar to settle contracts
protecting $1.45 billion of loans sold by bankrupt Boston
Generating LLC.  The price, the result of an auction by nine dealers
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Bank of America Corp.,
means sellers of swaps on Boston Generating will pay 3.25 cents
on the dollar to buyers of protection to settle the contracts,
according to data posted on a  website  run by auction
administrators Markit Group Ltd. and Creditex Group Inc.  The final price rose from an initial value of 95.875 cents
on the dollar earlier today after the first round of the
auction. Dealers had reported a net demand to buy $5 million of
the loans and matched that with sell orders from the banks and
their clients, according to the auction website.  Boston Generating triggered payouts on the contracts after
the unit of New York-based US Power Generating Co. filed for
bankruptcy. The Aug. 18 filing by the Charleston, Massachusetts-
based unit of EBG Holdings LLC, itself a division of New York-
based  U.S. Power Generating Co. , was a so-called credit event,
New York-based  International Swaps and Derivatives Association 
said on its website.  Credit Event  Boston Generating is a member of all six series of the LCDX
Index, which are linked to the senior secured loans of as many
as 100 companies. A net total of $11.9 billion of the contracts
were outstanding as of Sept. 10, according to the Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a central registry for the
market.  Banks, hedge funds, insurance companies and other asset
managers use credit-default swaps to hedge against losses or to
speculate on the creditworthiness of companies, countries or
other borrowers. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  