-- Boston Generating Debt Contracts Initially Set at 95.9 Cents in Auction
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-09-21T16:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/boston-generating-debt-contracts-initially-set-at-95-9-cents-in-auction.html
Credit-default swaps traders
settling contracts protecting debt sold by bankrupt Boston
Generating LLC set an initial value of 95.875 cents on the
dollar for the loans.  The price, set by initial bidding by nine dealers including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Bank of America Corp., means
sellers of swaps on Boston Generating would pay 4.125 cents on
the dollar to buyers who purchased the debt protection,
according to data posted on a  website  run by auction
administrators Markit Group Ltd. and Creditex Group Inc.  Boston Generating triggered payouts on the contracts after
the unit of New York-based US Power Generating Co. filed for
bankruptcy. The Aug. 18 filing by the unit of EBG Holdings LLC,
itself a division of New York-based  U.S. Power Generating Co. ,
was a so-called credit event, New York-based  International Swaps
and Derivatives Association  said on its website.  A final price for $1.45 billion of Charleston,
Massachusetts-based Boston Generating loans  eligible  to be sold
in the credit swaps auction will be determined during a second
round at 2 p.m. New York time, in which a net demand to buy $5
million of the debt will be matched with orders from the dealers
and their clients, according to Markit and Creditex.  Credit Event  Boston Generating is a member of all six series of the LCDX
Index, which are linked to the senior secured loans of as many
as 100 companies. A net $11.9 billion of the contracts were
outstanding as of Sept. 10, according to the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp., which runs a central registry for the market.  Banks, hedge funds, insurance companies and other asset
managers use credit-default swaps to hedge against losses or to
speculate on the creditworthiness of companies, countries or
other borrowers. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  