-- Bovespa Index Retreats on Inflation Concern, Commodity Decline
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-09-21T20:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/bovespa-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-as-crude-oil-price-drops-real-rises.html
Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index fell
for a third time in four days as commodity prices retreated and
quicker-than-forecast inflation spurred speculation policy
makers will raise borrowing costs to cool the economy.  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA , the iron-ore producer
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , slipped as
metals prices retreated.  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos &
Participacoes  led a drop for homebuilders after consumer prices
rose through mid-September, ending a two-month period of
deflation.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, fell the most in a week as crude tumbled.  The  Bovespa  index fell 0.7 percent to 67,719.13. Forty-five
stocks fell on the index while 22 rose. The  BM&FBovespa Small
Cap index  slipped 0.4 percent to 1,336.99. The real strengthened
1.2 percent to 1.7122 per dollar.  “It’s a month of pressure, a period of slightly higher
inflation,” said  Alvaro Bandeira , director of Rio de Janeiro-
based Agora Corretora, Brazil’s second-biggest brokerage. “I
don’t think it’s a trend.”  Brazil’s consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15 index
rose 0.31 percent through mid-September, the statistics agency
said. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had expected prices to
rise 0.24 percent over mid-August, according to the median
forecast of 35 analysts.  Oil Falls  Oil fell to the lowest level this month before a government
report that may show U.S. refineries operated at their lowest
rate in five months, signaling less demand for crude to process
into fuels.  PDG Realty declined 2.6 percent to 19.75 reais, pushing the
 BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index  down 1.2 percent. MMX decreased 2
percent to 13.04 reais. Petrobras dropped 2.8 percent to 26.35
reais.  “We continue to have opposite growth expectations for
Brazil and the world,”  Carlos Constantini , a strategist at Itau
Unibanco Holding SA, wrote in a note to clients. “Brazil’s
domestic consumer market continues to flourish due to the
powerful combination of low unemployment rates, rising income
and the formalization of the economy.”  The U.S. has fallen behind emerging markets in Brazil,
China and India as the preferred place to invest, a Bloomberg
survey shows, though the world’s largest economy still ranks
highest of all major developed countries.  The  Bovespa  gained the most in a week yesterday after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the measure will rally to a record
this year, and economists increased forecasts for economic
growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  