-- Brazil's Consumer Prices Rose Faster-Than-Expected, Pushing Yields Higher
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-09-21T15:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/brazil-s-consumer-prices-rise-faster-than-expected-0-31-through-mid-month.html
Brazilian  inflation  quickened more
than expected through mid-September, boosting expectations that
the central bank will raise interest rates in the first half of
2011. Yields rose.  Consumer prices  as measured by the IPCA-15 index increased
0.31 percent through mid-September, the  statistics agency  said.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expected prices to rise 0.24
percent from mid-August, according to the median forecast of 35
analysts. The index fell in July and August.  Economists surveyed weekly by the central bank have pushed
up their 2010 and 2011 inflation forecasts this month on
expectations that rising global commodity prices coupled with
sustained domestic demand will pressure consumer prices. Food
prices, which rose for the first time since May, were behind the
greater-than-expected rise of the headline figure, said  Andre Perfeito , an economist at Gradual Investimentos.  “If this move continues, the central bank will be called
to manage expectations,” said Perfeito in a phone interview.
“The bank may either act now, leaving room for rate cuts for
the next government, or do nothing and leave it to the next
board the chance to show their commitment to fight inflation.”  In the overnight interest-rate futures market, the yield on
the contract due in January 2012, the second-most traded on Sao
Paulo’s BM&F exchange, rose three basis points to 11.54 percent
after rising as much as six basis points earlier. The real rose
0.2 percent to 1.7291 per dollar at 11:03 a.m. New York time.  Expectations  Policy makers on Sept. 1 kept interest rates unchanged at
10.75 percent, after raising the Selic a total of 2 percentage
points at their previous three meetings to prevent Latin
America’s biggest economy from overheating.  Analysts in a weekly central bank survey forecast rate
increases will resume in March, and the Selic will rise to 11.75
percent by June.  Food prices, led by a 3.4 percent increase in meat prices,
jumped 0.3 percent through mid-September, after falling 0.8
percent and 0.68 percent in the two previous IPCA-15 readings.
Dry weather in Brazil’s crop producing region is pressuring food
prices, Perfeito said.  Annual  inflation  accelerated to 4.57 percent, above the
bank’s 4.5 percent target, the report said.  Policy makers will need to raise the benchmark rate by 1.5
percentage point in the first half of 2010 to deliver inflation
on target next year, Perfeito said.  Inflation expectations are rising in Brazil. Analysts
expect consumer prices to rise 4.95 percent in 2011, up from a
week earlier forecast of 4.90 percent, according to the median
forecast in the central bank survey of about 100 economists
published yesterday.  Economists also raised their 2010 inflation forecast to
5.01 percent, from 4.97 percent a week earlier.  A strong labor market and steady real income growth
“should contribute to keep inflation projections rising in the
short term,”  Flavio Serrano , senior economist at Banco Espirito
Santo de Investimento, wrote in a note to clients.  To be sure, the global economic recovery and the real’s
appreciation may help contain prices in Brazil, leading policy
makers to adopt a wait-and-see stance to monitor how inflation
reacts, Perfeito said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net 
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  