-- Brazil Central Bank Buys $5.9 Billion in 12 Days to Help Stem Real's Gain
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-09-21T17:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/brazil-central-bank-buys-5-9-billion-in-12-days-to-help-stem-real-s-gain.html
Brazilian central bank President
 Henrique Meirelles  stepped up dollar purchases to the highest in
almost a year this month in a bid to temper gains in the real.  The central bank bought $5.9 billion in the first 12
businesses days of September,  Altamir Lopes , head of the bank’s
economic department, told reporters today. The purchases are the
biggest for the period since October 2009, when policy makers
bought $6.3 billion.  Efforts to keep a lid on the currency may get a boost after
the government on Sept. 17 authorized its 17.9 billion reais
($10.4 billion) sovereign wealth fund to buy an unlimited amount
of dollars with reais to supplement the central bank’s purchases
in the currency market. The fund hasn’t purchased dollars yet,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said today.  Brazil’s currency gained 0.5 percent to 1.7245 per U.S.
dollar at 1:11 p.m. New York time. Since the beginning of the
month, the real has strengthened 1.9 percent.  “The real isn’t appreciating because of speculation, but
based on economic fundamentals,” said  Andre Perfeito , an
economist at Sao Paulo-based brokerage Gradual Investimentos.
“Not even Japan’s central bank can prevent its currency from
gaining, let alone Brazil’s.”  Perfeito said currency traders in Brazil are being made
“nervous” by the strong language government officials are
using to express their discomfort with the appreciation of the
real. A stronger currency makes Brazilian exports more expensive
in dollar terms, cutting into profits at companies that rely on
overseas sales.  The real has gained 34 percent since the beginning of 2009,
the second-best performance among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  