-- Buenos Aires Lines Up First Overseas Bond Sale Since `07: Argentina Credit
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-09-21T21:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/buenos-aires-lines-up-first-overseas-bond-sale-since-07-argentina-credit.html
Argentina’s most populous province
is preparing a return to international bond markets to benefit
from the lowest borrowing costs in two years.  Buenos Aires province hired  Bank of America Corp.  and
Deutsche Bank AG to arrange investor meetings in Europe and the
U.S. this week as it plans to sell $500 million in debt,
according to people with knowledge of the matter, who declined
to be identified because they aren’t authorized to speak
publicly.  The offering would be the first for Buenos Aires in three
years and follows Cordoba province, IRSA Inversiones y
Representaciones SA and Pan American Energy LLC in selling bonds
abroad during the busiest year for Argentine issuers since 2007.
Buenos Aires yields are 10 percentage points above similar-
maturity U.S. Treasuries, which may help draw investors seeking
alternatives to lower returns in developed economies.  “Everyone is interested in yield,” said  David Spegel , the
New York-based head of emerging-market debt strategy at ING
Groep NV. “There’s certainly demand out there.”  Yields on the province’s bonds due in 2018 dropped to 12.2
percent, the lowest since March 2008, from 16 percent in
January, as the country’s fastest economic expansion since at
least 1995 buoys tax revenue, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Argentine companies and provinces have issued $1.03 billion
of bonds in international markets this year as President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  restructured $12.9 billion in
defaulted debt. Sales were $3.65 billion in 2007 and $465
million last year, Bloomberg data shows.  Rating Upgrade  Buenos Aires officials are meeting investors after the
province’s rating was raised one level by Standard & Poor’s last
week to B, five levels below investment grade. That followed
S&P’s Sept. 13 decision to raise the national government’s
credit rating for the second time in two months to the same
level, citing “improvements in the government’s financial
profile.”  “Now it’s a good time to come and take advantage of what
positive sentiment might be left for the credit, given that it
was revised upwards in line with the sovereign,” Spegel said.  A record 55-million metric ton soybean harvest and surging
auto exports to Brazil helped Argentina’s economy grow 11.8
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the fastest
since at least 1995. The economy will expand 9.2 percent this
year, up from a previous forecast of 6.5 percent, Toronto-based
RBC Capital Markets said in a report yesterday. The government
last week forecast growth of 8.9 percent this year.  $1.1 Billion  Buenos Aires’s budget authorizes it to sell $1.1 billion of
bonds this year, according to an Economy Ministry official in La
Plata, the provincial capital, who asked not to be named in
accordance with government policy. Investors may demand a yield
above 12 percent for notes maturing in more than seven years,
according to ING’s Spegel.  Argentine Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  told reporters June
23 that the national government has no fiscal need to sell debt
this year and that it would wait until yields fall below 10
percent before considering a sale.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentina dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 12 basis points to 672
today at 5:30 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index.  The yield on benchmark 7 percent securities due in 2015
increased 15 basis points to 9.99 percent, according to
Bloomberg market average pricing.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps was unchanged at 751,
according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy rose today 0.08 cent to 11.98 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The peso fell 0.1 percent to 3.9518 per
dollar.  Buenos Aires sold $400 million of 9.625 percent bonds due
in 2028 in April 2007, the last time the province tapped
international markets.  The province may be able to sell debt because Argentina is
the only place in Latin America and the Caribbean where
investors can get a 12 percent yield in dollar bonds apart from
Venezuela, said  Joe Kogan , the head of emerging markets strategy
at Scotia Capital Markets in New York.  Argentina’s debt restructuring “was a positive sign that
they were able to get new funding and maybe they wouldn’t
continue being such a renegade creditor that is in continuous
state of default,” Kogan said. “It made all foreign investors
a little more comfortable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  