-- Buffett's BYD Visit Comes as Sales Slide, Disputes Hurt Profits
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-22T10:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/buffett-s-byd-visit-comes-as-sales-slide-legal-disputes-cut-into-profits.html
When  Warren Buffett  visits Chinese
carmaker  BYD Co.  next week, he’ll find a company facing sliding
sales and legal disputes with the government and  Foxconn
International Holdings Ltd.   Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s  $232 million investment in
Shenzhen-based BYD grew more than 10-fold in little over a year
and was worth about $2.5 billion by October. That stake is now
 valued  at about $1.6 billion after BYD’s  shares  plunged 21
percent this year. Sales at the company, the fastest-growing
carmaker in China during 2009, fell 19 percent in August, while
rivals  Dongfeng Motor Group Co. ,  General Motors Co.  and  SAIC
Motor Corp.  each gained  at least  19 percent.  BYD Chairman  Wang Chuanfu  also may not deliver electric
cars to California this year as promised. The company’s 2010
share decline compares with a 0.8 percent increase in Hong
Kong’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  “No company can live up to the hype BYD’s received” after
Buffett’s investment, said  John Casesa , managing partner at New
York-based Casesa & Co. “It would have to do everything
absolutely perfectly to live up to the expectations of the
market at the peak stock price, and no company does everything
perfectly.”  Buffett, Gates Visit  Buffett, 80, makes his first trip to BYD next week to
inspect a plant in Changsha. He will be accompanied by Microsoft
Corp. founder  Bill Gates  to promote philanthropy among China’s
wealthy.  The company posted a second-quarter profit of 717 million
yuan ($107 million), less than the 962 million-yuan average
estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. At least nine
analysts lowered stock ratings on BYD.  The company also slashed its 2010 sales outlook by 25
percent to 600,000 vehicles from 800,000 on Aug. 4.  Paul Lin , a
BYD spokesman, said last month’s weak sales to dealers stemmed
from the company reducing its inventory of unsold cars.  BYD relied too much on the compact-car segment and set
overly optimistic sales targets, said  Bill Russo , a Beijing-
based senior adviser at Booz & Co. The government also raised
taxes on cars with small engines, partially reversing incentives
that made BYD’s F3 sedan China’s best-selling car in 2009.  ‘Hypercompetitive Market’  “They sold a lot of F3s last year, but at some point, you
reach diminishing  returns  in a hypercompetitive market,” Russo
said. “Over-promise based on your ambitions and under-deliver
on your actual performance, eventually you get humbled.”  BYD  surged  more than 900 percent after Buffett’s investment
and reached a record HK$88.40 on Oct. 23. The stock fell 3.6
percent, the most in almost a month, to HK$54.20 today.
Buffett’s stake is still worth more than six times his original
investment.  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment left with
his assistant,  Debbie Bosanek .  MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., a unit of Berkshire
Hathaway, bought 9.9 percent of BYD in September 2008. The
Chinese company was  founded  in 1995 and made lithium-ion
batteries for handsets. Wang bought troubled carmaker Xi’an
Tsinchuan Auto Co. in 2003.  The company will show a new electric bus during Buffett’s
visit, after introducing the M6 minivan and L3 coupe this year.  “We plan to roll out new models in the second half,” Wang,
44, said in Hong Kong last month. “With them, we hope to gain a
bigger market share and improve profitability.”  Government Investigation  Falling prices may further weaken profitability. At a BYD
dealership on Shanghai’s Hunan Road, boards advertise cash
discounts of up to 12,000 yuan ($1,793) and free gifts for the
F3 with a 70,800-yuan sticker price.  The company’s third-quarter earnings are “going to look
ugly” because of weak sales, said  Charles Guo , an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Hong Kong. He expects company profit to
recover in the fourth quarter as overall car buying picks up.  Two legal disputes also weigh on BYD.  China’s Ministry of Land and Resources is investigating BYD
over the illegal use of farmland it agreed to buy in Xi’an from
a local economic development agency. The carmaker built
factories even though 92 percent of the land they occupied was
still zoned for agriculture, the ministry said July 15.  The government said it will decide by Sept. 30, the final
day of Buffett’s visit, whether to punish the automaker. Lin
wouldn’t discuss the potential implications.  Foxconn Lawsuit  Foxconn, the maker of Apple Inc. iPhones, accuses BYD of
stealing trade secrets. That helped BYD, China’s biggest
rechargeable-battery maker, double revenue from its handset
business from 2005 through 2007, Foxconn said in court documents.  BYD countersued, claiming Foxconn gathered false evidence
and conspired to injure its business.  Terry Gou , chairman of Foxconn Technology Group, criticized
Buffett’s purchase of BYD shares in a Bloomberg Businessweek
interview.  “He doesn’t know the technology,” Gou said, referring to
the batteries used in electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids.
“He just used his name to speculate on the stock.”  Analysts also are re-evaluating BYD’s electric-vehicle
strategy. The carmaker likely won’t deliver its E6 model to the
U.S. before the second half of 2011, said  Scott Laprise , a
Beijing-based analyst at CLSA Asia Pacific.  Lin said BYD still plans to ship the cars to California
this year.  BYD last year delivered 48 of its F3DM plug-in hybrid cars
selling for 149,800 yuan each. The company declined to give 2010
sales figures.  Still, BYD’s strength in batteries may pay off for
investors, Casesa said. China, the world’s biggest polluter,
offers subsidies for cars powered by electricity.  China is paying as much as 50,000 yuan toward the purchase
of plug-in hybrid models and as much as 60,000 yuan for vehicles
running only on batteries in Shanghai, Changchun, Shenzhen,
Hangzhou and Hefei.  “They’ve been in the batteries business a lot longer than
car companies,” Casesa said. “That’s why most industry
observers are reluctant to dismiss the company despite a lot of
skepticism about their claims.”  -- Liza Lin . With assistance from  Andrew Frye  in New York and  Tim Culpan  in Taipei. Editors:  Ian Rowley ,  Michael Tighe   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7010 or
 Llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  