-- Cable Attacks U.K. Finance Industry, Pledges Takeover Inquiry
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-09-22T13:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/cable-to-continue-attack-on-finance-industry-with-u-k-takeover-pay-probe.html
U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable 
stepped up his Liberal Democrat party’s attacks on the finance
industry, announcing an inquiry into corporate-governance rules,
with takeovers and pay both in the spotlight.  In a speech to the  party conference  today in Liverpool,
northwest England, Cable stuck by his criticism of bankers. “I
make no apology for attacking  spivs  and gamblers,” he said,
promising to “shine a harsh light into the murky world of
corporate behavior,” and accusing company directors of
forgetting their duty “when a fat check is waved before them.”  The five-day convention of Britain’s junior governing
party, which ends today, has been dominated by criticism of
financial services and the rich. Liberal Democrat leader  Nick Clegg , the deputy prime minister, spearheaded calls for banks to
show restraint over bonus payments and lend more to business and
showcased a plan to clamp down on tax avoidance and evasion.  Cable denied a rift with the Conservative Party, the senior
partner in the coalition, saying there was a “crystal clear”
agreement on banks to “make them safe and make them lend.” He
also cited Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  in support of
his argument that “we just can’t risk having banks that are too
big to fail.” Aides said yesterday the speech had been seen by
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s office.  Royal Mail  The business secretary also announced plans to allow
employees of Royal Mail Group Plc to buy at least 10 percent of
shares in the company when the government legislates to allow
private investment. The U.K.’s 360-year-old mail service is
struggling to compete with TNT NV of the Netherlands, Deutsche
Post AG’s DHL Worldwide Express unit and  Business Post Group Plc 
as European Union rules phase in competition for deliveries
between 2011 and 2013.  Cable’s department will begin looking next month at what he
called “short-termism and shareholder disengagement,” trying
to find ways to “put responsible shareholders back in the
driving seat of our economy.” Areas under examination will
include whether investors have enough chances to vote on
takeovers and whether directors’ pay encourages mergers.  “Why should good companies be destroyed by short-term
investors looking for a speculative killing, while their
accomplices in the City make fat fees?” Cable said.
“Capitalism takes no prisoners and kills competition where it
can.” To that line, released to media last night, he added:
“as  Adam Smith  explained over 200 years ago.”  ‘Fruity Stuff’  “There was some pretty hard language in there,” Richard
Lambert, director-general of the Confederation of British
Industry, which speaks for 240,000 private-sector businesses,
told BBC Television after Cable’s speech.  “He toned it down a little bit. He’s not now suggesting
all company directors are crooks but it’s still fairly fruity
stuff,” Lambert said. “People in the business community don’t
quite know what the next step is.”  Labor unions called in March for a change to takeover laws
following  Kraft Foods Inc. ’s bid for  Cadbury Plc . Cadbury, based
in Uxbridge, near London, agreed to be sold to Kraft for 11.7
billion pounds ($18.2 billion), creating the world’s largest
confectionery company.  Before the deal, Kraft, based in Northfield, Illinois, said
it would keep open a factory in Keynsham, southwest England.
After the takeover was completed, Kraft announced it had decided
to close the plant by 2011. The independent Takeover Panel has
launched its own investigation into the rules about such
combinations.  ‘Classic Example’  Cable told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program that the Kraft
takeover of Cadbury “was a classic example where short-term
speculative activity is causing real economic damage.”  “We would like to have rules that stop very damaging
behavior,” he said.  Cable’s comments contrast with those of Financial Services
Authority Chairman  Adair Turner , who yesterday told bankers in
London that too much legislation to clamp down on banks would be
counterproductive.  “Ill-designed policy is a more powerful force for harm
than individual greed or error,” Turner said.  Earlier during the conference, Clegg attacked people who
pay “an army of lawyers” to help them avoid tax, while Cable
warned of a “train crash” and the imposition of further taxes
if lenders pay large bonuses next year.  The Liberal Democrats’ senior lawmakers have been seeking
to defend their decision to go into coalition with Cameron’s
Conservatives in May and to support a package of spending cuts
to narrow the record budget deficit.  A ComRes Ltd. poll for the  Independent on Sunday newspaper 
last week found half of those who voted for Clegg’s party in the
May 6 election said it had “sold out.” Liberal Democrat
ministers have responded by blaming the previous Labour
government for letting spending get out of control and failing
to rein in the banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Liverpool, England at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 