-- Cairn Energy Reports First Oil Discovery Off Coast of Greenland; Finds Gas
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-09-21T15:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/cairn-energy-reports-first-oil-discovery-off-coast-of-greenland-finds-gas.html
Cairn Energy Plc , the explorer
selling its Indian operations to Vedanta Resources Plc, made its
first oil discovery off the coast of Greenland.  The Alpha-1S1 well encountered two different types of oil
over a 400-meter (1,300-feet) section in the volcanic intervals
of the well, the Edinburgh, Scotland-based company said today in
a statement. The well also found gas.  “The presence of both oil and gas confirms an active,
working petroleum system in the basin and is extremely
encouraging at this very early stage of our exploration campaign
for the Sigguk block and the entire area,” Chief Executive
Officer  Bill Gammell  said in the statement.  Cairn fell in London trading on Aug. 24 after the company’s
first well off Greenland found natural gas rather than crude
oil. The $84.2 million costs of the T8-1 well have been written
off, the company said. The shares added 2.3 percent to 436.5
pence today.  In August, it had to suspend drilling off Greenland for
about 40 hours after Greenpeace activists climbed one of its
rigs to protest exploration. The ecologists today scaled a
Chevron Corp.-operated oil rig in Shetland Islands in the North
Sea.  “By drilling for oil in ever more dangerous, difficult to
reach places, oil companies are taking us in the wrong
direction,” Tzeporah Berman, a campaigner at Greenpeace, said
today in an e-mailed statement. “If a spill did occur in the
arctic the impact on the environment would be catastrophic.”  Indian Assets  The explorer is spending $400 million this year on drilling
four wells off Greenland. The territory’s waters may hold 50
billion barrels of crude and gas, the U.S. Geological Survey
estimates.  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and Chevron Corp. also own rights
in Greenland, the island Danish territory.  Separately, Cairn will post a circular on the proposed sale
of its Indian assets to Vedanta on its  website  later today, the
company said.  Vedanta, controlled by billionaire  Anil Agarwal , agreed on
Aug. 16 to pay as much as $9.6 billion for up to 60 percent of
Cairn India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  