-- Calderon's Party Denies Nava Backed an Agreement With Mexico's Drug Gangs
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2010-09-21T19:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/calderon-s-party-denies-nava-backed-an-agreement-with-mexico-s-drug-gangs.html
Mexican President  Felipe Calderon ’s
political party said its leader didn’t call for the government
to negotiate with drug traffickers to curtail violence.  The National Action Party said in a statement today that
its chief,  Cesar Nava , never gave an interview to the Ciudad
Juarez newspaper El Diario after it published a  story  today
citing an interview with Nava.  The article reported that Nava said he has suggested an
accord with organized-crime groups in at least five meetings
with government officials, and that such an agreement would help
regain control of territory lost to criminals.  Government security spokesman Alejandro Poire told
reporters yesterday that a truce with organized crime was
unacceptable. Violence related to a crackdown imposed by
Calderon at the beginning of his administration has resulted in
more than 28,000 deaths since December 2006.  El Diario published an  editorial  on Sept. 19 asking that
drug gangs refrain from attacking journalists, saying it was
appealing directly to the traffickers because they were the
city’s de facto authorities. The editorial appeared days after a
photographer from the newspaper was gunned down, the second
journalist from the publication killed in the past two years.  El Diario  wrote  later today that its reporter was tricked
by someone impersonating Nava, according to a note posted at the
top of its website.  There was no answer at the two phone numbers El Diario said
belonged to the caller who impersonated Nava. Two reporters
contacted at the offices of El Diario said the article’s author
wasn’t available to speak.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Jens Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  