-- California City Officials Arrested in Salary Probe
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-09-22T00:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/california-city-officials-arrested-in-salary-probe.html
Eight current and former officials
in the Southern California city of  Bell  were arrested in an
investigation of high salaries that the leaders of the Los
Angeles suburb are accused of paying themselves.  “We are alleging they used the tax dollars from the hard-
working citizens of Bell as their own piggy bank, which they
looted at will,” Los Angeles County District Attorney  Steve Cooley  said today at a news conference.  Former City Manager  Robert Rizzo , 56, is charged with a
total of 53 counts of misappropriating public funds and conflict
of interest. Rizzo, who was paid about $800,000 a year, is
accused of writing his own employment contracts that were never
approved by the city council. The eight suspects, including the
city’s mayor, misappropriated $5.5 million, Cooley said.  It’s not a crime in California to get paid an “excessive”
salary, Cooley said. The manner in which the defendants obtained
the pay, including for purportedly attending meetings that never
took place, is what makes it a crime, the prosecutor said.  “This is not an arrest necessary to accomplish a law
enforcement goal of bringing charges,” Rizzo’s attorney, James
Spertus, said in a phone interview before the news conference.
“This is an arrest done for political reasons because I have
offered to facilitate Mr. Rizzo’s first appearance if it ever
became necessary.”  Spertus didn’t immediately return a call to his office
after the charges were disclosed.  Mayor, Council Members  Bruleo Lopez, 52, a machine operator and 36-year Bell
resident, said he was delighted with the news.  “I like it,” Lopez said, adding that he has had to pay
$4,000 to get his and his son’s cars out of impoundment for
parking tickets in the past year in what he said was a scheme
Rizzo concocted to raise money for the city.  “They raised my taxes, they took our cars,” Lopez said.
“I’m working 16 hours a day so Rizzo can have a horse farm? He
didn’t even live here.”  Those arrested today included Pier’angela Spaccia, Bell’s
former assistant city manager; Mayor  Oscar Hernandez ; Vice Mayor
 Teresa Jacobo ; council members George Mirabal and  Luis Artiga ;
and former members George Cole and Victor Bello.  Law enforcement officials used a battering ram at the home
of Hernandez because he was slow to open the door, Cooley said
at the news conferences.  Arraignment, Bail  All eight are scheduled to be arraigned tomorrow in
downtown Los Angeles. The district attorney’s office couldn’t
provide names of their attorneys. Cooley said he’ll ask that
Rizzo’s bail be set at $3.2 million.  Bell, located about 10 miles (16 kilometers) southeast of
Los Angeles, has a largely Latino population of 38,000. The
city’s latest annual report listed per-capita income at $24,800
in 2008. Statewide, the figure was almost $42,700 that year,
Bloomberg data show.  The city’s municipal elections are nonpartisan.  California Attorney General  Jerry Brown  sued Rizzo and
seven other officials on Sept. 15, accusing them of wasting
public funds, negligence, fraud, conflict of interest and breach
fiduciary duty.  California is asking the court for a return of compensation
paid to the officials “in excess of what was reasonable and
appropriate, an amount to be proven at trial,” according to the
complaint. The state also wants a declaration from the
defendants that such pay won’t count toward future pension
benefits.  Randy Adams, Bell’s former police chief, is a defendant in
the lawsuit and wasn’t arrested today. Artiga wasn’t named as a
defendant in the lawsuit when it was filed.  Base Salary  Rizzo was the city’s chief administrative officer from 1993
until July and earned a base salary of $787,500 in 2010,
according to the suit.  Council members provided Rizzo with 107 days of vacation
and 36 days of sick leave in 2008, Brown’s office said in the
suit. They allowed him to convert vacation and sick leave into
additional pay of $360,000 in 2009, bringing his total
compensation for the year to more than $1.1 million, according
to the filing.  “Mr. Rizzo’s compensation was approved by the city council
and contracts were countersigned by the city attorney,” Spertus
said when the lawsuit was filed. “Mr. Rizzo did nothing
secretive, and did everything in the open and above board. It’s
just very difficult for me to understand why people would accuse
Mr. Rizzo of wrongdoing when he operated so transparently.”  The criminal case is People v. Rizzo, BA376026, Los Angeles
County Superior Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 