-- California's Lockyer Warns Against One-Size-Fits-All Muni Bond Disclosure
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-09-21T04:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/california-s-lockyer-warns-against-one-size-fits-all-muni-bond-disclosure.html
U.S. financial regulators should
avoid “one-size-fits-all” disclosure rules for state and local
municipal bond issuers in order to be of the most use to
investors, according to California Treasurer  Bill Lockyer .  “Disclosure standards need to recognize the differences
between issuers, the types of municipal debt issued, and the
relative security of the investment,” Lockyer said in remarks
prepared for delivery at a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission hearing in San Francisco today.   California , the largest issuer of municipal securities in
the U.S., offered more than $30 billion of debt to investors in
2009. Lockyer’s comments come as SEC Chairwoman  Mary Schapiro 
presses a broad examination of the $2.8 trillion municipal bond
market that she said would lead to new investor-protection
regulations.  The market’s record for safe investment has been
jeopardized by dwindling tax collections, record budget deficits
by states and rising defaults by local borrowers. The SEC sued
 New Jersey  last month over claims that it misled-bond investors
by masking pension costs.  “While it is desirable to have minimum disclosure
standards, unfortunately there may not be a simple one-size-
fits-all solution,” Lockyer said. “The disclosure that will be
useful to investors for a tax-supported general obligation bond
is not the same disclosure that is needed for a utility revenue
bond which is not the same as what is needed for a land-secured
financing.”  Federal Regulation  U.S. state and local governments are subject to less
federal regulation than corporations that sell securities to
investors. Since 1975, the SEC has been prevented from requiring
local governments to file offering documents before they sell
bonds, as public companies must. Nor do federal rules mandate
that municipal issuers follow accounting standards. State and
local government bond disclosure requirements aren’t imposed
directly but through the banks that underwrite the securities.  New standards would come on the heels of federal probes
into bid-rigging in the awarding of municipal investment
contracts and the collapse of the $330 billion auction-rate
securities market in early 2008 that left investors with
securities they couldn’t sell.  “While more timely disclosure and accounting
standardization are generally desirable, these changes may not
always represent improvement due to circumstances such as the
differences in when issuers receive revenues or recognize
expenditures,” according to Lockyer’s testimony.  In January the SEC appointed  Elaine Greenberg , associate
director of its Philadelphia office, to head a municipal
securities and public pensions unit, one of five task forces
created after the global credit crisis and the SEC’s failure to
detect  Bernard Madoff ’s $65 billion Ponzi scheme.  New Jersey on Aug. 18 settled claims with the SEC that the
state didn’t disclose to investors that it failed to put enough
cash into its two biggest pension plans when it sold $26 billion
of bonds from 2001 to 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento, California, at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 