-- Telus Asks For Ban on Exclusive TV Content Distribution By Mobile Rivals
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-09-21T21:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/canada-s-telus-looks-to-shaw-canwest-review-to-prevent-worst-nightmare-.html
Telus Corp. , Canada’s third-largest
wireless phone company, is asking the country’s broadcast
regulator to ensure rivals including Shaw Communications Inc.
can’t distribute television content exclusively to their mobile
subscribers.  Telus is using  public hearings  that began today into Shaw’s
C$2 billion ($1.9 billion) purchase of Canwest Global
Communications Corp.’s television assets to argue against so-
called content exclusivity.  Telus, which  competes  with Shaw and BCE Inc., said it wants
the  Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission 
to impose “unequivocal and enforceable rules” to stop Shaw
from engaging in “abuse of market power,” according to a
filing with the regulator. The request may prod the CRTC to
impose rules for the first time on how television content is
delivered to cell phones.  “Shaw is Telus’s worst nightmare,” said  Iain Grant ,
managing director at Montreal-based Seaboard Research consulting
firm. If the CRTC doesn’t block content exclusivity, Vancouver-
based Telus may lose market share as customers “move to some
carrier that offers what they’re looking for.”  With BCE’s proposed C$1.3 billion acquisition this month of
CTV, Canada’s largest private broadcaster, all of Canada’s large
 telecommunications firms  will soon own television assets, except
for Telus.  Exclusive Content  George Cope , BCE’s chief executive officer, said Sept. 14
he plans to “leverage” exclusive CTV content to win customers.
Shaw plans “in and out-of-home” offerings for its clients when
its next-generation wireless network launches next year.  Telus may be left behind by its rivals if the CRTC doesn’t
regulate the distribution of television content to wireless
phones, analysts say.  Failing to regulate would undermine the  Canadian
broadcasting system , said  Michael Hennessy , senior vice
president for regulatory affairs for Telus. The current rules
are “not clear and never been tested,” Hennessy said by
telephone, adding the CRTC should “indicate that those rules
are going to apply to any distributor.”  Aside from Telus, wireless entrants such as Globalive
Communications Corp. or Public Mobile may also pressure the CRTC
to prevent the spread of content exclusivity, said  Michael Geist , a law professor at the University of Ottawa who
specializes in  technology .  ‘Clear Guidelines’  “They’re going to be urged by a number of parties to try
to establish some pretty clear guidelines,” Geist said.  Ken Stein , Shaw’s chief of regulatory affairs, told the
hearings today that the company would sell and trade its content
with competitors, the National Post  reported .  Telus is at a disadvantage to rivals like Montreal-based
 BCE  and Rogers Communications Inc., which  own content  providers.
If Telus opts to buy content it will have to pay more, said
 Jeffrey Fan , an analyst with Scotia Capital.  Fan, who boosted his one-year  target price  for BCE shares
by C$1.50 to C$31.50 after its agreement to buy CTV, said the
“content gap” will eventually be reflected in Telus’s
valuation.  “It all comes down to content cost -- if you don’t have
it, your cost is going to go up,” he said. Fan doesn’t expect
the CRTC will impose the rules Telus is seeking.  ‘Interesting Question’  While the CRTC typically issues its rulings within 35 days
of completing the review process, the regulator may hold off
imposing new rules on Calgary-based Shaw. It may wait to see how
far the distributors push the concept of content exclusivity as
well as consumer reaction, said  Michel Arpin , who was the CRTC’s
broadcasting  vice chairman  until last month.  “It’s an interesting question and sooner or later it will
be posed,” Arpin said. “It’s not unthinkable that the CRTC
will conclude it agrees that distributors should have exclusive
content,” he said, pointing to countries such as France and the
U.K. where exclusive content is accepted.  Richard French, a public policy professor at the University
of Ottawa who was one of two CRTC vice chairmen until 2007, said
the regulator would be “stupid” if they opt to set rules for
wireless distribution of TV signals. Still, the CRTC “would
really like certain kind of broadcasting distribution rules to
apply to the mobile business,” he said.  BCE, which  said last week  its Business News Network will be
available to wireless clients, has seen a significant increase
in mobile video demand since the 2010 Winter Olympics in
Vancouver.  World Cup  Toronto-based Rogers, Canada’s largest cable operator,
offered matches from the FIFA World Cup exclusively to its
wireless clients this summer. Still,  Rob Bruce , president of
Rogers’s Communications unit, said on an investor’s conference
call Sept. 14 he expects the regulator may eventually step in.  “It’s difficult for me to believe that either economically
or from a regulatory perspective that it will ever make complete
sense to sell media properties only to your own customer base,”
Bruce said.  Those comments were echoed by  Jean-Francois Pruneau  of
Montreal-based Quebecor Inc., which launched its own mobile-
phone service this year.  “Regulators will tell us what has to be done,” Pruneau,
vice president of finance at Quebec’s largest private television
network, cable and Internet operator, said in a Sept. 14 analyst
call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 