-- Canada August Consumer Prices Unexpectedly Fall 0.1%
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-09-21T12:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/canadian-august-cpi-falls-unexpectedly-slows-to-1-7-on-year-on-energy.html
The cost of living in Canada
unexpectedly fell in August, and the 12-month inflation rate
slowed on decelerating energy costs, which may ease pressure on
the Bank of Canada to continue raising interest rates.  The  consumer price index  fell 0.1 percent in August, and
rose 1.7 percent from a year ago following July’s 1.8 percent
gain, Statistics Canada said today. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast the price index would be unchanged during
August and the annual rate would accelerate to 1.9 percent,
according to the median of 16 estimates.  The Canadian dollar and yields on two-year Canadian notes
fell on the report. Investors are betting there is a 40 percent
chance the central bank will lift its benchmark rate to 1.25
percent at the next meeting Oct. 19, according to a  calculation 
by Credit Suisse based on overnight index swaps. That’s down
from 52 percent Sept. 16.  “The inflation numbers were relatively benign,” said  Dawn Desjardins , assistant chief economist at RBC Capital Markets in
Toronto. That allows the Bank of Canada the cushion to “stand
pat” on interest rates in order to gauge the strength of the
U.S. recovery and assess the impact of this year’s interest rate
increases on the domestic economy, she said.  The Canadian dollar depreciated 0.4 percent to C$1.0320 per
U.S. dollar at 8:20 a.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0282 yesterday.
Yields on two-year Canadian bonds fell to 1.483 percent from
1.507 percent late yesterday.  Disappointing Data  Trade, wholesale sales and manufacturing shipment reports
this month have failed to meet economist forecasts, with
Statistics Canada this month reported the country’s trade gap
rising to a record C$2.7 billion in July.  The central bank has raised its  key rate  three times since
the start of June to 1 percent, even as it’s trimmed its growth
forecast. The rate on the three-month overnight index swap,
which measures what investors predict the central bank’s
benchmark will average over that time, yesterday rose 0.3
percentage points to 1.0840 percent.  Underlying inflation as measured by the core rate, which
 excludes eight volatile items  and changes in indirect taxes, was
unchanged at 1.6 percent in August from a year ago, in line with
economist forecasts. Core consumer prices increased 0.1 percent
during August, also matching expectations.  Policy makers projected  core inflation  will average 1.8
percent through the first quarter of 2011, and that both total
and core inflation will advance at a 2 percent pace throughout
2012. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  has raised his
benchmark  interest rate  three times since June, and the central
bank’s July  forecast  included a “gradual” increase in interest
rates to aim inflation at the 2 percent target.  Lower prices for fresh vegetables, home and mortgage
insurance and natural gas led the drop in consumer price index
during the month of August. On an annual basis, inflation slowed
as price increases for gasoline and electricity decelerated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  