-- Canadian Stocks Fall as Oil, Agricultural Commodities Decline
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-09-21T18:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/canadian-stocks-decline-as-crude-oil-prices-drop-gold-futures-fluctuate.html
Canadian stocks  fell from a four-
month high as futures of crude oil and agricultural commodities
slumped, weakening energy and fertilizer shares.  Crescent Point Energy Corp., which produces oil and gas in
western Canada, lost 1.9 percent after announcing a share
offering. Methanex Corp., the world’s largest methanol producer,
slid 4 percent as Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce cut its
 rating  on the shares. BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd.
gained 4 percent after reports that a rival’s new smartphone
will be delayed.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  retreated 29.53
points, or 0.2 percent, to 12,204.98 as of 2:46 p.m. in Toronto
after earlier sinking as much as 0.9 percent.  The S&P/TSX has risen  5.6 percent  over the past four weeks,
led by financial and raw-materials shares. Precious metals have
climbed in part on speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will
return to stimulus policies to boost the economy.  The index trimmed its decline and gold recouped its losses
on the day after the U.S. central bank said it “is prepared to
provide additional accommodation if needed to support the
economic recovery.”  Crude oil decreased 2.5 percent to $72.96 a barrel in New
York a day before a U.S. government report that may say
refineries operated at the lowest rate in five months, based on
the median estimate in a  Bloomberg survey .  Suncor Energy Inc., Canada’s largest oil and gas company,
fell 1.1 percent to C$32.98. Canadian Natural Resources Ltd.,
the country’s second-biggest energy company by market value,
slipped 0.6 percent to C$34.36.  Share Sale  Crescent Point decreased 1.9 percent to C$36.70. The
company said it will sell 10.3 million shares at C$36.60 a
share, in part to raise funds for an increased plan of capital
spending and for the acquisition of land in Alberta.  Agrium Inc., Canada’s second-largest fertilizer producer,
lost 1.9 percent to C$75.84 as corn futures fell for a second
day after closing at a 23-month high last week. Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s biggest fertilizer producer,
slipped 1.3 percent to C$150.62.  RIM, Canada’s largest technology company, increased 4
percent to C$48.25 after electronics industry websites
Electronista and Engadget said rival Nokia Oyj is delaying
shipments of its N8 smartphone. Nokia denied the reports.  Shoppers Drug Mart Corp., Canada’s largest drug-store
chain, rallied 2.4 percent to C$38.60 after Chris Li, an analyst
at Bank of America Corp., raised his rating on the shares to
“buy” from “neutral.” Shoppers has gained eight days in a
row, the longest streak in three years.  Rating Cut  Methanex retreated 4 percent to C$24.40 after  Jacob Bout , a
CIBC analyst, reduced his rating on the Vancouver company to
“sector performer” from “sector outperformer,” citing the
company’s valuation. The stock had advanced 14 percent since
Bout gave the company the higher rating in January.  Gildan Activewear Inc., Canada’s largest clothing maker,
fell 3.6 percent to C$28.85 as cotton advanced to a 15-year
high. Every 1-cent increase in the price per pound of cotton
reduces Gildan’s earnings by 3 cents a share,  Spencer Churchill ,
an analyst at Paradigm Capital Inc., said in a note dated
yesterday. The company might be able to offset higher input
costs with product prices increases, Churchill wrote.  Imax Corp., the developer of giant-screen movie technology,
climbed for a fifth day, rallying 5.9 percent to C$17.29. The
company said it has agreed to open 15 cinemas in China with
South Korea’s CJ CGV Co. It is the Mississauga, Ontario-based
company’s biggest expansion in Asia to date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 