-- Glossy Paper From China, Indonesia to Face U.S. Anti-Subsidy Import Duties
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-10-22T21:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/chinese-indonesian-glossy-paper-to-face-u-s-import-duties-over-subsidies.html
The U.S. will impose dumping and
anti-subsidy duties on glossy paper from Indonesia and China
after the U.S. International Trade Commission ruled that
domestic makers may be harmed by low-cost imports.  The panel’s 6-0 vote yesterday followed by hours a World
Trade Organization decision that applying both sets of duties on
China doesn’t violate trade rules. China has called the duties
protectionist, while lawmakers and makers of steel, paper and
textiles say they are crucial to countering what they call
unfair trade practices.  “This decision by the ITC will help level the
international playing field for our manufacturers and make it
possible for our companies to sustain and create jobs,”
Representative  Michael Michaud , a Maine Democrat, said in a
statement after the decision.  The ITC ruling is the final step needed to set tariffs on
imports valued at $260 million of the glossy paper, used to
print magazines and art books.  NewPage Corp. , Appleton Coated
LLC and a unit of  Sappi Ltd . sought the duties, citing China’s
and Indonesia’s policies of debt forgiveness, cheap power and
low-cost access to timber for domestic producers.  The dumping duties will reach as much as 135.83 percent for
China and 20.13 percent for Indonesia, the Commerce Department
said last month. Countervailing duties to offset subsidies will
be as much as 17.94 percent for Indonesia and 178.03 percent for
China, the agency said.  Preliminary Duties  The Commerce Department imposed preliminary duties in April
and May. Paper importers have been depositing those duties
pending action by the ITC. The panel’s decision sets the stage
for the tariff rates to take effect within days.  Gold East Paper Jiangsu Co. must pay combined duties of
25.24 percent, the department said. Chinese companies not listed
in the case face a 153.47 percent duty, according to the
statement.  Asia Pulp & Paper , a unit of Indonesia’s  Sinar Mas Group ,
must pay a 38 percent duty on its exports, according to a
company statement.  “We are extremely disappointed in the commission’s
decision,” said Terry Hunley, acting president for the company
in the U.S. “We believe there are very strong grounds for
appeal, and we will begin pursuing our appeal options
immediately.”  China Leads Complaints  China, which faces the most unfair trade complaints
worldwide, has criticized the U.S. decision to impose dumping
and countervailing duties on imports from that country. The U.S.
categorizes China as a non-market economy, which raises the
anti-dumping duties its products face in the U.S.  In its case at the WTO, China argued that the U.S. was
punishing its products twice by imposing both sets of duties.  The WTO judges rejected 8 of 11 complaints by China against
U.S. duties on imports of steel pipes, some off-road tires and
woven sacks in its decision announced in Geneva yesterday.  “This was a major victory for the U.S.,” said Alan Price,
a lawyer at Wiley Rein LLP in Washington who has represented
Nucor Corp. in trade cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 