-- China Says Yuan Calls `Unwise' in Response to Obama
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-21T12:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/china-calls-yuan-pressure-unwise-after-obama-criticizes-lack-of-progress.html
U.S. finger-pointing at the yuan’s
exchange rate is short-sighted and unwise, China’s foreign
ministry said in response to comments by President  Barack Obama .  “A number of discordant voices in the U.S. have recently
pointed to the renminbi exchange rate, and suggested all
possible ways to push for its appreciation,” spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  said in a statement on a government website today. “This is
unwise and shortsighted.”  China’s leaders haven’t done “everything they said would
be done” to allow appreciation, Obama said at an hour-long town
hall discussion in Washington.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said last week the U.S.
will use every available tool to urge China to let the
yuan rise more quickly. Calls to let the currency strengthen
will grow as China faces swelling trade protectionism against
its exports,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the People’s Bank of China,
said Sept. 19.  Yuan forwards jumped the most since June today as the
dollar weakened against the euro and the yen.  Jiang said the yuan’s exchange rate cannot solve the U.S.
trade deficit. She called on the U.S. to pay attention to
encouraging stable economic growth and said that as a nation
with a reserve currency, it should pursue responsible monetary
and fiscal policies to keep major currencies stable.  Trade ‘Advantage’  The yuan is “valued lower than market conditions say it
should be” and that gives China “an advantage in
trade,” Obama said ahead of scheduled talks with Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  at this week’s  United Nations  General
Assembly in New York. “We are going to continue to insist that
on this issue and all trade issues with China, it’s a two-way
street.”  The yuan has appreciated 1.8 percent against the dollar
since June 19, when the People’s Bank of China said it would
pursue a more flexible exchange rate after keeping the currency
at about 6.83 versus the U.S. currency for almost two years.  Jiang said that China has always aimed to increase imports
from the U.S. and hopes America can do more to relax export
controls. China will continue to reform its exchange-rate system,
she said.  -- Henry Sanderson . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Matthew Oakley .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  