-- China Loses Calvin Klein Bra Maker to Southeast Asia on Costs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-21T06:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/china-loses-as-calvin-klein-bra-maker-moves-factory-plan-to-southeast-asia.html
China’s rising labor costs prompted
 Top Form International Ltd. , a bra maker for  Calvin Klein , to
pick Southeast Asia for a new factory, adding to signs of a
reshaping of the economy away from export-tied regions.  “We’ve halted plans to open a fourth factory in China,”
 Eddie Wong , group managing director and co-founder of Hong Kong-
based Top Form, which also supplies brands including Maidenform,
said in an interview yesterday. “We can consider other cities
in China but it’s only a matter of time before wages will rise
again and it will get more expensive for us.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s government is considering accelerated
income gains, including higher minimum wages, as officials seek
to strengthen consumption in the aftermath of an export slump
during the global crisis. Top Form’s move follows plans by  Dell
Inc.  to build a production and operations center in Chengdu,
central China, adding to its existing base in port-city Xiamen.  Average wages at factories in China soared 40 percent in
Guangdong, a coastal province in the south, and 20 percent in
Jiangxi, which abuts Guangdong, in the year through June,
according to Wong. While average monthly pay is about $200 in
Thailand and the Philippines, and slightly below that level in
Jiangxi, the pace of increase is faster in China, he said.  Top Form is considering Thailand, the Philippines and
Vietnam for the site of its additional factory, Wong said in
Hong Kong. Rising minimum wages have contributed to the increase
in Chinese labor costs, said  Michael Austin , the company’s chief
financial officer.  Policy Review  The central government is reviewing a policy recommendation
to boost wages, particularly at smaller and medium-sized
businesses, that was submitted by the All-China Federation of
Industry & Commerce, a private business industry group chaired
by  Huang Mengfu , according to Wu Wei, a press official at the
federation, said by phone today. Wu declined to elaborate on the
proposal.  Huang, who is also vice chairman of the Chinese People’s
Political Consultative Conference, an advisory panel to national
legislators, in June endorsed a plan to double incomes
nationwide in the next five years, through steps including
guidelines on annual minimum-wage increases, according to a
China News Service report.  “Rising wages will help boost households’ purchasing power
and push companies to add value to products rather than overly
depend on labor-intensive production,” said  Lu Ting , a Hong
Kong-based economist at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch. At the
same time, forcing faster increases through government action
risks fueling inflation, he said.  Higher Minimums  While allowing local governments to set their own minimum
wages, the labor ministry has ordered the levels to be adjusted
at least every two years. After halting increases last year amid
the global recession, 27 of China’s 31 provinces have increased
pay rates this year, mostly by more than 20 percent, the Beijing
News reported Aug. 18.  Gong Nanxiang, a press official at the  Ministry of Human
Resources and Social Security , said he’s not aware of a plan to
double wages in the next five years.  China needs to increase domestic consumption to survive in
a global economic environment that is growing more challenging,
 Li Daokui , an adviser to the People’s Bank of China, said Sept.
19 at a financial forum in Beijing.  Rising labor costs have been felt most acutely in China’s
coastal regions in the east, a hub of foreign-invested
manufacturers that attract a majority of the nation’s 145
million migrant workers, most of whom earn minimum wages.  Foxconn Technology Group , the assembler of Apple Inc.’s
iPhones, in June agreed to more than double wages at its
Shenzhen factories in southern China after a spate of suicides.
The company said last month it will build factories in inland
provinces Henan and Sichuan that are closer to employees’ homes.  Labor unrest that disrupted output at Toyota Motor Corp.
and  Honda Motor Co.  suppliers in China in June also forced the
carmakers to boost wages.  -- Li Yanping ,  Wing-Gar Cheng . Editors:  Chris Anstey ,  Lily Nonomiya   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net 
Wing-Gar Cheng in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6114 or
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  