-- China May Unveil Property Tax in October to Reign Home Prices, Report Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-09-21T02:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/china-may-unveil-property-tax-in-october-to-reign-home-prices-report-says.html

          
          
             China may announce property tax
measures as early as the October National Day holidays to cool
home prices,  China Business News  reported today, citing an
unidentified person.  
 The new tax, which will be extended to include residential
property, is more likely to be implemented at the start of next
year, the Chinese-language newspaper said. The government
currently imposes a tariff on business-use real estate and
exempts individuals’ residential housing. The National Day
holidays take place from Oct. 1 to Oct. 7.  
 China’s  property prices  in 70 major cities rose 9.3 percent
in August from a year earlier, showing the need for the
government to extend a crackdown on speculators and multiple
home purchases. Real-estate developers should price homes
“reasonably” or face tougher tightening measures, China
Securities Journal reported today, citing Zhu Zhongyi, vice
chairman of the China Real Estate Association.  
 Property prices in urban China are “too high” and
“difficult to accept,” according to a third-quarter survey of
urban households by the People’s Bank of China released Sept. 19.
The percentage of urban households that expect further house-
price gains rose 7.2 percentage points from the second quarter
to 36.6 percent, the report said.  
 An index of Chinese property stocks rose 0.3 percent as of
10:34 a.m. local time and is down 30 percent this year.  China
Vanke Co. , the nation’s biggest listed developer, gained 1.7
percent to 8.21 yuan in Shenzhen trading, trimming this year’s
loss to 24 percent.  
 Sales Recover  
 China has since April raised the down payment and interest
rates on second-home mortgages and restricted the number of new
homes residents can buy in some cities to avert a property
bubble.  
 A recovery in property transactions even as price gains
slow suggests policy makers will probably introduce further
tightening measures, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts  Jinsong Du 
and Ronney Cheung said earlier this month. Sales by value last
month rose about 15 percent from July.  
 By contrast,  Jing Ulrich , chairwoman of China equities and
commodities at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said Sept. 8 that China
doesn’t need additional measures because an increasing supply of
affordable housing will damp prices.  
 BNP Paribas yesterday raised its view on the Chinese
property industry to “positive” from “neutral,” saying in a
report that the government will probably not introduce further
measures to curb the real estate market as they focus on
implementing existing policies.  
 -- Zhang Dingmin . Editors:  Andreea Papuc ,  Philip Lagerkranser   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        