-- China Stocks Rise From Five-Week Low; Consumer Companies Gain, Miners Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-21T07:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/china-stock-futures-rise-miners-may-gain-property-developers-may-decline.html
China’s stocks  rose as appliance
makers gained on the prospect of consumer spending during the
upcoming holidays, overshadowing declines by commodity producers
amid speculation the government will impose a property levy.  GD Midea Holding Co.  and Gree Electric Appliances Inc, the
nation’s top appliances makers, climbed more than 2 percent.
Jiangxi Copper Co. slumped 4 percent after China Business News
said the government may announce property tax measures soon to
cool the housing market. Air China Ltd. paced losses by airlines
amid concern recent gains were excessive.  “Consumer stocks usually outperform the broader market
towards holidays and it’s no exception this time,” said  Wu Kan ,
Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong Insurance Co., which
oversees $285 million. “The property tax is like a sword
hanging over the market and will continue to weigh on stocks
until the government is upfront about any plans.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, added 2.84, or 0.1 percent, to 2,591.55
at the 3 p.m. close. It yesterday dropped to the lowest since
Aug. 12. The  CSI 300 Index  rose 0.3 percent at 2,857.48.  China’s markets are closed for the rest of the week from
tomorrow for the Mid-Autumn Festival and from Oct. 1 to Oct. 7
for National Day holidays.  The Shanghai index has lost 21 percent this year, the
world’s second-worst performer, as the government imposed
tightening measures ranging from restrictions on multi-house
purchases to a 7.5 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion) annual limit on
new lending by banks. The gauge has climbed 9.6 percent from
this year’s low on July 5 on signs the nation’s economic
slowdown is stabilizing.  Consumer Stocks  An index tracking consumer discretionary stocks rose 1.2
percent, the most on the CSI 300, followed by a 1 percent gain
by health-care companies.  Midea, China’s second-biggest publicly traded appliance
maker, advanced 2 percent to 14.99 yuan. Gree Electric, China’s
largest maker of home air-conditioners, added 2 percent to 14.15
yuan.  Suning Appliance Co. , the nation’s biggest home appliance
retailer by market value, climbed 3.1 percent to 15.49 yuan.  SAIC Motor Corp. , the nation’s largest carmaker, advanced
2.7 percent to 17.40 yuan, the biggest gain since Sept. 2. The
company said it may invest in General Motors’s IPO if conditions
are favorable.  Citic Securities Co. remains “overweight” on China’s air-
conditioning industry after sales jumped 81 percent in August
from a year ago, analysts  Hu Yali  and  Liao Xinyu  said in a
report today.  Drugmakers Gain  China needs to increase domestic consumption to help
survive in a global economic environment that is growing more
challenging,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the People’s Bank of China,
said Sept. 19.  China National Medicines Corp., a pharmaceutical
distributor, rallied 4.4 percent to 24.46 yuan, the most since
Aug. 5. Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding Co. gained 1.2 percent
to 21.49 yuan.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal, slid
4 percent to 29.49 yuan, the most since Aug. 20. The company
said last week 1.28 billion of its shares will become tradable
on Sept. 27.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , better known as Chalco,
dropped 0.5 percent to 9.62 yuan, its lowest close in two months.
Henan Yuguang Gold & Lead Co., China’s biggest lead producer,
retreated 4.4 percent to 18.34 yuan.  The property tax, which will be extended to include
residential property, is likely to be implemented at the start
of next year, China Business News said, citing an unidentified
person. The government currently imposes a tariff on business-
use real estate and exempts individuals’ residential housing.  House Prices  Real-estate developers should price homes “reasonably” or
face tougher tightening measures, China Securities Journal
reported today, citing Zhu Zhongyi, vice chairman of the China
Real Estate Association.  Property prices in urban China are “too high” and
“difficult to accept,” according to a third-quarter survey of
urban households by the People’s Bank of China released Sept. 19.  Air China, the nation’s largest international carrier,
dropped 1.4 percent to 12.23 yuan. The stock rallied 10 percent
this month through yesterday on the prospect the strengthening
yuan will ease dollar-denominated fuel bills.  China Southern Airlines Co., the nation’s biggest carrier
by fleet size, slid 0.8 percent to 8.28 yuan, dropping from its
highest close since May 5.  China Eastern Airlines Corp. , the
nation’s second-largest carrier, fell 2.5 percent to 7.88 yuan.  The yuan climbed 0.18 percent to 6.7025 per dollar,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. That’s the
strongest level since the central bank unified official and
market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Richard Frost ,  Linus Chua   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  