-- China Understands Need to Shift Toward Domestic Consumption, Zoellick Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-09-21T17:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/china-understands-need-to-shift-toward-domestic-consumption-zoellick-says.html
World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said Chinese officials understand the need to rebalance
their economy toward more domestic consumption, and that
allowing the currency to appreciate is not the only tool for it.  “They recognize this is an issue, in part for their own
interest,” Zoellick said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness” with  Margaret Brennan . Zoellick said
a stronger yuan is appropriate, adding “the question is how
they accomplish it, how you press them and also what the U.S.
has to do.”  The U.S. and China traded barbs this week on the value of
the yuan, with President  Barack Obama  saying Chinese leaders
haven’t done “everything they said would be done” to allow
appreciation and China’s foreign ministry calling U.S. comments
about the exchange rate “unwise and shortsighted.”  China surpassed Japan as the world’s second-largest economy
last quarter. The U.S.  trade deficit  with China reached $119
billion in the first half of 2010, putting it on a course to
exceed last year’s total of $227 billion.  The yuan is “valued lower than market conditions say it
should be” and that gives China “an advantage in trade,” said
Obama, whose Democratic Party could lose control of Congress in
November elections.  China’s currency rose to the highest level since 1993
today, with yuan forwards gaining for a fourth day.  U.S. Divisions  U.S. lawmakers disagree on the need for legislation that
would punish China for keeping its currency undervalued,
reflecting divisions among businesses and farm groups over trade
with the country.  U.S. manufacturers and labor unions support pressing China
on its currency to create jobs, while farmers and lobbyists for
companies such as  Caterpillar Inc.  and Citigroup Inc. argue the
actions may hurt business in one the fastest-growing U.S. export
markets.  Zoellick said that while it’s “important to continue to
put pressure on them,” calling China a currency manipulator may
just antagonize officials.  To rebalance its economy, China also needs to make
structural changes in its industrial base, and the World Bank is
helping them with this, Zoellick said.  The U.S. also has a role to play in rebalancing the world
economy, which is “a question of U.S. savings” that is linked
to “budget issues,” Zoellick said.  European Debts  Asked about Europe’s economy and investors’ concerns about
sovereign debts in countries including Ireland, Zoellick said
Europe is united in fighting the “downside risks” to its
growth.  “Europeans are going to strike very hard to avoid
defaults” and they need to address long-term spending plans
linked to demographics, as does the U.S., he said.  In such conditions, “it won’t be easy” for the  World Bank 
to replenish its lending arm that charges the poorest countries
little or no interest, said Zoellick, who’s also counting on
emerging economies and on the bank’s internal resources to help
increase the amount available.  Donors for the International Development Association, or
IDA, pledged a record in development aid at the end of 2007,
helping bring financing to almost $42 billion over three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Brennan  in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  