-- China Tells U.S. to Stay Out of Dispute Over South China Sea's Sovereignty
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-21T10:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/china-tells-u-s-to-stay-out-of-dispute-over-south-china-sea-s-sovereignty.html
China signaled for the U.S. to stay
out of disputes over the South China Sea, three days before
President  Barack Obama  is due to meet with regional leaders
concerned over China’s territorial claims in the oil-and gas-
rich waters.  “China enjoys indisputable sovereign rights over the South
China Sea islands and adjacent waters,” Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  told reporters today in Beijing. “We
oppose the internationalization and expansion of the South China
Sea dispute because it will only make the issue more
complicated.”  Portions of the South China Sea are claimed by Vietnam, the
Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and  Indonesia . China claims almost
the entire sea, and Chinese maps show a dotted line swooping
southward hundreds of miles from the Chinese island province of
Hainan to form a claim U.S. officials call the ”cow’s tongue.”  China’s claims overlap those of its Association of South
East Asian neighbors, whose leaders will meet with Obama Sept.
24 in New York. Vietnam is selling rights to oil and gas fields
that conflict with China’s territorial claims. The Philippines
destroyed Chinese markers in the sea during a 1995 dispute.  The U.S. is pushing back against a more aggressive Chinese
presence in the South China Sea, urging countries such as
Vietnam and its neighbors to unite to balance China’s increasing
assertiveness. In July, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ,
speaking at an Asean meeting in Hanoi, said resolving
territorial disputes off China’s southern coast is “a leading
diplomatic priority,” signaling her intention to intercede in
the region.  China Rebuke  That drew a rebuke from Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi , who said “internationalizing” the issue “can only
make matters worse and more difficult to solve.” Clinton’s
“seemingly fair” comments are “virtually an attack on
China,” China’s Foreign Ministry said in July.  Jiang said that “issues concerning territorial sovereignty
and major development are a core interest” of China’s.  The South China Sea “is not an international issue nor a
regional issue and should be solved peacefully through friendly
consultation,” Jiang said. “It should be properly settled
between China and countries directly involved.”  Jiang’s comments on the South China Sea territorial dispute
come as China and Japan are locked in a diplomatic dispute
centering on conflicting territorial claims in the East China
Sea. China has suspended high-level diplomatic contacts with
Japan over the Sept. 7 detention of a Chinese fishing boat
captain whose trawler collided with two Japanese coast guard
vessels in disputed waters.  -- Michael Forsythe . Editors:  Patrick Harrington ,  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7580 or
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  