-- Clorox to Sell Auto-Care Businesses for $780 Million
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2010-09-21T20:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/clorox-sells-stp-armor-all-auto-care-business-to-avista-for-780-million.html
Clorox Co. , the maker of household-
cleaning products, agreed to sell its STP and Armor All auto-
care brands to private-equity firm Avista Capital Partners for
about $780 million in cash.  The deal for the businesses, which had global sales of
about $300 million in the year ended June 30, probably will
close by the end of the year, Clorox said today in a statement.
Clorox plans to use the proceeds to  buy back  stock.  Clorox Chief Executive Officer  Don Knauss  said in May that
the bleach maker would explore options for the auto-care brands
because the businesses have languished for years and aren’t a
good match. Earnings lost from the sale of the unit will trim
profit by 20 cents to 25 cents a share this year, Clorox said.  “It’s a reasonable price,” said  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York who has an
“underperform” rating on the shares. “It was not a fast-
growing business, but they are very good brands with very good
margins.”  Five-year-old Avista, made up of the former DLJ Merchant
Banking Partners, invests primarily in health-care, energy and
media companies. Kirkland & Ellis LLP served as Avista’s legal
adviser.  The sale will be the sixth divestiture for Clorox in the
past decade, with the last one completed in 2003, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Clorox, based in Oakland,
California,  fell  89 cents to $66.72 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 9.4 percent
this year.  The company earned $4.24 a share in the year ended June 30.
It’s spent almost $3.6 billion on  share repurchases  in the past
six years, including a $2.3 billion buyback in 2005, according
to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 