-- Colombian Peso Falls for a Second Day on Bets of Central Bank Measures
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-09-21T18:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/colombian-peso-falls-for-a-second-day-on-bets-of-central-bank-measures.html
Colombia’s peso fell for a second
day on speculation the central bank will take further measures
to ease the peso’s world-beating rally.  The currency dropped 0.2 percent to 1,805 per dollar at 2
p.m. New York time, from 1,800.7 yesterday. Today’s decline
pares the peso’s jump this year to 13.2 percent, still the best
performance among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Banco de la Republica said in a Sept. 15 statement it plans
to buy at least $20 million daily for at least four months to
bolster foreign reserves. Brazil yesterday authorized the
country’s wealth fund to buy an unlimited amount of dollars for
reais, and Japan last week said it sold yen in the spot market
for the first time since 2004, a sign that intervention against
a weak dollar is spreading globally.  “There’s a lot of nervousness the central bank will take
additional measures, and more so given other countries like
Brazil are announcing efforts to boost dollar purchases,” said
 David Aldana , head analyst at Bogota-based brokerage
Ultrabursatiles SA.  Colombian policy makers may announce measures such as
ordering Colombian companies and investors taking out overseas
loans to deposit a percentage of the funds in the central bank,
according to Aldana.  ‘More Time’  Colombia isn’t considering capital controls to stem a rally
in the peso, Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said last
week, while central bank board member  Carlos Gustavo Cano  said
in an interview with La Republica newspaper published Sept. 13
that policy makers are considering the measures.  Should the central bank decide to take further measures, it
likely won’t announce anything in the Sept. 24 monetary policy
meeting as they “give it more time to see how the peso reacts
to the initial intervention announcement,” said Aldana. The
peso has dropped 0.8 percent since last week’s announcement.  Banco de la Republica will leave its  overnight lending rate 
unchanged at a record low of 3 percent, according to all 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Colombia’s peso is also weakening as investors are likely
pushing the peso lower in order to sell dollars to the central
bank at a higher price, said  Juan Carlos Hernandez , a fixed-
income trader at Miami-based brokerage Tradewire Securities.  The central bank acquired $20.3 million today, according to
the bank’s website.  The yield on the benchmark 11 percent bonds due 2020 rose
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 7.22 percent,
according to Colombia’s stock exchange. The bond’s price fell
0.635 centavo to 125.927 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  