-- Delhi Commonwealth Games Village Leaves Competitors `Shocked'
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-09-21T11:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/commonwealth-games-village-in-new-delhi-leaves-competitors-shocked-.html
Living conditions in the athletes’
village for next month’s Commonwealth Games in New Delhi have
“shocked” the majority of teams, the head of the multisport
event’s international governing body said.  “Many nations that have already sent their advanced
parties to set up within the village have made it abundantly
clear that, as of the afternoon of Sept. 20, the Commonwealth
Games village is seriously compromised,” Michael Fennell,
president of the  Commonwealth Games Federation , said today in a
statement. “Significant operational matters remain
unaddressed.”  The team manager for New Zealand’s athletes, Dave Currie,
told the Newstalk ZB  radio network  that organizers were in
“severe difficulties” as they raced to finish work. “It’s
pretty grim really, and certainly disappointing when you
consider the amount of time they’ve had,” Currie said.  The lead-up to the four-yearly Games, which feature about
8,000 athletes from the U.K. and its former colonies and
dependencies, has been marred by allegations of corruption and
mismanagement, an outbreak of dengue fever, monsoon floods and
the Sept. 19 shooting of two Taiwanese nationals at the city’s
Jama Masjid mosque that raised fears over athletes’ security.  Adding to organizers’ woes, a footbridge collapsed today
near the  Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium , home to the opening and
closing ceremonies and athletics events, injuring several people,
television channels, including CNN-IBN, reported.  Costs Escalate  Government spending for the Games has overrun a 2003
estimate of $500 million by more than nine-fold. The Games have
been criticized as the most expensive ever by the Comptroller
and Auditor General agency and opposition parties in a nation
where the World Bank says 828 million people live on less than
$2 a day.  Amid a flurry of negative reports, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  ordered an investigation into preparations for the event
that he has said would show how India “is rapidly marching
ahead with confidence.”  While the so-called international zone and main dining area
have been praised, deadlines for the completion of the village
are constantly being pushed out, Fennell added. High security
around the site is “slowing progress and complicating
solutions,” he said.  New Zealand’s Prime Minister  John Key  said today Games
officials were “trying very hard to resolve” problems and the
country was unlikely to make a  unilateral decision  to pull out
of the competition, the Herald newspaper reported.  Toilets at the village are in a “mess” after rooms were
left unlocked and were used by laborers, the Times of India
reported, without saying where it got the information.  ‘Two Seconds to Midnight’  With the games village due to be officially opened on Sept.
23, Australia’s chef de mission,  Steve Moneghetti , told
reporters in Melbourne today that Delhi has “got two days to do
what’s probably going to take about two weeks.”  Commonwealth Games England said in a statement that while
it remained “optimistic” of the team’s participation in the
event, “there is a lot still to be done in the village and this
needs to be done with some urgency.” Monsoon rains had
highlighted problems with plumbing and electrics, it said.  Currie told Newstalk ZB that hygiene standards were poor
and post-construction cleaning hadn’t been done. While there is
a little time for more work to be carried out, “it’s kind of
two seconds to midnight,” he said.  Fennell said he had written to the Indian government
requesting the immediate deployment of the “necessary resources
to fix all the outstanding issues to an acceptable level.” The
Games are scheduled for Oct. 3-14.  “I will arrive in Delhi at the earliest opportunity so as
to assess the situation first hand and provide our member
countries and territories with a frank assessment of the
situation,” Fennell said.  The weekend attack at Delhi’s main mosque brought a warning
from the Australian government that there was a “high risk of
terrorism” during the 11-day event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  