-- HP, Commerzbank, Perishing, Dow, UBS in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-09-21T10:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/commerzbank-bnp-paribas-pershing-standard-chartered-ubs-in-court-news.html
Hewlett-Packard Co.  and  Oracle
Corp.  said they resolved litigation over the appointment of Mark
Hurd as a president of Oracle and reaffirmed the long-term
partnership between the two companies.  “HP and Oracle have been important partners for more than
20 years and are committed to working together to provide
exceptional products and service to our customers,” Cathie
Lesjak, HP’s interim chief executive officer, said yesterday in
a statement.  Hurd was sued Sept. 7 by HP, which tried to block his move.
The company said working as a president at Oracle would make it
“impossible” for him to avoid using or disclosing HP’s trade
secrets and confidential information. Hurd will adhere to his
obligations to protect HP’s confidential information while
fulfilling his responsibilities at Oracle, the companies said.  As part of the resolution of the legal dispute, Hurd and HP
agreed to modify terms of his separation agreement from HP,
including waiving his rights to 330,177 performance-based
restricted stock units granted in January 2008, HP said in a
regulatory filing. Hurd also waived his rights to 15,853
restricted stock units granted in December 2009, HP said.  The settlement is unlikely to affect HP’s stock price or
limit Oracle’s ability to compete with HP, said Aaron Rakers, an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in St. Louis.  Legal experts have said that HP would be unlikely to
prohibit Hurd’s move because California’s courts favor letting
employees move freely. The theory that trade secrets will
inevitably be disclosed “won’t work in California as a reason
to prevent someone from taking a job,” Mark Lemley, a professor
at Stanford Law School who specializes in intellectual property,
said in an interview earlier this month.  The case is Hewlett-Packard Co. v. Hurd, 110-cv-181699,
California Superior Court, Santa Clara County (San Jose).  For a related story, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Commerzbank Wins Frankfurt Appeals Case Over Dresdner Bonuses  Commerzbank AG , Germany’s second-biggest bank, won
dismissal of appeals cases filed by 14 former Dresdner Kleinwort
investment bank employees over their bonuses.  The Frankfurt labor appeals court yesterday backed a lower
tribunal which dismissed the suits last year. The employees seek
bonuses for 2008 ranging from about 29,000 euros ($37,987) to
450,000 euros. Commerzbank acquired Dresdner Bank AG last year
and faces similar suits in London.  Commerzbank, which was forced to tap Germany for 18.2
billion euros of capital during the credit crisis, cut
prospective 2008 bonuses for Dresdner employees by as much as 90
percent after the unit posted an operating loss of 6.3 billion
euros that year.  Yesterday’s ruling is the first by a German appeals court
over the dispute and Manuel Rhotert, a lawyer for some the
plaintiffs, said he will appeal the decision.  Commerzbank spokesman Thomas Bonk said the bank welcomed
the ruling “which totally backs our view of the issue.”  Yesterday’s cases are Hess. LAG, 7 Sa 2082/09 u.a.  For more, click here.  BNP Paribas, Credit Agricole, Fined in French Check Cartel  BNP Paribas SA ,  Groupe Credit Agricole , BPCE SA and eight
other banks were fined a total of 384.9 million euros ($504
million) after France’s competition regulator said an electronic
check-processing program improperly levied fees on consumers.  BPCE, France’s second-largest bank by branches, was fined
90.9 million euros, the largest penalty. Credit Agricole was
fined 82.9 million, the  Autorite de la Concurrence  said in a
 statement . Credit Agricole’s Credit Lyonnais unit was fined
another 20.9 million euros.  The banks set a 4.3 euro-cent charge to exchange check
images between lenders, one of nine interbank charges introduced
when they switched to electronic processing. The check image fee
was charged from January 2002 to July 2007, and only lifted
“under the pressure of the ongoing proceedings,” the regulator
said.  BNP, France’s largest bank, was fined 63 million euros, and
Societe Generale SA 53 million euros. Societe Generale’s Credit
du Nord unit was fined another 7 million euros. The Bank of
France, which supervises French banks, was fined 350,000 euros.  Christelle Maldague, a spokeswoman for Paris-based BNP,
said the check-processing program was “set up in full
transparency and in full visibility of the banking
authorities.”  Societe Generale is considering appealing the decision,
said Laura Schalk, a spokeswoman for the Paris-based bank.  Credit Agricole and Credit Lyonnais “deplore” the
decision, the lenders said in an e-mail. The interbank charges,
“which didn’t hurt any client, were put in place under the
aegis of the authorities charged with the sector” including the
Finance Ministry’s competition unit.  The Bank of France defended the check-processing system,
saying that it increased security for consumers and the
financial system.  The other banks didn’t immediately comment on the decision.  For more, click here.  New York Man Gets Probation in Foreign-Exchange Scheme  A New York man received five years’ probation for
defrauding his customers of more than $66 million they thought
was invested in the foreign-exchange market and instead was
spent on art and an Aston Martin car.  Bradley D. Eisner was sentenced yesterday by U.S. District
Judge Dora Irizarry in Brooklyn, New York. He pleaded guilty in
July 2008 and cooperated with the government. He agreed to
forfeit more than $28 million, prosecutors said in March.  “This is an extraordinary case,” the judge said. “But
for Mr. Eisner coming forward, we wouldn’t be sitting here
today.”  Michael R. MacCaull, Eisner’s partner in Great Neck, New
York-based Razor FX, was sentenced in March to 15 years and
eight months. MacCaull, who also pleaded guilty in the Razor FX
case, spent 13 months in prison after pleading guilty in 2001 in
a crackdown on Sterling Foster & Co., a defunct New York boiler-
room firm that manipulated stock prices. He’s in federal prison
in Fort Dix, New Jersey.  The case is U.S. v. Eisner, 08-cr-401, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  Hochfelder Sentenced to Prison for as Long as 8 Years  Adam Hochfelder, co-founder of the real estate investment
company Max Capital Management Corp., was sentenced to as long
as eight years in prison for stealing about $20 million from
banks, friends and family.  Justice Michael Obus pronounced the prison sentence of two
years eight months to eight years yesterday in New York state
Supreme Court in Manhattan and ordered Hochfelder to pay $9.5
million in restitution. Hochfelder, 39, pleaded guilty in May to
15 counts of grand larceny and three counts of scheming to
defraud.  Hochfelder is a former chairman and chief executive officer
of New York-based Max Capital, which he helped start in 1996
with Richard Kalikow. Max Capital’s properties included the
Helmsley building at 230 Park Avenue in Manhattan.  Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. said Hochfelder
misrepresented the value of his personal holdings and collateral
to obtain millions of dollars in loans from a childhood friend,
an uncle and two banks. He also got a family member to invest
$1.3 million in a fictitious business, Vance’s office said in
May, when it announced the plea.  “Not one day has gone by in the last several years that I
have not felt great remorse and great regret for what I have
done,” Hochfelder said yesterday in court. He said he had
already paid back millions of dollars. “I will complete the
payment to all of you,” he said.  The cases are People v. Hochfelder, 01979-2008 and 00050-
2010, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Standard Chartered Urges Judge to Dismiss Beauty Tycoon’s Suit  Standard Chartered Bank Ltd.  urged a Hong Kong judge to
throw out a local beauty tycoon’s lawsuit, with the bank’s
lawyer claiming the business owner didn’t suffer any losses on
her Lehman Brothers-related investment.  Joyce Tsang Yue, chairwoman and founder of  Modern Beauty
Salon Holdings Ltd. , can’t sue as a beneficiary of a trust that
incurred the investment losses, Russell Coleman, a lawyer
representing the bank, said yesterday at a hearing.  “If there is a claim, it’s a claim that belongs to the
trust,” Coleman said. “This plaintiff has no standing to
sue.”  Tsang filed a $1.65 million (HK$12.9 million) claim against
Standard Chartered in December after she invested, on the
recommendation of a bank employee, some of the trust’s funds in
a product linked to bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ,
according to her lawyer Edward Chan.  The case is  Tsang Yue Joyce  and Standard Chartered Bank
(Hong Kong) Ltd., Standard Chartered Trust (Cayman) Ltd.,
HCA2488/2009 in the High Court of Hong Kong.  For more, click here.  Singapore Central Bank Vows More Action After Share-Rigging Win  Singapore’s central bank said its victory in the country’s
first civil lawsuit for stock rigging against fund manager Tan
Chong Koay and Pheim Asset Management Sdn. shows its
determination to enforce market rules.  Tan and his Malaysian fund management company were fined
S$250,000 ($187,000) each for manipulating United Envirotech
Ltd.’s  share  price in December 2004 to maintain their
performance benchmarks and boost their reputation, according to
a Sept. 17 ruling by Justice Lai Siu Chiu.  “There are relatively few prosecutions and even fewer
convictions in the Commonwealth for market manipulation,” as
they may be difficult to detect, said Alvin Yeo, senior partner
at Singapore-based Wong Partnership LLP. “The lesson that fund
managers might take away is that industry practices such as
window-dressing, which are assumed to be widely acceptable, may
not be.”  Singapore, which expanded its fund management industry to a
record  S$1.2 trillion  at the end of 2009, joins other financial
centers in cracking down on market misconduct.  Tan, 60, and Pheim declined to comment, saying they are
studying the judgment and working out their options before
making a decision on an appeal, according to an e-mailed
statement on Sept. 18. from Wong Soohow, Tan’s spokesman.  The case is Monetary Authority of Singapore and Tan Chong
Koay, Pheim Asset Management Sdn Bhd., S658/2008/P in the
Singapore High Court.  For more, click here.  Egypt’s Property Companies See Foreigners Exit Amid Court Cases  Foreign investors are selling shares of Egyptian real-
estate companies on concern that court cases may force
developers to pay more for past land purchases, according to two
analysts.  A court on Sept. 14 upheld a ruling canceling the sale of
33 million square meters (355 million square feet) of government
land on Cairo’s outskirts to  Talaat Moustafa Group Holding , the
country’s biggest publicly traded developer. A case was filed
against  Palm Hills Developments SAE , the second-biggest
developer, by Hamdy Fakhrany, a private Egyptian citizen,
seeking the annulment of its land purchase in New Cairo. Both
cases were linked to irregularities in selling government land.  “We’re seeing a sell-off by foreign and institutional
investors,” said Osama Mahmoud, team head of the foreign sales
desk at Cairo-based Prime Holding. “Some people are panicking,
but most are selling part of their holdings and waiting to see
what’s going to happen.”  Foreign investors, who were the net buyers of 126.7 million
shares on the Egypt’s benchmark  EGX30 Index  until Sept. 14,
became net sellers of 54.3 million shares in the three days
after the ruling against Talaat Moustafa, according to data
compiled by Cairo-based EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. Talaat Moustafa
and Palm Hills accounted for more than a quarter of trading
volume during the period, according to Bloomberg calculations.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Potential Lawsuits  UBS Holders Urge Bank to Consider Legal Action on Ex-Executives  UBS AG  shareholders sent a letter to Chairman Kaspar
Villiger urging him to reconsider the bank’s decision not to
pursue legal action against former executives and board members.  Deminor, Actares and Euroshareholders “strongly request”
the board of directors of the Zurich-based bank to confirm by
Oct. 7 that it will reconsider the decision, the investors said
in the letter, dated Sept. 17 and sent to media by e-mail
yesterday. They didn’t disclose how many UBS shares they hold or
represent.  UBS, which amassed more than $57 billion in writedowns and
losses in the credit crisis, last year decided not to file
charges against former executives after about 10 internal and
external investigations.  Villiger told shareholders that the board will address the
question of possible legal action again, adding that he still
doesn’t expect lawsuits to follow because investigations haven’t
found sufficient evidence.  Deminor and Actares have said they may consider taking
legal action themselves if they find enough large shareholders
to support them.  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Pershing, Winthrop Seek Halt of Stuyvesant Foreclosure  Pershing Square Capital Management LP and  Winthrop Realty
Trust  sought a court order halting the lender foreclosure of New
York City’s Stuyvesant Town Peter Cooper Village apartment
complex.  Pershing, a hedge fund run by William Ackman, and Winthrop
filed a request yesterday with a state appeals court in
Manhattan seeking to stay the Oct. 4 foreclosure planned by
senior debt holders, said Edward Weisfelner, a lawyer for
Pershing and Winthrop, in an interview. The firms are seeking to
control the residential complex on Manhattan’s east side.  The move comes after Pershing and Winthrop, both junior
debt holders, lost their bid to proceed with their own
foreclosure sale. A lower court judge last week issued a
preliminary injunction blocking their attempt. Yesterday’s
motion includes a bid for an expedited appeal.  CWCapital Asset Management LLC, the special servicer for
the senior mortgage, is seeking to move forward with its
foreclosure after Stuyvesant Town owner Tishman Speyer
Properties LP defaulted on its $3 billion senior loan and $1.4
billion of mezzanine, or junior, debt.  Greg Cross, a lawyer for CWCapital, declined comment.  The appeals court case is Bank of America NA v. PSW NYC
LLC, 10-651293, New York State Supreme Court, Appellate
Division, First Department (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Dow Chemical Unit Stands Trial Over Illinois Cancer Cluster  A  Dow Chemical Co.  unit caused about 30 residents of an
Illinois community to develop brain cancer because of industrial
pollution from one of its plants, a lawyer told jurors.  A plant operated by Dow subsidiary Rohm & Haas dumped and
leaked vinyl chloride, a byproduct of the plastics-making
process, poisoning the air and water around McCullom Lake in
northwestern Illinois, Aaron Freiwald, the residents’ lawyer,
told a Philadelphia jury yesterday. Dow bought Philadelphia-
based Rohm & Haas for $15.7 billion last year.  For 17 years, Rohm & Haas workers dumped “toxic chemical
waste that causes cancer” into a pit at the Ringwood, Illinois-
based plant, Freiwald, who represents the family of Franklin
Branham, said in opening statements of a lawsuit over his death.  McCullom Lake residents contend the brain cancers suffered
by Branham and others resulted from decades of exposure to
carcinogenic vinyl chloride. Branham died in 2004 at age 63,
according to court filings. Rohm & Haas officials dispute
assertions that pollution from the plant fouled area wells or
that the community is suffering from a pollution-related cancer
cluster.  “The science will show chemicals from the Ringwood plant
did not cause Mr. Branham’s cancer,” Kevin Van Wart, Rohm &
Haas’s lawyer, told jurors in his opening statement.  Judge Allan Tereshko, who is presiding over the case in
Philadelphia Common Pleas Court, told jurors yesterday the trial
could last as long as 10 weeks.  The case is Joanne Branham v. Rohm & Haas Co., May Term
2006, 003590, Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County
(Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  Yum! Brands KFC Unit’s Trial Begins Over ‘Grill Baby Grill’  Yum! Brands Inc.’s  Kentucky Fried Chicken unit and some of
its franchisees are embroiled in a battle over advertisements
for crispy-versus-grilled products in a nonjury trial that began
yesterday in Delaware.  The franchisee-dominated KFC National Council and
Advertising Cooperative Inc., which designs marketing programs
for the world’s most popular chicken restaurant chain, contends
that KFC President Roger Eaton is seeking to promote grilled
chicken over the company’s traditional product.  “It was ‘grill baby grill’” even though sales were
falling and it seemed “things went to hell in a hand basket,”
franchisee John R. Neal, who has 201 stores in 11 states,
testified yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  The council’s January lawsuit contends ads for the company
have been “lopsided towards grilled chicken” and asked Judge
Leo Strine Jr. to determine who has authority to decide what to
advertise.  The council has 17 board members, 13 of them representing
franchisees that operate 83 percent of KFC outlets. KFC “has
recently taken the position that KFC Corp. has the sole
authority” to direct advertising, and the council can’t
“modify or suggest changes” to KFC proposals, according to
court papers.  Yum, based in Louisville, Kentucky, has said the lawsuit is
“baseless.”  The case is KFC National Council v. KFC Corp., CA5191,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Tax Fraud Trial Witness Denies Signing Documents  A prosecution witness at the tax fraud trial of hotel
developer Mauricio Cohen Assor and his son testified yesterday
that he never signed documents showing he owned companies at the
heart of the case.  Cohen Assor, 77, and his son, Leon Cohen Levy, 46, are on
trial in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, accused of conspiring to
defraud the Internal Revenue Service and filing false tax
returns that concealed income and $150 million in assets. Cohen
Assor hid assets through companies listed in the names of
others, including his brother-in-law, Habib Levy Sibony,
prosecutors say.  Levy Sibony testified he didn’t sign documents showing he
owned a British Virgin Islands corporation, Whitebury Shipping
Time-Sharing Ltd. Prosecutors say Cohen Assor used Whitebury to
hide a $45 million investment portfolio from the IRS. Cohen
Assor and his son deny they owned Whitebury. Levy Sibony said he
didn’t sign a series of Whitebury documents.  “It’s not my signature,” Levy Sibony, a resident of
Caracas, told jurors in Spanish, as an interpreter translated.
“Supposedly, it’s my signature. But it’s not.”  Prosecutors are trying to show that Cohen Assor and his son
used forged documents and false statements to defraud the IRS.  The case is USA v. Assor, 10-cr-60159, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For more, click here.  James Hardie Industries to Appeal Australia Tax Dispute Ruling  James Hardie Industries , the biggest seller of home siding
in the U.S., said it will appeal an Australian federal court
ruling saying it owes back taxes on a A$478 million ($449
million) gain from a 1999 reorganization.  Federal Court of Australia Judge Margaret Stone on Sept. 1
upheld the Australian Taxation Office’s decision that Dublin-
based James Hardie’s RCI unit owed the taxes, which the company
said may result in a $330 million charge.  James Hardie “will remain in compliance with its debt
covenants should a charge be taken,” the company said yesterday
in a statement. “No cash will be required to be exchanged
between RCI and the ATO until the matter has been ultimately
resolved” except for quarterly interest payments on an unpaid
balance of $168.8 million.  RCI was a holding company for James Hardie Group’s non-
Australian operations and owned all the shares of a U.S. unit
that held the company’s U.S. operations. In October 1998 RCI
sold its shares in the U.S. unit to a new European holding
company which planned to sell stock to the public. The initial
public offering in the European unit didn’t proceed.  The case is RCI Pty Ltd. v. Commissioner of Taxation of the
Commonwealth of Australia, NSD1336/2007, Federal Court of
Australia (Sydney).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 