-- ConAgra First-Quarter Profit Falls 12%; Company Lowers Earnings Forecast
-- B y   I a n   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-09-21T20:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/conagra-first-quarter-profit-falls-12-company-lowers-earnings-forecast.html
ConAgra Foods Inc. , the maker of
Banquet and Healthy Choice dinners, posted a 12 percent drop in
first-quarter earnings, hurt by slowing sales in its consumer-
foods business. The company lowered its profit forecast.  Profit, excluding some items, totaled 34 cents a share, the
Omaha, Nebraska-based company said in a statement. The average
of analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was 39 cents.  The consumer business, which accounted for about two-thirds
of sales, faced increasing competition, with ConAgra spending on
promotional programs for frozen foods, table spreads and
popcorn. Sales from the promotions fell short of expectations,
hobbled by the “difficult retail environment,” ConAgra said.  “There’s an intense battle going on in the grocery
aisles,”  Jack Russo , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in St.
Louis, said in a telephone interview. “Management seems
optimistic that the second half will get better, but I’m not
sure that’s going to be good enough for the Street,” said
Russo, who rates the stock a “hold.”  ConAgra  fell  80 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $21.57 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , the most
since March. The shares have fallen 6.4 percent this year.  Per-share annual profit, excluding some items, will climb 5
percent to 7 percent from a year earlier, ConAgra said. That
compares with the 8 percent to 10 percent the company  projected 
in June. The new target amounts to $1.83 to $1.86 a share, which
compares with the $1.89 average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Net income  in the quarter ended Aug. 29 fell to $146.4
million, or 33 cents a share, from $165.9 million, or 37 cents,
a year earlier. Revenue fell 2.4 percent to $2.82 billion.  “Make no mistake about it, I am disappointed in our
performance in Q1,” Chief Executive Officer  Gary Rodkin  said on
a conference call. “But I am confident in our outlook based on
the strong foundation we’ve built and our ability to operate in
this environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Thomson  in New York at 
 ithomson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 Rajello@bloomberg.net  