-- Copper Declines as Uneven U.S. Recovery Tempers Gain in Asia Metals Demand
-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 2010-09-21T17:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/copper-declines-as-uneven-u-s-recovery-tempers-gain-in-asia-metals-demand.html
Copper prices fell for the second
straight day on speculation that an uneven U.S. economic
recovery will erode demand for the industrial metal.  The Federal Reserve is expected to keep borrowing costs at
record lows to bolster the economy as home sales remain slack.
Copper inventories monitored by the Shanghai Futures Exchange
fell to the lowest level in 11 months. Before today, prices rose
26 percent in the past year as manufacturing increased in China,
the world’s biggest metal user.  “Copper is at a technical point where it’s looking for
direction,” said  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at Integrated
Brokerage Services in Chicago. “The Chinese will provide long-
term support for the market with continued drawdowns in above-
ground stock. But absent new economic stimulus in the U.S.,
copper is susceptible to a downside correction.”  Copper futures for December delivery fell 2.35 cents, or
0.7 percent, to settle at $3.481 a pound at 1:24 p.m. on the
Comex in New York. The metal has gained 4 percent this year.  Inventories fell 3.9 percent to 94,365 tons, the Shanghai
exchange said today. That’s the lowest level since the week
ended Oct. 9, 2009. Financial markets in China are closed from
yesterday to Sept. 24 for the Mid-Autumn Festival.  Builders in the U.S. broke ground on more homes in July
than estimated by economists. Housing starts gained 10.5 percent
to a 598,000 annual rate, the Commerce Department said today,
above the 550,000 estimated in a Bloomberg News survey. The U.S.
is the second-largest copper consumer.  “The data suggest that the U.S. housing sector is slowly
pulling itself off the canvas after a knockout punch,” said
 David Thurtell , an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in London.
Construction accounts for a quarter of demand for copper, used
in wiring and plumbing, according to the Copper Development
Association.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell $35, or 0.5 percent, to $7,680 a metric ton ($3.48 a
pound). Aluminum, lead, nickel, tin and zinc also declined.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  