-- Soybeans Rise for Third Day on Concern About Brazilian, Argentine Sowing
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-09-21T13:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/corn-futures-drop-for-a-second-day-after-harvesting-of-u-s-crop-advances.html
Soybeans rose for a third day in
Chicago on concern that hot, dry weather in Brazil and Argentina
may delay planting and reduce sowing of the oilseed.  Soybeans for November delivery climbed 0.2 percent to
$10.8625 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:14 p.m.
Paris time, paring a gain of as much as 0.9 percent. Prices
yesterday touched a 15-month high of $10.995.  Conditions in Brazil’s top soybean-growing state of Mato
Grosso are “exceptionally hot and dry,” agricultural weather
forecaster  Martell Crop Projects  said in a Sept. 17 report. A La
Nina weather pattern, which can cause below-average rains in
parts of Argentina and southern Brazil, is strengthening, the
Australian Bureau of Meteorology said Sept. 15.  “Soy prices are progressing significantly, boosted by
weather conditions in Argentina and Brazil,” Paris-based farm
adviser  Agritel  said on its website today. “Mato Grosso lacks
water and planting is being delayed, and a return of the rains
will be necessary for correct germination of the crops.”  Brazil is the world’s second-largest grower of soybeans
after the U.S., and Argentina ranks third.  December-delivery corn declined 0.1 percent to $5.0775 a
bushel, falling for a second day.  An estimated 18 percent of the U.S. corn crop was harvested
as of Sept. 19, up from 11 percent a week earlier and above the
previous five-year average of 10 percent, the nation’s
Department of Agriculture said in a report yesterday.  Indian Corn Crop  The corn harvest in India, Asia’s second-biggest grower,
may exceed 20 million metric tons in the year to June 2011,
beating the 19.73 million-ton record in 2009 and increasing
exports, after above-normal rains aided crops,  Atul Chaturvedi ,
president of Adani Enterprises Ltd., said yesterday. Adani is
the country’s biggest non-state trader of farm goods.  The USDA estimates India’s corn exports may double to 2
million tons this season from the prior period, with output
forecast at 20 million tons, according to a Sept. 10 report.  December-delivery wheat slipped 0.6 percent to $7.2775 a
bushel. Milling wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe
in Paris fell 0.4 percent to 232.75 euros ($306) a ton.  Rains were forecast in Ukraine and central to northern
Russia, helping replenish soil moisture needed for early
development of winter wheat, Telvent DTN Inc. said yesterday.  “We are nervous about our long position in wheat,”
economist  Dennis Gartman  said in a daily newsletter. “A good,
hard bout of selling and forced liquidation by the funds would
do much to return the market to better health, and perhaps a
journey closer to the sidelines is reasonable at this point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 