-- Corporate Hybrid Bond Sales in Europe Jump to Five-Year High of $7 Billion
-- B y   K a t e   H a y w o o d   a n d   S o n j a   C h e u n g
-- 2010-09-21T09:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/corporate-hybrid-bond-sales-in-europe-jump-to-five-year-high-of-7-billion.html
Sales of European corporate hybrid
bonds, shunned by investors in the credit crisis, surged to a
five-year high of 5.2 billion euros ($6.8 billion) in 2010 as
investors snap up the high-yielding equity-like securities.  RWE AG, Germany’s second-largest power company, raised 1.75
billion euros from the bonds yesterday, following sales this
month from issuers including  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc  and
 Suez Environnement SA , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales from non-bank issuers may reach 8 billion euros in 2011,
said  Jeroen Van Den Broek , a credit strategist at ING Groep NV.  Investors demand a yield premium of 305 basis points on
average to buy the bonds, or three times the spread on highly
rated senior corporate debt, according to BNP Paribas SA.
Corporate hybrid bond sales stalled in 2007 and spreads widened
to as much as 953 basis points last year as buyers avoided the
notes that allow issuers to defer coupons without defaulting.  “Corporate hybrids offer yield pick-up over traditional
corporate bonds and for some investors that’s too good an
opportunity to miss,” said  Craig Shute , a fixed-income
portfolio manager at London & Colonial Group Ltd. who helps
oversee about $500 million.  Companies typically sell hybrid debt, which is treated
partly as equity by ratings firms, to raise capital without
hurting credit rankings. The notes yield more than conventional
debt because holders are repaid after senior creditors.  RWE, Siemens  Essen-based RWE’s issue was the largest since  Siemens AG ,
Europe’s biggest engineering company, raised $2.4 billion from
hybrid bonds in August 2006, Bloomberg data show. That was the
last sale in Europe by a non-financial company until Dutch
electricity-grid operator TenneT Holding BV raised 500 million
euros from the debt in February this year, Bloomberg data show.  RWE’s perpetual notes were priced to yield 265 basis points
more than the five-year benchmark swap rate, Bloomberg data
show. That’s double the 133 basis-point spread on European
investment-grade company bonds, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
bond index shows. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “Companies are now selling hybrids to take advantage of
yield-hungry investors,” said  Richard Birrer , a credit analyst
at BNP Paribas in London. “It makes sense for them to sell
deeply subordinated bonds now while all-in borrowing costs are
low.”  Call Dates  RWE can redeem its fixed-rate notes in 2015 and 2020. If
the notes aren’t called within 10 years, the coupon changes to a
floating rate equal to the initial spread plus 100 basis points
more than the  euro interbank offered rate , or Euribor. Suez
Environnement, Europe’s second-largest water company, used a
similar structure when it sold 750 million euros of hybrid bonds
last week.  “If these companies continue to perform and the hybrids
run to the call dates smoothly, they will have proven a good
opportunity for investors to boost returns and it’s increasingly
hard for them to pass that up,” said  Ian Robinson , who helps
manage 95 billion pounds ($147 billion) as a portfolio manager
at F&C Asset Management Plc in London.  Not all investors favor hybrid bonds because the
uncertainty about when the long-dated debt will be repaid means
prices in the secondary market fluctuate more than traditional
corporate securities.  “Hybrids will remain a fairly volatile area of the
corporate bond market and investors have to be comfortable with
the relatively high volatility to have them in their funds,”
said London & Colonial’s Shute, who doesn’t buy hybrid bonds.  The notes have become more attractive after Moody’s
Investors Service published details on how it grades the notes
according to their ability to absorb losses when the issuer is
in financial trouble. The July report by Moody’s followed
similar revisions by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  “It was a waiting game while Moody’s reviewed its criteria
and until then, uncertainty was definitely hanging over the
market,” said  Wayne Hiley , head of the European investment-
grade corporate bond syndicate at Barclays Capital in London.
“Now we have certainty from the ratings agencies and there is
ample investor demand for the product.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonja Cheung  in London 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  