-- Corporate Credit Risk Benchmark in U.S. Rises After Fed Meeting
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-09-21T23:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/corporate-credit-risk-benchmark-in-rises-after-federal-reserve-meeting.html
A benchmark indicator of U.S.
corporate credit risk rose after the Federal Reserve said it may
resume asset purchases to bolster the slowing economic recovery.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
added 2 basis points to a mid-price of 108.7 basis points as of
5:23 p.m. in New York.  Today was the first full day of trading after index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.’s semi-annual adjustment of
companies included in the measure. The Fed’s Open Market
Committee statement bolstered speculation that Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke will purchase additional U.S. debt in an effort to
lower long-term interest rates, a process known as quantitative
easing.  “The fact that we need to wield the ‘QE’ hammer is sign
enough that growth concerns and deflation are a major factor and
recent gains in stocks have far exceeded credit performance this
month,”  Tim Backshall , chief strategist at Credit Derivatives
Research LLC in Walnut Creek, California, wrote in an e-mail.  Credit-swap contracts on  Pitney Bowes  Inc. climbed for a
fifth day, adding 14.2 basis points to a record 156.7 after
Fitch Ratings revised the world’s largest maker of postal meters
outlook to negative.  Swaps on  Ally Financial Inc. , whose  GMAC Mortgage  unit
halted evictions in 23 states amid allegations of mishandled
affidavits, added 24.5 basis points to 387.9, CMA data show. The
auto and home lender majority owned by the U.S. said yesterday
its filings contained no false claims about home loans.  New Series  The Markit index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves, yesterday rolled to new series. Series 15
began trading as much as 5.5 basis points wider than Series 14,
according to broker Phoenix Partners Group.  The Federal Open Market Committee said in its statement
that it’s prepared “to provide additional accommodation if
needed to support economic recovery and to return inflation,
over time, to levels consistent with its mandate.”  The Fed’s benchmark  interest rate  has been in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings decreased 1.1 basis points to 109.9,
and the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on
50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 3.2
basis points to 508.5, Markit prices show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  