-- Oil Declines on Forecast of Drop in U.S. Refinery Operations
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 2010-09-21T20:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/crude-oil-futures-decline-on-forecast-of-drop-in-u-s-refinery-operations.html
Oil fell to the lowest level this
month before a government report that may show U.S. refineries
operated at their lowest rate in five months, signaling less
demand for crude to process into fuels.  Refineries ran at 86.8 percent of capacity last week,
according to the median estimate of 17 analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Petroleum supplies  in the U.S., the world’s largest
oil consumer, are near the highest level in 20 years. The Energy
Department will release last week’s data at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow
in Washington.  “We’re seeing some reluctance from the refinery sector to
buy crude, given high product stocks,” said  Michael Lynch ,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
Massachusetts. “We’re still waiting to get some news which
suggests we’re getting a recovery.”  Crude for October delivery dropped $1.34, or 1.8 percent,
to settle at $73.52 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the lowest closing price since Aug. 31. October
futures expired at the close of floor trading. The more-active
November contract lost $1.22, or 1.6 percent, to $74.97.  November prices declined from the settlement after the
American Petroleum Institute reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S.
crude-oil stockpiles increased 2.23 million barrels to 364.1
million, the highest level in almost four months. The contract
fell $1.46, or 1.9 percent, to $74.73 a barrel in electronic
trading at 4:31 p.m.  Crude Supplies  U.S. crude supplies probably slipped 1.75 million barrels
from 357.4 million, according to the survey. Gasoline stockpiles
dropped 25,000 barrels from 224.5 million, and stockpiles of
distillate fuel, including heating oil and diesel, grew by
100,000 barrels last week, the first increase in four weeks, the
survey showed.  Oil’s decline “seems like some expiration excitement, and
it’s been inspired by that glut of supply we have,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in Chicago.  Overall
petroleum supplies , a combination of oil and other fuels,
slipped 0.3 percent last week from a 20-year high to 1.14
billion barrels. Inventories rose for the prior 13 weeks.  U.S. gasoline  demand  rebounded from a 23-month low last
week,  MasterCard Inc.  reported today. Motorists bought an
average 9.01 million barrels a day of the motor fuel, up 1.9
percent from the prior week, according to the weekly
SpendingPulse report. It was the first increase in five weeks.  Gasoline for October delivery lost 3 cents, or 1.5 percent,
to settle at $1.9196 a gallon on the Nymex.  Federal Reserve  Federal Reserve policy makers meeting in Washington said
they are willing to ease monetary policy further to boost the
economy and lower unemployment. The Federal Open Market
Committee today refrained from expanding holdings of securities.  “The committee will continue to monitor the economic
outlook and financial developments and is prepared to provide
additional accommodation if needed to support the economic
recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate,” the FOMC said today in a 2:15
p.m. statement.  The National Bureau of Economic Research, the accepted
arbiter of when economic slumps start and end, said the longest
and deepest U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended in
June 2009.  Payrolls dropped in 36 U.S. states in August, indicating
the labor market will take time to rebound from the recession,
figures from the Labor Department showed today in Washington.  Housing starts increased more than forecast in August, as
builders began work on 598,000 homes, at an annual rate. That’s
up 10.5 percent and the most since April, according to the
Commerce Department.  Brent Crude  Brent crude oil for November settlement lost 90 cents, or
1.1 percent, to $78.42 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Brent’s premium to the New York November
contract strengthened to $3.45 a barrel from $3.13 yesterday.  The price spread has widened as growing U.S. inventories
and the restart of an Enbridge Energy Partners LP crude pipeline
weighed on New York futures. U.S. oil supplies were 13 percent
above the five-year average in the week ended Sept. 10,
according to the Energy Department.  The higher inventories have also made Nymex oil for near-
term delivery less expensive than oil in future months, a
condition known as contango.  “There’s a lot of bleeding in the October contract, a lot
of people caught long when you had the pipeline problem,” said
 Fred Rigolini , vice president of Paramount Options Inc. in New
York.  Enbridge Pipeline  Enbridge started its 6A oil pipeline, the largest conduit
linking Canada and to refiners in the Midwest, on Sept. 17 after
a leak in Illinois on Sept. 9 shut the line.  “The restart of Enbridge pipeline  supplies  to the Midwest
has restored crude supplies from Canada, and WTI November
futures have rapidly slumped to a fresh record discount against
the corresponding Brent futures,” Lawrence Eagles, head of
commodities research at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, said
in a report today.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 629,188
contracts as of 3:12 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 651,870
contracts yesterday, 3.3 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.34 million contracts, the
lowest level in a week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margot Habiby  in Dallas at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 