-- Lloyds No Closer to Finding CEO as Daniels Plans to Step Down
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-09-21T06:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/daniels-departure-as-lloyds-ceo-leaves-bank-struggling-to-find-replacement.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc  started to
plan for Chief Executive Officer  Eric Daniels ’s departure in
March. Six months on, Daniels is preparing to retire and the
lender is no closer to finding his replacement.  Daniels will step down within the next 12 months as the
bank seeks a successor, the London-based lender said in a
statement yesterday. There isn’t a clear favorite to replace
him, according to  analysts  and investors, who cited executives
from Nationwide CEO  Graham Beale  to Lloyds’s consumer banking
chief  Helen Weir  as potential candidates for the role.  The next Lloyds CEO must navigate the sale of 600 branches
by 2013 to comply with European Union government-aid rules,
bring down the highest loan-to-deposit ratio of Britain’s
biggest banks and convince a government-appointed commission not
to break up the country’s largest  mortgage  lender. The bank,
which is now profitable, is also prohibited from paying
 dividends  until at least 2012 after taking a government bailout.  “It’s a tough job, because the outlook for the banks is
not that great,” said  Jane Coffey , head of U.K. equities at
Royal London Asset Management, which manages $51 billion
including Lloyds  shares . “It’s going to be highly regulated.
There’s not going to be as much opportunity to make money either
working for the bank or owning the shares.”  Daniels, 59, led Lloyds’ takeover of HBOS Plc in September
2008, a purchase that forced the lender to seek a 17 billion-
pound ($27 billion) rescue that left the government with a 41
percent stake in the bank. Lloyds is the third of Britain’s four
biggest banks to announce a change in leadership after Barclays
Plc CEO  John Varley  and HSBC Holdings Plc Chairman  Stephen Green 
said they would step down this month.  Varley, Diamond  Barclays, Britain’s third-biggest lender, named Robert
Diamond CEO when it announced Varley’s retirement on Sept. 7.
HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank, plans to pick Green’s successor
before the end of this month, a person with knowledge of the
situation said Sept. 10. If the board decides against promoting
CEO  Michael Geoghegan , the most likely candidate to succeed
Green is  John Thornton , chairman of the lender’s North American
division, the person said.  Lloyds began its search for Daniels’s successor in March.
That month, the lender hired JCA Group, a recruitment firm, to
draw up a shortlist of candidates to replace Daniels as a
contingency measure, a person familiar with the situation said
at the time. Officials at the London-based firm weren’t
available to comment.  Daniels’s Pension  Daniels is entitled to receive a pension worth 3.8 million
pounds, or 192,000 pounds a year, according to the bank’s 2009
 annual report . He may also get as much as 12.5 million Lloyds
shares, worth about 9.3 million pounds at today’s prices. That
amount may be reduced because Daniels won’t serve as CEO until
2012 and may not meet his performance targets.  Lloyds Chairman  Win Bischoff  said yesterday the lender
hasn’t drawn up a shortlist of candidates and will consider both
internal and external candidates from the U.K. and overseas. The
bank will also be in contact with the government over any plans
to find a replacement, he added.  “It may not be that attractive a role,” said Matrix
Corporate Capital LLP analyst  Andrew Lim , who has a “buy”
rating on Lloyds. Anyone taking the post will need to continue
the integration of HBOS, reduce costs and control the balance
sheet, he said.  The shares jumped 2.8 percent to 77.41 pence in London
 trading  yesterday, valuing the company at 52.8 billion pounds.
The shares have gained 52 percent this year, making them the
second-best performing U.K. bank stock after  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , the recipient of the biggest of the biggest
government bailout in the U.K.  Job Candidates  Potential candidates for the Lloyds job also include  Frits Seegers , former Barclays Plc retail banking head,  Stuart Gulliver , HSBC Holdings Plc investment banking head, and  Paul Thurston , HSBC U.K. head,  Gary Hoffman , Northern Rock Plc CEO,
and  Gordon Nixon , CEO of Royal  Bank of Canada , according to a
report yesterday from BGC Partners Inc.  Spokesmen for Northern Rock and HSBC declined to comment,
and a spokesman for Nixon wasn’t immediately available. Seegers
couldn’t immediately be reached.  Lloyds must wean itself off 132 billion pounds of central
bank and government funding which it required after taking over
HBOS. To do so, Lloyds must reduce its balance sheet by about
200 billion pounds by 2014 by shrinking its mortgage book and
selling assets, according to its annual report.  Government Commission  The new CEO will also deal with the recommendations next
year by a U.K. government-sponsored commission inquiring into
the structure of banking. The committee will seek to boost
competition in consumer banking and, with 30 percent of the U.K.
mortgage market, Lloyds will be scrutinized by the committee.  Still, Lloyds reported a  profit  last month for the first
time since the HBOS purchase, posting a proforma pretax profit
of 1.6 billion pounds in the six months to June.  “If the next CEO can get rid of the government’s
shareholding and take Lloyds back onto a full private footing
that would be quite a feather in their cap,” said  Nic Clarke , a
London-based analyst at Charles Stanley & Co., who rates Lloyds
a “hold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  