-- Dementia Cost Burns Through 1% of Global GDP, Will Increase
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 2010-09-21T20:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/dementia-care-costs-burn-through-1-of-world-economies-will-keep-growing.html
Alzheimer’s and other dementias
will cost 1 percent of the gross domestic product globally this
year and that treatment tab will grow, making urgent the need
for more research toward a cure, an advocacy group said.  Seventy percent of an estimated $604 billion will be paid
in North America and Western Europe, the group, London-based
 Alzheimer’s Disease International , said in a report today. The
global price will exceed $1 trillion annually by 2030, with 65.7
million people affected, up from  35.6 million  in 2010, according
to the report. Alzheimer’s strikes mostly people 65 or older.  While hurting more patients than either cancer or heart
disease, dementia attracts less research money, the organization
said. Governments worldwide need to “make dementia a health
priority” as the generation of baby boomers born after World
War II begins to turn 65 next year, the group urged.  “There’s inadequate funding right now, because there is
inadequate awareness and inadequate concern,” said  Bill Thies ,
chief medical and scientific officer of the Alzheimer’s
Association, a nonprofit group based in Chicago, in a telephone
interview. “We are in the early stages of an epidemic, and
every day we waste now is a day we don’t have.”  Alzheimer’s Disease International is a federation of
national associations, including the Chicago-based group, that
press governments to allot more resources to fight dementia. The
report’s price tag for dementia reflects medical and social care
by doctors, hospitals, nursing homes and community support
services. The total also includes family members’ unpaid work,
which was assigned a value by the researchers.  World Bank Data  The group said it calculated its cost totals using data
from the Geneva-based World Health Organization and the
Washington-based World Bank, as well as cost data from countries
representing half of the worldwide dementia population and 147
studies on the prevalence of dementia globally.  In the report, which was released to mark  World Alzheimer’s
Day , the international group urged governments to increase
research funding to “a level proportionate to the economic
burden of the condition.” The paper cites published U.K. data
that show funding would have to rise 15-fold to match the
research commitment in heart disease and 30-fold to match cancer
funding.  “There’s no question that this is a public-health
crisis,” said Laura Carstensen, the director of the Center on
Longevity at Stanford University near Palo Alto, California.
“Unless we find a cure for Alzheimer’s disease, we’re facing
major, major problems with aging populations.”  ‘Ridiculously Low’  Carstensen called the amount of money allocated for
Alzheimer’s “ridiculously low,” given the numbers of people
affected.  “Alzheimer’s will be at the top of the list of global
public-health problems within the next 10 years,” she said in a
telephone interview. Carstensen isn’t an author of the
Alzheimer’s Disease International report.  In the U.S., the National Institutes of Health, the largest
single source of research money in the country, budgeted $1.1
billion for the National Institute on Aging, which leads the
agency’s work on Alzheimer’s, according to the NIH website. That
compares with more than $5 billion for the National Cancer
Institute and $4 billion for the National Heart, Lung and Blood
Institute.  On specific research grants, the NIH  website  shows that
$400 million to $500 million was budgeted annually for
Alzheimer’s from 2007 to 2010. Money from the 2009 economic
stimulus legislation pushed spending to $534 million in 2009 and
$527 million this year.  Cancer Spending  That compares with $6.13 billion for general cancer
research and more than $2.4 billion for specific types of cancer
in 2010, the website shows. NIH, based in Bethesda, Maryland,
allocated $1.9 billion for heart disease and an additional $2.36
billion for cardiovascular diseases.  “We in the U.S. have been trying for some time now to get
our policy makers to pay attention to Alzheimer’s in a way that
they would another kind of crisis,” said Harry Johns, the
president and chief executive officer of the  Alzheimer’s
Association  in the U.S. “There is no other situation where the
scale and impact are so great, and so little has been done by
our federal policy makers to change the course of the disease.”  In the U.S., the current cost is estimated at  $172 billion
a year , with 5.3 million sufferers, according to the Alzheimer’s
Association.  AIDS-Type Campaign  The U.S. and other nations need the same kind of “focused
and concerted” effort on dementia as was made in the past 20
years to alleviate  AIDS , Johns said in a telephone interview.
About $3 billion annually is spent on AIDS, he said.  “That effort has allowed that disease to move from a
certain death sentence to a chronic condition,” he said. “In
Alzheimer’s, we have no treatment that slows or stops the
disease.”  Alzheimer’s, the most common form of dementia, is the
seventh-leading cause of death in the U.S. Almost half of people
ages 85 years or up have some form of dementia, according to the
Alzheimer’s Association.  Pfizer Inc.  in New York,  Johnson &
Johnson  in New Brunswick, New Jersey and  Eli Lilly & Co.  in
Indianapolis are testing medicines aimed at treating the
disease.  The U.S. federal government needs to direct additional
funding to basic science to help researchers who are trying to
identify biomarkers and other means of early detection, said
Thies, a pharmacologist. Research should focus on preventing the
disease, as once symptoms are apparent, irreversible brain
damage is likely to have occurred already, he said.  Pending Legislation  The Alzheimer’s Association is supporting two pieces of
legislation in the U.S. Congress that would allocate $2 billion
for research and create a national plan that would outline
priorities to deal with the disease. Neither has come up for a
vote.  “I would describe what the federal government has done so
far as stunningly neglectful,” Johns of the Alzheimer’s
Association said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 