-- Broncos Wide Receiver McKinley Found Dead in Suspected Suicide at Age 23
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/denver-broncos-wide-receiver-kenny-mckinley-is-found-dead-at-the-age-of-23.html
Denver Broncos wide receiver  Kenny McKinley  was found dead yesterday at his Colorado home in a
suspected suicide. He was 23.  Although McKinley’s death is still under investigation,
Arapahoe County Sheriff Grayson Robinson said it appeared to be
the result of a self-inflicted gunshot wound.  McKinley, who was selected by the Broncos in the fifth
round of the 2009 National Football League draft, was put on
injured reserve last month with a season-ending knee problem. He
appeared in eight games as a rookie last season, being used
mostly on special teams.  “Kenny had a promising future on the football field but,
more importantly, he was a great teammate whose smile and
personality could light up the room,” Broncos coach  Josh McDaniels  said in a statement. “This is a tragic loss for our
football team and his family is in all of our thoughts and
prayers during this difficult time.”  Broncos owner  Pat Bowlen  said the organization is “shocked
and saddened” by the death of a third Broncos player in four
years.  Cornerback  Darrent Williams  was killed in a drive-by
shooting while leaving a party on Jan. 1, 2007, and linebacker
 Damien Nash  collapsed and died two months later while playing in
a charity basketball game.  McKinley played college football at the University of South
Carolina from 2005-08 and set school records with 207 receptions
for 2,781 yards.  Gamecocks coach  Steve Spurrier  said McKinley seemed to be
“in good spirits” when he attended South Carolina’s 17-6 win
over the University of Georgia on Sept. 11.  “Great smile like he always had,” Spurrier said in a
statement. “I don’t understand it if it happened the way they
say. It’s hard to comprehend. Kenny was certainly one of my
favorite all-time players. He was a wonderful guy. It’s hard to
figure out why this happened. It’s a sad day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 