-- Deutsche Bank Expects Third-Quarter Loss on Postbank
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-09-21T16:01:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/deutsche-bank-expects-third-quarter-net-loss-after-taking-postbank-charge.html
Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s largest
bank, expects to report a third-quarter loss after writing down
the value of its existing  Deutsche Postbank AG  holdings and a
slowdown in sales and trading.  Deutsche Bank plans to book a charge of 2.3 billion euros
($3 billion) on Postbank, leading to a loss in the quarter, the
Frankfurt-based lender said in a share sale  prospectus  posted on
its website today. Excluding the charge, third-quarter net
income will likely be “significantly below” the year-earlier
period because of “poorer market conditions during the summer
months,” the bank said.  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  is raising about
10.2 billion euros in Europe’s biggest rights offer this year to
acquire Postbank, helping lower dependence on investment
banking. Third-quarter pretax profit at the corporate banking
and securities unit, headed by  Anshu Jain , may be
“substantially below” the year-earlier level on lower sales
and trading, the bank said today.  “The investment banking business is volatile, so it’s
definitely better to have a somewhat stronger stable
component,” said  Andreas Plaesier , a Hamburg-based analyst at
M.M. Warburg, who recommends buying the shares. “Despite the
seasonally weak performance, Deutsche Bank’s strength remains
investment banking and demand will rebound at some point.”  Shares Decline  Deutsche Bank fell 4.5 percent to 44.75 euros in Frankfurt
trading. The stock has declined 9.5 percent this year, valuing
the company at 27.8 billion euros.  In July and August, the investment bank saw the “usual
seasonal reductions” in sales and trading revenue, which were
“more marked” than in the third quarter of 2009, Deutsche Bank
said. Origination and advisory revenue was also “proving
weaker” in those months, compared with the second quarter of
this year, with “considerably lower levels” of equity and debt
issuances, the bank said.  Pretax income in asset and wealth management declined in
July and August, from a year-earlier, on charges from Sal.
Oppenheim Group, the bank said. Pretax profit at the transaction
banking unit and retail banking division was higher than in the
respective period last year, though not sufficient to offset the
declines in other businesses, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  