-- German Stocks Fall From Six-Week High; Deutsche Bank, Bayer Shares Slide
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-09-21T16:24:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/deutsche-bank-lufthansa-shares-may-be-active-equity-preview-for-germany.html
The benchmark DAX Index fell from
its highest level in six weeks, led by declines in Deutsche Bank
AG shares after saying it expects a third-quarter net loss.  Deutsche Bank  posted the biggest decline in the DAX index.
Bayer AG slipped 1 percent as competitor Boehringer Ingelheim
GmbH won a U.S. panel’s backing for the first blood thinner to
replace warfarin, which has been the standard treatment for
preventing strokes for more than half a century.  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG  climbed as the International Air Transport
Association tripled its forecast for the industry’s profit this
year.  The DAX index  dropped 0.3 percent to 6,275.98 in Frankfurt.
The gauge remains 1.2 percent below its high for 2010 in August
amid conflicting reports about the strength of the economic
recovery and concern that some European nations will fail to
repay their debt. The broader  HDAX Index  lost 0.2 percent today.  Deutsche Bank tumbled 4.5 percent to 44.75 euros as it said
it expects to report a third-quarter net loss after writing down
the value of its existing holding in Deutsche Postbank AG.
Deutsche Bank will raise about 10.2 billion euros ($13.39
billion) in Europe’s largest rights offer this year to acquire
its smaller rival and to build up its own capital reserves.  Bayer Declines  Bayer, Germany’s largest drugmaker, slipped 1 percent to
51.82 euros. The Food and Drug Administration panel’s decision
puts Boehringer’s drug, closer to going on sale than rival
medicines being developed by Bayer, Pfizer Inc., Johnson &
Johnson and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. At stake is a share in a
market that may reach $12 billion to $15 billion a year, Bayer
Chief Executive Officer  Werner Wenning  said on Sept. 14.  HeidelbergCement  AG, the world’s third-largest cement
maker, gained 1.2 percent to 36.20 euros, the stock’s highest
price in six weeks. European construction shares climbed 1.1
percent, the best performance among the 19 industry groups in
the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Demag Cranes AG  surged 2.8 percent to 28.76 euros, the
stock’s highest price in two years. The largest maker of harbor
cranes had its price estimate raised 20 percent to 39.71 euros
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Deutsche Lufthansa , Germany’s largest airline, added 2.3
percent to 13.65 euros. The global airline industry may post an
$8.9 billion combined profit in 2010, more than triple an
earlier forecast, as the economic recovery spurs travel and
carriers avoid over-expansion, IATA said.  United Internet AG  increased 2.6 percent to 11.58 euros,
the stock’s highest price since April. Los Angeles-based MMC
agreed to sell its Mail.com e-mail business to Internet-services
provider United Internet. MMC will remain the primary global
content provider for Mail.com, the company said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 