-- Deutsche Bahn Plans High-Speed Trains to London by 2013
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-09-22T11:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/deutsche-bahn-targets-london-trains-by-2013-following-track-agreement.html
Deutsche Bahn AG  signed a
cooperation agreement with the owner of the high-speed train
track connecting London with the  Channel Tunnel , paving the way
for direct rail services between the U.K. and Germany.  The pact with High Speed 1 Ltd. initiates a process that
could allow Deutsche Bahn to run Siemens AG’s InterCityExpress
trains through the tunnel by 2013 in competition with Eurostar
Group Ltd., which operates from London to Paris and Brussels.  Deutsche Bahn aims to link the U.K. capital’s St. Pancras
station with cities in western Germany, it said in a statement
today. To do so the Berlin-based company must win authorization
from the French and British governments to run passenger trains
via  Groupe Eurotunnel SA ’s 30-mile (48 kilometer) subsea link.  “We can now focus on joint working to ensure all safety,
technical and commercial requirements are met prior to
operation,”  Ulrich Homburg , Deutsche Bahn’s board member for
passenger services, said in the statement.  Eurostar is controlled by Societe Nationale des Chemins de
fer Français, which like Deutsche Bahn is state owned.  More Competitive  Direct trains from London to Frankfurt might take about
five hours, Deutsche Bahn said. While three hours has long been
regarded as the cut-off below which trains can successfully
compete with air travel, increasing security checks and
overcrowding at airports is changing that assumption, it said.  Deutsche Bahn will begin safety tests through the tunnel
with Siemens ICE rolling stock on Oct. 19 after the European
Union in January introduced rules requiring track owners to
grant access to new operators for cross-border services.  The EU directive alone doesn’t guarantee access to the
tunnel, where only Eurostar’s specially designed trains comply
with 15-year-old safety regulations.  Deutsche Bahn’s ICE units are 200 meters long, whereas
under existing rules passenger trains using the tunnel must be
at least 375 meters between locomotives, with a continuous
aisle. In a fire, that would allow people to walk through the
train and exit opposite a gap leading to a service shaft.  Trains must also have the ability to split in two and leave
in opposite directions should one locomotive become damaged, and
to exit the tunnel even when on fire. That requires the
carriages and driver’s cab to be able to survive for at least 30
minutes, along with vital functions such as brakes.  Following the tests Deutsche Bahn will need to make a
safety case to the Channel Tunnel Intergovernmental Commission.  Should the new service go ahead, the German company will
deploy Siemens’s latest ICE3 model on the route, which will be
manufactured through 2012 and is due for authorization on High
Speed 1 and in the tunnel in 2013, it said today.  HS1 Sale  Deutsche Bahn’s interest in services to London demonstrates
investment opportunities for High Speed 1 as Britain’s coalition
government seeks to sell a 30-year concession to run the line as
part of an asset-disposal program aimed at paying down a 155
billion-pound ($243 billion) budget deficit, Paul Chapman, the
U.K. company’s managing director, said in the statement.  Paris-based Eurotunnel is one of the bidders for High Speed
1 in the GB Speedrail group that includes the infrastructure
units of shareholders Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Prudential
Plc, the U.K.-based Universities Superannuation Scheme and
French government-owned Caisse des Depots.  Another offer came from a group including Morgan Stanley’s
infrastructure unit, 3i Infrastructure Plc and the Abu Dhabi
Investment Authority, two people with knowledge of the
auction said last month.  Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-Shing ’s Cheung Kong
Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. also submitted a bid, two people
said. Canada’s Borealis Infrastructure Management, teamed with
the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan, may have made an offer, the
Daily Telegraph reported on Aug. 17, without citing anyone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  