-- Disney Earnings Leaker Hoxie Admits to Scheme With Boyfriend
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-09-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/disney-earnings-leaker-hoxie-pleads-guilty-in-fraud-scheme-with-boyfriend.html
Bonnie Hoxie, a former assistant to
 Walt Disney Co.  corporate communications chief  Zenia Mucha ,
admitted in court that she tried to sell confidential earnings
information in a scheme with her boyfriend.  Hoxie pleaded guilty yesterday to one count of conspiracy
to commit securities fraud and wire fraud, and one count of wire
fraud before U.S. Magistrate Judge  Michael Dolinger , according
to Yusill Scribner, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney’s office
in Manhattan.  As part of a plea agreement, Hoxie and prosecutors agreed
that federal sentencing guidelines, which are advisory, call for
her to get four to 10 months when she is sentenced by U.S.
District Judge  Alvin Hellerstein  on Dec. 21.  Robert Baum, Hoxie’s lawyer, said in an interview that she
remains free on a $50,000 bond and has returned to her home in
Los Angeles.  Hoxie, who was employed as Mucha’s secretary from March
through May 25, admitted to passing information about  Disney ’s
quarterly earnings to her boyfriend, Yonni Sebbag, who planned
to sell the information to investors.  In August, Sebbag pleaded guilty to wire fraud and
conspiracy to commit wire fraud and securities fraud. Sentencing
guidelines call for Sebbag to get 27 to 33 months in prison,
U.S. Magistrate Judge James Cott said in August.  Sebbag, a Moroccan citizen who faces deportation, has been
jailed since his arrest. Sebbag also agreed to forfeit the
$15,000 he earned in the scheme.  Quarterly Earnings  Prosecutors said Sebbag sent letters to at least 33
investment companies, including hedge funds, offering to sell
confidential earnings information about Burbank, California-
based  Disney .  “Hi, I have access to DISNEY’S (DIS) quarterly earnings
report before its release on 05/03/10,” one of the letters
said, according to prosecutors. “I am willing to share this
information for a fee that we can determine later. I am sorry
but I can’t disclose my identity for confidentiality reasons but
we can correspond by e-mail if you would like to discuss it.”  Hoxie and Sebbag gave undercover FBI agents posing as hedge
fund traders an internal Disney “talking points” document that
company officials planned to use during its upcoming earnings
presentation, according to prosecutors. They later passed along
Disney’s earnings per share for the quarter.  On May 14, Sebbag met with two undercover agents on Long
Island, New York, where he took $15,000 in cash for the
information, prosecutors said.  Disney has said it cooperated with prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Hoxie, 10-mag-01113, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 