-- Dollar Falls to Six-Week Low Versus Euro as Federal Reserve Offers to Ease
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-09-21T20:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/dollar-falls-as-federal-reserve-is-willing-to-ease-refrains-from-new-buys.html
The dollar declined to a six-week
low against the euro and slumped against the yen after the
Federal Reserve said it’s willing to ease monetary policy
further to bolster the U.S. economy.  The yen reached the strongest level against the greenback
since Sept. 15, when Japan sold the nation’s currency as it hit
a 15-year high that threatened to derail an export-led recovery.
The dollar fell against 15 of its 16 most-traded counterparts,
with the Swiss franc reaching parity, as investors sought a
refuge from erosion in the purchasing power of the greenback.  “It’s the threat of increasing the balance sheet that is
weighing on the dollar,” said  Jessica Hoversen , a Chicago-based
analyst at the futures broker MF Global Holdings Ltd. “It put
the dollar in an unfortunate position versus some of the
relatively higher-grossing currencies.”  The dollar fell 1.4 percent to 1.3248 per euro at 4:26 p.m.
in New York, the weakest since Aug. 9, from 1.3061 yesterday.
The yen strengthened 0.7 percent to 85.09 per dollar from 85.69.
The Swiss franc appreciated 0.8 percent to 0.9968 per dollar,
the strongest since Sept. 15, from 1.0048 yesterday.  The  MSCI World Index  of shares advanced 0.1 percent and
gold futures for December delivery surged to a record $1,289.40
an ounce.  FOMC’s View  “The committee will continue to monitor the economic
outlook and financial developments and is prepared to provide
additional accommodation if needed to support the economic
recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate,” the Federal Open Market Committee
said today in a statement in Washington.  Increased pressure on the Fed to resume quantitative
easing, or the large-scale purchase of debt, could push the
dollar to weaken against the yen, said  Alan Ruskin , global head
of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in
New York.  Japan unilaterally intervened in foreign exchange markets
on Sept. 15 for the first time since 2004. While that helped the
currency slump 3.3 percent on the day, it has since climbed 0.8
percent.  Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said today the government
will continue to intervene if necessary, and said the policy was
aimed at containing volatility.  International Intervention  Japan’s move drew a rebuke from Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs meetings of euro-region finance
ministers. Juncker said that the group was “insisting”
Japanese authorities “step back from unilateral
interventions,” speaking in Brussels last week.  The FOMC was expected to refrain from expanding its balance
sheet by purchasing securities, according to 60 of 64 analysts
surveyed Sept. 16-17. Fifty-four of 63 economists said the Fed
would leave unchanged a sentence in its statement saying high
unemployment and low inflation warrant “exceptionally low”
rates for an “extended period.”  “It seems like the obvious beneficiary is the euro,” said
 Tim O’Sullivan , chief trader at FOREX.com, a unit of the online
currency trading company Gain Capital in Bedminster, New Jersey.
“Interest rates are going to be low in the states for the near
to medium term and that’s not the case in Europe. It makes the
euro look pretty enticing.”  European Debt Sales  The euro earlier rallied versus the greenback after
investors bought the maximum amounts offered at Spanish and
Irish debt sales, reducing concern the region’s sovereign debt
crisis will worsen.  Ireland sold 1.5 billion euros ($1.97 billion) in a bond
auction, the  National Treasury Management Agency  said today.
Spain sold 7 billion euros of 12-month and 18-month bills, the
maximum target, the Bank of Spain said. Greece sold 390 million
euros of 13-week Treasury bills at a yield of 3.98 percent, the
Athens-based Public Debt Management Agency said.  Australia’s currency gained 0.7 percent to 95.42 U.S.
cents, from 94.72 cents yesterday. It touched 95.64 cents, the
strongest level since July 2008.  Reserve Bank of Australia policy makers signaled they may
need to raise interest rates given the pace of the nation’s
economic expansion.  “This is all about a willingness to entertain quantitative
easing,” Ruskin said. “It highlights the sharp distinctions of
some economies, like Sweden and Australia, where guys are
actually hiking interest rates, and the U.S.”  Canada’s currency rose against its U.S. counterpart after
the Fed announcement spurred demand for assets that benefit from
global growth. The loonie, as the currency is sometimes known,
dropped earlier after a report showed inflation unexpectedly
fell in August, raising speculation that Bank of Canada will
pause in its cycle of interest-rate increases when policy makers
meet next month.  The loonie strengthened 0.2 percent to C$1.0265 per U.S.
dollar after touching C$1.0217, compared with C$1.0282
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 