-- DSM Revamp Puts Sijbesma Under Pressure to Boost Profit, Stock
-- B y   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r
-- 2010-09-22T08:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/dsm-revamp-puts-sijbesma-under-pressure-to-boost-profit-stock.html
Royal DSM NV  investors are pressing
Chief Executive Officer  Feike Sijbesma  for evidence that a
decade-long transformation from fertilizers to health-food
ingredients is translating into higher profitability.  DSM will set goals for a unit making health-food enzymes
when it gives a strategy update tomorrow, analysts predict. The
operating profit  target  from nutrition will probably be lifted
to more than 20 percent of sales from at least 18 percent this
year, according to a survey of four analysts.  Sijbesma is approaching the end of a program in which he
sought to  sell  remaining commodity chemical businesses spanning
elastomers and maleic anhydride used in resins. DSM, which makes
artificial fibers for Royal Philips Electronics NV, is spending
more than $500 million annually on developing new products,
including enzymes for foodmakers including Nestle SA.  “They made the portfolio change, now they’ll have to show
they can make the kind of profits that come with being a niche-
category company,” said  Jan van der Hout , who helps manage
about $7.8 billion at Allianz Nederland Asset Management BV.
“It’s time they set some ambitious targets.”  Van der Hout said he’s been buying DSM  shares  ahead of
Sijbesma’s update as they’ve been “lingering for a while.”  DSM has advanced 7.8 percent in Amsterdam trading this
year, valuing the company at 7 billion euros. That compares with
a jump of 43 percent at Danisco A/S and a 30 percent advance at
Novozymes A/S, both based in Denmark.  Danisco Forecast  DSM’s 2010 earnings per share are estimated to be 11.87
times its  share price . That compares to a price-earnings ratio
of 13.81 for  Akzo Nobel NV , the world’s biggest paint maker,
23.79 for Belgium’s  Solvay SA  and 19.56 for  Danisco A/S , the
Danish maker of enzymes.  Danisco yesterday raised its target for full-year margins
and operating profit, driven by improvements in its range of
enzymes and food cultures products as well as an efficiency
drive. The company plans to announce new  goals  on Oct. 8 after
yesterday reporting quarterly profit that beat estimates.  DSM shareholders bemoan how the 108-year-old company’s
valuation remains below the level of its new peer group,
reflecting a bygone era of commodity chemicals rather than the
cutting-edge use of enzymes to enhance yoghurt or replace oil
derivates in the production of succinic acid. Other new
offerings include an enzyme to clarify beer that replaces the
need for power-consuming equipment to do the job.  The Dutch company today announced the purchase of Microbia,
a Lexington, Massachusetts-based developer of nutritional
products from renewable resources with “limited” sales.
Financial details weren’t disclosed.  Nutrition Division  DSM on Aug. 3  predicted  its nutrition division will report
higher earnings this year. That failed to revitalize its stock,
which has since declined 1.3 percent to 36.40 euros. By
contrast, shares of U.S. rival  DuPont Co.  have risen 3.6 percent
and Denmark’s Danisco have added 3.3 percent.  “It’s quite simple: the transformation they’ve gone
through and the potential that’s in the nutrition and
performance materials businesses are not reflected in the
current share price,”  Christian Vondenbusch , a Rotterdam-based
fund manager at Robeco Asset Management, which oversees about
135 billion euros, including DSM shares.  DSM spokesman  Herman Betten  declined to provide any details
about the strategy update.  Once western Europe’s No. 6 maker of polyethylene, DSM sold
its petrochemical unit to Saudi Basic Industries Corp. in 2002
for 2.5 billion euros ($3.2 billion) and used the proceeds for
the purchase of a vitamins unit from Switzerland’s Roche Holding
AG. Disposals have continued through to this year, with Sijbesma
divesting fertilizer and melamine units. Buyers are still being
sought for citric acid and elastomers operations.  Enzyme Technology  For DSM, the discoveries of an enzyme and a yeast
technology that can produce second-generation bio-fuels may
grant it access to an enzyme market worth as much as $40
billion, Nomura analyst  Jennifer Barker  wrote in a note.  With “zero value in the current stock price attributed to
DSM’s cellulosic bio-fuel technology,” DSM’s market share of 10
percent could add between 9 and 18 euros to its stock price,
Barker wrote. DSM fell 0.6 percent to 37.27 euros in Amsterdam
as of 10:15 a.m.  DSM’s nutrition unit contributed almost 80 percent to the
company’s 2009 Ebitda of 836 million euros. Competition from
low-cost Chinese manufacturers has stiffened in the market for
food supplements, yet global food companies have opted to buy
DSM vitamins, enzymes and food additives for quality reasons.
The division is poised to exceed its annual margin goal for the
fifth time in six years in 2010.  “Every time there’s some incident with a Chinese maker of
food supplements, you see that companies turn to a Western
supplier, and that means DSM,” Allianz’s van der Hout. “These
are very nice operations, but with low margins.”  Cash Question  Investors are also seeking word on what Sijbesma will do
with DSM’s cash totaling about 1.8 billion euros.  While not excluding a major purchase, Sijbesma has told
analysts “not to be surprised if it will be a multiple set of
small acquisitions.”  The company has bypassed some obvious targets such as
Danish food-ingredient maker Christian Hansen Holding A/S,
listed by its private equity owner PAI Partners in June. That
puts DSM in a position to announce higher dividends or a
buyback, said Robeco’s Vondenbusch.  “They have let some big targets pass by,” said Rotterdam-
based Vondenbusch. “Leaving cash on the balance isn’t the most
efficient option for the long term. You may also think about a
higher dividend or a share buyback.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  