-- Dubai Shares Advance as FTSE Inclusion Boosts Confidence; Arabtec Climbs
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-09-21T13:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/dubai-shares-advance-as-ftse-inclusion-boosts-confidence-arabtec-climbs.html
Dubai shares climbed to the highest
in more than four months as the outlook for corporate earnings
improved amid increased investor confidence after the FTSE Group
listed the United Arab Emirates as an emerging market.  Arabtec Holding Co. , the biggest construction company in
the U.A.E., rose to a three-month high after Kuwait’s  Global
Investment House  gave the company a “buy” recommendation.
 Aramex PJSC , the Middle East’s biggest courier company, advanced
to a more than two-year high. The  DFM General Index  jumped 0.6
percent to 1,701.15 at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai, bringing the
gain for the month to 14.6 percent.  “The inclusion of U.A.E. stocks in FTSE’s secondary
emerging markets index has improved investor sentiment as we
approach the earnings season,” said  Ziad Dabbas , a financial
analyst at  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the U.A.E.’s second-
largest lender by assets. The rally was “spurred by the Dubai
World agreement with creditors earlier this month and helped by
the FTSE inclusion.”  Shares of 21 companies, including  Emaar Properties PJSC ,
the developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper, were added to
the FTSE’s Global Equity Index after the close on Sept. 17. The
Gulf Arab country was classified as a secondary emerging market,
helping attract part of the $3 trillion of funds that track the
London-based index compiler’s benchmarks. FTSE divides emerging
markets into advanced emerging and secondary emerging markets.  Four-Month High  Dubai shares are at the highest level since May 18 after
Dubai World, one of three main state-owned holding companies, on
Sept. 10 received approval from creditors to alter the terms on
$24.9 billion of debt. Companies in the region will begin
announcing third-quarter earnings next month. About 261 million
shares  traded  in Dubai today compared with a six-month daily
average of about 138 million.  Arabtec climbed 1.6 percent to 1.93 dirhams, the highest
since June 21. The developer was assigned a price estimate of
2.40 dirhams at Global Investment. Aramex rose for a sixth day,
advancing 6.1 percent to 2.10 dirhams.  Qatar’s  QE Index  increased 0.5 percent and Abu Dhabi’s  ADX
General Index  gained 0.2 percent. Bahrain’s  measure  declined 0.1
percent and Kuwait’s  benchmark  was little changed. Saudi
Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  rose 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 