-- Dutch Caretaker Government to Cut 2011 Spending to Narrow Budget Deficit
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2010-09-21T15:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/dutch-caretaker-government-to-cut-2011-spending-to-narrow-budget-deficit.html
The Dutch caretaker government
plans to reduce 2011 spending to help narrow the country’s
budget deficit as political leaders haggle over how to form a
new coalition Cabinet.  The cuts will help narrow next year’s budget shortfall to 4
percent of gross domestic product from a June forecast by Dutch
government planning agency CPB of 4.7 percent, the government
said in its 2011 budget. This year’s deficit will be 5.8 percent
of GDP, exceeding the European Union’s 3 percent ceiling for the
second consecutive year.  “For a long time and worldwide, the consequences of the
economic crisis will continue to be felt,”  Queen Beatrix  said
today in an  address  before the budget was presented in The
Hague. “A far-reaching retrenchment package is now necessary to
also improve the position of our country in the long term.”  The Dutch Liberal Party and the Christian Democratic
Alliance last week resumed negotiations on forming a government
coalition that would be backed by Geert Wilders’ anti-Islam
Freedom Party. The parties may seek as much as 18 billion euros
($23.7 billion) in spending cuts.  The government plans to raise taxes on tobacco next year
and pare spending on child care, immigration and civil servants.  Slower Growth  “With the 2011 budget, it seems the simplest part of the
reorganization process of government finances is behind us,”
said  Maarten Leen , an economist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.
“The further reduction of the deficit, which is needed in the
coming years, will be less simple.”  The cuts proposed today will lower the spending reductions
needed to balance the budget by 2015. Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  told journalists in the Hague he expects 15.2 billion
euros in cuts will be needed instead of 18 billion euros.  The government today lowered its forecast for 2011 to show
1.5 percent economic growth, down from an earlier projection of
1.75 percent expansion. The economy, the fifth largest in the
euro region, will grow 1.75 percent this year, the Netherlands
Bureau for Economic Policy  CPB  said in the forecast, which
accompanied the budget.  The two biggest Dutch labor unions want wages raised by as
much as 3 percent next year, citing the economic recovery, news
agency ANP reported yesterday. Wage increases may drive up
inflation, which the government forecast at 1.5 percent next
year compared with an earlier estimate of 2 percent.  State Debt  The budget deficit will push up state debt in 2011 to 406
billion euros, or 66 percent of GDP, compared with 382 billion
euros, or 64 percent, this year. The country’s net interest
expenses will probably be about 11.3 billion euros in 2011, the
Ministry of Finance said.  “The debt in euros, and guilders, has never been this
high,” De Jager said. “Although we are in a caretaker
government, we will take all the measures needed” and 2011
won’t be a lost year.  The caretaker government, led by outgoing Christian
Democrat Prime Minister  Jan Peter Balkenende , refrained from
larger budget cuts for next year after it lost its mandate in
June 9 elections.  The lower house of parliament decided to postpone this
week’s budget debate until a new government is in place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 