-- Ecuador May Spend $600 Million to Cut Payrolls, Espinosa Says
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2010-09-21T11:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/ecuador-may-use-bonds-for-600-million-in-payroll-cuts-espinosa-said.html
Ecuador may spend as much as $600
million to trim older workers from government payrolls in an
effort to reduce the size of the state workforce and increase
efficiency, Labor Minister Richard Espinosa said.  Ecuador’s government plans to ask 10,000 workers aged 65 to
69 to voluntarily retire in exchange for a severance package
that would be paid half in cash and half in 3- or 5-year bonds,
Espinosa said yesterday in an interview in Quito. Workers 70 and
older would be forced to retire and get an all-cash severance.  Espinosa’s comments reveal some details about how the
government would pay the costs associated with the layoffs,
which President  Rafael Correa  first proposed to lawmakers in
July 2009. The bill is under debate, and Espinosa predicted the
measure will become law by Oct. 10.  The law seeks “a much more efficient state with innovative
professionals and new ideas,” Espinosa, a 38-year-old former
marketing executive, said from his offices in central Quito.
“We need to generate change in a much faster way than we are
doing now.”  Paying retirees with bonds could hurt Ecuador’s credit
rating by increasing government  debt , said  Ramiro Crespo , head
of Quito-based brokerage Analytica Securities CA Casa de
Valores.  “The state doesn’t have a lot of liquidity,” Crespo said
in a telephone interview. “The worry is that they’ve talked
about paying contractors with bonds, now they are doing it with
retirees, who knows what could come tomorrow.”  Ecuador has a Caa3 long-term foreign currency credit rating
from Moody’s Investors Service, eight levels below investment
grade, while Standard and Poor’s rates the country’s debt B-,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The government
defaulted on $3.2 billion of debt in 2008.  The yield on Ecuador’s 9.375 percent bonds maturing in 2015
has risen 86 basis points, or 0.86 percentage point, this year
to 11.86 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The price
has declined to 91 cents on the dollar.  Ecuador’s Urban and Housing Development Minister Walter
Solis said in June that the government may begin paying public-
works contractors with domestic bonds as a lack of financing
limits its ability to pay in cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  