-- Hedge Fund Closure Rate May Rise to 20%, Merrill Lynch Says
-- Bei Hu
-- 2010-09-21T03:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/hedge-fund-closure-rate-may-rise-to-20-on-lack-of-capital-merrill-says.html

          
          
             As much as 20 percent of hedge
funds globally may be liquidated by the first quarter because
smaller managers are starved for fees and new capital, according
to  Bank of America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit.  
 Hedge fund managers overseeing less than $100 million may
be the worst hit, said  Justin Fredericks , New York-based head of
U.S. capital introductions, a prime brokerage team that brings
together hedge funds and potential investors.  
 Hedge funds globally returned on average 1.65 percent this
year, according to Hedge Fund Research Inc., headed for the
third-worst annual return since the Chicago-based company
started to track data in 1990 on concern that the recovery in
economic growth may falter. About 93 percent of the $9.5 billion
net inflows into the industry in the second quarter went to
managers overseeing $5 billion or more, said HFR.  
 “Going into the year-end, there will be significant
closures and we estimate it could be as high as 20 percent,”
Fredericks said in an interview Sept. 17 in Hong Kong. “A large
portion of managers are still below high-water marks.
Performance is flat and money hasn’t been flowing to smaller
managers.” High-water mark refers to the historical peak net
asset value of a hedge fund.  
 Hedge fund liquidations as a percentage of the total number
of funds will rise from about 15 percent in each of the last two
years because most of the new money coming into the industry is
going to the largest managers, said Fredericks.  
 Industry Assets  
 The closures are not expected to have a significant impact
on overall industry assets under management because managers
overseeing $100 million or less control a small percentage of
the total, said Fredericks, who was attending a hedge fund
capital introduction conference organized by Merrill Lynch.
Closures will be offset by new fund starts, with the total
number of managers to remain stable, he said.  
 About 53 percent of all hedge fund firms manage less than
$100 million, controlling between them 1.7 percent of industry
assets as of June, according to HFR data.  
 There were almost 7,000 hedge funds, excluding funds of
hedge funds, in the $1.65 trillion global industry at the end of
June, according HFR. The industry attracted $23.3 billion of new
money from investors in the first half, HFR said.  
 Twelve of the 15 largest U.S.-based hedge fund managers
grew their assets significantly over the past year, said
Fredericks.  
 About 40 percent of hedge funds are still under their high-
water marks, making them unable to charge incentive fees for
possibly the third consecutive year, he said.  
 Pension Funds  
 Small funds run by managers who oversee multiple funds also
are more likely to be liquidated,  Mairead Kenny , Merrill Lynch’s
London-based head of Europe, Middle-East and Africa capital
introduction, said in the same interview.  
 The largest managers have been favored by a new crop of
investors, most notably public and corporate retirement funds,
because they’re perceived to be safer investments, Fredericks
said.  
 Ohio Public Employees Retirement System  and  National
Pension Reserve Fund,  the Irish national pension fund, are
inviting investment consultants to bid for mandates to advise
them on hedge fund allocations, according to Fredericks and
Kenny. Swedish pension funds including  AP1  and AP4, and ATP, the
largest Danish pension, recently started to allocate money to
hedge funds, said Kenny.  
 Mid-Sized Funds  
 Merrill Lynch recently observed more inflows into mid-sized
managers overseeing $1 billion to $3 billion as some of the
largest funds stopped taking money from new investors,
Fredericks said.  
 Some of the most established institutional investors in
Europe, such as those in Scandinavia and the Netherlands, are
starting to move away from the biggest managers in favor of
their smaller rivals, Kenny said.  
 “They’re feeling a little less comfortable at this point
with the book of the business these guys are able to run,” said
Kenny. “They feel the guys a little smaller are more nimble,
possibly they could have a better partnership with them as
well.”  
 Still, it will take a few more quarters for the inflows to
trickle down to even smaller managers, said Fredericks.  
 Providing Capital  
 Some of the largest institutional funds of funds have
indicated they intend to restart allocating money to early-stage
hedge funds through dedicated units, which may drive inflows to
smaller managers,  Joanne Bryant-Rubio , Merrill Lynch’s Hong
Kong-based head of capital introductions in Asia-Pacific, said
in the interview.  
 Merrill Lynch is seeing more investor interest in macro
funds which seek to benefit from broad economic trends by
trading equities, bonds, commodities and currencies. Investor
interest in  equity long-short funds  that involve macro-economic
analyses or focus on energy has also increased, Fredericks said.  
 Investors also favor  event-driven funds , particularly those
seeking to profit from companies going through mergers and
acquisitions, he added.  
 Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        