-- Mediobanca Resumes Cash Payout After Posting Fiscal Fourth-Quarter Profit
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-09-21T12:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/mediobanca-reports-fourt-quarter-earnings-resuming-cash-dividend-payout.html
Mediobanca SpA,  Italy’s biggest
publicly traded investment bank, will pay its first cash
 dividend  since 2008 after posting a fiscal fourth-quarter profit
on lower provisions.  Net income in the three months ended June 30 was 46.4
million euros ($61 million), compared with a 37 million-euro net
loss in the year-earlier period. That beat the 35 million-euro
median estimate of eight  analysts surveyed  by Bloomberg. The
Milan-based lender will propose a cash dividend of 17 cents a
share, it said in a statement today.  Chief Executive Officer  Alberto Nagel , 45, is trying to
expand by taking advantage of lower asset prices after the
credit crunch. He’s also diversifying the bank’s product
offerings to increase revenue by developing the company’s
consumer-credit business at its CheBanca retail unit.  “The bank’s capital solidity has been reinforced” and
“liquidity enhanced,” the lender said in the statement.
“Corporate finance volumes remained weak, while the recovery in
consumer credit new loans continued.”  The company’s core Tier 1 ratio, a key measure of financial
strength, was 11.1 percent at the end of June from 11.2 percent
at the end of March. Net interest income rose to 256 million
euros in the quarter from 209 million euros a year earlier,
while loan-loss provisions fell 29 percent to 124.5 million
euros in the period.  ‘Mediobanca has a “strong capital adequacy, a low gearing
of the balance sheet and clean asset quality,”   Alberto Segafredo  and Federico Salerno, analysts at Main First Bank AG
with a “buy” rating on Mediobanca, wrote in a Sept. 15 note to
investors.  Net trading swung to a loss of 29 million euros in the
fourth quarter, reflecting a reduction in treasury activity,
“which was impacted by the adverse market performance in the
quarter,” the lender said.  Mediobanca rose 2 percent to 6.82 euros at 1:15 p.m. in
Milan trading, giving the company a market value of 5.9 billion
euros. The bank has fallen 15 percent in the past six months,
while the  Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services Index  has risen
2 percent.  The company is scheduled to hold a conference call at 4:30
p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  