-- Lehman Brothers Logo ‘Liquidated’ as Artist Paints Wall Street
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/lehman-brothers-logo-liquidated-as-graffiti-artist-paints-wall-street.html
The lines drip as if the  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  logo were melting or crying.  The painting is meant to symbolize the investment bank’s
collapse two years ago, the largest corporate bankruptcy in U.S.
history and a precursor of the global financial crisis.  The 32-inch-by-52-inch work at Manhattan’s Gallery De Buck
in Chelsea will soon have company. Other canvases are adorned
with the unblemished logos of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Bear
Stearns Cos.,  Merrill Lynch & Co.  and  Bank of America Corp .  The French artist who created them, 32-year-old  Aghirre
Schwarz , plans to add dripping lines to each, a process he calls
“liquidating.”  “My painting shows that Lehman Brothers was not so
solid,” he said in accented English at the gallery. “And that
the most solid things in appearance one day change.”  The jarring image is illustrative of Schwarz’s roots as a
graffiti artist. He often goes by the sobriquet “Zeus,”
spelled “Zevs.”  He has “liquidated” corporate logos for years. His most
famous was in 2009, when he painted a leaky Chanel insignia
outside an Armani boutique in Hong Kong. He was arrested and
jailed for days. The bank canvases will make up his first New
York solo show, scheduled for early 2011.  “The first interest of my mind is about the visual aspect
of this logo,” he said of Lehman. “I play with the rhythm of
the lines of the canvas. You can have a visual sensation of
vibration when you look at it.”  Dealer David De Buck is asking $12,000 for it.  “He wants to change the way we look at things,” De Buck
said. “We’re the only ones who still invest in Lehman
Brothers.”  For more information, see Schwarz’s  website , where he
“liquidates”  Google Inc. ’s logo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 