-- Enbridge Pipeline Break May Reduce Profit at Canadian Natural Resources
-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 2010-09-21T11:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/enbridge-pipeline-break-may-reduce-profit-at-canadian-natural-cenovus.html
Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. ,
 Cenovus Energy Inc.  and Suncor Energy Inc. may see third-quarter
earnings reduced by pipeline ruptures in the U.S. Midwest that
caused oil prices to tumble.  Effects of the disruptions in oil shipments on  Enbridge
Inc. -controlled pipelines may continue to erode profits of
Canadian energy producers in the fourth quarter, said  Phil Skolnick , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Inc.  The heavy oil that is extracted from Canada’s tar sands has
been trading at a steep discount to the U.S. benchmark grade.
Higher differentials mean lower profits for crude producers. The
largest producers of Canadian crude have done little to protect
themselves by hedging, or selling oil under contract at fixed
prices, Skolnick said yesterday in an interview.  “There’s not a whole lot of hedging with the bigger
players,” said Skolnick, who rates Canadian Natural and  Suncor 
at “buy” and Cenovus at “hold” and doesn’t own shares of any
of the companies. He declined to say if he anticipates changing
his  ratings  of the stocks. The companies are based in Calgary.  The price difference between  Western Canada Select  crude
and benchmark West Texas Intermediate has averaged $19.23 this
quarter, 84 percent higher than a year earlier, according to
Bloomberg data. The price gap, or differential, touched $31.50 a
barrel Sept. 13, the widest since at least May 2008.  Extra Processing Needed  Enbridge pipes Canadian crude to refineries in the U.S.
Midwest from the oil sands of central Alberta. Line 6B, which is
capable of carrying 190,000 barrels of oil a day, remains shut
after a rupture July 26 in Michigan. Enbridge’s Line 6A, which
carries as much as 670,000 barrels of crude a day, was shut
Sept. 9 after it burst in Illinois. It was restarted Sept. 17.  Much of Canada’s heavy crude oil needs to be processed at
refineries with specialized equipment to remove impurities like
sulfur. When a pipeline breaks, producers are unable to sell the
crude to refineries without the ability to process their oil.  “There’s no question that Enbridge has affected us,”
 Anthony Marino , chief executive officer of Calgary-based oil-
sands producer  Baytex Energy Trust , told investors in a Sept. 14
presentation in Toronto. “We averaged 16 percent differential
from January to August of this year. We’re up to 26 percent
after 6A occurred during September.”  The impact of wider differentials may be felt in the fourth
quarter because of a seasonal drop in demand for products such
as gasoline and asphalt from U.S. refineries, Skolnick said.
Producers such as Suncor, Canada’s biggest energy company, and
 Husky Energy Inc.  of Calgary also have been affected by
maintenance at their processing plants, he said.  Alternate Routes  “A lot of companies found alternate routes” for
delivering crude to refinery customers, Skolnick said. “That
costs pennies on the barrel and all comes off earnings.”  Canadian Natural and  Cenovus  have both dropped more than 5
percent in Toronto trading since the first of the Enbridge
pipeline ruptures. Suncor is down less than 1 percent, and  Husky 
has fallen 1.8 percent. Over the same period, the Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index has gained 4.4 percent.  While earnings for Canadian oil producers will probably be
cut, the pipeline breakdowns may be a winning situation for
refiners in the U.S. Mid-Continent region,  Paul Sankey , an
analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York, said in a
research note.  Those refiners that can still access crude from Canada will
benefit from “huge” discounts on oil trapped by shipping
disruptions, Sankey said.  The differential between Western Canada Select and West
Texas Intermediate narrowed yesterday by $1 to $23 a barrel,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gene Laverty  in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 