-- ENRC Buys 50% of Brazil's Bahia Minerals From Zamin Unit for $670 Million
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2010-09-21T16:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/enrc-buys-50-of-brazil-s-bahia-minerals-from-zamin-unit-for-670-million.html
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. , a
producer of ferroalloys, bought the shares it didn’t own in
Brazil’s Bahia Minerals BV and secured an option to purchase
Greystone Mineracao do Brasil Ltda to expand in iron ore.  ENRC acquired the remaining 50 percent of Bahia Minerals
from a unit of Zamin BM NV for $670 million in cash, and an
option to buy Greystone’s owners Block V Ltd. and Caera Minerals
Ltd. from Zamin for no more than $150 million in cash, the
London-based company said today in a statement.  ENRC, looking to diversify its production of base metals
and its geographic reach outside Kazakhstan, agreed in February
to buy Zambian copper and cobalt company Chambishi Metals Plc
and last year purchased Central African Mining & Exploration
Co., which operates in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The
Bahia and Greystone deals are set to boost ENRC’s presence in
Brazil, where an iron-ore deposit was discovered this year that
may be the world’s largest, the government said Sept 2.  Bahia Minerals is the holding company for an iron ore mine
in Bahia state. ENRC won’t make payment or begin construction at
the mine until the government starts building a 1,500-kilometer
(930-mile) railway and awards it a license to build a port, ENRC
Chairman  Johannes Sittard  said today by telephone.  Loan for Mine  “Our target is the fourth quarter this year,” he said.
ENRC is in talks to finance the development of the $2.1 billion
mine with a loan from Brazilian banks or through a so-called
offtake agreement with its customers in Western Europe, India or
China, Sittard said. The company may also consider selling a
minority stake in the project, he said.  ENRC  fell 25 pence, or 2.8 percent, to 889.5 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close in London.  “We expect the shares will continue their recent
underperformance,” Liberum Capital Ltd. said in a note to
investors, citing concerns over funding for the project.  “We started the year with about $1 billion positive  cash
position ,” Sittard said. “Next year, we expect the same
positive cash generation we experienced this year. We aren’t in
a position where we have to raise funds at this moment.” ENRC
will raise funds from China Development Bank Corp. or on
financial markets if it needs additional financing, he said.  Bahia Minerals  Bahia Minerals, or BMBV, is the sole shareholder of two
Brazilian companies, Bahia Mineracao Ltda and Eire Mineracao
Ltda. Greystone holds a mineral license adjoining the BMBV
project area.  “We remain positive on the fundamentals of the iron ore
industry and welcome the opportunity to acquire full control of
BMBV,” ENRC Chief Executive Officer  Felix Vulis  said in today’s
statement. “We are confident that the acquisition will enhance
shareholder value.”  ENRC last month bought 50.5 percent of Camrose Resources
Ltd. for $175 million, gaining rights to the Kolwezi copper and
cobalt project in Congo, after the government revoked the
project’s license from First Quantum Minerals Ltd. last year.  First Quantum, already in international arbitration with
Congo over the withdrawal of the license, said Sept. 15 that it
began legal action against units of ENRC and will seek an
injunction against the use of its equipment and plant there.  “We bought the mining license; we didn’t buy any right in
the infrastructure and the money they invested has no relation
to the mining license,” Sittard said today. “The license was
revoked from First Quantum and transferred to another company
and we bought that company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Firat Kayakiran  in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 