-- Merck KGaA Sees High Single-Digit Serono Sales Growth for Next Two Years
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2010-09-21T11:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/merck-kgaa-sees-high-single-digit-serono-sales-growth-for-next-two-years.html
Merck KGaA  expects high-single-
digit  sales growth  at its Merck Serono unit for the next two
years as demand grows for the cancer drug Erbitux and treatments
for multiple sclerosis.  The Merck Serono drug unit’s sales probably will rise by
double digits in emerging markets,  Phyllis Carter , a company
spokeswoman, said in a phone interview today. Revenue for
Erbitux and the multiple sclerosis medicines also will increase
by double digits, said Carter, who declined to comment further.
The company had previously said Merck Serono sales would
increase in 2011, but hadn’t said by how much. Darmstadt,
Germany-based Merck briefed investors at a meeting yesterday in
London that was closed to reporters and wasn’t webcast.  The drug and chemical maker sees mid- to high-single-digit
growth for Merck  Millipore , the unit it gained in this year’s $6
billion  acquisition  of U.S. biotechnology equipment supplier
Millipore Corp., analysts at Helvea SA said, citing the London
meeting. Carter declined to comment, saying a presentation will
be posted on Merck’s  website  later today. Merck hadn’t
previously provided separate guidance for Merck Millipore.  Investors reacted with “mixed feelings,”  Daniel Wendorff ,
a Frankfurt-based analyst for  Commerzbank AG , wrote in a note to
clients. “The company was upbeat about the prospects of its
Merck Millipore division but again cautioned on its liquid
crystals division.”  Executives said pricing pressure has returned for the
liquid crystals Merck sells for use in flat-panel televisions
and other electronics, Wendorff wrote.  Merck’s multiple sclerosis pill cladribine may be approved
in Europe with restrictions on its use, Wendorff and the Helvea
analysts said, citing comments from  Elmar Schnee , head of the
company’s pharmaceutical operations, at the London meeting.
Merck held the meeting after analysts asked the company in
February to improve communication with investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net . 