-- Mesa Air, Ultimate Escapes, Urban Brands: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-09-21T13:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/mesa-air-ultimate-escapes-neff-majestic-star-trico-fulton-bankruptcy.html
Regional airline  Mesa Air Group
Inc.  filed a proposed Chapter 11 reorganization plan on Sept.
17. A hearing to approve the explanatory disclosure statement is
set for Oct. 26.  Unsecured creditors with claims aggregating $2.05 billion
are to share a note for $50 million plus all of the new stock
except shares reserved for management and 10 percent earmarked
for  US Airways Group Inc.  The stock for US Airways, together
with a $5.5 million note, is for US Airway’s agreement to enter
into a new code-sharing arrangement where Mesa flies regional
aircraft for the larger carrier.  The plan has separate treatment for the unsecured creditors
of each of the affiliated companies. Creditors of Freedom
Airlines Inc. come out best with an estimated 7.7 percent
recovery. Mesa Air Group Inc. creditors are in second place at
5.8 percent. Creditors of Mesa Airlines Inc. are to see an
estimated 5.7 percent, the disclosure statement says. Creditors
of Air Midwest Inc. could see 3.6 percent. The estimates are
based on the midpoint value available for distribution to
unsecured creditors.  The enterprise value of the reorganized company is
estimated to range from $939 million to $1.1 billion. The
largest component of the value is $645 million for capitalized
leases.  The total value for unsecured creditors, including the $50
million note and the stock, is $69.2 million to $224.1 million.
The equity for unsecured creditors has an estimated value of
$19.2 million to $174.1 million.  Although the official creditors’ committee is still working
on some details, the disclosure statement says that the panel
believes the plan “represents the best alternative available to
creditors.”  Mesa filed under Chapter 11 in January with a fleet of 178
aircraft. At the time, 130 were operating to provide 700 daily
departures serving 127 cities in 41 states, Canada, and Mexico.
After rejecting aircraft leases, Mesas is now operating 77
aircraft making 575 departures a day.  Phoenix-based Mesa listed assets of $976 million against
debt totaling $869 million. Liabilities include $393 million on
loans secured by 24 owned aircraft, $26 million on three note
issues, and $33.6 million secured by 20 other aircraft. In
addition, there was $1.62 billion in potential liability on
aircraft leases. At the outset of the Chapter 11 case, Mesa
operated regional aircraft under code-sharing agreements with US
Airways, UAL Corp.’s United Airlines and Delta Air Lines Inc.  The case is In re Mesa Air Group Inc., 10-10018, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  New Filings  Ultimate Escapes Destination Club Files for Sale  Ultimate Escapes Inc. , a destination club operator, filed
for Chapter 11 protection yesterday in Delaware along with
dozens of affiliates. The company intends to sell the business
on a so-called credit bid to the secured lender CapitalSource
Finance LLC unless a better offer turns up at auction.  The company owns or leases 119 residences in 45
destinations. Most are owned. A court filing says that Chapter
11 was the result of a decline in membership sales beginning in
2008.  Ultimate Escapes has approximately 1,250 members who pay
annual dues ranging from $8,000 to $49,000. Court papers say
that the properties are worth between $1 million and $3 million
each. The June 30 balance sheet was upside down with $189
million in assets against total liabilities of $222 million.  The Kissimmee, Florida-based company calls itself the
largest destination club operator measured by number of
destinations. By number of members, it is the second-largest.
The company says it offers “hundreds of multimillion dollar
private residences and luxury hotels.”  Revenue for the first half of the year was $14.9 million, a
decline of almost 15 percent from a year earlier. The net loss
was $10.8 million, resulting in part from $5.7 million in
interest expense.  The company told members earlier this month that it was
operating under a forbearance agreement with the secured lender
and needed either to sell the business, obtain a new investment,
or merge.  Ultimate Resorts filed papers today asking the bankruptcy
judge to set up procedures for auction and sale. Chevy Chase,
Maryland-based CapitalSource is under contract to buy the
business for a $74.7 million credit against the $97.3 million
secured debt it’s owed. An affiliate has a second lien for $10
million.  The bankruptcy court is being asked to require other bids
by Oct. 15, followed by an Oct. 18 auction and an Oct. 20
hearing for approval of the sale.  Ultimate Escapes is familiar with bankruptcy sales. In 2007
it paid $98 million plus debt assumption to buy assets from
Tanner & Haley Resorts, another destination resort operator in
Chapter 11.  Before the Chapter 11 filing, Ultimate Escapes said it
preferred conversion to a member-owned operation, where members
would end up owing a majority of the stock. For conversion, each
member would have been required to pay between $30,000 and
$50,000, depending on the type of membership. In addition,
members would have been required to convert $80 million in
membership redemption rights into equity.  If the club were converted to member ownership, existing
shareholders would have continued with a minority of the equity,
the Sept. 9 message to members said.  The case is In re Ultimate Escapes Holdings LLC, 10-12915,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Ashley Stewart Plus-Sized Retailer Files in Delaware  Urban Brands Inc., the owner of the  Ashley Stewart  brand of
clothing for what the company calls “plus-sized urban women,”
filed under Chapter 11 early this morning in Delaware to sell
the business.  The company has 210 stores in 26 states, according to a
court filing. The flagship store is on 125th Street in the
Harlem neighborhood of Manhattan, the website says.  There is a non-binding letter of intent to sell the
business. Neither the price nor the identity of the buyer was
disclosed in papers filed by early this morning. Not all the so-
called first-day papers were filed by dawn today.  Urban Brands, based in Secaucus, New Jersey, lost $44.3
million in 2008 and $28.6 million in 2009, court filings
disclose.  Funds affiliated with Trimaran Capital Partners are the
largest shareholders, court papers say. Trimaran is owed $81.2
million on senior unsecured notes. The other principal
shareholder is UBI Holding Corp.  Bank of America NA, a secured lender, is owed $2.3 million.  Sales declined from $179.6 million to $174.6 million
between 2008 and 2009. The company blamed financial problems on
the now-divested Marianne division and general weakness in the
economy.  The petition says assets are less than $50 million while
debt exceeds $100 million.  The case is In re Urban Brands Inc., 10-13005, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Kentuckiana Medical Center Hospital Files in Indiana  Kentuckiana Medical Center LLC , the owner of a 36-bed
acute-care hospital in Clarksville, Indiana, filed for Chapter
11 protection on Sept. 20 in New Albany, Indiana.  The secured lender, First Tennessee Bank NA, froze the
hospital’s accounts on Sept. 8, resulting in a missed payroll on
Sept. 17.  The hospital, opened in August 2009, is 49 percent owned by
Cardiovascular Hospitals of America. Investors who own the
remainder of the equity are providing financing for the Chapter
11 case.  The petition says assets and debt both exceed $10 million.  The case is In re Kentuckiana Medical Center LLC, 10-93039,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District Indiana (New Albany).  Updates  Lehman Explains Logic in Bailing Out Bank Subsidiaries  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  filed papers in bankruptcy
court yesterday explaining why it’s prudent to invest another $1
billion in its two non-bankrupt bank subsidiaries, Aurora Bank
FSB and Utah-based Woodlands Commercial Bank.  Once the new contributions are made, Lehman expects to
recover $2 billion from the sale or liquidation of the banks’
assets. Lehman will also avoid $2.7 billion in priority claims
that regulators would have against the holding company for
failure to maintain required capitalization. The resulting
“value preserved,” according to Lehman, is $4.7 billion.  The hearing for approval of the investment will be held
tomorrow.  After deducting $1.6 billion in contributions that Lehman
will have made to the banks since filing in Chapter 11, the net
value saved is $3.09 billion, the Lehman filing says. For
details on the investments in the banks, click here for the
Sept. 3 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The Lehman holding company and its non-brokerage
subsidiaries filed a revised Chapter 11 plan and disclosure
statement in April. For details, click here and here for the
April 15 and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports. The Lehman holding
company filed under Chapter 11 in New York on Sept. 15, 2008,
and sold office buildings and the North American investment
banking business to London-based  Barclays Plc  one week later.
The Lehman brokerage operations went into liquidation on Sept.
19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage is in the control of
a trustee appointed under the Securities Investor Protection
Act.  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Neff Compromises on Plan with Unsecured Creditors  Neff Corp. , a closely owned equipment rental company,
reached agreement with the official creditors’ committee on
revisions to the Chapter 11 plan. The company said the revised
plan opens the door to a “fully consensual balance sheet
restructuring that eliminates more than $400 million debt.”  The company is asking the bankruptcy judge to approve
amendments to the reorganization plan and sign a confirmation
order at a hearing today.  The plan is unchanged except that the purchaser will make a
$1.8 million “gift” to holders of senior notes claims. Other
unsecured creditors are to split up a $365,000 cash “gift”
from the buyer. Both groups would see a recovery of
approximately 5 percent.  Until the compromise was reached, the committee was
objecting to the plan and seeking authority to bring lawsuits.
Before the latest revisions, the plan had been scheduled for
approval at a Sept. 15 confirmation hearing.  At auction, Wayzata Investment Partners LLC came out as the
winning bidder to finance a plan with $73 million cash to
second-lien creditors owed $299 million. Before the auction, the
payment was $63 million. In addition, second-lien creditors may
participate in an equity rights offering.  First-lien term loan lenders, owed $87.9 million, can elect
between being paid in full with interest at the default rate or
participating in the $181.6 million rights offering that
originally was for $118.9 million. Wayzata is fully backstopping
the rights offering.  For details on the company’s finances and the original
plan, click here for the May 17 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Wayzata and  Apollo Capital Management  together have more
than 67 percent of the first-lien debt.  Miami-based Neff, with 63 branches in 14 states, listed
assets of $299 million and debt totaling $609 million.  The case is In re Neff Corp., 10-12610, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Majestic Star Files Plan and Disclosure Statement  Majestic Star Casino LLC filed a proposed reorganization
plan on Sept. 17. The accompanying disclosure statement has
blanks were creditors eventually will be told the percentage
recovery to expect.  Senior secured credit facility lenders, owed $65.3 million,
are to receive cash and a new secured note for $58 million.  Holders of $348.4 million in senior secured notes are in
line for new second-lien notes and 65 percent of the equity.
Holders of the senior notes are to see 35 percent of the new
equity for their approximately $200 million in debt. General
unsecured creditors are being offered 22.5 percent in cash.  Holders of $72.6 million in discount notes are to receive
nothing.  Majestic Star’s financial condition took a beating when
convenient access by customers from Chicago to the Indiana
properties was cut off by the indefinite closing of a bridge for
structural repairs.  Majestic Star has four casinos, plus hotels with 806 rooms
serving the two riverboat casinos in Gary, Indiana. The other
casinos are in Tunica, Mississippi, and Black Hawk, Colorado.  At the outset of the Chapter 11 case, Majestic Star’s debt
was listed as including $79.3 million on the senior secured
credit facility, with Wells Fargo Capital Finance Inc. as agent.
Senior secured noteholders have a second lien for a $300 million
debt. Majestic Star owes $200 million on unsecured senior notes
and $63.5 million on discount notes. Assets were listed $406
million and debt was $750 million in the quarterly report for
the period ended June 30.  The case is In re Majestic Star Casino LLC, 09-14136, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Trico Has $22 Million Loan, Selling Two Vessels  Trico Marine Services Inc. , a provider of support vessels
for the offshore oil and gas industry, received approval from
the bankruptcy court on Sept. 17 for $22 million in new secured
financing for non-bankrupt subsidiary Trico Shipping AS. For
details on the financing, click here and see the Trico item in
the Sept. 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Trico returns to court tomorrow for final approval of its
own financing.  Trico filed a motion on Sept. 17 for approval of the
private sale of two vessels for $8.5 million to NigerDelta
Shipping Agency Ltd. The vessels being sold are the Spirit River
and the Truckee River. The Spirit River is responsible for 88
percent of the price.  Trico wants the judge to approve the sale at a Sept. 29
hearing without holding an auction. Trico says the vessels have
been thoroughly marketed and the price exceeds appraised value.  The Chapter 11 filing in August was the second by
Woodlands, Texas-based Trico. It finished a so-called
prepackaged reorganization in early 2005 by swapping $250
million in debt for equity. Shareholders were given warrants.  Apart from a Cayman Islands holding company, none of the
foreign subsidiaries are in bankruptcy the second time around.
The consolidated balance sheet for June listed assets of $904
million against liabilities totaling $1.027 billion. The
bankruptcy petition listed liabilities of $354 million for Trico
Marine.  Liabilities  include $202.8 million on secured convertible
debentures and $150 million owing on unsecured convertible
debentures. Non-bankrupt Trico Shipping owes $400 million on the
11.875 percent senior secured notes.  The new reorganization is being financed primarily with a
$35 million secured credit supplied by Tennenbaum Capital
Partners LLC.  The case is In re Trico Marine Services Inc., 10-12653,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Fulton Homes Schedules Nov. 28 Confirmation Hearing  Homebuilder Fulton Homes Corp. scheduled a Nov. 28
confirmation hearing for approval of the Chapter 11 plan when
the bankruptcy judge in Phoenix approved the explanatory
disclosure statement on Sept. 17.  The judge will take testimony from witnesses at the Nov. 28
hearing after holding a pre-confirmation conference on Oct. 28.  The plan was formulated by newly hired restructuring
lawyers assigned to break an impasse with bank lenders. The
bankruptcy judge declined to approve a prior version of the plan
in March.  The revised plan offers the banks a “substantial cash
payment” on confirmation and senior liens to secure their
remaining debt. The new plan only gives secured suppliers 60
percent payment on confirmation in return for their $1.2 million
in claims, with the remainder secured by a lien subordinate to
the banks. The suppliers also must agree to provide “normal
trade terms.”  The new plan assumes that Fulton is solvent. As a result,
the plan would pay interest on unsecured claims. The company’s
valuation expert says the going-concern value is $200 million to
$210 million.  Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America NA  is agent
for unsecured lenders owed about $164 million. Fulton has no
substantial secured debt. In addition to the suppliers, general
unsecured claims amount to $1.2 million.  Fulton previously said it accumulated $65 million cash
during the Chapter 11 case that began in January 2009. The
company says it generated a cumulative profit of $8.5 million
while in reorganization.  The case is In re Fulton Home Corp., 09-01298, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  Briefly Noted  Almatis Confirms Revised Plan After Settlement  Almatis BV, a producer of specialty alumina products,
confirmed a Chapter 11 plan yesterday based on a settlement with
 Oaktree Capital Management LLC , a first-lien lender which had
intended to take over ownership of Almatis despite opposition
from lower ranking creditors. Instead of transferring ownership,
the plan the judge approved yesterday gives Oaktree full payment
with interest at the default rate. Other holders of the $676
million in first-lien debt receive the same treatment. For
details on the plan, click here and here for the Aug. 27 and
July 26 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports.  Rotterdam-based Almatis listed total debt of $1.3 billion,
including $681 million on first-lien obligations, $77.7 million
on second-lien debt, and $200.6 million on mezzanine debt. There
is junior mezzanine debt of $80.6 million, plus trade debt of
$20 million. Assets were listed for $1.53 billion.  The case is In re Almatis BV, 10-12308, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Lifland Rails against Late-in-the-Case Claims Buying  Burton R. Lifland, the longest-serving bankruptcy judge in
New York, gave a speech yesterday where he said that investors
who buy claims during a bankruptcy reorganization can threaten
to delay or derail an otherwise successful confirmation by
necessitating lengthy and costly valuation trials.  To read about Lifiand’s speech, click here for Bloomberg
coverage.  Daily Podcast  Tribune, Vegas Monorail, Lehman Fees, Meruelo Maddux: Audio  The reorganization plan filed by two major creditors of
 Tribune Co. , bondholders’ opposition to the plan by  Las Vegas
Monorail Co. , professional fees for  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  approaching $1 billion, and the withdrawal of a press
release by  Meruelo Maddux Properties Inc.  are discussed in the
new bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and
Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  Advance Sheets  Debtor May Hire Professional with Claim, Judge Rules  A company reorganizing in Chapter 11 can retain a
professional who holds a pre-bankruptcy unsecured claim for
services, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Michael Lynn  ruled on Sept. 17
when he sided with a minority of courts that have considered the
issue.  Lynn, from Fort Worth, Texas, interpreted two provisions in
the Bankruptcy Code, Sections 327(a) and 1107(b). Section
1107(b) says that a bankrupt company is not barred from hiring a
professional “solely because of such person’s employment by or
representation of the debtor before the commencement of the
case.”  Lynn said that the better reading of the two sections
together is to permit employment so long as the pre-bankruptcy
claim “arose from prior professional work for the debtor.”
Lynn said it “eludes the court” why “a post-petition
administrative priority claim should be found to create no
conflict of interest while a prepetition general unsecured claim
automatically disqualifies the creditor professional.”  The case involved a dairy farm that sought to retain the
accountants the business had been using for years. There were
few if any other accountants familiar with the dairy industry.
The U.S. Trustee objected to retention approval because the
accountants were owed $11,700 for work performed before
bankruptcy. The U.S. Trustee wouldn’t have objected if the
accountants had waived the claim.  The case is In re Talsma, 10-43790, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Northern District Texas (Fort Worth).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 