-- EU Court Limits Access to Agencies' Legal Documents Until After Judgments
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2010-09-21T11:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/eu-court-limits-access-to-agencies-legal-documents-until-after-judgments.html
European Union agencies can
restrict public access to documents they file in lawsuits until
after cases are decided, the EU’s highest court ruled.  The European Commission and other EU agencies pleading
cases at the  European Court of Justice  can withhold their
filings until a final judgment is issued, the Luxembourg-based
court ruled today.  The commission, the EU’s executive agency can “refuse an
application for access to documents, without being under an
obligation to undertake a specific examination,” an 11-judge
panel said.  Lawyers for the  International Press Association , which
represents foreign reporters in Belgium, initiated the case
arguing that access to such documents is in the public interest.
The group rejected as “purely hypothetical” the commissions’
concerns that release of the documents may “adversely affect”
judicial proceedings. In 2007, a lower EU court clarified the
document restrictions may be lifted once a ruling is given.  The court rejected the lower court’s position that the
commission and other EU bodies may be under an obligation to
give access to their filings after a hearing and before a final
ruling, saying that could undermine pending cases.  “Disclosure of the pleadings in question would have the
effect of exposing judicial activities to external pressure,
albeit only in the perception of the public, and would disturb
the serenity of the proceedings,” the court said.  The not-for-profit association, which represents reporters
from news organizations including Bloomberg LP, said it still
believes document access before hearings would improve
transparency and allow for more informed reporting.  “Increased public interest in cases before the court is
simply a reflection of the court’s ever-growing importance and
should be seen as an opportunity,” the association said in an
e-mailed statement.  The cases are C-514/07 P Sweden v API and Commission, C-
528/07 P API v Commission, C-532/07 P Commission v API.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net  