-- EU Tightens Natural-Gas-Market Emergency Rules, Centralizing Powers
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-09-21T11:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/eu-tightens-natural-gas-market-emergency-rules-centralizing-powers.html
European Union nations must deepen
cooperation during natural-gas market emergencies under a new
law that was spurred by concerns about shipments from Russia,
the EU’s biggest supplier of the fuel.  The European Parliament approved legislation obliging
governments to coordinate policies in the event of a cutoff in
gas supplies and handing EU regulators an oversight role. This
marks the latest EU attempt to scale back national sovereignty
over energy policy by giving more authority to the  European
Commission , the 27-nation bloc’s regulatory arm.  The EU relies on Moscow-based  OAO Gazprom  for a quarter of
its gas, about 80 percent of which is shipped via Ukraine. In
January 2009, a second price dispute in three years between
Russia and its western neighbor left more than 20 countries
without the fuel for almost two weeks, prompting the commission
to propose deeper cooperation and more centralized powers six
months later.  “This is a sea change under which member states are moving
beyond a purely national approach,” said  Alejo Vidal-Quadras , a
Spanish member who steered the law through the EU Parliament
today in Strasbourg, France. National governments have signaled
their support for the legislation after scrapping some
provisions that would have further enhanced the commission’s
role, making final EU approval a formality in the coming weeks.  Diversification  The EU, which relies on imports for 60 percent of its gas
and expects this to rise to more than 80 percent in 2020 as
North Sea supplies shrink, is stepping up efforts to protect and
diversify energy sources.  Last year, European governments agreed to improve controls
of emergency oil stocks and the commission helped broker an
agreement among four EU countries and Turkey to build a pipeline
that would reduce reliance on Russia by importing the fuel from
the Caspian.  Under the new law, national authorities will have to
consult with each other and the Brussels-based commission when
drawing up emergency plans aimed at limiting the impact of gas-
supply disruptions. The legislation also provides for the
possibility of joint plans “at regional level.”  The rules will allow the commission to declare an EU-wide
or regional emergency at the request of a member state. In such
an event, the commission would coordinate a response on behalf
of national authorities, including any action relating to non-EU
suppliers.  Lessons  “Europe has drawn lessons from multiple supply crises,”
said  Tunne Kelam , an Estonian member of the EU Parliament. “We
see encouraging cooperation.”  The new legislation also requires actions by national
governments and industry to limit the risk of a gas-supply
crisis. One such provision obliges countries to ensure that, in
the event of a disruption to the largest gas infrastructure, the
capacity of the remaining infrastructure can meet total demand
within four years of the law’s entry into force.  Governments will have to inform the commission of
agreements with non-EU suppliers that “have an impact on the
development of gas infrastructures and gas supplies.” Gas
companies will be required to notify details of contracts
concluded with foreign suppliers to national authorities, who
will pass these data in aggregate form to the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Strasbourg, France, at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  