-- European Stocks Decline, Led by Nokia, Deutsche Bank, Natixis
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-09-21T16:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/european-stock-index-futures-little-changed-deutsche-bank-may-be-active.html
European stocks fell, as selloffs
in Nokia Oyj and Deutsche Bank AG overshadowed debt sales by
Ireland, Spain and Greece and investors awaited the latest
policy statement from the U.S. Federal Reserve.  Nokia dropped 4.5 percent. Deutsche Bank tumbled 4.5
percent after predicting a loss for the third quarter. Natixis
slipped 4.7 percent as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended
selling shares in the French investment bank. Wellstream
Holdings Plc surged 30 percent after the oil-service providers
said it received takeover approaches.  The benchmark  Stoxx 600  slid 0.5 percent to 265.01 at the
4:30 p.m. close in London, paring yesterday’s 1.3 percent rally.
The gauge is 2.6 percent below its high for 2010 in April amid
conflicting reports about the strength of the economic recovery
and concern about the fiscal health of some European nations.  Stocks climbed earlier today as housing starts in the U.S.
increased more than forecast in August, a signal the industry is
stabilizing. Federal Reserve policy makers meet today to
consider whether new measures to boost growth, such as more
quantitative easing, are needed.  “The mood is dominated by Q.E.II or not from the Fed
tonight,” said  Neil Dwane , who helps oversee about $80 billion
as chief investment officer at Allianz Global Investors’ RCM
unit.  National benchmark indexes fell in 8 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 fell 0.1 percent, the U.K.’s
FTSE 100 dropped 0.5 percent and Germany’s DAX Index lost 0.3
percent.  Irish Bonds  Ireland today sold 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) of bonds,
a day after its borrowing costs reached a record high and
central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said the government needs
to cut its budget deficit at a faster pace.  In Spain, the government sold 7 billion euros of 12-month
and 18-month bills, the maximum target, at an auction today,
while Greece sold 390 million euros of 13-week Treasury bills at
a yield of 3.98 percent, the Athens-based Public Debt Management
Agency said.  Nokia lost 4.5 percent to 7.52 euros amid reports the
world’s biggest maker of mobile phones is delaying shipment of
the N8, its newest flagship smartphone.  The company may push back shipment because of software
glitches, online industry websites Electronista and Endgadget
reported. Nokia denied this, and spokesman  Doug Dawson  said the
N8 will be shipped by month-end, as planned.  ‘Substantially Below’  Deutsche Bank AG lost 4.5 percent to 44.75 euros after the
Germany’s largest bank said third quarter pretax income for its
Corporate Banking & Securities division may be “substantially
below” last year’s level. The lender expects to report a third-
quarter net loss after taking into account a revaluation charge
related to its investment in Deutsche Postbank AG, the company
said in a prospectus today.  Legrand  SA fell 3.2 percent to 24.3 euros after KKR & Co.
LP and Wendel sold a 9 percent stake in the French maker of
electrical switches and plugs at 23.95 euros apiece.
      Natixis  slipped 4.7 percent to 4.35 euros as Goldman Sachs
downgraded the stock to “sell” from “neutral.”  SGS SA, the biggest goods inspector, dropped 3.3 percent to
1,638 francs after yesterday posting its biggest advance in more
than two weeks. The gains pushed the shares above a Relative
Strength Index of 70, a threshold that indicates to followers of
the technical indicator that a security is “overbought” and
poised to drop.  Safran, Zodiac  Safran SA rallied 5.8 percent to 21.57 euros after the
French maker of aerospace engines and equipment was upgraded to
“buy” from “neutral” at BofA Merrill Lynch.  Analysts said last week’s announcement from the families
that control 36 percent of the voting rights in Zodiac
Aerospace, which Safran is interested in buying, removes the
risk the company will overpay.  Zodiac ’s shares also advanced, rallying 5.9 percent to
49.64 euros. CEO  Olivier Zarrouati  said a recovery in the
aviation industry is clearly under way and the company will
benefit sales of both new equipment and spare parts.  Zarrouati also said the company remains “absolutely
convinced” that its future will be brighter if it remains
independent.  Wellstream soared by a record 29 percent to 785 pence after
the oilfield-services provider said it received a number of
preliminary approaches regarding a possible offer for the
company. Rival John Wood Group Plc climbed 6.6 percent to 416.2
pence, the biggest gain on the Stoxx 600.  Cairn Energy Plc  jumped 2.3 percent to 436.5 pence after
the company said an exploration well being drilled in Greenland
found its first pockets of oil and gas.  “The presence of both oil and gas confirms an active,
working petroleum system in the basin and is extremely
encouraging at this very early stage of our exploration campaign
for the Sigguk block and the entire area,” CEO  Bill Gammell 
said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 