-- Euro Advances as Irish, Spanish Auctions Ease Debt Concern
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-09-21T11:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/euro-advances-versus-dollar-as-irish-spanish-auctions-ease-debt-concern.html
The euro rose against the dollar
and the yen after investors bought the maximum amounts offered
at Spanish and Irish debt sales, easing concern that Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis will worsen.  Europe’s common currency advanced the most against the New
Zealand dollar and British pound among its 16 most-actively
traded peers. The dollar fell for a second day against the yen
and traded near a six-week low versus the euro on bets the
Federal Reserve will affirm its pledge to keep interest rates at
a record low for an “extended period.” The pound fell as the
U.K. posted a bigger-than-forecast  budget deficit  last month.  “The auctions are going well. That’s supporting the
euro,” said  Toshi Honda , a strategist at Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd. in London. “We have the FOMC tonight and the dollar has to
stay in a nervous range,”  The euro advanced to $1.3133 as of 7:20 a.m. in New York
from $1.3061 yesterday. It rose to $1.3159 on Sept. 17, the
strongest level since Aug. 11. The 16-nation currency bought
112.25 yen from 111.93 yesterday. The dollar was at 85.47 yen
from 85.69.  Ireland sold 1.5 billion euros ($1.97 billion) in a bond
auction, the National Treasury Management Agency said today.
Spain sold 7 billion euros of 12-month and 18-month bills, the
maximum target, the Bank of Spain said. Greece sold 390 million
euros of 13-week Treasury bills at a yield of 3.98 percent, the
Athens-based Public Debt Management Agency said.  Investor bets that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis is past
the worst have helped the euro recover 11 percent from its 2010
low of $1.1877 on June 7. The Brussels-based European Commission
said in a report Sept. 13 that gross domestic product in the 16-
nation euro area may advance 1.7 percent this year instead of a
previously projected 0.9 percent.  ‘Good News’  “The auction results were good news for the market,” said
Orlando Green, an interest-rate strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London.  The Federal Housing Finance Agency’s monthly index for U.S.
house prices fell 0.2 percent in July, after a 0.3 percent
decline in June, according to a Bloomberg survey before
tomorrow’s report. A Commerce Department report today will show
growth in housing  starts  slowed to a 0.7 percent increase in
August from 1.7 percent the month before, a separate survey
showed.  The Fed will keep its benchmark rate at between zero and
0.25 percent at today’s meeting, where it has been since
December 2008, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Fifty-four of 63
economists surveyed said the central bank will leave unchanged a
sentence saying high unemployment and low inflation warrant
“exceptionally low” rates.  ‘Ugly Parade’  “It’s an ugly parade and the least ugly currency at the
moment is the euro,” said  Robert Rennie , head of currency
research in Sydney at Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s second-
largest lender.  Britain’s currency declined 0.7 percent to 84.60 pence
against the euro. It was 0.1 percent weaker at $1.5529.  The U.K.’s net borrowing was 15.3 billion pounds ($23.7
billion), compared with 13.5 billion pounds a year earlier, the
Office for National Statistics said in London today. The median
of 15 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was a shortfall of
12.5 billion pounds. It was the largest deficit for any August
since records began in 1993.  The yuan climbed to the highest level since 1993 after
President  Barack Obama  criticized China for not letting it
strengthen. It advanced for a ninth day against the dollar, its
longest winning streak since Aug. 9, before scheduled talks
between Obama and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  at this week’s
United Nations General Assembly in New York.  Yuan Appreciation  China’s leaders haven’t done “everything they said would
be done” to allow appreciation, Obama said yesterday at an
hour-long town hall discussion in Washington.  “The yuan’s quicker appreciation is related to the
political game between China and the U.S. on the currency
policy,” said  Isaac Meng , a Beijing-based economist at BNP
Paribas. “It’s also related to the dollar’s broad weakness
because the yuan is managed against a basket of currencies.”  The yuan gained 0.1 percent to 6.7061 per dollar, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trading System.  The yen advanced against the dollar as concern that
Japanese officials would resume selling it eased.  The Bank of Japan doesn’t appear to be “trying to push the
yen an awful lot higher, they’ve had a fair a bit of criticism
already,” said  Paul Bednarczyk , a strategist in London at 4Cast
Ltd., a research company that counts central banks among its
subscribers. “It’s very hard for the Americans to lay into
China” while Japan is weakening its currency, he said.  Japan intervened in foreign exchange markets on Sept. 15
for the first time since 2004 to protect its exporters after the
yen rose to a 15-year high against the dollar. While that helped
the currency slump 3.3 percent on the day, it has climbed 0.3
percent since then.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net  