-- Ex-ABN Amro's Van Paridon to Raise $100 Million for Asia Macro Hedge Fund
-- Netty Ismail
-- 2010-09-21T01:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/ex-abn-amro-s-van-paridon-to-raise-100-million-for-asia-macro-hedge-fund.html

          
          
             Paridon Asia Pte, founded by a
former senior executive at ABN Amro Group NV, plans to raise
about $100 million for an Asia macro hedge fund within six
months as it seeks to tap increased asset flows into the region.  
 The Singapore-based firm, which has been trading $11
million of the principals’ money since May, plans to raise
assets from institutional investors such as pension funds,
insurance firms and endowments, Chief Executive Officer  Robert van Paridon  said. It aims to increase the size of the Paridon
Asia Macro Fund to $250 million within two years, the former
head of Asia strategy at ABN Amro said.  
 Macro funds, which seek to profit from broad economic
trends, were among the strategies that attracted assets in the
second quarter as investors allocated more than $360 million in
new capital to Asian hedge funds, Hedge Fund Research Inc. in
Chicago said. Asian long-short equity funds, which bet on rising
and falling stocks, account for 55 percent of strategies in Asia,
while macro funds represent about 4 percent, according to
Singapore-based consultancy firm GFIA Pte.  
 “Asia is still under-represented in terms of asset
allocation in investors’ portfolios globally,” van Paridon, 54,
said in an interview Sept. 20. “I see a pool of money growing
for investments in Asian hedge funds and macro is one that
investors are interested to increase their allocations to.”  
 Paridon’s fund lost 1.1 percent from May through July,
after fees equal to 1.5 percent of client assets and 20 percent
of investment profits, the manager said. Asian hedge funds, on
average, lost 4.3 percent in May as the sovereign debt crisis
swept through Europe, the worst monthly drop since October 2008,
according to Singapore-based data provider  Eurekahedge Pte .  
 “We tested our philosophy on how to manage risk during
this period,” van Paridon said. “It will be an exception if we
lose more than 2.5 percent on a month.”  
 Business Model  
 The fund needs to raise at least $250 million within two
years to “have a sustainable business model,” said van Paridon.
He said he has committed enough resources for the firm to
operate for the next two to three years.  
 Paridon Asia started with nine employees, including Chief
Investment Officer  Paul Berg , who previously worked at
Prudential Asset Management, and  Sean Yokota , its portfolio
manager who was formerly an economist covering Asia at UBS AG.  
 Seeding the fund with the principals’ money and financing
the expenses of the business during the first few years will
enable startups to “focus on managing the portfolio and
generate good numbers,” said  Stephane Pizzo , founder of Lotus
Peak Capital, a Singapore-based hedge-fund investing firm.  
 “Raising money remains very challenging for startups,”
Pizzo said. “Solid performance is very important as there are
no real benefits in being an early investor.”  
 Previous Positions  
 Paridon Asia will raise money for the fund starting at the
end of this month, its CEO said.  
 Van Paridon, who invested $10 million in the fund, held
various senior executive positions at ABN Amro in Europe, the
U.S. and Asia, including heading its investment banking business
in New York and as managing director of fixed income and foreign
exchange in Tokyo. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc acquired the
Dutch bank in 2007.  
 Berg, 38, contributed $1 million to the fund, the chief
investment officer said. He was formerly the investment director
for macro and derivative strategies at Prudential Asset
Management, where he oversaw more than $2 billion in assets.  
 Berg said he delivered an information ratio -- which
measures a portfolio manager’s ability to generate excess
returns relative to a benchmark -- of 1.7 on the largest fund
that he managed, with gains for 27 out of 37 months.  
 Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        