-- Fashion Opts for Safety in Paris, Milan Amid Recovery `Clouds'
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-09-21T22:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/fashion-opts-for-safety-in-paris-milan-amid-clouds-over-luxury-recovery.html
Less may still be more at Milan and
Paris Fashion Weeks.  Even amid signs that demand for luxury clothing and
accessories is returning, makers of the goods will “play it
safe” for spring-summer 2011, according to Sue Evans, senior
editor of catwalks at fashion forecaster  WGSN . The shows start
today in the Italian city before moving to the French capital.  “People are still adjusting to life after the crunch,”
said Averyl Oates, buying director at U.K. department store
Harvey Nichols. “If someone is looking to spend a large sum of
money on a coat for instance, they want to be sure it isn’t
going to become redundant next season.”  Fashion and luxury-goods companies have responded to the
recession by toning down their selections, focusing on classic
looks and emphasizing quality and craftsmanship. Companies
including  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA  and  Hermes
International SCA  posted double-digit revenue growth in the six
months through June as shoppers, particularly from China, spent
more and distributors restocked inventories.  “The recovery in luxury consumption has been quicker and
more robust than we could have expected,” Salvatore Ferragamo
SpA Chief Executive Officer  Michele Norsa  said in an interview.
“Consumers have returned to spend in a significant manner.”  The worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended
in June 2009, the National Bureau of Economic Research said this
week. Yet the slowdown in economic growth in the world’s largest
economy raises the possibility of another slump.  Bondage Dresses  Luxury sales growth will slow in the second half of 2010,
mainly because of a tougher basis of comparison from the final
months of 2009, when the recovery started to take hold. Total
sales by luxury companies listed in Europe may rise 11 percent
in 2010, slowing from the 14 percent rate in the first half,
HSBC analyst  Antoine Belge  estimates. They’ll likely advance 7.5
percent next year, according to the analyst.  Gucci, the Italian brand owned by Paris-based  PPR SA ,
boosted its first-half operating margin by 1.5 percentage point
after introducing tailored pants and coats for fall, contrasting
with its spring-summer 2010 “bondage-style” dresses and shoes.
The luxury brand’s move “up market” to a more discreet
positioning is allowing it to sell more higher-priced goods, PPR
CEO  Francois-Henri Pinault  said in July.  Longer Skirts  “Although sexiness remains the trademark of the Gucci
woman, my guess is that we are not likely to see bondage dresses
on the Gucci catwalk for quite some time,”  Paola Brandi ,
visiting professor at Paris-based fashion university  ESMOD , said
in a phone interview.  Longer skirt lengths and elongated silhouettes, which
emerged last season at Prada and Louis Vuitton and continued
during New York Fashion Week, may feature in Milan and Paris,
according to WGSN’s Evans. Looks inspired by the ‘70s, such as
“high-rise flared pant shapes,” and “a sort of deluxe hippy
feel,” may also return, said Jodie Ball, WGSN’s fashion editor
of catwalks.  Some are concerned about the sustainability of the
recovery. It’s “too soon” to draw any conclusions given the
levels of debt in the U.S. and parts of Europe,  Cie. Compagnie
Richemont SA  Chairman and CEO  Johann Rupert  said Sept. 8. “We
have to be cautious” amid an uncertain economic outlook, LVMH
Chairman and CEO  Bernard Arnault  said in July.  “The current environment is much better than last year but
there’s still uncertainty in some parts of the world,”  Dennis Weber , an analyst at Evolution Securities in London, said in a
phone interview.  Bulgari, Brioni  To be sure, designers will still need to innovate to keep
Asian customers interested and drive market share gains in the
U.S. and Europe, according to Evolution’s Weber. “Brand equity
will be increasingly important,” especially for labels with
limited distribution, Weber said.  Bulgari SpA  will present a handbag collection by  Matthew Williamson  in Milan, marking the first time the jeweler has
collaborated with a fashion designer.  Tod’s SpA  will unveil a
one-time clothing and accessories line by German designer  Karl Lagerfeld  under the Hogan brand.  Brioni Roman Style SpA  will
show its first full collection by new women’s wear designer
Alessandro Dell’Acqua, the former Malo designer hired in May.  As growth slows, prices will probably be unchanged overall,
though designers may include fewer items at the low-end of the
range, Weber said.  They will also be helped by increased spending from
retailers. Their budgets were up by about 20 percent last season
as distributors restocked inventories, said  Armando Branchini ,
vice president of Milan-based consulting firm Intercorporate.
For spring-summer 2011, retailers like Bloomingdales,  Saks Inc. ,
Bergdorf Goodman and Neiman Marcus will have to buy more
merchandise than last year to compete with one another,
Branchini said.  Still, after the credit crunch, most houses are proceeding
with caution.  “There are a few clouds appearing in the sky again and
this immediately can push these high-end consumers who are
normally very well informed to pull the brakes,” said Francesco
Pesci, Brioni’s commercial director.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 