-- Fed Prepared to Ease Further to Revive U.S. Economy
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2010-09-21T18:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/fed-says-it-s-prepared-to-ease-further-refrains-from-new-asset-purchases.html
The Federal Reserve said it’s
willing to ease monetary policy further to boost the economy
and lower unemployment while refraining today from expanding
its holdings of securities.  “The committee will continue to monitor the economic
outlook and financial developments and is prepared to provide
additional accommodation if needed to support the economic
recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate,” the Federal Open Market
Committee said today in a statement in Washington. The Fed
reiterated that it would keep the benchmark lending rate in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent “for an extended period.”  Policy makers said the pace of recovery and job growth
have “slowed in recent months.” The committee also said
inflation is “currently at levels somewhat below” what
officials judge to be consistent with price stability.  The FOMC retained its stance from last month of keeping
its portfolio stable at around $2 trillion to keep money from
draining out of the financial system.  “Inflation is likely to remain subdued for some time
before rising to levels the committee considers consistent with
its mandate,” the statement said.  Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank President  Thomas Hoenig 
dissented against the decision for a sixth straight meeting,
tying a record for most consecutive dissents at regular FOMC
meetings since 1955 because he “believed that continuing to
express the expectation of exceptionally low levels of the
federal funds rate for an extended period was no longer
warranted.”  U.S. central bankers are on guard against an economy that
may be stuck at a pace of growth that won’t generate higher
levels of employment for years to come. Fed officials in June
forecast the unemployment rate would be in a range of 6.8
percent to 7.9 percent by 2012.  Recession Ends  The National Bureau of Economic Research yesterday said
the worst recession since the 1930s ended in June 2009.
 Unemployment  in the U.S. may stay above pre-recession levels
until at least 2013, the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said in a report the same day.  Gross domestic product expanded at a 1.6 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, and St. Louis forecasting firm
Macroeconomic Advisers estimates growth is tracking at a 1.4
percent annual rate for the third quarter.  “The economy should continue to grow, albeit
anemically,”  Dan Greenhaus , chief economic strategist at
Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said before the announcement.
“The question for Fed members is, to what degree can monetary
policy help the economy grow from here?”  Bernanke told central bankers gathered in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming, on Aug. 27 that “preconditions for a pickup in growth
in 2011” appear to be in place. Even so, policy makers are
“prepared to provide additional monetary accommodation through
unconventional measures if it proves necessary, especially if
the outlook were to deteriorate significantly.”  Erosion of Confidence  Bernanke said the benefits of a resumption of large-scale
asset purchases must be weighed against risks that include an
erosion of public confidence that the Fed will be able to
reduce its balance sheet and prevent a surge in inflation.  Since Bernanke’s Jackson Hole speech, reports on retail
sales, manufacturing and employment have tempered investor
concerns that the economy is at risk of sliding back into a
recession.  Retail sales rose in August for the second consecutive
month, and the Institute for Supply Management’s factory index
rose to a three-month high. Companies in the U.S. added 67,000
jobs last month, more than forecast by economists.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has rallied 7 percent
since Bernanke’s Aug. 27 speech and is up more than 2 percent
this year. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note has fallen
1.17 percentage point to 2.66 percent since Jan. 1.  Consumer Spending  Even so, the pace of payroll growth is too slow to make up
for the loss of more than 8 million jobs caused by the
recession or spur the consumer spending that makes up more than
70 percent of the economy.  Memphis-based FedEx Corp., the second-largest U.S.
package-shipping company, said last week it will eliminate
1,700 jobs as it forecast earnings for the current quarter that
fell short of analysts’ estimates.  “If you are outside the workforce right now, the door is
barely cracked open,”  John Challenger , chief executive officer
of Challenger, Gray & Christmas, a Chicago-based outplacement
firm that helps 5,000 to 10,000 workers a year find new jobs,
said before the announcement.  Consumer confidence fell in September to a one-year low,
according to an index compiled by Thomson Reuters and the
University of Michigan.  Companies have little pricing power after the recession
ravaged incomes and household finances. The consumer price
index, minus food and energy, rose 0.9 percent for the 12
months ending August.  Luring Shoppers  To attract shoppers, companies such as Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Cincinnati-based  Kroger
Co.  are discounting merchandise.  “Our customer remains challenged,”  William Simon ,
president and chief operating officer of Wal-Mart’s U.S.
operations, said at an analyst presentation Sept. 15. “We need
to figure out how to operate in this environment.”  Household wealth in the U.S. fell 2.8 percent in the
second quarter as share prices were depressed by the European
debt crisis, according to the Fed’s Flow of Funds report on
Sept. 17. The Census Bureau said last week that the number of
Americans living in poverty rose to 43.6 million, the most in
51 years.  Gross domestic product will expand at an average annual
pace of 2.5 percent next year, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of economists this month, down from a
forecast of 2.8 percent in early August.  “The longer you have weak growth the longer you have no
underlying healing in your economy,”  Ethan Harris , head of
North American Economics at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch, said
before the announcement. “You don’t heal the housing market,
you don’t heal the household balance sheet. By allowing growth
to sit below trend, you create a huge window of vulnerability
to a shock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  