-- Fed Under Pressure Amid Confusion Over New Easing
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2010-09-21T12:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/fed-under-pressure-to-avoid-creating-confusion-over-potential-for-easing.html
Federal Reserve officials are under
pressure to avoid creating confusion among investors about any
new effort to spur the U.S. recovery.  The Federal Open Market Committee, which meets today,
triggered a stock selloff with its last statement on Aug. 10 as
investors took it as a signal the economy will falter. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 7.1 percent during the two
weeks following the statement after reaching a three-month high
on Aug. 9. The MSCI World Index fell 7.3 percent.  With consumer confidence falling and joblessness persisting
at more than 9.5 percent, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  must identify
the changes in the economy that would prompt more asset
purchases or some other stimulus, said  Timothy Duy , a former
U.S. Treasury Department economist. Central bank officials may
appear to be divided over their next policy move unless they
provide such guidance, he said.  “They have to do a better job of centering expectations of
what ultimately the policy intention is and how will they reach
that,” said Duy, an economist at the University of Oregon.
“Given that we are in uncharted waters for policy, the risks of
getting it wrong will be magnified.”  The FOMC started its one-day meeting around 8 a.m. today in
Washington and is scheduled to release a policy statement at
about 2:15 p.m. The meeting takes place one day after the
National Bureau of Economic Research announced that the longest
and deepest U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended in
June 2009, lasting 18 months.  Dollar Declines  The dollar declined to $1.3117 per euro as of 8:17 a.m. in
New York from $1.3061 late yesterday, after falling to $1.3159
on Sept. 17, the weakest since Aug. 11.  The Fed will probably affirm its pledge to keep interest
rates low for an “extended period” and maintain a $2.05
trillion floor on its holdings of securities, said economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News Sept. 16-17.  Fifty-four of 63 economists in the survey said the central
bank will leave unchanged a sentence saying high unemployment
and low inflation warrant “exceptionally low” rates. The Fed
has kept its  benchmark interest rate  in a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  Investors anticipate the Fed will move to boost the economy
by the end of the year, though not necessarily in today’s
meeting, according to the Bloomberg Global Poll, a quarterly
survey of 1,408 investors and analysts who are Bloomberg
subscribers. Sixty-seven percent said policy makers are very
likely or fairly likely to ease monetary policy by buying bonds
in 2010.  Signs of Weakening  “If you listen about what they’ve said, they said they’re
going to ease further if the economy shows signs of further
weakening,” said  Jerry Webman , chief economist and senior
investment officer at OppenheimerFunds in New York, which
manages more than $155 billion. The economy has appeared to
stabilize over the past month, and the threshold for additional
purchases of securities hasn’t yet been crossed, he said.  Investors don’t believe Fed purchases of long-term
securities would boost the economy, according to the Bloomberg
Global Poll. Sixty-five percent of respondents hold that view,
with only 30 percent indicating the move would be effective.  Central bank policy makers voted 9-1 on Aug. 10 to keep the
Fed’s holdings of securities at $2.05 trillion, rather than
allow an estimated $400 billion of housing debt to roll off as
mortgages were repaid. The Fed began purchasing Treasuries to
keep the floor on holdings.  Treasury Yields  Treasuries rallied in the weeks following the Fed
announcement. The yield on the 10-year note fell to a 19-month
low of 2.42 percent on Aug. 25 from 2.82 percent the day before
the FOMC meeting. The yield fell 3 basis points yesterday to
2.70 percent in New York trading.  “There is little reason for the Fed to change the
statement this time,” said  Lyle Gramley , a former Fed governor
who’s now a senior economic adviser for the Potomac Research
Group in Washington.  A decision today to expand the balance sheet would be a
mistake, said  John Ryding , co-founder and chief economist at RDQ
Economics LLC in New York and a former Fed researcher.  “I’d consider it a massive policy error because not only
have they failed to communicate it, they’d be signaling that
things are so bad that the negative expectation consequences
from that would easily swamp any positive effect that comes from
creating more money this way,” Ryding said.  Doubts Expressed  Some Fed presidents have expressed doubt that monetary
policy can buoy the economy. The unemployment rate is stuck
close to a 26-year-high because murky tax and regulatory
policies complicate planning by businesses, Dallas Fed President
 Richard Fisher  said.  The skills and location of unemployed workers aren’t
aligned with job openings, Minneapolis Fed President  Narayana Kocherlakota  said last month. The problem may not be “readily
amenable to monetary policy,” he said.  “I just don’t think what ails the economy is at all
related to monetary policy so from that point of view, what do
you communicate” as a  policy maker ? Ryding said.  “You can’t say, ‘We’re done, we’re out of bullets.’ You
have to maintain the position that there’s always more you can
do and you can react powerfully,” he said. “To say otherwise
is to potentially undermine confidence.”  Economic growth eased to a 1.6 percent pace in the second
quarter following a 3.7 percent gain in the first quarter,
according to revised data released Aug. 27. FedEx Corp., the
second-largest U.S. package-shipping company, said last week it
will eliminate 1,700 jobs, less than 1 percent of its global
workforce, because of flagging growth.  “We expect a phase of somewhat slower economic growth going
forward,” Chief Executive Officer  Fred Smith  said on a
conference call with analysts. “Slower growth is consistent
with historical business cycles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  