-- FIFA's Valcke Issues Warning on Collusion Over 2018, 2022 World Cup Bids
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-09-21T14:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/fifa-s-valcke-issues-warning-on-collusion-over-2018-2022world-cup-bids.html
Countries bidding to host soccer’s
World Cup in 2018 or 2022 have been warned to stick to the rules
after speculation about voting collusion reached the sport’s
governing body.  “We will send reminders on the rules and conduct via our
ethics committee,” FIFA General Secretary  Jerome Valcke , the
organization’s second-highest executive, said in an e-mail sent
to Bloomberg today.  FIFA’s  24-member executive will decide in December where
sports’ most-watched event will be staged after Brazil in 2014.
Until then nine bidders are spending millions of dollars
traveling the world lobbying for support.  “Rumors” of vote-sharing between a European bidder for
the 2018 tournament and a candidate for the 2022 event have been
heard by FIFA, Valcke said. Soliciting single votes or block
votes from rival bidders isn’t allowed.  Bidders “are prohibited from entering into any kind of
agreement with any other member association or bid committee as
regards to the behavior during the bid process,”  FIFA’s rules
state .  Four European candidates -- England, Russia, Spain-Portugal
and Holland-Belgium -- are competing with the U.S. to host the
2018 edition. The U.S. is also a candidate for the 2022 race
where Qatar, Australia, Japan and South Korea are bidding.  “There are a lot of rumors around 18/22,” Valcke said in
the e-mail. “But I think we are monitoring efficiently what is
done by the nine bidders, and we will also inform our executive
committee members again at our next meeting in October about
such rumors on vote-sharing and their responsibility.”  Earlier this month a group of FIFA technical inspectors
completed a tour of all the candidate countries by visiting
Qatar, which is hoping to become the first Middle East host of
the World Cup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser 
 celser@bloomberg.net  