-- Former Critic of `Foolish' Intervention Becomes Japan Vice Finance Chief
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2010-09-21T08:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/former-critic-of-foolish-intervention-becomes-japan-vice-finance-chief.html
A politician who once cited
traders as saying Japan’s currency-market intervention
efforts were “foolish” and who has criticized the Finance
Ministry’s policies was named vice finance minister.  Japan’s cabinet today approved the appointment of
 Fumihiko Igarashi  as one of two vice finance chiefs, Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  told reporters in Tokyo. Igarashi, 61,
who started out as a political reporter at Jiji Press and is
a Lower House member of parliament, published a book in 2006
saying the Finance Ministry was the “virtual ruler” of
Japan.  Igarashi’s selection comes less than a week after Japan
sold yen in the currency market for the first time in six
years. While the finance minister is in charge of ordering
intervention, his new deputy may express opposition to
Japan’s yen-selling effort if it doesn’t look to be working,
said economist  Masamichi Adachi .  “He’d probably be one of the officials who would oppose
intervention if it gets to the point where yen sales aren’t
looking effective,” says Adachi, a senior economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. “The yen weakened but it’s still hard
to imagine that the Japanese government can prevent a strong
yen once investors start buying it in reaction to any further
Fed easing or concern about the U.S. economy.”  The currency was trading at 85.43 per dollar around 5:03
p.m. in Tokyo. It reached a 15-year high earlier this month
amid speculation the Federal Reserve will boost monetary
stimulus to aid the slowing U.S. economy. The surge prompted
Japan to enter the currency market on Sep. 15.  ‘Foolish Intervention’  In 2004, when his Democratic Party of Japan was in the
opposition, Igarashi told parliament that traders were
talking about the Japanese government’s “foolish
intervention,” because it appeared that authorities were
merely trying to use up the money allotted for such action
instead of stopping the yen’s appreciation.  “Have you reflected on this,” Igarashi asked then-
Finance Minister  Sadakazu Tanigaki , who responded by calling
on Igarashi to take back the “foolish intervention” comment.  Asked about his past remarks on intervention and what he
thought of Japan’s currency-market action last week, Igarashi
said today that intervention “is a topic reserved for the
finance minister.” The Finance Ministry makes decisions on
intervention and the Bank of Japan carries them out.  Japan’s cabinet chose as the other vice finance minister
Mitsuru Sakurai, 54, a doctor and a third-term Upper House
lawmaker.  Tax Policy  Noda said today that Igarashi will oversee tax matters
and international affairs, and Sakurai will be in charge of
the budget and the ministry’s relations with the Bank of
Japan.  Japan spent about 35 trillion yen between January 2003
and March 2004 to stop the yen’s advance, and then stayed out
of the currency market for six years until last week. In
March 2004, the yen was around 109 per dollar.  The Bank of Japan last week said deposits held by
financial companies at the central bank climbed by 2 trillion
yen ($23 billion), in an indication of the size of the Sept.
15 intervention.  Igarashi has published two books critical of the Finance
Ministry, including, in 2006, “Zaimusho’s Return to Power; A
Virtual Ruler of Japan,” referring to the Japanese name for
the department.  He has said that tax increases and cuts in social
welfare spending that the Finance Ministry espouse benefit
the ministry and not the Japanese people.  Igarashi said on Aug. 25 in Tokyo that he’s more
concerned about an economic slump next year than the current
state of economy, and called for a new stimulus package to
prevent a slowdown.  As export growth decelerated to 23.5 percent in July,
its slowest pace this year, the overall economy grew at a 1.5
percent annual rate in the second quarter, less than half the
pace of the previous period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net  