-- Forzani Group, Potash Corp., Sprott: Canadian Equity Preview
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-09-22T13:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/forzani-group-potash-corp-may-move-canadian-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have  unusual  moves in  Canadian trading .  Enerplus Resources Fund  (ERF-U CT): The country’s fourth-
biggest energy trust by market value said it agreed to buy
46,500 net acres in the Bakken area of North Dakota and last
month bought 58,500 net acres in the Marcellus area of West
Virginia and Maryland. The company has also agreed to sell non-
core assets that will bring its 2010 divestment proceeds to more
than C$900 million ($879 million).  Fort Chicago Energy Partners L.P.  (FCE-U CT): The owner of
natural gas interests agreed to make an offer to purchase
Pristine Power Inc., which owns stakes in power plants in
Canada. Fort Chicago valued the deal at C$314 million including
assumption of debt.  Forzani Group Ltd.  (FGL CT): Canada’s largest sporting-
goods retailer said same-store sales for the seven weeks ending
Sept. 19 rose 5.8 percent from 2009’s back-to-school season.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  (POT CT): The Financial
Times reported Sinochem Group has appointed Deutsche Bank AG and
Citigroup Inc. to help it “evaluate moves to disrupt” BHP
Billiton Ltd.’s bid for Potash, the world’s largest fertilizer
producer. The newspaper cited people familiar with the matter.  Power Financial Corp.  (PWF CT): The financial holding
company’s Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Orr  is scheduled to
address the CIBC Eastern Institutional Investor Conference in
Montreal. Power Financial owns majority stakes in Great-West
Lifeco Inc. and IGM Financial Inc.  Sprott Inc.  (SII CT): The money manager agreed in principle
to buy Rule Investments Inc., Terra Resource Investment
Management Inc. and Resource Capital Investments Corp. for 20
million to 28 million Sprott shares. Sprott had 150 million
shares outstanding as of Aug. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  