-- France Telecom Pays EU640 Million for Stake in Meditel
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2010-09-22T07:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/france-telecom-will-buy-40-of-meditel-for-840-million-to-enter-morocco.html
(Corrects story from Sept. 21 to fix date in sixth
paragraph.)  France Telecom SA  is buying 40
percent of Medi Telecom SA, Morocco’s second-largest mobile-
phone operator, for 640 million euros ($840 million), as part of
its plan to expand in emerging markets.  The deal between France’s largest phone company and Meditel
owners Groupe CDG and FinanceCom SA was signed today, the
companies said in a statement. They have agreed to list Meditel
shares on the Casablanca bourse “in the short-to-medium term.”  France Telecom Chief Executive Officer  Stephane Richard  has
targeted Africa and the Middle East for international expansion
to offset a sluggish domestic market. The company will spend as
much as 7 billion euros on deals in the region, he said in an
April interview. Entering Morocco will bring France Telecom into
direct competition with French rival  Vivendi SA , which owns 53
percent of market leader Maroc Telecom.  Morocco is “an attractive market from a demographic
standpoint,” said  Jason Willey , an analyst at Standard & Poor’s
Equity Research in London. “There’s plenty of evidence from
around the world that a number two or even a number three player
can generate attractive returns.”  France Telecom shares were little changed in Paris trading,
closing at 16.42 euros. They’ve fallen 5.8 percent this year,
valuing the company at about 43.5 billion euros.  France Telecom plans to raise its stake in Meditel to 49
percent by 2015, Richard said at a press conference in Rabat.  “We have great confidence in the potential for growth in
this country,” he said.  Expanding Sales  The Meditel deal “is the first manifestation of our new
policy of growth outside of Europe,” he said in the statement.  Through its Orange brand, France Telecom operates in
Tunisia and African countries including Kenya and the Ivory
Coast. Vivendi has also expanded to African countries including
Mali and Burkina Faso through Maroc Telecom, the country’s
former state telecommunications company.  Meditel, based in Casablanca, posted a 12 percent rise in
 sales  to about 2.7 billion dirhams ($320 million) in the first
half this year, with earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization of about 1 billion dirhams.  Meditel entered the Moroccan market in 2000 as part of the
country’s liberalization of its telecommunications industry, and
has a 37 percent market share, according to today’s statement.
This year, it said it had more than 10 million customers.  Telefonica SA  and  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA  both held 32
percent stakes in Meditel until last September, which they sold
for 400 million euros each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Ola Galal  in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 