-- France Telecom Said to Spend $840 Million on 40% of Morocco's Meditel
-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-09-21T13:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/france-telecom-said-to-pay-eu640-million-for-40-of-morocco-s-meditel.html
France Telecom SA  is buying 40
percent of Medi Telecom SA, Morocco’s second-largest mobile-
phone operator, for 640 million euros ($840 million), according
to two people familiar with the situation.  The transaction is likely to be announced today, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the deal has not
been made public. France Telecom confirmed in August that it was
in talks with Meditel’s owners, Groupe CDG and FinanceCom SA,
that might lead to an “industrial partnership.”  France Telecom Chief Executive Officer  Stephane Richard  has
targeted Africa and the Middle East for international expansion
to offset a sluggish domestic market. The company will spend as
much as 7 billion euros on deals in the region, he said in an
April interview. Entering Morocco will bring France Telecom into
direct competition with French rival  Vivendi SA , which owns 53
percent of market leader Maroc Telecom.  Morocco is “an attractive market from a demographic
standpoint,” said  Jason Willey , an analyst at Standard & Poor’s
Equity Research in London. “There’s plenty of evidence from
around the world that a number two or even a number three player
can generate attractive returns.”  Tom Wright , a spokesman for France Telecom in Paris,
declined to comment, as did spokespeople for Meditel. The
Moroccan company will hold a press conference at 3:00 p.m. in
Rabat, according to Hassan Bouchachia, a Meditel spokesman.  France Telecom rose  as much as 1.1 percent. The shares were
0.8 percent higher at 16.54 euros as of 3:25 p.m. in Paris.  Expanding Sales  Through its Orange brand, France Telecom operates in
Tunisia and African countries including Kenya and the Ivory
Coast. Vivendi has also expanded to African countries including
Mali and Burkina Faso through Maroc Telecom, the country’s
former state telecommunications company.  Meditel, based in Casablanca, posted a 12 percent rise in
 sales  to about 2.7 billion dirhams ($320 million) in the first
half this year, with earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization of about 1 billion dirhams.  Meditel entered the Moroccan market in 2000 as part of the
country’s liberalization of its telecommunications industry.
This year, it said it had more than 10 million customers.  Telefonica SA  and  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA  both held 32
percent stakes in Meditel until last September, which they sold
for 400 million euros each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Ola Galal  in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 