-- Switzerland's Franc Slips Against Euro After Irish, Spanish Debt Auctions
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-09-21T15:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/franc-advances-on-speculation-federal-reserve-may-hint-at-asset-purchases.html
The franc weakened against the euro
after investors snapped up the maximum amount at Irish and
Spanish debt auctions, assuaging concern that Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis will worsen and sapping demand for safety.  The Swiss currency snapped two days of gains versus the
euro. Ireland sold 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) of bonds and
Spain auctioned 7 billion euros of bills. Irish 10-year bonds
snapped a six-day decline, sending the yield difference with
German bunds lower, after reaching more than 400 basis points
for the first time yesterday.  “The franc’s weakness comes on the back of some reasonably
successful peripheral bond auctions,” said  Adam Cole , London-
based global head of currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s
RBC Capital Markets unit.  The franc fell 0.4 percent against the euro to 1.3182 as of
4:30 p.m. in London. It was little changed at 1.045 per dollar.  Investors traditionally buy the franc during times of
financial and economic turmoil and offload their holdings of the
currency when they want to take on more risk. The franc has
weakened from the record 1.2766 per euro it reached on Sept. 8.  The currency has climbed 4 percent this year against a
basket of currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes.  FOMC Meeting  The franc advanced earlier against the dollar ahead of a
Federal Open Market Committee policy announcement today. Fifty-
four of 63 economists surveyed by Bloomberg said the U.S.
central bank will leave unchanged a sentence saying high
unemployment and low inflation warrant “exceptionally low”
rates. Pacific Investment Management Co. said the Fed statement
will prepare investors for additional purchases of securities
this year, a policy known as quantitative easing.  “The main driver for the franc is going to be the FOMC
announcement this evening,”  Cole  said. “There is a quite
sizeable minority of people who think we will get something from
the Fed today.”  The dollar may strengthen should the Federal Reserve
refrain from outlining new policy measures to stimulate the
economy, according to  UBS AG .  “If no further quantitative easing is announced, the U.S.
dollar should be supported as it has been dampened by
expectations of further quantitative easing in recent weeks,”
 Gareth Berry , a strategist in Singapore, wrote today in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  