-- French Pork Exchange Postpones Trading as Farmers Squeal at Price Decline
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2010-09-21T16:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/french-pork-exchange-postpones-trading-as-farmers-squeal-at-price-decline.html
France’s only pig exchange deferred
trading until Sept. 23, the first postponement in a year, after
farmers and slaughterers failed to agree on a price that would
cover rising feed costs for hog breeders.  Pork is traded twice a week at the  Marche du Porc Breton  in
Plerin, Brittany. Yesterday’s market was put off after it
“quite quickly” became clear there would be no agreement on
prices, said Benoit Monin, the market’s head of sales.  Corn futures have surged 61 percent this year on NYSE Liffe
in Paris as drought reduced grain production in Russia and
Ukraine, pushing up costs for animal feed. French corn
production is also expected to fall after a dry summer,
according to crops office FranceAgriMer.  “It’s linked to the pork price and the returns for the
producers,” Monin said by phone today. “The price of feed is
shooting up like an arrow, the breeders are losing margin. The
situation of the slaughterers isn’t easy either.”  European Union makers of feed for livestock expect herds to
shrink “significantly” if cereal prices stay at current
levels, Alexander Doering, secretary-general of the European
Feed Manufacturers’ Federation, said Sept. 10. Pig farmers had
already reacted to higher costs by buying fewer piglets and not
filling their stables, Doering said.  Pigs for slaughter are traded in Plerin every week on
Monday from 2:30 p.m. and on Thursday at 10:30 a.m. About 10,000
to 15,000 pigs are traded in lots during the Monday session,
which usually lasts 45 minutes, and around 60,000 animals on
Thursday in a session that generally takes about 2 hours, Monin
said. The pigs are transported straight from farms to
slaughterhouses after the lots are traded at the exchange.  Spanish, German Competition  Average prices fell 0.5 cent to 1.20 euros ($1.58) a
kilogram (2.2 pounds) at the market on Sept. 16, according to
the exchange.  Plerin pork prices  have fallen in the past six trading
sessions, slipping from this year’s peak of 1.247 euros per
kilogram on Aug. 26. The price of French pork rose from 1.014
euros on Dec. 30, data from the Marche du Porc Breton shows.  The postponement yesterday was the first since September
last year, Monin said.  French pig processors are having trouble raising prices
because of competition from Spanish and German imports, as well
as resistance from retailers to price increases, he said.  France is the third-largest EU pig producer, with a hog
population of 14.8 million animals at the end of 2009, behind
Germany and Spain with 26.7 million and 26.3 million pigs
respectively, according to data from Eurostat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 