-- Basel Rules Could Have Been More Stringent, FSA's Turner Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-09-22T00:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/fsa-s-turner-says-basel-rules-should-have-required-higher-capital-ratios.html
The chairman of the U.K.’s
financial regulator would have set even higher capital ratios if
he’d drafted the new Basel III banking rules.  “If we were philosopher kings designing a banking system
entirely anew for a greenfield economy, should we have set still
higher capital ratios than in the Basel III regime? Yes I
believe we should,” the Financial Services Authority’s  Adair Turner  told bankers at the Mansion House dinner in London’s
financial district. “But starting from where we actually are,
the Basel III reforms will significantly improve the resilience
of our banking systems.”  Regulators of the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
reached an agreement Sept. 12 for rules that more than double
capital requirements for banks, while giving them as long as
eight years to comply. Germany had sought to give firms a decade
to make the transition, while the U.S., U.K. and Switzerland
pushed for a maximum of five years.  “While Basel III and new approaches to systemically
important firms are important steps to a more resilient system,
they are not in themselves sufficient,” Turner said yesterday.
“Alongside permanent rules, we need processes for evaluating
emerging risks, for changing the rules if needed, and for
pulling policy levers which are discretionary and varied.”  Basel III requires lenders to have common equity equal to
at least 7 percent of assets, weighted according to their risk.  More Than Basel  Big British banks are likely to be forced to hold more
capital than required under the Basel rules, Turner said in an
interview with the Financial Times.  “We want to preserve the freedom to go beyond the absolute
minimums, in particular in relation to our approach to
systemically important banks,” the FT cited Turner as saying,
adding that he also said he would push forward with plans for
U.K. liquidity requirements.  The FSA, which was criticized for its regulation in the
wake of the global financial crisis, is being abolished by Prime
Minister David Cameron’s coalition government and its powers
distributed. Turner said inadequate regulation was more to blame
for the near collapse of the banking system than excessive
leverage and bonuses.  As part of its abolition, an independent Consumer
Protection and Markets Authority will get the agency’s powers to
regulate exchanges and credit products as well as police market
abuse and fine banks. The Bank of England will oversee the
financial soundness of lenders and insurers.  ‘Crucial Gap’  The U.K.’s creation of a new Financial Policy Committee
“will fill the crucial gap” in the regulatory structure by
limiting credit booms, Turner said.  “The full toolkit to achieve that constraint is still to
be defined,” he said. “It will certainly include
countercyclical capital buffers, increased to slow down
excessive credit growth, reduced to support lending in
recessions.”  The agency may also limit commercial real-estate lending
and set maximum loan-to-value ratios, Turner said.  Excessive risk-taking tied to bonuses has been blamed for
contributing to a record number of bailouts and drawn the
scrutiny of regulators including the FSA.  “There were some absurd bonuses for excessive risk-taking:
there was an explosion of exotic product development which last
year I labeled as ‘socially useless,’ a phrase from which I in
no way draw back,” Turner said. “There were failures in risk-
management practices and systems which top management and boards
should have put right, and which the FSA, as we have openly
admitted, should more aggressively have challenged.”  ‘Ill-Designed Policy’  Turner, who last week defended new bonus rules that have
drawn concern from money managers, said “ill-designed policy is
a more powerful force for harm than individual greed or error.”  The FSA in July proposed expanding to 2,500 from 27 the
number of firms covered by European Union compensation rules. EU
governments agreed in June that directors of banks that received
public money must justify their bonuses and lenders must report
how many workers earn more than 1 million euros ($1.3 million).  “We do need appropriate regulation of bonuses to reduce
incentives for excessive risk taking,” Turner said. “We also
need to move beyond the demonization of overpaid traders and
their unnecessary CDO-squareds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 