-- Funds Grab a Rising Share of European Buyout Loans
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-09-21T16:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/funds-nab-biggest-share-of-europe-buyout-loans-since-2007-credit-markets.html
Investors are providing the biggest
share of speculative-grade loans for borrowers in Europe since
before the credit crisis as returns on the debt accelerate and
banks pare lending to build capital.  Pension managers, hedge funds and other investors account
for about 35 percent of so-called leveraged loans in Europe this
year, the most since a record 62 percent in 2007, according to
Standard & Poor’s LCD. Such institutions are providing about 44
percent of the 1.27 billion pounds ($2 billion) in loans to
finance the purchase of U.K. credit card processor WorldPay by
private-equity firms, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Leveraged loans, typically used to finance acquisitions,
returned 2.5 percent in Europe this quarter, the most this year,
while corporate bonds gained 1.2 percent, according to S&P LCD
and Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The greater
involvement of institutional investors may encourage European
buyouts, whose value has already tripled this year.  “Leveraged loans are one of the few asset classes that can
provide both stable and solid returns throughout different
stages of the economic cycle,” said  Alan Kerr , Dublin-based
managing director and co-head of Harbourmaster Capital
Management Ltd., which focuses on senior secured loans.  While the trend means money is increasingly available, it
may be more expensive because investors demand a higher return
than commercial banks to lend, according to  Craig Abouchar , a
money manager at Castle Hill Asset Management in London. The
firm invests in leveraged loans.  Banks Retrench  Rates on European leveraged loans averaged 4.13 percentage
points more than benchmarks this year, up from 3.07 percentage
points in 2007, according to Bloomberg data.  Banks are providing a smaller share of loans as capital
rules designed to prevent a rerun of the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression make it more expensive to lend to
riskier borrowers. Leveraged loans are typically rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- by S&P.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt was little changed at 171 basis points, or 1.71
percentage points, the lowest since May 17, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields averaged 3.566 percent.  DuPont Co. led $13 billion of U.S. company bond sales
yesterday as a surge in issuance extended into a third week,
while  General Electric Co.  bonds were the most actively traded
U.S. corporate notes by dealers.  DuPont Offering  DuPont, the third-largest U.S. chemical maker, sold $2
billion of five-, 10- and 30-year debt in its first corporate
bond offering since November, Bloomberg data show. The coupon on
DuPont’s 1.95 percent notes due in January 2016 is the
Wilmington, Delaware-based company’s lowest on record for a
benchmark issue.  The sale follows the busiest week for corporate bond
issuance in more than eight months, with offerings reaching
$44.2 billion. Companies raised $86.2 billion of debt in the
two-week period ended Sept. 17, the most since they issued $90.1
billion over a similar span in May 2008, Bloomberg data show.  Bonds from GE, the world’s largest maker of jet engines,
saw 119 trades of $1 million or more, the data show. GE’s $2
billion of 4.375 percent notes due in September 2020 rose 0.3
cent to 99.376 cents on the dollar yesterday, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Ally Financial  Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE is marketing $726 million
of bonds backed by equipment loans, according to a person
familiar with the transaction.  Ally Financial Inc. , the Detroit-based lender formerly
known as GMAC Inc., was most active in high-yield bonds with 57
trades. Ally’s GMAC Mortgage Unit told brokers and agents to
halt evictions tied to foreclosures on homeowners in 23 states
including Florida, Connecticut and New York.  High-yield or speculative-grade debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by S&P.  The cost of credit-default swaps insuring European
sovereign and corporate bonds declined after new issues from
three of the region’s most indebted nations.  Contracts on Ireland dropped to 440, from yesterday’s
record-high closing price of 445, while Spain fell 3 basis
points to 233 and Greece was down 11 basis points at 831,
according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 mostly junk-rated European companies, which investors use
to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, rose 1 basis point to 512, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index increased 1.1 basis point to a mid-price
of 107.7 basis points as of 11:54 a.m. in New York, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Ireland Auction  Ireland sold the maximum 1.5 billion euros it was seeking
in an auction of bonds due 2014 and 2018 today, according to the
National Treasury Management Agency in Dublin. Spain sold 7
billion euros of 12- and 18-month bills, also the maximum
target, while Greece issued 390 million euros of 13-week
Treasury bills, more than the 300 million euros initially
sought.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
defaults in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent. A basis point equals $1,000 a year on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt for five years.  In emerging markets, spreads over government debentures
fell 5 basis points to 270 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. index data.  Loan Returns  European leveraged loan returns, excluding re-invested
interest, are the highest this quarter since a 5.2 percent gain
in the last three months of 2009 and follow a 2.5 percent loss
from April through June, according to the S&P LCD European Flow
Name Composite index.  U.S. loan prices rose 1.9 percent this quarter after
falling 3.7 percent in the preceding quarter, the S&P/LSTA U.S.
Leveraged Loan 100 Index shows. Prices reached 90.06 cents on
the dollar, the highest since May 19, according to the index.  Loan funds attracted a record $3.9 billion of new money
this year, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based data
provider EPFR Global. Assets under management grew 70 percent,
the biggest jump in at least three years, with loan-dedicated
investors overseeing $25 billion of assets compared with $15
billion at the end of 2009.  European private-equity firms obtained $13.6 billion in
loans to fund buyouts in the region this year, almost double the
$6.9 billion raised in all of 2009, Bloomberg data show. The
average loan size rose to $438 million from $347 million. A
total $36.4 billion of European buyouts have been announced so
far in 2010, more than three times the amount in the same period
last year.  ‘A Long Shot’  “Increased participation by institutional investors will
help bring more LBO deals for north of 1 billion euros, which
would’ve been a long shot 12 months ago,” said  Jean-Philippe Levilain , head of leveraged finance at Axa Investment Managers
in Paris, which oversees 4.5 billion euros of loans.  Europe is catching up with the U.S., where funds account
for 86 percent of investment in leveraged loans, little changed
from 80 percent in 2007, according to the Loan Syndications and
Trading Association in New York.  BlackRock Inc. , the world’s
largest asset manager, and Blackstone Group LP’s GSO Capital
Partners LP formed mutual funds to invest in loans this year.  “Loan funds are being set up in a fast and furious manner
in Europe, following a trend in the U.S.,” said  Edward Eyerman ,
head of leveraged finance at Fitch Ratings in London.  Advent International Corp., a Boston-based firm that’s
raised more than $26 billion in cumulative  capital , and Bain
Capital LLC, started in 1984 by former U.S. presidential
candidate and Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , are marketing
$2 billion of debt for the WorldPay acquisition.  RBS Unit  The financing for the former credit card processing unit of
Edinburgh-based  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  was amended to
incorporate a new portion in euros targeted at institutional
investors, Bloomberg data show.  CVC Capital Partners Ltd. is marketing a 785 million-euro
financing to back its buyout of vending machine firm Autobar
Group Ltd. that will include 465 million euros of loans targeted
at fund managers, the data show. The institutional loan accounts
for about 60 percent of the transaction.  A deal to finance Belgian diaper-maker Ontex NV’s buyout
was 73 percent funded by non-bank lenders, according to
Bloomberg data. TPG Capital and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which
acquired Ontex July 15, used 475 million euros of loans aimed at
institutions.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision on Sept. 12 made
it more expensive for banks to lend to riskier borrowers by
raising the cost of the capital they’re required to set aside
against the loans. The new rules follow regulations known as
Basel II, which are being adopted now and require lenders to
allocate more capital against higher-risk loans.  “The effect of the Basel II rules very much depends on the
quality of the borrower,” said  Olivia Frieser , an analyst in
London at BNP Paribas SA, France’s largest bank. “Capital
charges actually fall for loans to investment-grade companies,”
while “smaller, weaker companies are very likely to have been
hurt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  