-- General Motors's Opel to Invest $656 Million to Expand Hungarian Plant
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-09-21T10:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/general-motors-s-opel-to-invest-656-million-to-expand-hungarian-plant.html
General Motors Co. ’s Adam Opel unit
will invest 500 million euros ($657 million) to start production
of three new engine series in its Hungarian plant, the company
said today.  The enlarged factory, located in the western town of
Szentgotthard, will have an annual capacity of 500,000 engines,
Opel said in a statement distributed to reporters in Budapest
today. The engines will have low fuel consumption and low
carbon-emission levels.  Production will start at the end of 2012 and the company
will hire 800 additional workers, according to the statement.  Opel’s reasons for putting the investment into Hungary
include “the level of education, the economic framework and the
fact that Szentgotthard is located in an appropriate region of
the European Union,” thus qualifying the plant for investment
subsidy,  Reinald Hoben , Opel’s manufacturing chief, said at a
press conference in Budapest.  Hungary was the first European Union member-country to get
an  International Monetary Fund  bailout in 2008 and went through
its worst recession since 1991 last year. The country is
counting on resurgent demand in the euro region, which buys 60
percent of products made or assembled there to boost growth.
These include Audi cars, Opel engines and Nokia Oyj phones.  The government will decide by mid-October on the level of
subsidy it will offer Opel, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said at
the press conference. Only investments that “will return state
aid in four years at the level of the national economy” will be
supported, Orban said.  Production at the expanded plant will be “highly
flexible” and will include both diesel and gasoline engines,
Opel said.  The engines will be exported by rail to Opel/Vauxhall
plants in Germany, Britain, Poland and Spain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  