-- Sanofi Target Genzyme More Attractive to Buyers With Unit Sales
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2010-09-21T20:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/genzyme-has-six-bidders-for-drug-ingredients-unit-wyzga-tells-investors.html
Genzyme Corp. , a takeover target of
 Sanofi-Aventis SA , expects to complete sales of its diagnostics
and pharmaceutical-ingredients units by the end of the year.  Genzyme has six bidders for the drug business, Chief
Financial Officer  Michael Wyzga  said today at an investor
conference. Sale of the units will make Genzyme more appealing
to potential buyers, said  Michael Yee , with RBC Capital Markets.  Genzyme, the world’s largest maker of medicines for rare
genetic diseases, rejected Paris-based Sanofi’s $69-a-share
buyout offer last month. Genzyme said Sept. 13 that it will sell
its genetics-testing unit to  Laboratory Corp. of America
Holdings  for $925 million in cash. That business was the largest
of three units that don’t produce genetic-disorders drugs which
Genzyme said in May it planned to divest.  The unit sales are “positive for the takeout because it is
improving margins, reducing costs and it should be accretive to
earnings,” Yee, an analyst based in San Francisco, said today
in a telephone interview. “Over the next three to six months,
they could get taken out at $75 to $80.”  Genzyme spokesman  Bo Piela  declined to comment on the offer
amounts for the units or to identify the bidders.  Genzyme declined 6 cents to $70.69 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The  shares  gained 30
percent since July 22, the last day of trading before Sanofi’s
buyout interest was made public.  LabCorp paid a premium of 2.5 times revenue for Genzyme’s
genetic-testing business, Yee said. The diagnostics unit could
get a similar premium and be sold for as much as $500 million,
Yee said. The drug ingredients unit, with that premium, might
sell for as much as $100 million, he said.  LabCorp and  Quest Diagnostics  Inc. may be potential buyers
for the diagnostics unit, Yee said. He didn’t name likely
suitors for the other business. Calls placed today to
Burlington, North Carolina-based LabCorp and Quest, of Madison,
New Jersey, weren’t immediately returned.  The diagnostics business has annual revenue of about $167
million, while the drug ingredient unit has sales of about $30
million, Yee said in a Sept. 13 research report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 