-- SAIC May Invest in General Motors' Share Sale, Chairman Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-09-21T03:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/gm-s-ipo-may-offer-chance-for-china-s-saic-motor-to-take-a-stake-hu-says.html

          
          
             SAIC Motor Corp.  said it may invest
in the initial public offering of partner  General Motors Co. ,
cementing ties between the biggest U.S. and Chinese automakers.  
 China’s largest carmaker will consider investing in GM if
“conditions are favorable,” Chairman  Hu Maoyuan  said in
Shanghai yesterday. The company hasn’t yet made a decision
whether to make the investment and is waiting for the details of
the share sale, he said yesterday.  
 The automakers, which have made cars together in China for
more than a decade, said in December they would also sell low-
cost vehicles in India. GM filed for an IPO in August as the U.S.
government seeks to pare the 61 percent stake it gained in the
company through its bankruptcy and $50 billion taxpayer bailout
last year.  
 “GM is our important strategic partner,” Hu said. “We
are not clear about the details of its IPO. We will make the
right decision once we know details.”  
 SAIC’s Shanghai-listed  shares  rose as much as 3.4 percent
today to 17.52 yuan and changed hands for 17.41 yuan as of 10:51
a.m. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.1 percent.  
 The joint venture partners are developing a new engine and
transmission system together, have launched a new car brand
Baojun in the Chinese market, and have formed an alliance to
sell low-cost cars in India.  
 ‘Perfect Sense’  
 “Politics and government relationship aside, it makes perfect
sense,” said Bill Russo, Beijing-based senior adviser at Booz & Co.
“Why can’t there be a China-America alliance? Fear of China is the
only reason.”  
 GM’s initial public offering will be open to overseas
investors, the U.S. Treasury said in a statement on its  website .
Retail and institutional investors will be offered shares, and
the Treasury “will not involve itself in decisions regarding
allocation of shares to specific buyers,” the department said.  
 GM “cannot comment on speculation surrounding a public
offering,” Shanghai-based spokesman Mike Albano said in an e-mailed
statement on Sept. 18.  
 China Ventures  
 The Detroit-based automaker, whose partners in China also
include Wuling Motors Co. and China FAW Group Corp., sold 1.2
million vehicles in the nation during the six months ended June
30, according to a company filing related to the IPO.  
 Combined income from the joint ventures with SAIC and
Wuling rose to $734 million in the first six months of the year
from $298 million a year earlier.  
 “It’s not a bad idea for GM and SAIC to further their ties
if it means getting GM better ingrained in the Chinese market,”
 Aaron Bragman , an analyst with IHS Automotive in Northville,
Michigan, said in a telephone interview. “That’s where the
money is going to be made for the industry.”  
 China’s wholesale deliveries of passenger cars increased
18.7 percent to 1.02 million units in August, compared with 13.6
percent growth in July, the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said in an e-mailed statement on Sept. 9.  
 Sales in markets such as China and India are helping offset
slumping demand in the U.S. and Europe. China, which overtook
the U.S. as the world’s largest auto market last year, may sell
16 million vehicles this year, the association said last month,
boosting its forecast from a previous estimate of 15 million.  
 ‘In Great Shape’  
 GM, whose sales in China rose 19.2 percent from a year
earlier to 181,625 vehicles last month, is counting on emerging
markets including China to bolster profit as it prepares for
what may be the second-largest initial public offering in U.S.
history.  
 The carmaker is “in great shape” to hold an offering,
United Auto Workers President  Bob King  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  
 “It will actually help them sell more product when they’ve
done the IPO,” King said. “I think the American public will
see that they’re a strong and healthy company.”  
 GM, China’s largest foreign carmaker, makes vehicles
including Buick Excelle and Regal cars as well as Chevrolet Lova
compacts with its Chinese joint-venture partner SAIC Motor Co.
It also makes Sunshine minivans at SAIC-GM-Wuling Automotive Co.,
a venture with SAIC in which it owns 34 percent.  
 The two partners plan to introduce the Chevrolet Volt in
China next year, the U.S. carmaker said in a statement on July
27, as part of a plan to sell “several” hybrid and electric
vehicles in the coming months.  
 In December, GM and SAIC signed an agreement to invest $650
million to form an equally-controlled venture to sell cars in India.
The American automaker plans to spend $250 million in introducing
five SAIC models in Asia’s second most populous nation, Karl Slym,
president of GM’s Indian unit said in July.  
 -- Liza Lin ,  Helen Yuan  in Shanghai and  Suzanne O’Halloran 
in New York. Editors: Kevin Orland, Kae Inoue  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net .
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       SAIC May Invest in General Motors’ Share Sale, Chairman Says  
                       
                         
                           Qilai Shen/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Hu Maoyuan, chairman of Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp. (SAIC). 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Hu Maoyuan, chairman of Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp. (SAIC). Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 20 (Bloomberg) -- Bob King, president of the United Auto Workers union, talks about the prospects for General Motors Co.'s initial public offering.
     King, speaking with Suzanne O'Halloran on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack," also discusses the government bailout of U.S. automakers and outlook for contract negotiations. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
