-- Goldman Shareholder Lagged CDs as Blankfein Earned $125 Million
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/goldman-shareholder-a-loser-to-cd-rates-when-blankfein-earned-125-million.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  is one
of the best-performing financial shares in the past decade
and it beat the S&P 500 Stock Index, helping to explain  Lloyd C. Blankfein ’s $125 million in cash bonuses during the period.  Some investments did even better. One-year certificates of
deposit earned an average  rate  of 3.17 percent in the last 10
years, beating the 2.78 percent annual total return on Goldman
Sachs. Buying a 10-year Treasury note in mid-September 2000
would have yielded 5.8 percent annually.  Wall Street firms have defended the pay of chief executive
officers, including Blankfein, by pointing to the value they
generate for shareholders. Yet over the last decade, the  S&P 500
Financials Index , which includes 80 members, has dropped 49
percent.  Bank of America Corp. ,  Citigroup Inc.  and Morgan
Stanley have lost money for shareholders, while  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  returned an annual 1.23 percent, Bloomberg data show.  “Some of the financial stocks were of course total
catastrophes,” such as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Bear
Stearns Cos. and Citigroup, all examples of a “financial sector
innovating itself into obscurity,” said  John C. Bogle , the 81-
year-old founder of the Vanguard Group of mutual funds.  Shareholders in Goldman Sachs, as well as most financial-
industry stocks, would have fared better investing in other
sectors of the economy. The  S&P 500 Oil & Gas Exploration &
Production Index , which tracks 13 companies, has returned an
annual 11.3 percent over the decade, while the eight-member  S&P
500 Industrial Machinery Index  has produced annual total returns
of 8.9 percent over the period, according to Bloomberg data.  Flowserve, CSX  Among individual stocks,  Flowserve Corp. , the Irving,
Texas-based maker of pumps and valves, has rewarded shareholders
with an annual return of almost 20 percent, while Jacksonville,
Florida-based  CSX Corp. , the third-largest U.S. railroad by 2009
revenue, has returned 18.6 percent a year over the decade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The innovation in the productive part of our economy adds
value to our society,” Bogle said. “The financial sector, by
definition, subtracts value.”  David Wells , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in New York,
declined to comment.  Wall Street executives and employees have been the biggest
beneficiaries of the industry’s growth, typically taking home
more than 40 percent of their firms’ revenue in any given year.
Employees of Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley , two New York-
based securities firms that converted to banks in 2008, have
received a total of $228 billion in compensation over the last
decade. That’s more than five times the $45 billion operating
budget of the  National Cancer Institute  over the same period.  Blankfein’s Bonus  “The low returns that the industry has given to
stockholders certainly is not a great scorecard for
managements,” said  Brad Hintz , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York. “As a portfolio manager you could
make an argument that lower risk is better than higher risk
given the performance that we’ve seen.”  Financial companies slashed bonuses during the financial
crisis and have tied a larger portion of pay to long-term stock
returns. Blankfein, 56, whose cash bonuses over the last decade
were less than half the $300 million worth of stock he owns,
received no bonus for 2008 and got a $9 million all-stock bonus
for 2009.  Wall Street firms may have to reduce compensation, their
largest expense, and raise dividends in order to reward
shareholders in the future, said Bernstein’s Hintz.  Buffett’s Dividend  “I think it comes about both by institutional pressure,
but also internal pressure,” said Hintz, who worked as a
treasurer at Morgan Stanley and chief financial officer of
Lehman Brothers before joining Bernstein in 2001. “If you’re an
employee, and you’re being paid in a lot of stock and that stock
is going to be locked away in a trust for five years, one way to
reduce your risk is higher dividends.”  One investor who guaranteed himself a higher dividend was
 Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman and CEO of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. , who has produced an 8 percent annual return for
shareholders over the last decade. When Buffett, 80, injected
money into Goldman Sachs at the height of the financial crisis
in 2008, he steered clear of the common stock and instead
purchased a special class of preferred shares that pay him a 10
percent annual dividend.  Total Return  The total return on Goldman Sachs shares was calculated
using the closing prices on Sept. 15, 2000, and Sept. 17, 2010,
and includes reinvesting gross dividends over the period. CD
rates are derived from the Bankrate.com national rates on 1-year
CDs over the same time frame. The 10-year Treasury rate is the
market yield on 10-year notes on Sept. 15, 2000.  The total return calculation doesn’t take into account the
different tax rates on equity and fixed-income investments.  To be sure, financial stocks can seem more attractive using
different time periods. Goldman Sachs shares have  returned  an
annual 7.3 percent since May 1999, the month the shares were
first sold to the public. Investors who held  Citigroup  shares
for the five years that began on June 7, 2002, would have gained
10.6 percent a year, Bloomberg data show.  Goldman Sachs shares climbed 20.9 percent between Sept. 15,
2000, when they closed at $124.875 apiece in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, and Sept. 17 of this year, when they
ended the session at $150.98 apiece. The  stock  closed at $151.90
yesterday, up 0.6 percent.  Bogle, the Vanguard founder, said the financial industry
became too large as a percentage of the overall S&P 500. The
financial index, which was 14 percent of the S&P 500 a decade
ago, jumped to 20 percent in 2007 and has since dropped back to
16 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Florescence of Finance’  “Overall they went up too high, and then they went way
down, and where they go from here nobody knows,” said Bogle,
whose 2008 book “Enough: True Measures of Money, Business, and
Life” decried what he sees as the excesses of the financial
industry. The sector “became dominant, and there was just no
way that could continue because sooner or later people would
wake up -- and they did.”  The expansion of the financial industry and its rising pay
levels attracted criticism at a conference in Calgary earlier
this month, where former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul A. Volcker  said “this great florescence of finance, zillions of
dollars being made on Wall Street” was of dubious benefit to
society at large.  “The economy grew no faster in the first decade of this
century than it had grown in the past,” Volcker, 83, said. “In
fact, the tendency was to grow a little more slowly, and it all
ended up with a big financial crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 