-- Google Says Brazilian Officials Make Most Demands to Pull Content From Web
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-09-21T07:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/google-says-brazil-libya-make-most-government-demands-to-pull-web-content.html
Google Inc.  was asked by Brazilian
officials to remove content from the Web 398 times in the first
half of the year, the most by a government, according to a
 report  published today by the Internet-search company.  Brazil’s requests were more than double the total from
Libya, which came in second with 149. The U.S. and Germany
followed with 128 and 124 requests, respectively, Google said in
its second report on government transparency, which lists 35
countries that make such demands.  Google, owner of the world’s largest search engine, aims to
share information about its dealings with foreign governments in
order to promote free expression and competition in emerging
Internet markets. Mountain View, California-based  Google  closed
its search engine in China earlier this year after clashing with
the country over censorship. Users in China are now redirected
to its Hong Kong site.  “We care about this because we care about free expression
as a value,” Niki Fenwick, a spokeswoman for Google, said in an
interview. “We also care about it because it’s core to our
business. When our services are blocked or filtered, we can’t
serve our users.”  In addition to ranking the number of government requests to
remove content and plotting them on an interactive map, Google
today opened access to a new tool that graphs the traffic of Web
users in individual countries. If traffic drops off, Google
plans to add notes to the site explaining whether the
interruption is the result of government blocking or from a
technical glitch, Fenwick said.  Brazil Requests  Access to Google’s website in China became briefly
unavailable in July, causing some news outlets to speculate
authorities there had completely blocked access to the site. The
service became available again to Chinese users the same day,
and the company said the problem may have been a measurement
error.  Many requests to remove content from Brazil, where Google’s
 Orkut  social-networking service has the most users, are related
to people the government alleges committed crimes of
impersonation or defamation, Google said. Earlier this year, a
Brazilian court ordered the removal of more than 18,000 photos
from Google’s photo site,  Picasa , after a lawsuit claimed they
contained images from copyrighted books, Google said.  Brazil also topped Google’s list of government requests for
the second half of 2009, issued in April. So-called takedown
requests in the country rose 37 percent in the first half of
2010 from the previous six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  