-- Gekko Finds His Little Black Heart in New Stone Film: Interview
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2010-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/gordon-gekko-finds-his-little-black-heart-in-stone-s-new-film-interview.html
“One difference I feel now as a
stockbroker’s son is that when I wake up in the morning I don’t
know what’s going to happen,” says director  Oliver Stone .  “There’s a sense of volatility and uncertainty that’s
deeper than it’s ever been for me in my life.”  The recent financial crisis provides the background to
“Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps,” the sequel to his 1987 film
about the business of getting rich.  Stone and I spoke at Bloomberg’s New York world
headquarters.  Lundborg: Is speculation the mother of all evil, as your
film states?  Stone: That was a line given to me by  Olaf Rogge , a
brilliant hedge funder in London, who read the script for me.  He was nailing the banks, and at that point in time he said
their speculation fever was destroying the world.  Lundborg: Many of your films mix fact and fiction. How does
that work in “Money Never Sleeps?”  Rich Rubin  Stone: It’s not a documentary, but the crash happened in
that time period. We tracked it. It allows Gekko to get back in
at a very low price and I made sure my capital accumulations in
the film are correct.  Lundborg: Are  Michael Douglas  as Gekko and the  Josh Brolin 
character, Bretton James, different?  Stone: Of course not, though Bretton James is based a bit
on  Robert Rubin , who’s really enriched himself. I think he’s the
richest ex-Secretary of the Treasury ever.  There’s also a bit of  Jamie Dimon  in him. And if  Lloyd Blankfein  were handsomer, you could say he’s Josh Brolin.  Lundborg: Blankfein! He’s doing “God’s work.”  Stone: He’s a missionary!  Lundborg: What’s changed between “Wall Street” one and
two, beyond the number of zeroes?  Stone: In the first one, the kid played by  Charlie Sheen 
did not have a sense of moral integrity. He sold out his father,
and the labor union, for his own profit and for Gekko’s profit.  Gekko was more of a one-note character in the sense that he
was ruthless, but shallow.  Money, Power  Lundborg: You’ve made him more complex?  Stone: In this film, Gekko has a heart. He’s torn between
truly wanting his daughter and a sense of family back in his old
age -- and his desire for money and power.  Lundborg: A lot of people, including Gekko, say it’s not
about the money, but the game. Do you believe that?  Stone: At the higher levels, yes. In this arena, money is
fungible. Ego and envy are often involved, as well as greed.  Lundborg: One of the older guys says the game is no fun
anymore. Is it still fun for the young Turks?  Stone: I talked to a lot of young kids about  Shia LaBeouf ’s
age and they said it was shocking. They’d just gotten out of
business school, and three years later they’re sitting in the
middle of the biggest crash in our history.  For them, it was like a wake-up call, like a baptism by
fire in Vietnam. And they could see that older captains of
industry had no idea what to do.  Lundborg: Were you surprised when after the first film
Gordon Gekko took on iconic significance?  ‘Executive Suite’  Stone: I was. But remember, there had been no good business
movies since the fifties. There was “Executive Suite” with
William Holden, Barbara Stanwyck and Fredric March -- I love
that movie!  My father used to say they didn’t make movies about people
who work.  Lundborg: So what inspired you to take it on?  Stone: I was coming off “Platoon” and I could pretty much
do what I wanted, so I said I want to make a business movie.  People told me it’s not a moneymaker to talk about money
because there’s no action, you don’t kill people. What kind of
suspense is there in a deal?  Lundborg: That’s certainly changed.  Stone: This movie was even more difficult because it’s more
complicated now.  I had scenes with an  AIG  character because we tried to deal
with the credit swap insurance business. We tried to do the link
between Josh Brolin and AIG, but it was a wrinkle too much.  Lundborg: “Greed is good” came out of your first film.
What will the mantra be from this one?  Stone: That was just a throwaway line. I don’t know:
“Greed is now legal?” or maybe “More!” That’s Josh Brolin’s
answer to the question “How much money do you need?”  There’s also, “Money is a bitch that never sleeps.”  Lundborg: Why is money female?  Stone: Gekko is saying to the kid, either you have a woman
and a love life, or you have money. If you’re going to be with
my daughter and be a good guy, forget about making money.  Lundborg: Is “Wall St. 2” that rarity -- a cynical film
with a happy ending?  Stone: The ending is nuanced, real-to-life, I think, but I
see it with whimsy.  How can you mourn over Wall Street?  “Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps” opens nationwide on
Friday, Sept. 24.  ( Zinta Lundborg  is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 