-- IBM Chief Says Consumers Aren't Sold on `Smart Grid'
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2010-09-21T20:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/ibm-s-palmisano-says-consumers-yet-to-be-sold-on-smart-grid-advantages.html
Samuel Palmisano , chief executive
officer of  International Business Machines Corp. , said improving
the U.S. electric-transmission grid depends on providing better
information to consumers.  Companies shouldn’t wait for government to set standards
for data and technologies to create a “smart grid,” which lets
consumers monitor their energy use and take conservation steps
that can save energy and money, Palmisano said today at the
 Gridwise Global Forum  in Washington.  “There is an incredible buy-in for change” in the U.S.,
and backers of new energy technology should tap into the
sentiment, he said in a speech opening the conference.  A smart electric grid is part of a push by companies and
regulators to make the nation’s energy system more efficient,
eliminating a need to build new generation sources that would
raise electricity prices and add to greenhouse-gas emissions.  Michael Morris , CEO of  American Electric Power Co . of
Columbus, Ohio, said during a panel discussion with Palmisano
and  Anders Eldrup , CEO of Dong Energy A/S, Denmark’s largest
utility, that consumers don’t think about how they use energy,
and don’t particularly want to.  “We need to get the voters, the taxpayers, interested in
these issues,” with smart-meter systems that are simple to use,
Morris said.  Consumers in California complained that smart meters in a
demonstration project weren’t providing accurate data on their
energy use. An independent review found an increase in power
bills was due to a heat wave at about the time the meters were
installed.  Consumers See Advantages  “In order to make it work we need consumers to see the
advantage of it,” Eldrup said.  Investments in a smart grid may create jobs and help
revitalize the U.S. economy, executives said. Denmark invested
in wind turbines after oil prices soared in the 1970s and is now
a leader in the industry, Eldrup said during the discussion.  “The ones who move first will develop the industries of
tomorrow,” he said.  Costs remain a hurdle to gaining consumer acceptance of
technologies such as smart-grid meters or electric cars, said
 Jon Wellinghoff , the chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission that regulates U.S. wholesale power markets.  “Customers need to see the value,” Wellinghoff said
during a luncheon speech. “We’ve been talking about energy
efficiency for a long time, we need to enable it” by lowering
costs to consumers, he said.  Expanding Grid  Nancy Sutley , head of the White House Council on
Environmental Quality, said expanding energy infrastructure such
as building power plants or transmission lines is difficult.  Technology can help the U.S. make “better use of what we
have,” Sutley said.  The U.S. is among nations upgrading their electric
transmission grids, said  Michael Liebreich , CEO of Bloomberg New
Energy Finance, owned by Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg
News.  “This is something that’s happening around the world,”
driven by stimulus funding from governments seeking to revive
struggling economies, said Liebreich, who led a panel on global
demand for electricity and a smart grid system.  While countries have spent billions of dollars in recent
years, smart meters have yet to penetrate the market in a
significant way, he said.  “There is an enormous amount of money and an enormous
amount of hope but quite a lot of uncertainty about the
benefits,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Larry Liebert  at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 