-- Michael Vick Made Starting Quarterback for Philadelphia Eagles Over Kolb
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-09-22T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/michael-vick-is-named-as-starting-quarterback-for-the-philadelphia-eagles.html
Michael Vick ’s “exceptional
play” earned him the starting quarterback position for the
Philadelphia Eagles, coach  Andy Reid  said one day after
telling  Kevin Kolb  that he had the job.  Reid said two days ago that Kolb would return to his
role as starter even after Vick led the Eagles to a Week 2
victory while Kolb was recovering from a concussion.  Reid said during a news conference yesterday that his
decision is based on Vick’s performance and not Kolb’s
health.  “When you have someone playing at the level that
Michael Vick is playing, then he deserves the opportunity
to continue doing that,” Reid said.  The National Football League’s Eagles, who have a 1-1
record, visit the Jacksonville Jaguars on Sept. 26.  Reid said while Kolb, 26, stated his desire to be the
starting quarterback, he accepted the team’s decision to
give the job to the 30-year-old Vick.  “He’s just in the situation where he’s got an ex-
super star who’s regained his abilities,” Reid said. Vick
“is just playing out of his mind right now.”  Vick’s start last week in a 35-32 win against Detroit
was his first at quarterback in four years.  Vick, who spent 18 months in prison for his role in an
interstate dog-fighting ring, had a limited role with the
Eagles last year after missing two NFL seasons.  When the Eagles traded  Donovan McNabb  to the
Washington Redskins during the offseason, Kolb took over as
the starter.  Green Bay Injury  A second-round pick in 2007, Kolb was knocked out of
the Eagles’ season-opening loss to Green Bay after
suffering a second-quarter concussion.  Kolb was replaced by Vick, who led the team to 17
second-half points in the 27-20 defeat. The first overall
pick in the 2001 draft, Vick passed for 175 yards and a
touchdown, and also rushed for a team-high 103 yards on 11
carries.  Against Detroit three days ago, Vick passed for 284
yards and two touchdowns.  “He and Kevin are close, so his first concern was
about Kevin,” Reid said about Vick’s reaction to being
named the starter. “On the other hand, he relishes this
opportunity.”  Reid said Kolb won’t be traded and that the switch
would help his maturation.  “This allows him to continue to learn and he’ll do
that,” Reid said. “This comes back to Michael Vick’s
play. You’re looking at a quarterback with a rating fourth
highest in the NFL. He’s playing exceptional football.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  