-- Microsoft Raises Dividend, May Borrow Up to $6 Billion More
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2010-09-21T23:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/microsoft-raises-quarterly-dividend-23-to-16-cents-a-share.html
Microsoft Corp.  raised its
quarterly dividend by 3 cents, or 23 percent, to 16 cents a
share and got approval from its board to sell as much as $6
billion in additional debt.  “This higher dividend, combined with our ongoing share
repurchase program, reflects our commitment to returning capital
to our shareholders and our confidence in the long-term growth
of the company,” Microsoft Chief Financial Officer  Peter Klein 
said in a statement.  Microsoft Corp.  is planning to sell debt this year to pay
for  dividends  and share repurchases because too much of its cash
is held overseas, a person familiar with the matter said last
week. The company will try to raise as much as possible without
jeopardizing its debt  rating  of AAA, the highest available, said
the person, who declined to be named because the plans are
confidential and not completed.  Bloomberg data had predicted the company would increase its
quarterly dividend by 2 cents a share, while  Heather Bellini , an
analyst at ISI Group, predicted an increase of 4 cents in a note
to clients this month.  Microsoft fell 28 cents to $25.15 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have dropped 17
percent this year.  A quarterly dividend of 16 cents would yield 2.5 percent.  Investor Pressure  Issuing as much as $6 billion probably wouldn’t put the
rating at risk, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg . The
company, based in Redmond, Washington, has been under investor
pressure to return more cash to shareholders amid declines in
the company’s stock price this year.  Microsoft said today that in the ten years through June 30,
it had returned almost $170 billion to shareholders through
dividends and share repurchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  