-- High-Speed Fiber, OCC to Clear S&P Options, German Bank Levies: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2010-09-21T12:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/high-speed-fiber-occ-to-clear-s-p-options-etfs-compliance.html
European telecommunications
operators such as  France Telecom SA  and  Deutsche Telekom AG  will
be able to make “attractive profits” under proposed rules for
third-party access to their high-speed fiber networks, the
European Commission said.  Rules on pricing for access to these large operators’
networks “will fully reflect investment risk,” the commission
said in a  statement  yesterday containing its proposals. Those
operators nonetheless won’t have a “regulatory holiday” in
exchange for investing in fiber, the commission said.  The EC’s proposals are designed to encourage competition
and reduce a gap with provision in Asian countries such as Japan
and South Korea, according to the commission.  If the proposals are adopted by the 27-member European
Union, the rules “should force dominant operators to open up
their fiber networks to competition,” the  European Competitive
Telecoms Association  said in a statement.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  OCC to Clear S&P 500 Options Traded Over the Counter  The Options Clearing Corp. plans to begin processing over-
the-counter equity derivatives based on the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  beginning in the middle of 2011, reducing trading
firms’ risks on the securities linked to the benchmark measure
of U.S. stocks.  Dealers will be able to clear the contracts on the S&P 500,
S&P MidCap 400 Index and S&P SmallCap 600 Index through Chicago-
based OCC, which handles all exchange-listed U.S. equity
options, Mike McClain,  OCC’s  executive vice president of
business development and operations, said in an interview
yesterday. Regulatory approval from the Securities and Exchange
Commission is pending.  The move will bring a segment of the over-the-counter
options business into the clearing system for the first time,
reducing the financial risk trading parties face if the other
side defaults, and potentially lowering costs for firms that
transact a large number of contracts at a time.  The OCC plans to use its existing guarantee fund to cover
defaults in over-the-counter trades. It will likely  charge  a
similar amount for OTC trades as for listed or exchange-traded
contracts, the OCC said.  For more, click here.  U.S., U.K. Finance Regulators to Increase Cooperation on Probes  U.S. and U.K. financial regulators signed an agreement to
increase cooperation and collaborate on investigations.  The U.S. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the
largest independent regulator for securities firms in the
country, and the U.K. Financial Services Authority signed a
 memorandum of understanding , the FSA said in a statement
yesterday.  The agreement will enable the two agencies to “share
information more freely and expeditiously” in support of
investigations, FINRA Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Richard Ketchum said in the statement.  The U.K. government plans to abolish the FSA by 2012 to
create a Prudential Regulatory Authority at the Bank of England
and an independent consumer protection and markets agency. Part
of the FSA’s enforcement powers may be transferred to a new
economic crime agency, the coalition government has said.  The FSA and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
said last year that would explore common approaches to
regulatory requirements for “market participants.”  German Banks May Pay 70% of Earnings for Levies, Group Says  German lenders  may be forced to forfeit as much as 70
percent of their profits for the financial transaction tax, a
bank levy and deposit guarantee funds as well as normal taxes,
the  Association of German Banks  said.  The proposed financial transaction tax may cost lenders
about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion), the bank levy 900 million
euros and higher fees for national deposit guarantee funds 1.2
billion euros, the group said at a press conference in Frankfurt
yesterday. German banks had average earnings of 7.6 billion
euros from 1998 to 2008, which were taxed about 30 percent. The
additional measures could raise that ratio to 70 percent,
according to the banking association.  The potential additional costs of 3.1 billion euros may
make it more difficult for German banks to raise capital levels
with retained earnings to meet new regulatory requirements from
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . Regulators from 27
nations on Sept. 12 said they more than doubled banks’ minimum
capital ratios and gave lenders as much as eight years to comply
in full.  For more, click here.  Murdoch’s Sky Urges Greater Competition in Italian Media Market  The head of  News Corp. ’s Italian unit, Sky Italia Srl,
called for more competition in the country’s media market,
saying it’s dominated by Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s
 Mediaset SpA . Sky Italia Chief Executive Officer Tom Mockridge
made comments in a letter to Corriere della Sera newspaper
published yesterday.  Mediaset, Italy’s largest private television broadcaster,
competes with Rupert Murdoch’s Sky Italia. Mockridge’s letter
underscores the tension as the companies compete for greater
shares of the advertising market.  While Mediaset dominates the free-to-air television market,
Sky is the top pay-TV provider.  Mockridge “cites Mediaset’s advertising revenue without
revealing his own company’s monopoly of the satellite platform,
where it collects almost 90 percent of pay-TV revenue,”
Mediaset Chairman Fedele Confalonieri said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. Sky Italia has said that it faces
restrictions in entering Italy’s new digital-terrestrial TV
market.  The European Commission  said July 20 that Sky Italia can
bid for frequencies to enter the free-to-air digital market.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. and its Dow Jones unit in providing financial news
and data.  Morningstar May Drop Star Ratings for Leveraged, Inverse ETFs  Morningstar Inc. , a Chicago-based research firm, may stop
rating leveraged and inverse exchange-traded funds on a scale of
one to five stars because of concerns about their suitability
for individual investors.  The company is considering removing the ETFs from broader
fund categories and putting them in a separate group, Scott
Burns, Morningstar’s director of ETF research, said in a
telephone interview. The change would also end the funds’ star
ratings, he said.  Leveraged ETFs use derivatives and debt to amplify the
returns of a market index, while inverse funds profit from
declines in an underlying benchmark. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission in March stopped approving new ETFs that
make significant use of derivatives, in part to review whether
individual investors required additional protections.  Unlike mutual funds, ETFs trade on an exchange all day like
stocks. The SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
told investors in August 2009 to be wary of leveraged and
inverse ETFs because returns can deviate from underlying indexes
when held for longer than a day.  Most Hedge Funds Should Escape New Swaps Regulation, ISDA Says  Most hedge funds and money managers shouldn’t fall under
new derivatives rules being written by U.S. regulators,
according to the  International Swaps and Derivatives
Association , a trade and lobbying group.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission are responsible for writing
the new rules governing  $615 trillion  in over-the-counter
derivatives. They should find hedge funds and money managers
don’t meet the criteria of a firm that “maintains a substantial
position in swaps,” using leverage that creates “substantial
counterparty exposure,” ISDA said yesterday. That’s how the new
law defines the so-called major swap participant.  “Very few, if any, investment funds should qualify,” ISDA
said yesterday in a letter to the CFTC and SEC. Most of the
firms aren’t systemically important to the U.S. economy, aren’t
highly levered and don’t have substantial positions in swaps,
the group said.  Congress sought to regulate swaps through the  Dodd-Frank
bill  passed in July after the trades complicated efforts to
solve the financial crisis. In most cases regulators have until
July 2011 to write the new guidelines.  Dodd-Frank exempts certain swaps users, as long as they are
hedging commercial risk, such as a move in wheat prices. ISDA is
seeking to define that exemption for commercial users of swaps
to include financial firms.  ISDA members include the largest swap dealers such as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Deutsche Bank AG  and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  as well as firms such as  China Construction Bank Corp. ,
Citadel LLC, Cargill Inc.,  BP Plc  and OAO Gazprombank, according
to a list posted on the group’s website.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Lime Brokerage to Offer Faster Platform for Options Traders  Lime Brokerage Holdings LLC, whose customers account for up
to five percent of U.S. daily equities volume, will sell an
options trading system for high-frequency firms that want to
transact more contracts faster, said Jeff Wecker, Chief
Executive Officer of the New York-based company.  The platform allows hedge funds, professional traders and
clients whose strategies depend on speed to receive quotation
and trading data fast and access exchanges quickly. The system
is aimed at electronic options traders and Lime customers that
trade equities actively, said Wecker.  Options volume has increased almost fivefold over the last
decade thanks to electronic trading and computer-generated
strategies. Eight exchanges, up from four in 1999, now compete
for orders by offering different rules, pricing and ways of
matching buyers and sellers. Regulations designed to foster
competition and lower trading costs drove the changes.  For more, click here.  Moody’s to Raise Fees to Offset Rule Costs, Piper Jaffray Says  Moody’s Corp.  plans to raise prices to grade debt by about
5 percent to offset increased regulatory and compliance costs,
according to  Piper Jaffray & Co.   Moody’s will increase fees in the “mid-single-digit
range,” Piper Jaffray’s Peter Appert wrote yesterday in a note
to clients. A 5 percent price increase would raise about $67
million in revenue for Moody’s, the analyst said.  Moody’s expects $10 million to $15 million in increased
regulatory costs after passage of the Dodd-Frank Act in July,
which contains changes to how credit ratings companies can
operate. Standard & Poor’s, a unit of  McGraw Hill Cos. , expects
$16 million in new costs related to the legislation, Appert
said. Both ratings companies are based in New York.  Courts  Environment Groups Sue EU Regulator Over Transparency  Four environmental groups are suing the regulator of the
27-nation European Union for lack of transparency on its
biofuels policy.  The lawsuit was filed yesterday in the European Union’s
General Court in Luxembourg by ClientEarth,  Transport and
Environment , the  European Environmental Bureau  and  BirdLife
International , the groups said in an e-mailed statement.  The suit “challenges the commission’s failure to release
documents containing previously undisclosed information on the
negative climate impacts of widespread biofuels use in the
European Union,” according to the statement.  The EU requires at least 10 percent of energy for road and
rail transport in 2020 to come from renewable sources in every
member country. Biofuels offer the prospect of reducing the use
of fossil fuels blamed for climate change.  Marlene Holzer, a spokeswoman for EU Energy Commissioner
Guenther Oettinger, wasn’t immediately available to comment.  An earlier, ongoing lawsuit by the four groups began March
8 against the EU’s Brussels-based regulator claiming it refused
to release documents revealing the negative consequences of
biofuels production.  For more, click here.  Commerzbank Wins Appeals Case Over Dresdner Bonuses  Commerzbank AG , Germany’s second-biggest bank, won
dismissal of appeals cases filed by 14 former Dresdner Kleinwort
investment bank employees over their bonuses.  The Frankfurt labor appeals court yesterday backed a lower
tribunal which dismissed the suits last year. The employees seek
bonuses for 2008 ranging from about 29,000 euros ($37,987) to
450,000 euros. Commerzbank acquired Dresdner Bank AG last year
and faces similar suits in London.  Commerzbank, which was forced to tap Germany for 18.2
billion euros of capital during the credit crisis, cut
prospective 2008 bonuses for Dresdner employees by as much as 90
percent after the unit posted an operating loss of 6.3 billion
euros that year.  Presiding Judge Georg Schaefer said the lender’s letter
didn’t say that it wanted to promise a specific amount as a
bonus.  Yesterday’s ruling is the first by a German appeals court
over the dispute and Manuel Rhotert, a lawyer for some of the
plaintiffs, said he will appeal the decision, describing it as
“an important legal issue that needs to be clarified by
Germany’s top labor court.”  Commerzbank spokesman Thomas Bonk said the bank welcomed
the ruling “which totally backs our view of the issue.”  The bonus case, together with related labor cases is Hess.
LAG, 7 Sa 2082/09 u.a.  For more, click here.  N.Y. Man Gets Probation in Foreign-Exchange Scheme  A New York man received five years’ probation for
defrauding his customers of more than $66 million they thought
was invested in the foreign-exchange market and instead was
spent on art and an Aston Martin car.  Bradley D. Eisner was sentenced yesterday by U.S. District
Judge Dora Irizarry in Brooklyn, New York. He pleaded guilty in
July 2008 after turning himself in and cooperating with the
government.  Michael R. MacCaull, Eisner’s partner in Great Neck, New
York-based Razor FX, was sentenced in March to 15 years and
eight months. MacCaull, who also pleaded guilty in the Razor FX
case, spent 13 months in prison after pleading guilty in 2001 in
a crackdown on Sterling Foster & Co., a defunct New York boiler-
room firm that manipulated stock prices. He’s in federal prison
in Fort Dix, New Jersey.  Eisner and MacCaull, both 38, pretended to be investing in
the spot foreign exchange market while they retained most
investor funds for their own use, according to prosecutors. The
Ponzi scheme operated from January 2001 to January 2008,
according to prosecutors.  Federal guidelines called for a sentence of between 12
years and seven months and 15 years and eight months.  “Mr. Eisner brought to light a complex scheme that likely
would have gone undetected for quite some time,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Sarah Coyne told Irizzary yesterday. “The government,
of course, does not excuse Mr. Eisner’s criminal conduct.”  At his sentencing, MacCaull blamed Eisner for concocting
and reaping the benefits of their fraud. MacCaull claimed not to
know the extent of the scheme.  Eisner and MacCaull received about $70 million from
investors in 2007 alone, prosecutors said. They must pay back
$66.3 million to the victims.  The case is U.S. v. Eisner, 08-cr-401, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Interviews  High-Frequency Trading, Commodities Targeted by EU  Michel Barnier, the European Union’s financial services
commissioner, said he would have a “very, very close look” at
high-frequency trading in an overhaul of EU market rules.  “Hyper speculation” in commodities markets and dark
pools, which are trading platforms that allow investors to buy
and sell securities away from regulated exchanges, will also be
targeted by EU regulators, the financial services chief said.
Barnier made the remarks at a  speech  in Brussels yesterday.  The review of the EU’s Markets in Financial Instruments
Directive, or Mifid, is part of a wider overhaul of financial
regulation following the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. The  European Commission  proposed laws last week that
would limit naked short selling and some derivative trading.  For more, click here.  EU Farm Chief Urges More Futures Trading Disclosure  European Union  Agriculture Commissioner  Dacian Ciolos urged
more disclosure about which investors hold futures contracts in
agricultural markets and urged position limits to curb price
swings.  “The role of futures markets is not to feed speculation
and the profits of a few actors,” according to an e-mailed copy
of a speech the commissioner was scheduled to give yesterday in
Brussels. Markets “have to be a tool at the service of all the
actors in the food chain.”  EU  Finance Commissioner  Michel Barnier is proposing greater
transparency and position limits for futures as part of a
financial-markets overhaul, Ciolos said. The farm commissioner
said he’ll make further proposals in talks over the 27-nation
bloc’s Common Agricultural Policy, which last year provided 45.7
billion euros ($59.9 billion) in subsidies and expires in 2013.  Citigroup Europe Chief ‘Concerned’ by Rules Arbitrage  Citigroup Inc. ’s chief executive officer for Europe, the
Middle East and Africa said he is “concerned” about regulatory
arbitrage around the world.  William Mills said he wanted to see consistent rules being
adopted globally. He was speaking at the City Week conference in
London yesterday.  Lloyds Chief Daniels Says He Has ‘Unfinished Business’  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  Chief Executive Officer Eric
Daniels talked about his plans to retire within the next 12
months, commenting on “unfinished work” and the HBOS
integration.  Chairman Win Bischoff also spoke on the conference call
with Bloomberg.  For the audio, click here. For more, see Comings and Goings
section, below.  Comings and Goings  Lloyds CEO Eric Daniels to Step Down Within 12 Months  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  Chief Executive Officer Eric
Daniels said he will step down in the next 12 months, the third
top British banking executive to leave in as many weeks.  Lloyds will form a committee headed by Chairman Win
Bischoff to consider internal and external candidates from the
U.K. and overseas to replace him, the London-based lender said
in a statement yesterday. The most likely successors include
Nationwide CEO Graham Beale and HSBC Holdings Plc Chief
Financial Officer, Douglas Flint, according to BGC Partners Inc.  Daniels, 59, led Lloyds’ takeover of HBOS Plc in September
2008, a purchase that forced the lender to seek a 17 billion-
pound ($27 billion) bailout that left the government with a 41
percent stake in the bank. Lloyds is the third of Britain’s four
biggest banks to announce a change in leadership after Barclays
Plc CEO John Varley and HSBC Chairman Stephen Green said they
would step down this month.  For more, click here, and see Interviews section, above.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Main  in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 