-- Hurricane Igor to Lash Newfoundland; Tropical Storm Lisa Forms in Atlantic
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2010-09-21T09:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/igor-to-buffet-newfoundland-as-canada-issues-storm-hurricane-warnings.html
Hurricane Igor was forecast to lash
eastern Newfoundland with strong winds and heavy rain today
while in the eastern Atlantic, Tropical Storm Lisa became the
12th named storm of the year.  A hurricane watch was posted in Newfoundland, where Igor
may produce as much as 10 inches (25 centimeters) of rain, the
U.S. National Hurricane Center said in an  advisory  at 5 a.m.
Ottawa time. The storm was 285 miles (460 kilometers) south-
southwest of Cape Race with 75 mph winds and “rapidly”
approaching the province at 41 mph, the center said.  Canada issued a hurricane watch for Newfoundland from
Stone’s Cove to Fogo island, the center said. Tropical storm
warnings were issued from Burgeo to Triton and for the French-
administered islands of St. Pierre and Miquelon. Igor remains a
Category 1 hurricane, the lowest on the five-step Saffir-Simpson
scale, the advisory said.  “Some strenghthening is forecast and Igor is likely to
become an intense extra-tropical cyclone,” the advisory said.
“The center of the cyclone will move near the southeastern tip
of Newfoundland later today.”  Hurricane-force winds of at least 74 mph reached 85 miles
from its center and tropical-storm-force winds of at least 39
mph extended out about 380 miles. Igor is forecast to skirt
Newfoundland today, remaining at hurricane force as it plows a
course between Greenland and Baffin Island.  In the eastern Atlantic, Tropical Storm Lisa formed today,
the 12th named storm of the June through November season, the
center said in an advisory just before 5 a.m. Miami time. Lisa
was packing winds of 40 mph and was 530 miles west-northwest of
the Cape Verde Islands moving north at 5 mph.  The center is also monitoring a weather system near the
Windward Islands with a 10 percent chance of forming a cyclone
in the next 48 hours. The collection of thunderstorms is moving
west at as much as 15 mph, the center said in another  advisory .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net 
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  