-- IMF Lifts South Africa Growth Forecast to 3.2%, Says Rand is `Overvalued'
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-09-21T16:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/imf-lifts-south-africa-growth-forecast-to-3-2-says-rand-is-overvalued-.html
The International Monetary Fund
raised its 2010 growth forecast for South Africa to 3.2 percent,
and encouraged the government to consider tax breaks for
companies hit by an “overvalued” rand.  The  economy  will probably expand 3.6 percent in 2011 and
3.9 percent in 2012, the Washington-based lender said in a
country report on its website today. The lender had previously
forecast 2.6 percent growth for this year.  Africa’s biggest economy has rebounded from its first
recession in 17 years after  interest rates  were reduced to a 30-
year low and global demand for exports increased. The rand’s 32
percent surge against the dollar since the beginning of 2009 is
undermining that growth, increasing calls from exporters and
labor unions for the government to step up action to curb the
currency’s gains.  South African authorities and IMF staff “saw some merit in
temporary targeted intervention to help the enterprises that are
being most adversely affected by the strength of the rand,” the
IMF said. These include increasing the investment tax allowance
for small- and medium-sized companies and reducing the cost of
hedging against the rand, it said.  The IMF compiled its report after senior staff met in May
with Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan , Economic Development
Minister  Ebrahim Patel , National Planning Commission head  Trevor Manuel  and central bank Governor  Gill Marcus .  ‘Fair Assessment’  The IMF report was a “fair assessment” of economic
conditions and the government will consider the recommendations,
the National Treasury said in an e-mailed statement today.  The rand is overvalued by between 5 percent and 15 percent,
the IMF said, adding that there was a “large degree of
uncertainty around these estimates.”  Easing foreign exchange controls further to help weaken the
rand should continue, though a tax on portfolio inflows may not
be effective, the IMF said.  South Africa’s ruling  African National Congress  is
scheduled this week to discuss a proposal to impose the inflow
tax. National Treasury Director-General  Lesetja Kganyago  said on
Sept. 7 that such a tax won’t work because South Africa relies
on foreign investment in stocks and bonds to finance its current
account deficit.  Treasury Response  “The Minister of Finance has on numerous occasions,
including in the 2010 budget, called for a stable and
competitive real exchange rate,” the Treasury said. “National
Treasury has agreed to support the South African Reserve Bank to
accumulate foreign exchange reserves.”  The government should stick to its plan to curb expenditure
to help reduce the budget deficit, which the IMF estimated will
probably reach 4.7 percent of gross domestic product in the year
through March 2012, from 5.9 percent this year.  Rising public-sector wage demands may “jeopardize” the
government’s fiscal targets, it said.  Gordhan is due to publish revised budget and growth data in
his Medium Term Budget Policy Statement on Oct. 27. In February,
he estimated the economy would expand 2.3 percent this year and
the deficit will reach 6.2 percent of GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 