-- Increasing Demand for Oil Supertankers Fails to Reduce 20% Vessel Surplus
-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 2010-09-21T15:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/increasing-demand-for-oil-supertankers-fails-to-reduce-20-vessel-surplus.html
Strengthening demand for
supertankers to load 2 million-barrel cargoes of Middle East
crude oil failed to reduce a  surplus  of vessels competing for
shipments.  There are  20 percent  more very large crude carriers, or
VLCCs, seeking employment over the next 30 days than there are
cargoes, according to the median estimate of nine shipbrokers,
shipowners and derivative brokers surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The surplus was unchanged from Sept. 15.  “The tonnage oversupply is simply too much,” even though
demand for tankers is “decent” in the Persian Gulf,  Henrik With  and  Glenn Lodden , Oslo-based analysts at DnB NOR Markets,
said in an e-mailed report today.  The excess has ranged between 15 percent and 25 percent
since the start of the third quarter, compared with an average
surplus of 11 percent in the year’s first half, according to
prior surveys. Northern Hemisphere refineries are reconfigured
during the third quarter to produce extra winter fuels,
potentially causing their imports to decline temporarily.  Daily returns from the industry’s benchmark Saudi Arabia-
to-Japan route have averaged $14,251 this quarter, and freight
derivatives indicate fourth-quarter rental income of $23,575,
according to data from the Baltic Exchange and Imarex ASA, an
Oslo-based freight-derivatives broker.  Rental income from the route advanced 0.9 percent to $8,682
a day today, according to the Baltic Exchange. VLCCs need
$11,601 to pay crew, insurance repairs and other running costs,
according to Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd.  Returns averaged $10,267 a day in the third quarter of last
year before more than doubling to $25,319 in the following three
months, according to the Baltic Exchange.  The  Baltic Dirty Tanker Index , a wider measure of crude oil
transportation costs, declined 0.3 percent to 678 points today,
according to the bourse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 