-- Minerva Switches Focus From City of London to High-End Luxury Apartments
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-09-21T10:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/minerva-switches-focus-from-city-of-london-to-high-end-luxury-apartments.html
Minerva Plc , the second-largest
developer in London’s main financial district, plans to
concentrate on building luxury residential apartments once it
leases its two new office blocks.  “The City of London is not core for us; it is not a market
we are going to pursue heavily,” Chief Executive Officer
 Salmaan Hasan  said in an interview today. “London high-end
residential property seems to be high on the shopping list” for
wealthy foreign individuals looking to diversify their assets.  Minerva has two of the four largest developments in the
City of London. The Walbrook is the only new vacant office site
in the district with enough space to serve occupiers needing at
least 150,000 square feet (13,900 square meters).  Earlier this month, investors rejected an attempt by South
African billionaire  Nathan Kirsh  to oust Minerva Chairman  Oliver Whitehead  and Hasan over complaints about a lack of direction
and a clear strategy. Last year, Kirsh failed to buy the London-
based developer with an offer of 50 pence a share.  Hasan commented on the company’s plans today after Minerva
reported net income for the year through June of 69.1 million
pounds, or 41.4 pence a share, compared with a loss of 287
million pounds, or 178.1 pence, the previous year.  Minerva rose as much as 6.1 percent in London trading, the
biggest intraday gain in two weeks. The stock was up 1 pence, or
1 percent, at 99 pence as of 11:47 a.m., giving the company a
market value of about 161 million pounds. The  shares  have gained
32 percent this year.  Minerva has sold more than half of the 77 apartments in a
luxury development in London’s Lancaster Gate area that won’t be
completed until next year. They sold faster and for higher
prices than anticipated, Hasan said.  Former Brewery  The company is also focusing on mixed-use developments,
Hasan said. It is drawing up new proposals for the redevelopment
of a former brewery site in southwest London that was rejected
by the local municipality earlier this year.  Minerva is interested in working with other investors on
developments in the financial district, Hasan said. It would
look to earn a fee rather than take the financial risk on new
office towers.  The company won’t go ahead with a residential project on
the site of a former cinema in Kensington until it has “de-
risked” existing developments, he said. It hasn’t yet signed a
tenant for the 410,000 square-foot Walbrook. It has leased 45
percent of the 560,000 square-foot St. Botolphs building.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 