-- Infineon Increases 2010 Forecast on Smartphone Sales
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2010-09-21T16:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/infineon-raises-company-s-full-year-forecast-as-smartphones-increase-sales.html
Infineon Technologies AG , Europe’s
second-largest chipmaker, raised its fiscal 2010 profitability
and revenue forecast for a fourth time as it benefits from
higher-than-expected sales of smartphones.  The company predicts revenue in the 12 months ended Sept
30. will rise by about 50 percent with an operating profit
margin of 13 to 14 percent, Infineon said in a statement today.
That compares with a previous prediction for a “mid to high”
40s percent sales growth and a “low teens” percentage margin.  Infineon  shares  dropped 0.8 percent to close at 4.72 euros
as of 5:30 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The Neubiberg, Germany-
based company last raised its forecast on July 28.  Researcher  Gartner Inc.  this month raised its forecast for
worldwide semiconductor revenue in 2010 to $300 billion, a 31.5
percent increase from 2009. It warned “the industry cannot
maintain the momentum” in the second half of the year, or into
2011, partly because of slowing sales of computers and more
competition in chips for specific applications on mobile phones.  Infineon last month agreed to sell the unit that makes
semiconductors for wireless devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone
to  Intel Corp . After the disposal, Infineon will get most of its
revenue from chips for power and energy-efficiency applications
such as wind turbines, and from semiconductors for cars.  The wireless division “made a disproportionately higher
contribution to the increase in guidance driven especially by
higher than expected smartphone sales,” Infineon said today.  In the fourth quarter, sales will rise about 15 percent
from the third quarter, Infineon said. The margin will be at 18
percent to 20 percent, the company said.  On Aug. 27, Intel, the world’s biggest chipmaker, cut its
forecast for the third quarter, citing the weaker-than-expected
consumer demand for personal computers. Infineon will report
fiscal fourth-quarter results on Nov. 16.  STMicroelectronics NV ,
Europe’s largest semiconductor maker, will release third-quarter
results on Oct. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ragnhild Kjetland  in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  