-- Insurers Court ‘Danger’ Counting Commercial Mortgage Gains
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-09-21T16:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/insurers-court-danger-counting-commercial-mortgage-gains.html
Genworth Financial Inc.  said
insurance executives may court danger if they respond to a
recovery in commercial mortgages by increasing loans tied to
properties such as office buildings and shopping malls.  Genworth Chief Investment Officer  Ronald Joelson  said
managers will be pleased with the performance of their loan
portfolios and may say, “My God, if they survived this market
they must be money good.”  “It’s a danger that insurance companies are going to have
to keep in mind,” Joelson said today at a KPMG conference in
Brooklyn.  U.S. life insurers extend loans to property owners as part
of their investment strategy.  MetLife Inc. , the industry’s
biggest company, has commercial mortgage holdings of  $34.4
billion , almost 10 percent of the insurer’s portfolio. MetLife,
No. 2 Prudential Financial Inc. and Principal Financial Group
Inc. are among insurers that said this year that there may be
opportunities to invest in commercial real estate.  “More and more you’re likely to see those allocations
increase,” said Joelson, of Richmond, Virginia-based Genworth.  Joelson, previously an executive at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
was hired by Genworth in 2008 to reverse losses in the insurer’s
investment portfolio. The company’s commercial mortgage loans
were $7.2 billion as of June 30, according to a company filing,
compared with more than $8 billion at the end of 2008.  Relative yields on senior top-rated securities backed by
commercial mortgages fell 1.77 percentage points in the past
year to 2.52 percentage points more than Treasuries as the
economy stabilized, according to a Barclays Plc  index .
Commercial  property prices  are down about 40 percent from their
2007 peak, according to Moody’s Investors Service, as
unemployment of more than 9 percent reduced demand for office
space and pressured sales in shopping complexes.  “Employment is dismal,” Joelson said. “Some of the
retail properties that depend on consumer behavior are going to
be stressed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  