-- Iraq Government Allows Kuwaitis to Recover Real Estate Seized by Saddam
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-09-21T17:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/iraq-government-allows-kuwaitis-to-recover-real-estate-seized-by-hussein.html
Iraq will allow Kuwaitis who owned
Iraqi real estate to recover property seized by the regime of
 Saddam Hussein  after his invasion of Kuwait 20 years ago, the
government in Baghdad said.  Kuwaitis can recover their Iraqi property provided there is
no legal decision prohibiting it, Iraq’s government spokesman,
 Ali al-Dabbagh , said in an e-mailed statement after a cabinet
decision on the issue today.  The government also formed a ministerial committee “to
study the cases of citizens displaced from Kuwait, in order to
help them regain their rights and money,” he said.  Iraq invaded its southern neighbor in August 1990 before
being forced to pull out by a U.S.-led international coalition
seven months later. During the invasion, Hussein’s regime
confiscated Kuwaiti property in Iraq and plundered airplanes and
other equipment from Kuwait. Hussein was toppled in the 2003
U.S.-led invasion of Iraq.  Iraq, holder of the world’s fourth-largest oil reserves,
allocates 5 percent of its annual oil revenue to pay Kuwait
compensation for the 1990 invasion.  Tensions between the two states have lingered since the
war. Iraq dissolved its national airline in May in response to
legal action against the company by Kuwait, which sought $1.2
billion in compensation for aircraft seized by the Iraqi regime
in 1990.  Dabbagh said two days ago that Iraq is intent on improving
relations with Kuwait. He said the two countries will start
demarcating their common border before investing jointly in oil
fields in the area.  Kuwaiti Oil Minister Sheikh  Ahmad al-Abdullah al-Sabah  said
on Aug. 25 that his country and Iraq had agreed in principle to
share oil fields straddling their border to avoid any future
accusations that either side is “over-utilizing” the fields.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net . 