-- Ireland Sells Bonds, Calms Concern That Bailout Needed
-- B y   L o u i s a   F a h y
-- 2010-09-21T19:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/ireland-sells-1-5-billion-euros-in-debt-as-borrowing-costs-rise-fears-ebb.html
Ireland sold 1.5 billion euros
($2 billion) of bonds, easing concern that the country may need
to be rescued by the European Union.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold 10-year Irish
debt over German bunds, which exceeded 400 basis points for the
first time yesterday, narrowed 18 basis points to 384 basis
points after the auction. Ireland sold 1 billion euros of
securities due October 2018 at a yield of 6.023 percent, up from
5.088 percent in June, the  National Treasury Management Agency 
in Dublin said. It sold 500 million euros of bonds maturing in
January 2014 at an average yield of 4.767 percent, compared with
3.627 percent at an Aug. 17 auction.  Until recently, investors fled Irish bonds on concern that
the cost of shoring up the country’s banks will hurt efforts to
tame the European Union’ biggest deficit, which was 13.6 percent
of the gross domestic product last year. Central bank Governor
 Patrick Honohan  said yesterday that bank bailout costs remain
“manageable” and shouldn’t derail the government’s deficit-
cutting efforts.  “For investors this is great but for the government and
the taxpayers it is horrible,” said  Willem Buiter , chief
economist at Citigroup Inc., in an interview today. “From a
technical point it was highly successful, over five times
oversubscribed.”  The Irish 10-year bond yield fell 15 basis points to 6.38
percent as of 4:50 p.m. in London. The NTMA said the exchequer
is now fully funded through the first half of 2011.  Spread Narrows  Portuguese  spreads also narrowed, with the extra yield on
its 10-year bonds falling to 385 basis points after touching a
record 399 yesterday. Portugal will sell 1 billion euros in
bonds tomorrow.  Today’s rebound came after a Bloomberg survey showed that
Germany’s biggest bond dealers forecast that yields on Greek,
Spanish, Irish and Portuguese bonds would fall to within
2.2 percentage points of benchmark German bunds on average in
the next two years. That would be down from 4.61 percent
percentage points last week.  In Ireland, Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  now needs to
convince investors that he can get Ireland’s budget deficit
under control and bailing out Ireland’s banks won’t sink the
country’s finance.  “Clearly we’re paying higher interest rates,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin.
“You can’t go on paying a premium every single month for an
auction.”  Bank Bailouts  Irish lenders have been hurt by the collapse of the
country’s real estate market and a recession that led the
economy to contract more than 7 percent last year. The
government has injected almost 33 billion euros into banks and
building societies, with two-thirds of that going to  Anglo Irish
Bank Corp. , which was nationalized last year.  While Anglo executives say the lender may need a total of
about 25 billion euros, Standard & Poor’s said the figure may be
as high as 35 billion euros. That’s equivalent to 21 percent of
gross domestic product.  A spokeswoman for the central bank in Dublin said yesterday
that a final cost estimate for the Anglo Irish bailout is at
“an advanced stage of readiness.”  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan , in newspaper interviews
this weekend, rejected speculation that the cost of bailing out
the banking system will force the country to turn to the EU and
the International Monetary Fund for emergency funding.  Demand  Investors bid for 5.1 times the amount of the 2014 bond
offered, compared with 5.4 times last month. Demand for the 2018
security had a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 2.9, the same as
in June.  “Our base case remains that the government will not turn
to the EU and IMF for a funding package,” said  Gillian Edgeworth , an economist at UniCredit in London. That “would
change very rapidly in the event that the banking sector as a
whole in Ireland experienced a significant deposit outflow,”
she said.  Cowen’s government has cut wages and raised taxes in a bid
to bring the deficit from 13.6 percent of gross domestic product
last year to within the EU’s 3 percent limit in 2014.  The economic crisis and growing cost of the bank bailouts
has led some of Cowen’s allies to express doubts about his
leadership style.  Tom Kitt , a lawmaker for Ireland’s ruling
Fianna Fail party, said the party should meet to discuss its
leadership. Lenihan, flanking Cowen at a press conference in
Dublin late yesterday, said bond markets haven’t been affected
by doubts over Cowen’s future.  “The most important rumblings around here are the
rumblings we are seeing in international markets,” Lenihan
said. He criticized opposition parties for “unhelpful”
comments about the possibility of negotiating with Anglo Irish
bondholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Louisa Fahy  in Dublin at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  