-- Israel’s ‘Tolstoy’ Recalls Personal Calamity, National Disaster
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2010-09-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/israel-s-tolstoy-recalls-personal-calamity-national-disaster-interview.html
David Grossman  spent years seeking
the right characters and language for his new novel on the
Mideast conflict. Then the conflict took his son’s life in
circumstances that echo the book’s plot.  It’s a parallel Grossman prefers not to dwell on.  “I’d rather separate between my personal story and the
story I’ve written,” he says during an interview in his agent’s
home in Jerusalem. “You don’t have to go through such a
personal catastrophe to understand what life is made of here.”  Staff Sergeant Uri Grossman, 20, was killed when an
antitank missile hit his tank during the 2006 war in Lebanon. At
the time, his father was almost finished writing “To the End of
the Land,” the tale of an Israeli mother who expects the worst
when her own son is sent to the front. It’s a novel of war, not
peace, with a protagonist who has been likened to  Leo Tolstoy’s 
Anna Karenina.  A fountain gurgles in the garden outside as the 56-year-old
Israeli author talks in the living room of the old stone house.
He’s wearing a button-down shirt and slacks. The wall behind him
is lined with books.  The English-language edition of “To the End of the Land”
was released this month as Israeli and Palestinian leaders began
their first peace talks in 20 months. Grossman, an outspoken
advocate of reaching a settlement, views this as a make-or-break
moment.  “I’m afraid we won’t be given another chance,” he says.
“If this conflict isn’t solved now, we might be doomed to
experience another cycle of bloodshed, after which the two
peoples will be no more clever or courageous.”  Paralyzed by Fear  Much hinges, he says, on the ability of Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  to move beyond their fears.  “They are so entrenched in their positions -- so terrified
to give an inch -- that they have lost the flexibility needed to
be creative,” he says.  The most contentious immediate obstacle in the talks is
Israel’s construction of Jewish settlements on the West Bank.
Abbas wants all building to stop; Netanyahu refuses to extend a
limited 10-month freeze on construction.  Reaching a peace, even a fragile one, is essential to
Israel’s well-being, he says: “Israel was meant to be the
national home of the Jews, and until now it is not the home it
was meant to be. It’s like living in a house where the walls are
mobile all the time.”  Grossman and other Israeli authors who oppose the conflict
routinely give speeches at rallies, sign petitions and write
opinion columns. For many Israelis, they are secular spiritual
leaders, though Grossman refuses to see himself as such.  “It is the role of the writer to keep an eye on the
precision of the language, to call things by their name, to look
at the text of the conflict from the eyes of our partner or our
enemy,” he says.  Armor Without Knight  Israel, for all its military preparedness, is running the
risk of losing that perspective, he says: “We were in danger of
becoming a suit of armor without the knight inside it.”  Of his eight novels, the only other one to explore the
Mideast conflict is “Smile of the Lamb,” published in 1983.
Grossman has preferred to tackle the conflict in nonfiction,
such as “Writing in the Dark” and “The Yellow Wind.”  “For some years, I felt I didn’t find the right language
because everything sounded cliché,” he says. He eventually got
around that by focusing on a single family.  “I wanted to document or capture the delicacy and
tenderness of one family put against the background of the
conflict with all its brutality and cruelty,” he says. “The
nature of war is to make people faceless. It negates the right
of the individual to be an individual.”  ‘Not Trapped’  In “To the End of the Land,” an Israeli mother, Ora, is
looking forward to celebrating her son’s release from  military
service  when he’s ordered to return to the front for a major
offensive. Convinced he will die in battle, she sets out for a
hike in the Galilee for the duration of the conflict, traveling
with a former lover, Avram, himself a veteran of the Yom Kippur
War.  Reviews of the English edition have been positive, with
American novelist Paul Auster going so far as to compare Ora to
both  Tolstoy’s  Anna Karenina and Gustave Flaubert’s Emma Bovary.  “The reaction to my book meant something,” Grossman says.
“It showed Israelis that we are not trapped or frozen by the
conflict.”  Translated from the Hebrew by Jessica Cohen, “To the End
of the Land” is published by  Knopf  in the U.S. and by Cape in
the U.K. (576 pages, $26.95, 18.99 pounds). To buy this book in
North America, click  here .  To contact the reporters on the story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net . 