-- Liverpool's Agger Criticizes Coach Roy Hodgson's Tactics: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-09-21T10:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/liverpool-s-agger-criticizes-coach-roy-hodgson-s-tactics-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Agger Anger  Liverpool’s  Daniel Agger  says he won’t follow manager Roy
Hodgson’s plans to play long balls, the  Express  said.  The Danish national team player, who has fallen behind
 Martin Skrtel  in the coach’s squad choices, wants to start
attacks by bringing the ball out of defense instead of using
long passes forward, the newspaper said.  Going for Andrigo  Manchester United and Barcelona are ready to battle over
Andrigo, a 15-year-old Brazilian forward, the  Daily Mirror  said.  The Internacional Porto Alegre player impressed scouts
during a tournament in Manchester and was invited to Spain for a
trial, the newspaper said.  Fabregas Return  Arsenal midfielder Cesc Fabregas injured his knee while
scoring against Sunderland last weekend and will miss two weeks,
the  Telegraph  reported.  The captain will probably miss the home match with West
Brom and a Champions League game against Partizan Belgrade, the
newspaper said. He wasn’t scheduled to play in tonight’s Carling
Cup match with Tottenham, and should return on Oct. 3 at
Chelsea.  Ronaldo Under Pressure  Cristiano Ronaldo is being jeered by some Real Madrid
supporters after failing to score in four matches even after 41
attempts on goal, the  Daily Mail said .  After taking the No. 7 jersey when Raul left the team,
Ronaldo has had just 14 of his attempts on target, the newspaper
said. Some fans are booing because they say he’s being selfish,
the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 