-- China's Wen Threatens Japan With More Action Over Jailed Captain
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-22T12:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/japan-says-china-boat-captain-detention-shouldn-t-fan-extreme-nationalism.html
China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao 
threatened more retaliatory action unless Japan “immediately
and unconditionally” releases the fishing captain detained two
weeks ago in disputed waters, Xinhua News Agency said.  Wen spoke in New York, where he and Japan’s Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan  are to attend the United Nations  General Assembly .
Tensions between Asia’s two largest economies are rising over
rival claims to a group of uninhabited  islets  and outcrops about
200 miles (322 kilometers) off the northeast coast of Taiwan.  Japan called for “high level” talks to ease the conflict.
In response, China’s foreign ministry spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  said
today that Japan had “seriously harmed” bilateral relations
and should correct its mistakes by releasing the captain.
“Playing tricks to deceive the world and international public
opinion is not a way out,” she said in comments on the
ministry’s website.  The diplomatic row is the most serious since 2005, when
thousands of Chinese protested Japanese textbooks that
downplayed wartime atrocities. The detention sparked a Sept. 18
protest at Japan’s embassy in Beijing that was more tightly
controlled by police than those five years ago, when
demonstrators threw rocks at the consulate in Shanghai.  Gas Fields  The islands are in the East China Sea near natural gas
fields that the two countries agreed to jointly develop in 2008.
The agreement has yet to be implemented, and China broke off
talks on the issue when the captain was detained after his boat
collided with two Japanese Coast Guard vessels.  China said this week it had severed senior-level
government contacts after Japanese prosecutors extended the
captain’s detention until Sept. 29. Failure to release the
skipper would see “further measures” taken against Japan,
Xinhua cited Wen as saying, without elaborating.  “While we haven’t confirmed exactly what the Chinese Prime
Minister said and so don’t know about the nuances, we believe
broad, strategic talks on a high level as soon as possible would
be beneficial,” Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  said in
Tokyo. The case against the captain, Zhan Qixiong, is proceeding
according to Japanese law, Sengoku said.  ‘Respond Calmly’  Japan’s foreign ministry on Sept. 20 said China had revoked
an invitation for 1,000 youths to attend the  Shanghai World Expo ,
and ticket sales for two concerts in the city by pop band SMAP
were suspended, Asahi newspaper reported. Still, there’s no
evidence yet the spat has affected business ties.  “It’s necessary to respond calmly to maintain Japan-China
relations,” Kan said today in Tokyo before departing for New
York. China said yesterday the dispute makes it impossible for
 Wen  and Kan to meet at the UN conference.  Japan is China’s second-biggest trading partner after the
U.S., with two-way commerce in the first seven months of the
year rising 25 percent from the same period in 2009 to $65.2
billion, Chinese customs data show. China is Japan’s largest
trading partner, buying 10.2 trillion yen ($121 billion) of the
nation’s goods and services last year.  Sony Corp.  and  Panasonic Corp. , the world’s two largest
consumer electronics makers, are cutting television
prices in China in a push to expand market share in the world’s
second-largest market for flat-panel TVs.  Sharp Corp.  expects
China to overtake Europe as its biggest market this fiscal year,
accounting for 29 percent of overall sales.  Proceedings ‘Invalid’  Japan has repeatedly refused to release the captain during
the investigation over the Sept. 7 collision near the islands,
known as Diaoyu in Chinese and  Senkaku  in Japanese. China
maintains that Japan’s judicial proceedings against the skipper
are “invalid” because the area is Chinese.  China’s increasing economic power and military might,
coupled with the government’s often strident territorial claims,
are unsettling its neighbors and created an opening for the
United States to strengthen security ties in the region.  China yesterday signaled that the U.S. should stay out of
any territorial disputes in the South China Sea. The Chinese
claims overlap those of Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia,
Brunei and Indonesia, whose leaders or their deputies will meet
with U.S. President  Barack Obama  on Sept. 24 in New York.  Japan occupied large sections of China during a 1937-1945
war in which millions of Chinese died, and the legacy of that
conflict continues to color their relations.  -- Takashi Hirokawa ,  Michael Forsythe . With assistance from
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo and  Henry Sanderson  in Beijing. Editors:
 Ben Richardson ,  John Brinsley   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  