-- Japanese Bonds Rise for a Second Day on Fed Easing Signals, Yen's Advance
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-09-22T06:31:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/japan-s-bonds-may-rise-after-fed-signals-willing-to-ease-monetary-policy.html
Japanese  bonds  advanced for a
second day as the Federal Reserve’s willingness to ease monetary
policy further spurred speculation the yen will strengthen and
hurt domestic company profits.  Benchmark 10-year  yields  declined toward a three-week low
after a former top currency official in Japan said the nation’s
first intervention in six years will fail to stop the yen’s
climb to a record. Bonds also gained on concern overseas trade
will suffer after a ship collision in disputed waters caused a
rift in relations with China, Japan’s biggest export market.  “If the Fed eases policy, differences in the degree of
monetary easing between the U.S. and Japan will spur further yen
appreciation,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist at Tokyo-
based Norinchukin Research Institute Co. “The negative
influence of a stronger yen on exporters’ earnings will drive
down bond yields.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year bond fell two basis
points to 1.025 percent at 3:07 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1
percent debt due September 2020 rose 0.18 yen to 99.773. Yields
touched 1.0 percent, the lowest since Sept. 1.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery gained 0.27 to
142.65 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield slid 13 basis points
yesterday in New York after the Federal Open Market Committee
said it’s prepared “to provide additional accommodation if
needed to support economic recovery.” Yields on two-year notes
fell to an all-time low.  ‘Matter of Time’  The yen’s gain to a record is “just a matter of time” and
the latest intervention won’t change the trend,  Eisuke Sakakibara , formerly Japan’s top currency official, said in an
interview yesterday. The yen rose to 82.88 per dollar on Sept.
15, the strongest since May 1995, before Japan unilaterally sold
the currency. It rose 0.2 percent today to 84.93.  Bank of Japan board member Ryuzo Miyao said in a speech
today that Japan is “entering a situation where we need to pay
more attention to downside risks.” Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
said the central bank needs to monitor risks to Japan’s economy,
exports, and corporate profitability, the Yomiuri newspaper
reported, citing an interview.  “The bond market will remain robust, considering the
favorable environment,” said  Kazuhiko Sano , Tokyo-based chief
strategist at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co. “The 1 percent level
for 10-year yields is a resistance line.”  China Tension  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao won’t meet Japanese Prime
Minister Naoto Kan during the United Nations summit in New York
this week, the China Daily reported, citing Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Jiang Yu. Japanese prosecutors have extended the
detention of a Chinese fishing boat captain until Sept. 29 over
a collision with two Coast Guard vessels in disputed waters in
the East China Sea.  “If relations with China worsen, it will inflict sizable
damage on Japan’s economy,” said Norinchukin’s Minami. “That
misfortune would be a positive factor for Japan’s bond market.”  China was Japan’s biggest export market by the value of
products shipped during the first half of 2010, according to a
Ministry of Finance  report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  