-- Japan Land-Price Declines Slow for First Time in Three Years
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2010-09-22T06:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/japan-land-price-declines-slow-for-first-time-since-2007-as-buyers-return.html
Japanese  land-price  declines slowed
for the first time since 2007 as credit conditions eased and the
nation emerged from its deepest postwar recession.  The nationwide average price dropped 3.7 percent in the 12
months ended June, compared with a 4.4 percent decline a year
earlier, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and
Tourism said in a  report  released yesterday. Prices have fallen
for 19 straight years.  The drop in land values, which are about half of what they
were after the peak of Japan’s bubble economy in the 1980s, may
continue to ease as homebuyers and developers return to the $27
trillion market. Tokyo condominium prices rose to a 20-month
high in March, signaling a recovery in the sector, said Yoji Otani , a real estate analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Tokyo.  “We’re starting to see a significant pick-up in land
acquisitions, signaling that prices are bottoming out in
Tokyo,” said  Keiji Kimura , chief executive officer at
Mitsubishi Estate Co., Japan’s biggest developer.  The 44-member Topix Real Estate Index rose 1.4 percent,
making it the  best performer  among the 33 industry groups that
make up the benchmark. Mitsubishi Estate Co., Japan’s second-
largest developer, gained 1.4 percent to 1,339 yen at the 3 p.m.
close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, while Mitsui Fudosan Co., the
nation’s largest,  added  1.7 percent to 1,411 yen.  Direct commercial real estate investment in Japan rose 35
percent to $5.8 billion in the second quarter from same period
last year,  according  to Chicago-based Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  Property Purchases  Acquisitions by the country’s 37 publicly traded real
estate investment trusts more than doubled in the six months
ended June to 372 billion yen ($4.38 billion) from a year
earlier, according to  IB Research and Consulting Inc. , a Tokyo-
based research firm.  “We are already on a recovery trend although the pace is
very slow,” Deutsche’s Otani said. “Japan’s market is big so
we can’t expect a sudden turnaround.”   Declines  in value in Tokyo, Osaka and Nagoya, the three
major metropolitan areas, slowed to 3.2 percent, from a drop of
6.1 percent a year earlier, the Land Ministry report said.
Prices in rural districts fell 3.9 percent from the 3.8 percent
decline a year earlier.  Tokyo’s Chiyoda ward, where the Imperial Palace is located,
had the nation’s priciest residential land at 2.8 million yen
per square meter, the data showed.  The most expensive piece of commercial property remained in
Tokyo’s Ginza  shopping district , where land can cost as much as
20.2 million yen per square meter, the report said.  Luxury Brands  Still, four out of the top ten commercial sites in Japan
with the steepest declines were located in Ginza, the report
showed. The drops reflected falling rents because of the closure
of luxury-brand stores in the district, said Yutaka Iwaki,
director of the Land Ministry’s price research division.  PPR SA’s  Gucci outlet in Matsuzakaya department store in
Ginza this year was replaced by Forever 21, a less expensive
brand that targets younger consumers, J. Front Retailing Co.
 said  in a release.  Nationwide commercial land prices fell 4.6 percent last
year and residential land values dropped 3.4 percent, the report
showed.  Commercial prices  are 60 percent of what they were in 1991
when they peaked, while residential values are at 35 percent.  The average price of a Tokyo condominium rose 6.8 percent
to 50.7 million yen in March from a year earlier, the highest
since July 2008, according to Real Estate Economic Research
Institute Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kathleen Chu  in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
 Katsuyo Kuwako  in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  