-- Naked Men Search for What Matters Most: Susan Antilla
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2010-09-28T16:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/naked-men-get-in-touch-with-what-matters-most-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
(Corrects column published Sept. 21 to delete reference in
sixth paragraph to Landmark Education, which runs traditional
seminars in business settings. Deletes quote in seventh
paragraph.)  Hey guys, if the boss told you to
pack up for a weekend seminar of treats like getting naked with
a bunch of other men,  passing around  a wooden phallus, and
working toward a more “mature  sense of masculinity ,” you’d get
with the program, wouldn’t you?  You know, spilling your guts about those childhood traumas
and then storming into the sweat lodge with your new pals,
agreeing along the way to a lifelong pledge to keep it all
secret from the outside world? Kind of like the way it works at
the office for some of you.  Fun as it all might sound, a lawyer in California took
offense when his boss suggested that it would be a good idea to
sign up for the $650 New Warrior Training Adventure, described
on the website of a group called the ManKind Project as “a
modern male initiation and self-examination.”  In a lawsuit filed in a California court on Aug. 31, Steven
Eggleston, a chiropractor-turned-negligence lawyer, said he was
getting paid $15,000 a month until he refused to go to a
secluded warrior weekend in the mountains of Santa Barbara.
Before you knew it, Eggleston’s compensation was down to zero,
according to the  complaint , and the boss had gotten so hostile
that Eggleston says he had to quit.  Warrior Weekend  Brian Chase, one of Eggleston’s former bosses and a partner
at Bisnar/Chase LLP in Newport Beach, California, says it’s true
that the firm’s owner, John Bisnar, suggested Eggleston go to
the  warrior weekend , but it was “not a requirement of
employment.” The firm had an agreement to pay Eggleston a draw
against the business he brought in, and Eggleston owed the firm
money by the time he left, Chase said. He said there was no
retaliation.  It isn’t unheard-of for a company to dispatch employees to
so-called boot camps that promise to improve interpersonal
skills or even transform their sometimes-miserable lives. One is
Vancouver-based  Lululemon Athletica Inc. , known for its line of
athletic wear. It has gone so far as to require franchisees to
attend seminars run by a self-help group.  People aren’t always gung-ho about signing up for the
touchy-felly boot camps, though, as the Eggleston lawsuit
illustrates. Objections come up in particular when there’s a
chance someone’s going to suggest you take off your clothes. And 
if you’re Steven Eggleston, and the boss is saying he might be
coming along for the sometimes-nudie weekend, it’s got to be a
real buzz kill to think you could be passing that wooden dildo
around the room in front of the guy who signs your paycheck.  Google Search  Eggleston says he learned about what ManKind refers to on
its website as “ a carved wooden phallus ” by doing a Google
search that also unearthed reports of the 2005 suicide of a 29-
year-old man who shot himself two weeks after attending a
warrior weekend outside of Houston.  George Daranyi, chairman of the ManKind Project
International, said in an e-mail that a lawsuit brought by the
man’s parents “was settled confidentially with no admission of
wrongdoing or responsibility,” and noted that the suit was
brought against the local Houston operation, not the
international organization.  Eggleston, of course, decided not to attend the warrior
weekend, but Chase says that other employees at Bisnar/Chase
have made the plunge and “always said it’s a great thing.”  Clothing Optional  Mankind says it’s a great thing, too, and defends its
programs.  Its executive director, Carl Griesser, posted a lengthy
response on the Web after a Houston newspaper reported that
people attending Mankind seminars were -- imagine -- taking
their clothes off. Griesser set the record straight on that,
pointing out that, well, sometimes people at the seminars do
indeed take their clothes off.  The Eggleston complaint doesn’t name ManKind as a
defendant, but it does say that all that penis-passing and
sweat-lodge stuff is the basis of a sexual harassment charge.
Chase called the suit a frivolous “shakedown.”  Neither side has an easy case in the view of Harvard Law
School  professor  Janet Halley. But if Eggleston prevails, he is
likely to have been helped by the argument that his bosses
“brought sex into the workplace in a way that was hostile,”
she says.  There’s nothing sexual about the optional nudity that goes
on at New Warrior Training Adventures, ManKind insists on its
website. Maybe not to the instructors. But it sure didn’t sound
platonic to a lawyer in California who’s launched a whole new
genre of harassment suits, in which guys are determined to keep
their pants on.  ( Susan Antilla  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Susan Antilla  in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  