-- Nespresso Opens Stores as North American Sales Rise
-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 2010-09-22T01:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/nespresso-opening-soho-florida-stores-as-north-american-sales-rise-50-.html
Nespresso sales in the U.S. and
Canada have increased about 50 percent this year, helped by
store openings and a new distribution agreement, said Frederic
Levy, the head of Nestle’s Nespresso brand in those markets.  The coffee company is opening its 13th sales location in
the region tomorrow with a “boutique” in New York’s Soho
neighborhood, said Levy, who is president of Nespresso in North
America. A shop within a Sur La Table store in Florida will
follow next month.  “The new coffee culture is expanding” in the U.S., Levy
said today in a telephone interview. “Word of mouth is very
strong.”  Nespresso sales reached 2.77 billion Swiss francs ($2.76
billion) worldwide last year, with about 90 percent of the total
from Europe. That’s almost 3 percent of Vevey, Switzerland-based
 Nestle’s revenue . First-half Nespresso sales increased more than
25 percent, Nestle said Aug. 11. The brand is growing even as
U.S. consumers have cut spending, according to analysts.  “It may be super-premium, but any consumer can afford to
buy the machines and the capsules,” said  James Amoroso , a food
industry consultant in Walchwil, Switzerland. “It is also a
market that is still at the very beginning of its life cycle.
Penetration in the U.S. must still be extremely low.”  Nespresso doesn’t plan price increases in the U.S. in 2010,
Levy said, adding that the last boost was in early 2008. Futures
contracts for Arabica coffee beans have been trading near the
highest in almost 13 years.  Crate & Barrel stores began selling Nespresso machines in
March, Levy said. The coffee makers range from $149 to $2,500
and the capsules average 55 cents each.  Single-serve machines are responsible for about 7 percent
of the global coffee market, according to Nespresso. The brand
plans to eventually have 20 to 30 boutiques in the U.S., Levy
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 