-- Netanyahu Says He Hopes Abbas Won't Abandon Talks Over Settlement Building
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-09-21T17:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/netanyahu-wants-israeli-troops-on-palestinian-state-s-border-with-jordan.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said he hopes Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  doesn’t walk away from U.S.-backed peace talks.  Abbas has said negotiations can’t continue unless Israel
extends its 10-month partial moratorium on settlement
construction, which expires on Sept. 26. Netanyahu has said
there is no change in the Cabinet decision to lift the freeze.  “If you walk away from talks, you walk away from peace,”
Netanyahu told reporters today in the southern Israeli town of
Sderot, a frequent target of missiles from the adjacent Gaza
Strip. “The only way we are going to resolve this is to stick
with it.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Mideast envoy
 George Mitchell , who participated in the second round of
negotiations that took place in Jerusalem and Egypt last week,
have said the sides were making progress on a compromise. They
didn’t elaborate.  West Bank settlers are preparing to start building again
after the expiration of the moratorium.  Netanyahu said he would consider the possibility of holding
a national referendum on any final deal reached with the
Palestinians, a proposal put forward by a member of his Likud
party. “If we reach an agreement, it is clear that it needs to
be brought before the people in one way or another,” Netanyahu
said.  ‘Tough Neighborhood’  Netanyahu has stressed that an Israeli priority in the
talks is security, and yesterday said any peace agreement with
the Palestinians must allow for a “long-term Israeli presence
on the eastern side” of an independent state, along its border
with Jordan.  “I don’t believe that under these circumstances
international troops will do the job,” Netanyahu said in a
conference call with American Jewish leaders, according to a
transcript posted on his office’s  Web site . “We live in a very
tough neighborhood and the peace will be tested constantly.”  Hanan Ashrawi , a former negotiator and member of the
Palestine Liberation Organization’s executive committee, said
Abbas would never agree to an Israeli military deployment along
the proposed state’s borders.  “President Abbas has expressed readiness to discuss with
the international community a deployment of international forces
on our borders for a certain period of time,” Ashrawi said in a
phone interview. “We will never agree to even one single
Israeli soldier on the borders of our future Palestinian
state.”  Israeli Spy  Asked about a report on Israel’s Army Radio that the
government may propose a deal to extend the settlement freeze in
return for the U.S. freeing Israeli spy  Jonathan Pollard , the
prime minister replied that there was no need to use peace talks
to raise the issue. “I raised this in my first meeting with
Obama, and since then several other times,” he said.  Pollard was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1987 for
passing classified material to Israel while working as an
analyst for U.S. Naval Intelligence.  The last round of direct Israeli-Palestinian negotiations
were suspended when Israel launched a military operation in the
Gaza Strip in December 2008 in what it said was an attempt to
stop rocket attacks from the Hamas-controlled territory on its
southern towns and cities.  Rocket Attacks  Since the end of operation in January 2009, 403 rockets and
mortar shells have been launched from Gaza into Israel, an
Israeli military official said, speaking anonymously according
to regulation. In September, 28 projectiles were launched, the
highest monthly number of attacks since March, when 29 shells
and rockets were fired.  Hamas, which is considered a terrorist organization by the
U.S., the European Union and Israel, has resorted to violence in
past attempts to derail peace negotiations with Israel. The
Islamic militant group seized full control of Gaza in 2007,
ending a partnership government with Abbas’s Fatah party that
began after Hamas won a majority in parliamentary elections the
previous year.  “I set the policy that any rocket fire would meet with
immediate response,” Netanyahu told reporters today in the
southern city of Ashkelon, another target of Gaza-launched
rockets. “This policy will continue and I strongly advise Hamas
and other terror groups not to test our determination to react
aggressively against acts of aggression.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at o
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 