-- Netgear, Mamma Mia's, Intel, RIM, Stevie Wonder: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-09-21T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/netgear-mamma-mia-s-intel-rim-stevie-wonder-intellectual-property.html
Netgear Inc.’s  victory over patent-
infringement claims by  Fujitsu Ltd.  and  LG Electronics Inc.  was
upheld by a U.S. appeals court, while some allegations by  Royal
Philips Electronics NV  were allowed to proceed.  Netgear’s wireless networking products don’t use technology
patented by Fujitsu and LG, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit in Washington said yesterday. The panel  said 
“genuine issues of material fact remain” on a Philips patent
regarding four Netgear models and ordered a lower court to
rehear that part of the case.  LG, Fujitsu and Philips are part of a licensing pool for
patents related to an industry standard for networking gear.
Each claimed infringement of a different aspect of wireless
communications. Netgear, based in San Jose, California, argued
that it could comply with the industry standard without using
the patented inventions.  “A district court may rely on an industry standard in
analyzing infringement,” the three-judge panel of the appeals
court ruled. Still, “an accused infringer is free to either
prove that the claims do not cover all implementations of the
standard or to prove that it does not practice the standard.”  The 802.11 standard that’s at the heart of the case is a
protocol for wireless local-area networks that let computers
talk to each other at high speeds.  The case is Fujitsu Ltd. v. Netgear Inc., 2010-1045, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower
court case is Fujitsu Ltd. v. Netgear Inc., 07cv710, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Wisconsin (Madison).  Mamma Mia’s Accuses Bagel Company of Making False Patent Claims  A Florida pizza parlor sued a bagel maker for making false
patent claims.  Brooklyn Water Bagel Co.  of Delray Beach, Florida, is
accused of claiming it uses a “14-step patented process” to
replicate city water from Brooklyn, New York. This process,
according to the complaint filed Sept. 17 in federal court in
West Palm Beach, Florida, is supposed to create a bagel
identical to those made in Brooklyn, New York.  Mamma Mia’s Trattoria Inc.  of Lake Worth, Florida, says of
the seven patents the bagel company claims cover its process,
four are expired, and the other three aren’t applicable to the
process. None of the patents in any way covers a 14-step water-
treatment process, Mamma Mia says in its court papers.  Brooklyn Water Bagel didn’t respond immediately to an e-
mailed request for comment.  According to the company website ,
the water process it is franchising nationwide enables
replication of Brooklyn water, and will be monitored via
satellite.  Larry King, who is retiring from Cable News Network’s Larry
King Live is assisting the bagel company with franchise
development, Brooklyn Water Bagel said in a  statement .  Mamma Mia’s says the patent claims the bagel company makes
have “wrongfully quelled competition and innovation,” harming
the public, the U.S. and the pizza restaurant.  It asked the court to declare it can use its own water
treatment apparatus and sell its food products despite what it
says are the bagel company’s “false claims,” It also seeks
awards of money damages, attorney fees, and litigation costs.  Water treatment is an important issue in some parts of
Florida where the water may have an unpleasant taste because of
a detectable sulfur content.  John P. Kelly  of the  Kelly Law Firm  of Ft. Lauderdale,
Florida represents Mamma Mia’s. The case is Mamma Mia’s
Trattoria Inc., v. The Original Brooklyn Water Bagel Co., 9:10-
cv-81106-KLR, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(West Palm Beach).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Bidding for SCO’s Unix Assets Starts After Court Approves Sale  The  SCO Group Inc. , which lost a court battle over the
rights to the Unix operating system, is selling all its Unix
assets, the company said in a  statement  yesterday.  The Lindon, Utah-based company had claimed it was owed
royalties by  International Business Machines Corp.  for the
unauthorized use of Unix code in the Linux operating system.  Novell Inc.  of Waltham, Massachusetts, actually owned the
rights, a Salt Lake City jury in federal court decided in March.
In August the Delaware bankruptcy group gave the Utah company
authorization to sell its software assets.  According to the SCO statement, bids must be submitted by
October 5. The sale is being handled by  Ocean Park Advisors LLC 
of Los Angeles.  The bankruptcy case is In re SCO Group Inc., 07-11337, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington). The case
against Novell was SCO Group v. Novell Inc., 2:04-cv-00139-TS,
U.S. District Court, District of Utah.  Intel Acknowledges Security Key Leaked, Will Sue Wrongdoers  Intel Corp. , the world’s largest semiconductor maker, has
acknowledged that a security key to a digital content protection
technology it developed has been leaked via the Internet, Wired
News  reported .  The Santa Clara, California-based chip company said it
would sue anyone who uses it to create devices to defeat the
copy-protection technology, according to Wired.  Tom Waldrop, an Intel spokesman, told Wired that the key
was probably not leaked by a human, but was cracked by someone
who used “mathematics and computers” to work back to the key.  Release of the key could enable hardware makers to create
devices that can defeat copy-protection technology for films and
music, according to Wired.  Stevie Wonder Calls for Copyright Laws to Benefit Disabled  Stevie Wonder, the blind singer who was named a United
Nations Messenger of Peace, told a UN agency that copyright law
must take into account the needs of those with disabilities.  Speaking yesterday  in Geneva at the annual meeting of the
U.N’s Assemblies of the World Intellectual Property
Organization, Wonder called for a “Declaration of freedom for
people with disabilities.” He noted that the European Union,
Brazil, Mexico and Paraguay, the U.S. and a group of African
nations have proposed different plans for “cross-border
transfer of information.”  Wonder said what was needed is “a protocol that has a
binding effect and at the same time respects the rights of all
involved.”  The protocol must enable “the easy import and
export of copyright materials so that people with print
disabilities can join the mainstream of the literate world.”  He closed his remarks by singing two of his best-known
songs, “You Are the Sunshine of My Life,” and “Mon Cheri
Amour.”  Wonder  was designated  a UN Messenger of Peace in December
2009 for his work on behalf of people with disabilities. The
other designated Messengers of Peace are conductor Daniel
Barenboim, actor George Clooney, author Paulo Coelho, actor
Michael Douglas, primatologist Jane Goodall, violinist Midori
Goto, Jordan’s Princess Haya Bint al Hussein, cellist Yo-Yo Ma,
actress Charlize Theron, and Nobel Laureate Elie Wiesel.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  RIM’s Canadian Trademark Filing May Be for Tablet Device  Research In Motion Ltd. , maker of the BlackBerry mobile
communications device, is seeking to register “SurfBook” as a
trademark, according to a  filing  with the Canadian Intellectual
Property Office.  The mark is to be used for wireless handheld units,
personal digital assistants, wireless phones, mobile phones,
cellular phones, smart phones, video phones and tablet computers
for the wireless transmission of data and voice signals,
according to the application.  When accessed yesterday, the trademark database of the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office had no filings or registered
trademarks for “SurfBook.”  One application was filed with the patent office in May
2000 to register the term “Surf Book” for “an appliance
providing access to a global computer network.” That
application, filed on behalf of a Texas resident, was abandoned
in December 2002.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, does have a tablet
computer in the works. The device will run on software developed
by the QNX Software Systems unit it acquired in April.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  HP and Oracle Resolve Litigation on Hurd Employment  Hewlett-Packard Co.  and  Oracle Corp.  said they resolved
litigation over the appointment of  Mark Hurd  as a president of
Oracle and reaffirmed the long-term partnership between the two
companies.  “HP and Oracle have been important partners for more than
20 years and are committed to working together to provide
exceptional products and service to our customers,” Cathie
Lesjak, HP’s interim chief executive officer, said yesterday in
a statement that came less than two weeks after the case was
filed.  Hurd was sued in California state court Sept. 7 by HP,
which tried to block his move. The company said working as a
president at Oracle would make it “impossible” for him to
avoid using or disclosing HP’s trade secrets and confidential
information. Hurd will adhere to his obligations to protect HP’s
confidential information while fulfilling his responsibilities
at Oracle, the companies said in yesterday’s statement.  As part of the resolution of the legal dispute, Hurd and HP
agreed to modify terms of his separation agreement from HP,
including waiving his rights to 330,177 performance-based
restricted stock units granted in January 2008, HP said in a
regulatory filing. Hurd also waived his rights to 15,853
restricted stock units granted in December 2009, HP said.  Legal experts have said that HP would be unlikely to
prohibit Hurd’s move because California’s courts favor letting
employees move freely. The theory that trade secrets will
inevitably be disclosed “won’t work in California as a reason
to prevent someone from taking a job,” Mark Lemley, a professor
at Stanford Law School who specializes in intellectual property,
said in an interview earlier this month.  The case was Hewlett-Packard Co. v. Mark Hurd, 1:10-cv-
181699, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County.  IP Moves  Andrews Kurth LLP hired two IP specialists and two patent agents
for its IP group, the Houston-based firm said in a  statement .  The new hires, all of whom joined from Atlanta’s  Morris
Manning & Martin LLP , are lawyers Robert A. Gutkin and Dr. Ping
Wang, and patent agents Petr VanderVegt Jr. and Eggerton
Campbell.  Gutkin , a litigator, has represented clients whose
technologies have included surgical lasers, cryogenic devices,
magnetic resonance imaging equipment, cellular technology, fiber
optics, catalytic converters, lubricants for dental handpieces,
gravity feed displays and smart card manufacturing.  He has an undergraduate degree from Brandeis University, a
master’s degree from the University of Chicago and a law degree
from the University of California at Davis.  Wang , who does both patent-application work and litigation,
represents clients in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology,
chemical/organic chemistry and medical device industries.  Before she became a lawyer she did research in the areas of
molecular biology, immunology, neuroscience and cancer.  Wang has a medical degree from  Kumming Medical University ,
and a law degree from Franklin Pierce Law Center.  VenderVegt  is a former patent examiner at the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office, focused on cellular and humoral
immunology.  He has an undergraduate degree in biology and a doctorate
in medical genetics from the University of Alabama at
Birmingham.  Campbell  also is a former examiner at the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office, where she handled patents in areas of nucleic
acid detection via hybridization, nucleic acid amplification
(PCR), detection of tumors/cancer via mutations, recombinant
polypeptides, human genes, and bioinformatiocs.  She has an undergraduate degree from the State University
of New York at Stony Brook, and master’s and doctorates in
biochemistry from Yeshiva university’s Albert Einstein College
of Medicine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 