-- New Jersey May Be Unable to Afford Rail Tunnel to New York, Christie Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-09-21T20:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/new-jersey-may-be-unable-to-afford-tunnel-to-new-york-city-christie-says.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
said his state may be forced to cancel an $8.7 billion commuter-
rail tunnel to New York after the federal government estimated
the project may cost as much as $5 billion more than projected.  “I don’t have the money to pay for going $2 billion to $5
billion over budget,” Christie said today during an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With  Margaret Brennan ”
in New York. “We need to examine what the real cost of that
tunnel is going to be. I like the project and think it’s good
for the region, but I can’t spend money I don’t have.”  Christie, a 48-year-old Republican who took office in
January, called a 30-day halt to new work on the project this
month to assess the cost. The conduit under the Hudson River
would serve a new station beneath Manhattan and is meant to
double the number of commuter trains that can travel to New York
during peak times.  The governor said his administration has spoken to the  U.S.
Transportation Department  about the possible overrun and he’s
willing to move ahead if the federal government assumes more of
the cost. Christie said he’ll release a plan in October to deal
with the state’s infrastructure and replenish its  Transportation
Trust Fund , the roadwork account set to run out of money for new
projects next year.  Federal Assistance  Christie’s comments come as a Monmouth University survey
released today showed 44 percent of registered voters approve of
his job performance, compared with 45 percent in July. His
disapproval among those respondents declined to 40 percent from
43 percent. The poll has an error margin of plus or minus 3.5
percentage points.  New Jersey broke ground in June on the  tunnel  to carry
trains under the Hudson River in and out of Manhattan. Officials
said the passageway would create 6,000 construction jobs and
help ease delays for hundreds of thousands of commuters.  The project is “significant and has a ripple effect on the
economy,” said U.S. Senator  Robert Menendez , a Democrat from
New Jersey and tunnel backer.  “Unfortunately, our governor is in the midst of trying to
cannibalize the state contribution to that” tunnel, he said
today in Washington during a hearing of the Senate Banking
Committee on President  Barack Obama ’s proposal to create a U.S.-
backed bank to increase infrastructure spending.  Discussed Halt  U.S. Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  and Christie
discussed the project and a 30-day halt during a telephone call
Sept. 16, said Brian Farber, a spokesman for the Federal Transit
Administration, part of the Transportation Department.  “Given that this project represents the single largest
transit investment ever made by the Federal Transit
Administration, the secretary and governor agreed to have staff
work together to further refine the estimated cost of the entire
project,” Farber said today in an e-mail.  James Weinstein , executive director of New Jersey Transit,
told state lawmakers yesterday there have been talks in
Christie’s administration of using $2.5 billion in state money
earmarked for the project to replenish the transportation fund.
Christie, at a press conference in Bayonne today, said decisions
about the tunnel and the trust fund must be separate.  ‘Worst Scenario’  “This is the worst-case scenario for a lot of New
Jerseyans,” said Zoe Baldwin, New Jersey director for the  Tri-
State Transportation Campaign , which advocates for greater
transit investment in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. “If
Governor Christie takes that money and uses it as a short-term
fix for the Transportation Trust Fund, he’s just kicking the can
down the road.”  Christie also said during the television interview that he
expects his proposals to reduce pension benefits for current
workers to pass the Democratic-controlled Legislature “within
the next 90 days,” and doesn’t expect those cuts to reduce
consumer spending.  The governor this month called on lawmakers to roll back a
9 percent benefits increase approved in 2001 and indefinitely
freeze cost-of-living adjustments to help reduce the state’s $46
billion pension deficit. He proposed making workers cover 30
percent of their health-care costs, up from about 8 percent now.  Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a West Deptford Democrat,
said he’ll block Christie’s pension proposals unless he pays
into the fund. Christie skipped a $3.1 billion pension payment
this year, saying he wouldn’t put money into a “broken”
system.  Campaign Events  The governor said in the television interview that he won’t
run for vice president in 2012, and that he’ll begin campaign
events this week for Republican gubernatorial and congressional
candidates around the country. Christie said he welcomes the
“energy” of backers of the Tea Party movement, a loose
coalition seeking to limit government spending, taxes and debt.  Christie said Republican victories in November and future
elections depend on “sticking to principles” that include
reduced spending, less government regulation and lower taxes.  The governor, in a radio interview yesterday on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene , said he intends to reduce New
Jersey’s income taxes within two years to stimulate the economy.  Christie said today in Bayonne that New Jersey “is the
failed experiment of the last decade” because its income-tax
increases didn’t result in higher revenue.  New Jersey faces a $10.5 billion deficit next year because
of higher costs, nearly matching the one Christie closed in his
current $29.4 billion budget, the Office of Legislative Services
said in July. Christie has said that estimate, which assumes the
state funds all programs and obligations, isn’t realistic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 