-- New Zealand Growth Probably Quickened in Second Quarter Before Earthquake
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2010-09-21T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/new-zealand-growth-probably-quickened-in-second-quarter-before-earthquake.html
New Zealand’s household spending
probably helped the nation’s economic expansion accelerate last
quarter before the biggest earthquake in 80 years hit growth.  Gross domestic product rose 0.7 percent in the three months
through June from the previous quarter, according to the median
of 12 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  before the report due
in Wellington tomorrow. The economy expanded 0.6 percent in the
first quarter.  Central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  stopped raising interest
rates last week and said the Sept. 4 quake “significantly
disrupted economic activity and is likely to continue to do so
for some time yet.” Growth was probably boosted as people
bought items before the increase of a goods and services tax,
said  Helen Kevans  of JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney.  “The main driver of growth will be household consumption,
with retail sales volumes having surged 1.3 percent quarter on
quarter,” said Kevans, a senior economist. “Consumers spent
heavily in the second quarter following confirmation in May that
the government will hike the GST on Oct. 1.”  Bollard raised the  official cash rate  in June, the first
increase in three years, and said he expected to gradually
remove stimulus as exports buoy the recovery and inflation
pressures build. He increased borrowing costs to 3 percent on
July 29, while saying the economic outlook had moderated.  Local Currency  New Zealand’s dollar fell this week to the lowest level in
almost five months against Australia’s currency on speculation
the larger nation’s central bank will increase rates, while
Bollard will keep them unchanged. The so-called kiwi touched
NZ$1.3015 on Sept. 21, the weakest since April 23.  Two of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg after last
week’s decision forecast Bollard would move again this year.
There is a 2 percent chance of a quarter-point increase at the
Oct. 28 review, according to a Credit Suisse  index  based on
swaps trading.  Ian Morrice , chief executive officer of Warehouse Group
Ltd., the nation’s biggest discount retailer, said earlier this
month that he expects that “in the medium to long term the
gradual recovery will continue, but it’s likely in the next 12
months demand will remain patchy.”  Manufacturing sales volumes slumped to a 10-year low in the
second quarter, according to a Sept. 9 government report.
Production was led lower by seafood, fruit, meat, dairy and
textiles, adding to signs that global demand for some commodity
exports has slowed.  Economic Impact  The central bank said last week the earthquake in the South
Island city of Christchurch may cut growth by 0.3 percentage
point this quarter.  The quake “shook consumers and thwarted business
production,” said  Matthew Circosta , an economist at Moody’s
Analytics in Sydney. “To shore up confidence and support
recovery in the face of coming headwinds, the Reserve Bank of
New Zealand will now leave interest rates on hold for the rest
of 2010.”  Shops and factories closed after the magnitude 7  temblor 
hit, cutting power, damaging more than 100,000 homes and
severing water and sewage lines in and around New Zealand’s
second-largest city. Rebuilding from the earthquake may stoke
economic growth, supporting the case for a resumption in rate
increases.  A preliminary analysis of the impact shows that
reconstruction will start to buoy the economy from the fourth
quarter, and may add as much as 1 percentage point to annual
average growth in the year through March 2012, according to the
central bank.  Prime Minister  John Key ’s government will also deliver a
boost to the economy with income tax cuts on Oct. 1 that will
match the increase in sales tax.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael J. Munoz  in Hong Kong at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  