-- New York City Freezes Hiring as It Seeks $2 Billion of Savings to Cut Gap
-- B y   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-09-21T19:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/new-york-city-freezes-hiring-as-it-seeks-2-billion-of-savings-to-cut-gap.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
ordered agencies to freeze hiring until they receive his
approval for spending cuts totaling $2 billion during the next
21 months.  The directive comes as the mayor anticipates a $3.3 billion
budget gap for the 2012 fiscal year that begins July 1. He told
officials to seek savings of about $800 million in the remaining
nine months of this fiscal year and $1.2 billion in 2012.  Although the city’s unemployment rate has declined seven
months in a row and job growth has outpaced the U.S. and state,
tax revenue is more than $4 billion below prerecession levels,
forcing the cutbacks, Bloomberg said.  “Since almost 60 percent of city spending goes toward
labor costs, including pension and health-care contributions,
the city must immediately take steps to rein in spending,” he
said in a letter today to agency heads.  Bloomberg said in the letter that he wants public-safety
agencies and schools to cut spending 2.7 percent and all other
agencies to trim 5.4 percent. The following year, the targets
rise to 4 percent and 8 percent, respectively.  ‘Bare Bones’  Positions immediately affecting public health and safety,
and those that generate revenue, such as ticket writers and
violation issuers, are unaffected by the freeze.  The hiring pause will last, the mayor said at a Manhattan
news conference, “until we solve our budget problems, and that
ain’t going to be short-term.”  Lillian Roberts , who represents 125,000 city workers as
executive director of  District Council 37  of the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, said most
agencies already contend with “bare-bones staffing.” The mayor
“needs to put a freeze on outside contracts that prop up
private consultants,” she said.  Budget Director  Mark Page  sent a separate letter today
asking agency heads to submit cost-saving plans for the current
and next fiscal years by Oct. 8. “Once the savings program is
in place, we will review the necessity of maintaining the hiring
freeze on an agency-by-agency basis,” Page wrote.  Closing Gaps  This is the ninth time in the past three-and-half years
City Hall has requested plans to close budget gaps, according to
Bloomberg.  On June 29, New York’s City Council approved a $63.1
billion budget for fiscal 2011, balanced mostly by carrying over
a $3.6 billion surplus from fiscal 2010.  In July, Bloomberg announced plans to save as much as $500
million using shared computer networks, consolidated vehicle
fleets, reduced office space and better collection of fines and
taxes.  In June, Bloomberg projected deficits would rise to $4
billion in 2013 and $4.8 billion in 2014. He said then that the
city would have to cut its payroll, possibly by hundreds. The
city’s headcount was 302,436 in May, the most recent tally
available, said mayoral spokesman  Marc Lavorgna .  “It’s hard to see us continue with a workforce this
size,” the mayor said.  New York City’s jobless rate stayed at 9.4 percent in
August after seven consecutive monthly decreases, the state
 Department of Labor  said on Sept. 16.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  -- Editors:  Stephen Merelman ,  Stacie Servetah   To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 