-- News Corp.'s MySpace Is Undergoing `Dramatic Remake'
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-09-21T20:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/news-corp-s-myspace-is-undergoing-dramatic-remake-update1-.html
MySpace, the social-networking
website, is undergoing a “dramatic remake” to increase its
appeal to younger users,  News Corp. ’s chief digital officer
said.  “Compared to now, it will look, feel and operate
completely different,”  Jonathan Miller  said today at
TheWrap.com’s conference in Los Angeles. “This is a full-on
relaunch, and it will jar some people and excite others.”  MySpace is planning new features to revive user traffic
after falling behind Facebook Inc. in worldwide users in April
2008. The unprofitable site has struggled with management
turnover since News Corp.  bought  it for $580 million in 2005.
Miller said the new design will “take MySpace back to its roots
of music, discovery and self-expression.  “It got away from that and the experience degraded,”
Miller said. Referring to user traffic, he said “the new site
will not be for everyone, and initially it will go down, but we
expect that it will go back up again over time.”  Miller said he hopes Beverly Hills, California-based
MySpace will be  profitable  before the end of News Corp.’s fiscal
year on June 30, 2011. The New York-based company is engaged in
“productive” talks with  Google Inc.  about a new search deal
for MySpace and a range of content that News Corp. could provide
the search engine, he said.  The company views a deal with  Apple Inc.  to rent TV shows
for 99 cents as on “somewhat of a test basis,” Miller said.  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch , fell 17 cents to $13.82 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have gained
1 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 