-- Nigeria's Central Bank Likely to Leave Benchmark Rate at 6%, Analysts Say
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2010-09-21T11:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/nigeria-s-central-bank-likely-to-leave-benchmark-rate-at-6-analysts-say.html
Nigeria’s central bank will
probably leave its benchmark interest rate at 6 percent today as
the West African country focuses on revamping the banking
industry, a survey of analysts showed.  The monetary policy rate will remain at 6 percent,
according to four of five economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
main lending rate to commercial banks will stay at 8 percent and
the borrowing rate at 1 percent, they said. The other analyst
forecast a rate increase of as much as half a percentage point.
The bank will announce the decision after 2:30 p.m. today.  “The central bank has made it clear that its priority is
getting the banking sector back to health and this is still a
work in progress,” said Alan Cameron, an analyst at U.K.-based
Business Monitor International.  President  Goodluck Jonathan  signed a bill into law on July
19 that created a company that will buy back debts from the
country’s lenders following last year’s banking crisis. The
Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria will clear $10 billion of
toxic assets from the system this year, at a cost of about $5
billion, central bank Governor  Lamido Sanusi  said on July 1.  The central bank sacked the chief executive officers of
eight of the country’s 24 lenders last year over their handling
of the debt crisis and injected 620 billion naira ($4.1 billion)
into them to prevent a financial collapse.  Nigeria’s economy, the second-largest in sub-Saharan Africa
after South Africa, expanded 7.7 percent in the second quarter,
compared with 7.2 percent in the previous three months, driven
by the non-oil industries,  Labaran Maku , minister of state for
information, said on July 28.  Nigeria is the continent’s top oil producer and the fifth-
largest supplier of U.S. crude imports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net . 