-- Nokia Falls on Elop's First Day as CEO on N8 Delay Speculation
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-09-21T16:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/nokia-tumbles-on-elop-s-first-day-as-ceo-amid-speculation-on-n8-smartphone.html
Nokia Oyj  shares tumbled on Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Elop ’s first day in the job on reports
the world’s biggest maker of mobile phones is delaying shipment
of the N8, its newest flagship smartphone.  The touchscreen N8 is the latest effort by Nokia to win
back market share from  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and devices based on
 Google Inc. ’s Android. Nokia may push back shipment because of
software glitches, online industry websites Electronista and
Endgadget reported. Nokia denied this, and spokesman  Doug Dawson 
said the N8 will be shipped by month-end, as planned.  “This is the flagship model, and if there are software
bugs it doesn’t augur well for what this platform can deliver,”
said  Lee Simpson , an analyst at Jefferies Intl Ltd. in London.
“Timely product launches are such a chronic problem for Nokia.
It has all the components but its execution is woeful.”  With handsets that haven’t caught up to Apple’s three-year-
old iPhone, even after schedule delays, new CEO Elop has to get
the devices division churning out products more quickly. Nokia
shares  have sunk  more than 60 percent since Apple unveiled the
iPhone in June 2007 and Nokia’s piece of the smartphone market,
the industry’s fastest-growing part, shrank.  The struggle to develop a smartphone with the same mass
appeal forced Espoo, Finland-based Nokia to cut prices,
sacrificing profits to defend its market share.  Nokia slid  closed 4.5 percent lower in Helsinki at 7.5
euros, its biggest drop in more than three months.  Profit Targets  Nokia said in July that the operating margin in devices
could fall as low as 7 percent in the third quarter as it
prepared to release the N8. The margin was 12.5 percent last
year and 18.2 percent in 2008. In July, Nokia posted a 40
percent drop in second-quarter profit.  “If they start shipping in mid-October they can’t book
those orders in the third-quarter results, and if a few hundred
thousand units are involved, it could jeopardize third-quarter
profitability targets,” said  Michael Schroeder , an analyst at
FIM Bank in Helsinki.  Nokia showcased the N8 at its annual Nokia World event last
week, and said the new smartphone got the most pre-orders the
company has had for a product. Nokia has taken “knocks” in
past years and the N8 and other new smartphones showcased at the
London event will help to win back market share,  Anssi Vanjoki ,
the company’s smartphones chief, said at the event.  “We had targeted our online pre-order customers to receive
their N8s by the end of September,” Nokia said  on its blog 
today. “As it can take time from the beginning of shipment to
arriving at their doorstep, in full transparency, we have
advised our pre-order customers that they should expect their
new Nokia N8 in October.”  The N8  The N8 features a 12-megapixel camera, high-definition
video recording, film-editing software, navigable 3-D maps and
the ability to mirror its display on a television screen. Users
can customize their phones to display Facebook and Twitter feeds
on the top screen. They can also integrate all their social
networking into a single feed, using Nokia software or third-
party applications such as Gravity.  At 37.4 percent, Nokia has the biggest share of the
smartphones market, according to second-quarter figures from
Gartner Inc. Still, Apple and Android devices have eroded its
dominance from 45 percent a year ago, as they expanded the
market for smartphones.  Apple became identified with the transformation of the
mobile phone from a handset into an all-purpose digital
assistant, as it accumulated hundreds of thousands of apps for
everything from free phone calling to travel dictionaries and
virtual musical instruments -- nearly all from third parties.  Bad Sentiment  Nokia was slow to catch the wave. Its plethora of devices
with multiple configurations made writing apps more difficult,
time-consuming and expensive, according to developers.  Reports of the N8 delays are hurting perception again, said
 Saverio Papagno , an analyst at AZ Fund Management in Luxembourg.  “The impact of the delay isn’t that significant in terms
of numbers, but the news is negative for the sentiment around
Nokia,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  