-- Monet’s Sunlit Ponds, Lofty Cathedrals Star in Paris: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2010-09-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/monet-s-sunlit-ponds-majestic-cathedrals-star-in-paris-jorg-von-uthmann.html
To celebrate  Claude Monet  at the
 Grand Palais  in Paris, the organizers have assembled 169
canvases, loaned from 75 museums and private collections. It’s
the biggest solo show devoted to the Impressionist master.  That doesn’t mean it’s complete.  The  Musee Marmottan , Paris home to the largest Monet
holdings in the world, has refused to cooperate. The curators
there are preparing a show of their own. So you’ll look in vain
for “Impression, Sunrise,” the painting that gave the art
movement its name. (You can take solace in a couple of gorgeous
sunsets, painted in Vetheuil and London.)  Nor has Monet’s last major project -- the murals at the
 Orangerie  in the Tuileries garden -- budged. They’re just a
short stroll away.  Apart from these gaps, this is probably the richest
overview of Monet’s output you can hope to find in one place.  Thankfully, the organizers haven’t tried to be original or
to startle us with some fancy new theory. They present the
canvases more or less chronologically, grouping some of them
around particular locations or themes -- haystacks, poplars,
cathedrals, views of London and Venice.  As for the famous facade of the Rouen cathedral, the
curators have concocted a joke: They confront five versions by
Monet with five pop renditions by  Roy Lichtenstein .  The show starts with Monet’s early landscapes, the forest
of Fontainebleau, the Norman coast where he grew up and the
villages on the Seine where he later lived. He soon discovered
that he was particularly good at capturing reflections on water;
it remained one of his specialties.  Portrait of Camille  Monet was mostly, though not exclusively, a landscape
painter. The show includes still lifes, portraits, picnics,
garden parties and family dinners. The most moving of his
portraits is a deathbed image of Camille, his first wife who
died after a botched abortion.  It’s hard today to understand the vicious attacks on the
Impressionists: Le Figaro’s critic (April 3, 1876) called Monet
a “guignol artistique,” an artistic clown. The artist’s
paintings of cathedrals reminded the writer Edmond de Goncourt
of “yellow snot.”  The bland wall texts, unfortunately, are silent about the
agonizingly slow recognition of Monet’s work which, at one
point, almost drove him to suicide. Nor do they tell us anything
about his eye problems and how they coarsened his style after
1908. Only the belated cataract operation in 1923 is briefly
mentioned.  When you are halfway through the exhibition and walk down
to the first floor from the second to see the other half, you
also have reached the turning point in Monet’s life: At age 50,
in 1890, he was financially secure enough to buy the house at
Giverny, modest for a family of 10, that he had rented in 1883.
It became his favorite subject.  Three years later, he enlarged the garden, had a pool dug,
built a Japanese footbridge, which he personally painted green,
and imported exotic water lilies that obsessed him until the end
of his life.  The exhibition, which is supported by Natixis SA, opens
today and runs through Jan. 24, 2011. Information:
 http://www.monet2010.com  or +33-1-4477-8007.  ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 