-- Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index Rises to Five-Month High as Developers Advance
-- B y   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-09-21T08:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/hong-kong-s-hang-seng-index-rises-to-5-month-high-on-sun-hung-kai-earnings.html
Most  Hong Kong stocks  rose, lifting
the benchmark index to the highest close in more than five
months, as developers gained after Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd.
reported higher profit.  Sun Hung Kai , the world’s biggest developer by market value,
climbed 0.7 percent. Sino Land Co., the Hong Kong developer
controlled by billionaire  Robert Ng , climbed 2.3 percent.
Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. slumped 6 percent after the retail
partner of Swatch Group AG in China said it plans to sell
convertible bonds. China Telecom Corp. dropped 3.5 percent after
reporting slowing growth in new customers.  The  Hang Seng Index  rose 0.1 percent to 22,002.59, the
highest close since April 15, after falling as much as 0.1
percent and gaining as much as 0.6 percent. Markets will be
closed Sept. 23 for the Mid-Autumn Festival.  “We favor developers in the long run, given Hong Kong’s
economy relies on two main pillars: real estate and finance,”
said  Steve Tse , a research manager at BEA Union Investment
Management. “The 22,000 level is a key psychological barrier to
break. Given there will be a holiday this week, that’s also
holding investors back a bit and contributing to the
volatility.”  Seventeen stocks advanced for every 12 that fell in the
broader Hang Seng Composite Index. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index  of so-called H shares of Chinese companies
gained 0.2 percent to 12,193.31.  Shares also gained after Lennar Corp., the third-biggest
U.S. homebuilder, announced better-than-estimated earnings,
boosting confidence in a global economic recovery. The Hang Seng
Index has climbed 16 percent from its low for the year on May 25
amid optimism the U.S. economy will avoid falling back into a
recession and that China will ease monetary policy to spur
growth. Stocks on the gauge trade at an average 14.2 times
estimated profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 