-- Hong Kong Inflation Quickens to Fastest in 19 Months on Housing Subsidies
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-09-21T08:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/hong-kong-inflation-quickens-to-fastest-in-19-months-on-housing-subsidies.html
Hong Kong’s inflation accelerated
to the fastest pace in 19 months in August because of
distortions caused by government subsidies of public housing
rentals.  Consumer prices  gained 3 percent from a year earlier, the
government said today on its website. That compares with July’s
1.3 percent reading and the median 3.1 percent estimate of eight
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .  Inflationary pressures may increase if the economy
continues to grow “briskly,” the labor market keeps improving,
and costs rise for food and imports, the government said today.
At the same time, sustained gains in labor productivity may help
to limit price increases, the statement said.  A “softening recovery” and a likely peaking of food
costs may restrain future inflation,  Joanne Yim , chief economist
at Hang Seng Bank Ltd., said before today’s report. Yim sees
inflation slowing to 2 percent by year-end.  One-off government measures such as electricity subsidies
and waivers of property rates and public housing rentals distort
the city’s inflation numbers. Excluding such effects, inflation
was 1.9 percent last month, unchanged from July, today’s report
showed.  Hong Kong city taxis will raise their minimum fee next year
to HK$20 ($2.58) from the current HK$18, Apple Daily reported on
Sept. 9, citing the Transport Department.  Hong Kong private housing rentals rose 18.5 percent in
August from a year earlier, real estate broker Centaline
Property Agency Ltd. said today in an emailed release.
China, the major fresh food supplier to Hong Kong, reported a
7.5 percent increase in food prices in August from a year
earlier.  Hong Kong’s economy expanded a more-than-estimated 6.5
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, prompting the
government to raise its 2010 growth forecast to as much as 6
percent, from the previous 4 percent to 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  