-- Monster Backdating Case May Spur Ruling on Reporter Rights
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-09-21T16:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/monster-backdating-case-may-spur-appeal-court-ruling-on-reporters-rights.html
A former  Monster Worldwide Inc. 
executive’s appeal of a fraud conviction for backdating stock
options may wind up generating a decision on when reporters can
be forced to testify at criminal trials.  James Treacy ’s lawyers argued in the U.S. Court of Appeals
in New York today that he was denied his right to a fair trial
when the judge hearing his case limited the cross-examination of
Charles Forelle, a reporter for the Wall Street Journal.
Forelle, forced to testify by the government, told jurors about
comments Treacy made to him in an interview. The Journal’s
stories helped trigger a national stock option backdating probe.  News Corp. ’s Dow Jones unit, owner of the Journal, is using
the case to obtain a ruling that protects reporters from
government subpoenas. In a “friend of the court” brief, the
publisher said the First Amendment is threatened when
journalists are compelled to testify about their reporting. The
company wants the appeals court to spell out strict guidelines
for when federal prosecutors may call reporters as witnesses.  “This is very much a live issue in most courts around the
country,”  Jane E. Kirtley , a professor of media ethics and law
at the University of Minnesota, said in a phone interview.  The Manhattan-based appeals court, which hears appeals from
federal courts in New York, Connecticut and Vermont, has never
decided when prosecutors may compel reporters’ testimony at
criminal trials, Dow Jones told the court.  Bethany Sherman , a
Dow Jones spokeswoman, declined to comment.  On a Pedestal?  “Is he on some sort of pedestal?” U.S. Circuit Court
Judge Peter Hall asked at today’s argument, questioning why
Forelle wasn’t subjected to full cross-examination.  “It was so limiting,” another judge on the panel,  Jane Restani , said of Forelle’s narrow cross-examination. Restani
sits on the U.S. Court of International Trade and was a visiting
on the appeals court.  The  National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers , or
NACDL, backed Treacy in his appeal. The judge set a “dangerous
precedent” by curtailing Forelle’s cross-examination and
elevating his privilege over Treacy’s right to confront a
witness against him, the group says in court papers.  The court didn’t issue a ruling. Neither the NACDL’s
lawyers or Dow Jones’ attorneys were permitted to argue at the
hearing. Assistant U.S. Attorney  Deirdre McEvoy  told the three-
judge panel that the trial judge acted properly and permitted
Treacy’s lawyers to pose enough questions to establish what they
wanted to.  Truthfulness Test  “The defense was able to test the truthfulness of the
testimony,” she said.  Treacy, who was Monster’s chief operating officer, was
convicted of conspiracy and securities fraud for backdating
employee stock options to days when the share price was at or
near a periodic low, and not disclosing it in public filings.
Monster is the world’s largest online-recruiting company.  When backdated options are exercised, the holders typically
profit from the inflated difference between the market price and
the relatively low price they paid.  While it isn’t illegal to backdate options, it’s a crime
under federal law to fail to disclose such backdating,
prosecutors said. Monster’s compensation expenses were
understated by $339 million from 1997 to 2005 through the
backdating scheme, prosecutors said.  After the Journal exposed backdating in 2006 in a series of
 Pulitzer Prize-winning  stories, at least 225 companies disclosed
internal or federal investigations involving option grants.
Executives were charged with crimes at more than 10 companies,
including New York-based Monster.  Two-Year Term  Treacy, who left Monster in 2002 and is serving two years
in prison after last year’s conviction, earned at least
$6 million more than he was entitled to by backdating options,
prosecutors said.  At his trial in Manhattan federal court, prosecutors sought
to use Treacy’s comments to the Journal as proof that he lied by
saying he didn’t participate in backdating other employees’
grants. Treacy said he “had no involvement” and “didn’t
notice the favorable strike prices” at which shares could be
bought, according to the story.  Prosecutors subpoenaed Forelle, a member of the reporting
team, to verify that Treacy made the quoted remarks. Forelle
invoked the reporter’s privilege not to testify through the
newspaper’s lawyers, saying his testimony wasn’t relevant and
prosecutors had other ways to present the evidence. The
government disagreed on both points.  Judicial Compromise  U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff  struck a compromise. He
ordered Forelle to testify, while limiting both sides’ questions
to the three statements Treacy was quoted as making.  In the appeal, Treacy’s lawyers said the bar to full cross-
examination kept them from proving Treacy’s remarks in the
interview referred only to his own options, not those of others
at the company.  The judge violated the Sixth Amendment  guarantee  that
anyone charged with a crime has the right to be confronted with
the witnesses against him, his lawyers argued.  “Three narrow questions prescribed by the court were no
substitute for full cross-examination,” they wrote. “What the
Confrontation Clause guarantees is adversarial testing of the
witness’s account.”  The NACDL, representing 12,800 attorneys, agreed in its own
brief.  Clash of Rights  “In the guise of upholding the First Amendment interests
of a free press,” Rakoff’s decision dangerously erodes the
Sixth Amendment right of the accused to challenge evidence, the
group said. “Forelle’s status as a journalist did not immunize
him from challenge.”  For Dow Jones, the case is an opportunity to limit
prosecutors’ ability to summon journalists to the witness stand.
The New York appeals court has previously decided when criminal
defendants or civil litigants may force reporters to testify,
not when prosecutors may do so, the company says.  “The government should be forced to overcome a heightened
standard before it can overcome the reporter’s privilege,” the
company says.  The reporter’s privilege provides that journalists won’t be
forced to testify or disclose sources of information in court,
according to the  Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press ,
an advocacy group in Arlington, Virginia.  In federal court, it is a judge-made rule whose application
differs from circuit to circuit and depends in part on whether
the information sought from the reporter is confidential or not,
according to the Reporters Committee.  New York Rule  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York set forth the basis
for the privilege in a  1998 case , saying that litigants would
routinely “sift through press files in search of information”
if permitted. That would result in “heavy costs of subpoena
compliance” for the media, might deter sources from speaking,
and may make it appear as if journalist are part of the
“investigative arm of the judicial system,” the court said.  More recent rulings have been unfavorable to the media,
said Kirtley of the University of Minnesota, a former executive
director of the Reporters Committee. Beginning in 2003, the
federal appeals court in Chicago said in two cases that the
privilege didn’t exist.  In 2005, the appeals court for the District of Columbia
said a grand jury’s need for information outweighed any
reporter’s privilege after New York Times reporter  Judith Miller 
refused to testify about sources for a story on a Central
Intelligence Agency operative. Miller spent 85 days in jail
before agreeing to testify.  Failed Attempts  “There have been a lot of attempts to get information from
reporters and reporters have had to testify,”  Stephen D.
Solomon , a journalism professor at New York University, said in
a phone interview.  In its brief, Dow Jones said it recognizes that criminal
defendants have a right to cross-examine government witnesses,
and it warns that defense questioning of journalists may lead to
questions about unpublished or confidential information.  To avoid that, the publisher proposes that trial courts
adopt a strict rule saying when reporters can be called to
testify at criminal trials. The company doesn’t take a position
on whether Treacy deserves a new trial.  “The government must prove that the requested information
is ‘critical’ or ‘essential’ to its case and that the
information is not available from other sources,” Dow Jones
says. “Forelle should not have been forced to testify.”  Fatal Delay  Treacy’s lawyers,  Bruce C. Bishop  and  Evan T. Barr  of
Steptoe & Johnson LLP, urged the appeals court not to consider
Dow Jones’s argument. The publisher lost its chance to contest
Rakoff’s ruling by not immediately appealing it during the
trial, they say in court papers.  “Attacks on credibility are the essence of
confrontation,” Bishop said in court today.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
New York-based News Corp. and its Dow Jones division in
providing financial news and data.  The trial court case is U.S. v. Treacy, 1:08-cr-00366, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
appeal is U.S. v. Treacy, 09-3939-cr, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 