-- Montpelier CEO Harris Says Reinsurer Values Mean Opportunities for Merger
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-09-21T21:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/montpelier-ceo-harris-says-reinsurer-values-mean-opportunities-for-mergers.html
Chris Harris , chief executive
officer of Montpelier Re Holdings Ltd., said low valuations for
reinsurance companies will lead to more mergers.  Wall Street is “not showing much confidence” in
reinsurance, which has been buffeted by declining premiums,
Harris said today at a conference in Boston about acquisitions
in the business, sponsored by Macquarie Group Ltd.  Reinsurers, which reimburse insurance companies after
natural disasters and other large claims, are seeking to merge
to bolster capital strength. Competition in the industry, which
expanded after Hurricane Katrina in 2005, has pressured premium
revenue and the stocks of companies including Montpelier,
Everest Re Ltd. and Validus Holdings Ltd. All three trade below
book value.  “I view it as an opportunity over the next couple of
years,” said Harris, whose Bermuda-based firm last made an
 acquisition  in 2007. Deals may allow buyers “to really emerge in
a strong position two or three years from now,” he said.  W. Marston Becker , CEO of Alterra Capital Holdings Ltd., a
reinsurer also based in Bermuda, said that new interest in
reinsurance companies by private equity firms showed that deals
were gaining momentum.  He pointed to a bid for Brit Insurance Holdings NV, an
Amsterdam-based reinsurer, by Apollo Global Management and CVC
Capital Partners Ltd., which have made an 871 million-pound
($1.4 billion) offer.  Valuations Low  Dean Evans, an analyst at KBW Inc., said in an interview
that potential buyers are hindered by low valuations of their
own shares.  Clients and investors prefer carriers with large capital
bases, Becker said in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York
headquarters in May. Alterra was formed in May by a merger of
two other reinsurers.  Equity ranging from $2 billion to $3 billion is needed, he
said. Eleven carriers tracked by the Association of Bermuda
Insurers and Reinsurers ended 2009 with equity of less than $2
billion, according to  data  from the group.  PartnerRe Ltd., a Bermuda-based insurer,  acquired  Paris Re
Holdings Ltd. in Europe’s biggest reinsurance takeover of 2009.
Validus Holdings Ltd.  acquired  IPC Holdings Ltd. for $1.73
billion in 2009, after outbidding Max Capital Group Ltd. and
Flagstone Reinsurance Ltd.  Max later merged with Bermuda-based reinsurance rival
Harbor Point Ltd. in May, forming Alterra. The new company has
almost $3 billion in shareholders’  equity .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 