-- Moody's Upgrade Spurs Chinchilla to First Costa Rica Bond Sale Since 2004
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2010-09-21T17:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/moody-s-upgrade-spurs-chinchilla-to-first-costa-rica-bond-sale-since-2004.html
Costa Rican President  Laura Chinchilla  said the country will take advantage of the
investment-grade credit rating assigned by Moody’s Investors
Service this month to sell bonds.  Chinchilla, who took office on May 8, said her government
is “working” on an offering after Moody’s boosted its rating
to Baa3, the same level as Brazil, from Ba1 on Sept. 9. Costa
Rican bonds surged after the change, pushing down yields on the
country’s 6.548 percent notes due in 2014 to a record low of
2.57 percent last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vice President  Luis Liberman  “is already working with the
Ministry of Finance and the central bank in order to look at the
new situation we have,” Chinchilla, 51, said in an interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York.  A sale would mark the Central American country’s first
foray into overseas markets since 2004, when it issued $250
million of the notes due in 2014. Moody’s cited Costa Rica’s
declining debt levels in becoming the first ratings company to
assign the country an investment-grade rank. Debt dropped to the
equivalent of 43 percent of gross domestic product last year
from more than 60 percent a few years ago, Moody’s said.  “We are interested in Costa Rica bonds and had been
recommending them before they were investment grade,”  Alejandro Grisanti , an analyst for Barclays Plc, said in a telephone
interview from New York.  ‘New Situation’  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings both rate the country
BB, or two levels below investment grade.  Yields on the 2014 notes have fallen 36 basis points, or
0.36 percentage point, since the Moody’s rating increase and 125
over the past five months as record-low interest rates in the
U.S. fueled demand for emerging-market debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield was unchanged today at 2.59
percent at 1:30 p.m. New York time.  “The opportunities are right” to sell debt, Trade
Minister Anabel Gonzalez said in the interview.  The difference between Costa Rican interest rates and those
in developed countries is luring money to the country, helping
make the colon the second-biggest gainer among all currencies
tracked by Bloomberg this year, said Jose Rossi, president of
the board of directors of the  Costa Rican Investment Promotion
Agency . Costa Rica’s overnight rate is 4.25 percent, compared
with a range of zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S.  ‘Very Optimistic’  The colon has jumped 12.6 percent this year, more than all
currencies except the Colombian peso, to 502.41 per dollar. The
rally has left the colon within 1 percent of the stronger end of
the central bank’s 500-to-647.25 target range, prompting policy
makers to announce Sept. 1 a plan to buy as much as $50 million
a month in the foreign-exchange market to slow the rally.  Chinchilla said her government wouldn’t consider imposing
controls on foreign capital to curb the rally and shore up
exports. She said she wants to help companies adapt to a
stronger colon and make them more competitive by improving
logistics and education and cutting bureaucracy.  “The central bank is aware of the situation,” Chinchilla
said. “Everybody is now even more clear than in the past that
competitiveness has to do with many other things and not only
with the exchange rate.”  Chinchilla, who’s in New York this week to take part in the
United Nations General Assembly, is seeking to lure $9 billion
in foreign investment over the next four years. She forecasts
Costa Rica’s $29 billion economy will grow “a little more
than” 4 percent this year and 5 percent in 2011 as companies in
the medical device and technology industries make “important
investments.”  “I feel very optimistic,” Chinchilla said. “People who
had already decided to go to Costa Rica feel very comfortable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  