-- Top Golfers Expect `Outrageous' $10 Million FedEx Cup Prize Money to Fall
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2010-09-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/top-golfers-expect-outrageous-10-million-fedex-cup-prize-money-to-fall.html
The $10 million prize that will go
to the winner of this weekend’s FedEx Cup soon may be on the
decline,  U.S. PGA Tour  players said.  FedEx Corp. , the second-largest U.S. package-shipping
company, pays out $35 million over the duration of the four-
event FedEx Cup playoffs. With several golfers in contention for
the overall title heading into this week’s Tour Championship in
Atlanta, the tournament winner could take home $11.35 million if
he also collects the FedEx Cup title bonus.  Paul Casey  and  Steve Stricker , among five players who could
capture the $10 million bonus with a win this week, have a hard
time rationalizing the payout.  “The money is outrageous,” Casey said yesterday. “It’s a
figure that I’m not too familiar with.”  PGA Tour Commissioner  Tim Finchem  said many elements in the
FedEx Cup format remain under discussion with players. He didn’t
rule out making another round of alterations to the points
structure, a formula that has twice been tweaked since the
original plan was revealed at the end of the 2006 season.  “There are a lot of opinions in this subject matter,”
Finchem said during a news conference at East Lake Golf Club in
Atlanta, where the season-ending tournament begins tomorrow.
“I’m not sure I read two opinions that are the same. We like
that. We like the debate that it generates, the interest that it
creates in the cup.”  One thing Finchem isn’t prepared to do is reduce the amount
of money being paid by sponsors.  “We wouldn’t want to go backwards,” he said. “That
wouldn’t be our intention.”  Intended or not, it might be unavoidable, players said.  Agreement Through 2012  FedEx has an agreement to sponsor the season-long points
competition through 2012. The contract expires at the same time
as the majority of the tour’s current television contracts.  Casey didn’t help Finchem’s bargaining power when asked if
it was realistic to expect prize money and spending by sponsors
to rise, or at least remain the same, after the 2012 season.  “I would be absolutely very accepting if that number went
down,” Casey said of the cup’s overall prize pool. “I would be
surprised if it didn’t. I just don’t see how we can sustain that
right now. I would have absolutely no issue whatsoever if the
purses got scaled back because of everything that’s been
happening over the last year or two.”  Late-Season Events  The FedEx Cup system, which awards points to players based
on their performances in tournaments throughout the year, was
created in part to encourage players to compete in late-season
events. This week’s finale will be contested without  Tiger Woods , the world’s No. 1-ranked golfer, for the second time in
three years.  Woods, who won the title in 2007 and 2009, didn’t finish
among the top 30 players in the points standings after the BMW
Championship two weeks ago, making him ineligible this week. He
missed the 2008 competition while recovering from knee surgery.  Finchem defined the 2010 season, in which Woods failed to
win a tournament while attempting to come back from a marital
scandal, as “eventful, interesting and terrific.”  Without Woods this week, the commissioner attempted to put
a positive light on the event.  “It’s bad news and good news,” he said. “You don’t have
the No. 1 player playing, that’s never good news. But you have
the ability for stardom to develop for other players, which is
very difficult when the No. 1 dominating player is taking up so
much of the media focus.”  Stricker, who has an endorsement agreement with the  New
York Stock Exchange , shared Casey’s view of golf’s changing
financial landscape.  “It’s really unbelievable that we’re playing for that type
of money,” Stricker said in a news conference. “I could see it
changing in the future. It’s a heck of a lot of money that FedEx
is putting up for us to play for. Should you expect that on a
year-to-year basis? I don’t think so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Buteau  in
Atlanta at   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  