-- Oracle Show’s Attendance Boosted by Travel Rebound
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2010-09-21T14:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/oracle-s-openworld-show-boosted-by-sun-users-rebound-in-corporate-travel.html
Oracle Corp. ’s OpenWorld, the
biggest convention in San Francisco, drew 11 percent more
attendees this year, bolstered by the addition of the JavaOne
conference and a recovery in corporate travel.  About 41,000 people will attend this year’s expo, up from
37,000 in 2009, said Tania Weidick, vice president of event
marketing for Redwood City, California-based  Oracle . Those
guests will spend more than $100 million on hotel rooms,
restaurants and shopping, the company said.  OpenWorld  and other technology conferences are working to
keep their events relevant amid a sluggish economic recovery and
the rise of videoconferencing. To lure visitors, Oracle relies
on the promise of hobnobbing opportunities, industry parties,
laser shows and a chance to see executives like  Larry Ellison 
speak live. A loosening of travel budgets helped make it an
easier sell than last year, Weidick said.  “There was a lot of nervousness,” she said. “Last year, we
did see less of the companies bringing a huge group to the
conference, and are seeing more of that this year.”  The convention, under way this week at the Moscone Center,
includes JavaOne for the first time. That show focuses on
technology from Sun Microsystems Inc., which Oracle  acquired 
this year. Combined, the two conferences  drew  about 52,000 last
year, though there may have been overlap between attendees.  ‘Pent-Up Demand’  Other technology conferences are growing this year, even if
some remain below pre-recession levels.  VMworld , an expo held in
San Francisco three weeks ago, drew more than 17,000 people, up
36 percent from last year. In March, Germany’s five-day Cebit
computer fair, the world’s biggest technology show, reported a
3.7 percent rise in visitors to 334,000. That’s down from about
480,000 in 2007.  New conferences also are cropping up.  Appnation , a two-day
show devoted to mobile applications, debuted earlier this month
at Moscone. The expo drew 1,250, beating its organizers’ goal of
750, said Andrew Ianni, president and event chairman for
Appnation.  “There is a pent-up demand to get out of the office after
severe budget constraints over the last couple years,” he said.  OpenWorld attendees packed the conference hall on Sept. 19
to hear the opening keynote from Ellison,  Oracle ’s chief
executive officer. Before the speech, he showed a video of his
America’s Cup sailing team.  Hurd’s Return  Another draw:  Mark Hurd ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. ’s former CEO,
who made his first public appearance since becoming an Oracle
employee. Hurd was asked to resign from HP last month after an
investigation found that he tried to conceal a relationship with
a woman who ran events for the company.  Oracle  hired him as its
president earlier this month, drawing a lawsuit from HP that was
resolved yesterday.  Oracle fell 42 cents to $27.07 at 10:22 a.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares had climbed 12
percent this year before today.  The show gives a boost to tourism, San Francisco’s biggest
industry. Every downtown hotel room in the city is booked,
according to the  Convention and Visitors Bureau . Oracle shut
down streets for the event and will host a concert on Treasure
Island featuring the Black Eyed Peas and  Don Henley . The
economic impact would represent about 1 percent of the city’s
total tourism revenue, based on last year’s total.  “We’re very proud they keep coming back,” San Francisco
Mayor  Gavin Newsom  said in an e-mail.  More Flyers  Almost a quarter of OpenWorld attendees traveled from
overseas, compared with 15 percent last year, Weidick said. The
growth is part of a broader rebound in international travel.  Passengers traveling internationally in first and business
class rose 13.8 percent in July from a year earlier, according
to the  International Air Travel Association , a Geneva-based
trade group. That outpaced the 8.8 percent gain in coach.
Premium traffic had fallen each month from July 2008 through
November 2009 as businesses crimped travel budgets.  The recession lasted from December 2007 until June 2009,
making it the longest slump since the Great Depression, the
National Bureau of Economic Research said yesterday.  Blockbuster events are still less common than the city
would like. San Francisco’s conference schedule may not be fully
booked again until 2013, said Joe D’Alessandro, head of the
 Convention and Visitors Bureau .  Both the number of San Francisco visitors and the amount
they spent decreased last year. The city hosted 15.4 million
out-of-towners, a 5.8 percent drop from 2008. Those travelers
spent $7.8 billion, a 7.8 percent decline, according to the
visitors bureau.  Oracle  acquired  Sun for $7.3 billion in January, gaining
the Java programming language. The company declined to say how
much JavaOne would have drawn separately.  All told, OpenWorld will include 8,824 events, such as
leadership seminars. Some are fully booked, and attendees had to
be turned away, Weidick said.  “We can’t accept any more due to capacity limitations,”
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  