-- Orange-Juice Futures Advance to Three-Year High on Florida Storm Concerns
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-09-21T19:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/orange-juice-futures-advance-to-three-year-high-on-florida-storm-concerns.html
Orange-juice futures jumped to a
three-year high on concern that a storm will damage Florida’s
citrus crops.  An area of disturbed weather, not yet named, in the
Caribbean is a potential threat to the eastern Gulf of Mexico,
including Florida, said Kyle Tapley, a meteorologist at MDA
EarthSat Weather Inc. in Rockville, Maryland. The storm may hit
Florida at the end of September or early October, he said.  “We’re in the period of the year where Florida has the
tendency to get hit with hurricanes,” said  Boyd Cruel , a senior
analyst at Vision Financial Markets in Chicago. Inclement
weather worldwide has been pushing up commodity prices, he said.  Orange juice for November delivery rose 9.3 cents, or 6.2
percent, to settle at $1.597 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York, the biggest gain since Jan. 8. Earlier, the
commodity surged by the exchange’s daily limit of 10 cents to
$1.604, the highest price for a most-active contract since May
2007.  Futures climbed for the seventh straight session, the
longest rally since late July. Orange juice has advanced 24
percent this year.  Independent forecaster  Elizabeth Steger  in August projected
Florida’s orange harvest will increase 15 percent, to 154
million boxes, in the coming season. Steger has been predicting
the crop since 1992, and her estimates are widely followed by
the citrus industry.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture on Oct. 8 will release
its first estimate for the harvest, which begins next month and
runs through June.  Orange juice has the fourth-biggest gain this year behind
cotton, coffee and wheat among 19 raw materials in the
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index.  Hedge-fund managers and other speculators increased their
net-long positions in orange-juice futures by 31 percent in the
week ended Sept. 14, according to government data. Speculative
long positions, or bets prices will rise, outnumbered short
positions by 8,467 contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  