-- More Executives to Face Court Reckoning as SEC Flexes New Power
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-09-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/more-executives-to-face-court-reckoning-as-u-s-regulator-flexes-new-power.html
Corporate executives are more
likely to end up in court for their employees’ misconduct now
that Congress has handed broader powers and more money to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, former agency officials
said.  Since the start of the financial crisis, lawmakers,
investors and judges have criticized the agency for giving
bosses a pass while accusing companies of wrongdoing, as in
recent cases involving Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp.
The Dodd-Frank regulatory  act  lowers the bar for filing fraud
lawsuits against individuals and authorizes the SEC to double
its spending within five years.  “The SEC is going to cast a much broader net to include
people on the edge of a fraud,” said  Steve Crimmins , a former
trial attorney at the agency who’s now at law firm K&L Gates LLP
in Washington. “There will be legions more SEC cops on the beat
and that will mean a lot more activity.”  Under Dodd-Frank, which was signed into law in July, the
SEC can sue an individual who “recklessly” aids a fraud even
if the person isn’t aware of the wrongdoing. Previously, lawyers
had to show the person knowingly assisted the misconduct. The
law also allows the agency to sue senior officers, directors or
other people directly or indirectly accountable for the fraud.  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s top enforcement official, is
scheduled to answer for the agency’s progress tomorrow before
the  Senate Banking Committee  after Senator  Ted Kaufman , a
Delaware Democrat, told him in December he was “frustrated”
that regulators hadn’t been able to prosecute more executives
and bankers.  Too Late for Crisis  While Dodd-Frank may make that easier, it may be too late
for financial crisis cases, Crimmins said. “Had these standards
been in place two or three years ago, we probably would have
seen more individuals named in cases they’ve brought involving
the financial crisis,” he said.  Generally, laws that change the substance of someone’s
rights can’t be applied to previous conduct, said  John Coffee , a
securities law professor at Columbia University. The SEC hasn’t
said whether it will try to apply the provisions retroactively.  The provisions “increase the likelihood of litigation”
with fewer quietly settled cases, said  David Kornblau , who was
the SEC’s top prosecutor from 2000 to 2005, overseeing lawsuits
against Enron Corp., WorldCom Inc. and Arthur Andersen LLP.  Regulatory lawsuits “can be potentially career-ending
issues for individuals, whereas companies mostly can find a way
to settle it and move on,” said Kornblau, who’s now an attorney
at Covington & Burling LLP in New York.  Witnesses in the Courtroom  Under Dodd-Frank, SEC litigators can now haul witnesses
into court from across the country, a power the agency has
sought for years. Previously, trial attorneys generally had to
videotape testimony of witnesses located more than 100 miles
away from the court, sometimes months before the actual trial,
instead of being able to grill them in front of a jury.  To be sure, the SEC has taken aim at some individuals for
conduct related to the financial crisis, including  Angelo Mozilo , the former Countrywide Financial Corp. chief executive
officer, whom the agency accused of misleading investors about
risks tied to the bank’s subprime mortgage holdings. Mozilo has
denied the allegations.  The agency also sued former Bear Stearns Cos. hedge-fund
managers  Ralph Cioffi  and  Matthew Tannin  in 2008 on claims they
misled clients about pending losses and redemptions. Cioffi and
Tannin were acquitted of criminal charges in November and deny
wrongdoing in the SEC’s case.  Judges have questioned whether the agency avoided pursuing
individuals in exchange for a quick resolution.  ‘Who’s Responsible?’  “When you bring this long complaint and make it sound like
there have been all these misdeeds, who’s responsible?” Judge
 Ellen Huvelle  asked the SEC at an Aug. 16 hearing in Washington
where she reviewed a $75 million settlement with Citigroup to
resolve claims the firm misled investors about its exposure to
subprime mortgages in 2007. “These things don’t happen without
individuals.”  The two executives named in the matter paid
“unimpressive” penalties, according to Huvelle. Former Chief
Financial Officer  Gary Crittenden  agreed to pay $100,000 to
settle claims he didn’t disclose the risk after getting internal
briefings.  Arthur Tildesley , the former investor relations
chief, agreed to pay $80,000 to resolve claims he helped draft
misleading disclosures. They didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing.  In the Bank of America case, U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff 
in New York rejected a $33 million accord over the company’s
disclosures about bonuses and losses while acquiring Merrill
Lynch & Co. Rakoff, who later approved a $150 million settlement
covering broader allegations, questioned why officers or
directors hadn’t been sued.  Deterrence  “We’re likely to see continued pushback from the courts and
a lot of trials in the future,” said  James Cox , a professor at
Duke University Law School. “If the SEC is serious about
deterrence, sticking it to individuals is much more important.”  Under Dodd-Frank, the SEC could avoid the courts’ scrutiny
by assessing penalties through the agency’s own administrative-
law judges rather than going to court. Administrative cases are
heard by a judge rather than a jury.  Khuzami, 54, took the enforcement division’s helm in March
2009 as the agency was being pilloried for missing  Bernard Madoff ’s multi-billion dollar Ponzi scheme and for failing to
curb financial practices that helped spark more than $1.8
trillion in losses and writedowns. He has replaced senior staff,
created specialized enforcement teams, streamlined probes and
added front-line investigators.  ‘Formidable Adversary’  “A deep and talented trial unit is critical to encouraging
defendants to settle on appropriate terms, or face a formidable
adversary in the courtroom,”  Lorin Reisner , deputy director of
the SEC’s enforcement division, said in a statement.  One source of new cases may be stock market abuse, as the
SEC attempts to show it has a grip on trading that is
increasingly fragmented and dominated by computers.
Investigators are trying to determine what happened after stocks
plummeted on May 6, temporarily erasing more than $1 trillion in
market value, in a rout fueled by waves of computerized trading.  SEC lawyers are exploring novel legal issues, including
whether traders’ algorithms should be preserved as
communications for legal scrutiny, according to a person
familiar with the matter who declined to be identified because
the probe isn’t public.  “Because there’s such pressure on the agency to bring
cases in new areas and deploy more creative theories to try to
bring cases in all these substantive areas, litigation becomes
more likely,” said Kornblau, who represents an investment bank
in the SEC’s probe of the May 6 crash. He declined to identify
the bank.  Enron and Tyco  The SEC has gone after individuals who became emblematic of
past scandals, including  Jeffrey Skilling  for his role in
accounting fraud at Enron,  Dennis Kozlowski , who was jailed for
stealing millions of dollars from Tyco International Ltd., and
 Ivan Boesky , the former takeover investor convicted of insider
trading two decades ago. Cases stemming from the financial
crisis, which may not include parallel criminal probes, may be
more difficult to prove.  “There was certainly a desire to name individuals and push
creative theories back then,” said Kornblau, referring to SEC
accounting-fraud trials he led against Enron, WorldCom and
Arthur Andersen. “But here we’re talking about totally new
products and markets where there has been very little activity
in the past. The pressure is magnified now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 