-- Sovereign Bonds Appeals to Funds in Distressed Assets as Bankruptcies Slow
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-11-02T14:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/mortgages-sovereign-debt-appeal-to-hedge-funds-as-big-bankruptcies-slow.html
(Corrects story published Sept. 21 to remove reference to
Greece default in seventh paragraph.)  Hedge funds that invest in
distressed assets are looking to put their money in mortgage-
backed securities, sovereign debt and small companies as larger
bankruptcies fade, panelists at a Golden Networking forum said.  “The kind of companies which we saw as bankruptcies in
2009 have stabilized, most of them kicked the can down the
road,” said  James Sprayregen , a lawyer for  Kirkland & Ellis
LLP , speaking today at the  Distressed Investing Experts Forum
2010  in New York.  “It’s a different type of environment right now. It does
take creativity,” Sprayregen said, adding that investors are
getting opportunities in commercial mortgage-backed securities
now.  Sprayregen advised UAL Corp., the world’s second largest
airline, in its restructuring. As a managing director for
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , he was co-head of the firm’s
restructuring group.  Debt markets are more open this year compared with 2008,
said  Jonathan Krautmann , an analyst in distressed investing for
Third Avenue Management LLC, speaking on a panel with
Sprayregen. Still, smaller and midsize companies are having a
hard time refinancing their debt at good rates, Krautmann said.  “Small companies are where the opportunity is” now that
bankruptcies by large distressed companies including Chrysler
LLC, General Motors Corp. and CIT Group Inc. have been
completed, he said.  Steven Kargman , president of the restructuring adviser
Kargman Associates, said sovereign debt has also stirred more
interest following Greece’s financial travails last spring.  $1 Trillion Debt  While the default rate is expected to decline in 2010,
managers of distressed funds expect new opportunities when $1
trillion in debt comes due from 2012 to 2015, according to a
Sept. 9 report from the  Hennessee Group LLC , which advises hedge
funds. That debt will likely prove difficult to refinance, the
group said.  Hedge funds that invest in distressed companies outperform
most of their peers. Such funds are up 5.14 percent this year as
of the end of August, while hedge funds overall are up only 1.3
percent, according to a Hennessee Group index.  The only type of hedge fund to do better was the high-yield
index, up 6.57 percent. Hedge funds outperformed the S&P 500,
which declined 5.9 percent during the same period, according to
the index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 