-- Mortgage Bond Rally Centers on Least Likely to Refinance: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-09-22T04:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/mortgage-bond-rally-centers-on-least-likely-to-refinance-credit-markets.html
Investors in U.S.-backed mortgage
bonds are shifting into securities tied to debt from homeowners
who are the least willing or able to refinance as the Federal
Reserve helps keep interest rates near record lows.  Fannie Mae-guaranteed securities with 5.5 percent coupons
that are backed by 30-year mortgages with average balances of
less than $85,000 have jumped to 2.4 cents on the dollar more
than similar generic debt, according to FTN Financial. The gap
has more than doubled from 1.1 cents in late July.  Homeowners with smaller loans don’t benefit as much from a
drop in monthly payments as borrowers with bigger mortgages,
while facing similar closing costs, and are thus less likely to
refinance. Premiums for debt tied to mortgages with low balances
have generally soared to the highest since at least 2004 after
 refinancing  applications climbed to the most in 16 months.  “Prepayment protection is worth a lot more than what
you’ve seen historically,” said  Bill Bemis , a portfolio manager
who oversees about $7 billion of securitized debt at Aviva
Investors in Des Moines, Iowa. “Payups” for mortgage bonds
filled with smaller loans “have gone a little bit too far”
because it may take investors as long as two years to recoup
such premiums through the extra interest payments by borrowers
keeping their loans outstanding, he said.  Willing Fed  The Fed, which said yesterday it’s willing to ease monetary
policy further to spur growth, has helped drive down borrowing
costs by purchasing government and mortgage bonds, increasing
its assets to $2.3 trillion from about $906 billion at the
beginning of September 2008. U.S. two-year yields fell to a
record low after the central bank’s statement.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar maturity
government debt was unchanged at 171 basis points, or 1.71
percentage point, the lowest since May, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields averaged 3.512 percent, down from 3.566 percent.  The spread is narrowing at the same time as the number of
U.S. companies at greatest risk of default dropped to the lowest
level in two years, in part due to Federal Reserve efforts to
bolster the economy, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Companies rated B3, or six steps below investment grade,
with a negative outlook or below that level declined to 195 as
of Sept. 1 from a high of 288 in June 2009, Moody’s said.  Clear
Channel Communications Inc.  and  Energy Future Holdings Corp. ,
formerly named TXU Corp., were among the biggest companies on
the list.  IStar Debt  IStar Financial Inc., the commercial real estate lender
seeking to restructure some of its $8.6 billion of debt, may
seek bankruptcy protection after creditors blocked it from
amending loans. IStar expects to begin meeting with creditors in
coming weeks to discuss potential terms of a so-called pre-
packaged bankruptcy, which wouldn’t occur until sometime next
year, according to people familiar with the matter who asked not
to be identified because the plan isn’t public.  Outside of bankruptcy, the company is weighing a proposal
to extend maturities on its debt as well as a potential exchange
offer, according to two people familiar with the situation.
 Andrew Backman , a spokesman for iStar, didn’t return a phone
call or an e-mail message seeking comment.  IStar’s $501.7 million of 8.625 percent bonds due in 2013
fell 5.6 cents to 78 cents on the dollar, the lowest since
March, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Chrysler Financial Corp. plans to issue $2 billion of bonds
backed by auto loans this week in its first asset-backed
securities sale since March, according to a person familiar with
the transaction who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t public. Toyota Motor Corp. is marketing $1.29 billion of
similar debt, also slated to sell this week, a person familiar
with that deal said.  Auto Loan Delinquencies  While delinquencies are down 23 percent from a year ago,
late payments on auto loans rose to 2.1 percent in August, a 4.7
percent increase from the prior month, Standard and Poor’s said
in a report.  Debt tied to auto lending accounts for a majority of asset-
backed securities issued this year, or 53 percent of the $85.2
billion in sales, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data.  Bonds from DuPont Co. were the most actively traded U.S.
corporate securities by dealers, with 167 trades of $1 million
or more, Trace data show. The Wilmington, Delaware-based
company’s $1 billion of 3.625 percent notes due in January 2021
rose 1.2 cent from its issue price on Sept. 20 to $101.04 cents
on the dollar.  Bondholder Protection  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbed 2 basis points to a mid-price of 108.7 basis points as
of 5:23 p.m. in New York. Yesterday was the first full day of
trading after index administrator Markit Group Ltd.’s semi-
annual adjustment of companies included in the measure.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan increased 1.5 basis points to 122.5
basis points as of 8:22 a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices show.  In emerging markets, the extra yield investors demand to
hold corporate bonds rather than government debentures rose 22
basis points to 292 basis points, the highest since Aug. 31,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. index data.  Leveraged loan prices rose for a 10th straight trading day,
climbing 0.15 cent to 90.21 cents on the dollar, the highest
since May 19, according to the S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100
 index .  Mortgage Refinancing  Mortgage refinancing can hurt bondholders by returning
their money more quickly than anticipated. That’s particularly
punitive if investors paid more than face value for their
securities because of their relatively high coupons and instead
receive their principal back at par.  The  average rate  on a 30-year mortgage fell to 4.37 percent
last week, from this year’s high of 5.21 percent in April,
according to McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac. The rate
touched 4.32 percent earlier this month. Rates on loans in
Fannie Mae’s 5.5 percent bonds average about 6 percent.  The Fed has held its target rate for overnight loans
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. The
2-year Treasury note  yield  dropped 4 basis points to 0.43
percent after touching a record low 0.4155 percent.  Fannie Mae  Washington-based Fannie Mae’s 5.5 percent, 30-year
securities fetch 106.44 cents on the dollar in the so-called To
Be Announced market, where orders to buy debt can be filled with
bonds with a range of characteristics through a type of futures
contract, Bloomberg data show. That’s down from the record of
almost 108 cents on July 27, though up from 104.72 cents on Dec.
31.  Mortgage-refinancing applications rose to the highest
levels since May 2009 last month, according to data from the
Washington-based Mortgage Bankers Association. While
applications have declined, last week’s pace was more than
double the  level  at the end of 2009.  “Right now, we have some pretty dramatic concerns about
prepayments, so we’re looking at the specified pool market as an
area where you can generate excess returns,” said  Paul Colonna ,
who oversees $58 billion as chief investment officer for fixed
income at GE Asset Management in Stamford, Connecticut.  ‘Seasoned’ Debt  General Electric Co. ’s investment arm likes mortgage bonds
backed by lower-balance loans, and “seasoned” debt, which also
offers protection against homeowners falling out of the pools
after turning delinquent, Colonna said.  Aviva’s Bemis said he’s willing to pay for bonds backed by
loans made in recent months, whose borrowers “are much less
likely to want to go in anytime soon and refinance again.”  He also favors debt tied to property investors and
homeowners owing the most relative to their properties’ values
who will find it more difficult or expensive to qualify for new
loans. While the latter debt may not prepay as slowly as smaller
loans, it may cost only 0.5 cent on the dollar more than generic
securities, he said.  Some types of mortgage bonds are in “bubble territory” in
relation to the TBA market, according to  Tae Park , a money
manager in New York who oversees mortgage-bond investments at
Societe Generale SA, France’s second largest bank.  “This bubble will last as long as the refi uncertainty
continues,” he said. “It’s like when people are willing to
pay-up for bottled water, when the tap water is from an unknown
source.”  Hubbard, Mayer  In a New York Times  op-ed  this month, Columbia University’s
 Glenn Hubbard  and  Chris Mayer  proposed a new program through
which the government would direct Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and
federal agencies such as Ginnie Mae to streamline refinancing.
Hubbard, who served as chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisers under President  George W. Bush , is dean of the Columbia
Business School, where Mayer is a senior vice dean.  Higher payups “certainly illustrate the anxiety mortgage
investors are feeling about government policy,” said  Julian Mann , who helps oversee $5.8 billion in bonds as a vice
president at First Pacific Advisors LLC in Los Angeles.  Changes in the mortgage market amid the worst U.S.  housing
slump  since the Great Depression are eroding the value of some
typical characteristics investors seek for “prepayment
protection,” Mann said. Bonds of older  15-year mortgages  with
low balances, for example, are refinancing faster than First
Pacific Advisors expected, he said.  Mortgage bankers and brokers pursuing “slam dunk
approvals,” rather than spending as much time on potentially
more lucrative larger loans, are responsible, Mann said. The 15-
year debt tends to be taken out by borrowers with better means
to pay it off than 30-year loans, and pays down more quickly,
giving homeowners lower loan-to-value ratios when they seek to
qualify for a refinancing, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 