-- Moscow Mayor Luzhkov Faces Increasing Pressure to Resign on 74th Birthday
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2010-09-21T13:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/moscow-mayor-faces-increasing-pressure-to-quit-on-74th-birthday.html
Moscow Mayor  Yury Luzhkov  faces
increasing pressure to resign as he celebrates his 74th birthday
in Austria with his billionaire wife,  Yelena Baturina .  President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s administration decided that
Luzhkov must be replaced and gave him one week to step down
voluntarily, the Moscow-based newspaper Vedomosti  reported 
today, citing unidentified Kremlin officials. Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin ’s government told Luzhkov to decide within two to
three weeks what new post he would like, Vedomosti said.  Vladimir Zhirinovsky , a deputy speaker in Russia’s lower
house of parliament, said Muscovites demand Luzhkov’s ouster.
“They sought help and support from you, but instead they were
left to live out their days in poverty and smog,” Zhirinovsky
said today on the  website  of his Liberal Democratic Party.  Luzhkov, who has weathered past clashes with the federal
government, is facing his biggest challenge since becoming mayor
of Europe’s largest city in 1992. The Russian capital is a
crucial prize in any national election, and Luzhkov has
consistently delivered large majorities for Medvedev and Putin.
Russia will hold presidential elections in March 2012.  Medvedev’s spokeswoman  Natalya Timakova  declined to comment
on the Vedomosti report. Sergei Tsoi, a spokesman for Luzhkov,
also declined to comment.  National media have directed a series of critical reports
against Luzhkov and Baturina, head of development company ZAO
Inteco, during the past three weeks, accusing the mayor of
corruption and favoritism toward his wife.  Leaders ‘Pretending’  Baturina said “several functionaries” in the Kremlin had
ordered the reports to force Medvedev to fire the mayor. Her
 comments , published yesterday by Moscow-based magazine The New
Times, were confirmed by Inteco.  Putin has said nothing publicly about the attacks on
Luzhkov or media speculation about his resignation. Medvedev has
made only veiled critical remarks.  “This is an attempt to force him to make a decision that
he isn’t ready to make because there’s simply no basis for it,”
Baturina said, referring to Medvedev. “I don’t understand why
both of the country’s top leaders are pretending that nothing is
going on.”  Luzkhov is celebrating his birthday in the Austrian alpine
resort of Kitzbuhel, the Interfax news service reported.
Zhirinovsky, a nationalist politician who has run three
unsuccessful campaigns for the presidency, speculated Sept. 19
that Luzhkov wouldn’t return from his vacation.  Sergei Mironov , head of the Federation Council, the upper
house of Russia’s parliament, joined Luzhkov’s critics today,
saying that negative media reports came as “no surprise” to
Moscow residents, Interfax reported.  Mironov said “too many complaints” have built up against
Luzhkov during his tenure as mayor, the Moscow-based news
service reported. Luzhkov has been able to make unpopular
decisions because of his “unlimited power over the city,”
Interfax said, citing Mironov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Moscow at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  