-- Most Emerging Stocks Gain, Led by Chipmakers, China Consumption Companies
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-21T07:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/most-emerging-market-stocks-increase-led-by-chipmakers-china-retailers.html
Most developing-nation stocks
advanced, led by chipmakers on speculation prices will increase
and as Chinese consumer companies advanced before a series of
public holidays.  Powerchip Technology Corp., Taiwan’s largest memory
chipmaker by revenue, rose 6.5 percent in Taipei after Chairman
 Frank Huang  forecast prices will reach a bottom in the fourth
quarter.  Suning Appliance Co. , China’s biggest home appliance
retailer, climbed 3.1 percent on speculation the holidays
starting tomorrow will boost spending.  About four stocks advanced for every three that declined on
the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index , which was little changed at
1,042.91 as of 2:59 p.m. in Shanghai. Health-care and technology
stocks had the biggest gains among the 10 industry groups.  China’s “consumer stocks usually outperform the broader
market towards holidays and it’s no exception this time,” said
 Wu Kan , Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong Insurance Co.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  rose 0.1 percent, led by
consumer companies. The Chinese markets will be closed for three
days starting tomorrow, and from Oct. 1 to Oct. 7 for the
National Day holidays.  China Telecom Corp. , the country’s biggest fixed-line phone
carrier, dropped the most in almost five months after the pace
of customer additions at its wireless unit declined last month.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  climbed 0.9 percent to
extend a record high.  Philippine National Bank  led the nation’s
lenders higher after the yield used to price loans climbed to
the highest in a year.  Micex, Sensex  Russia’s Micex Index added 0.2 percent. India’s  Sensitive
Index  rose 0.3 percent, as Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. gained
1.1 percent after winning an order to set up a thermal power
plant.  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. rose 4.4 percent to a 15-month
high after the Food and Drug Administration approved the
drugmaker’s exclusive rights to sell a generic version of Eisai
Co.’s treatment for Alzheimer’s disease.  Jiangxi Copper Co.  was among mining companies that fell
after copper declined as much as 0.3 percent in London.  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai. Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Reinie Booysen   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  