-- Housing Starts in U.S. Likely Rose in August for Second Month
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-09-21T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/housing-starts-in-u-s-probably-rose-for-second-month-as-market-stabilized.html
Housing starts  in the U.S. probably
increased in August for a second consecutive month, signaling
the industry is stabilizing close to record lows, economists
said ahead of a report today.  Work began  on 550,000 homes at an annual pace, up 0.7
percent from July’s 546,000 rate, according to the  median
forecast  of 74 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Building
 permits , a proxy of future production, were little changed, the
survey showed.  A  jobless rate  at or above 9.5 percent for the past 13
months is hurting builders such as  Hovnanian Enterprises  Inc.,
short-circuiting government efforts to stem foreclosures and
revive the market by lowering interest rates. A distressed
housing market is among reasons Federal Reserve policy makers
meeting today will consider whether new measures are needed to
boost growth.  “Housing remains in basically a depressed state,”  Derek Holt , an economist at Scotia Capital Inc. in Toronto, said
before the report. “We are still in a market that is dealing
with a supply-demand imbalance.”  The Commerce Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Survey estimates ranged from 505,000 to 600,000.
Starts plunged to a record-low 477,000 pace in April 2009 after
reaching a three-decade high of 2.27 million in January 2006.  Fed Policy  The Fed’s policy-making Federal Open Market Committee is
scheduled to announce its decision at about 2:15 p.m. The
benchmark  interest rate  has been in a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
earlier this month forecast the central bank will hold that rate
until late 2011.  The central bank said in its Beige Book survey of regional
Fed banks earlier this month that there were “widespread signs
of a deceleration” in the economy from mid-July through the end
of August. Most areas of the U.S. reported “very low or
declining home sales.”  The National Bureau of Economic Research yesterday said the
recession that began in December 2007 ended in June 2009, making
it the longest since the Great Depression. The Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based group’s business cycle dating committee is
the accepted arbiter of when recessions start and end.  Sales of  new houses  dropped in July to the lowest level in
records dating back to 1963, figures from the Commerce
Department showed last month.  Credit Ended  Demand plunged after the deadline for signing contracts and
becoming eligible for a government homebuyer credit worth as
much as $8,000 lapsed April 30. The tax incentive provided
temporary relief for the industry that precipitated the
recession.  Rising foreclosures hurt prices and mean homes stay on the
market longer, hurting builders. Home seizures reached a record
in August for the third time in five months, RealtyTrac Inc.
said Sept. 16.  A lack of jobs is preventing some buyers from making
mortgage payments. The 13 months of unemployment at 9.5 percent
or higher matches the period from mid-1982 to mid-1983 as the
longest span of elevated joblessness since monthly records began
in 1948.  The Obama administration has said it plans to announce
proposals in the next few weeks for an emergency loan program
for the unemployed to avert default, and a government mortgage
refinancing effort to lower monthly mortgage payments to avoid
foreclosures.  Orders Fall  The end of the homebuyer credit, joblessness and sagging
consumer confidence prompted a decline in orders at Hovnanian,
the largest homebuilder in New Jersey said on Sept 1. The
company said its net orders dropped 37 percent in the quarter
ended July 31 from a year earlier.  “Job creation is the key to a housing recovery, which
makes it difficult to predict how improvements in the economy
and housing market play out,” Chief Executive Officer  Ara Hovnanian  said in a statement.  That may explain why shares of builders have declined this
year, while the broader market has gained. The Standard & Poor’
Supercomposite  Homebuilding Index , which includes D.R. Horton
Inc. and Lennar Corp., is down 3.5 percent so far this year
compared with a 2.5 percent gain for the S&P 500.  The builder index jump 4.6 percent yesterday, the most in
three months, after Miami-based Lennar reported better-than-
estimated third-quarter profit. Lennar is among companies
finding other ways to boost earnings as sales slump. The fourth-
largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue is cutting costs and
expanding its distressed investing unit.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net  