-- Housing Starts in U.S. Increased More Than Forecast in August
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-09-21T21:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/housing-starts-in-u-s-increase-more-than-forecast-in-sign-of-stability.html
Housing starts in the U.S.
increased more than forecast in August, outstripping a gain in
building permits that signals residential construction will stay
close to record lows.  Builders  began  work on 598,000 homes at an annual rate, up
10.5 percent and the most since April, the Commerce Department
said today in Washington. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
forecast a 550,000 pace.  Permits , an indicator of future
activity, were issued at a 569,000 rate.  Builders took out fewer applications to start single-family
homes for a fifth consecutive month, signaling a jobless rate at
or above 9.5 percent for the past 13 months is hurting companies
such as  Hovnanian Enterprises  Inc. A distressed housing market
is among reasons Federal Reserve policy makers meeting today
said they’re prepared to provide “additional accommodation” if
needed to boost growth.  “The housing market has found a bottom, and we’re
bouncing along here,” said  Thomas Simons , an economist at
Jefferies Group Inc. in New York. “The market is challenged by
supply, and until that is cleared out, it will be tough for the
homebuilders. We also need additional job creation.”  Estimates for August starts in the Bloomberg survey of 74
economists ranged from 505,000 to 600,000 after a previously
reported 546,000 a month earlier.  Builder Shares  Stocks dropped and Treasury securities jumped as investors
speculated the Fed will buy more government debt to spur the
economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent to
1,139.78 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The S&P Supercomposite
 Homebuilding Index , which includes D.R. Horton Inc. and Lennar
Corp., fell 0.3 percent. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
dropped to 2.57 percent at 5:12 p.m. in New York from 2.70
percent late yesterday.  The gain in starts was led by a 32 percent jump in
construction of multifamily units, which is often volatile. Work
began on 4.3 percent more single-family houses, which accounted
for 73 percent of the industry.  Similarly, the 1.8 percent increase in building permits
last month reflected a gain among multifamily units, which
include townhouses and apartment building. Applications for
single-family projects dropped to the lowest level since April
2009.  “Even though single-family starts moved in the right
direction, there is still weakness evident in the single-family
data,” Daniel  Silver , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
New York, said in a note to clients. “The level of starts
relative to permits indicates that the growth in housing starts
may not be sustained.”  Regional Breakdown  Three of four regions of the country had an increase in
starts last month, led by a 34 percent surge in the West and a
22 percent gain in the Midwest.  The Fed’s policy-making Open Market Committee said it’s
willing to ease monetary policy further to propel the economy
and reduce unemployment. Officials today kept the benchmark
 interest rate  in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, where it’s
been since December 2008.  The pace of the economic recovery and job growth has
“slowed in recent months,” the Fed said in its statement.  The central bank said in its Beige Book survey of regional
Fed banks earlier this month that there were “widespread signs
of a deceleration” in the economy from mid-July through the end
of August. Most areas of the U.S. reported “very low or
declining home sales.”  Home Sales  Sales of new houses dropped in July to the lowest level in
records dating back to 1963, figures from the Commerce
Department showed last month. The government is scheduled to
release August sales data on Sept. 24.  Demand plunged after the deadline for signing contracts and
becoming eligible for a government homebuyer credit worth as
much as $8,000 lapsed on April 30. The tax incentive provided
temporary relief for the industry that precipitated the
recession.  Rising foreclosures depress prices and mean homes stay on
the market longer, hurting builders. Home seizures reached a
record in August for the third time in five months, RealtyTrac
Inc. said Sept. 16.  A lack of jobs is preventing some buyers from making
mortgage payments. The 13 months of  unemployment  at 9.5 percent
or higher matches the period from mid 1982 to mid 1983 as the
longest span of elevated joblessness since monthly records began
in 1948.  Payrolls in August  Payrolls dropped in 36 states in August, indicating the
labor market will take time to rebound, figures from the Labor
Department also showed. Employers in Michigan cut 50,300 jobs
last month, the biggest drop since January 2009. Texas and
California rounded out the three states with the biggest job
losses.  Joblessness climbed in 27 states, with Nevada reaching a
record 14.4 percent rate, the highest in the nation.  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said today that
efforts to improve consumer access to mortgage information show
progress in implementing the financial regulatory overhaul
Congress passed earlier this year.  “Wherever possible, we are committed to expediting
completion of the law’s requirements ahead of statutory
deadline,” Geithner said at a Treasury Department forum on
mortgage disclosure. “Simplifying these forms is a prime
example of where we can and will accelerate our efforts to
deliver real benefits to consumers as soon as possible.”  The end of the homebuyer credit, joblessness and sagging
consumer confidence prompted a decline in orders at Hovnanian,
the largest homebuilder in New Jersey said on Sept 1. The
company said its net orders dropped 37 percent in the quarter
ended July 31 from a year earlier.  “Job creation is the key to a housing recovery, which
makes it difficult to predict how improvements in the economy
and housing market play out,” Chief Executive Officer  Ara Hovnanian  said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  