-- Pakistan Approves Duty-Free Import of Raw Sugar After Floods Damage Crop
-- B y   K h a l e e q   A h m e d   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2010-09-21T14:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/pakistan-approves-duty-free-import-of-raw-sugar-after-floods-damage-crop.html
Pakistan approved the duty-free
import of raw sugar through mills and traders to meet demand
after the worst-ever floods damaged part of the cane crop.  The economic coordination committee of the cabinet decided
today to abolish a 25 percent duty on raw sugar to facilitate
imports, Finance Secretary  Salman Siddique  said in a phone
interview from Islamabad today. There is no limit on the
quantity to be imported, he said.  Pakistan, which consumes 4 million tons of sugar a year,
needs shipments to bolster supply and reduce record domestic
prices. The government said in August it would allow the duty-
free import of raw sugar by mills. Pakistani mills crush sugar
cane from November to March.  Floods that began in Pakistan on July 22 caused $7 billion
of damage, according to Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani .
Farm output, which was forecast by the government to expand 3.8
percent in the year that began July 1, may shrink 1.7 percent
because of crop damage, Farhan Rizvi, an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Singapore, wrote in a Sept. 7 report.  The domestic price of sugar rose 38 percent to as much as
90 rupees ($1.05) a kilogram in the past month as aid workers
bought the sweetener for flood victims in relief camps, said
Farid Qureshi, general secretary of the Retailers Grocers
Association in Karachi.  The government has completed purchases of 1.2 million tons
of refined sugar for this year, according to the  Trading Corp. 
of Pakistan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Khaleeq Ahmed  in Islamabad at 
 kkhan8@bloomberg.net ;
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  