-- Palm, Soybean Oils Imports by India to Reach Record as Economy Accelerates
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-09-21T09:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/palm-soybean-oils-imports-by-india-to-reach-record-as-economy-accelerates.html
India, the top buyer of vegetable
oils after China, may import a record quantity of soybean and
palm oils for a fourth year as growing population and incomes
increase demand for processed foods, a processors’ group said.  Purchases may climb to 9.5 million metric tons in the year
starting Nov. 1, compared with 9 million tons this season,  Ashok Sethia , president of the  Solvent Extractors’ Association of
India , said in a phone interview from Kolkata today.  Higher Indian imports will help support a rally in palm oil
prices in Kuala Lumpur that have advanced 19 percent from near
an eight-month low in July. The Asian nation overtook China last
year as the biggest buyer of the tropical commodity.  “Imports will need to increase by a minimum 4 to 5 percent
annually to meet demand from a growing population in a booming
economy,” said Sethia, who is due to speak at a three-day event
in Mumbai starting Sept. 24. “Purchases can be more or less
depending on prices and the local oilseed crops.”  The December-delivery contract lost as much as 1 percent to
2,680 ringgit a ton ($864) on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange
and traded at 2,686 ringgit at 3:08 p.m. in Mumbai. Futures rose
to the highest level in more than a month yesterday.  Imports by India surged 64 percent to a record 1.07 million
tons in August from 650,603 tons a year earlier, the association
said Sept. 14. Purchases in the November-August period climbed 5
percent to 7.45 million tons from a year ago, it said.  The country, which relies on imports to meet almost half
its annual cooking fat demand, buys palm oil from Indonesia and
Malaysia, and soybean oil from Argentina and Brazil.  ‘Excellent Condition’  Incoming shipments may slow in the next three months as
growers gather soybean and peanuts crops. The crops are in an
“excellent” condition because of above-average rain, Sethia
said. High soil moisture will aid the planting of canola crop
starting next month, he said.  India’s  June-September monsoon  has been 104 percent of the
50-year average, raising water levels in 81 major dams to 125
percent of last year on Sept. 16, the Central Water Commission
data show. Farmers use this water for wheat and oilseeds sown in
October and December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  