-- Peru's Sol Rises for the First Time in Four Days as Election Concern Eases
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-09-21T19:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/peru-s-sol-rises-for-the-first-time-in-four-days-as-election-concern-eases.html
Peru’s sol strengthened for the
first time in four days as concern that investors may shun the
nation’s assets on political volatility eased.  The currency gained 0.1 percent to 2.7915 per U.S. dollar
at 3 p.m. New York time, from 2.7935 yesterday.  Results of an opinion poll by survey group Ipsos Apoyo that
showed opposition leader  Ollanta Humala  remains in fourth place
prompted local banks to sell dollars, said  Gonzalo Navarro , head
trader at Banco Santander in Lima. Alejandro Pizarro, an Ipsos
Apoyo researcher, said he couldn’t disclose the results of the
survey, which will probably be published tomorrow.  The poll and results of Oct. 3 municipal, provincial and
regional elections may show support for Humala is stronger than
previously thought, which could diminish demand for the Andean
country’s assets, Barclays Plc said in a report dated Sept. 16.  “The banks were betting there could be a surprise today
and had accumulated large dollar positions,” Navarro said. “It
seems that there wasn’t a surprise,” in the Ipsos Apoyo poll,
Navarro said.  Humala, who in his 2006 presidential campaign threatened to
renegotiate contracts with foreign mining companies, ranked
third in an Aug. 16 poll by Ipsos Apoyo. The survey of 1,200
people in 16 cities had a margin of error of 4.4 percentage
points for Lima and 2.8 percentage points overall. The first
round of presidential elections will be in April.  ‘Unreliable’  Surveys made more than two months before presidential
elections are “notoriously unreliable,” analysts at research
firm 4Cast Inc. wrote in a note to clients today. Next month’s
regional elections may be an indicator of the mood of the
country, 4Cast said.  “A huge advance of the left may scare investors away,”
the report said.  The central bank  bought  $20 million in the foreign exchange
market today, paying an average 2.7908 soles per dollar, it said
on its website. That’s the bank’s first dollar purchase since
Sept. 16.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 8.6 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2017 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 5.3 percent, according to Citigroup Inc.’s local unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  