-- Petrobras Yields Climb as Share Sale Not Enough: Brazil Credit
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-09-21T21:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/petrobras-debt-sinks-on-concern-78-billion-sale-not-enough-brazil-credit.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s  borrowing
costs are surging to a two-month high on concern the state-owned
oil company will tap the bond market for financing even after it
completes a stock sale of up to 134 billion reais ($78 billion).  Petrobras’s 7.875 percent bonds due in 2019 yield 4.65
percent, or 100 basis points more than Brazilian government
bonds that mature the same year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The gap swelled from 57 basis points on Aug. 2.  The company’s debt is lagging behind similar-rated bonds
sold by  OAO Gazprom , the Moscow-based natural gas exporter.
Yields on Petrobras’s 2019 bonds fell 99 basis points this year,
compared with a decline of 136 on Gazprom’s similar-maturity
notes.  Petrobras , which is issuing $42.5 billion of stock to the
government in return for the rights to develop 5 billion barrels
of oil reserves, will receive about $30 billion in cash from the
offering, making a return to the bond market likely, according
to Royal Bank of Canada.  “The company is still going to have to turn to the debt
market for their huge financing needs,” said  Eduardo Suarez , an
emerging-markets strategist at RBC in Toronto. “The oil they
will develop isn’t going to turn into cash for quite some
time.”  The yield on Petrobras’s $2.75 billion of 7.875 percent
notes climbed 31 basis points, or 0.31 percentage point, since
Aug. 19 to 4.65 percent yesterday, Bloomberg data shows. The
government’s 8.875 percent notes yielded 3.65 percent, up 6
basis points during the same period. Petrobras is rated Baa1 by
Moody’s Investors Service, two levels above the government.  Debt ‘Limits’  Petrobras, which lost  26 percent  of its market value this
year, posted the second-smallest profit in the second quarter
among the world’s 10 largest oil producers. It surpassed London-
based  BP Plc. , whose earnings were hurt by the Gulf of Mexico
oil spill.  Chief Executive Officer  Jose Sergio Gabrielli  said in an
April 30 interview in Sao Paulo that the company doesn’t plan to
sell bonds this year because it’s reaching the “upper limits”
of debt ratios before putting credit ratings at risk.  Petrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, will seek to raise $96
billion in debt and equity over the next five years to finance
its investment plan, said an official who declined to be
identified in accordance with company policy. The $224 billion
plan is the biggest in the oil industry.  Tupi  “They will have to go back to the debt market,” said
 Esther Chan , who helps manage $5 billion of emerging-market
assets at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in London. “Investors
aren’t very keen.” Petrobras will have to raise $114 billion in
debt over the next five years, Chan estimates.  Petrobras is seeking to finance the development of fields
such as Tupi, the largest discovery in the Americas in three
decades.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened 10
basis point to 211, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell less than one basis point to 118, according to
CMA DataVision prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements. Five-year swaps on Petrobras debt climbed to
158 basis points from 123 at the start of 2010.  The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January, the most active in Sao Paulo trading, was unchanged at
10.67 percent.  Dollar Purchases  The real gained 1.3 percent to 1.7108 per dollar by 5:35
p.m. in New York. It’s up 34 percent against the dollar since
the beginning of last year, the second-best performer among the
most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The government authorized its sovereign wealth fund to
start purchasing foreign currencies such as the dollar as part
of an effort to slow the real’s rally, the Finance Ministry said
in a statement yesterday.  Petrobras said Sept. 17 it boosted the value of its share
sale to as much as 134 billion reais from about 129 billion
reais because of higher demand. The company plans to sell 1.59
billion new preferred shares and 2.17 billion new voting shares
in its main offer on Sept. 29.  “There’s going to be enough interest for Petrobras’s
offering, so it will be able to avoid going to the debt
market,” said  Christopher Garman , the Eurasia Group’s director
for Latin America in Washington D.C. “They’re going to buy
themselves some time.”  ‘Ideal’  The company’s debt as a percentage of equity climbed to 34
percent in the second quarter from 32 percent in the previous
quarter and 28 percent a year earlier, Chief Financial Officer
 Almir Barbassa  told reporters on Aug. 13. A ratio of 25 percent
to 35 percent is “ideal,” he said.  Standard & Poor’s cut Petrobras one level to BBB-, the
lowest investment grade, in June 2009 on concern the company’s
investment plan was too big.  Milena Zaniboni , an analyst at S&P, didn’t immediately
return calls and messages for comment.  Petrobras’s bonds yields are also rising on concern the
share sale will lead to more government involvement in the
company. The Brazilian government owns a 32 percent stake in
 Petrobras  and controls the company through 55.6 percent of
voting shares. The sale will probably lead to an increase in the
government’s stake, the company said in a Sept. 3 prospectus.  “The mechanics of the transaction have a lot of people
uncomfortable because it just brings to the surface a likely
increase in the political component to the management of
Petrobras,” said Duncan Littlejohn, who helps manage $1.6
billion in global private equity funds at  Paul Capital  in Sao
Paulo. “It has taken a different dimension because the company
is going to get bigger after this offering.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  