-- Prudential Financial May Buy Two AIG Japan Insurers, WSJ Says
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2010-09-22T00:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/prudential-may-buy-two-japanese-life-insurers-cnbc-cites-wsj.html
Prudential Financial Inc.  is close
to a deal to buy two Japanese life insurance companies for $4
billion to $5 billion from  American International Group Inc. ,
the Wall Street Journal reported.  A sale of AIG Star Life Insurance Co. and AIG Edison Life
Insurance Co. will help AIG repay the more than $90 billion it
owes to taxpayers, the report said, without saying where it got
the information.  Mark Herr , an AIG spokesman in New York, and
 Bob DeFillippo , New York-based spokesman for Prudential, the
second-biggest U.S. life insurer, declined to comment.  Prudential Chief Executive Officer  John Strangfeld  has said
the Newark, New Jersey-based firm is a “buyer.” The company
may add to businesses outside the U.S., according to its annual
report. Prudential  acquired  bankrupt Yamato Life Insurance Co.
last year, adding to operations in Japan, where the company has
done business for more than two decades.  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  is selling
assets to help repay a $182.3 billion government bailout. AIA
Group Ltd., the bailed-out insurer’s main Asia unit, received
preliminary approval for a Hong Kong initial public offering
that may raise $10 million to $15 million, two people with
knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  Prudential resumed talks with AIG over the purchase of the
two Japanese insurance units after discussions stalled earlier
in the year, two people briefed on the situation said last year.  AIG is scaling back as some rivals are seeking to expand.
Prudential and Canada’s  Sun Life Financial Inc.  are adding
clients and considering acquisitions with the capital
accumulated since the financial crisis. MetLife Inc., the
biggest U.S. life insurer, agreed in March to pay $15.5 billion
for AIG’s American Life Insurance Co. unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  