-- Putin Yield Curve Widens as 2016 Debt Sale Looms: Russia Credit
-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-09-21T14:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/putin-yield-curve-widens-as-2-3-billion-debt-offer-looms-russia-credit.html
Russia’s costs to borrow over six
years in local currency relative to three are climbing to the
highest level since July 30 as the  government  seeks to sell 70
billion rubles ($2.3 billion) of securities tomorrow.  A slump in federal notes known as OFZs due in August 2016
increased the yield by 9 basis points to 7.52 percent since
their last sale on Sept. 8, while yields on bonds due in January
2013 dropped 2 basis points to 6.2 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The difference is the widest since Russia
first started selling the 2016 bonds seven weeks ago.  The growing yield gap signals Russia will have more
difficulty raising longer-term funds as inflation accelerates
and ruble swings increase. In Brazil, debt due in 2013 yields 17
basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, more than 2017 debt.
Russia is seeking to raise the second-biggest amount of funds on
record at the auction to help finance the budget deficit,
according to the Finance Ministry’s website.  “The auction for shorter maturity paper is likely to be
more successful than for 2016 bonds,” said  Nikolay Podguzov ,
head of fixed-income strategy at VTB Capital, the investment
banking arm of Russia’s second-largest bank, in Moscow. “Ruble
volatility may scare some investors away from buying long-term
debt.”  The government sold 34.6 billion rubles of July 2015 bonds
in last week’s auction, the most since January, luring investors
by offering the highest yield premium over securities trading on
the market since July, according to central bank data. The yield
was 8 basis points above the market rate the day before the
auction, the data show.  Drought Effect  The Finance Ministry plans to offer 30 billion rubles of
2013 notes at a yield of 6.15 to 6.2 percent and 40 billion
rubles of the 2016 OFZs at 7.4 to 7.5 percent, it said on its
 website today .  Russia’s worst drought in five decades pushed up food
costs, prompting the Economy Ministry to raise its annual price
growth forecast last month to between 7 and 8 percent from the
previous estimate of 6 to 7 percent. Higher yields may hamper
Russia’s effort to boost debt sales after the government raised
29 percent of the 1.2 trillion rubles it says is needed to cover
this year’s budget deficit.  Traders increased bets on a depreciation in the ruble by
the most in four months last week on concern accelerating
inflation will slow the economic recovery, as the cost of
options to sell the currency doubled.  Failed Sales  Russia is stepping up debt sales to cover a budget gap
forecast at 5.3 percent of  gross domestic product  after the
worst economic contraction last year since during Soviet rule.
The total auction of 70 billion rubles of bonds is only topped
by the 75 billion rubles offered on Sept. 1.  Konstantin Vyshkovsky , head of the Finance Ministry’s debt
department, was away from the office and couldn’t be reached for
comment. The department is scheduled to release guidance on the
yields it will offer later today.  Putin’s government failed to sell most of the OFZs due in
three years or more at weekly auctions since mid-August, as
rising food prices led traders to increase bets Bank Rossii will
raise interest rates, hurting bond prices.  Demand for the 2013 OFZs may be higher than for the 2016
notes at tomorrow’s auction as inflation and interest rate
concerns curb investor appetite for longer-term debt, according
to  Alexander Ovchinnikov , vice-president of global markets at
Moscow-based Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest investment bank.  Mexico, Brazil Spreads  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 rose, pushing the yield 4
basis points lower today to 4.637 percent. The government’s
ruble notes due November 2014 fell, with the yield rising to
6.960 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian rather
than U.S. Treasuries fell 1 basis points to 223 today, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes. Russia is rated Baa1 by
Moody’s Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade.
The yield difference compares with 162 for debt of similarly
rated Mexico and 203 for Brazil, which is rated two steps lower
at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 58 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell 1.9 basis point to
161.7 points today, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Last Auction  Credit-default swaps for Russia cost 0.6 basis point more
than similar contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels
lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis points less
on April 20.  The ruble gained 0.2 percent to 31.0599 per dollar in
Moscow trading today. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest rate differentials and allow companies to hedge against
currency movements, showed the ruble at 31.2588 in three months.  Russian consumer-price growth accelerated to 0.6 percent in
August from 0.4 percent in the previous month, pushing up the
annual inflation rate to 6.1 percent, according to the Federal
Statistics Service.  The OFZ auction tomorrow is the last sale this quarter on
the government’s schedule. The Finance Ministry has yet to
publish its fourth-quarter borrowing plan.  “There is enough liquidity on the market right now and
nothing has changed drastically over the last week so the demand
should be there,” said  Daniel Feltsman , vice-president of
international fixed-income sales at UralSib Financial Corp. in
Moscow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  