-- Putin Pledges to Keep Tax Breaks for Foreign Carmakers
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a
-- 2010-09-21T17:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/putin-courts-foreign-carmakers-with-tax-breaks-after-touring-hyundai-plant.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  told
foreign carmakers that Russia will respect existing tax breaks
as the government considers new proposals that would increase
the amount of local parts they have to buy.  “All future decisions about local production will be
balanced and will consider both the interests of the government
and investors,” Putin told a meeting today of foreign car
executives outside Russia’s second-largest city, St. Petersburg.  The proposals would extend current agreements signed with
foreign automakers between 2005 and 2008 granting preferential
duties on imported components for eight years in return for
sourcing 30 percent of parts locally, the Trade and Industry
Ministry said. Once those arrangements expire, the carmakers
would need to commit to buying 60 percent of components in
Russia within six years to get more tax breaks.  Foreign carmakers including  Volkswagen AG ,  Ford Motor Co. 
and Toyota Motor Corp. are increasing output in Russia and
rolling out new models as the country’s economy expands. The
Russian government is seeking to develop the domestic
manufacturing base by ensuring local production of car
components.  “The intention is to promote localization, to bring more
jobs, more experience of production and more technology,”
Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said in a phone interview.  Putin held the meeting after attending the opening of the
first Russian car manufacturing plant of Hyundai Motor Co.,
South Korea’s largest carmaker.  Import Duties  The new framework would extend the reduced import duties
for another eight years in return for a series of obligations in
addition to the 60 percent local-sourcing rule, Alyona
Shipilina, a trade and industry ministry official, said by
phone. These include annual production of at least 300,000 cars
within four years and investment of $500 million in expanding
existing facilities, or $750 million in new assembly lines.  The agreement would be voluntary for the carmakers, said
Peskov, who added that the government was hopeful of securing
their backing. “They all have plans to increase investments”
in Russia, he said.  Shilipina said there is continuing “discussion” with the
car manufacturers.  Volkswagen has various brands in Russia with “high and low
levels of production,” said Dietmar Korzekwa head of the
automaker’s Russia unit. “From the economic standpoint, we may
not be able to reach high levels of localization,” he told
Putin through a translator during the meeting.  Putin last month announced plans to raise taxes on imported
cars to encourage international automakers to increase
production in the country.  The government is also spending 21.5 billion rubles ($700
million) this year on cash incentives for car purchases. Russia
is following countries around the world that extended incentive
programs to reverse slumps in car sales during the worst global
recession since World War II.  Russian new car sales jumped 51 percent last month from the
period last year, spurred by the economic recovery and the
government’s cash-for-clunkers program, according to the Moscow-
based Association of European Businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net . 