-- East European Bank Sales May Increase, Raiffeisen Report Says
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2010-09-21T12:33:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/raiffeisen-sees-exit-driven-takeover-opportunities-at-east-europe-banks.html
More lenders may follow  Allied
Irish Banks Plc ’s lead and sell units in eastern Europe to repay
state aid, according to analysts at  Raiffeisen Zentralbank
Oesterreich AG  and Raiffeisen Centrobank AG.  The region’s “banking landscape offers plenty of takeover
candidates and it is a pure sellers’ market,”  Jovan Sikimic , an
analyst at Raiffeisen in Vienna, said in a statement distributed
today with a research note. “The reasons are rather exit-
driven, which will obviously put a cap on the asset pricing.”  Allied Irish said earlier this month it was selling a 70
percent stake in Poland’s Bank Zachodni WBK SA to  Banco
Santander SA  as regulators force it to bolster a balance sheet
depleted by Ireland’s economic slump. Belgium’s KBC Groep NV,
which plans an initial public offering for its minority stake in
Prague-based Ceskoslovenska Obchodni Banka AS, may also need to
increase capital, Raiffeisen said.  “The difference to past years is that minority sales are
getting more popular,” Sikimic said.  Governments in eastern Europe may also need to sell
holdings in financial institutions to plug budget deficits,
according to Raiffeisen. Poland announced plans earlier this
month to cut its stake in PKO Bank Polski SA, the country’s
largest lender, to about 25 percent from 51 percent over the
next three years.  Sales may also be spurred by the need for “massive de-
risking” by lenders such as Bayerische Landesbank and Hypo
Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG, the analysts said.  BayernLB, Germany’s second-biggest state-owned lender that
needed 10 billion euros ($13.1 billion) in fresh capital from
the State of Bavaria, said in April that it was discussing the
sale of its 89.8 percent stake in MKB Bank of Hungary with the
European Commission. Austria’s Hypo Alpe, which was nationalized
last year, plans to sell assets in Hungary, Bulgaria,
Montenegro, Macedonia, Ukraine, Italy and Germany.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Marta Waldoch  in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net 
 Zoe Schneeweiss  at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  