-- Ranbaxy Gains on Right to Sell Alzheimer’s Drug Copy
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2010-09-21T12:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/ranbaxy-has-sole-approval-to-sell-generic-aricept-in-u-s-regulator-says.html
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. , India’s
biggest drugmaker by sales, rose to the highest level in more
than two years in Mumbai after winning exclusive rights to sell
a generic version of Eisai Co.’s Alzheimer’s treatment.  Ranbaxy  rose 5.6 percent to 561.9 rupees in Mumbai, the
highest since June, 2008. The shares have gained 8.5 percent
this year. The U.S. Food & Drug Administration said  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. , which also had an approval to
sell the drug, can’t compete with Ranbaxy for 180 days. The
Gurgaon, India-based company will need a final permission from
the regulator before marketing the drug.  The drugmaker will have the sole rights to sell the generic
version of Aricept,  Eisai’s biggest  selling drug, in the U.S.,
the FDA said. The sales of the medicine in the world’s largest
drug market may help Ranbaxy add as much as $300 million in
pretax profit over six months, according to  Bino Pathiparampil ,
a Mumbai-based analyst at India Infoline Ltd.  As many as 5.1 million Americans may have Alzheimer’s, the
most common form of dementia in older people, according to the
U.S. National Institutes of Health. Drugs such as Aricept can
ease the symptoms of Alzheimer’s, which doesn’t have any cure.
The treatment generated about $3.2 billion for Eisai in the last
fiscal year, 60 percent of which came from the U.S.  Ranbaxy  may start selling the Aricept copies in the U.S.
after the patent on the medicine expires on Nov. 25, the FDA
said in a letter dated Sept. 17.  Krishnan Ramalingam , a company
spokesman, declined to comment on the approval.  An application by Teva to sell the treatment was changed
from “approved” to “tentatively approved” effective
immediately, precluding the Israeli company from competing with
Ranbaxy in the six-month period, the FDA said.  Yossi Koren , a
spokesman for Teva, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adi Narayan  in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  