-- Rattner Says Government May Recoup Investments in General Motors, Chrysler
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   D e i r d r e   B o l t o n
-- 2010-09-21T14:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/rattner-says-government-may-recoup-investments-in-general-motors-chrysler.html
General Motor Co.’s planned initial
public offering will be the “defining moment” in showing
whether automakers can repay taxpayers, said  Steven Rattner ,
former head of the U.S. government’s Automotive Task Force.  “When the dust settles, the government will get back if
not all of the $82 billion, awfully close to it,” Rattner said
today in an interview on “InsideTrack With  Deirdre Bolton ” on
Bloomberg Television. “The defining moment for people to grasp
this will be the GM IPO, because then you’ll have a stock price,
and you’ll know how many shares the government owns.”  Rattner, 58, directed President  Barack Obama ’s auto task
force from February 2009 until July last year, after GM emerged
from a bankruptcy backed by $50 billion in government aid. He
has since written a memoir of the process called “Overhaul: An
Insider’s Account of the Obama Administration’s Emergency Rescue
of the Auto Industry.”  GM, 61 percent owned by the U.S. Treasury, filed for an IPO
last month through which the government will sell some of its
common shares in the Detroit-based automaker. GM is seeking to
raise as much as $16 billion in a November IPO, people familiar
with the plans said in August. The U.S. also holds stakes in
Chrysler Group LLC and  Ally Financial Inc. , formerly GMAC Inc.  Chrysler, which the task force considered letting fail, is
“ahead of our plan” after reporting consecutive quarters of
positive cash flow, Rattner said.  Chrysler’s Future  “So far, I think we very much made the right decision,”
he said. The company’s future “depends on some new products
that haven’t come out yet.”  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of Chrysler and
 Fiat SpA , said last week that he expects the Auburn Hills,
Michigan-based automaker to hold its own IPO in the second half
of next year.  Rattner, co-founder of New York-based private-equity firm
Quadrangle Group LLC, said he would consider part-time work on
Wall Street or in public policy.  “I would like to stay involved with Wall Street at least
with part of my time; I’m not sure I want to go back 24/7 to
Wall Street,” he said. “I very much enjoyed my involvement in
public service, and while I don’t intend to go back into full-
time public service either, I’d like to stay involved in some of
these issues that I care about and hopefully that I’ve learned
something about.”  Quadrangle, which specializes in media companies, paid $12
million in April to resolve investigations by the Securities and
Exchange Commission and New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo 
into how the firm obtained an investment from the New York state
pension fund. Rattner, who no longer works for the firm, has
denied any wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 