-- RBS Said to Get Offers of Less Than $1.55 Billion for Priory
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y ,   J a c k i e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2010-09-21T10:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/rbs-said-to-get-offers-under-1-55-billion-for-kate-moss-treatment-center.html
Priory Group Ltd., the U.K.
operator of mental-health and addiction clinics being sold by
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , attracted bids of less than 1
billion pounds ($1.55 billion), said three people with knowledge
of the matter.  The first-round offers from private-equity firms including
Bain Capital LLC, Advent International Corp., Cinven Ltd. and
 Blackstone Group LP  were less than what the Edinburgh-based bank
was seeking, said the people who declined to be identified
because the talks are confidential. The asking price was about
1.1 billion pounds, said one of the people.  “The sale is still going ahead,” said Claire Gorman, an
RBS spokeswoman. “The first round of bids was completed last
week on Sept. 15 and it is still an ongoing process.”  RBS  has been selling assets including bank branches and its
credit card payment processing unit after taking 45.5 billion
pounds of U.K. government funding during the global financial
crisis, more than any other bank in the world. RBS took over
Priory, which has treated celebrities including supermodel  Kate Moss  and singer  Amy Winehouse , from ABN Amro Holding NV when it
bought the Dutch bank in 2007.  Officials at Advent, Blackstone, Bain and Cinven declined
to comment.  ABN Amro purchased the mental health care provider in 2005
from London private-equity firm Doughty Hanson & Co. for about
875 million pounds. Doughty had purchased the company in 2002
for 306 million pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  