-- Treasuries Rally After Fed Statement, Pushing Two-Year Yield to Record Low
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-09-21T20:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/treasuries-rise-pushing-two-year-yield-to-record-low-after-fed-statement.html
Treasuries rallied, pushing the
yield on the two-year note to a record low, as the Federal
Reserve said it’s willing to ease monetary policy further to
boost the economy and lower unemployment.  The benchmark 10-year note  yield  briefly pared its  drop  as
the central bank refrained today from stepping up purchases of
U.S. debt to keep borrowing costs low. The extra yield investors
demand to hold 10-year  notes  compared with 2-year securities
dropped to the lowest level in almost two weeks, reflecting
concern the economic recovery is stalling.  “The risk of economic relapse, while diminished, provides
reasons for the demand for Treasuries to continue,” said
 Christopher Sullivan , who oversees $1.6 billion as chief
investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New
York. “No immediate quantitative easing doesn’t mean they might
not act in the future if they see general price levels erode.”  The yield on the 10-year note fell 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 2.58 percent at 4:16 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625
percent security maturing in August 2020 rose 1 2/32, or $10.63
per $1,000 face amount, to 100 3/8.  The 2-year note  yield  dropped 4 basis points to 0.43
percent after touching a record low 0.4155 percent. The
 difference  between 10- and 2-year note yields fell to 2.16
percentage points, the narrowest on a closing basis since Sept.
8. The 30-year bond yield slid 9 basis points to 3.79 percent.  Record Gold  Gold futures for December delivery surged to a record
$1,290.40 an ounce. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 0.3
percent. The yen rose to the strongest level against dollar
since Sept. 15, when Japan sold its currency after it advanced
to a 15-year high.  The difference between 2-year yields in the U.S. and  Japan 
dropped to 29 basis points, the narrowest spread since December
2008, when the Fed cut its target lending rate to a range of
zero to 0.25 percent. Japan’s two-year note yield was little
changed at 0.14 percent.  The Federal Open Market Committee said in its statement
that it’s prepared “to provide additional accommodation if
needed to support economic recovery and to return inflation,
over time, to levels consistent with its mandate.”  Consumer prices excluding food and energy increased in
August for a fifth month at an annual rate of 0.9 percent,
matching the slowest year-over-year rate of gains since 1966,
the Labor Department said Sept. 17.  Break-Even Rate  The difference between  yields  on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the maturity known as the
break-even rate, was 1.82 percentage points, compared with the
five-year average of 2.11 percentage points.  “For the Federal Reserve to so openly admit that inflation
is below their mandate, this clearly signals they are concerned
about deflation,” said  Michael Cheah , who manages $2 billion in
bonds at SunAmerica Asset Management in Jersey City, New Jersey.
“At the margin, whatever was in the market’s mind about the
first tightening has to be pushed back six months to a year.”  Economic growth slowed to a 1.6 percent annual pace in the
second quarter, from 3.7 percent from January through March, the
Commerce Department said Aug. 27. The unemployment rate
increased to 9.6 percent from 9.5 percent, the Labor Department
reported Sept. 3.  ‘Clarity’ From Fed  “Until there is significant change in the economic outlook
Treasuries will stay in a range near these levels,” said  Sean Simko , who oversees about $8 billion at SEI Investments Co. in
Oaks, Pennsylvania. “The Fed has left the door open for more
quantitative easing and given the market clarity.”  A survey of money managers overseeing $1.34 trillion
conducted by Jersey, City-based Ried Thunberg ICAP, a unit of
the world’s largest interdealer broker, found that 57 percent
didn’t expect the central bank to announce more asset purchases,
while 43 percent expected policy makers to say they’re resuming
quantitative easing.  The FOMC retained its stance from last month of keeping its
portfolio stable at about $2 trillion to keep money from
draining out of the financial system.  The Fed held the target lending rate for overnight lending
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent, as forecast by all of the
81 economists is a Bloomberg News survey.  Kansas City Fed President  Thomas Hoenig  voted against the
majority for a sixth straight meeting, tying a record for most
consecutive dissents at regular FOMC gatherings since 1955. He
“believed that continuing to express the expectation of
exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for an
extended period was no longer warranted.”  August Meeting  Ten-year notes rose on Aug. 10, when the Fed said after its
policy meeting that it would keep its bond holdings level by
resuming the purchase of U.S. debt to support a recovery it
described as “more modest” than earlier anticipated. The notes
also gained after policy makers conferred in March and June,
while dropping following the January and April meetings.  The Fed has bought $28.102 billion of Treasuries since Aug.
17 to keep holdings in the System Open Market Account at about
$2 trillion by using the proceeds of principal payments from its
agency mortgage-backed securities and agency debt.  The central bank completed a program to buy $1.25 trillion
of agency mortgage-backed securities and about $175 billion of
agency debt in March. The Fed was the biggest buyer of
Treasuries when it purchased $300 billion of U.S. debt in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  