-- Treasury Two-Year Yield Drops to Record Before Federal Reserve Statement
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-09-21T11:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/treasuries-hold-two-day-gain-as-fed-may-signal-increasing-debt-purchases.html
Treasuries gained, pushing  yields 
on two-year notes to a record low, on speculation the Federal
Reserve may indicate today that it’s open to increasing
purchases of U.S. debt if economic growth slows.  Benchmark 10-year notes advanced for a third day in the
longest winning streak since July. BNP Paribas SA and Deutsche
Bank AG, primary dealers that trade directly with the central
bank, both predict 10-year note yields will fall to what would
be a record 2 percent by Dec. 31.  “A change in the wording of the Fed statement, such as
revising down growth, will prepare the ground for more concrete
action,” said  Cyril Beuzit , head of interest-rate strategy at
BNP Paribas in London. “That would support the market. We favor
the scenario for lower yields.”  The yield on the 10-year note decreased 3 basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 2.68 percent at 7:26 a.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625
percent security maturing in August 2020 rose 7/32, or $2.19 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 1/2.  The two-year note  yield  fell 1 basis point to 0.46 percent
after touching the all-time low of 0.4479 percent. The 10-year
note yield dropped to a 19-month low of 2.42 percent on Aug. 25.
The last time the 10-year note yield slid for three days in a
row was on July 30.  The Fed will leave unchanged the sentence in its statement
saying high unemployment and low inflation warrant
“exceptionally low” rates for an “extended period,” according to
54 of 63 economists in a Bloomberg News survey from Sept. 16 to
17. The central bank will hold off from expanding its balance
sheet by purchasing securities, according to 60 of 64 analysts.  ‘More Modest’  Ten-year notes rose on Aug. 10, when the Fed said after its
policy meeting that it would keep its bond holdings level by
resuming the purchase of U.S. debt to support a recovery it
described as “more modest” than earlier anticipated.  The Fed has bought $28.102 billion of Treasuries since Aug.
17 to keep holdings in the System Open Market Account at about
$2 trillion by using the proceeds of principal payments from its
agency mortgage-backed securities and agency debt.  While the central bank will announce no new quantitative
easing at today’s meeting, it will do so later if it changes
projections and forecasts rising unemployment or if financial
conditions worsen, according to Citigroup Inc., a primary
dealer.  Debt Buying View  The Fed would have to buy $2 trillion of debt in a year to
lower 10-year note yields 50 basis points from current levels,
Citigroup analysts led by  Amitabh Arora , head interest-rates
strategist in New York, wrote in a research note yesterday.  Economic growth slowed to a 1.6 percent annual pace in the
second quarter, from 3.7 percent from January through March, the
Commerce Department said Aug. 27.  Private payrolls rose last month by 67,000, more than
economists forecast, after a revised gain of 107,000 in July,
the Labor Department reported Sept. 3. The unemployment rate
increased to 9.6 percent from 9.5 percent.  The central bank will prepare investors for more purchases
of securities to keep borrowing costs low when policy makers
meet, according to  Richard Clarida  of Pacific Investment
Management Co., the world’s biggest manager of bond funds.  “The Fed’s rhetoric will get the markets ready for the
real possibility of expanding their balance sheet at a later
meeting this year,” Clarida, a Columbia University professor and
global strategic adviser for Pimco, said in a radio
interview yesterday on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  Yield Outlook  BNP and Deutsche Bank both predict 10-year yields will fall
below the all-time low of 2.0352 percent by Dec. 31. An investor
who bought today would earn 6.7 percent if the forecasts prove
correct, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Yields are still headed lower,” Deutsche Bank economists
and analysts including  Joseph LaVorgna  in New York wrote in a
report Sept. 17.  Consumer prices excluding food and energy increased in
August for a fifth month at an annual rate of 0.9 percent,
matching the slowest year-over-year rate of gains since 1966,
the Labor Department reported Sept. 17.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the maturity, has climbed
to 1.8 percentage points from this year’s low of 1.47 percentage
points reached in August. It’s still less than the five-year
average of 2.11 percentage points.  Housing starts  probably increased in August for a second
month, according to the median forecast of 74 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The report from the Commerce Department
reports is due at 8:30 a.m. New York time.  Lennar Corp. , the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue
reported yesterday better third-quarter profit than analysts
estimated. Shares rose 8.2 percent, the most since May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net  