-- Recovery Deniers Just Got Mugged by Reality: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-09-21T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/recovery-deniers-just-got-mugged-by-reality-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             This just in: The recession that
started in December 2007 ended in June 2009, according to the
official arbiter of the U.S.  business cycle .  
 That will come as a surprise to the 14.9 million
unemployed, especially the 6.2 million who have been jobless for
27 weeks or more. It won’t offer encouragement to the 1.1
million discouraged workers who stopped looking for jobs because
they don’t think there are any. Nor will it resonate with the
8.9 million who are working part-time for economic reasons --
the primary reason being, the economy stinks.  
 For the Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National
Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), designating the trough month
for the recession means just one thing: “Any future downturn of
the economy would be a new recession,” not a continuation of
the old one, according to yesterday’s  press release .  
 While most economists had already identified June 2009 as
the trough for the longest and deepest recession since the Great
Depression, the NBER committee waited for annual and quarterly
revisions to gross domestic product in July and August before
making a final determination the recession had ended. The basis
for the decision, according to the committee, was “the length
and strength of the recovery to date.”  
 The announcement was hardly a ringing endorsement of that
recovery.  
 “In determining that a trough occurred in June 2009, the
committee did not conclude that economic conditions since that
month have been favorable or that the economy has returned to
operating at normal capacity,” according to the NBER press
release. “Rather, the committee determined only that the
recession ended and a recovery began in that month.”  
 Prop Indexes  
 With the addition of Harvard’s  James Stock  and Princeton’s
 Mark Watson  in 2009, the committee started incorporating the
duo’s  proprietary indexes  -- monthly gross domestic product,
monthly gross domestic income and an average of monthly GDP and
GDI -- to complement the traditional measures (employment,
personal income, sales and industrial production) for
determining business cycle dates.  
 Employment didn’t bottom until December 2009, but the
weight of the indicators argued for a June date.  
 Yesterday’s announcement qualified as a non-event for
financial markets, economic forecasters, the Federal Reserve
policy makers who are meeting this week -- everyone, in fact,
except a handful of business cycle gurus and politicians. For
President  Barack Obama  and members of Congress, the end of the
recession will provide new fodder for claims that the stimulus
worked (Obama and the Democrats) and that the stimulus failed
(Republicans).  
 Return on Investment  
 The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act became law in
February 2009, shortly after Obama took office. Since that time,
the federal government has paid out $529 billion, according to
 recovery.gov , the website that tracks how the $787 billion is
being spent. That includes tax benefits in addition to
contracts, grants and loans, and spending on  entitlements .  
 And what do we have to show for that cool half-trillion in
spending? Not a robust recovery or a decline in the  unemployment
rate  or a renewal of consumer and business confidence or a
bottom in  housing . And it’s not for a lack of trying.  
 The poor return on investment, a metric that matters for
business, is less of a consideration for government bureaucrats.
One, it’s not their money. Two, there’s more where that came
from. So, three, maximizing the return is only important as it
affects election prospects.  
 That’s not to say the U.S. economy wouldn’t have done worse
in the short run without monetary stimulus from the Fed and
fiscal pump-priming by the federal government. The operative
words here are “short run.”  
 Crowd Control  
 In the long run (yes, we’re all dead), a dollar spent by
the government is a dollar that can’t be allocated by the
private sector. It’s not a free lunch, even if it looks that way
with the Treasury able to borrow for as little as 0.15 percent.  
 It’s not that the government is crowding out the private
sector by pushing interest rates higher. It’s that one dollar
can’t be spent by two entities in two places at one time.  
 The government filled a void in the Great Depression and
again in the Great Recession. The hole was filled and grew into
a mogul, then a mountain. It’s going to take a long time to
flatten it out again, recession end or not.  
 But hey, it may create demand for earth-moving equipment
and even a job or two for excavators.  
 ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 21 (Bloomberg) -- Lakshman Achuthan, managing director of the  Economic Cycle Research Institute in New York, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy.
     The worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended in June 2009, the National Bureau of Economic Research said yesterday, as a slowdown in economic growth raises the possibility of another slump. Achuthan talks with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television's "First Up."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Sept. 21 (Bloomberg) -- Larry Kantor, head of research at Barclays Capital in New York, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy and stocks.
     The worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression ended in June 2009, the National Bureau of Economic Research said yesterday, as a slowdown in economic growth raises the possibility of another slump. The decision came as Federal Reserve policy makers meet this week to consider whether new measures to boost growth are needed and the Obama administration proposes additional fiscal stimulus. Kantor talks with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television's "First Up." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
