-- Iceberg Aims to Double Real Estate Hedge Fund by Tapping Asian Investors
-- Komaki Ito
-- 2010-09-21T01:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/reech-cbre-aims-to-double-real-estate-fund-with-money-from-asia-investors.html

          
          
             REECH CBRE Alternative Real Estate
LLP, a U.K. manager that runs a $156 million hedge fund with a
focus on real-estate securities, aims to double its assets over
the next 12 months as it raises money from Asian clients.  
 The Iceberg Alternative Real Estate Fund has returned 15
percent annually after fees since its inception in May 2007 and
is down 3 percent through August, said  Stephen Ashworth , who
heads the London-based joint venture between money manager
 Reech AIM Group  and the U.K. unit of  CB Richard Ellis Group
Inc. , the world’s largest publicly traded commercial broker.  
 REECH CBRE is among overseas firms aiming to lure Asian
investors seeking to diversify in a region where more than half
of the hedge funds employ equity-related strategies. Iceberg
invests in U.K. and European capital market instruments ranging
from equities and debt to derivatives with returns linked to
commercial real estate, employing so-called long-short and
relative-value strategies.  
 “Asia is an area of global influence and wealth and for
our business; for the longer term it makes sense to have
relationships,” Ashworth, 43, said in an interview on Sept. 17
in Tokyo, where he was on a business trip. “The important
thing about our strategy is that direction is irrelevant.”  
 REECH CBRE began raising capital in Asia this year and has
received about 10 percent of total assets from institutional
investors in the region, said Ashworth. The wealth of Asia’s
billionaires doubled to $729 billion from a year ago, Forbes
magazine said in March.  
 Asian Capital  
 Iceberg Fund has grown to 100 million pounds ($156 million)
after starting with 8 million pounds, Ashworth said. It has a
capacity of 300 million pounds and seeks to profit from only
trading real estate securities and no physical assets, he added.  
 Relative-value methods take advantage of mismatches in the
price of various securities, and long-short strategies profit
from both rising and falling securities prices.  
 “Real estate is a very inefficient market because most
people don’t look across a whole spectrum of instruments and
they don’t have the expertise to analyze all the instruments
trading with real estate-linked returns,” Ashworth said.  
 The fund has returned 55 percent since inception in May
2007 through July, compared with a 20 percent decline in the
U.K.  index  of  Investment Property Databank Ltd. , a London-based
provider of information and research on global real-estate
markets, during the same period.  
 Investing in Asia  
 The fund’s cornerstone investments are property
derivatives such as IPD’s indexes, which allow investors in
commercial real estate to take long and short positions on an
index of total return performance, Ashworth said. It aims to
start investing in Asia as the fund size grows, he said.  
 “We will look at the Asian markets when we think the
opportunity is right to do so,” he said. “That’s a function
of first of all there being attractive opportunities and
secondly it’s a function of the amount of assets we have to
manage. The more assets under management we have the wider the
scope of our investments can be.”  
 As part of its efforts to capture money from Asia, REECH
CBRE has teamed up with  Triple A Partners Ltd. , a Hong Kong-
based provider of services to hedge funds including startup
capital, and  OGI Capital Partners Ltd. , a Tokyo-based hedge
fund, Ashworth said. Ashworth is the former head of equity
derivatives at First Chicago in London.  
 REECH CBRE also is planning to start a hedge fund called
Glacier next month, under the so-called UCITS III structure
that complies with European Union rules, Ashworth said. The
fund aims to start with capital of about 25 million euros ($33
million) to 50 million euros and will employ a long-short
strategy on property-related securities globally, he said.  
 UCITS Fund  
 The new fund aims to meet increasing demand from European
investors who want to invest in hedge-fund offerings that
comply with the Undertakings for Collective Investment in
Transferable Securities directive, Ashworth said.  
 Assets managed by UCITS III funds have increased to more
than $130 billion,  Eurekahedge Pte , a Singapore-based data
provider, said in a report earlier this month.  
 Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        