-- Reliance Gas Delay Halts India's First Fertilizer Investments in a Decade
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-09-21T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/reliance-gas-delay-halts-india-s-first-fertilizer-investments-in-a-decade.html
India’s fertilizer makers will need
to increase imports after  Reliance Industries Ltd.  fell behind
schedule to raise natural gas supply used in making crop
nutrients. The companies say the lack of gas will delay plans to
invest $5.9 billion in factories.  “We planned to set up a new plant about a year ago when we
were told Reliance would increase gas production,” said K.L.
Singh, director of technical services at the Indian Farmers
Fertiliser Cooperative Ltd. Overseas purchases may rise to 7
million tons this fiscal year as food demand rises and domestic
urea fertilizer output remains stagnant, he said.  India, the biggest importer of potash fertilizer, needs to
boost farm output to feed its 1.2 billion people. Global
population growth is driving demand for crop nutrients,
prompting  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40 billion hostile bid for Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s biggest fertilizer
producer.  “Delays in Reliance’s production have had this ripple
effect and expansion plans have been put off by a couple of
years,” said Arvind Mahajan, executive director and head of
energy and natural resources at KPMG Advisory Services Pvt. in
Mumbai. “Fertilizer plants are affected the most.”  Mumbai-based Reliance’s gas discovery off India’s east
coast in 2002 encouraged companies including the fertilizer
cooperative, known as Iffco, and  Rashtriya Chemicals &
Fertilizers Ltd.  to build six plants and reduce imports,
increasing urea capacity for the first time in a decade.
Reliance said July 27 that output at the KG-D6 block in the Bay
of Bengal, the country’s largest gas field, will be below
capacity while it reviews the reservoir and safety procedures.  Critical Component  The fertilizer companies are reducing the use of naphtha,
an alternative feedstock derived from crude oil, to make urea.
The cost of producing the nutrient with naphtha is more than
double than with domestic gas, for which the government sets the
price, currently below spot liquefied natural gas levels, and
allocates supply.  “The plants can’t be built now because without gas
commitments we can’t close finances,” Satish Chander, director-
general of the  Fertilizer Association of India , said by
telephone from New Delhi. “Gas supply is the most critical part
if imports are to be reduced.”  Using imported gas would be more expensive than domestic
supply, said Mahajan of KPMG Advisory.  Reliance’s gas is sold at $4.20 per million British thermal
units while imports from the spot market range from $5.40 to
$9.40 per million Btu, Oil Minister Murli Deora told parliament
Aug. 26.  Producing urea with domestic gas costs about $220 a ton,
less than half the $500 a ton for using naphtha, Chander said.  Stagnant Output  Each of the six plants planned by the fertilizer companies
would have an annual capacity of about 1 million tons and cost
45 billion rupees ($985 million), Chander said. Gas supply of
about 2.2 million cubic meters is required to produce 1 million
tons of urea, he said.  “Output is stagnant and we don’t have allocation,” said
Iffco’s Singh. “We are still waiting.”  J. Kohareswaran , chairman and managing director of
Rashtriya Chemicals, couldn’t be reached at his office in Mumbai
for comment.  India could end urea imports if gas is made available, the
fertilizer ministry said in its 2009-10  annual report . The
country produces around 20 million tons of urea a year and
imports 5 million to 6 million tons to meet demand, Chander said.  Reliance, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , expects
to reach capacity output at the KG-D6 field as late as 2012, at
least two years behind schedule, two people with knowledge of
the plan said July 27. Production will stay at current levels
until the reviews are complete, Reliance Chief Financial Officer
Alok Agarwal said that day, declining to give a timeline for
increasing output.  Gas Allocations  Additional inspections lasting six months are needed before
raising output by 33 percent to 80 million cubic meters a day,
the two people said at the time, declining to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak to the media. Supplies
from the field may reach capacity by the end of 2011 or early
2012, they said.  Manoj Warrier , a spokesman for Reliance, declined to
comment.  Fertilizer producers have been allocated about 15 million
cubic meters a day of Reliance’s current output of 60 million
cubic meters and power companies about 31 million cubic meters,
according to the oil ministry. The remainder goes to industries
including chemicals, steel, liquefied petroleum gas plants and
refiners.  Gas Requirement  India’s fertilizer producers will need 95.52 million cubic
meters of gas a day in the year starting April 2011, compared
with 72.76 million cubic meters this year, according to the
ministry’s report. Apart from Reliance’s supplies, gas is bought
from Oil & Natural Gas Corp., the nation’s biggest energy
explorer, and from overseas, Chander said in July last year.  India imports all the potash it needs and may use 4.55
million metric tons of the mineral salt fertilizer in the year
ending March compared with 4.38 million tons a year earlier,
junior agriculture minister K.V. Thomas told parliament April 20.  Gas production in Asia’s third-biggest economy rose 28.4
percent in 2009, the biggest increase by any country that year,
according to BP Plc’s 2010 Statistical Review of World Energy.
Output may increase to 186 million cubic meters a day by 2013
from 142 million, Oil Secretary  S. Sundareshan  said July 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 