-- Senate Republicans Block Repeal of Ban on Gays Serving Openly in Military
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-09-21T20:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/repeal-of-ban-on-gays-serving-openly-in-military-nears-senate-test-vote.html
Senate Democrats were thwarted in
their pre-election bid to pass legislation allowing repeal of
the ban on gays serving openly in the military.  The 56-43 vote was short of the 60 needed to advance a
defense measure containing the repeal. Republicans objected to
including the gays-in-military language and an immigration
provision sought by Majority Leader  Harry Reid . The bill, which
the Senate likely won’t address again until after the Nov. 2
elections, would set policy for $726 billion in defense spending
for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1.  President  Barack Obama  pledged in his January 2010 State of
the Union address to lift the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy,
and the Defense Department is conducting a review of how ending
the ban would be implemented. Reid, of Nevada, said the bill
would repeal the ban if the president and Pentagon “certify it
will have no negative effect on the military.”  Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, said that, while
she supports lifting the ban, she opposed proceeding with the
measure because Reid planned to limit the number of amendments
offered by Republicans.  “If an individual is willing to put on the uniform of our
country to be deployed in war zones like Iraq and Afghanistan,”
Americans should be expressing gratitude, “not trying to
exclude them from serving,” Collins said.  “We’re disappointed in not being able to proceed,” White
House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  told reporters, saying the
president believes the ban “is a fundamentally unfair policy.”  ‘All About Elections’  Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, criticized
Democrats’ efforts to act on the military’s gay policy and
immigration as part of the defense bill. He and other
Republicans said Reid was pushing the immigration proposal to
help spur Hispanic turnout in Nevada, where he is up for re-
election.  “This is a cynical ploy to try to galvanize and energize
their base,” McCain told reporters before the vote.  Servicemembers United , which says it is the nation’s
largest organization of gay and lesbian troops and veterans,
expressed ‘deep disappointment’’ and blamed Reid. Votes in favor
of the plan were lined up until the majority leader opted for an
“uncommon” procedure that eroded support and “guaranteed the
vote’s failure,” the group said in a statement.  Permanent Residents  The immigration provision would allow children of
undocumented immigrants who arrive in the U.S. before age 16 and
remain at least five years to become permanent residents after
graduating from high school or serving in the military.  “This isn’t the end of this,” Reid said after the vote.
Republicans “didn’t have the courage to allow us to have a
vote” on the immigration measure, he said. Reid had said last
week that even if the Senate took the bill up now, it wouldn’t
complete work on the measure until after the election.  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky told
reporters the Senate should debate the defense measure without
“all these extraneous issues.”  The defense measure sets policy for spending in separate
appropriations legislation, which includes $159 billion for the
wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. Legislation that passed the House
on May 28 contains a similar repeal of the military gay ban.  Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin , a
Michigan Democrat, said he would push to bring the defense
measure up again during a lame-duck session after the elections.  Policy Changes  The measure includes changes in policy on health care,
weapons, purchasing rules and policies toward outside
contractors in Afghanistan, he said. A failure to pass it would
mark the first time Congress hasn’t enacted a defense policy
bill in more than 40 years, Levin said.  “We wouldn’t be doing what we want to do in a whole host
of areas,” Levin told reporters.  The 1993 “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy, enacted under
former President  Bill Clinton , allows gay men and lesbians to
serve in the military only if they don’t reveal their sexual
orientation and it isn’t otherwise disclosed.  Collins said more than 13,000 troops have been forced to
leave the military under the policy. It has cost almost $200
million to train new troops to replace them, she said.  The military discharged 259 men and 169 women last year
under the law. As many as 66,000 gay men and women may be
serving in the U.S. military, about 2.2 percent of all
personnel, including 13,000 on active duty, according to a study
by the Williams Institute of the University of California at Los
Angeles School of Law.  Gates, Mullen  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and Navy Admiral  Mike Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, have said they
support repeal of the ban, though they favored the completion of
the Pentagon review first.  The review, including a survey of military personnel
attitudes on the issue, is scheduled to be finished in December.
In the meantime, Gates said in March that the Pentagon would
ease enforcement of the rules, including tightening standards
for “credible evidence” needed to open a case.  The Senate defense bill would omit funds for  General
Electric Co. ’s backup engine for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
The House voted in May for $485 million to keep the GE program
alive over the opposition of the Defense Department, which says
it isn’t needed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 