-- Republican Outside Groups Balance Out Democrats’ Cash
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-09-21T18:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/republican-groups-in-u-s-use-hidden-money-to-overcome-democrats-cash.html
Republican-leaning groups that
don’t disclose their donors are raising and spending millions of
dollars on the U.S. congressional elections, helping make up for
the party’s fundraising deficit.  Five organizations alone reported spending more than $5
million since Aug. 1 on so-called electioneering communications,
compared with less than $200,000 for Democratic-leaning groups,
 Federal Election Commission  data show. Millions of dollars in
other spending to influence the Nov. 2 elections doesn’t have to
be reported because the ads don’t mention specific candidates.  There is “much more money flowing,” said  Craig Holman  of
Public Citizen in Washington, who lobbies for stricter campaign
finance laws. “We’ve gone from full disclosure to full non-
disclosure in a short period of years.”  Republicans need the outside help. The three major
Democratic Party committees yesterday reported a combined cash
advantage of $20 million over their Republican counterparts
heading into September.  The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , the top business lobby, plans
to spend $75 million on the elections and is leading the
advertising spree for Republicans. Another group, Crossroads
GPS, and its sister organization, American Crossroads, expect to
spend $52 million.  Karl Rove , former President  George W. Bush ’s
chief political strategist, advises and raises money for that
pair, which have brought in $32 million so far.  Targeting Senate Races  The groups are mainly targeting Senate races, reports to
the FEC show.  Because the chamber is a trade group and the others, such
as  Crossroads GPS , are organized as nonprofit issue groups, they
don’t have to report donors. They can also take unlimited
contributions from corporations, unions and individuals.  “We can see for ourselves how destructive to our democracy
this can become,” President  Barack Obama  said in his Sept. 18
weekly address, the second in a month to take on the issue. “We
see it in the flood of deceptive attack ads sponsored by special
interests using front groups.”  Obama is pushing a proposal, so far blocked by Republicans
in Congress, to make such groups disclose their donors.  The organizations reported their spending because their ads
mentioned candidates within a certain window before an election,
and the $5 million figure excludes spending that was clearly
intended only for primaries. The group also includes former
Republican Senator  Norm Coleman ’s American Action Network and
Americans for Prosperity, whose sister foundation is headed by
 David Koch , executive vice president of Koch Industries Inc.  ‘Wasteful’ Spending  The  Americans for Prosperity Foundation  is separately
spending $5.5 million on ads that criticize the government’s
$814 billion stimulus program and “wasteful government
spending.” While the ads don’t mention candidates and therefore
don’t have to be reported, they are running in districts of
House Democrats who analysts rate as vulnerable to defeat this
year.  Americans for Prosperity is one of the groups Obama has
criticized by name.  “It’s pure opportunism on behalf of the left,” said Phil
Kerpen, vice president for policy at the Arlington, Virginia-
based group. “They are mischaracterizing our issue ad
campaign.”  Strategists Meet  Steven Law , the head of American Crossroads, often meets
with Republican strategists running the outside groups including
former Republican National Committee Chairman  Ed Gillespie , said
 Jonathan Collegio , a spokesman for Law’s group.  American Crossroads yesterday reported raising $2.6 million
in August, helped by $1 million donations from two Texas
businessmen,  Trevor Rees-Jones  and  Robert Rowling , and $400,000
from  American Financial Group Inc.  of Cincinnati. Millions more
flowed unreported into Crossroads GPS.  Crossroads GPS devoted more than $1 million to ads
targeting Democratic Senate candidates  Harry Reid  in Nevada,
 Michael Bennet  in Colorado,  Robin Carnahan  in Missouri and  Jack Conway  in Kentucky. Reid and Bennet are incumbents. Also,
Crossroads GPS has announced spending more than $3 million on
other ads that didn’t require reporting, including a $1 million
campaign against Boxer in California.  “It’s time we tried to counter all the activity of the
labor unions” and other pro-Democrat groups, Gillespie said in
an interview. “This year, we’ve done a pretty good job.”  Unions plan to play a big political role again this year,
primarily in get-out-the-vote efforts. In the past, Democrats
also benefited from a different set of nonprofit groups such as
Moveon.org, which in 2004 took unlimited donations, yet
disclosed its contributors.  No Reticence  While the campaign finance vehicles that are active now
were legal before the Supreme Court in January freed companies
to spend unlimited amounts from their treasuries to support
candidates, they are getting more attention.  “There is no longer any legal reticence,” said  Trevor Potter , a former FEC chairman who runs the political activities
law practice at  Caplin & Drysdale  in Washington.  Still, companies are more likely to donate behind the
scenes in the wake of the backlash suffered by Minneapolis-based
 Target Corp.  Customers and shareholders objected after the
retailer donated $150,000 to a group backing a pro-business
gubernatorial candidate in Minnesota who opposes gay marriage.  “A lot of companies feel more comfortable giving to trade
associations,” said  Larry Noble , a former FEC general counsel
and lawyer with Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in
Washington. “They don’t disclose.”  The Chamber of Commerce, whose members include drug-maker
 Pfizer Inc.  and  3M Co. , spent more than $850,000 to oppose
California Democratic Senator  Barbara Boxer  and $1 million on
ads against Florida Governor  Charlie Crist , an independent
Senate candidate vying with a Republican and a Democrat.  Chamber President  Tom Donohue  announced even before the
high court decision in January that the group would carry out
“the largest, most aggressive voter education and issue
advocacy effort” in its history, spokesman  J.P. Fielder  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 