-- Republicans Balk at Obama Tax Breaks They've Backed
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-09-21T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/republicans-balk-at-obama-business-tax-break-proposals-they-backed-in-past.html
In a  letter  to President  Barack Obama  seven months ago, 10 Republican senators led by Utah’s
 Orrin Hatch  urged him to use tax relief to bolster the U.S.
economy and create jobs.  Top on their list: extend and improve a research and
development tax credit for businesses. “We urge you to help us
enact a strong research incentive to keep us first in the
world,” the senators wrote.  Another tax break long popular with Republicans would let
companies immediately deduct the cost of capital investments. In
2008, House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio described it
as giving employers  “greater incentive to invest  and create
jobs for more Americans searching for work.”  Obama this month offered both proposals as part of his push
to spur economic growth. Now, with House and Senate elections
looming on Nov. 2, Obama’s proposals are getting a chilly
reception from Republicans. They say Obama’s plans are flawed
because he would also let the Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthy
expire and increase taxes elsewhere.  “There’s tremendous pressure on the Republican leadership,
since things look so favorable for picking up seats, not to give
the Democrats some type of advantage,” said  Lee Edwards , a
fellow at the  Heritage Foundation,  a Washington-based policy
research group that promotes limited government.  “In today’s partisan atmosphere, it’s difficult to come
together on a solution like this,” he said.  Permanent Extension  With the U.S. unemployment rate at 9.6 percent heading into
November’s elections, Obama called for permanently extending and
expanding the research tax credit at a cost of about $100
billion over 10 years.  Presidents  Bill Clinton  and  George W. Bush  during their
terms also backed a permanent extension of the tax credit, which
Congress extends only temporarily because of its high cost.  Obama additionally wants to let companies fully deduct the
cost of purchasing equipment such as tractors, wind turbines and
computers. It’s a more generous deduction than one that applied
in 2008 and 2009 that allowed businesses to deduct 50 percent of
their capital investment costs using so-called bonus
depreciation.  The president’s proposal would cost about $30 billion over
10 years, the administration estimates.  ‘Proven Incentive  The National Association of Manufacturers, headed by
Republican  John Engler , the former governor of Michigan, in July
urged Congress to extend bonus depreciation.  In a statement , the
group said it is “a proven incentive for manufacturers of all
sizes to invest in new, more efficient equipment, stimulating
much-needed economic growth and job creation.”  Bonus depreciation was a feature of stimulus measures
adopted in 2002, 2003 and 2008 under Bush, who touted its
benefits in 2006 while visiting a manufacturing company in
Cincinnati. “They’ve expanded because of the bonus depreciation
schedule,” Bush said. “The tax cuts encourage them to buy
equipment, and when you buy equipment, you expand your
business.”  Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, Obama’s Republican opponent
in the 2008 presidential contest, made both tax breaks part of
his economic plan during the campaign.  Bigger Debate  As of now, Obama’s proposals aren’t likely to get help from
congressional Republicans, who are focused on the bigger debate
with Democrats over extension of the income tax cuts enacted
during the Bush administration.  Both parties want to extend the cuts for individual income
up to $200,000 and up to $250,000 for couples filing jointly, or
about 97 percent of all taxpayers, according to data from the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service. Republicans want to keep the cuts
for those in the higher income brackets, which Obama opposes.
(To see an interactive chart of the tax debate, click  here .)  Raising taxes for the wealthiest Americans will defeat the
purpose of business tax incentives, some Republicans say.  “A permanent research tax credit and allowing businesses
to write off 100 percent of their investment in equipment are
good ideas, but any positive impact on the economy would be
crushed by tax increases on other parts of the economy,” said
Hatch in statement following a Sept. 8  economic speech  by Obama
in Cleveland outlining his plans.  “These aren’t necessarily bad proposals,” Boehner said in
a statement ahead of Obama’s speech. “But they don’t address
the two big problems that are hurting our economy -- excessive
government spending and the uncertainty that Washington
Democrats’ policies, especially their massive tax hike, are
creating for small businesses.”  Hatch Effort  Hatch sought unsuccessfully on Sept. 16 to add a measure
making the research tax credit permanent to a small business
assistance bill that passed the Senate. In blocking Hatch’s
proposal, Democrats said it would have required the overall
legislation, held up by Republicans for months, to go back to
committee.  Hatch’s move was another “in a series of delays thrown up
in front of this bill,” said Democrat  Max Baucus  of Montana,
chairman of the Finance Committee. Baucus said he planned to
bring up the research credit, which expired at the end of 2009,
later this year after lawmakers had more time to work on it.  Obama has suggested his proposals be paid for by
eliminating certain tax breaks for companies that send jobs
overseas. That has fueled Republican opposition to his
initiatives.  “If the offsets for this new package are other tax
increases, then it’s a non-starter,” Senator  Charles Grassley 
of Iowa, the  Finance Committee’s  top Republican, said in a Sept.
7 statement.  “To Republicans’ ears, a tax cut never sounds great when
it comes from a Democrats’ mouth, because they always assume
there will be a catch,” said  Jack Pitney , who teaches politics
at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  