-- Tribune Judge Tells Creditor Panel to Resolve Dispute
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-09-21T21:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/tribune-judge-tells-creditor-panel-to-resolve-law-firm-dispute.html
Tribune Co. ’s official creditor
committee must try to divide the duties of its two law firms
after its main lawyers were accused of a conflict of interest,
the judge overseeing the publisher’s bankruptcy said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin Carey  in Wilmington, Delaware,
today told lawyers with  Chadbourne & Park LLP  to meet with
creditors who claim the law firm has too many conflicts to
participate in two days’ mediation starting Sept. 26. They
should try to split mediation work between Chadbourne and the
committee’s other law firm,  Zuckerman Spaeder LLP , he said in an
order issued today.  The seven-member official committee of unsecured creditors
is divided over the $8 billion leveraged buyout that took the
newspaper and television company private in 2007.  Low-ranking noteholders, represented by Wilmington Trust
Co., want to sue fellow committee member JPMorgan Chase Bank NA
and other banks that financed the buyout. Because Chadbourne
represents some of the banks in other matters, the committee
hired Zuckerman to advise it on a potential buyout lawsuit,
according to court papers.  “Repeated allegations of conflicts have cast a shadow over
this case,” committee member Deutsche Bank Trust Co. Americas
said in court papers. Deutsche Bank and Wilmington Trust are the
only members of the committee seeking to prevent Chadbourne from
participating in the mediation.  Wilmington Trust claims the buyout was a fraudulent
transfer that left the Chicago-based publisher unable to pay its
debts and benefitted only its former shareholders and the banks.  Hearing Tomorrow  Carey scheduled a hearing for tomorrow on whether to bar
Chadbourne from representing the committee in any matters. His
order today would only apply to the mediation designed to
resolve allegations about the buyout and allow Tribune to exit
bankruptcy.  Fighting among Tribune creditors, who are owed more than
$12 billion, intensified after July 27 when a bankruptcy
examiner,  Kenneth N. Klee , released a report that bolstered the
position of lower-ranking creditors. Those creditors, including
the noteholders owed $1.2 billion, said JPMorgan and the other
buyout lenders should lose their position among the first to be
repaid because of the 2007 transaction.  Tribune filed for bankruptcy in December 2008, a year after
the  buyout  led by real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell .  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 