-- Italian Stocks Decline; Mediolanum, Pirelli, Popolare, STM, UniCredit Move
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-09-22T15:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/roma-lazio-mediobanca-unicredit-italian-stock-preview.html
Italy’s benchmark FTSE MIB Index
fell for a second day, losing 375.43, or 1.8 percent, to
20,365.30 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Milan.  The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.  A2A SpA  (A2A IM) increased 1.9 percent to 1.14 euros, a
third straight gain, as BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research
upgraded Italy’s biggest municipal utility to “buy” from
“neutral.”  The company said its board reviewed a report prepared by
its financial adviser Intesa Sanpaolo SpA on the company’s
strategy. The strategy review is continuing, A2A said in a
stock-exchange statement.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  (BMPS IM) fell 2.1
percent to 1.02 euros, snapping a two-day gain. Fitch Ratings
lowered the bank’s long-term credit rating to A- from A.  Banco Popolare SC  (BP IM) lost for a second day, declining
2.6 percent to 4.66 euros. The lender’s shares dropped below
their 50-day moving average after falling below their 200-day
moving average yesterday.  Gruppo Coin SpA  (GCN IM) increased 2 percent to 6.89 euros,
erasing the decline yesterday. The department store chain said
fiscal first-half earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization rose 26 percent to 61.1 million euros,
according to a statement distributed by the Italian exchange.  Mediaset SpA  (MS IM) ended a two-day increase, falling 2.5
percent to 5.18 euros as media stocks dropped across Europe
today.  Mediobanca SpA  (MB IM) advanced for a third day, rising 1.1
percent to 6.87 euros. The investment bank wants to continue to
pay dividends, Chief Executive Officer  Alberto Nagel  said.
Intermonte Sim SpA lifted its recommendation to “outperform”
from “neutral.”  Separately, la Repubblica reported that one of the reasons
that  Alessandro Profumo  was replaced in UniCredit SpA is because
he opposed a plan by Assicurazioni Generali SpA Chairman Cesare
Geronzi to merge Mediobanca with the insurer and then possibly
 Mediolanum SpA  (MED IM).  “The merger seems unlikely, but not impossible and Profumo
was certainly strongly opposed to the idea,” Equita Sim SpA
said in a note. Mediolanum, the financial-services company
partly owned by Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi,
advanced 4.8 percent to 3.25 euros.  Pirelli & C. SpA  (PC IM) dropped 2.5 percent to 5.74 euros,
the biggest loss in more than a month. Morgan Stanley downgraded
Europe’s third-largest tiremaker to “underweight” from
“overweight.”  Prysmian SpA  (PRY IM), the world’s second-biggest cable
maker, fell for the first time this week, losing 2.9 percent to
13.24 euros. Mediobanca Securities reiterated an
“underperform” rating on the stock.  STMicroelectronics NV  (STM IM), Europe’s largest
semiconductor maker, fell for the first day in four, losing 2.5
percent to 5.68 euros as the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index
headed for the biggest loss in more than three weeks.  Telecom Italia SpA  (TIT IM) fell for a second day, losing
1.8 percent to 1.02 euros. Equita Sim SpA downgraded Italy’s
biggest phone company to “hold” from “buy” and reduced the
weighting of the stock in its main portfolio to “neutral
weight.”  UniCredit SpA  (UCG IM) lost 4 percent to 1.82 euros,
extending losses of 2.1 percent yesterday. Cheuvreux downgraded
Italy’s biggest bank to “underperform” after Chief Executive
Officer  Alessandro Profumo  resigned, while Keefe, Bruyette &
Woods Ltd. lowered its rating to “market perform.” Societe
Generale SA trimmed its price estimate to 2.1 euros from 2.3
euros.  Credit Suisse Group AG reiterated an “outperform” rating
on the stock “although the sudden and unexpected resignation of
the CEO and, most importantly, the uncertainties about the
appointment of a successor and about the strategy of the bank
going forward are likely to weigh negatively on the share price
in the short term.” Deutsche Bank AG and BofA Merrill Lynch
Global Research kept a “buy” rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 