-- Russia, China to Build $5 Billion Refinery, Extend Gas Talks
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-09-22T03:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/rosneft-cnpc-may-build-refinery-in-china-in-two-years-ria-novosti-says.html
OAO Rosneft , Russia’s largest oil
producer, and China National Petroleum Corp. agreed to build a
$5 billion refinery in China, while the two countries may not
complete talks on natural-gas supplies until next year.  A feasibility study for the refinery in Tianjin will be
ready in six months and construction will take two years,
Russian Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Sechin  said yesterday,
according to a  statement  posted on the government’s website.
Sechin led meetings in the Chinese port city ahead of a planned
visit by President  Dmitry Medvedev  from Sept. 26 to Sept. 28.  Resource-rich Russia is expanding energy ties with China,
designing pipelines to deliver oil and gas to the world’s
biggest energy consumer. Chinese oil imports gained 48 percent
last year and have almost doubled since 2005, according to
customs data.  “China’s oil production is pretty much maxed out and it
needs Russian oil,” said  Laban Yu , an energy analyst at
Macquarie Hong Kong Ltd. “In fact, it needs oil full stop and
Russia is close and convenient. As part of agreements to supply
oil, Russia wants to have stakes inside China in ventures like
this” CNPC-Rosneft venture.  The refinery may have the capacity to process 13 million
metric tons of crude a year (260,000 barrels a day), Rosneft
said in an e-mailed statement. Rosneft expects the refinery to
start operations in 2015, the Moscow-based oil producer said.  Russian Supplies  Russian companies will supply 70 percent of the crude to
the facility at market prices, with the remaining 30 percent
from Arab countries, Sechin said. The deputy prime minister, who
is also Rosneft’s board chairman, attended a foundation-laying
ceremony for the refinery yesterday.  China National’s listed unit  PetroChina Co.  rose 1 percent
in Hong Kong trading to HK$8.76 at 11:37 a.m. local time. The
benchmark Hang Seng index gained 0.9 percent. China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp., the country’s second-biggest oil producer known
as Sinopec, advanced 1.2 percent to HK$6.69.  Russia and China continued gas supply talks, planning to
agree on the price for deliveries to the Asian nation in the
first half of 2011 and start shipments in 2015, Sechin said.
That matches the timeframe given by OAO Gazprom Deputy Chief
Executive Officer  Alexander Medvedev  in June. Supply terms may
be set during President Medvedev’s visit, the government’s
statement said.  “Sales are falling in Europe, so the timing is right for
Russia to develop a major new export market,”  Tony Regan , a
consultant at Tri-ZEN International in Singapore, said today in
an interview with Bloomberg television. “It’s certainly not a
done deal, but we are getting close to a deal.”  Gazprom had aimed to ship its first gas to China via
pipeline in 2011. Pricing disagreements have stalled progress.  Coal to Liquids  China is willing to expand energy cooperation with Russia
in areas such as oil, gas, coal, nuclear and power, the Xinhua
News Agency reported yesterday, citing Vice Premier  Wang Qishan .  Russia and China signed three energy cooperation documents
for oil, coal and coal-to-liquids after the Sino-Russian energy
negotiators’ meeting in Tianjin, Xinhua said.  Russia supplied at least 6 million tons of coal to China in
the first six months of the year, compared with 9 million tons
in the whole of 2009, Sechin said.  OAO Lukoil , Russia’s oil and gas company with the most
assets overseas, may dodge  OAO Gazprom ’s monopoly on Russian
natural gas exports by supplying China the fuel it produces in
Uzbekistan in partnership with the central Asian nation’s state-
owned producer.  Lukoil plans to sign a gas agreement with  China National
Petroleum  during President Medvedev’s trip to China later this
month, Lukoil Chief Executive Officer  Vagit Alekperov  told
reporters in Sochi on Sept. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 