-- Ruble Volatility Signals Push Toward Free Float: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-09-21T20:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/ruble-volatility-signals-push-toward-free-float-russia-credit.html
Russia’s ruble is posting the
widest swings in three months as the economic rebound from last
year’s record contraction spurs the central bank to move closer
to letting the currency float.  Ruble-dollar volatility climbed to 8.7 percent on Sept. 17,
the highest level since June 24, from a one-month low of 6.2
percent on Sept. 10, according to one-month historical data
compiled by Bloomberg. Expected fluctuations reached the highest
since Aug. 12 last week, based on a measure derived from one-
month dollar-ruble options known as implied volatility. The
ruble has weakened 2.6 percent since the beginning of August,
after strengthening 1.9 percent during June and July.  Bank Rossii , which has bought and sold currencies to curb
volatility and protect exporters since the government’s default
and devaluation in 1998, will “gradually change” its target
trading band to make the exchange rate more flexible, according
to new policies published on its website last week. Russia’s
swings contrast with Brazil where one-month real volatility was
at 7.68 percent yesterday and South Africa where it fell to 8.65
percent for the rand from 21 percent in June.  “The central bank is not immediately stepping out and
providing the dollars the market is seeking,”  Clemens Grafe ,
chief economist in Moscow at UBS AG, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “They’re comfortable with more ruble volatility.”  Bank Rossii bought less foreign currency in July and August
combined than in any month since December, with net purchases
totaling $1.7 billion, according to central bank data. Policy
makers sold a “negligible” amount in September, said  Grafe ,
citing his bank’s traders.  Staying Out  The central bank stayed out of the market last week,
according to Grafe. The ruble slid 1.25 percent against the
dollar on Sept. 16, the biggest decline since May 25, amid a
decline in oil prices.  Policy makers are more concerned about limiting
appreciation in the ruble than depreciation, said  Evgeny Gavrilenkov , chief economist at Troika Dialog, Russia’s oldest
investment bank. The central bank didn’t step in to influence
the currency in the past week “in line with their
commitments,” he said.  Policy makers sold as much as $200 million yesterday for
the third trading day, said  Denis Korshilov , head of foreign-
exchange trading in Moscow at Citigroup Inc.  ‘Satisfied’  “The central bank is still satisfied with its
interventions mechanism,” Korshilov said in a phone interview
yesterday. “They’re still committed to intervening according to
the scale which they’ve indicated.”  Bank Rossii’s only change is in selling foreign currency to
stem a weakening ruble now rather than buying to limit gains as
in previous months, Korshilov said.  First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in June the
central bank would no longer target a specific exchange rate and
the ruble may become more volatile.  Bank Rossii is steering the ruble within a trading corridor
of 33.60 to 36.40 against a dollar-euro  basket  and taking oil
prices into consideration when deciding how and when to
influence the exchange rate, Ulyukayev said June 29.  Ulyukayev may answer questions on the bank’s ruble policy
at a press conference in Moscow tomorrow, Bank Rossii’s press
service said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  Economic Rebound  The world’s biggest energy exporting economy may grow 4.4
percent this year, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said Sept. 17,
more than the official forecast of 4 percent. Capital investment
in Russia rose the most in two years last month and disposable
income climbed 7.9 percent, the most in seven months, according
to government data.  “There are no big pressures for the ruble out there so in
this kind of environment allowing a flexible exchange rate is
not going to establish any firm trend either way,” said
 Vladimir Osakovsky , chief Russia economist in Moscow at
UniCredit SpA, Italy’s largest bank, in a phone interview
yesterday. “They’re only intervening to smooth out sharp moves,
not intervention for intervention’s sake.”  The ruble strengthened 0.2 percent to 31.0599 per dollar
yesterday, after weakening 0.2 percent last week. The currency
lost 0.2 percent to 35.4238 against the euro-dollar  basket . Non-
deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials, showed the ruble at 31.2606 in three months.  Default Swaps  Gains in Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 lowered the
yield 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 4.64 percent.
The yield on the country’s ruble notes due November 2014 were
unchanged at 6.86 percent.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell 2 basis points to 162
points yesterday, according to data provider CMA. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade, cost 1
basis point more than similar contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries dropped one basis point to 223,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes. The difference
compares with 162 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 203 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  Yield Spread  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 58 basis points above
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  Ruble volatility has doubled from an average of 4.4 percent
in 2007 when Bank Rossii kept the exchange rate between 29 and
30 against the basket it uses to limit ruble fluctuations. The
rate rose to an average of 13 percent in 2008 and 2009 when the
central bank was forced to devalue the exchange rate by more
than 20 percent during the global credit crisis and reached 17.7
percent on June 1 after the ruble weakened 5.8 percent against
the dollar in May.  Russia’s biggest companies say they’re able to manage the
risk of losses from currency swings.  While volatility affects the business of Moscow-based OAO
Gazprom, Russia’s largest company has “always been able to deal
with it successfully,” Yana Kolosovskaya, head of loans and
guarantees, said at a conference in London yesterday.  OAO Lukoil , Russia’s second-largest oil producer, gets
revenue from 37 countries, Sergey Nekrasov, Moscow-based
Lukoil’s head of financial institutions and capital markets,
said at the same conference yesterday. “What happens with the
ruble does have an impact but the risk is managed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  