-- Aluminum May Rise to $2,500 Next Year on Chinese Demand, Rusal Forecasts
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-09-21T17:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/rusal-sees-aluminum-rising-to-2-400-to-2-500-next-year-on-chinese-demand.html
United Co. Rusal , the world’s
biggest aluminum producer, expects prices for the metal to rise
to $2,400 to $2,500 a metric ton next year as China scales back
domestic production.  China may become a net importer of aluminum by late 2011 as
the country’s smelters cut output to curb costs and reduce power
consumption, Rusal’s First Deputy Chief Executive Officer
 Vladislav Soloviev  said in Manama, Bahrain. Aluminum traded for
about $2,178 on the London Metal Exchange today.  “Everybody thinks that China, sooner or later, will switch
to a net importer because they can’t produce the metal at this
level of cost,” Soloviev said today. “We will see a slight
increase in the prices.”  Rusal, saddled with  debts  of more than $13 billion, is
banking on a continued recovery in aluminum prices following a
slump caused by the global economic recession. Chief Executive
Officer  Oleg Deripaska  has said he expects demand to grow
fastest in China, where Rusal became the first Russian company
to sell shares with a $2.24 billion offering on the Hong Kong
exchange in January.  Rusal’s sales to China, “small” this year, will rise once
the company is qualified to sell on the Shanghai Metal Exchange,
which is expected by the end of this year, Soloviev said. Asia
may account for 30 percent of Rusal’s sales, with China taking
as much as half that amount, he said.  The Moscow-based company expects to produce 4.1 million
tons of aluminum next year, little changed from 2010, Soloviev
said. Production of alloys will rise to 1.5 million tons from
1.3 million tons.  The company’s proposal to PT Aneka Tambang for a bauxite
and alumina plant in Indonesia is on hold, Soloviev said. Rusal
is currently focusing on reducing debt, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Manama at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  