-- Russia to Scrutinize Bid by India's ONGC for Strategic Arctic Oil Fields
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-09-21T12:41:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/russia-to-scrutinize-bid-by-india-s-ongc-for-strategic-arctic-oil-fields.html
Russia’s government will examine
whether India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp., known as  ONGC , has the
right to bid for the Trebs and Titov fields under the country’s
strategic resources laws.  “They still have time to get approval from the
governmental committee,” Russia’s Natural Resources Minister
Yuri Trutnev told reporters today in Moscow. Under Russian law,
the government must approve foreign investment in strategic
assets, including large oil and gas deposits.  Five of Russia’s largest oil companies, including OAO
Lukoil and  TNK-BP , the venture half-owned by BP Plc, plan to bid
for the rights to develop Trebs and Titov, the country’s largest
undistributed fields. ONGC paid the participation fee via its
Russian unit, Interfax said yesterday, citing an unidentified
official with the Federal Subsoil Agency.  The tender rules didn’t limit foreign companies’ right to
apply, said Yelena Koverga, a spokeswoman for the Natural
Resources Ministry.  India, planning a sovereign wealth fund to help companies
compete with China for overseas energy assets, has ordered
state-run ONGC and  Oil India Ltd . to speed up purchases and get
“at least one big asset,” Oil Secretary S. Sundareshan, the
senior-most bureaucrat in the petroleum ministry, said in March.
ONGC bought Imperial Energy Plc, which has oil fields in
Siberia, for about 1.4 billion pounds ($2.2 billion) last year.  ONGC Partner  “We believe ONGC is likely to invite a Russian partner for
the development of the project should it win the tender,” Luis
Saenz, a London-based director of international sales at
Otkritie Securities Ltd., wrote in an e-mailed note.  OAO Rosneft , Russia’s largest oil producer, may team up
with the winner to develop Trebs and Titov, RIA Novosti said,
citing Rosneft Chief Executive Officer  Eduard Khudainatov .
Rosneft dropped plans to bid for the fields to focus on a “good
set of highly promising” projects, Khudainatov said in a
statement yesterday.  India sought oil and gas projects with Rosneft during a
visit to New Delhi by Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  in March.
Rosneft and ONGC have been partners with  Exxon Mobil Corp . on
the Sakhalin-1 project in Russia’s Far East since 2003 and
signed an agreement in 2007 to jointly bid for exploration and
refining projects.  ONGC signed an agreement in December with Russian
billionaire  Vladimir Yevtushenkov ’s AFK Sistema to study and
explore opportunities in Russia and third countries. Sistema
controls  OAO Bashneft , which said last week it has the financial
resources to bid alone for Trebs and Titov.  The bidders must now submit proposals and confirm payment
of a deposit by Oct. 28. The starting price was set at 18.2
billion rubles ($587 million). The results of the tender will be
announced on Dec. 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net 
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  