-- Russia May Sell More Weapons to Syria as U.S., Israel Protest
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-09-22T10:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/russia-may-sell-more-weapons-to-syria-as-u-s-israel-protest-missile-deal.html
Russia will complete the delivery
of anti-ship missiles to Syria this year and may sell more arms
to the Mideast nation after assessing the impact on the regional
balance of power, Defense Minister  Anatoly Serdyukov  said.  “All weapons within the earlier contract will be delivered
by year end,” Serdyukov said in an interview in Moscow. Syria 
has made new requests “that are being considered at present,”  
he said. “Pre-contract work can last a few months to a few years.
There is no guarantee a contract will be signed in the end.”  The U.S. said this week it shares Israel’s concern that the
proliferation of “advanced weapons” may destabilize the Middle
East. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  made the same point to
Serdyukov during meetings last week in Washington, Defense
Department spokesman  Geoff Morrell  said Sept. 20.  Serdyukov’s comments on Syria came as he said Russia and
the U.S. are trying to build a “new format of relations” on
defense issues, including cooperation in Afghanistan. Russia
earlier this year scrapped the delivery of S-300 air defense
systems to Iran in compliance with international sanctions
against the country.  “The president of Russia has taken a decision not to
deliver S-300s,” said Serdyukov, 48. “This is dictated by a
complicated military and political situation in the region and
support of the United Nations sanctions against Iran.”  ‘Serious Assessment’  Serdyukov declined to discuss details of the new requests
from Syria.  “We are conducting a serious assessment of how it may
affect the existing balance of forces in the region,” Serdyukov
said. “We understand that it would not be right to upset it.
Therefore all these nuances and analyses are being thoroughly
assessed.”  Under an existing contract, Russia will supply Yakhont
cruise missiles worth more than $300 million to Syria, the
Moscow-based Interfax news service reported Sept. 19. The
agreement contains safeguards to prevent weapons from being
transferred to other parties, Serdyukov said.  “The Israelis and perhaps to some extent the Americans
voice apprehension that these weapons can somehow fall into the
hands of terrorists,” he said. “The contract has provisions
for a series of controlling measures that will not allow for
this to happen.”  Serdyukov held talks with Gates on Sept. 15 in Washington,
their first meeting since 2008, when relations soured after
Russia routed Georgia’s U.S-trained army in a five-day war over
the breakaway republic of South Ossetia.  ‘Serious Breakthrough’  The defense chiefs agreed to set up working groups on the
issues of greatest concern and use a three-tier decision-making
process in which issues are reviewed first by local experts,
then military chiefs of staff and finally at the ministerial
level. Serdyukov said he invited Gates to Moscow and hopes he
will visit in the first half of 2011.  “Within a month I will prepare a letter to Gates
addressing what interests us and where we would like to
cooperate,” Serdyukov said. “It will be a serious
breakthrough,” complete with practical steps in areas such as
equipment and training.  The most contentious issue for Russia, the U.S. plan to
deploy a missile defense system, wasn’t discussed in detail last
week. Instead, the talks focused on how the topic should be
addressed and in what time period, Serdyukov said.  “All our proposals made in 2007 remain in force,” he
said. “It is quite likely new proposals will emerge.”  ‘Neighborly Relations’  U.S. President  Barack Obama  last September said he was
scrapping former President  George W. Bush ’s proposal to deploy a
missile shield in Poland and the Czech Republic in the face of
Russian opposition. He promised a more flexible system to
protect against threats to the U.S. and its European allies,
providing an opportunity to revisit earlier Russian proposals.  Russia’s 2007 plan would put the radar warning and control
system for the missiles in Azerbaijan, a former Soviet republic
that shares a border with Iran, using existing equipment
installed by the Soviet Union. The facility would be under the
joint control of the U.S. and Russian militaries.  Serdyukov said Russia also wants improved relations with
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, whose eastward expansion
tops the list of external dangers in a military doctrine
approved by President  Dmitry Medvedev  in February.  “We consider it a certain danger that NATO is expanding
and advancing to our borders,” Serdyukov said. “The military
doctrine, nevertheless, does not limit our aspiration to develop
constructive and good neighborly relations with the U.S. and
other NATO member countries in the long-term.”  Afghanistan Cooperation  The main threat to Russia is terrorism, which is why the
armed forces are being overhauled to respond to local conflicts,
Serdyukov said.  Russia is facing an increasing wave of terrorist attacks
mainly originating in the North Caucasus region. The region is
plagued by an Islamist insurgency, the country’s highest
unemployment rates and rampant corruption.  Russia has supported the U.S. fight against terrorism by
letting the American military ship cargoes across its territory
to Afghanistan, and the government is considering increased
cooperation, Serdyukov said.  While Russia won’t send troops, it is ready to train
specialists and deliver military equipment, the defense minister
said. Talks are underway to deliver 20 Mi-17 helicopters to
Afghanistan, he said.  Serdyukov said Gates assured him that the U.S. will use the
Manas air base in neighboring Kyrgyzstan only as long as
operations in Afghanistan continue.  “They do not consider it a fundamental or a permanent
installation,” Serdyukov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net 
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  