-- Safran Rises as Merrill Rates the Stock Buy, Citing L-1, Aerospace Rebound
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-09-21T08:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/safran-rises-as-merrill-rates-the-stock-buy-citing-l-1-aerospace-rebound.html
Safran SA , Europe’s second-biggest
aircraft-engine maker, rose the most in almost seven months in
Paris trading after Merrill Lynch raised its recommendation to
”buy” from “neutral,” citing a commercial aerospace recovery.  Safran  rose  as much as 10 percent, the most since Feb. 25,
and traded at 21.59 euros, a 5.9 percent gain, as of 10:24 a.m.
Merrill raised its price target to 24 euros from 22 euros.  Recent airline traffic and capacity numbers provide “clear
evidence” for a recovery, Merrill Lynch analysts including
 Celine Fornaro  said in a research note today. They said the
planned  acquisition  of L-1 Identity Solutions Inc. will add 3
percent to 4 percent to earnings per share in 2011 and is ”a
step in the right direction in a good growth industry.”  Safran, based in Paris, said yesterday it will buy  L-1 , a
U.S. maker of biometric fingerprint and facial recognition
technology, for $1.6 billion including debt.  Merrill also cited an announcement last week by the
 families  that control 36 percent of the voting rights in  Zodiac
Aerospace , saying they agreed to maintain their holdings until
2012. Merrill, a Bank of America Corp. unit, said that removes
for now the risk that Safran will overpay for Zodiac.  Safran yesterday repeated its interest in buying the
company, Europe’s biggest maker of airplane seats, even after
Zodiac management rebuffed earlier advances. “Safran have
reiterated their interest in Zodiac, but we feel they will not
chase it in the near term,” the Merrill analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 