-- Seagate Technology Said to Have Held Failed Talks With TPG, Silver Lake
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-09-21T19:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/seagate-technology-said-to-have-held-failed-talks-with-tpg-silver-lake.html
Seagate Technology Plc , the world’s
largest maker of hard-disk drives, held talks with previous
owners TPG Capital and Silver Lake about going private again,
according to people with knowledge of the discussions.  Talks ended in recent weeks, and a deal, which would have
been valued at about  $7 billion , is unlikely to happen, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the discussions
were private. Representatives of TPG, Silver Lake and Dublin-
based Seagate declined to comment.  Negotiations collapsed as Seagate wasn’t meeting some of
the financial  projections  the two private-equity firms had based
the deal on, said one of the people familiar with the situation.
That led to a disagreement over price, the person said. Morgan
Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America Corp. were
advising and lending on the deal, the people said.  “The personal computer market is going to have a weak
finish to the year and the market for hard drives is
oversupplied, so there’s margin and price pressure,” said  Ashok Kumar , an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw LLC in New York, who  rates 
Seagate “market outperform.”  Seagate surged as much as 6.2 percent, rebounding from an
earlier loss of as much as 4 percent, by 2:40 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Before today, the stock had
dropped 38 percent this year, to $11.29 a share, valuing the
company at about $5.3 billion.  Fewer Deals  Trading of Seagate’s shares was halted for five minutes
after the sudden rise triggered a circuit breaker implemented
after the U.S. equity market crash in May.  A deal of the magnitude Seagate discussed would have been
the largest leveraged buyout by U.S. private-equity firms in
more than three years as funds hunt for targets in a stabilizing
economy. TPG, based in Fort Worth, Texas, and  Silver Lake , based
in New York and Menlo Park, California, agreed to buy Seagate in
2000 and took it public in 2002 for $12 a share.  Buyout firms have struggled to restart dealmaking after the
global financial crisis froze credit markets in mid-2007, ending
the biggest LBO boom in history. Managers have announced $68.1
billion worth of deals so far this year, versus $443.6 billion
during the same period in 2007.  The firms pool money from investors to take over companies,
financing the purchases mostly with debt, with the intention of
selling them later for a profit.  “To deliver the kind of consistent financial results of the
kind that would be a typical yardstick for a private-equity
transaction, Seagate is just not in a position to do that now,”
Kumar said.  LBOs Fall Through  The failure of the Seagate talks is at least the second
large LBO to fall through in recent months. TPG, along with
 Blackstone Group LP  and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, pursued an
ultimately unsuccessful takeover of Fidelity National
Information Services Inc. in May. The private-equity groups
offered more than $15 billion for the company, people with
knowledge of the deal said at the time.  TPG’s deal to buy  IMS Health Inc.  for $5 billion, announced
in November of last year, stands as the largest LBO since the
credit crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 