-- SEC Insider Trading Case Against Fund Manager Obus Thrown Out by Judge
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-09-21T17:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/sec-insider-trading-case-against-fund-manager-obus-thrown-out-by-judge.html
Hedge fund manager  Nelson Obus  won
dismissal of case by the U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission 
claiming he made $1.34 million from an illegal tip about a 2001
merger.  U.S. District Judge  George Daniels  yesterday threw out the
case against Obus, president of  Wynnefield Capital Inc.  and two
other defendants,  Thomas Strickland  and  Peter Black .  The SEC suit alleged that in May 2001, Strickland, a
 General Electric Capital Corp.  employee, tipped his friend
Black, a Wynnefield Capital Inc. analyst, that SunSource Inc.
was to be acquired by  Allied Capital Corp.   Black passed the tip on to Obus, who used the information
in his decision to buy SunSource stock for three hedge funds
that he controlled, the SEC said.  “The SEC has not produced facts sufficient to prove that
Strickland breached a duty to his employer, nor has it
demonstrated the requisite degree of deceptive conduct on the
part of any defendant,” Daniels said in a written opinion.  SEC spokesman  John Heine  had no immediate comment on the
ruling.  After receiving the merger tip, Obus directed the purchase
of 287,200 shares of SunSource stock at $4.75 on June 8, 2001,
according to the SEC complaint. It was the largest purchase of
SunSource shares Obus had ever made and amounted to more than 99
percent of the company’s stock traded that day, the SEC said.  The shares were deposited into the three hedge fund
accounts, two of which Obus and Black had an interest in,
according to the suit. The SEC sought monetary penalties and an
order barring the three men from serving as officers or
directors of a public company.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Obus, 06-
CV-3150, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  