-- SEC's Walter Seeks Regulations That Would Protect Municipal Bond Investors
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-09-21T17:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/sec-s-walter-seeks-regulations-that-would-protect-municipal-bond-investors.html
Rules for selling municipal bonds
should afford investors protections similar to those in other
U.S. markets, Securities and Exchange Commission member  Elisse B. Walter  said.  Investors should be able to get “information that is not
materially misleading and does not contain material omissions,”
Walter said today at a San Francisco hearing. “That includes
receiving financial and other material information that is not
stale. As I have previously bemoaned, investors in municipal
securities are, in certain respects, afforded second-class
treatment.”  The SEC is moving to remake regulations covering public
officials and Wall Street underwriters who sell municipal bonds
to investors. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  in May said regulators
should consider requiring more timely disclosure of financial
information, adopting mandatory accounting standards and
ensuring that borrowers such as real-estate developers who raise
money through municipal entities provide adequate information to
investors.  The $2.8 trillion municipal market is used by cities,
states and towns that back the bonds with taxes, as well as
entities such as nursing homes, hospitals and real-estate
developers that act through government agencies and default when
the projects fail.  Failed Monorail  During the last three years, more than $17 billion of
municipal bonds have defaulted, including those backed by Las
Vegas’ monorail and a toll road in South Carolina, according to
Distressed Debt Securities Newsletter, a Miami Lakes, Florida
publication that tracks defaults. Individual investors dominate
the municipal bond market, holding more than $1 trillion
directly and more through mutual funds.  “In spite of their well-deserved reputation for safety,
municipal securities can and do default,” Walter said.  Schapiro appointed Walter to lead the hearings on improving
regulations for the municipal bond market. The San Francisco
session is the first of six planned.  Separately, the financial regulatory overhaul that
President  Barack Obama  signed in July provided for a two-year
study of municipal finance disclosure, including whether to
scrap a 1975 law that prevents the SEC from imposing the same
requirements on local governments that it does on corporations.
The SEC has also established a special unit to bring municipal
securities enforcement cases.  No Single Approach  California Treasurer  Bill Lockyer , who also testified at
today’s hearings, cautioned regulators against a uniform
approach, saying the rules should reflect the differences among
the many government entities that raise money in the municipal
market.  Washington state Treasurer  James McIntire  also plans to
speak against uniform issuance rules when he appears before the
panel today, in part because they would impede smaller
municipalities’ access to the market, according to his
spokesman,  Chris McGann .  Walter said new regulations would acknowledge the
difference between the municipal and corporate securities
markets. Municipal officials have opposed efforts to force them
to file bond offering documents with the SEC before sales, as
corporations must do with stock offerings.  “Some have suggested looking to the corporate-disclosure
scheme as a framework for municipal disclosure,” she said. “I
believe that we can learn from the corporate world, but it is
also essential that we recognize the differences in the
municipal and corporate finance worlds and that we work together
to evaluate what an appropriate framework for municipal-finance
disclosure should be in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  