-- Shell-PetroChina Takeover of Arrow Means $308 Million Profit for New Hope
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-09-21T04:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/shell-petrochina-takeover-of-arrow-means-308-million-profit-for-new-hope.html
The takeover of gas producer Arrow
Energy Ltd. by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and PetroChina Co. will
generate a A$326 million ($308 million) profit for shareholder
New Hope Corp., giving the coal miner more cash for acquisitions.  “New Hope recognized the likelihood of coal-seam gas
having a greater role in the energy equation in eastern
Australia and that turned out to be correct,”  Robert Neale ,
managing director of the Ipswich, Queensland-based company, said
in an interview. “The earlier in, the better the profit.”  New Hope increased investment in Australian gas explorers
this year, acquiring 20 percent stakes in  WestSide Corp.  and
Planet Gas Ltd. The company, which also holds a 17 percent share
in Arrow spinoff  Dart Energy Ltd. , has almost A$2 billion in
cash that it may spend on buying energy and coal assets,
exploration and expansion, Neale said, declining to identify
acquisition targets.  “Gas is part of our broader diversification into the
energy sphere, rather than strictly coal-mining activity,” he
said by phone today. “As the power-generation needs of this
country grow, then in the near term it’s evident that gas will
be the most likely generator of baseload power generation.”  New Hope  said today net income fell 30 percent to A$183.8
million in the year ended July 31, partly because of lower
export coal prices and higher transportation costs.  The board of New Hope declared a special dividend of 14
Australian cents a share and a final dividend of 4.5 cents.
“It’s easier enough to buy stuff if you’ve got the money, but
you have to make sure you deliver dividends,” Neale said.  Gas, Coal Acquisitions  The company held 122.6 million shares of Arrow at the end
of July, or almost 17 percent of the Brisbane-based coal-seam
gas producer. The shares had cost New Hope about A$110 million,
the company said. Arrow was acquired by Shell and  PetroChina 
this year at A$4.70 a share, valuing New Hope’s interest at
about A$576 million.  New Hope will record the after-tax profit of A$326 million
from Arrow in the year ending in July 2011, the company said.
Shares of Dart Energy have increased 36 percent to A$1.06 in
Sydney since beginning trading at 75 cents a share on July 22.  New Hope has no immediate plans to bid again for  Macarthur
Coal Ltd. , Neale said. Macarthur Coal, the world’s largest
producer of pulverized coal, rejected takeover offers earlier
this year from  Peabody Energy Corp.  and New Hope.  “They’ve taken their decision, and we’ve withdrawn,” he
said, declining to comment further.  Foreign companies are targeting coal producers in Australia,
the world’s largest exporter of the fuel, to benefit from
increasing sales to Asia.  While New Hope is considering acquisitions, “one of our
challenges is that we have to get an economic return,” Neale
said. “Some of the overseas companies are prepared to pay just
to get their footprint on the resource. They have the capacity
to pay a little bit more than we can. But at the end of the day,
we’ve got a very good track record and I expect we’ll be able to
continue to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 