-- Siemens Cuts Value of Diagnostics Unit After Failing Targets
-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 2010-09-21T21:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/siemens-cuts-health-diagnostics-unit-s-value-after-failing-to-meet-targets.html
Siemens AG  will take a 1.4 billion-
euro ($1.85 billion) impairment charge on its health-care
diagnostics unit after the business that it built up through
multiple  acquisitions  failed to meet company growth targets.  Siemens will write down the goodwill in its fiscal fourth
quarter that ends Sept. 30, the Munich-based company said in a
statement today. Siemens, which is Europe’s largest engineering
company, said its overall  outlook  for the year is unchanged.  “Due to long-term changes in the overall health-care
market, it became necessary to reassess growth expectations,”
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  said in an e-mailed
statement. “While the cost targets associated with the
integration of the three companies were completely met, we
haven’t achieved our growth targets,” Siemens said.  Siemens expanded its health-care division between 2006 and
2007 with the acquisitions of  Diagnostic Products Corp. , Bayer
AG’s diagnostics unit as well as Dade Behring Holdings Inc. for
a total of about 11 billion euros as it sought to narrow the gap
with  General Electric Co.  Siemens switched management at its
laboratory diagnostics unit this year and said it will
“resolutely” tackle the business to improve growth.  Raising Outlook  In July, Siemens raised its full-year  profit  outlook,
predicting that so-called sector profit, or operating income at
Siemens’s energy, health-care and industry divisions, in fiscal
2010 will “clearly exceed” last year’s 7.47 billion euros.  Siemens began building up the diagnostics unit with the
purchase of DPC for $1.86 billion in cash in April 2006, gaining
a maker of test kits to detect diseases such as cancer and
allergies. The same year, the company agreed to pay 4.2 billion
euros for the division of Bayer that makes machines used to
analyse the blood or urine of patients, and Siemens combined the
two purchased assets. A year later, it bought Dade Behring.  That deal, for about $7 billion, added products to test
heart disease, cancer, blood disorders and illegal drug use, and
came three weeks after Loescher took over. His predecessor,
 Klaus Kleinfeld , left in the wake of a bribery probe. Investors
at the time called the Dade transaction too expensive.  After the purchases in health-care, Siemens has made mainly
smaller acquisitions over the last two years in areas such as
renewable energy. The company explored a sale of its hearing-aid
subsidiary earlier this year, before dropping the plan because
it couldn’t fetch the desired price.  Siemens is the world’s largest maker of computer tomography
devices, and it competes with GE and Royal Philips Electronics
NV in the global health-care equipment market. The German
company’s  largest division  by sales is the industrial unit,
which makes factory automation gear and high-speed trains,
followed by the energy division and the health-care unit.  Cost cuts and surging demand for medical equipment in
markets including Australia, China and Brazil have helped buoy
earnings at the Siemens health-care unit in the most recent
quarter.  Operating profit  in the fiscal third quarter increased
to 506 million euros from 270 million euros in the year-earlier
period. The business has an order backlog totaling 7 billion
euros, the company said in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Benedikt Kammel  at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  