-- Sinochem Asks Deutsche Bank, Citigroup to Assess Potash, FT Says
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y
-- 2010-09-21T22:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/sinochem-asks-deutsche-bank-citigroup-to-assess-action-on-potash-ft-says.html
Sinochem Group hired Deutsche Bank
AG and Citigroup Inc. to assess a possible move to disrupt BHP
Billiton Ltd.’s offer for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. , the
Financial Times reported, citing people familiar with the matter.  China’s government has indicated its approval for Sinochem
to assess ways of disrupting BHP’s offer, the newspaper cited
one unidentified person as saying. Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China Ltd. may also be part of the group, the report said.  Sinochem, China’s largest fertilizer trader, said in August
it is “closely watching” BHP’s hostile $40 billion bid.
Joining the contest may indicate China’s desire to stop BHP from
controlling more supplies to the world’s biggest consumer of
commodities after years of price tensions over iron ore.  Potash Corp. , the world’s biggest fertilizer producer,
dropped 1.3 percent to C$150.55 in Toronto trading yesterday.
Its shares are trading 16 percent above Melbourne-based BHP’s
offer of $130 a share. BHP fell 1.1 percent to 19.59 pounds in
London.  Sinochem may opt to take a stake in Potash rather than make
a full takeover bid, a move that may ease any opposition to a
Chinese state-owned company’s involvement, the Financial Times
said.  Demand is increasing for potash, a form of potassium used
as a crop nutrient mined in countries including Canada, the U.S.,
Brazil and Germany. China, the biggest consumer of rice, wheat
and soybeans, needs more productive farmlands as it wants to
supply food for 22 percent of the world’s population using less
than 10 percent of the globe’s arable land.  Sinochem Group is listed as a key state-owned company under
the nation’s state-owned Assets Supervision and Administration
Commission of the State Council. The group is China’s biggest
chemicals trader, fourth-largest oil company, and also has
interests in real estate and finance, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Livesey  at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 