-- South Africa's ANC to Debate Nationalization Call, Won't Adopt as Policy
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-09-21T12:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/south-africa-s-anc-to-debate-nationalization-call-won-t-adopt-as-policy.html
South Africa’s ruling African
National Congress is unlikely to adopt a new policy during
debates this week on proposals to nationalize the country’s
mines.  ANC’s Youth League has been urging the party to endorse
nationalization at its national general council meeting in the
eastern port city of Durban, which ends on Sept. 24. It argues
that state ownership of mines became ANC policy when it adopted
a document known as the Freedom Charter in 1955.  “Nationalization is among the things that will be
debated” by a commission looking at South Africa’s economic
transformation tomorrow, ANC Secretary-General  Gwede Mantashe 
told reporters today. “Never would we pretend to have a
monopoly on a debate. Open it up, allow people to debate, allow
different views to be expressed. What I advise the media against
is taking proposals as policy.”  President  Jacob Zuma  made no reference to nationalization
in his opening address to the ANC meeting yesterday. The party
will review progress in implementing policies agreed upon at the
ANC’s last national conference in 2007 and won’t deal with “new
policies,” he said. Deputy President  Kgalema Motlanthe  said in
a Sept. 17 interview in London that nationalization was not on
the agenda of the five-day conference.  Platinum, Chrome Ore  South Africa has the world’s largest reserves of platinum,
chrome ore and manganese. Citigroup Inc. has valued the nation’s
total mineral resources at $2.5 trillion. Companies including
Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton  Ltd. and London-based  Rio Tinto
Group  and  Anglo American Plc  have mines in the country.  Laws passed in 2004 that compel mining companies to sell 26
percent of their local assets to black South Africans by 2014
have done too little to transform the industry in the 16 years
since the end of apartheid, the Youth League argues.  “What we are beginning to talk about is the role of the
state in the economy, not just the nationalization of the
mines,” Mantashe said. “What do we mean by a strong state?”  He called for a review of the role of the state-owned Post
Bank, which offers saving accounts and a limited range of other
services.  “The fact that we have a Post Bank that would give the
state a big foot in the financial sector and doesn’t have a
proper banking license is an issue that we must talk about,” he
said. “Just give the Post Bank a proper banking license and the
state will have a place in the financial sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Durban via Johannesburg at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Durban via Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 