-- Soybeans Fall From 15-Month High on Improved South American Crop Outlook
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2010-09-21T19:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/soybeans-fall-from-15-month-high-on-improved-south-american-crop-outlook.html
Soybeans fell from a 15-month high
on speculation that rains will allow farmers in South America to
sow crops in areas where planting was delayed by dry weather.  The storms will move in Sept. 26, improving soil moisture
in fields from northern Argentina to northeastern Brazil, an
area that’s been mostly dry since Aug. 1, Chicago-based QT
Weather said today in a report. As much as 2 inches may fall in
early October, the forecaster said. Brazil and Argentina are the
biggest soybean producers and exporters after the U.S.  “These rains will be critical,” said  Steve Freed , the
director of research for ADM Investor Services Inc. in Chicago,
who said some parts of the two countries haven’t had any
precipitation in more than 70 days. “If the rains fail to
materialize, the dryness issue will get worse.”  Soybean futures for November delivery fell 4.5 cents, or
0.4 percent, to close at $10.80 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Yesterday, the oilseed touched $10.995,
the highest level since June 2009. The price has gained 20
percent since the end of June.  Prices rose as much as 0.9 percent earlier on signs of
increased demand for U.S. soybean from China, the biggest
consumer and buyer of the oilseed.  U.S. shippers sold 170,000 metric tons to the Asian nation
for delivery before Aug. 31, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
said today. Yesterday, the agency reported sales of 225,000
tons. The dollar has dropped this month against a basket of
major currencies, reducing the costs of U.S. supplies for
overseas buyers.  “China keeps buying U.S. soybeans,” said  Jerry Gidel , a
market analyst for North America Risk Management Services Inc.
in Chicago. “The dollar is weaker and that will help to keep
U.S. soybeans competitive” with supplies from Brazil and
Argentina, the biggest exporters after the U.S.  The soybean crop in the U.S. was valued at $31.8 billion
last year, second only to corn at $48.6 billion, government
figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 