-- Sri Lanka Keeps Interest Rate at 7.25% After Cuts to Aid Economic Growth
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2010-09-21T13:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/sri-lanka-keeps-rates-unchanged-judging-mid-year-cuts-to-be-sufficient.html
Sri Lanka’s central bank kept
borrowing costs unchanged, judging its interest-rate cuts in
July and August are sufficient for the moment to support
economic growth.  The Central Bank of Sri Lanka left the  reverse repurchase
rate  at 9 percent, the lowest level since November 2004, and the
 repurchase rate  at 7.25 percent, according to a statement on the
Colombo-based bank’s  website  today.  Governor  Ajith Nivard Cabraal  has slashed the reverse
repurchase rate by three-quarters of a percentage point since
early July, taking advantage of low inflation to bolster the
economy.  Consumer prices  in Colombo rose 5 percent in August
from a year earlier, which is less than half the average rate of
the five years through 2009.  “More rate cuts are not required at this time as loan
demand is picking up and the growth momentum is intact,”
 Sanjeewa Fernando , an analyst at CT Smith Stockbrokers Pvt. in
Colombo, said before the decision.  Cabraal told Bloomberg News on Sept. 7 that he expects a
“faster upturn” in credit growth in the coming months.  Sri Lanka’s consumer and corporate credit grew 8.9 percent
to 1.29 trillion rupees ($11.5 billion) in July from a year
earlier, after expanding 6.2 percent in June, according to the
central bank.  Contrasting Stance  The Sri Lankan central bank’s monetary stance contrasts
with those in India, Malaysia and Thailand, where policy makers
have raised borrowing costs this year to check inflation or
prevent asset bubbles.  Gross domestic product rose 8.5 percent in the three months
ended June 30 from a year earlier, the most since 2002, the
statistics department said Sept. 16.  Sri Lanka’s $42 billion economy may  grow  as much as 8
percent in 2010, the central bank said today, compared with an
earlier forecast for a 7 percent expansion.  “Credit flows to the private sector are expected to
increase further in the period ahead,” the bank said.  President  Mahinda Rajapaksa ’s government ended the island’s
26-year civil war by defeating the Liberation Tigers of Tamil
Eelam in May 2009.  The prospect of peace and faster economic growth are
attracting foreign companies to the island nation.  Mphasis Ltd. , an Indian software developer controlled by
Hewlett-Packard Co., may hire as many as 5,000 people in Sri
Lanka in three years, Chief Executive Officer  Balu Ganesh Ayyar 
said in Colombo Sept. 6.  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. , the United Arab
Emirates’ biggest phone company, on July 20 announced plans to
spend as much as $163 million in six months to expand its
network in Sri Lanka.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anusha Ondaatjie  in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  