-- Summers' Stature Means Obama Faces Tough Task in Replacing Him
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-09-22T17:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/summers-to-leave-as-head-of-obama-s-economic-council-to-return-to-harvard.html
For all of  Lawrence Summers’s 
drawbacks, a strong-willed and intellectual economist who
critics say is difficult to work with, President  Barack Obama 
faces a tough task in finding a replacement with the stature of
the departing director of the National Economic Council.  Summers will return to Harvard University, where he has
served as president and is a professor on a two-year leave, by
the end of the year, the White House said yesterday. He will
leave the economic team at a time when the nation is still
recovering from the worst recession since the 1930s, and
following elections in which the president’s party faces the
possible loss of control of the House and perhaps the Senate.  Obama will be searching on three fronts, people familiar
with the discussions say. Administration officials are debating
recruiting a corporate executive to allay the business
community’s doubts about White House policies. They’re also
looking at female candidates to add balance on an economic team
dominated by men. Most of all, the White House could use
another  Larry Summers .  Summers was the “brain trust for Obama,” said  Catherine Mann , a former Federal Reserve economist who is now an
economics professor at Brandeis University in Waltham,
Massachusetts.  Answering the Call  “I will always be grateful that at a time of great peril
for our country, a man of Larry’s brilliance, experience and
judgment was willing to answer the call and lead our economic
team,” Obama said in a statement yesterday.  White House officials said a decision on a replacement
isn’t imminent because Summers will stay on until the end of
the year.  “Fortunately, there is some time here,”  Austan Goolsbee ,
head of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said in
an interview.  Among those whose names have been discussed is  Anne Mulcahy , the former chief executive officer of  Xerox Corp ., two
people familiar with administration discussions said. Other
potential candidates include  David Cote , CEO of  Honeywell
International Inc ., and  Richard Parsons , chairman of  Citigroup
Inc ., according to one of the people.  Cote is a member of Obama’s commission on cutting the
federal  deficit  and, along with Parsons and Mulcahy, has been
among the executives the president has called to the White
House for consultations.  Dinner With Jarrett  Mulcahy had dinner last week with senior Obama adviser
 Valerie Jarrett  as part of the White House outreach to
business, an administration official said on condition of
anonymity. They didn’t discuss a White House position, the
official said.  Erskine Bowles , the co-chairman of the deficit commission
and a former Clinton administration official, has also been
mentioned as a possibility, a third person said.  The administration official said there is no final list of
candidates under consideration and that Summers will play a
role in determining his successor. The position doesn’t require
Senate confirmation.  Martin Neil Baily , who was chairman of the Council of
Economic Advisers in President  Bill Clinton ’s administration,
said Obama needs someone who can smooth the tensions between
the White House and the corporate world.  Business Interests  “I think they are looking for someone who businesses can
feel they can talk to and understands their interests,” Baily
said. “That doesn’t mean Larry didn’t. But that’s going to be
an important qualification for the job.”  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , who was the top economic adviser to
Republican nominee  John McCain  during the 2008 presidential
campaign, said the Obama White House has “a serious problem”
in relations with U.S. businesses.  “They need an ambassador to that community, and a visible
appointment that says they respect and care about business in
the United States would be very important,” Holtz-Eakin said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  White House advisers acknowledge it will be difficult, if
not impossible, to find anyone who matches Summers’s knowledge
of economics and public policy, people familiar with the
selection say.  The announcement was made as the administration and
Democrats are preparing for November’s congressional elections.
Republicans are campaigning to regain control of Congress by
arguing that Obama’s policies haven’t done enough to help pull
the U.S. out of the recession.  Target for Republicans  Summers and Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  have
become targets of Republican leaders during the campaign. House
Republican Leader  John Boehner  of Ohio said in an Aug. 24
speech that Obama should fire the two officials, along with the
rest of the administration’s economic team.  Summers told Obama when he joined the administration that
he would only commit to serve for one year, according to a
White House official. Last year, Obama asked him to stay on to
see through the passage of financial-overhaul legislation, the
official said. He planned to return to Harvard in time for the
spring semester.  The departure of Summers will leave Geithner as the only
member of Obama’s original top-level economic team. Since the
end of July,  Peter Orszag , director of the Office of Management
and Budget, and  Christina Romer , head of the Council of
Economic Advisers, have resigned.  Summers’s Career  Summers, 55, earned his doctorate in economics at Harvard
in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and at 28 was granted tenure, the
youngest age anyone had gained tenure at the time. He spent
time on the staff of the White House Council of Economic
Advisers in the 1980s before joining the World Bank as chief
economist.  He was Clinton’s Treasury secretary from 1999 to 2001,
after which he became president of Harvard. Summers quit that
post in 2006 after a series of battles with the Faculty of Arts
and Sciences, which teaches most of the undergraduate courses,
and following a controversy over comments he made at a
conference, in which he suggested women lacked an aptitude for
science.  Within the Obama administration, Summers has been a
forceful advocate of his positions and sometimes clashed with
other advisers, people familiar with those matters said.  Obama may also seek someone who will serve more as a
broker for alternative policies rather than an advocate, Mann
said. “Larry’s a very strong person who has very strong
opinions,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  