-- Summers to Leave White House After Election
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-09-21T19:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/summers-may-leave-as-head-of-obama-s-national-economic-council-in-november.html
White House officials expect
 Lawrence Summers  to leave his job as the president’s  National
Economic Council  director after November’s congressional
elections, according to three people familiar with the matter.  His departure would leave Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  as the only member of President  Barack Obama ’s original
top-tier economic team. Summers, 55, and the president have
discussed his future plans, according to one person.  Administration officials are weighing whether to put a
prominent corporate executive in the NEC director’s job to
counter criticism that the administration is anti-business, one
person familiar with White House discussions said. White House
aides are also eager to name a woman to serve in a high-level
position, two people said. They also are concerned about finding
someone with Summers’ experience and stature, one person said.  The people familiar with White House discussions spoke on
condition of anonymity because no decisions have been made.  White House officials declined to comment directly on
Summers’ plans.  Robert Gibbs , Obama’s chief spokesman, said
today it “is not a surprise, that there will be people who have
worked enormously hard over the past few years to make decisions
to go back to doing” what they did before joining the
administration.  The second half of a president’s term typically is a time
of turnover in staff and advisers, many of whom also had roles
in the presidential campaign. Obama yesterday indicated he
realized that some members of his White House economic team may
leave.  ‘Tough’ Work  “This is tough, the work that they do,” he said in an
hour-long town hall discussion on the economy broadcast on CNBC.
“They’ve been at it for two years, and they’re going to have a
whole range of decisions about family that will factor into
this, as well.”  Since the end of July,  Peter Orszag , director of the Office
of Management and Budget, and  Christina Romer , the head of the
Council of Economic Advisers, left the administration.  Obama said yesterday he has “not made any determination
about personnel.” He praised Summers and Geithner, as well as
the rest of his economic advisers, saying that they “have done
an outstanding job.”  Summers was President  Bill Clinton ’s Treasury secretary
from 1999 to 2001, when he became president of Harvard
University. He earned his doctorate at Harvard in 1982 and
became the university’s youngest tenured professor at age 28. He
spent time on the staff of the White House Council of Economic
Advisers in the 1980s before joining the World Bank as chief
economist.  Summers has been a forceful advocate of his positions
within the administration and also urged restraint on issues
such as the economic stimulus and adoption of the “Volcker
Rule,” which limits banks from engaging in proprietary trading,
people familiar with discussions said.  In internal discussions, Summers has argued that the
administration needs to make more overtures to the business
community and has opposed political advisers who want the
president to strike a more populist tone, one person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  