-- Swatch Partner Hengdeli Plans to Sell $322 Million Bonds; Shares Decline
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   F r a n k   L o n g i d
-- 2010-09-21T09:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/swatch-partner-hengdeli-will-issue-322-million-of-bonds-to-fund-expansion.html
Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. , the retail
partner of  Swatch Group AG  in China, plans to sell HK$2.5
billion ($322 million) of convertible bonds to fund expansion
and acquisitions. The stock fell the most in almost a month.  Hengdeli  slid 6 percent to  close at HK$3.77 in Hong Kong
trading, the biggest decline since Aug. 26. The benchmark  Hang
Seng Index  rose 0.1 percent.  The  capital raising  is the second this month for the  Omega 
and Breguet watch retailer, which took advantage of its share-
price gain this year to sell HK$1.02 billion in stock.  Hengdeli 
is increasing its stores by 19 percent in Hong Kong, China and
Taiwan, which consume 27 percent of  Swiss watch exports .  “They’re definitely looking to expand quite aggressively
in China and are probably looking to buy rival retailers,”
 Renee Tai , vice president for  research  at CIMB-GK Securities HK
Ltd., said in a phone interview today. The stock may be falling
because investors are concerned about the “dilution” of their
holdings, said Tai, who  rates  Hengdeli “outperform.”  The debt the Hong Kong-based retailer is selling will be
due in 2015 with a conversion price of HK$4.9524, or 23.5
percent higher than yesterday’s closing price, it said in a
filing today.  Stock converted from the bonds will be equivalent to 10.34
percent of the company’s enlarged share capital,  Hengdeli  said.
Today’s share-price decline trims the watch retailer’s  gain  to
28 percent this year, compared with a 0.6 percent increase for
the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Standard Chartered Plc will manage
the sale.  Jewelry Venture  Hengdeli  plans to spend as much as 400 million yuan ($60
million) on store openings this year, Chairman  Zhang Yuping  said
Aug. 11. The company aims to open 50 outlets in China, Hong Kong
and Taiwan this year to take its total in the region to 320.  The watch seller also signed on Aug. 16 an agreement with
Ming Fung Jewellery Group Ltd. to develop a luxury jewelry
retail venture in greater China.  Hublot, the Swiss watch brand that timed the World Cup,
aims to more than double store numbers in Asia on Chief
Executive Officer  Jean-Claude Biver ’s conviction that China
offers at least 30 years of growth. The brand, owned by LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, plans 15 stores in Asia next
year, mostly in China, Biver said in Geneva Sept. 15.  Swatch, LVMH Stakes  Swatch Group , Switzerland’s largest watchmaker, owns a 9.1
percent stake in Hengdeli. LVMH, the world’s biggest luxury-
goods maker and owner of the Tag Heuer and Zenith watch brands,
holds 6.4 percent, according to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Hong Kong is the biggest market for Swiss watchmakers,
purchasing 199.5 million Swiss francs ($199 million) worth of
timepieces last month, according to data from the Federation of
the Swiss Watch Industry. That’s 52 percent more than last year
and 19 percent of the total. Exports of timepieces from
Switzerland to mainland China rose 4.4 percent in August to 74.4
million Swiss francs and grew 12.2 percent to 18.9 million Swiss
francs for Taiwan, according to the federation. Mainland China
excludes Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  