-- Swedes Protest on Streets as Anti-Immigrants Enter Parliament
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2010-09-21T12:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/swedes-throng-streets-to-protest-against-anti-immigrant-party-in-goverment.html
Thousands of Swedes demonstrated
against the Swedish Democrats as Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  struggles to form a government that doesn’t have to
rely on the anti-immigrant party after Sunday’s election.  About 10,000 people protested in central Stockholm late
yesterday while in Gothenburg, Sweden’s second-biggest city,
5,000 took part in a “sorrow march against racism” after the
Swedish Democrats got 5.7 percent of votes and their first seats
in parliament. About 2,000 protesters gathered in the southern
city of Malmoe.  Protesters waved banners that declared their support for
multiculturalism, including placards that said: “Refugees --
welcome!” and “No racists in our parliament.”  Reinfeldt, whose four-party coalition won 49.3 percent, has
reached out to the Green Party, part of the three-party
opposition bloc, to stop the Swedish Democrats from holding the
balance of power. They have so far rejected his overtures. All
groups in parliament have said they won’t work with the Swedish
Democrats, who want to reduce immigration by 90 percent.  “The banner of tolerance has been hauled down and the
forces of darkness have finally also taken the Swedish democracy
as a hostage,” Sweden’s Expressen newspaper wrote in an
editorial yesterday. “It’s a day of sorrow.”  ‘Dismay’  Many Swedes prided themselves on the fact that anti-
immigration parties had failed to get into parliament since 1994,
in contrast with its Scandinavian neighbors, where the Danish
People’s Party and Norway’s Progress Party are among the biggest
groupings. Sweden has also criticized Switzerland’s ban on
minarets at mosques and France’s deportation of Roma.  “While it’s hard to say that Sweden has woken up to a new
self-image, one can say that this is more like a normal European
situation and is similar to other western European countries
with a proportional election system, where a populist right-wing
party has seats in parliament,” said Carl Dahlstroem, a
political science professor at Gothenburg University. “It’s the
party that is the least liked among other voters, so it is not
surprising that people have reacted with dismay.”  While Reinfeldt’s government will probably have to rule as
a minority, it is only three seats short of a majority in the
349-member parliament. The ability of the Swedish Democrats to
act as kingmakers may be diminished if Reinfeldt finds support
among the opposition parties. The Green Party, which shares the
government’s stance on business-friendly policies, may back some
proposals and Reinfeldt may also find Social Democratic support
in other areas, Dahlstroem said.  Minority History  Reinfeldt has a “relatively big” chance of securing a
majority once all postal and foreign votes come in, Olle Folke,
a political scientist at Columbia University in the U.S., told
the Aftonbladet newspaper. The final count will be completed
tomorrow, according to the Swedish Election Authority.  Sweden has been ruled by minority governments since the
current one-chamber parliamentary system was introduced in 1971,
with the exception of six years of majority coalitions starting
in 1976, and the last four years under Reinfeldt.  “It is important to remember that a minority government is
nothing unusual in a proportional election system and it is
actually quite common in Sweden,” said Dahlstroem.  The country’s fiscal laws make it impossible to block a
budget bill unless the opposition can muster a majority of
lawmakers to back an alternative proposal. The other parties in
parliament have said they will shun the Swedish Democrats, which
also campaigned on promises to lower aid to foreign countries.
It has called Islam the greatest threat to Swedish society since
World War II.  Swastikas  In its election advertisement, an old lady with a zimmer
frame walking toward a desk to get cash from the authorities is
overtaken by a large group of women wearing black burqas pushing
their kids in prams. A speaker says voters now have the choice
to put the brakes on immigration, or on pensions.  Still, the party has improved its image. While swastikas
and Nazi salutes could be seen at its rallies in the 1990s, the
party’s leaders now dress in suits and ties and have distanced
themselves from the early neo-Nazi roots.  Support for the party was strongest in the Skaane province
in the southern tip of Sweden, where it got an average 10
percent of the vote and in neighboring Blekinge, where it got
9.9 percent.  That has angered many Swedes north of the region.  Some people are calling for Skaane to be cut off from the
rest of Sweden and handed back to Denmark, where the anti-
immigration Danish People’s Party is the third-largest party and
has acted as an inspiration for the Swedish Democrats.  Support for the party in the south increased after an
influx of immigrants in recent years, riots in immigrant-
populated areas in Malmoe and after a Swedish pensioner was
killed in a Landskrona parking lot.  It is “time for the Swedes to get themselves a new
national self-image” as the election “created a new picture of
Sweden,” Svenska Dagbladet daily said after the election in an
editorial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  