-- U.K. Posts Largest August Budget Deficit Since at Least 1993
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-09-21T10:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/u-k-posts-largest-august-budget-deficit-since-1993-boosting-case-for-cuts.html
Britain posted the largest  budget
deficit  for any August since records began in 1993 as debt costs
soared, underscoring the pressure on Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  to rein in record levels of borrowing.  Net borrowing was 15.3 billion pounds ($23.7 billion),
compared with 13.5 billion pounds a year earlier, the Office for
National Statistics said in London today. The median of 15
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was a shortfall of 12.5
billion pounds.  Osborne is preparing to slash the budgets of government
departments as he tries to eliminate a deficit that hit a record
155.6 billion pounds in the fiscal year through March, or 11
percent of gross domestic product. With tax revenue running
ahead of budget forecasts, the shortfall this year may still be
less than the 149 billion pounds predicted, analysts say.  “The figures are disappointing,” said  Philip Shaw , chief
economist at Investec Securities in London. “This is reminder
to markets that the U.K.’s deficit situation is not yet
sustainable and on a long hard road to anything that could be
labeled as sustainable.”  Government bond yields have tumbled since the coalition of
Conservatives and Liberal Democrats took office in May and vowed
to step up the pace of deficit reduction to avert a Greek-style
debt crisis.  The 2-year gilt yield was down 2 basis points today at
0.702 percent as of 11:14 a.m. in London. The pound lost 0.2
percent to $1.5512.  Credit Rating  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday the U.K. should be
able to maintain its top Aaa credit rating and the Bank of
England suggested a rally in the pound in the past three months
may reflect improved investor confidence in the public finances.  In his Oct 20. spending review, Osborne will cut department
budgets by a quarter on average in the deepest squeeze since
World War II.  The Office for Budget Responsibility, which oversees
Treasury forecasts, expects the deficit excluding government
support for the financial industry to fall to 10 percent of
economic output in the current fiscal year.  Borrowing on this measure in the first five months was 58.1
billion pounds, compared with 61.9 billion pounds a year
earlier. Central government current receipts rose 9 percent and
spending gained 6.5 percent.  The statistics office revised down borrowing in recent
months, saying the tax on bank bonus payments introduced by the
previous Labour government generated 1 billion pounds more than
thought.  Revenue, Spending  In August, revenue rose 6.3 percent, boosted by taxes on
sales and company profits. Government spending jumped 11
percent, the most since February. Debt-interest payments
almost tripled to 3.8 billion pounds, reflecting higher coupon
payments on index-linked gilts after retail-price inflation
accelerated. Spending growth may slow as 5.2 billion pounds of
savings planned for the current fiscal year take effect before
spending cuts begin in earnest from April 2011.  While broadly in line with budget forecasts, the figures
underline the need to tackle the deficit, the Treasury said in a
statement.  There was a public-sector cash requirement of 5.8 billion
pounds in August. Economists predicted an 8.1 billion-pound
shortfall. The central-government cash deficit, the measure the
Treasury says most closely indicates gilt sales, was 5.5 billion
pounds. Net debt climbed to 64 percent of GDP from 63.8 percent.  Labour says the scale of the fiscal tightening risks
throttling the economic recovery, and recent data suggest the
pace of expansion is cooling amid concern about the budget
squeeze and continued market turmoil in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  