-- CBI Cuts U.K. 2011 GDP Growth Forecast as Budget Squeeze Looms
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-09-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/u-k-economy-to-grow-slower-than-forecast-in-2011-on-budget-cuts-cbi-says.html
The U.K. economy will grow slower
than previously forecast next year as the biggest public
spending squeeze since World War II takes hold, the
Confederation of British Industry said.  Gross domestic product  will rise 2 percent next year, down
from a forecast in June of 2.5 percent, and the Bank of England
won’t raise interest rates until the second quarter, the U.K.’s
biggest business lobby said in London today. The group raised
its 2010 growth forecast to 1.6 percent from 1.3 percent.  “The action to get the public finances back onto a
sustainable footing will no doubt temper the recovery going into
2011,”  Ian McCafferty , the CBI’s chief economic adviser, said
in an e-mailed statement. “The outlook for growth in 2010 has
been lifted slightly, due to somewhat faster economic activity
in the second quarter.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government will next month
announce plans to cut departmental spending by about a quarter
on average as it tries to curb a  deficit  that hit 11 percent of
gross domestic product in the fiscal year through March. Britain
posted an August budget shortfall of 15.3 billion pounds ($23.8
billion), the biggest for the month since records began in 1993.  The CBI said measures to curb the government’s borrowings,
including an increase in sales tax starting in January, will
undermine job security while wage growth remains constrained,
limiting household consumption.  The tax increase will also prevent  inflation  from returning
to the Bank of England’s 2 percent target, the CBI said. The
rate of annual price gains, currently at 3.1 percent, will reach
3.2 percent at the end of 2010 and slow to 2.9 percent at the
end of next year, according to the forecasts.  Rate Forecast  The group forecasts the central bank will start increasing
the key  interest rate  from a record low of 0.5 percent in the
second quarter, reaching 1.25 percent by the end of 2011. It
previously predicted that policy makers would lift the key rate
to 1 percent in 2010 and to 2 percent by the end of next year.  The CBI’s increase to its 2010 growth forecast reflects the
“surprisingly strong” rate of expansion in the second quarter,
the report said. The U.K. grew 1.2 percent in the three-month
period, the fastest pace in nine years.  The weaker pound will help drive a revival in exports and
help net  trade  contribute to economic growth, according to the
forecasts. Sterling has dropped by about a fifth on a trade-
weighted basis since the start of 2007.  The U.K. Food and Drink Federation said in a separate
report today that exports of food and non-alcoholic drink rose
4.3 percent in the first half from a year earlier to 5 billion
pounds. The growth was driven by exports to markets outside the
European Union, and included a 35 percent increase in sales to
North America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  