-- U.K. Green Deal to Support 250,000 Insulation Jobs Nationwide, Huhne Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-09-21T14:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/u-k-green-deal-to-support-250-000-insulation-jobs-nationwide-huhne-says.html
The British government will create
a “whole new industry” supporting as many as 250,000 jobs
insulating 26 million homes, said  Chris Huhne , the Cabinet
minister in charge of climate and environment.  The “Green Deal” measures are aimed at curbing heat loss
in homes, which account for a quarter of the country’s carbon
dioxide emissions, Huhne said today at the Liberal Democrat
Party conference in Liverpool. He said the British use more
energy to heat homes than in Sweden, where average temperatures
in January are 7 degrees Celsius (13 Fahrenheit) colder.  “We might as well be standing outside burning 50-pound
notes,” Huhne said, according to a text of his speech at the
meeting in northwest England. Fifty pounds is about $78. “By
stopping this waste, we can make big savings on bills, and use
them to pay businesses for the cost of insulation.”  U.K. utilities need to spend 200 billion pounds over the
next decade to replace plants and infrastructure, according to
the energy regulator Ofgem. Huhne said he’ll push to develop
renewable energy, nuclear power, and carbon capture and storage
for both coal and gas-fired power plants to bring down
emissions.  “The days of dirty fossil fuels are over,” Huhne said.
“We in Britain can become to clean coal and gas what Germany is
to solar and wind, and France is to nuclear. And our low-carbon
policy will insure consumers, and businesses, against the oil
price shocks to come.”  Huhne plans to publish a draft law by year-end to make
 Centrica Plc ,  E.ON AG  and other energy providers pay to insulate
every home in the country, recovering the costs through savings
on customer energy bills. The Green Deal measures could see the
insulation industry expand from 26,000 jobs today to as many as
a 250,000, he said.  Nuclear Vs. Renewables  Huhne’s party is the junior partner in a coalition
government led by the Conservative Prime Minister  David Cameron .
Huhne said he will deliver on both Liberal Democrat policies,
and Conservative measures such as boosting nuclear power that
are opposed by his party, though included in the coalition
agreement.  “I’m fed up with the stand-off between renewable and
nuclear which means we have neither -- we will have both,” he
said. “We will have low carbon energy, and security of
supply.”  Calling climate change “the challenge of a generation,”
he said he’ll aim to boost the use of electric cars, high-speed
rail and ground and air-source heat pumps.  The lawmaker also said he will use his ministerial powers
to intervene if energy companies don’t tell customers about
price rises, and the government will insist on energy bills
providing more information about better deals available to
clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 