-- U.S. Stands By Greenhouse Emissions Pledge for Cancun Talks, Stern Says
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-09-21T18:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/u-s-stands-by-greenhouse-emissions-pledge-for-cancun-talks-stern-says.html
The Obama administration will stand
by a pledge to cut greenhouse gases and doesn’t plan to provide
details about how the goal will be met for climate talks
in Mexico this year, U.S. negotiator  Todd Stern  said.  The U.S. at the Cancun negotiations will reaffirm its plan
to reduce emissions tied to global warming about 17 percent by
2020, Stern told reporters today after a meeting of the world’s
largest polluting nations in New York.  More than 190 nations are to meet in Mexico in December
after talks in Copenhagen last year failed to produce a legally
binding agreement to fight climate change. Nations are asking
the U.S. how it will achieve its goal given that legislation to
require such cuts is stalled in Congress, Stern said.  The U.S. position on disclosing its plans is in line with
nations that also decline to provide a “bill of particulars”
in discussing emissions reductions, said Stern, who is President
 Barack Obama ’s lead climate treaty negotiator.  “It’s never been the practice,” he said.  The U.S. has many tools available to force reductions,
including greenhouse-gas regulations from the Environmental
Protection Agency, Stern said.  Stern said Congress will pass “meaningful” legislation to
combat climate change, though he “can’t say exactly when.”  A measure requiring a mandatory cap on U.S. greenhouse-gas
pollution passed the House of Representatives in 2009. The
Senate bill stalled and last month Democratic leaders said
lawmakers would scrap plans to pursue a bill this year. Last
year, when Obama made the 2020 pledge, the U.S. said the
reduction depended on action in Congress.  Progress Important  The U.S. and China were among 17 major generators of
greenhouse gases at today’s meeting. Participants agreed it is
important to make progress in Cancun, Stern said. The main focus
of the talks will be mitigation, transparency, finance,
adaptation and deforestation, he said.  Stern said that unlike Copenhagen, “nobody is anticipating
or expecting in any way a legal treaty to be done in Cancun this
year.”  “Expectations are not too high but also not low,” he
said. Nations will try “to make significant progress but on the
other hand not to have expectations to do things that aren’t
realistic at this point.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim Chipman in New York at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  