-- U.S. Seeks to Join Pfizer Whistleblower Lawsuit
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-09-21T22:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/u-s-joins-federal-suit-over-pfizer-liver-drug-according-to-court-filing.html
The U.S. Justice Department is
seeking to join a whistleblower lawsuit over  Pfizer Inc. ’s organ
transplant drug Rapamune alleging the medicine was illegally
marketed, according to court papers.  The government’s lawyers are asking a federal judge in
Philadelphia to allow them to take over litigating claims that
officials of Pfizer’s Wyeth unit pushed the drug for unapproved
uses and specifically targeted black patients.  “This means the government had determined that some or all
of the allegations in our complaint are merit worthy,”  Reuben Guttman , a Washington-based lawyer representing two former Wyeth
employees who filed suit over the practices, said in a telephone
interview today.  Rapamune is approved to help prevent the rejection of
kidney transplants. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration last
year found the drug may increase the risk of death and organ
rejection if given during a liver transplant.  Pfizer officials said today Rapamune’s warning label
included “appropriate caveats” about how the drug could be
used safely in connection with transplants.  “Pfizer has previously disclosed that the company is
cooperating with the U.S. government regarding its review of
Wyeth’s promotional practices involving Rapamune,”  Raymond Kerins , a Pfizer spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. New
York-based Pfizer bought Wyeth last year for $68 billion.  Marketing Tactics  After investigating the whistleblowers’ claims about
Wyeth’s Rapamune marketing tactics, Justice Department lawyers
concluded they had “good cause to intervene” in the case,
according to a court filing. U.S. District Judge  John R. Padova 
in Philadelphia still must approve the government’s request to
join the 2005 suit.  The complaint was filed by Marlene Sandler and Scott Paris,
two former Wyeth sales reps, who claim the drugmaker “directed
their entire Rapamune sales force” to promote the drug among
physicians involved in heart, lung, liver and pancreas
transplants. The drug hasn’t been approved for use in any of
those transplants, according to the complaint.  The whistleblowers also claim Wyeth officials offered
doctors and hospitals kickbacks, in the form of speaker fees and
grants, in exchange for Rapamune prescriptions.  Wyeth sales executives also targeted hospitals that served
black populations in an effort to get doctors to switch
transplant patients to Rapamune, according to the complaint. The
FDA required the drugmaker in 2004 to include a black-box
warning on Rapamune about such patient conversions, the suit
said. That is the FDA’s highest safety warning.  Pfizer officials said in February that federal prosecutors
in Oklahoma are investigating whether Wyeth’s Rapamune marketing
campaign violated any criminal laws. The drugmaker acknowledged
the probe in a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing.  The case is U.S. v. Wyeth Pharmaceuticals Inc, CA 05-6609,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 