-- U.S. Insurers May See Higher Capital Requirements
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-09-21T20:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/u-s-insurers-may-see-higher-capital-requirements-regulators-group-says.html
U.S. insurers may face increased
capital requirements under the financial-overhaul package
approved this year, said National Association of Insurance
Commissioners President  Jane Cline .  “There might be requirements to post additional capital,
depending on the structure,” Cline, who heads the group of
state regulators, said today at a conference hosted by KPMG LLP
in Brooklyn, New York. “We as the insurance regulators will
continue to watch the development” of the U.S. regulations as
they are implemented.  The NAIC eased capital requirements for insurers during the
financial crisis. Last year, insurers got about $7 billion of
capital relief on investments in residential mortgage-backed
securities. Regulators are now changing the rules for carriers
holding commercial mortgage-backed securities and hired
 BlackRock Inc.  to help set new standards.  BlackRock will review more than 7,000 securities by year-
end. The New York-based firm will calculate loss expectations
for the holdings, which will determine how much capital insurers
must hold to cushion potential declines.  Life insurance companies, led by MetLife Inc., asked for
relief last year after the capital required to protect against
losses on depressed mortgage investments soared. Regulators
discontinued their reliance on RMBS ratings issued by firms like
Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s and instead
hired Pacific Investment Management Co. to do the forecasting.  MetLife, the biggest U.S. life insurer, had about  $16
billion  in CMBS at the end of June, up from about $14 billion a
year earlier. It also held about $43 billion in RMBS. Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc. had about $8.7 billion in CMBS and
$4.8 billion in RMBS at the end of the second quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  