-- U.S. Loses No. 1 to Brazil-China-India Market in Investor Poll
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2010-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/u-s-loses-no-1-to-brazil-china-india-market-in-global-poll-on-investing.html
The U.S. has fallen behind emerging
markets in Brazil, China and India as the preferred place to
invest, a Bloomberg survey shows, though the world’s largest
economy still ranks highest of all major developed countries.  The U.S. ranked first three months ago in the last
quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll. Along with the slipping
perceptions of the U.S. markets in the most recent survey,
conducted Sept. 16-17, poll respondents say the Federal Reserve
is likely to take further steps to try to bolster the economy.  In the September poll of 1,408 investors, analysts and
traders who are Bloomberg subscribers, respondents rate the U.S.
fourth for potential returns over the next year, behind Brazil
and China, tied for first, and India, in third place.  The U.S. economic situation “is obviously unsustainable,
and the concerted attempt to suspend disbelief is playing
increasingly poorly abroad,” says poll respondent  Eric Kraus ,
chief strategist for Otkritie Brokerage House in Moscow. “One
can delay, but no one can forestall the unwind of a multidecade
credit bubble.”  Economic reports released since the June poll show U.S. GDP
growth slowed to 1.6 percent in the second quarter from 3.7
percent in the first quarter. In the final quarter of last year,
GDP grew at a 5.0 percent annual rate.  Expectations for U.S. GDP growth next year have dropped to
a median forecast of 2.5 percent in September from 2.9 percent
in June, according to Bloomberg’s monthly survey of economists.  S&P Rise  Since the June survey, U.S. stock markets have been on the
rise. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has risen 3.62 percent
since the last investor poll was completed June 3. That’s not as
much as Brazil’s  Bovespa Index , which is up 10.56 percent and
India’s Bombay Stock Exchange  Sensitive Index , which is up 10.44
percent. The U.S. stocks still did better than China’s  Shanghai
Stock Exchange  Composite  Index , which has risen 1.41 percent
since June 3.  “I think the U.S. will get back on track, but not in the
next 6-12 months,” says poll respondent  Thomas Knudsen , a
senior trader with OW Supply & Trading in Copenhagen.  Two-thirds of investors say they believe Federal Reserve
policy makers, who meet today, will ease monetary policy through
bond purchases by the end of the year. A similar 65 percent
majority say the Fed bond purchases won’t boost U.S. economic
growth.  Overall, investors give the central bank favorable marks,
with a 57 percent majority believing its monetary policy is
“about right.” More say it has been too aggressive, the view
of 26 percent, than say it has been too timid, a view held by 14
percent.  Popular Bernanke  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is viewed favorably by 71
percent of respondents, up from 67 percent in June. He ranks
highest in a list of eight global leaders and policy makers that
includes President  Barack Obama , Chancellor  Angela Merkel  of
Germany and European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet .  Only 1 out of 6 investors believes the U.S. economy is
currently improving, though a 45 percent plurality considers the
U.S. “stable.” Another 37 percent believe the U.S. is
deteriorating.  The poll also shows that confidence in the dollar has
slipped since June, when 63 percent of investors believed the
U.S. currency would rise against the euro during the following
three months. Forecasts are now evenly divided: 34 percent now
expect a stronger dollar in three months; 32 percent expect
little change; and 30 percent a weaker dollar.  The Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted by Selzer & Co., of
Des Moines, Iowa, and has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.6
percentage points.  No ‘Lost Decade’  Investors are confident the U.S. will avoid some of the
worst outcomes. Seven out of 10 investors say they believe there
is little or no risk of a U.S. double-dip recession. Six out of
10 investors see little or no risk the U.S. will endure a Japan-
like “Lost Decade” of minimal or no growth.  “There is a black cloud overhead, but the worst is not yet
to come,” says J.  Ann Selzer , president of Selzer & Co.  Still, investors are wary of the record  U.S. budget
deficits . A 53 percent majority sees a big or moderate risk the
 budget deficit  will provoke a crisis of confidence within two
years that will spur “a dramatic rise” in long-term interest
rates.  Poll respondent  Dieter Buchholz , head of equities at Falcon
Private Bank in Zurich, said market sentiment could turn against
U.S. debt if the bipartisan debt commission appointed by Obama
fails to spur a credible reduction in long-term deficits or
Congress bucks the White House to expand the deficit by
extending  Bush-era tax cuts  for the wealthy.  ‘Confidence Crisis’  “When the non-Americans see that efforts by the
administration to balance the budget are fruitless, then I think
you will get a confidence crisis,” Buchholz said.  In July, the White House budget office forecast the federal
deficit would be a record $1.47 trillion for 2010 and $1.42
trillion for the 2011 fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1.  Poll respondents were evenly split on whether the current
U.S. Treasury bond market is a bubble. In six months, 49 percent
expect  yields  on the 10-year Treasury note to be higher versus
26 percent who expect yields to be lower.  Their view of the U.S. stock market is bullish: 49 percent
expect the S&P 500 to be higher in six months, while 28 percent
say it will be lower.  Poll respondents in the U.S. are more optimistic about
their nation as a place for investment; 35 percent of U.S.
investors name it as a top market, just behind Brazil. Outside
the U.S., that number drops to 17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Dorning  in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 