-- U.S. Wind Turbine Market Forecast Cut By 23% By MAKE
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2010-09-21T11:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/u-s-wind-turbine-market-2010-2015-forecast-cut-by-23-at-make-consulting.html
Wind turbine installations will
grow more slowly in the U.S., the world’s second-largest market,
because of an “unfavorable” policy environment and “adverse”
macro-economic conditions, MAKE Consulting said.  Little or no growth is expected this year in the U.S., the
Hoejbjerg, Denmark-based consultant said today on its website.
MAKE Consulting lowered its forecast for wind turbine
installations in the U.S. by 23 percent from 2010 to 2015.  “The slow recovery of the U.S. economy coupled with
continued weakness in natural gas prices has provided a headwind
for U.S. wind turbine sales,” the industry consultant said.
“After years of strong growth, the U.S. wind energy market is
bracing itself for a precipitous drop in annual turbine
installations.”  Prices of natural gas, an energy source that complements
wind energy, continue to be “weak,” hurting wind turbine
sales, MAKE said. In addition, efforts by some U.S. governors to
revive federal legislation for renewable energy will probably
not result in more funding, the consultant added.  Turbine installations in the U.S. may fall to 6 gigawatts
this year from about 9 gigawatts in 2009, Bloomberg New Energy
Finance said in August. Manufacturers of wind equipment are
operating at 25 percent less than than full capacity, and poor
demand is leading to lower prices for new orders.  Shares of  Clipper Windpower Plc , the London-traded wind-
turbine manufacturer, yesterday sank 30 percent after it said
“significant” strain on its cash position is creating a
“material uncertainty” about the company’s operations.  Vestas
Wind Systems A/S  sank for a fifth day in Copenhagen trading.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Berlin at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net  