-- TUC Chief Urges ‘Drastic Realignment’ of Bankers’ Pay
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-09-21T14:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/tuc-chief-urges-drastic-realignment-of-bankers-financial-compensation.html
Britain’s top labor leader,  Brendan Barber , called for a “drastic realignment” of bankers’ pay as
Liberal Democrat ministers told lenders they may face more taxes
unless they keep bonus payments low.  “We still haven’t found the right mechanisms to change the
culture in the banks,” Barber, the general secretary of the
 Trades Union Congress , said in a interview today in Liverpool,
northwest England, where he is attending the Liberal Democrats’
annual party conference.  “I’m very much concerned that the mindset is still
business as usual,” Barber said. “The banks haven’t changed
their reward system in any fundamental way and they are still
not serving the needs of the wider economy, with the rate of
lending going into the wider economy depressingly low.”  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  and Business Secretary
 Vince Cable  told activists at the party conference this week
that bankers remain a target for the government even as the
financial crisis ebbs. Cable said yesterday that banks face “a
potential train crash” if they pay out big bonuses this year.  “I think we need a drastic realignment of the level of
rewards. People getting 2 million, 3 million, 4 million, 5
million packages is totally unjustified and needs a total
rethink,” Barber said. The TUC represents more than 6 million
workers.  ‘Serious Action’  “It’s incredibly important that the banks understand you
cannot possible award yourself ludicrously sky-high bonuses,”
Clegg told BBC Radio 4 today. “If the banks pay themselves
unjustified bonuses, we reserve the right to take very serious
action.”  The business secretary said the government was considering
implementing a bank tax proposed by the International Monetary
Fund if lending to businesses doesn’t increase and if banks
don’t moderate pay.  The stock of lending to U.K. businesses by British banks
and building societies contracted by 2.5 billion pounds in July,
and lending to British companies has “remained subdued” since
the end of 2008, the Bank of England said yesterday.  Figures released today showed banks paid 40 percent more
than predicted in a one-off bonus tax to the government,
suggesting the levy on payrolls in force from December 2009 to
April 2010 failed to limit executive pay.  Lenders paid 3.5 billion pounds ($5.4 billion) by Aug. 31.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said in June he
expected to raise 2.5 billion pounds from the tax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in Liverpool, England at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 