-- Muni Debt Cost May Increase on Tougher Bank Capital Rules, RBC Report Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-09-21T18:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/muni-debt-cost-may-increase-on-tougher-bank-capital-rules-rbc-report-says.html
State and local governments using
banks as buyers of last resort for variable-rate bonds may see
the cost of the debt rise by a percentage point or more because
of rules intended to strengthen the financial system, according
to RBC Capital Markets.  The measures, known as Basel III for the Swiss city where
world banking regulators meet, would require banks to hold more
capital to absorb unexpected losses and more cash to make them
less vulnerable in a financial crisis. The steps would increase
banks costs, which may be passed on to customers including local
governments, RBC said in a report today.  “The Basel III capital and liquidity rules will
significantly increase the cost and decrease the availability of
bank credit facilities,”  Chris Mauro , RBC’s head of U.S.
municipals strategy, said in the report. State and local
governments facing the expiration of $101 billion of bank
support agreements in 2011 should expect renewals to last only
to the Jan. 1, 2015, start date for the new proposed rules, the
report said.  “Issuers will be under considerable pressure” to replace
their variable-rate bonds with fixed-rate debt, the report said.
Local issuers may also need to consider new kinds of floating-
rate securities, where investors don’t have the right to sell at
face value with as little as a few hours’ notice, RBC said.
Without that promise to investors, no bank backing is needed.  Termination Fees  Replacing the variable-rate obligations with fixed-rate
debt may be costly for issuers with interest-rate swaps, for
which they would have to pay termination fees, the report said.
The cost of the fees would be offset at least partially by lower
rates on the new fixed-rate bonds.  Since the credit crunch of 2008, the cost of bank credit
agreements for variable-rate bonds has risen as some banks
stopped writing agreements and others boosted prices. There are
about $390 billion of variable-rate municipal bonds, down from a
peak of $525 billion before 2008, the bank said.  Massachusetts  decided this year to issue floating-rate
bonds that don’t have bank backing, after it received bids of
0.80 percentage point or more to replace agreements that cost
0.12 percentage point five years ago, according to  Colin MacNaught , the state’s debt manager.  The bank agreements, called letters of credit, or standby
purchase agreements, require banks to buy variable-rate bonds if
other investors can’t be found at the interest rate set by the
issuers’ remarketing agent, usually daily or weekly. That
promise makes the bonds eligible for purchase by money-market
mutual funds, and allows local governments to borrow at lower,
short-term interest rates, averaging 0.27 percent in the week
ended Sept. 15, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  