-- UniCredit CEO Profumo's Wife Ratti Says Husband Resigned
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-09-21T22:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/unicredit-chief-profumo-resigns-after-clashing-with-board-on-libyan-stakes.html
UniCredit SpA  Chief Executive
Officer  Alessandro Profumo  resigned, ending his 13-year tenure
as head of Italy’s largest bank, after he clashed with
shareholders over Libyan investments in the company.  UniCredit’s board requested Profumo’s resignation, his wife
Sabina Ratti told reporters outside the offices of the Milan law
firm representing Profumo late yesterday. Directors appointed
Chairman  Dieter Rampl , 63, to run the bank on an interim basis,
news agency Ansa reported.  UniCredit will release a statement today, a bank official
said. Profumo and the board reached an agreement on his
severance payment, Ratti said. The settlement amount is in line
with figures reported by Italian newspapers, she said. Turin
daily La Stampa said Profumo rejected an exit payment of about
35 million euros.  Some of UniCredit’s largest shareholders asked Profumo to
resign after he failed to tell them of the intention of Libyan
investors to raise their stakes, people with knowledge of the
discussions said Sept. 20. The Libyan Investment Authority, a
sovereign wealth fund, recently increased its  holding  in the
Milan-based bank by 0.5 percent to 2.6 percent, while the
Central Bank of Libya holds almost 5 percent.  Profumo’s departure will mean a “hole in the leadership
and strategic uncertainty, with the risk of more political
influence in business decisions,”  Anna Maria Benassi , an
analyst at Banca Leonardo, wrote in a note yesterday.  UniCredit  fell  41 cents, or 2.1 percent, to 1.90 euros in
Milan trading, bringing the decline  this year  to 15 percent and
valuing the company at 36.7 billion euros ($48.2 billion).
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA , Italy’s second-largest bank, declined 22
percent this year.  International Purchases  Profumo, 53, a former McKinsey & Co. consultant, used the
opening of the European markets brought about by the euro to
expand outside of Italy. UniCredit spent about $60 billion on
European  takeovers  from 2005 to 2008 to become the sixth-largest
bank in the 16 nations sharing the euro with 954.6 billion euros
of  assets  at the end of June.  Purchases included Munich-based HVB Group AG, Germany’s
third-biggest bank. UniCredit also owns the largest lenders in
Poland, which is vying to join the euro, and Austria, and
operates in 22 countries. The bank also purchased Rome-based
Capitalia SpA in 2007, just before the start of the credit
crisis.  Rising loan losses in Germany and eastern Europe ate into
the bank’s reserves when the financial crisis hit, forcing
Profumo to announce a 6.6 billion-euro  capital increase  in
October 2008, four days after denying the need for more funds.
At the time, he admitted the mistakes of underestimating the
length and depth of the crisis and making acquisitions at the
top of the market.  Profumo tapped investors for funds in January of this year,
when the bank raised 4 billion euros in a  rights offer .  Shares Tumble  The shares, which more than quadrupled during Profumo’s
first two years on the job, have  dropped  70 percent from their
peak in April 2007. That compares with a 30 percent  decline  from
the pre-crisis high at  Banco Santander SA , Spain’s largest bank,
which has also pursued an international  expansion .  Investor pressure in March forced Profumo to delay the
approval of a reorganization plan, and tensions flared again
over Libya. He should have informed other shareholders about the
intention of the Libyan investors to raise their stakes, said
Flavio Tosi, the mayor of the city of Verona, the biggest
shareholder of Fondazione Cariverona, UniCredit’s fourth-largest
investor.  UniCredit should pay less attention to fostering
international ties and more on its home market, especially
northern Italy, Tosi said. He is a member of the Northern
League, the party in the governing coalition of Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  that has criticized the Libya investments.  Italy’s banking foundations are non-profit entities created
in 1990, when the government started privatizing lenders. The
foundations were formed to separate the savings banks’
philanthropic work from the lenders, which became corporations.
They retain stakes in Italy’s biggest banks, including UniCredit
and Milan-based  Intesa Sanpaolo  SpA, investments that fund their
philanthropic expenditures.  Balancing Needs  Born in Genoa to a Sicilian family, Profumo graduated from
Milan’s  Bocconi University , then spent 10 years at Como, Italy-
based Banco Lariano. In 1987, he joined McKinsey’s Milan office
as a consultant to financial companies. He then joined Bain
Cuneo, another consulting firm, in Milan in 1989.  He became CEO of Credito Italiano in 1997, and transformed
the lender into UniCredit, a bank with operations stretching
from the U.S. to Kazakhstan.  Balancing the needs of local and international investors
will be a challenge for whoever succeeds Profumo, analysts said.
The new manager will also have to decide on the future of
UniCredit’s Pioneer Global Asset Management unit, after Profumo
began reviewing options for the division, including a possible
sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  