-- UnitedHealth to Acquire A-Life, San Diego Maker of Software
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-09-21T20:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/unitedhealth-to-buy-software-maker-a-life-medical-in-fourth-deal-this-year.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. said it
will buy  A-Life Medical Inc ., a closely held maker of medical-
coding software, in its fourth purchase this year of a company
focused on helping doctors and hospitals reduce costs.  A-Life assists more than 40,000 U.S. physicians with
billing, processing more than 5 million transactions monthly,
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based UnitedHealth, the biggest U.S.
health plan by sales, said in a statement today. Terms weren’t
disclosed. A-Life, based in San Diego, will join Ingenix,
UnitedHealth’s health-technology and consulting unit.  UnitedHealth  is expanding beyond health benefits to serve
hospitals, physicians and employers coping with rising medical
costs and declining pay from government insurance programs,
Chief Executive  Stephen Hemsley  said during a July 21 conference
call. The insurer has announced  deals  since July for a hospital-
consulting company, a software vendor for emergency rooms, and a
maker of computer networks to share medical records.  “Even as the volume of medical claims grows, health care
providers face increasing pressure to reduce administrative
costs,” said Bill Miller, an executive vice-president at
Ingenix, in the statement. “These challenges will become more
acute as 30 million more Americans obtain health insurance
because of health-care reform, and as regulatory requirements
such as the transition to the ICD-10 coding system come into
effect.”  A-Life generated  $17.1 million  in revenue in 2009, up from
$8.8 million three years earlier, Inc. magazine said on Aug. 24
in its annual list of the fastest-growing U.S. companies. The
magazine said the figures were reported by the company.  UnitedHealth rose 33 cents, or less than a percent, to
$35.26 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
before the company’s announcement. The shares have risen 23
percent in 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  