-- Cameron, Lula Absence Shows UN Losing Ground to G-20 Summits
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2010-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/university-of-california-40-year-bonds-pay-price-of-state-s-budget-impasse.html
World leaders are cutting back
their visits to the United Nations  General Assembly session  this
week as they find the Group of 20 and other smaller gatherings
more effective venues to debate international problems.  British Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Brazilian
President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva, whose countries both sit on
the UN Security Council, won’t be in New York. Nor will Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev  and Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin .
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  is skipping the UN week, handing off
the duty to Premier  Wen Jiabao .  “The UN is where you give a speech but there’s no group
meeting,” said  Jeffrey Shafer , who organized Group of Eight
meetings as President  Bill Clinton ’s “sherpa” or personal
representative to the gatherings. “The G-20 will have a more
focused agenda than the UN, and it shows the primacy of the
economic agenda.”  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  made a one-day appearance
in New York yesterday to speak to a session on fighting
developing-nation poverty. Like German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ,
who is staying for two days, Sarkozy will leave before the major
speeches start Sept. 23 from the podium of the General Assembly
hall.  “It’s the 80-20 rule,” said  Michael Hodin , an adjunct
senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in New York.
More issues are being decided at smaller groups, including the
Group of 20, which holds its next meeting in Seoul in November,
Hodin said.  “If you’re dealing with something in the G-20, you’re
already dealing with the 80 percent of world leaders who can
make a difference,” he said.  Corridors, Hotels  Since the UN was founded in the aftermath of World War II,
the annual opening of the General Assembly has been a place for
leaders to meet, often informally in the UN’s corridors or the
conference rooms of Manhattan luxury hotels, away from the media
attention and political expectations that accompany state visits
and formal encounters.  Last year’s G-20 summit in Pittsburgh, held immediately
after the main General Assembly session in New York, let leaders
get two meetings out of a single trip. And a major issue on the
UN agenda got an airing there, too.  In a joint appearance in Pittsburgh, President Barack Obama,
Sarkozy and then-U.K. Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  announced that
Iran had been secretly building an underground nuclear fuel
plant in violation of international rules.  Doubts About UN  The failure of the UN climate talks in Copenhagen to
produce a comprehensive treaty to combat global warming showed
many leaders the world body’s inability to move swiftly, said
Daniel Price, a sherpa to President  George W. Bush  for G-8 and
G-20 summits.  Add to that the crowded slate of summit meetings to attend
and it is understandable that high-level participation at the UN
meeting is waning, said Price, now a partner at law firm Sidley
Austin in Washington.  “There’s a measure of leader fatigue setting in,” he
said. “When it comes to solving specific, identifiable
problems, leaders are finding smaller groupings are more
effective.”  Sarkozy, whose country has the G-20 chairmanship next year,
has called the UN anachronistic. “We can’t confront the 21st
century with the institutions of the 20th century,” he said in
May.  Domestic Agendas  Domestic priorities also are playing a role this year, say
several governments. Merkel will return to Germany from New York
to pursue health-care policy at her weekly Cabinet meeting. The
day the general debate opens at the UN, she will speak at the
opening of a new pharmaceutical research center.  The U.K.’s Cameron, whose wife had a baby in mid-September,
is sending his junior coalition partner, deputy Prime Minister
and Liberal Democrat leader  Nick Clegg .  Brazil’s Lula is staying home to campaign on behalf of his
handpicked successor,  Dilma Rousseff , before Oct. 3 presidential
elections. Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  hasn’t confirmed
whether he will attend and miss the final days of campaigning
before Sept. 26 legislative elections.  South African President  Jacob Zuma  will stay home for a
ruling party conference at which he is battling criticism about
economic policies. He will participate in the UN gathering via
video conference and co-chair a session on climate change.  Obama , who has the shortest travel time of all leaders,
will stay for three days, addressing both the UN’s 
 Millennium Development Goals  summit and the opening of the
General Assembly. He will also meet with Southeast Asian leaders
and hold a summit on Sudan.  China Talks  Obama will take advantage of his visit to confer with
China’s Wen on topics including Hu’s planned January visit to
Washington.  The U.S.-China relationship requires a lot of maintenance,
resembling couples therapy for a fraught marriage, and the UN
meeting provides an ideal venue for handholding, said  Orville Schell , director of the Center for U.S.-China Relations at the
Asia Society in New York.  The dearth of world leaders at this year’s UN session may
not be surprising, said Bruce Jones, a senior fellow with the
Washington-based  Brookings Institution  policy organization.  “They probably made a mistake to schedule the development
summit and the general debate back to back, because not a lot of
world leaders have six days to spend in New York,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  