-- Uranium Prices at 10-Month High Attract Hedge Funds, Investors, UxC Says
-- B y   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-09-21T08:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/uranium-prices-at-10-month-high-attract-hedge-funds-investors-uxc-says.html
Uranium is drawing interest from
investors including hedge funds after prices for the nuclear
fuel climbed to the highest level in more than 10 months,
according to Ux Consulting Co.  Uranium-oxide concentrate for immediate delivery remained
at $48 a pound for a third week, Roswell, Georgia-based UxC said
yesterday in a report. Prices are up 19 percent from this year’s
low in March.  Hedge funds also were in the uranium market six years ago,
 Jeff Combs , UxC’s president, said yesterday by phone. At that
time, prices of the radioactive element were starting a surge in
which they would jump more than fivefold in the three years
through 2006. Uranium almost doubled again in 2007, reaching a
record $136 a pound in June of that year.  “Interest from hedge funds and investors has started to
re-emerge,” Combs said. “We did see it in 2004. Investors and
hedge funds were getting interested, and they were ahead of the
curve then. The question now is, is this the next up leg in the
market?”  Price gains sped up after 2004 as governments around the
world promoted nuclear energy in a bid to reduce dependence on
fossil-fuel imports and curb emissions. Increased Chinese and
Indian nuclear-power usage will help to maintain “strong” fuel
demand, Energy Resources of Australia Ltd., the uranium producer
controlled by Rio Tinto Group, said in May of this year.  Better Supply  The main difference compared with six years ago is improved
supply of uranium, according to Combs. Output more than
quadrupled in Kazakhstan, the world’s biggest producer, from
2003 to last year, according to figures from the World Nuclear
Association. Production was little changed in 2009 in second-
ranking Canada compared with 2003, WNA figures show.  “A key question is what the Kazakhs will do with respect
to production in the future,” Combs said.  Kazatomprom, the state-owned Kazakh nuclear company, aims
to raise uranium production by 29 percent to about 18,000 metric
tons this year, Vice President Galimzan Pirmatov said on Sept.
16. Planned expansion may boost annual output to 25,000 tons by
2016, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 