-- Turkey Beating Budget Goal, May Have Spending Room, Simsek Says
-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2010-09-21T09:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/turkey-is-beating-its-budget-goal-may-have-room-for-spending-simsek-says.html
Turkey’s government may have room
to accelerate spending in the run-up to next year’s elections
without breaching the target for the  budget deficit , Finance
Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said.  The country’s  economic rebound  has outpaced government
projections, Simsek said in an interview in Istanbul on Sept.
17. That may allow Turkey to invest more in developing its
infrastructure even as it reduces debt as a proportion of output
faster than planned, he said.  “The targets are within reach, so we’ll deliver on that,”
Simsek said. “But if we have some extra room, and if there are
some reasonable demands that would ultimately help boost
productive capacity, then probably they will be accommodated.”  Turkey’s economy grew at an  annual  rate of more than 10
percent in the first two quarters, outpacing all other members
of the Group of 20 major economies bar China. The government,
which had based its budget on 3.5 percent growth, has been urged
by the International Monetary Fund and the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development to save any extra revenue
instead of spending it.  The budget  deficit  in the first eight months of the year
was 14.4 billion liras ($9.7 billion), compared with a full-year
target of 50.2 billion liras. The eight-month primary surplus,
excluding interest payments, was 20.9 billion liras, more than
triple the target of 6.6 billion liras for the whole year.  With elections due by July, some investors have expressed
concern that Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  will loosen the
purse strings to help win re-election for a third term. The 2011
budget must be submitted to parliament by Oct. 17.  Fiscal ‘Stretch’  Erdogan’s government “will stretch the fiscal
opportunities to the extent that it can in 2011,”  Guldem Atabay , chief economist at Ekspres Invest in Istanbul, said in a
Sept. 13 report.  Erdogan this month dropped plans to legislate a so-called
fiscal rule, backed by the IMF, which would require governments
to target a budget deficit of 1 percent of gross domestic
product. In May, he broke off talks on a new accord with the
IMF, which has overseen the country’s public finances for most
of the past two decades as a condition for loans.  Simsek said he understood investor concerns, and pointed to
Erdogan’s track record of reducing budget deficits, and the
benefits Turkey has reaped from it.  “We’ve had four elections in the past eight years and on
average we’ve done reasonably well in terms of maintaining
fiscal discipline,” he said. “They should look at our track
record. Even without an IMF program, without an explicit fiscal
rule, they will notice that we’ve done a good job.”  Deficits Narrow  Turkey’s budget deficit averaged 1.3 percent of GDP in the
four years from 2005, before widening to 5.5 percent last year
after the global crisis curbed  exports  and foreign investment.
In the decade through 2003, the average deficit was 9.6 percent,
according to Finance Ministry data.  The country’s  debt , which was more than 70 percent of GDP
in 2002, may drop to the “low 40s” this year, beating the
government target of 49 percent, Simsek said.  The improvement in Turkey’s public finances under Erdogan,
who came to power in 2003, sparked a boom in foreign investment.
The arrival of companies such as Citigroup Inc., which bought a
20 percent stake in Turkish lender  Akbank TAS  in 2006, and
Vodafone Group Plc helped the economy grow at an annual pace
averaging about 5 percent a year.  The  benchmark ISE-100 stock index  has surged almost sixfold
since the end of 2002, and has added 22 percent so far this
year, four times the gain on the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index .
 Yields  on benchmark two-year lira bonds have dropped to about 8
percent, from almost 25 percent in 2004.  ‘Not an Island’  Asked whether those market gains will continue, Simsek, a
London-based economist at Merrill Lynch & Co. before he joined
Erdogan’s government in 2007, said he’s “left that hat in
London.” He said, though, that Turkish assets will perform
better than those of other emerging-market economies because of
the country’s fundamental strengths, including “long-term
demographics and productivity patterns.”  “We’re not an island,” he said. “If the rest of the
world is going to struggle then clearly that would impact us,
but the chances are we are going to outperform.”  Simsek rejected calls from Turkey’s exporters for active
management of the exchange rate to weaken the lira, which has
gained almost 10 percent against the euro this year, and make
the country’s goods more competitive. Turkey has a customs
agreement with the European Union, which it’s in talks to join,
and sends the biggest share of its exports there.  “We can’t cure Turkey’s structural problems purely by
focusing on the exchange rate,” Simsek said. “We need to make
the Turkish economy more competitive and more productive. That
is the core solution. It’s a tough one, but there are no quick
fixes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Bentley  in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 