-- Murkowski May Get Stripped by Republicans of Senate Panel Post
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-09-22T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/murkowski-may-lose-u-s-senate-energy-panel-post-over-write-in-candidacy.html
Senator  Lisa Murkowski  may lose her
position as top Republican on the Energy and Natural Resources
Committee as a result of her decision to seek re-election as a
write-in candidate, Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said.  The Senate Republican caucus will meet today to determine
“whether or not it’s appropriate for her, under the
circumstances, to continue as ranking member” on the
committee, McConnell, of Kentucky, told reporters yesterday.  Murkowski, of Alaska, declared her write-in candidacy on
Sept. 18 after she was defeated in her state’s Republican Senate
primary last month. Murkowski, who was seeking nomination to a
second full term, lost to  Joe Miller , a lawyer from Fairbanks
and a former U.S. magistrate judge.  Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas, head of the National
Republican Senatorial Committee, said yesterday that stripping
Murkowski of her ranking committee post is “the appropriate
thing to do” because “when you choose not to accept the
judgment of the primary voters and you run as a write-in and not
be the nominee, then it has consequences.”  As the energy panel’s top Republican, Murkowski takes the
lead for the party in trying to shape legislation by negotiating
with the committee’s chairman, Democratic Senator  Jeff Bingaman 
of New Mexico.  Resignation  Murkowski, at McConnell’s urging, resigned her leadership
post as the vice chairwoman of Senate Republican Conference as
she launched her write-in campaign.  “I informed her that by choosing to run a campaign against
the Republican nominee, she no longer has my support for serving
in any leadership roles,” McConnell said in a statement he
issued immediately after Murkowski made her announcement in
Alaska.  Murkowski, 53, said she was getting back into the race
because “we cannot accept the extremist views of Joe Miller.”  Miller 43, was backed by former Alaska Governor  Sarah Palin 
and Tea Party activists who promote limited government and lower
taxes.  Murkowski replaced her father,  Frank Murkowski , in the
Senate seat after he was elected Alaska’s governor in 2002 and
then named her as his successor. She won a full term in 2004,
defeating Democrat  Tony Knowles  by three percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in New York at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  