-- Vatican `Surprised' by Probe of Money Laundering, Pledges Transparency
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-09-21T16:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/vatican-expresses-surprise-at-bank-money-laundering-probe-of-chairman.html
The Holy See said its financial
transactions were transparent and expressed “surprise” after
the Vatican Bank and its chairman  Ettore Gotti Tedeschi  were
targeted for alleged violations of money-laundering laws.  “It is well known that the authorities of the Holy See
have frequently manifested a clear desire for full transparency
regarding the financial operations of the Institute for Works of
Religion,” or IOR, as the Vatican Bank is called, the Vatican
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Italian police today temporarily froze 23 million euros
($30 million) from an account registered to the IOR as Rome
prosecutors probe Gotti Tedeschi for alleged violation of money-
laundering laws, Italian media including Ansa news agency said,
without citing anyone.  The Vatican Bank, after a series of scandals including
involvement in the fraudulent bankruptcy of Banco Ambrosiano in
the 1980s, is under pressure to adopt new financial standards
following a 2009 push by the Group of 20 nations for greater
transparency. The IOR has been working “for some time” with
the Bank of Italy and the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development “for the Holy See’s inclusion in the so-called
White List,” according to the statement, referring to the OECD
list for jurisdictions that implement its global tax standards.  Wire Transfers  Finance Police froze the funds from an IOR account at
Credito Artigiano SpA after the Bank of Italy’s financial
intelligence unit on Sept. 15 suspended two wire transfers from
the account for omitting information in possible violation of
money-laundering laws, daily Il Sole 24 Ore reported today.  A spokesman for Credito Artigiano in Milan declined to
comment when contacted by telephone by Bloomberg News.  The funds were to be transferred to non-Italian banks for
use by the IOR, and the “necessary information was already
available at the competent Bank of Italy office, and analogous
transactions frequently take place with other Italian credit
institutes,” the Vatican said.  The Holy See expressed “surprise” and “bewilderment” at
the operation, and “full confidence” in Gotti Tedeschi. The
65-year-old, appointed in September 2009, is also non-executive
chairman of Santander Consumer Bank in Italy and a professor of
financial ethics at Milan’s Catholic University.  ‘Deeply Humiliated’  Gotti Tedeschi said he felt “deeply humiliated” by the
probe, Italian news agency AdnKronos said today, citing a phone
interview with him. The IOR chairman said he has been striving
since his appointment “to tackle the very issue for which I am
now under investigation.”  Today’s action came after the Bank of Italy on Aug. 27
recommended that the country’s lenders pay closer scrutiny to
financial transactions with institutions in nations outside the
European Union that are not on the OECD’s white list.  “The Bank of Italy’s focus on IOR activities shows that
the wall of silence that has long existed between Italy and the
pope’s bank has now broken down,” Gianluigi Nuzzi, author of
Vaticano SpA, a 2009 book about the IOR, said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 