-- Vattenfall to Sell Assets, Cut Costs as Sweden's Possible Stake Sale Looms
-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-09-21T10:37:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/vattenfall-to-sell-assets-cut-costs-as-sweden-s-possible-stake-sale-looms.html
Vattenfall AB  will cut costs and
investments and divest assets to focus on its home market,
Germany and the Netherlands as the Swedish government may start
preparations to sell a stake in the largest Nordic utility.  Vattenfall will lower costs by 6 billion kronor ($863
million) a year and cut investments to 165 billion kronor in the
five years through 2015 from 201 billion kronor in the current
five-year program, the Stockholm-based company said today.  “We want to explore the possibility of divesting assets
that are defined as non-core that can also create financial
flexibility,” Chief Executive Officer  Oeystein Loeseth  said at
a press briefing. “I don’t think minority shares are core
business for Vattenfall, so in every instance where we see a
minority share we’ll look into the possibility to divest.”  Sweden’s government, which won a second four-year term in
elections on Sept. 19, has said it may sell part of the utility
which has since the mid-1990s expanded across Europe with
purchases from Poland to the U.K. The government has urged
Vattenfall to improve profitability and take a “lead” on green
technology. The Social Democrat-led opposition has criticized
the company for investing in coal plants, expanding abroad and
for security breaches at Swedish and German nuclear reactors.  Enea Stake  Vattenfall, Europe’s fifth-largest generator of
electricity, has amassed assets in Belgium, Denmark, Finland,
Germany, the U.K., Poland, the Netherlands and Sweden. It holds
19 percent of  Enea SA , Poland’s third-largest utility. In the
U.K., it owns the Kentish Flats offshore wind farm with capacity
of 90 megawatts, enough to supply about 50,000 homes.  Vattenfall has “established a strong position, but has to
improve operational efficiency and availability, decrease debt
levels and reduce its CO2-exposure, which today is above the
industry average,” the company said in a statement.  Vattenfall agreed to buy Holland’s Nuon Energy NV’s
production and supply operations last year for 8.5 billion
euros, making it Europe’s biggest offshore wind operator.
Loeseth said Vattenfall would cut costs in purchasing and save
money through improvements in operations and maintenance. As for
investments, the company will pick “countries where it is
possible to invest in profitable renewables, for instance the
U.K.,” he said.  Higher electricity generation and lower operating expenses
helped almost double second-quarter after tax profit at the
company to 5.19 billion kronor. Sales rose by 18 percent to 49.7
billion kroner.  Europe Expansion  Loeseth was named CEO in November after  Lars Josefsson 
agreed to step down amid criticism by the government and labor
unions. Josefsson, who joined Vattenfall in 2000, led an
expansion into Denmark and the Netherlands and increased
operations in Germany, adding coal-powered plants that contrast
with the utility’s Swedish hydropower and nuclear plants.  Vattenfall began its European expansion in 1996 when it
bought Finnish distribution company Haemeen Saehkoe and started
operations in Germany. From 1999, it bought stakes in German
power companies, including HEW and Bewag, and in Polish power
providers such GZE. In 2005, it entered Denmark by buying a
stake in Elsam A/S and in 2008 the U.K., when it acquired wind
power companies such as AMEC Wind Energy Ltd., Eclipse Energy UK
Plc, and Thanet Offshore Wind Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kim McLaughlin  in Stockholm at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  