-- Wellstream Gains the Most in London After Receiving Several Bid Approaches
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-09-21T15:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/wellstream-gains-the-most-in-london-after-receiving-several-bid-approaches.html
Wellstream Holdings Plc , a U.K.
oilfield-services provider focused on Brazil, had its biggest
ever gain in London trading after receiving a “number of
preliminary approaches” from potential bidders.  Wellstream  jumped  29 percent, the most since the shares
were first sold in April 2007, to 785 pence as of the 4:30 p.m.
close in London. That gave the Newcastle Upon Tyne, England-
based company a market value of 780 million pounds ($1.2
billion). Rivals including  John Wood Group Plc  also rose.  “There can be no certainty that an acceptable offer will
ultimately be made,” Wellstream said today in a statement.  The company said last month that its order backlog had
risen to 246 million pounds and it forecast improved  profit  in
the second half of the year. Demand for its pipelines and risers
for underwater operations is likely to strengthen, and the Gulf
of Mexico oil spill won’t hinder exploration, Wellstream said.  “The possible offers for Wellstream highlight the mergers
and acquisitions potential for the oil service sector at this
stage in the cyclical recovery,” said  Keith Morris , a London-
based analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. Morris raised his
recommendation for Wellstream to “buy” from “neutral” with a
share-price target of 800 pence.  Saipem SpA, Europe’s largest oilfield-services provider, is
a possible candidate to bid for Wellstream, according to
analysts at Collins Stewart in London. A spokesman for Eni SpA,
which owns 43 percent of Saipem, declined to comment.  The FTSE 350 Oil Equipment & Services Index was the biggest
gainer in the broader benchmark,  climbing  3.2 percent.  Wood Group added 6.6 percent, while Hunting Plc increased
3.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  