-- Worst Over in Global Poll Pointing to Reduced Market Returns
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2010-09-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/worst-over-for-investors-in-global-poll-pointing-to-reduced-market-returns.html
Three out of five global investors
say the world economy has weathered the financial crisis and has
stabilized two years after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.   Few believe the economy is recovering, with only one in six
of those surveyed describing it as expanding, according to a
global quarterly poll of 1,408 investors, analysts and traders
who are Bloomberg subscribers. Forty-one percent aren’t
convinced the financial situation is stable and say further
turbulence is likely.  “When taken as a whole, the world has stabilized,” says
 Uzi Zimmerman , a respondent to the Bloomberg Global Poll and
managing member of Ventura Capital Management, a hedge fund in
the Los Angeles area. “The emerging markets of Asia and Latin
America are providing support to the global economic malaise.”  There are still danger spots, including the threat of
government defaults, respondents say. Over the last three
months, the percentage of those who say it’s likely Ireland will
default more than doubled to 37 percent, according to the poll,
conducted on Sept. 16-17. Still, a majority see this as
unlikely.  Investors are responding to the economic environment by
managing their money conservatively, according to the poll,
which has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.6 percentage
points. More than 40 percent are still hunkering down, while one
in three are taking more risks. The rest say they are getting
back to normal. Those percentages were little changed from the
last poll in June.  ‘Much More Diversified’  “In the absence of clarity on numerous issues, we are much
more diversified,” says  Buddie C. Ballard Jr. , a principal in
Alpha Capital Management in Austin, Texas. “We’ve increased our
exposure into more asset classes with smaller position sizes and
tactically apply stops to those positions” to limit losses.  The Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said on Sept. 9 that growth in the major industrial
nations may slow to an annualized rate of about 1.5 percent in
the second half of this year from 3 percent in the first half.  Europe is seen as a weak link in the world economy. More
than three-quarters of those surveyed see a risk that the
eurozone may dissolve eventually, and more than 20 percent of
those describe such a threat as looming. That’s a more
pessimistic take than in June, when a majority said the currency
union would remain intact.  European investors are the most optimistic about the
chances of avoiding a breakup of the eurozone; U.S. investors
the least.  Shunning the Debt  Yields on 10-year bonds from Portugal and Ireland rose to
their highest level since 1997 yesterday as investors shunned
the debt of so-called periphery nations in Europe on renewed
concern that banks in the region will require further government
aid.  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said on Sept. 17 the
government isn’t facing difficulty raising funds, seeking to end
speculation that it may need external financial aid. Ireland had
the euro region’s biggest budget deficit in 2009.  Greece is still seen as the country most  likely to default 
on its debt, with just over two-thirds of investors surveyed
seeing that as probable. That’s down from the 73 percent who
said they felt that way in June.  Among asset classes, commodities have gained the most in
popularity among investors since the last poll. About one in
three of those surveyed said commodities will offer the highest
return over the next year. In June, 23 percent said that.  Commodities Fall  The Reuters/Jefferies  CRB Index  of 19 commodities has
fallen 1.3 percent this year, led by declines in natural gas,
cocoa and sugar, amid mounting concern about the strength of the
global recovery.  Stocks are still seen as the number one investment over the
next year, with 36 percent of those contacted saying equities
will offer the highest return, little changed from June.  Almost half of investors surveyed see the  Standard & Poor’s
500 index  rising over the next six months, versus 28 percent who
predict it will fall. Pluralities of more than 35 percent
forecast that the Euro Stoxx 50 Index and FTSE index will be
higher in six months time.  The S&P index has risen almost 2.5 percent this year. The
 Euro Stoxx 50  index has fallen 5.5 percent, while the  FTSE 100
Index  has risen 3.5 percent.  Bonds Worst Investment  “The most undervalued and best place to invest right now
are developed countries, blue-chip equities with good dividend
yields and a good dividend growth rate,” said  Douglas Schoninger , president of DJS Capital Management in New York.  Government bonds are seen as the worst investment for the
coming year. Almost half of those polled said they felt that
way, up from 36 percent in June.  The yield on the U.S. Treasury’s 10-note stood at 2.71
percent as of 4 p.m. yesterday, compared with a 19-month low of
2.42 percent reached Aug. 25. Half of investors surveyed said
they expect the yield to rise further over the next six months,
about double those forecasting a fall.  Real estate also fared poorly in the poll, with one in four
investors saying that would be the asset class with the worst
return in the coming year. 