-- Wynton Marsalis Shares Stage With N.Y. Philharmonic, Roy Haynes
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/wynton-marsalis-band-share-stages-with-new-york-philharmonic-roy-haynes.html
When the Berlin, Los Angeles and
New York philharmonic orchestras wanted to commission a symphony
with a jazzy mood and feel, it wasn’t hard to find the artist
with the right credentials.  Wynton Marsalis , the first musician to win both jazz and
classical  Grammy Awards  in a single year, will present the U.S.
premiere of his “Swing Symphony” at Manhattan’s Avery Fisher
Hall tomorrow night. The backing band for Marsalis and his Jazz
at Lincoln Center Orchestra will be the  New York Philharmonic 
led by  Alan Gilbert .  “I wanted to do something joyous and dramatic,” said
Marsalis, the jazz center’s artistic director, in a telephone
interview. “I wanted something we could play together and both
ensembles could be challenged.” The composition, the New
Orleans-born trumpeter’s third numbered symphony, had its world
debut in Germany in June.  After Marsalis leaves the stage, Gilbert and company will
perform Richard Strauss’s tone poem for orchestra, “Don Juan,”
and  Paul Hindemith ’s “Symphonic Metamorphoses on Themes by Carl
Maria von Weber.” The opening night gala is sponsored by
 Breguet , the Swiss watchmaker.  For his second gala of the week, on Saturday Marsalis will
engage in some spirited improvisation with  Roy Haynes , the 85-
year-old jazz drumming legend and fashionista, at Jazz at
Lincoln Center’s season opener.  Best-Dressed List  Haynes, one of the most recorded jazz drummers in history
and once on  Esquire  magazine’s list of the best-dressed men in
the U.S., will perform with his Fountain of Youth Band. He’ll
also headline a band of notables such as Panama-born pianist and
Wayne Shorter cohort  Danilo Perez , saxophonist  Kenny Garrett  and
bass legend  Dave Holland  in addition to the guest appearance by
Marsalis.  “I saw Roy play one time with (jazz pianist)  Chick Corea ,
and I was standing backstage with four other drummers, and their
jaws dropped to the floor,” Marsalis said. “Roy has brought a
clarity and intelligence to drumming. The fact that he can still
play with that kind of fire is beyond astounding.”  Since co-founding the jazz center in 1987, Marsalis, the
 first jazz musician to win a Pulitzer Prize  for music, has
emerged as a standout composer, performer, bandleader and
arranger at the center and an ardent pitchman for the art form.
He has assisted  Bret Silver , the chief external relations
officer in charge of fundraising, in attracting a growing list
of corporate sponsors and patrons for the world’s largest
performing-arts center dedicated to jazz.  St. Regis Sponsorship  This month, St. Regis Hotels & Resorts, a unit of  Starwood
Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc.,  joins a growing list of upscale
brands such as Cadillac and Brooks Brothers Inc. that sponsor
the jazz center.  The White Plains, New York-based St. Regis commissioned
Marsalis to curate and produce a 21-song limited-edition CD,
“Timeless Is Modern,” to celebrate the 21st addition to its
luxury hotel group, the  St. Regis Bahia Beach Resort  in Rio
Grande, Puerto Rico.  Those attending Saturday’s “ An Evening with Roy Haynes ”
concert will get a free copy of “Timeless,” which includes
jazz classics such as “Cherokee” and “St. Louis Blues.”
Guests at any St. Regis hotel on Oct. 21, the day of the opening
of the 21st hotel, also will receive one, said Paul James,
global brand leader for St. Regis and its Luxury Collection
hotel group.  Subscription Package  To nudge its St. Regis customers in New York to hear music
at the center, the hotel is offering an  “Aficionado”  package
this season. It includes transportation to concerts in the
hotel’s chauffeur-driven  Bentley , a one-night stay in a deluxe
room at the St. Regis New York and a post-concert meet-and-greet
session with Marsalis or other jazz musicians.  A similar package costing $1,545 is being offered to St.
Regis guests attending Saturday night’s show.  “The soundtrack of the St. Regis hotel is jazz, not
classical music,” James said. “This is a great opportunity to
promote the work that Jazz at Lincoln Center has done and raise
the visibility of the coming concert season and tie it back to
the hotel.”  To contact the writer on this story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 