-- Yankees Beat Rays 8-6 to Extend Division Lead After Steinbrenner Honor
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/yankees-beat-rays-8-6-to-extend-division-lead-after-steinbrenner-honor.html
The New York Yankees beat the Tampa
Bay Rays 8-6 to extend their division lead on a night they
honored late owner  George Steinbrenner  with a permanent monument
at Yankee Stadium.  Curtis Granderson  hit two home runs and drove in five runs
last night as the Yankees won the opener of a four-game series.  The Yankees improved their Major League Baseball-best
record to 91-59 and lead the Rays by 1 1/2 games in the American
League Eastern Division. New York will host the second game of
the series tonight.  Before the start of yesterday’s game, the Yankees unveiled
a tribute to Steinbrenner in Monument Park beyond the
centerfield fence at their $1.6 billion stadium.  The bronze plaque, which measures 7 feet wide by 5 feet
high (2.14 by 1.52 meters), has a depiction of Steinbrenner’s
face and an inscription that remembers him, in part, as “the
most influential owner in all of sports.”  Steinbrenner died July 13 at the age of 80. The Yankees won
seven World Series championships and 11 American League titles
during his 37-year tenure as principal owner.  Steinbrenner’s four children -- Hal, Hank, Jennifer and
Jessica -- attended, while Steinbrenner’s widow, Joan, was
walked to home plate by baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  before a
pregame video tribute.  ‘Extension of Family’  “We are humbled that his likeness will forever greet the
people he cared so deeply for in Monument Park,” Steinbrenner’s
family said in a statement.  Originally built during the renovation of the old stadium
in the late 1970s, the open-air shrine has monuments for  Babe Ruth ,  Mickey Mantle ,  Lou Gehrig ,  Joe DiMaggio  and manager  Miller Huggins . All are members of baseball’s Hall of Fame. There also
are plaques commemorating players and managers with retired
numbers, front-office leaders, team broadcasters and three Popes
who celebrated Mass at the stadium.  All the current Yankee players walked from the dugout to
Monument Park to see Steinbrenner’s plaque, while  Yogi Berra ,
Reggie Jackson and  Don Mattingly  were among the former Yankees
on hand. Ex-Yankee manager  Joe Torre  also returned to honor
Steinbrenner, his first trip to the Bronx since he left the
organization in 2007.  Torre, who led the Yankees to four World Series titles
before taking over as manager of the Los Angeles Dodgers, was
invited by chief operating officer  Lonn Trost .  “George put a face on this franchise that was all about
winning and very high standards to live by,” Torre said,
according to  MLB.com . “George not only belongs in Monument
Park, but he certainly belongs in the Hall of Fame.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  