-- Mylan Gets Order Blocking Glaxo Sale of Generic Paxil
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2010-09-21T21:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/mylan-sues-glaxo-apotex-over-generic-form-of-antidepressant-drug-paxil.html
Mylan Inc. , the generic-drug maker
with an exclusive agreement to sell a copy of  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc ’s Paxil CR, said it won a temporary court order blocking
Apotex Inc. from also selling the antidepressant medicine.  Mylan, which says it has a licensing agreement, claimed in
a lawsuit yesterday that Glaxo is letting Apotex sell Paxil CR
under the chemical name paroxetine hydrochloride. The order
today by a federal court in Trenton, New Jersey, blocks Apotex
from “using, offering to sell, selling or shipping or otherwise
launching” generic Paxil CR, Mylan said in a statement.  U.S. District Judge  Joel Pisano  set a hearing on the case
for Oct. 18. Mylan, the largest U.S.-based generic-drug company,
said Glaxo pledged that it would be the only company selling
copies of Paxil in controlled-release form as part of a 2007
settlement of a lawsuit over a Glaxo patent expiring in 2016.  The so-called authorized generic would undercut sales and
cause an “irretrievable loss of market share and customers”
for generic Paxil CR, Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based Mylan said
in its complaint. Mylan asked the court to rule that Glaxo
breached the agreement and Apotex can’t sell the generic.  Glaxo “did not breach any contractual duties owed to Mylan
and intends to defend these allegations vigorously,”  Sarah Alspach,  a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mail.  Mylan Sales  Toronto-based Apotex, Canada’s biggest drugmaker, and
London-based Glaxo planned to sell an authorized generic version
of Paxil CR in 12.5-, 25- and 37.5-milligram forms, according to
the complaint. Sales were to begin yesterday.  Paxil CR generated 136 million pounds ($212 million) for
Glaxo in the U.S. in 2007, the year before Mylan entered the
market.  Since May 2008, Mylan’s generic version generated
“hundreds of millions of dollars in sales” in the U.S.,
according to the complaint. Mylan reported about $5 billion in
sales last year.  The 2007 agreement followed a lawsuit Glaxo filed against
Mylan that sought to block sales of generic Paxil CR. The
agreement had provisions to allow other generic versions of
Paxil CR to enter the market before the patent expired. Glaxo
hasn’t followed those terms, Mylan said.  Mylan said then it was the first generic-drug maker to seek
regulatory approval for the 12.5-milligram and 25-milligram
forms of Paxil CR. The regular form of Paxil has multiple copies
on the market.  A spokesman for Apotex,  Elie Betito , didn’t return a call
and e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Mylan Inc. v. SmithKline Beecham Corp., 10-cv-
4809, U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey
(Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington
at   sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 