-- Yuan Climbs to Strongest Since 1993 as Obama Criticizes China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-21T10:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/yuan-climbs-to-strongest-since-1993-after-obama-criticizes-china-policies.html
The yuan strengthened for a ninth
day, breaching 6.7 per dollar for the first time since 1993,
after President Barack Obama criticized China for using an
undervalued currency to gain an unfair trade advantage.  China’s leaders haven’t done “everything they said would
be done” to allow appreciation, Obama said at an hour-long town
hall discussion in Washington. Yuan forwards jumped the most
since June as the dollar weakened against the euro. Foreign
Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu today declined to comment on
Obama’s remarks about the Chinese currency.  “The yuan’s quicker appreciation is related to the
political game between China and the U.S. on currency policy,”
said  Isaac Meng , a Beijing-based economist at BNP Paribas.
“It’s also related to the dollar’s broad weakness because the
yuan is managed against a basket of currencies.”  The yuan rose 0.1 percent to 6.7079 per dollar as of 5:39
p.m. in Shanghai, earlier touching a high of 6.6987, according
to the China Foreign Exchange Trading System. The U.S. currency
slid 0.3 percent against the euro.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards for the yuan
appreciated 0.5 percent to 6.5825 per dollar, reflecting bets
the currency will strengthen 1.9 percent from the spot rate,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest gain
projected by the contracts in almost three months.  The central bank set the daily reference rate stronger than
6.7 per dollar for the first time since July 2005, when it
started managing the exchange rate against a basket of
currencies. The currency is allowed to trade up to 0.5 percent
either side of the daily fixing, set at 6.6997 today.  ‘Two-Way Street’  The yuan is “valued lower than market conditions say it
should be” and that gives China “an advantage in trade,”
Obama said ahead of scheduled talks with Premier  Wen Jiabao  at
this week’s  United Nations  General Assembly in New York. “We
are going to continue to insist that on this issue and all trade
issues with China, it’s a two-way street.”  The yuan has appreciated 1.8 percent since June 19, when
the People’s Bank of China said it would pursue a more flexible
exchange rate after keeping the currency at about 6.83 per
dollar for almost two years.  “I still see upside in the yuan given Wen’s going to New
York soon,” said  Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based senior
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. “But I think nothing has
fundamentally changed; China’s still going to let the currency
rise gradually.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said last week the U.S.
will use every available tool to urge China to let the yuan rise
more quickly. Calls to let the currency strengthen will grow as
China faces swelling trade protectionism against its exports,  Li Daokui , an adviser to the People’s Bank of China, said Sept. 19.  China has reported trade surpluses of more than $20 billion
for each of the last three months and the U.S. estimates it had
a deficit of $119 billion with the Asian nation in the first
half of 2010. The U.S. reported a trade gap with China of $227
billion for 2009.  -- Judy Chen ,  Andrea Wong ,  Michael Forsythe . Editors:  Sandy Hendry ,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 