-- Yuan Swaps Offer Chance to Profit From Cash-Reserve Increase, Newedge Says
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2010-09-21T06:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/yuan-swaps-offer-chance-to-profit-from-cash-reserve-increase-newedge-says.html
Investors should buy interest-rate
swaps to benefit from China’s efforts to contain the fastest
rate of inflation in almost two years, according to Newedge
Financial HK Ltd.  Pay the fixed two-year swap and receive the seven-day
repurchase rate as the latter may climb to 3.5 percent by the
end of the second quarter,  Charles Han , Hong Kong-based head of
foreign-exchange trading at Newedge, said in an interview today.
Han predicts China will ask banks to increase the amount of cash
they set aside as reserves by as much as one percentage point by
June to 18 percent.  “There has been interest in paying fixed rates on short-
dated tenors across different Asian economies, but paying fixed
in China makes the most sense given their rate curve has lagged
the rest of the region,” Han said.  China’s two-year onshore swap rate dropped two basis points
to 2.4 percent as of 1:47 p.m. in Shanghai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It reached 2.17 percent on Aug. 25, the
lowest level since July 2009. The  repurchase rate  increased
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.31 percent,
according to a daily fixing rate published by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  Han said investors should hold on to the swap until the
second half of next year as the trade is “not crowded and a
good hedge against further rises in rates.”  In an interest-rate swap, two parties typically agree to
exchange fixed payments for a variable rate that floats in line
with a benchmark.  China said on May 2 that it would raise the  reserve-
requirement ratio  by 50 basis points to 17 percent for the
biggest banks on May 10. That caused the seven-day repo rate to
rise 11 basis points to 1.71 percent the following week.  Consumer prices rose 3.5 percent from a year earlier in
August, the biggest gain in 22 months, official data showed on
Sept. 11. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said Sept. 13 the government will
continue measures to curb property speculation and work to
maintain stable home prices.  Inflation in China is 1.25 percentage points above the
 benchmark  one-year deposit rate of 2.25 percent, which has not
been changed this year. The negative real interest rate often
encourages savers to shift cash into higher-yielding assets
including real estate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 