-- Zimbabwe Plans to Force Miners to Sell 10% of Diamonds Locally
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2010-09-21T16:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/zimbabwe-plans-to-force-miners-to-sell-10-of-diamonds-to-local-processors.html
Zimbabwe’s government has proposed
a regulation requiring the three diamond miners operating in the
country to sell 10 percent of their gems to local processors and
polishers.  “We are now looking at the modalities of implementing the
new regulation,” Secretary for Mines  Thankful Musukutwa  said
today in a telephone interview from the capital, Harare.  Closely held River Ranch (Private) Ltd. digs the gems near
Beit Bridge in southern Zimbabwe. Murowa Diamonds in Zvishavane,
also in the south, is owned by  Rio Tinto Plc  and  RioZim Ltd.  A
third deposit in the eastern Marange fields is mined by Mbada
Mines (Private) Ltd. and Canadile Miners (Private) Ltd. in joint
ventures with the state-owned Zimbabwe Mining Development Corp.  All stones cut and polished in Zimbabwe will have to be
certified by the Kimberley Process, Musukutwa said. Six licenses
have been awarded to Zimbabwean cutters and polishers for a
$20,000 fee, the mines secretary said.  The Kimberley Process is an initiative by governments,
industry and civil-society groups to certify diamonds as
“conflict-free,” according to its website. So-called conflict
diamonds are rough gems that have been traded by rebel movements
to finance wars against governments, including those in Angola,
Ivory Coast, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Sierra Leone.  New York-based Human Rights Watch alleged in  June 2009  that
Zimbabwe’s military may have killed as many as 200 informal
miners working at Marange. The campaign group had called for a
ban on Marange diamonds unless Zimbabwe adheres to Kimberley
Process standards.  Diamonds from the Marange fields were sold at auction with
Kimberley Process certification for the first time on Aug. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Latham  in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 