-- Zimbabwe's Tsvangirai Says He Won't Commit to Elections Following Violence
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2010-09-21T10:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-21/zimbabwe-s-tsvangirai-says-he-won-t-commit-to-elections-following-violence.html
Zimbabwean Prime Minister   Morgan Tsvangirai  said he won’t commit the southern African nation or
his  Movement for Democratic Change party  to elections
“characterized by violence and thuggery.”  “There is an election planned, but when or whether it will
take place is unclear,” he said today by phone from the
capital, Harare.  President  Robert Mugabe ’s  Zimbabwe African National Union-
Patriotic Front party , one half of a unity government with the
MDC, is using its supporters to intimidate people at public
debates into a new constitution, Tsvangirai said. Calls to Zanu-
PF headquarters in Harare weren’t immediately answered.  “First there must be a referendum on the constitution, and
if there is no clear way forward, we must re-debate that
constitution,” Tsvangirai said. “Right now the constitution
debates in the country and urban areas are being marred by the
sort of violence we saw in 2008.”  Zimbabwe’s government has pledged to write a new
constitution to provide the basis for elections and help end a
decade of instability. Mugabe and Tsvangirai formed a power-
sharing government in February last year after violence against
the MDC’s supporters before an election run-off led Tsvangirai
to withdraw from the contest.  Zimbabwe’s Parliamentary Select Committee on the
Constitution, known as Copac, has been holding debates across
Zimbabwe on the new charter.  MDC supporters in Harare’s poor inner-city township were
attacked and injured at a debate over the weekend, Tsvangirai
said, without providing further details because “reports of
injuries are still coming in.”  “What I can say is that this is a stark reminder of our
violent past and a threat to our bright future,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Latham  in Durban, South Africa at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 