-- Copper May Decline on Speculation Euro Might Weaken Further, Survey Shows
-- Anna Stablum
-- 2010-06-17T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-10/copper-may-increase-on-speculation-decline-was-too-great-survey-shows.html

          
          
             Copper may fall on speculation that
the euro will weaken further, bolstering the dollar, as Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis threatens to crimp Germany’s economic
rebound.  
 Eight of 15 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 53 percent, said the metal will decline next week.
The rest predicted higher prices. Copper for delivery in three
months was down 0.5 percent for this week at $6,448 a metric ton
on the London Metal Exchange at 4 p.m. yesterday.  
 The single European currency has slid 14 percent against
its U.S. counterpart this year. A stronger dollar makes metals
priced in the currency more expensive in terms of other monies.
Budget-cutting measures aimed at stemming the spread of the
crisis will hurt German growth next year, the Kiel-based
Institute for the World Economy said yesterday.  
 “Copper should fall,”  John Meyer , head of research at
Fairfax IS in London, said in an e-mail. “We see the euro as
weakening,” he said, citing this week’s announcement of a drop
in the ZEW Center for European Economic Research’s index of
expectations for German investors and analysts and “the
potential for further crises in the European banking sector.”  
 The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the
greenback’s strength, has risen 10 percent this year,
contributing to LME copper’s 13 percent drop along with concern
about steps by China to restrain its economy. The German economy
is Europe’s biggest.  
 The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of June 11.  
 The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
45 of the past 91 weeks, or 49 percent of the time.  
 This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 7  Bearish : 8  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        