-- Frozen Zoo Cells May Let Scientists Clone Endangered Beasts
-- Rob Waters
-- 2010-06-14T21:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-10/frozen-zoo-cells-may-let-scientists-clone-endangered-rhino-african-drill.html

          
          
             (Correct spelling of scientist’s name in fourth paragraph
of story published June 10.)  
 For a  northern white rhinoceros ,
Angalifu has a pretty sweet life. The two-ton rhino can roam
freely through a 213-acre habitat designed to mimic an African
savannah. Still, Angalifu and Nola, an elderly female, are two
of just eight northern white rhinos known to be left on earth.  
 “These beautiful animals are on the brink,” says Oliver
Ryder, chief geneticist at the San Diego Zoo’s  Institute for
Conservation Research . “There are a few left but it’s not clear
they’re capable of reproducing.”  
 Ryder oversees the  Frozen Zoo , a lab at the institute where
skin cells and DNA from 12 white rhinos and 8,400 other animals
-- about 800 species in all -- are stored at -280 degrees
Fahrenheit. The hope is that the cells can one day be used to
create cloned animals and replenish endangered species. This
winter,  Scripps Research Institute  scientists in La Jolla,
California, used tissue from the Frozen Zoo to create stem cells
from the silver-maned  drill , Africa’s most endangered monkey. On
June 1, the stem cells morphed into brain cells, proving their
viability, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its June 14 issue.  
 “I thought, ‘We’ve done it!’”  Jeanne Loring , who led the
research, said in an interview. “It gives me hope we can help
save species from extinction.” The next step, she said, will be
to use the stem cells in some variation of the method used to
clone Dolly the sheep.  
 In 1996, Scottish researchers made Dolly by transferring
the nucleus of an adult sheep cell into a developing egg cell
whose own nucleus had been removed. They used embryonic stem
cells in that process. Loring would use the stem cells she
developed from the drill’s skin, she said, since embryos from
endangered animals are hard to come by.  
 Drill-Baboon Mix  
 Loring might also try mixing stem cells from the drill with
a three- to four-day-old embryo from a similar animal that’s in
plentiful supply, like a baboon, she said. Offspring from this
mix could be selectively mated to breed out the non-drill genes,
in theory leaving a pure drill.  
 While the Frozen Zoo was founded in 1972 -- long before
“Jurassic Park” sent a back-from-the-dead Tyrannosaurus Rex
snarling across movie screens -- the technology needed to make
good use of the stored cells is just now being developed. Loring
used a technique developed in 2007 by  Shinya Yamanaka  of Kyoto
University in Japan that uses a harmless virus to carry genes
into skin cells to change them into stem cells.  
 Cloning Casualties  
 Scientists have harvested stem cells from embryos for more
than a decade. Attempts to clone endangered animals, though,
have led to aborted pregnancies and deformed offspring. In 2000,
cells from the Frozen Zoo were used to clone two endangered
types of cattle -- a  gaur  and a  banteng  -- using the Dolly
method. Two of the three calves died shortly after birth. The
surviving banteng lived at the San Diego Zoo for seven years,
about half its normal life span, and died in April.  
 These examples demonstrate the moral complexity of cloning,
said  Autumn Fiester , a senior fellow at the  Center for Bioethics 
at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia  
 “There has been a lot of suffering with these early deaths
and these malformations,” Fiester said in a telephone
interview. While preserving endangered species might be a worthy
goal, the benefit may be limited if only a handful of animals
are created and they live in zoos, she said.  
 Ryder acknowledges the problems. “We would only engage in
these efforts if there were no other way to prevent extinction
of a species,” he says.  
 Loring’s team, led by postdoctoral scientist Inbar
Friedrich Ben-Nun, now plan to map the rhino’s genome to gain
clues about which genes to use to reprogram cells. In the
meantime, they’re focused on the drill.  
 There are three ways stem cells might be used to create
clones, Loring said, and none of them will be easy.  
 Mixing Cells  
 One way would be to mimic the process that created Dolly.
Another would mix stem cells from the drill with the early
embryo cell of a similar animal.  
 Eventually, she’d like to figure out how to turn stem cells
into the most elusive and potent cells of all -- sperm and egg.
If she could do this, Loring said, the cells could come together
in a petri dish in an act of in-vitro fertilization.  
 Loring will present her work June 17 at the annual meeting
of the International Society for Stem Cell Research in San
Francisco.  
 In December, conservationists working to  save the northern
white rhino  released four of them in a wildlife conservancy in
Kenya in a last-ditch effort to encourage them to breed in the
wild.  
 For Ryder, the only rationale for cloning is to create new
animals that could mate with existing ones, boosting their
population and genetic diversity. Even if cloning efforts don’t
succeed, the creation of stem cells from endangered animals may
lead to new therapies for conditions like diabetes, which many
drill suffer from -- the same payoffs researchers hope for in
humans.  
 Loring and Ryder are racing against time. Angalifu is about
40, and northern white rhinos generally don’t live past 50.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Frozen Zoo hopes that cells in storage can one day be used to create cloned animals and replenish endangered species. Photographer: Ken Bohn/San Diego Zoo via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Skin cells and DNA from about 800 species are stored at -280 degrees Fahrenheit in the Frozen Zoo laboratory. Photographer: Ken Bohn/San Diego Zoo via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
