-- NYC, 9/11 Workers Reach $712.5 Million Injury Settlement
-- Henry Goldman
-- 2010-06-23T23:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-10/new-york-city-9-11-workers-reach-712-5-million-injury-claims-settlement.html

          
          
             U.S. District Judge  Alvin Hellerstein  today approved a settlement to compensate 10,000
workers who claim illnesses from rescue, recovery and debris
removal after the Sept. 11 World Trade Center attack.  
 The agreement creates a compensation pool of as much as
$712.5 million to settle claims, said  Diana Postemsky , a
spokeswoman for attorneys, in a statement. It was struck between
New York City, its contractors and their subcontractors and
lawyers for the claimants, and the WTC Captive Insurance Co., a
$1 billion fund set up by the U.S. government in 2004.  
 Hellerstein signed an order approving the agreement after
hearing from claimants’ lawyers. The judge described the accord
as “a fair, adequate, and reasonable settlement reflecting hard
work and a concern for fairness by all parties.”  
 The amended agreement offers more money than a previous
version. It creates eligibility criteria for compensation to
those suffering from diseases and injuries including asthma and
terminal cancer, said  Margaret Warner ,  Captive Insurance ’s
lawyer. The settlement also caps attorney’s fees at 25 percent
of awards. Each claimant will get a free cancer-insurance policy
with a $100,000 benefit.  
 In March, the judge rejected an agreement that would have
paid at least $575 million and a maximum of $657 million to
claimants. He told the parties to resume negotiations to produce
a settlement with more money for the plaintiffs.  
 Reduced Fee Cap  
 The approved agreement cuts more than $50 million from
potential attorney’s fees by reducing them from a cap of 33
percent in the earlier proposal. Under the settlement, Captive
Insurance will pay out $625 million in cash and as much as $87.5
million more if certain conditions are met, according to the
lawyers’ statement.  
 Those claiming debilitating respiratory diseases, such as
nonsmokers who contracted severe asthma within seven months of
exposure to the smoke and airborne debris from the attack, may
get $800,000 to $1.05 million, Captive Insurance said in the
statement. Death benefits could reach as much as $1.5 million.  
 Plaintiffs with no qualifying injury who claim fear of
becoming sick will receive $3,250. All qualifying claimants will
get special insurance policies through  MetLife Inc.  providing a
benefit of as much as $100,000 in the event they are diagnosed
with certain blood and respiratory cancers while covered, the
insurer said in the statement.  
 Feinberg Volunteers  
 Kenneth Feinberg , an attorney who acted as special master
of the federal September 11th Victim Compensation Fund awarding
money to surviving families of the attack, volunteered to hear
appeals of the claims awards at no cost to the fund. Feinberg,
the U.S. Treasury’s special master on executive compensation,
is leaving that job to focus on overseeing BP Plc’s $20 billion
compensation fund for damages from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  
 Captive Insurance was funded by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency to insure New York and debris-removal
contractors because the city couldn’t get adequate liability
coverage in the commercial market to deal with the rescue,
recovery and clean-up work at the Trade Center site in lower
Manhattan.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        