-- L'Oreal Sales Rise Most Since 2007 on Luxury Perfume
-- Andrew Roberts
-- 2010-04-23T07:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/l-oreal-quarterly-sales-rise-most-since-2007-on-demand-for-luxury-perfume.html

          
          
             L’Oreal SA, the world’s largest
cosmetics maker, said sales growth accelerated to the fastest
pace in almost three years as shoppers spent more on luxury
perfume and distributors stopped cutting inventories.  
 Revenue rose 8 percent to 4.72 billion euros ($6.3 billion)
in the first quarter from 4.37 billion euros a year earlier,
Paris-based L’Oreal said yesterday in a statement after the
market closed. The average estimate of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was 4.69 billion euros. Excluding currency swings and
acquisitions, sales gained 7.4 percent.  
 The “barnstorming” sales “bode well for the recovery,”
Simon Marshall-Lockyer and Dirk Van Vlaanderen, analysts at
Jefferies International Ltd. in London, wrote in a note today.
Jefferies has a “buy” recommendation on the stock.  
 L’Oreal sales declined last year as retailers reduced
inventories and some consumers pared spending on luxury products
like Yves Saint-Laurent mascara and Lancome fragrances. Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Paul Agon said in February he expected
so-called organic sales to start growing again from the first
quarter and gain momentum over the rest of 2010, boosted by
investments in advertising and research.  
 The first-quarter figures “just confirm the confidence we
already had,” Agon said late yesterday on a conference call. He
declined to provide a full-year forecast.  
 Signs of Improvement  
 L’Oreal shares rose as much as 1.82 euros, or 2.3 percent,
to 81.70 euros in Paris and traded at 81.63 euros at 9:38 a.m.
local time. The stock has gained 4.5 percent this year, valuing
the company at 48.8 billion euros. The quarterly growth was the
biggest percentage increase since the second quarter of 2007.  
 The luxury cosmetics and fragrance market is growing as
much as 6 percent, Agon said, supporting comments last week by
BASF SE, the world’s biggest chemical company, which said there
are signs demand is improving. LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
SA, the world’s largest maker of luxury goods, and Givaudan SA,
the biggest maker of flavors and fragrances, reported double-
digit increases in first-quarter perfume sales this month.  
 Sales at L’Oreal’s luxury division, whose products also
include Armani Code and Ralph Lauren scents, climbed 12 percent,
excluding currency moves and acquisitions, the best performance
of any of the French company’s business lines. That compares
with a 4.7 percent decline in the fourth quarter of 2009 and a 9
percent drop for the full year on the same basis.  
 Beauty Line  
 The YSL beauty line is doing “very well,” while sales of
Kiehl’s, which makes lip balm and body creams, grew 50 percent
in the quarter, Agon said. Lancome sales increased 14 percent.  
 Sales at the consumer-products division, L’Oreal’s largest
source of revenue, increased 6.9 percent on a comparable basis.
Revenue of the Maybelline brand grew 13 percent, Agon said.  
 Sales, excluding currency swings and acquisitions, gained
2.8 percent in western Europe, 5.7 percent in North America and
15 percent in new markets, led by Latin America, where sales
jumped 21 percent, L’Oreal said. Sales grew 15 percent in China,
where the cosmetics maker’s “ambition” is to reach 1 billion
euros in revenue this year, Agon said.  
 L’Oreal expects “a good year” in Latin America, the CEO
said. The company is targeting double-digit growth in new
markets this year, Agon said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Roberts in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A file photo sows the headquarters of L'Oreal SA standing in Paris. Photographer: Fabrice Dimier/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
