-- Australia to Allow Exports of Uranium to Russia by Ratifying Nuclear Pact
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-04-23T06:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/australia-to-allow-exports-of-uranium-to-russia-by-ratifying-nuclear-pact.html

          
          
             Australia, the world’s third-
largest uranium producer behind Kazakhstan and Canada, will
ratify a nuclear agreement allowing exports to Russia for energy
purposes, Foreign Minister Stephen Smith said.  
 “This will enable Australian uranium to be exported to the
Russian Federation for civil, peaceful nuclear purposes,” Smith
said, according to an e-mailed transcript of a news conference
yesterday in Moscow with Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.  
 The agreement will strengthen cooperation on safeguards to
protect exports as Australia and Russia “both stand firmly
against terrorism and violent extremism,” Smith said.  
 Australia, which does not generate any nuclear power, has
the world’s biggest known uranium reserves, according to
estimates from the World Nuclear Association. While exports to
Russia will go ahead, Australia doesn’t allow uranium to be sent
to India for energy use because the South Asian country hasn’t
signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.  
 Refusing to sell uranium to India, which can now import
nuclear technology from the U.S. and gets uranium from Canada,
is “illogical,” Julie Bishop, the opposition’s foreign affairs
spokesman, told reporters in Sydney today, according to an e-
mailed transcript.  
 The Liberal-National opposition, if elected in a national
ballot to be held within a year, “will enter into negotiations
with India to provide uranium sales to that country to support
its efforts to embrace nuclear power,” she said.  
 Ratification ‘Soon’  
 Russia hopes ratification of “agreements on the peaceful
use of nuclear energy” will be completed “soon,” Lavrov said.  
 Australia and Russia signed up to President Barack Obama’s
plan to secure all vulnerable nuclear material in four years
outlined at a two-day summit in Washington earlier this month
that involved 47 countries.  
 “Together with other colleagues we will work in such a way
that the conference on non-proliferation in May will be
concluded with important results,” Lavrov said, referring to
the NPT Review Conference in New York from May 3-28.  
 As much as 10 percent of Australia’s uranium is found in
the state of Western Australia and is valued at about A$40
billion ($37 billion), according to a government estimate. BHP
Billiton Ltd.’s Olympic Dam mine in South Australia contains the
world’s biggest uranium deposit.  
 New Frontier  
 Energy Resources of Australia Ltd., a uranium producer
controlled by Rio Tinto Group, provides about 10 percent of the
world’s mined uranium. It operates the Ranger mine in the
Northern Territory and sells uranium to utilities in Asia,
Europe and North America. It began shipments to China in 2008.  
 The Premier of Western Australia Colin Barnett lifted a ban
on new mining of uranium, which is processed into nuclear fuel,
when his Liberal party won office in September 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Marion Rae in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        