-- Bangkok Grenade Attacks Kill One, Injure 78
-- Daniel Ten Kate
-- 2010-04-23T15:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/bangkok-grenade-blasts-kill-one-person-hurt-75-near-anti-government-rally.html

          
          
             Thai protesters offered to end
their demonstrations if Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva holds
an election three months from now, easing tensions in a six-week
standoff that has killed 26 people and paralyzed Bangkok.  
 “We regret the loss of life and hope such incidents won’t
happen again,” leader Veera Musikapong told supporters today
from the protest site. “We’re willing to open a new round of
negotiations under new conditions.”  
 At least five grenades exploded last night on Silom Road, a
business artery that is home to several of the nation’s largest
banks. Talks last month collapsed after Abhisit rejected the
group’s demands to dissolve parliament immediately, offering
instead to call an election by year’s end.  
 The proposal for negotiations may lead to a peaceful
solution as rising tensions prompted the U.S. and United Nations
to call for dialogue. A failed effort to disperse protesters on
April 10 killed 25 people and left more than 800 injured.  
 “The best way out for both sides right now is to sit down
together and agree on the timing of the election,” said Somchai
Phagaphasvivat, a lecturer at Bangkok’s Thammasat University.
“A lasting solution for the Thai conflict will still take a few
years.”  
 The demonstrators, who largely support fugitive ex-leader
Thaksin Shinawatra, have defied emergency rule since April 7 and
ignored warnings to avoid certain areas of the capital. They
cordoned off an area roughly the size of New York’s Central Park
with bamboo barricades, setting up showers next to the Four
Seasons Hotel and sleeping under Louis Vuitton advertisements.  
 No More Violence  
 The protesters called for Abhisit to dissolve parliament in
30 days, Veera said. A vote must take place 45 to 60 days
afterward, according to Thailand’s constitution.  
 Abhisit didn’t say whether he’d accept the proposal, saying
only that a “political problem requires a political solution.”  
 “I have done my best in my duty and won’t allow any
clashes,” he told reporters late today. “If I can’t perform my
duty, I don’t deserve to be in my position.”  
 The mostly rural-based group also wants the government to
stop threatening protesters with troops near their demonstration
site and allow an independent investigation into the deadly
incidents this month, Veera said. Army chief Anupong Paojinda
confirmed that soldiers wouldn’t use violence against protesters
and would separate rival groups, INN news agency reported.  
 Grenade Attack  
 The government and protesters blamed each other for grenade
attacks last night that killed at least one person and injured
more than 70 others. Many office buildings on Silom Road were
closed today as curious onlookers stood amid the debris of
smashed windows and dried blood.  
 The U.S. condemned the violence, which is not “an
acceptable means of resolving political differences,” State
Department spokesman Philip Crowley told reporters yesterday in
Washington. United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called
for “restraint on all sides” after the attacks, spokesman
Martin Nesirky told reporters in New York.  
 Bangkok Mass Transit System Pcl shut down the capital’s
elevated rail system at 6 p.m. local time. Bangkok Metro Pcl,
operator of the city’s subway system, will provide services to
nine of 16 stations until midnight, according to its Web site.
The benchmark SET index fell 0.9 percent today.  
 The explosives were shot from across the street in a park
occupied by red-shirted protesters, Deputy Prime Minister Suthep
Thaugsuban said on national television late yesterday. Protest
leader Jatuporn Prompan disputed the government’s claim, saying
the projectiles came from an area outside their control.  
 Thaksin and his allies have won the past four elections by
appealing to northerners with improved health care and cheap
loans, including the last nationwide vote in 2007 that restored
democracy after a coup the previous year.  
 Abhisit took power in a December 2008 parliamentary vote
after a court disbanded the pro-Thaksin party for election
fraud. His Democrat party hasn’t won a nationwide vote since
1992.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Thai army soldiers evacuate an injured man after a blast on Silom road in the financial district of Bangkok on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Nicolas Asfouri/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
