-- Bond Spreads Recover to 2007 Levels When BNP Froze Funds: Credit Markets
-- Bryan Keogh
-- 2010-04-23T17:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/bond-spreads-recover-to-2007-levels-when-bnp-froze-funds-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Bonds issued by non-financial
companies are the most expensive they’ve been since the start of
the credit crisis, as rising profits help offset concern that
Europe’s fiscal crisis is worsening and the U.S. will adopt
stricter regulations on Wall Street.  
 Chevron Corp. and Johnson & Johnson led a drop in U.S.
industrial company debt yields to 130 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries this week, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. That matches the spread on
Aug. 9, 2007, when BNP Paribas SA halted withdrawals from three
investment funds at the start of the credit crisis.  
 Companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index are posting
first-quarter profits that exceed analyst estimates by a record
82 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
encouraging bond investors to buy corporate debt even as worries
intensify that Greece is on the verge of default and a fraud
suit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will spur more financial
regulation.  
 “At a time when sovereign debt is seen as risky, corporate
debt is a safe haven,” said Dagmar Kent Kershaw, head of credit
fund management at Intermediate Capital Group Plc in London,
which oversees about 10 billion euros ($13.3 billion) of assets.
“There is a perception of risk and a desire for safer assets.
When you couple that with a search for yield it leads investors
to corporate debt.”  
 Record Spread  
 Industrial company bond spreads widened to a record 603
basis points, or 6.03 percentage points, on Dec. 10, 2008,
before starting to shrink. The overall U.S. corporate bond
market has returned 1.3 percent in April, heading for a fourth
straight month of gains, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data as of April 22 show. Treasuries have returned 0.4 percent,
after losing 0.85 percent in March.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own corporate bonds rather than government debt rose 1
basis point yesterday to 143 basis points, or 1.43 percentage
point, down from a record 511 basis points in March 2009, the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Corporate
Index shows. Yields averaged 3.92 percent.  
 Russia sold $5.5 billion of bonds in its first
international debt sale since the 1998 default while Egypt
returned to the dollar debt market after nine years to take
advantage of a drop in borrowing costs.  
 Russia, Egypt  
 Russia priced $2 billion of five-year bonds to yield 3.741
percent, or 1.25 percentage points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, and $3.5 billion of 10-year notes to yield 5.082
percent, or a 1.35 percentage-point spread. The five-year yield
is below the rate of 4.611 percent on bonds with the same credit
ratings sold by European Union member Lithuania.  
 Egypt’s $1 billion of 10-year bonds were priced to yield
5.75 percent and $500 million of 30-year bonds at 6.95 percent,
a banker involved in the transaction said.  
 Russia and Egypt are selling debt as the extra yield
investors demand to hold emerging-market securities instead of
Treasuries hovered near the lowest since December 2007,
according to the JPMorgan Emerging Market Bond Index. The index,
which reached as low as 230 basis points on April 15, rose 2
basis points to 244 basis points.  
 Bolivia plans its first international bond sale in more
than 70 years as soon as the end of 2011, Finance Minister Luis
Arce said. The World Bank plans to sell as much as 1.5 trillion
pesos ($768 million) of bonds in its first offering in Colombia
since 2004, said George Richardson, head of capital markets at
the bank.  
 Emerging-Market Funds  
 Emerging-market bond funds took in $1.28 billion in the
third week of April, a tally second only to the previous week’s
record $1.8 billion of inflows, EPFR Global said.  
 Funds investing in local-currency debt continued to account
for the biggest portion, the Massachusetts-based research
company said in an e-mail. So far this year, funds focused on
developing economies’ bonds have attracted $11.6 billion, more
than the record annual total of $9.7 billion set in 2005.  
 The European Central Bank said today it will start asking
banks pledging asset-backed bonds as collateral for financing
for detailed information on the loans underlying the securities.  
 The Frankfurt-based central bank is trying to control the
quality of bonds backed by other assets that it accepts as
security for loans to financial institutions. By requiring more
information on the notes, the ECB also said it may boost
confidence in the debt blamed in part for worsening the credit
crisis.  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 The cost to protect against defaults on U.S. corporate
bonds fell, snapping two days of advances, trading in a credit
derivatives index shows. The Markit CDX North America Investment
Grade Index Series 14 declined 0.87 basis point to a mid-price
of 88.4 basis points as of 1:03 p.m. in New York, according to
Markit Group Ltd. The index declines as perceptions of
creditworthiness improve.  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  
 “Investors haven’t lost their nerve and the choice to be
overweight corporate debt is still strong as ever,” said James
Lee, fixed-income analyst at Calvert Asset Management in
Bethesda, Maryland, which has $7.6 billion of fixed income
assets under management.  
 Chevron, Johnson & Johnson  
 Chevron has benefited from the rally in credit. Its $1.5
billion of 3.45 percent notes due 2012 were at 104.5 cents on
the dollar on April 22, giving it a spread of 1 basis point, the
tightest among companies in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
industrial index. The energy company is based in San Ramon,
California.  
 Johnson & Johnson’s $600 million of 5.15 percent bonds due
2012 were at 108.76 cents to yield a spread of 4 basis points,
index data show. The world’s biggest health-products company has
its headquarters in New Brunswick, New Jersey.  
 While spreads may not narrow much further, it’s unlikely
they will widen by much, according to  Mirko Mikelic, a money
manager at Fifth Third Asset Management in Grand Rapids,
Michigan, where he helps oversee $14 billion of fixed-income
assets.  
 “Overall the fundamentals are improving,” Mikelic said.
“No one expects things to blow out by year end.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Haywood in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net 
Bryan Keogh in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net 
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Chevron Corp., company logo sits at the Chevron oil refinery in Pembroke near Rhoscrowther, on March 10, 2010. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
