-- China Home Prices to Fall 20% This Year, BNP Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-23T07:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/china-home-prices-may-fall-as-much-as-20-in-second-half-bnp-paribas-says.html

          
          
             China’s home prices may fall by as
much as 20 percent in the second half, as government measures to
curb credit, increase land supply and a potential property
holding tax cool speculation, according to BNP Paribas.  
 “The State Council and political leadership have
demonstrated a strong political will, at least at a central
level, to curb the property bubble,” BNP analysts Chen Xingdong
and Isaac Meng said in a report today. The cabinet “considers
elevated property prices and further rises as not only economic-
financial risks but also as undermining social stability.”  
 Property prices in 70 Chinese cities surged by a record
11.7 percent in March from a year earlier, prompting the
government to announce measures last week that increased the
size of down payments, raised interest rates on second homes and
barred banks from funding purchases of third homes.  
 BNP joins Citigroup Inc. in predicting prices may drop as
much as 20 percent as tightening measures take hold. A “turning
point” in the real-estate market is “unavoidable,” Citigroup
analysts Oscar Choi and Marco Sze said in a report yesterday.  
 China may tax owners of three or more homes, the Shanghai
Securities News reported today, citing unidentified people.
State Administration of Taxation spokesman Niu Xinwen couldn’t
be reached on his mobile phone.  
 The State Council has approved a real-estate tax trial in
Beijing, Chongqing, Shenzhen and then Shanghai, the Economic
Observer said yesterday.  
 ‘Frothy’  
 China’s property market has “gotten frothy” in some
areas, though not yet a bubble, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
strategist Timothy Moe said in a Bloomberg Television interview
today.  
 Soaring real estate prices have prompted analysts including
former Morgan Stanley economist Andy Xie to call the nation’s
asset markets a bubble that will burst once the government curbs
credit. China is “on a treadmill to hell,” with growth driven
by the “heroin of property development,” hedge fund manager
James Chanos said this month.  
 “Beijing is sending strong signals that it will do
whatever it takes to slow down the property market,” Brian
Jackson, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Royal Bank of Canada,
said in e-mailed comments. “We believe that the measures it has
already put in place will soon be followed by higher lending
rates.”  
 The government measures on property are aimed at curbing
house prices while avoiding a crash, said central bank adviser
Li Daokui.  
 A measure of China property stocks slid 8.4 percent this
week, adding to the year’s 18 percent decline, the worst
performer among the five industry groups on the Shanghai
Composite Index.  
 Housing prices in so-called first-tier and second-tier
cities are “clearly in a bubble,” the BNP analysts said.
“First-quarter property sales and prices could be at a
significant cyclical peak.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Construction work continues at Soho China Ltd.'s residential and commercial Sanlitun SOHO complex in Beijing, on Oct. 20, 2009. Photographer: Doug Kanter/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
