-- China Day Ahead: Geely, Beijing Auto Executives to Speak at Car Conference
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-22T00:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/china-day-ahead-geely-beijing-auto-executives-to-speak-at-car-conference.html

          
          
             Top Chinese automotive executives
including China Geely Group, Beijing Automotive Industry Holding
Corp. and Dongfeng Motor Co. will speak at an automotive
symposium in Beijing today.  
 Geely Group President Yang Jian, Beijing Auto President
Wang Dazong, Dongfeng Motor Co. President Kimiyasu Nakamura and
Chery Automobile Co.’s Chairman Yin Tongyue will be among those
speaking at the conference, a day ahead of the Beijing Auto Show.  
 The Beijing Auto Show, scheduled from April 23 through May
2, is the first major trade fair in China’s automobile industry
since the nation surpassed the U.S. to become the world’s
largest vehicle market.  
 The People’s Bank of China is scheduled to sell 23 billion
yuan of 91-day notes today, and another 90 billion yuan of 3-
year notes.  
 The following are some of the important stories that broke
overnight, and newspaper summaries in China today:  
 TOP CHINA STORIES:  
 IMF Urges Stronger Chinese Yuan; Japan Might Need More Stimulus  
 The International Monetary Fund said China should let the
yuan appreciate to cool growth, while Japan must be prepared to
widen its stimulus measures as Asia’s two biggest economies
diverge.  
 Guocoland to Double China Property Investment on State Curbs  
 Guocoland Ltd., the developer controlled by Malaysian
billionaire Quek Leng Chan, said China’s efforts to avert a
property bubble has encouraged the company confidence to double
its investment in the country.  
 U.S. to Investigate Chinese Aluminum Goods; No Decision on Yuan  
 The U.S. Commerce Department said it will investigate
whether China’s aluminum products are getting unfair government
subsidies, without saying if the probe would include complaints
over currency valuation.  
 Buffett’s Iscar Lured to China in Bid to Take Sandvik’s Lead  
 Iscar Metalworking Cos., the Israeli machinery maker owned
by Warren Buffett, said it wants to make acquisitions abroad,
with China the most likely market because of a lack of antitrust
issues.  
 China Shipping Container Posts Loss on Trade Slump  
 China Shipping Container Lines Co., the country’s second-
biggest cargo-box carrier, posted a 2009 loss after the global
economic crisis cut rates.  
 TODAY’S PAPERS:  
 Singapore Banks Lift Mortgage Charges as Rates Fall, Times Says  
 China to Check Family Ownership for Second Home Loans: News Link  
 Bad Loans May Take Toll on China Growth, Pettis Writes: FT Link  
 Guangdong Starts Organ-Donation Project: Morning Post Link  
 Zhongwang Borrows 2.3 Bln Yuan, Lends It to Builder, SCMP Says  
 TOP STORIES WORLDWIDE:  
 China Drivers Shun Hybrids, Electric Cars on Lack of Subsidy  
 Huang Jihai considered buying his 28-year-old daughter the
world’s first plug-in hybrid as a wedding gift in Beijing before
choosing to save 16,900 yuan ($2,500) with a gasoline-powered
car instead.  
 Obama Says SEC, White House Didn’t Discuss Goldman   
 President Barack Obama said the White House had no
influence on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s decision
to file suit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc. as financial
regulation legislation is being debated in Congress.  
 Senators Back Plan to Make Banks Spin Off Swaps Desk   
 The Senate Agriculture Committee approved derivatives
legislation that would require U.S. lenders such as JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. to spin off their swaps
trading desks.  
 Massey, Peabody Mines Targeted in Stepped-Up Probe   
 Massey Energy Co., operator of a mine where 29 workers
died in an explosion this month, led a list of 57 coal mines
subjected to new U.S. inspections based on previous safety
violations, the U.S. Labor Department said.  
 Transocean Says ‘Blowout’ May Have Caused Rig Fire   
 Transocean Ltd. said a pressure surge violent enough to
rupture pipes, known in the oil and natural-gas industry as a
blowout, may have triggered the explosion and fire on a
deepwater rig off the Louisiana coast that injured 17 people and
left 11 missing.  
 MARKETS:  
 Most U.S. Stocks Rise on Apple, Morgan Stanley, Boeing Earnings  
 Most U.S. stocks rose, sending the Dow Jones Industrial
Average up for a third day, as better-than- estimated earnings
at Apple Inc., Morgan Stanley and Boeing Co. overshadowed
concern Greece will default on its debt.  
 Euro Slips for Fifth Day on Concern Greece Talks May Fall Short  
 The euro dropped against the dollar for a fifth day in the
longest stretch of decreases since January on concern
discussions of a $61 billion aid package for Greece may fail to
contain the nation’s debt crisis.  
 Hogs Rally to 14-Year High, Cattle Gain on Improved Meat Demand  
 Hog futures surged to the highest price since 1996 as a
rally in wholesale pork signaled improved demand for U.S. meat.
Cattle also rose.  
 Gold Futures Rise on Demand for Haven Amid Greek Debt Concerns  
 Gold rose the most in two weeks on skepticism that a Greek
aid package will resolve the nation’s debt, boosting demand for
the metal as a haven. Platinum and palladium extended rallies to
the highest prices since 2008.  
 Soybeans Jump to Three-Month High, Corn Gains on Chinese Demand  
 Soybeans topped $10 a bushel for the first time since
January and corn gained on speculation that China will boost
imports from the U.S., the world’s largest shipper of the crops.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        