-- Excel Trust IPO Raises $210 Million After Cutting Offer Price by About 22%
-- Michael Tsang
-- 2010-04-23T20:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/excel-trust-raises-210-million-after-cutting-price-for-initial-offering.html

          
          
             Excel Trust Inc., the San Diego-
based real-estate fund investing in shopping centers, raised
$210 million in its initial public offering, 22 percent less
than it originally sought. The stock slid 5 percent.  
 The property firm sold 15 million shares at $14 each
yesterday after delaying its sale on April 21, according to
Bloomberg data and a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Excel, which plans to qualify as a real estate
investment trust, pushed back the deal after originally offering
the shares at $16 to $18 each.  
 The IPO came after only one company raised more money than
it initially sought on April 21, the busiest day for U.S.
offerings since 2007. All seven companies that attempted deals
asked investors to pay a premium after the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index had rallied to an 18-month high.  
 “It’s a highly selective buyer’s market,” said Josef
Schuster, the Chicago-based founder of IPOX Capital Management
LLC and manager of the Direxion Long/Short Global IPO Fund.
“Anything that’s highly speculative and expensive as well,
investors are very cautious about.”  
 Excel Trust’s shares fell 70 cents to $13.30 today in New
York Stock Exchange trading.  
 Morgan Stanley of New York, London-based Barclays Plc and
UBS AG in Zurich were hired to lead Excel Trust’s sale.  
 Busiest Day  
 The first-day performance of the six IPOs prior to Excel
Trust this week ranged from a loss of 12 percent for Ottawa,
Ontario-based Mitel Networks Corp. to an advance of 13 percent
for SPS Commerce Inc.  
 In all, seven companies attempted initial sales, offering
$1.1 billion of shares, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 While six completed deals on April 21 in the busiest day
since Nov. 8, 2007, only SPS Commerce raised more than it
originally sought in its prospectus. The Minneapolis-based
seller of software that enable businesses to manage orders from
their supplier priced $49 million of shares.  
 Excel Trust, which planned to raise as much as $270
million, said in its prospectus before the sale that it expected
to own 16 retail properties after the offering. The reduced IPO
was still the largest among the five real-estate companies that
have completed initial sales this year, Bloomberg data show.  
 Based on the original terms, the company would have been
valued at 1.23 times its tangible book value, a measure of
shareholder equity that excludes assets that can’t be sold in
liquidation. That’s 26 percent higher than the median of 0.98
times for 28 shopping center REITs, according to Bloomberg data.  
 “The market balked at the pricing” for Excel Trust, said
Joseph Betlej, vice president of St. Paul, Minnesota-based
Advantus Capital Management, which oversees more than $18
billion. “They were pricing the assets coming into the REIT too
aggressively.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        