-- Geithner Harnesses G-20 to Push for Yuan Revaluation
-- Simon Kennedy
-- 2010-04-23T12:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/geithner-harnesses-g-20-behind-yuan-push-as-india-brazil-raise-pressure.html

          
          
             Group of 20 finance chiefs may
intensify pressure on one of their own today as the U.S.-led
campaign for China to revalue the yuan broadens from Washington
to Mumbai and Brussels.  
 Three weeks since U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F.
Geithner called today’s G-20 talks in the U.S. capital an
“avenue for advancing U.S. interests” on the Chinese currency,
counterparts are rallying to his side. Central bankers in India
and Brazil this week backed a stronger yuan as did the
International Monetary Fund and European Union governments.  
 Speculation the G-20 will press China for a revaluation,
after the body ducked the topic of exchange rates in recent
years, lifted yuan forwards to a three-month high yesterday.
Whether the lobbying proves successful provides another test of
the G-20’s ability to achieve results as splits over hedge fund
rules and bank taxes fracture the united front its members
formed in battling the global recession.  
 “Given that Secretary Geithner has forestalled pressure
for unilateral U.S. action by framing the China currency issue
as a G-20 multilateral concern, it would be surprising if
exchange rates were not discussed at some length,” said Daniel
Price, former President George W. Bush’s G-20 negotiator, who is
now a partner at law firm Sidley Austin LLP in Washington.  
 Daylong Talks  
 G-20 finance chiefs including Geithner and European Central
Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet begin a day of talks at 9:30
a.m. in Washington, with a statement and press conferences
scheduled for about 5 p.m. It’s their first meeting since
September’s decision by leaders to make the G-20 the premier
forum for setting international economic policy. G-7 officials
dined together last night without releasing a communiqué.  
 Japanese Finance Minister Naoto Kan told reporters after
the dinner that countries are “mindful about not ordering each
other to do things in an open forum” as such an approach
“could actually spur a backlash from China.”  
 After scrapping a peg to the dollar in July 2005, the
Chinese government allowed the yuan to gain 21 percent before
holding it at about 6.83 to the dollar since July 2008. While
that aids its exporters, it has incurred criticism abroad for
hurting foreign companies and fanning Chinese inflation.  
 In delaying a twice-yearly report on whether China is
manipulating its exchange rate, Geithner said April 3 that he
aimed to use the G-20 meeting “to make material progress” at a
time when U.S. lawmakers are threatening tariffs on the nation.  
 Brazil’s Take  
 Geithner is already finding supporters abroad. Brazil’s
central bank President Henrique Meirelles said April 20 it’s
“absolutely critical” that China let its currency appreciate.
European officials will today seek an “effective real
appreciation of the renminbi,” according to an EU draft
document prepared for the G-20 talks.  
 Finding backers “should be quite easy” for Geithner
because less developed economies are suffering the most from
China’s currency regime, said Harvard University professor Niall
Ferguson. Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said
April 20 exports to India from China have grown faster than
shipments in the other direction “and that obviously is a
reflection of differences in the exchange-rate management.”  
 “The principal losers from the weak renminbi are other
emerging markets, not the U.S.,” said Ferguson, author of “The
Ascent of Money: A Financial History of the World.”  
 Timetable  
 China may not hold out much longer, said Kevin Lai, an
economist at Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Ltd. The IMF said
in an April 21 report that allowing the yuan to gain would help
cool the country’s expansion, which the Washington-based lender
expects to accelerate to 10 percent this year from 8.7 percent
in 2009.  
 Chinese executives including Yang Yuanqing of Beijing-based
computer maker Lenovo Group Ltd. and Qin Xiao of China Merchants
Bank Co. said last month they favored a stronger yuan.  
 “There is a consensus that an appreciation now works to
China’s advantage,” Lai said. Bank of Israel Governor Stanley
Fischer said in an interview in Washington yesterday that
tempering “the threat of domestic overheating” was a reason to
let the yuan rise.  
 The G-20 avoided the topic of exchange rates after its
leaders began regular meetings in November 2008 because of the
need to first integrate China into the international policy-
making fabric. That may now be changing as the recovery
strengthens and authorities pledge policies that make the world
less reliant on U.S. demand and Chinese savings.  
 ‘Coming Back’  
 “One problem which had been extensively discussed before
the crisis about the global imbalances has been a little
forgotten during the crisis” and “are clearly coming back
today with the recovery,” IMF Managing Director Dominique
Strauss-Kahn said in a press conference yesterday.  
 International lobbying may still take time to pay off. It
took almost two years of G-7 pressure for China to loosen the
yuan’s peg to the dollar in July 2005. In a sign some in China
are still against allowing the yuan to gain, an industry
ministry official, Zhu Hongren, yesterday said another global
recession remains a risk and criticism of the yuan hurts the
country’s trade outlook.  
 “We expect China to wait a bit longer,” said Marc
Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York.  
 Any currency dispute may not be the only schism at the
Washington talks, which occur a year after G-20 leaders agreed
to craft a $1.1 trillion plan to aid the world economy.  
 Bank Levy  
 While policy makers favor having banks cover more of the
cost of future bailouts, an IMF recommendation that taxes be
applied to non-deposit liabilities and the sum of profit and
compensation has received a mixed reception.  
 Although the U.K. and U.S. have welcomed the IMF’s ideas,
Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said a levy may hurt
banks and backfire by fueling risky behavior. Japan’s Kan has
noted “situations differ for each nation” and his country
already has its Deposit Insurance Corp.  
 Geithner has also been urging European leaders to
reconsider their approach to tightening regulation over hedge
funds. Europe’s proposed Alternative Investment Fund Management
directive includes provisions to limit non-European funds’
access to the EU market. Differences also extend to how to raise
the quantity and quality of capital at banks.  
 “The risk, which is not only a risk but already
materialized somewhat, is that different parts of the world will
have their proposals, which all make sense when you’re looking
at the interests and problems of the countries preparing these
reforms, but which may be somewhat inconsistent,” Strauss-Kahn
said yesterday.  
 The G-20 accounts for about 85 percent of global gross
domestic product. Its members are Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan,
South Korea, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Turkey,
the U.S., U.K. and EU.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Timothy Geithner, U.S. Treasury secretary, speaks during a meeting with Wang Qishan, vice premier of China, unseen, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, on June 1, 2009. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Linda Yueh, an economist at Oxford University, talks with Bloomberg's Andrea Catherwood about the prospects China's yuan appreciating against the dollar, and how this may benefit India and Brazil. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Timothy Geithner, U.S. Treasury secretary, speaks during a meeting with Wang Qishan, vice premier of China, unseen, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, on June 1, 2009. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
