-- German Business Confidence May Rise to Two-Year High as Exports Flourish
-- Jana Randow
-- 2010-04-23T07:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/german-business-confidence-may-rise-to-two-year-high-as-exports-flourish.html

          
          
             German business confidence probably
rose to a two-year high in April as the global economic recovery
boosted export demand and warmer weather allowed workers back
onto construction sites.  
 The Ifo institute will say its business climate index,
based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 98.7 from
98.1 in March, according to the median of 37 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey. That would be the highest reading since
June 2008. Ifo releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  
 The International Monetary Fund this week raised its
forecast for global growth in 2010 to 4.2 percent from 3.9
percent, saying the recovery has “evolved better than
expected.” German exports are rising, manufacturing is
expanding at a record pace, and the arrival of spring is buoying
building activity and consumer spending.  
 “The economy will crank up in the second quarter,” said
Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hannover, Germany. “The
most important stimulus for the German economy is foreign
demand. We were sucked into the swirl of recession very deeply;
now we’re benefitting disproportionately from the global
recovery.”  
 Ifo’s gauge of the current situation will increase to 95.3
from 94.4, while an index of executives’ expectations will rise
to 102.1 from 101.9, the survey of economists shows.  
 Winter Break  
 The German economy, Europe’s largest, resumed expansion in
the second quarter after the coldest winter in 14 years probably
saw it contract in the first, the Bundesbank said on April 19.
The government forecasts growth of 1.4 percent this year and 1.6
percent in 2011. The economy shrank 5 percent in 2009, the most
since World War II.  
 This week Volkswagen AG, Europe’s largest automaker, said
first-quarter profit almost doubled as sales in China and at its
Audi luxury brand jumped to records. Daimler AG, the world’s
second-biggest maker of luxury cars, raised profit forecasts for
its Mercedes-Benz and truck units after reporting better-than-
expected earnings for the three months through March.  
 A measure of German manufacturing growth by Markit
Economics this month rose to the highest level since the index
was created in 1996. German investor confidence also surged in
April as falling unemployment and a weaker euro improved
economic prospects.  
 The single European currency has dropped 12 percent in the
past five months, partly because of Greece’s budget crisis.
That’s making German goods more competitive abroad.      Exports
soared 5.1 percent in February and factory orders from outside
the euro area rose 2.9 percent. The euro fell below $1.33
yesterday after Moody’s Investors Service cut Greece’s credit
rating. It traded at $1.3244 at 9 a.m. in Frankfurt today.  
 “Greece isn’t relevant as a trading partner and companies
won’t run into any problems as a result of the country’s fiscal
crisis,” said Joerg Lueschow, an economist at WestLB AG in
Dusseldorf. “On the contrary, the euro has suffered as a
result, and that’s boding well for Germany’s competitiveness.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An employee cleans a Lamborghini Gallardo LP 570-4 Superleggera automobile at the Volkswagen AG (VW) annual shareholders' meeting in Hamburg, on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
