-- Greek Bond Yields Approach Pakistan Levels as Concern About Default Mounts
-- Ben Levisohn
-- 2010-04-23T12:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/greek-10-year-government-bonds-fall-an-eighth-day-amid-repayment-concern.html

          
          
             Greece’s deficit crisis is pushing
its bond yields closer to those of Pakistan, a junk-rated nation
that is battling the Taliban.  
 Two-year Greek note yields soared to more than 11 percent
after Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s credit rating
yesterday and the European Union said the country’s budget
deficit was worse than previously forecast. Similar-maturity
securities from Pakistan, which turned to the International
Monetary Fund for a bailout in 2008, yield 12.2 percent.  
 Greece’s Prime Minister George Papandreou, who today called
for activation of an EU- and IMF-led financial lifeline of as
much as 45 billion euros ($60 billion), has failed to convince
investors he can push through the austerity measures needed to
shore up the nation’s finances amid deepening protests at home.  
 “Greece is like an old-fashioned emerging market dependent
on IMF help,” said William Nemerever, co-manager of the $1.9
billion GMO Emerging Country fund and a partner at Grantham,
Mayo, Van Otterloo & Co. in Boston. It compares unfavorably to
traditional emerging markets that are now in “good fundamental
shape,” he said. “It’s kind of in limbo, a reflection of the
uncertainty and the disappointing fundamentals in the country
that will require some assistance for years.”  
 Debt Ratings  
 “It is a matter of national need to ask officially” for the
activation of the EU-led aid mechanism, Papandreou said today.  
 Greek government bonds lost more than 13 percent this year,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Pakistan debt gained
more than 16 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s USD Emerging Market Sovereigns, Pakistan index.  
 The debt of Pakistan, South Asia’s second-biggest economy,
is rated B3 by Moody’s, six levels below investment grade.
Greece’s ranking was lowered one step to A3 yesterday by the
company, four levels above junk. Moody’s put a negative outlook
on the bonds, indicating it’s more likely to cut the
classification again than raise it or leave it unchanged.  
 “The market is evaluating Greece as a single B credit,”
said David Rolley, who helps oversee $106 billion as co-head of
global fixed-income in Boston for Loomis Sayles & Co. “There is
a very large policy uncertainty that will have to be sorted out
before normal liquidity conditions resume.” Rolley declined to
comment on his holdings.  
 The yield on the Greek two-year note dropped 36 basis
points to 9.83 percent as of 12:15 p.m. in London, paring this
week’s surge to 312 basis points, or 3.12 percentage points. The
Pakistan note yielded 12.2 percent.  
 IMF Bailout  
 Pakistan’s fight against Taliban militants in the northwest
tribal areas will help swell the deficit to 5.3 percent of gross
domestic product in the year ending June 30, from 5.2 percent
last fiscal year, according to the finance ministry. The Islamic
republic, which has a population of more than 150 million,
turned to the IMF for an $11.3 billion bailout in 2008 after
reserves plunged 75 percent.  
 The EU’s statistics office said yesterday that Greece’s
deficit was 13.6 percent of gross domestic product last year.
The shortfall may rise to 14 percent as “off-market swaps”
cloud estimates, Luxembourg-based Eurostat said. The EU limit is
3 percent of GDP. Greece’s GDP per capital is more than 10 times
that of Pakistan, according to IMF figures for 2009.  
 Two-year Greek debt now yields more than 10-year bonds,
suggesting investors believe a debt default or restructuring is
more likely than a successful rescue, according to Peter
Chatwell, an interest-rate strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate and Investment Bank in London. Ten-year Greek bonds,
which have also plunged this year, yielded 8.54 percent.  
 ‘Inverted Curve’  
 “The inverted yield curve implies a bias away from the EU-
IMF package,” Chatwell said. Yesterday’s surge in yields was
“panic station” trading, he said. “The massively high
outright yields are not something that would occur if the market
was confident Greece was going to secure funding. If you’re
holding short-dated bonds, you want to receive cash when it
matures, you don’t want to be flipped into some other paper.
That’s enough to cause this sort of selloff and inversion.”  
 Greece needs to pay investors 8.1 billion euros on May 19
and a further 28.2 billion euros by the end of 2011, according
to Bloomberg calculations. The government must raise about 30
billion euros by the end of this year. Greece’s borrowing costs
more than doubled at an auction of 1.95 billion euros of three-
month bills on April 20.  
 “The market is telling you that there’s a solvency issue
that’s likely to peak in the next two years,” said Zane Brown,
a fixed-income strategist with Lord Abbett & Co. in Jersey City,
New Jersey. The EU-IMF rescue package is a “weak band-aid and
too small,” he said.  
 Credit-default swaps on Greek government bonds climbed
11.5 basis points to 645.5, after rising to a record 650 basis
points yesterday, according to CMA DataVision prices. Swaps on
Pakistan climbed almost 16 basis points to about 665 basis
points.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Campbell in New York at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Levisohn in New York at 
 blevisohn@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     George Papandreou, Greece's prime minister, speaks at a press conference following the European Union Summit in Brussels, on March 26, 2010. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
