-- Greece May Seek Bridge Loan as Bond Redemption Looms
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2010-04-23T07:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/greece-may-see-euro-region-bridge-loan-as-11-3-billion-redemption-looms.html

          
          
             Greece is prepared to ask euro-
region governments for a bridge loan as $11.3 billion in bonds
come due next month and borrowing costs surge to the highest
level since 1998, a Greek government official said.  
 The yield on the Greek 10-year government bond rose for a
ninth day today, climbing to 9.03 percent as investors wait for
Greece to hammer out terms of a 45 billion-euro ($60 billion)
aid package with the European Union and International Monetary
Fund. With talks potentially lasting three weeks, Greece faces a
risk that aid won’t be agreed upon by the May 19 redemption. No
decision on a bridge loan has been made, said the official, who
declined to be identified because of government policy.  
 The Athens talks focus on what conditions Prime Minister
George Papandreou will have to accept to tap the rescue plan as
speculation mounts that Greece will need to restructure its debt
and workers protest that spending cuts have already gone too
far. The premium investors demand to hold Greek debt over German
bonds yesterday rose to 575 basis points, the most since before
the start of the euro in 1999.  
 “To avoid a debt restructuring, Greece needs to make an
enormous effort, but even then, the euro zone may need to
provide extra assistance,” said Nick Kounis, chief European
economist at Fortis Bank Nederland.  
 IMF Meeting  
 Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou, who is going to
Washington for the spring meetings of the IMF and World Bank,
said April 20 that euro-region allies would be able to move
swiftly to backstop Greece with a bridge loan. Papaconstantinou
will meet with IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn in
Washington.  
 “If our country decides to request activation of the
mechanism, the approval will happen very fast and from the
moment there is approval, there is a clear commitment from our
partners for short-term lending until all the procedures are
completed,” he said.  
 The yield on the Greek two-year government bond rose 29
basis points to 10.427 percent and the euro dropped 0.3 percent
to $1.3253, the lowest since April 30 last year. Moody’s
Investors Service yesterday cut its rating on Greek debt one
notch to A3 and the EU revised the country’s budget deficit
higher, saying the gap may have topped 14 percent of gross
domestic product last year.  
 El-Erian’s Take  
 Greek yields are likely to rise further as long-term
holders of the nation’s debt dump the securities on concerns
about the government’s capacity to cope with its obligations,
according to Mohamed A. El-Erian, whose company runs the world’s
biggest mutual fund.  
 The “Greek debt debacle” is worsening and helping to
widen yield spreads for fellow euro members including Italy,
Portugal and Spain, El-Erian, co chief investment officer at
Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote in a comment on
FT.com’s Alphaville blog.  
 “The continued volatility of sovereign debt prices will
force” investors to sell Greek debt, El-Erian said. This is
creating “technical dynamics” that are very hard to reverse
without massive official financing or strong demand from buyers
of distressed debt, he said.  
 Credit-default swaps tied to Greece’s government bonds
extended their increase, rising 158 basis points yesterday to a
record 644, according to CMA DataVision prices. Credit swaps on
Portugal’s debt also climbed to the highest level ever,
advancing 41 basis points to 273, CMA prices show.  
 No Contagion  
 Strauss-Kahn said that IMF funds would not have to be
extended to other European countries.  
 “If you consider the euro zone as a whole, there’s no
specific problem of sovereign debt,” Strauss-Kahn said at a
press conference yesterday in Washington, when asked about the
possibility of IMF aid for Spain or Portugal. “We’re prepared
to help countries if needed, but we don’t see a need these days
to focus on any other countries but Greece.”  
 Greece’s benchmark 10-year bond yield is now almost triple
the rate of German bunds, Europe’s benchmark government
security. The yield on the two-year bond surged more than 240
basis points to 10.142 percent, more than 10 times the
comparable German note and on par with the debt of Sri Lanka.  
 As Greece struggles to cut its budget deficit below the
EU’s 3 percent limit by 2012, the country is likely to cut or
delay payments to bond investors, said Erik Nielsen, chief
European economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. He argues that a
“large multi-year official rescue package combined with a
voluntary debt restructuring would create a much longer
breathing space” for Greece.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Athens at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     George Papandreou, Greece's prime minister, speaks during a press briefing at the European Union Parliament headquarters in Brussels, on March 18, 2010. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 22 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Bianco, president of Bianco Research LLC, talks with Bloomberg’s Matt Miller and Carol Massar about Greece's debt crisis.
     The European Union said Greece’s budget deficit last year was worse than previously forecast and Moody’s Investors Service cut the country’s creditworthiness, sending Greek bond yields soaring. Bianco also discusses U.S. stocks, corporate earnings and financial regulation.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
