-- Japanese Bonds Post Second Weekly Gain Amid Weaker Stocks, Deflation Risk
-- Theresa Barraclough
-- 2010-04-23T07:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/japanese-government-bonds-may-decline-pare-weekly-advance-on-stock-gains.html

          
          
             Japan’s bonds completed a second
week of gains as local stocks posted the largest weekly slump in
almost three months and signs of lingering deflation boosted the
allure of government debt.  
 Ten-year yields were near the lowest level since March on
speculation deflation, or a general drop in prices, will
strengthen the case for the Bank of Japan to stick with an
accommodative monetary policy. Life insurers may shift funds to
long-term government bonds from stocks as regulators boost
capital requirements, according to Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co.  
 “Expectations for inflation is putting a lid on any yield
gains,” said Kenro Kawano, a debt strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Tokyo. “Given interest rate risks, there are little
concerns of yields rising. The bullish market will continue.”  
 The yield on the 1.4 percent security due March 2020 was
unchanged at 1.315 percent as of 3:45 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
The security traded at 100.744 yen.  
 Ten-year yields, which reached 1.305 percent on April 19,
the lowest since March 11, fell 2.5 basis points this week. The
rate may drop to 1.28 percent by the end of June, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  
 Bond futures for June delivery added 0.02 to 139.36 as of
the afternoon close at the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The Nikkei 225
Stock Average dropped 0.3 percent today, capping a 1.7 percent
drop this week, the most since the five days ended Jan. 29.  
 Fitch Ratings  
 The gain in bonds was limited after Fitch Ratings said
yesterday the nation’s swelling debt burden may put pressure on
its sovereign AA- rating. Concern about Japan’s financial health
may ease when the government releases its fiscal rehabilitation
plan in June, Finance Minister Naoto Kan said after Fitch’s
announcement.  
 “Such concerns will probably ease once the fiscal
framework is announced as scheduled,” Kan told reporters in
Washington yesterday before a meeting of finance ministers and
central bankers from the Group of Seven nations.  
 Japan’s finances have come under scrutiny since January,
when Standard and Poor’s cut the outlook of the nation’s AA
rating to “negative” from “stable.” Prime Minister Yukio
Hatoyama will unveil a fiscal plan in June.  
 The cost of protecting $10 million of Japanese sovereign
debt from default increased by $360,500 to $6,744,500 yesterday,
credit-default swaps showed. The swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities if a borrower fails to
adhere to its debt agreements.  
 BOJ Pressure  
 Fitch’s report “might lead to some speculation about a
ratings downgrade,” Chotaro Morita, head of bond strategy at
Barclays Capital Japan Ltd., wrote in a report. “The government
still has to talk about fiscal consolidation to foreign
audiences and this ends up putting corresponding pressure on the
BOJ.”  
 Tax revenue has been hobbled by deflation and four
recessions in the past two decades, helping send public debt
toward 200 percent of GDP, the highest in the 30-member
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  
 A recovery in prices “would be fragile, and Japan could
tip back into deflation with changes in the foreign-exchange
rate or oil price conditions,” said Takehiro Sato, chief Japan
economist at Morgan Stanley in Tokyo. Political pressure “makes
it all the more unlikely the BOJ would embark on an exit
strategy,” he said.  
 Deflation  
 A report on April 30 is estimated by economists to show
consumer prices excluding fresh food probably dropped in March
for the 13th consecutive month. Traders see consumer prices
falling an average 0.9 percent over the next five years, as
measured by the difference in yield between inflation-linked
bonds and conventional debt.  
 Japan’s bonds are headed for the best month since November
after Sumitomo Life Insurance Co., Dai-ichi Life Insurance Co.,
and Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. said they plan to purchase
government debt in the fiscal year started April 1.  
 Insurer demand for super-long bonds is likely to grow
“toward summer,” pushing 20-year yields below 2 percent for
the first time since December, said Tokuyoshi Takano, manager of
the financial derivatives section of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance.
The Financial Services Agency this month said it will increase
the stringency of insurers’ solvency-margin ratios, which
indicate their ability to pay policyholders.  
 “Life insurers hold huge amounts of stocks so they have to
act right away, and it’s evident that proceeds from possible
sales will flow to super-long bonds,” Takano, who manages up to
20 billion yen ($214 million) in assets including debt and
interest-rate derivatives, said in Tokyo.  
 Japanese bonds have handed investors a return of 0.6
percent this month, heading for the largest gain since a 0.8
percent increase in November, according to indexes compiled by
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Theresa Barraclough in Tokyo at 
 tbarraclough@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        