-- Nokia's Failure to Find Apple-Buster Makes It `Ford' of Phones
-- Howard Mustoe
-- 2010-04-23T09:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/nokia-s-failure-to-develop-apple-buster-makes-it-ford-of-phone-industry.html

          
          
             Apple Inc.’s London store is
buzzing as blue-shirted sales assistants scuttle between two
floors. On the opposite side of Regent Street, black plastic
obscures Nokia Oyj’s failed attempt at a U.K. flagship outlet.  
 “I’d definitely pay more for Apple than Nokia,” says 24-
year-old London student Federico Crosato while checking out
Apple’s iPhone. “I need a phone that’s fast, that doesn’t
crash, that has the flexibility.”  
 The must-have brand a decade ago, Nokia is slashing phone
prices and sacrificing profitability after failing to develop a
device with the same appeal as the iPhone or Research in Motion
Inc.’s BlackBerry. The Finnish company has reduced the average
price for a smartphone 18 percent in the last nine months as
consumers are unwilling to pay top dollar.  
 “Unfortunately it’s not Mercedes-Benz or BMW that I think
of when I think of them today,” Carolina Milanesi, an Egham,
U.K.-based analyst at Gartner Inc. said of Nokia. “Ford is what
comes to mind. Reliable, not expensive, and I get a bit more
than I paid for.”  
 That means Espoo, Finland-based Nokia can no longer demand
premium prices for its handsets. The company charged, on
average, 155 euros in the first quarter for a smartphone, down
from 190 euros in the third quarter, squeezing profit. Apple
earned an average of $622 per iPhone in the second quarter,
including services and products.  
 Forecast Cut  
 Nokia yesterday reported first-quarter earnings that missed
analysts’ estimates and cut its margin target, sending the stock
down 14 percent. It now expects an adjusted operating margin for
the handset unit of between 11 percent and 13 percent, down from
12 percent to 14 percent. The margin may be as low as 9 percent
this quarter.  
 “Price declines will continue for the moment until they
get a whole new high-end platform,” said Tero Kuittinen, an
analyst at Greenwich, Connecticut-based MKM Partners who
recommends selling the shares. “With the current models, price
erosion is inevitable.”  
 Nokia isn’t the only company suffering from the ascent of
the iPhone. Motorola Inc., the largest U.S. mobile phone maker,
unexpectedly forecast a first-quarter loss in January,
signalling new handsets are failing to boost sales.  
 Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB is struggling to
keep its place in the top five mobile-phone makers as rivals
race to roll out mass-market products with software comparable
with the iPhone. The company is now rolling out touchscreens
using Google Inc.’s Android software.  
 Lost Appeal  
 The hit brand after its sleek 8110 model appeared in the
movie “The Matrix,” Nokia has been on a downward trajectory
since soon after Apple launched the iPhone in 2007. Nokia’s
average selling price for all models has plummeted 44 percent in
the last five years to 62 euros.  
 “One of the biggest problems is that Nokia has evolved
into a company that’s no longer a technology leader,” said
Boris Boehm, who helps manage 1 billion euros at Aramea Asset
Management in Hamburg, including Nokia shares.  
 Investors have punished it accordingly. In 1999, Nokia had
the highest market value of any European company -- 203 billion
euros ($270 billion). Yesterday, the company was worth 36.3
billion euros. Apple’s current market value is $236 billion.  
 Nokia Chief Executive Officer Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo has
delayed the planned rollout of new high-end phones, saying
yesterday that smartphones with the new version of the Symbian
operating system will be announced in the second quarter and
shipped in the third quarter.  
 Product Delays  
 “They’ve had product delays across the board, while Apple
is stacking up substantial gains,” said Alexander Peterc, a
Paris-based analyst at Exane BNP Paribas. “Even if Nokia comes
out with some devices in the second half and they’re pretty damn
revolutionary, it will be hard for them to compete.”  
 Apple said April 20 iPhone sales more than doubled to 8.75
million handsets in the quarter ended in March as new carriers
signed on in Europe and Asia. The Cupertino, California-based
company reported a 49 percent sales increase and a 90 percent
net income gain.  
 Still, Nokia has size on its side, selling 108 million
phones last quarter, a 16 percent increase from a year ago. The
company, which has battled back before, may be just a hit phone
away from a price rebound.  
 Kallasvuo yesterday vowed to fight back with products that
are “more intuitive, fun and faster.”  
 Chasing iPhone  
 “One product doesn’t change the landscape but it gets them
back in the game,” Jason Willey, a London-based analyst at
Standard & Poor’s Equity Research. “If you look over a longer
timeframe, players have come and gone. The one constant has been
Nokia.”  
 Back on Regent Street, the Nokia signs are gone from the
store, one of three flagships the company closed earlier this
year. On the other side of the city’s main shopping promenade,
Matej Timko, a 24-year-old waiter, is debating whether to buy an
iPhone or the new Google device.  
 “They’re worth the extra money,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Nokia E72  
                       
                         
                           Simon Dawson/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Nokia's E72 mobile handset is held by a customer at a Phones 4U store in London, U.K., on April 22, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Nokia's E72 mobile handset is held by a customer at a Phones 4U store in London, U.K., on April 22, 2010.  Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
