-- Obama Challenges Financial Industry to Join Regulatory Overhaul
-- Hans Nichols
-- 2010-04-23T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/obama-to-say-in-speech-tougher-market-rules-needed-to-avoid-future-crisis.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  challenged
the financial industry yesterday to join rather than fight the
effort to overhaul market regulations as he sought to close the
deal for enactment of his proposals.  
 Speaking to an audience in New York that included  Lloyd Blankfein , chairman and chief executive officer of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , which is being sued by federal regulators over
alleged fraud linked to derivatives, Obama said the industry
will benefit under stronger oversight, and so will the nation.  
 “Ultimately, there is no dividing line between Main
Street and  Wall Street ,” Obama said in his speech at  Cooper
Union , about two miles from the financial district. “We will
rise or we will fall together as one nation.”  
 Obama gave the address as Senate negotiators sought to
agree on a compromise that would get legislation encompassing
the president’s objectives through Congress.  
 The effort has been helped by the administration’s ramped-
up lobbying campaign and last week’s announcement by the
Securities and Exchange Commission that it is suing Goldman
Sachs, alleging the firm misled investors in a collateralized
debt obligation. The company is contesting the SEC’s claims.  
 While Obama criticized the “reckless risk-taking” that
led to the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression and
the “battalions of financial industry lobbyists” trying to
influence the pending legislation, he sought to enlist support
from those he wants to regulate.  
 Wider Interests  
 “I urge you to join me not only because it is in the
interest of your industry, but also because it’s in the interest
of your country,” he said.  
 Financial industry executives interviewed after the speech
generally approved of Obama’s address and its tone.  
 Robert Nichols, president of the Financial Services Forum,
an industry group based in Washington, said Obama’s “rhetoric
was a lot more conciliatory” than in the past remarks. Part of
the reason, he said, may be that movement has occurred toward a
compromise in Congress.  
 “We’re getting closer to agreement,” he told Bloomberg
Television after the speech. “So elevated rhetoric really
doesn’t do any good in terms of getting there.”  
 Second Anniversary  
 Charlie Cook , publisher of the independent  Cook Political
Report  in Washington, said Obama’s tone reflects the
administration’s attempt to get the legislation signed into law
before second anniversary in September of the  Lehman Brothers 
Holdings Inc.’s collapse in the  biggest bankruptcy  filing in
history. That also would have it finished before the November
congressional elections.  
 “The White House desperately needs a bill,” Cook said.
“And hostile rhetoric makes it more difficult to get something
to go through.”  
 Robert Diamond , president of  Barclays Plc (BCS) , said the
administration, Congress and the banking industry are “working
very closely, and very constructively” on the legislation Obama
is seeking. “Strong banks want strong regulation,” he said in
a Bloomberg Television interview outside Cooper Union.  
 Whatever emerges from the negotiations in Congress, Peter Solomon, founder of investment bank Peter J. Solomon Co. and a
former vice chairman of Lehman Brothers, said the financial
industry will adapt.  
 “Wall Street is smarter than any regulation or laws, and
they’ll figure out how to make profits and they’ll figure out
how to adjust,” he said after the speech. He called the
regulatory legislation “a very constructive bill.”  
 Obama’s Audience  
 Other executives and officials who attended the speech
included former  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Paul Volcker , who is an
Obama adviser;  Gary Cohn , president of Goldman Sachs; Barry Zubrow, chief risk officer for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ; and Tom Nides, executive vice president and chief operating officer of
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , according to the White House. The audience also
included labor leaders, local officials and students and faculty
of Cooper Union.  
 Republicans kept up criticism of the Democratic-sponsored
legislation. House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio said
the bill will “provide permanent bailouts for Wall Street.’”  
 In his remarks, Obama sought to rebut such criticism. He
said it wasn’t legitimate “to suggest that somehow the
legislation being proposed is going to encourage future taxpayer
bailouts, as some have claimed. That makes for a good sound
bite, but it’s not factually accurate.”  
 Dodd, Shelby  
 Scott Reed, a Republican strategist, said Obama’s speech
“did nothing to move the needle” in getting the legislation
passed. That work is being done by Democratic Senator
 Christopher Dodd  of Connecticut, chairman of the banking
committee, and Alabama Senator  Richard Shelby , the panel’s
ranking chairman, he said.  
 “Dodd and Shelby are driving this,” Reed said.  
 The legislation, which may come to the Senate floor as
early as next week, would set up a new regulator within the
Federal Reserve to guard consumers against abuse and deception
in such instruments as mortgages, credit cards or loans. It
would also create the mechanism to dismantle systemically
important financial firms when they fail, and strengthen
oversight of derivatives and hedge funds.  
 The House has already passed its version of the regulatory
legislation, and the House and Senate would have to merge their
bills.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net 
 Hans Nichols  in New York at 
 Hnichols2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Kirk at 
 jkirk12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama speaks about financial reform at Cooper Union in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 22 (Bloomberg) -- Barclays Plc President Robert Diamond talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about the outlook for a financial overhaul bill following President Barack Obama's speech in New York calling for the financial industry to drop its "furious efforts" to fight his plan. 
     Diamond said "we are very close" to seeing a bipartisan agreement and that "strong backs want strong regulation." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 22 (Bloomberg) -- Amar Bhide, visiting scholar at Harvard University, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about the progress of legislaiton to overhaul the U.S. financial system.
     President Barack Obama called on the financial industry to drop the “furious effort” to fight his regulation plan, saying a failure to impose tougher rules on the market will put the U.S. economic system at risk.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                           April 22 (Bloomberg) -- Robert Nichols, president of the Financial Services Forum, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about President Barack Obama's speech today on financial regulation and the potential impact of proposed derivatives rules on the country's global competitiveness. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 22 (Bloomberg) -- Roy Smith, a professor of finance at New York University's Stern School of Business, talks with Bloomberg’s Margaret Brennan about the outlook for legislation to overhaul U.S. financial regulation. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Christopher "Chris" Dodd, a Democrat from Connecticut and chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, speaks during a news conference in Washington D.C., on March 15, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd Blankfein, chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., center, walks with Gary Cohn, Goldman's chief operating officer, prior to a speech by U.S. President Barack Obama at Cooper Union in New York on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Robert Diamond, president of Barclays Plc, chats with other attendees before a speech by U.S. President Barack Obama at Cooper Union in New York on April 22, 2010. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
