-- Racing $25 Million Ferrari Across France is a Luxury Escape
-- A. Craig Copetas
-- 2010-04-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/racing-25-million-ferrari-across-france-offers-escape-from-economic-woes.html

          
          
             Ladies and gentlemen, open your
checkbooks and forget about the Icelandic ash crisis that has
put the brakes on the global economy.  
 “This art is powerful, loud, brutal and leaves you
smelling like gasoline,”  Ferrari  appraiser Marcel Massini
shouts through cupped hands as more than $600 million worth of
vintage race cars collectively rev their engines in a dusty
garden alongside the  Louvre  in Paris. “You can invest in a
Picasso, but what fun is that?”  
 Certainly not as amusing as the annual five-day  Optic 2000 
Tour de France d’Automobile, the world’s oldest sports-car
rally that on April 19 attracted 230 cars and 460 prosperous
“pilotes” and “co-pilotes” for the 1,240 mile (2,000
kilometer) cocktail run from Paris to the Mediterranean coastal
town of Beaulieu-sur-Mer.  
 As for the rules of the road, “we organize everything we
can to let you enjoy your time, sadly the thing we cannot do
for you is to book private tables at dinnertime,” Optic
coordinators warn drivers in the race instruction book.  
 “This is a fraternity of like-minded gentlemen, all
interesting and delightful with the common trait of steering
with their accelerators in life and not looking in their rear-
view mirrors,” says Steven Read, the 62-year-old founder of
 Read Investments  in Berkeley, California. “It’s a sport for
art collectors who want to play with their art.”  
 Riding Shotgun  
 Read’s V-12 antique is a 1965 Ferrari 275 GTB/C Series
with a street value of $3.3 million and a top speed of 180 mph,
about 78 mph quicker than the world’s fastest stock lawn mower,
according to the  British Lawn Mower Racing Association . Co-
pilot  Tim Robertson , president of the media investment company
Bay Shore Enterprises LLC in Virginia Beach, Virginia, and the
former chief executive officer of the  Family Channel Inc. 
cable-television network, says his primary role riding shotgun
is to make dinner reservations.  
 “I’m the concierge,” says Robertson, 55, who has driven
the  Ferrari Challenge Series  and raced his Porsche GT3-R at the
Daytona 2000. “I’ve little experience in this sort of
competition. My one expectation is that I won’t wreck my
friend’s car. These are the cars we lusted after as
teenagers.”  
 The Optic rule book offers another warning: “Motor racing
is politically incorrect in France. Respect for the French
Driving Code is a must on the open road.”  
 Speed Limits  
 Although race marshals penalize drivers for exceeding the
speed limit, Massini says the regulation poses a singular
challenge for the 55 vintage Ferraris seeking honors in their
class. “These cars weren’t made with good brakes,” the 52-
year-old Ferrari historian says. “They were made to go
extremely fast on empty public roads in an age that didn’t have
speed limits.”  
 For willing novitiates like Robertson, the most costly
fear is smashing into  Lord Irvine Laidlaw  of Rothiemay’s 1962
Ferrari GTO while going full-tilt boogie against the $25
million car at any of the five race tracks they must tackle
along the route.  
 “The GTO is really worth $5 million,” Massini says amid
laughter. “The other $20 million is the  price  of joining the
GTO club; it’s like the initiation fee at an exclusive golf
club. Ferrari only built 36 GTOs.”  
 “If you have to worry about it, you can’t come,” Read
says of the rally that charges an $8,000 entry fee and costs
drivers some $50,000 more to prepare and ship their cars.  
 Read reckons it’s worth every cent and is a bargain at 9
miles per gallon.  
 ‘Mating Song’  
 “The sound of a Ferrari engine is the Italian mating
song,” he says.  
 Indeed, Read says the attraction of artworks that travel
at speeds approaching 200 mph can be attributed to once high-
testosterone teenagers who grew up, made money and remain
unwilling to renounce the entirety of their youth.  
 “Thirty-minute sprint races and the 24 Hours of Le Mans
are great for anyone under 35 years old,” Read says. “But the
horsepower and value of those cars is often a co-variant to the
mental maturity of the drivers.”  
 And it’s an imprudent investment strategy for the future.  
 “Modern Ferraris depreciate in value,” says Read, who
specializes in collecting Ferraris built between 1962 and 1964.
“Ferraris of the 1960s are international commodities. At any
time, there are a minimum four people in the world willing to
write a check for one.”  
 Cobra Rumble  
 Yet Massini fears the joy of antique grease and octane
vapor will be lost on the iPad generation. “The Optic won’t be
around in 100 years and these cars will be in the Louvre
because modern race cars are all computerized,” Massini rues.
He points to a blue 1970 Shelby AC Cobra rumbling nearby.
“There’s no software you can plug into that V-8 engine.”  
 Read says the 1980s sounded the death knell of the sports
car as an investment vehicle. “Ferrari, Porsche, you name the
maker and all their cars became too reliant on computers and
electronics,” he says before embarking on his seventh Optic.
“You can’t mix the texture with technology, you can’t will
these cars to the finish. You have to feel them. It’s a
valuable lesson in subordination.”  
 He doubts if individuals with the money in 50 years time
will have the ability to maintain a 21st-century racer with a
Le Mans pedigree. “I don’t know how a citizen could handle
it,” Read says. “The modern Ferrari requires a bank of
computers and a high-tech team of software engineers.”  
 Wrench in hand, Sally Mason of Goodwood, England, is now
more concerned about reaching the finish of her 17th Optic
today. “This is the real thing, baby, no computers,” says
Mason, stroking the eggshell-blue pinstripe on the hood of her
red $7 million V-12 1972 Ferrari Competition Daytona. “You can
have my husband, Dudley, but you can’t have my car.”  
 To contact the writer on the story:
A.  Craig Copetas  in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Number 11 1965 Ferrari V-12 275 GTB C-Series owned by Steven Read at the start of the 2010 Opitc 2000 Tour de France d'Automobile in Paris. The car is in the annual five-day race which is the world's oldest sports-car rally. Photographer: Cooper Copetas via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Steven Read poses with his 1965 V-12 Ferrari 275 GTB C-Series in Paris. Read is the founder of Read Investments in Berkeley, California. Photographer: Cooper Copetas via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A vintage 1970 AC Cobra 427 awaits the start of the Optic 2000 Tour de France d'Automobile in Paris.  The car is in the  the world's oldest, annual sports-car five-day rally. Photographer: Cooper Copetas via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
