-- Oil Producers Risk Blowouts in Search for Deep Fields
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-04-23T21:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/rig-sinks-showing-dangers-of-deep-water-drilling.html

          
          
             Energy companies delving miles
beneath the seafloor for oil are risking pressure surges like
the one this week that may have sparked the deadliest U.S. rig
accident in 23 years.  
 Explorers began work on 17 new  Gulf of Mexico  wells last
week in waters deeper than 1,000 feet (305 meters), spurred in
part by a tripling in crude prices in the past decade. The
threat of pressure surges, or blowouts, that can smash steel
equipment and create gushing columns of fire increases as
drillers probe deeper, Neal Dingmann, an analyst at Wunderlich
Securities, said.  
 U.S. Coast Guard rescuers said hope was fading of finding
alive any of the 11 workers missing since an April 20  explosion 
aboard  Transocean Ltd .’s Deepwater Horizon rig, which the
company said may have been caused by a blowout in an 18,000-foot
well. The $365 million vessel sank yesterday and left an oil
sheen on the water large enough to cover more than half of  Manhattan .  
 “Offshore drilling has always been high risk, but when you
talk about wells going to these kinds of depths, the risks go
even higher,” Dingmann said in a telephone interview from
Houston. “Once you go anywhere below 10,000 feet, all of a
sudden the pressure and temperature become a lot more difficult
to contend with.”  
 If the 11 missing workers are declared dead, it would be
the worst offshore oil-industry accident in U.S. waters since
1987, when a helicopter crashed into a Forest Oil Corp.
platform, killing 14 people, according to a Bloomberg News
analysis of data from the U.S. Interior Department’s  Minerals
Management Service .  
 No Warning  
 Some workers were killed by the explosion on the Deepwater
Horizon and others were thrown overboard, according to a lawsuit
filed by the family of missing roustabout Shane Roshto against
BP and Transocean.  
 Adrian Rose, who oversees Geneva-based  Transocean’s 
quality, health, safety and environment unit, said yesterday
that the disaster unfolded with little or no warning.  
 Michael Kersey told reporters in Kenner, Louisiana, that
his brother, Jonathan Kersey, was aboard the Deepwater Horizon
when it erupted in flames.  
 “He said it was the scariest thing he saw in his life,”
Michael Kersey said. Jonathan Kersey, 33, was among those who
escaped in a life boat, his brother said.  
 The accident may spur calls for tougher oversight and
increased regulation of the drilling industry, as well as raise
legal risks for companies.  
 Political Pressure  
 President  Barack Obama  last month proposed expanding
offshore drilling in some U.S. coastal areas.  
 “This accident happened at exactly the wrong time,” Jud Bailey, a Houston-based analyst for Jefferies & Co., said in a
telephone interview. “The offshore industry has a good safety
record, but this is something environmentalists can grab onto
and say, ‘See, this is why you shouldn’t drill.’”  
 Senator Mary L. Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat, urged the
Coast Guard and the Minerals Management Service, which has
authority over oil and gas exploration in federal waters, to
“conduct a swift and thorough investigation.”  
 “It is critical that these agencies examine what went
wrong and the environmental impact this incident has created,”
Landrieu said in a statement.  
 Cote de Mer  
 The minerals agency requires energy producers to inspect
wells at least every 30 days during exploration work, John Schiller, chief executive officer of Energy XXI (Bermuda) Ltd.,
said on a November conference call with investors.  
 Energy XXI, along with partners that included Nexen Inc.,
spent $75 million to bring a June 2007 blowout at the Cote de
Mer field in  Louisiana  under control. A surge of gas in the
22,261-foot well blew through a device known as a blowout
preventer, burying the rig floor in six feet of sand, rock and
seashells. No one was injured, the company said.  
 Oilfield-equipment makers such as  Ametek Inc . and  FMC
Technologies Inc . are working to develop hardware that can
withstand pressures and temperatures in wells that can plunge
more than 32,000 feet (9,754 meters) into the Earth’s crust.  
 “The conditions keep getting worse as they go deeper,”
said Brian Ainley, director of business development at Ametek’s
Chandler Engineering unit in Broken Arrow,  Oklahoma .  
 Calculating Risks  
 Some companies aren’t willing to risk the danger of a
blowout.  Exxon Mobil Corp ., the world’s second-largest oil
company, abandoned its Blackbeard well in the Gulf of  Mexico  in
2006 after the company’s engineers became alarmed over the
pressure levels and temperatures almost seven miles beneath the
seafloor, Dingmann said.  
   McMoRan Exploration Co . obtained control over Blackbeard in
2007 as part of its $1.1 billion acquisition of offshore assets
from Newfield Exploration Co., one of Exxon’s partners in the
project. McMoRan of  New Orleans  extended the well almost 3,000
feet deeper than where Exxon left it.  
 James “Jim Bob” Moffett, co-chairman of McMoRan, told
investors on a January conference call that the risks of dealing
with higher-pressure deposits may be worthwhile because those
fields have more oil and gas packed into each square yard of
rock.  
 Transocean fell 40 cents to $89.89 at 5:02 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. BP rose 3.3 pence to 639.70
pence.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 Jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;  Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Kenner, Louisiana, at
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Fireboats battle the blaze at the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 21, 2010. Source: U.S. Coast Guard/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The Deepwater Horizon drilling rig  
                       
                         
                           Transocean Ltd. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         A file photo of the the Transocean Ltd. Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A file photo of the the Transocean Ltd. Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico. Source: Transocean Ltd. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
