-- HSBC Shifts Funds From Emerging Markets to Developed Nations as Rates Rise
-- Lilian Karunungan
-- 2010-04-23T05:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/hsbc-s-mahendran-shifts-funds-from-emerging-markets-as-interest-rates-rise.html

          
          
             HSBC Private Bank is shifting funds
to shares in developed nations and cutting holdings of bonds and
stocks in emerging markets, predicting asset prices will drop as
much as 10 percent as developing nations raise interest rates.  
 “Emerging markets will underperform for another six
months,” Arjuna Mahendran, Singapore-based head of investment
strategy for Asia at the unit of Europe’s largest bank, said in
an interview yesterday. “We’ve been investing in the U.S. and
Europe for the last three months because we feel the risk return
trade-off is better.”  
 Shares in the U.S. and Europe are outperforming China and
India so far this year as policy makers in developed markets
keep interest rates low to revive economies reeling from the
worst slump since the Great Depression. Central banks in Asia,
which is leading the global recovery, are starting to raise
borrowing costs to prevent overheating and slow inflation.  
 The view of HSBC Private Bank, which controls assets of
$460 billion globally, contrasts with that of Pacific Investment
Management Co., manager of the world’s biggest bond fund. Pimco
recommended investors buy emerging-market bonds rather than debt
of developed countries because advanced economies are headed for
slower growth, bogged down by higher taxation and regulations.  
 India has increased borrowing costs twice in 2010 and China
in February ordered banks to set aside a bigger portion of
deposits as reserves for a second time this year. Australia,
Malaysia and Vietnam have also raised interest rates. In
contrast, monetary policy in the U.S., Europe and Japan is
“very loose and inflation is very low,” said Mahendran.  
 ‘Further Correction’  
 China’s CSI 300 Index of shares has declined 11 percent
this year, following a 97 percent rally in 2009. India’s Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index is up 1.2 percent, after last
year’s 81 percent gain. The Standard & Poor’s 500 index of U.S.
equities has climbed 8 percent and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
advanced 4.5 percent.  
 “I expect there will be a correction in emerging-market
stocks and bonds,” Mahendran said. Monetary tightening “will
take money off the table and have an impact on stock markets.”  
 Demand for higher-yielding bonds in emerging markets has
driven down the premiums investors demand to hold the debt. The
difference in yield over U.S. Treasuries shrank to 2.45
percentage points yesterday, approaching a December 2007 low of
2.21 percentage points, according to the EMBI Plus Index
compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 ‘Spread Compression’  
 “The spread compression will peak at some point,” said
Mahendran, adding that he will then sell emerging-market bonds
maturing in seven to 10 years. “I will watch for an
opportunity.”  
 Central banks in the U.S., Europe and Japan have kept
interest rates at near-zero to one percent, compared with 3.75
percent in India, 6.5 percent in Indonesia and 4 percent in the
Philippines.  
 Emerging-market bond funds have attracted $11.6 billion
this year, compared with the previous all-time high of $9.7
billion set in 2005, according to Massachusetts-based EPFR
Global, which tracks $13 trillion in assets globally  
 Mahendran said he favored debt in Russia, the world’s
largest energy exporter, because its central bank cut interest
rates for the 12th time in less than a year.  
 “Russia is seeing remarkably low inflation rates, compared
with China, Brazil and India,” Mahendran said. “Within the
BRICs, Russia is smelling roses because oil prices are going up
and Russia is directly dependent on oil prices.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Russian flag flies atop Russia's central bank in Moscow, on Dec. 22, 2009. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
