-- South Africa's Gold Miners Should Merge to Stem Declines, Gold Fields Says
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-04-23T15:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/south-african-miners-should-consolidate-to-stem-decline-gold-fields-says.html

          
          
             South Africa’s gold mining
industry, the world’s fourth-largest, should consolidate and
embrace new working methods to stem a decline in output, which
has dropped by half in the past decade, Gold Fields Ltd. said.  
 “There is a risk of job cuts if we don’t do something
different,” Chief Executive Officer Nick Holland said.
“Declining production against fixed costs tells you that the
margin is going to decline if you don’t do something.”  
 South Africa has the world’s deepest and most dangerous
mines, where workers extract the metal out of rock as far as
2.35 miles (3.8 kilometers) underground in hot, dark and damp
conditions. Producers seeking to expand or maintain output face
rising costs as they dig deeper to exploit shrinking reserves.  
 Gold production in Africa’s largest economy peaked at more
than 1 million kilograms (2.2 million pounds) a year in 1970,
the Johannesburg-based Chamber of Mines said. Last year, the
country produced about 205,000 kilograms, the lowest since 1907.  
 “We need to look for areas where there’s potential to
accelerate reserves,” Holland, 51, said in an April 21
interview in Johannesburg. “There are some opportunities, and
that’s the area we should focus on.”  
 Gold Fields is open to a merger of assets with AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd., Africa’s largest gold producer, Mining Weekly, a
Johannesburg-based magazine, reported on April 20.  
 Consolidation Opportunities  
 “There are potential opportunities for consolidation in
the sector in this country, and I would be willing to
participate in a review of those opportunities,” Holland said.
“But there’s nothing substantive, no formal discussions.”  
 AngloGold spokesman Alan Fine declined to comment on the
report, saying the company is focused on cutting costs.  
 Gold Fields is in talks with labor unions about lengthening
the working week at its South African operations. A six-day week
“would give us an extra month a year,” Holland said. “The
industry faces the same issue, we’re all grappling with the same
problem.”  
 The National Union of Mineworkers, which represents as much
as 80 percent of Gold Fields’s 47,000 employees, is open to the
idea of a longer working week, spokesman Shane Choshane said.  
 “Working on Saturday must be voluntary and not compulsory,
and it must be considered overtime,” he said by phone from
Johannesburg today.  
 Gold Fields, which also has mines in Ghana, Peru and
Australia, gets about 58 percent of its production from South
Africa. The company’s output in the nation will be in the region
of 2.1 million to 2.3 million ounces a year for the next five
years, Holland said.  
 Gold Resources  
 “There’s a lot of gold here still, and we’ve got a lot of
resources,” he said.  
 Gold Fields’s net income rose 40 percent to 1.41 billion
rand ($188 million) for the three months through December,
helped by higher metals prices. The company releases its third-
quarter earnings on May 7.  
 Shares of Gold Fields, Africa’s second-largest gold
producer, have fallen 0.3 percent in the last 12 months, valuing
the company at 68.6 billion rand. The stock rose 1.70 rand, or
1.8 percent, to close at 97.20 rand in Johannesburg today.  
 South Africa is the world’s largest producer of platinum
and Africa’s biggest gold producer. It is the world’s fourth-
largest gold producer, after China, Australia and the U.S., the
South African Chamber of Mines said on March 12.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ron Derby in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The South African headquarters for Gold Fields Ltd., are seen in Parktown, Johannesburg on Dec. 19, 2007. Photographer: Nadine Hutton/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
