-- Starwood Capital Will Make New Bid for Extended Stay Hotels, Lawyer Says
-- Thom Weidlich
-- 2010-04-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/starwood-capital-will-make-new-bid-for-extended-stay-hotels-lawyer-says.html

          
          
             Starwood Capital Group LLC will
make a new bid for Extended Stay Hotels Inc., which filed the
largest bankruptcy case by a U.S. hotel owner, a Starwood lawyer
said in court.  
 “We’re interested in bidding for this company,” Bruce
Zirinksy said yesterday at a hearing in Manhattan in which U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge James Peck approved the bidding procedures.
“We think we have already, through our prior bid, increased the
company’s value by several hundreds of millions of dollars.”  
 Starwood’s earlier bid for the company, which had
$7.6 billion in debt when it sought bankruptcy protection in
June, was overtaken by one for $905.4 million from Centerbridge
Partners LP and Paulson & Co. Zirinsky told Peck that he and
Starwood learned on April 21 that Blackstone Group LP will
become a third partner in the Centerbridge-Paulson bid for the
company.  
 David Lichtenstein’s Lightstone Group LLC bought Extended
Stay in 2007, relying on more than $7 billion in debt financing
to complete the $8 billion deal weeks before the leveraged-
buyout market imploded. Lightstone bought Extended Stay from
Blackstone.  
 The bidding procedures were developed by Extended Stay and
approved by Centerbridge and Paulson, according to court papers.
Centerbridge and Paulson’s investment offer would be the so-
called stalking-horse bid that sets a minimum price for the
company that others would have to top.  
 May 27 Auction  
 The deadline for investors’ proposals is May 17, with the
auction to be held May 27. If no qualifying bid is received for
the 680-hotel chain, the company will ask the court on June 17
to approve the disclosure statement explaining the
reorganization plan, including the Centerbridge-led offer.  
 “I’m satisfied that the procedures as they have evolved,
with some adjustments that I will mention, represent, with
apologies to Fox News, a fair and balanced approach,” Peck said
during what he called the “robust, contested hearing.”  
 Based on arguments by Zirinsky, Peck got Extended Stay to
change a provision that would have allowed Centerbridge and
Paulson to see the other offers a week before the other bidders
and less than two days before the auction. Now they’ll see the
other offers at the same time.  
 The judge otherwise denied all objections.  
 Several parties, including the unsecured creditors,
complained about a provision allowing the Centerbridge group to
be involved in figuring the valuation method for comparing non-
cash to cash elements in the bids.  
 ‘Balls and Strikes’  
 “It creates a potential that one of the bidders is going
to be able to determine how balls and strikes are going to be
called,” said Zirinsky of Greenberg Traurig LLP.  
 Jacqueline Marcus, a lawyer for Extended Stay at Weil,
Gotshal & Manges, said others could have input.  
 “Anybody who wants to discuss with Lazard that valuation
methodology, we’re happy to talk to them,” she said.  
 Lazard Freres & Co. is Extended Stay’s financial adviser.  
 Marcus said yesterday that the competing bids don’t have to
follow the same structure as the Centerbridge-led offer.  
 “We agree with the debtors and the other parties that the
bidding procedures are reasonably acceptable as is,” said Brad
Scheler, a lawyer for Centerbridge and Paulson at Fried, Frank,
Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP. “There will be bidding,
additional bidding, and there will be change.”  
 The creditors opposed a provision for a so-called credit
bid, allowing the mortgage-debt holder to bid its secured debt,
rather than cash, at auction. They also requested an examiner to
oversee the bidding process.  
 ‘Run to Court’  
 “If there turns out to be a problem, there will be plenty
of observers who can run to court and tell me what was wrong,”
Peck said.  
 Some parties, including the unsecured creditors, argued the
process was being rushed.  
 “Our position is, right now is an opportune time to have
the auction,” Ari Lefkovits, a director at Lazard, testified at
the hearing. “We have a number of interested parties who we
believe are ready to bid.”  
 At an April 8 hearing, Marcia Goldstein, a lawyer for
Extended Stay at Weil Gotshal, said the company favored the
Centerbridge-Paulson offer over Starwood’s. Under the terms,
Extended Stay can seek out better deals.  
 Starwood’s offer was for the same amount. Centerbridge, a
New York private-equity firm, and Paulson, a New York asset
manager, didn’t demand the breakup fees that Starwood required,
making their offer financially superior, said Goldstein.  
 Better Offer  
 Zirinsky said yesterday that the original Starwood bid was
better than the Centerbridge-led offer, a contention Marcus
rebuffed.  
 “The Starwood proposal was not a better proposal because,
importantly, it had certain” bid protections,” Marcus said.  
 Starwood’s bid was more than double an earlier one by
Centerbridge, which Spartanburg, South Carolina-based Extended
Stay rejected after the Starwood offer.  
 Centerbridge and Paulson made the new offer March 29, and
Extended Stay has received a $150 million deposit from them,
according to court documents. Other bidders will be required to
put down the same deposit.  
 The new Centerbridge-Paulson offer includes $450 million in
cash, $200 million to backstop a rights offering and as much as
$255.4 million to creditors who elect to take cash at a
30 percent discount to the value of the stock the reorganization
plan otherwise would give them.  
 The $450 million equity injection is for 43 percent of the
new company and the backstop represents another 19 percent.  
 Five Mile Capital Partners LLC, an alternative-investment
firm in Stamford, Connecticut, and TPG, a private-equity firm in
Fort Worth, Texas, are part of Starwood’s investment group.  
 The case is In re Extended Stay Inc. 09-13764, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        