-- Ukraine Debt Costs Poised to Drop, Rival Greece, After Russia Gas Accord
-- Daryna Krasnolutska
-- 2010-04-23T05:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/ukraine-debt-costs-poised-to-drop-rival-greece-after-russia-gas-accord.html

          
          
             Ukraine’s $40 billion budget-saving
deal with Russia may push yields on the former Soviet state’s
debt below 10 percent for the first time in more than two years,
rivaling borrowing costs in Greece, economists at Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Unicredit SpA said.  
 Russia on April 21 agreed to charge Ukraine 30 percent less
for its natural gas in an accord that will help reduce the
bailout-reliant country’s public deficit to 6 percent this year
from 8.8 percent in 2009. The deal, which cements Ukraine’s ties
with its neighbor to the east, enables the Kiev-based government
to resume its International Monetary Fund program and reassure
investors its finances are intact.  
 “Domestic yields should gradually fall to the low double
digits and may even go into the high single digits now that the
budget deficit will be much smaller,” Ivan Tchakarov, an
economist at Nomura in London, said by telephone. Yields on two-
year debt may be below 10 percent by August, according to Dmitry
Gourov, an economist at Unicredit in Vienna.  
 Ukraine’s efforts to resurrect the economy from last year’s
15 percent contraction are starting to pay off and debt markets
are taking note. Credit default swaps on five-year debt have
more than halved this year, while the yield on the country’s
2016 dollar bond shed about 5 percentage points in the period.
The economy grew an annual 5 percent last quarter, the
government estimates, helping the hryvnia gain 11 percent
against the dollar since a low at the beginning of September.  
 Sentiment Improving  
 Investors demanded 14 percent to hold 20 million hryvnia
($2.53 million) in notes due 2012, at an April 21 auction. That
compares with an average yield of 25.55 percent at a Jan. 20
auction for the same maturity debt. The yield on Greece’s two
year debt soared to more than 10 percent yesterday after the
European Union’s Luxembourg-based statistics office said its
budget deficit may exceed 14 percent of gross domestic product.  
 Credit default swaps on Ukraine’s five-year debt were
yesterday overtaken by CDS on Greek debt, with the Greek five-
year contract surging 151 basis points to a record 638.9,
compared with 555 on Ukraine’s debt, according to CMA prices on
Bloomberg.  
 Russia’s support is “definitely constructive to Ukrainian
assets, as risk sentiment continues to improve,” said Luis
Costa, an emerging market strategist at Citigroup Inc., in a
note to clients.  
 Market Reassurance  
 In exchange for Russia’s gas subsidies, Ukraine will let
the Moscow-based government keep its Black Sea Fleet base 25
years longer than the existing contract allows. President Viktor
Yanukovych said the total value of Russia’s support is $40
billion, with assistance amounting to $3 billion this year and
$4 billion in 2011.  
 The IMF on April 21 raised its estimate for Ukraine’s
economic growth this year to 3.7 percent from 2.7 percent
previously. That compares with 4 percent projected growth in
Russia and a 2 percent contraction in Greece, the fund estimates.  
 “Yields on domestic paper will moderate further and the
mere existence of a deal with the IMF will give markets
reassurance that the new government might be more willing to
implement fiscal tightening,” said Tchakarov. “Good news.”  
 The government of Prime Minister Mykola Azarov says it has
obtained a new $12 billion loan with the IMF running 2 1/2 years.
The program will replace the existing $16.4 billion agreement,
of which $10.6 billion has been paid out. The IMF hasn’t
confirmed the arrangement.  
 Ukraine’s long-term domestic debt is rated B at Standard &
Poor’s, five levels below investment grade. S&P rates Greece’s
domestic debt BBB+, three grades above junk.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top Stories: TOP <GO>
Stories about Ukrainian economy: TNI UKR ECO <GO>
Industrial production: UAIPYY <Index> HP <GO>
Emerging market view: EMMV <GO>
Top Stories: TOP <GO>  
          
          


  


        