-- Hungary May Be Central Europe Bond Investors' `Darling' on Fidesz Mandate
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-04-23T08:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/hungary-may-be-central-europe-bond-investors-darling-on-fidesz-mandate.html

          
          
             Hungary may become a favorite of
investors in central Europe if the impending Fidesz government
strengthens its mandate with a two-thirds parliamentary majority
and uses it to overhaul state bureaucracy and public finances.  
 Fidesz, led by former Prime Minister Viktor Orban, on April
11 won 206 of 386 parliamentary seats and will form a new
administration. In the April 25 second round, it needs 52 of the
121 seats on offer to have the right to change the constitution.  
 That would bring “relief among investors” and allow Orban
to tackle “tough issues dodged by previous administrations,”
said Nigel Rendell, an emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital
in London. “If the new government bites the bullet, Hungary
could become the darling of central Europe.”  
 Hungary, once a frontrunner in the transition to a free-
market economy from communism, lost its edge as successive
governments racked up debt to fund higher spending. The nation
is undergoing its fifth year of austerity to narrow a deficit
that was the European Union’s widest in 2006 and was 4 percent
of gross domestic product last year. Fidesz has promised to cut
taxes to boost competitiveness and contain the budget gap.  
 “We have a positive view on Hungary,” said Steven Gardyn,
who helps manage 500 million euros ($667 million) in emerging
European bonds at KBC Asset Management SA in Luxembourg. A
strong mandate will be “perceived very well” as it may push
through an overhaul in “close co-operation with the IMF.”  
 Debt Levels  
 The country was forced to take a 20 billion-euro ($27
billion) loan from the International Monetary Fund, the EU and
the World Bank to avert a default in 2008 as the credit crisis
choked investment and exports and investors shunned riskier
emerging-market assets.  
 The debt level, forecast to reach 80 percent of GDP this
year from 78.3 percent of GDP in 2009, and the country’s
reliance on foreign-currency loans make Hungarian assets less
attractive than some other countries in the region, which
benefited from rising debt in developed nations and Greece’s
financial crisis.  
 The forint gained 15 percent against the euro since hitting
its weakest level in March 2009, the second-best performer among
emerging European currencies after the Polish zloty. The
currency was trading at 265.43 to the euro by 10:38 a.m. in
Budapest, its weakest level since the first round of elections
on April 11. The benchmark BUX Index more than doubled over the
past year, suggesting rising confidence in an economic recovery.  
 The cost to protect against a Hungarian default last week
fell to the lowest since October 2008 and was at 188.3 basis
points today, according to CMA Datavision. Hungarian credit
default swaps, about 150 basis points higher than Greece’s in
September 2008, are now more than 300 basis points lower.  
 Generating Growth  
 Generating growth, after a 6.3 percent contraction in 2009
and a recession that extended into this year, with tax cuts and
measures to raise competitiveness, is a requirement for fiscal
consolidation, Orban said on April 12. Conditions attached to
the country’s $27 billion bailout exacerbated the economic slump
as unemployment rose to a record, helping radicals post their
biggest electoral gains since communism fell.  
 “I can’t implement any economic or budget consolidation if
we can’t put the economy on a path to growth,” Orban said.  
 Orban, who wants to renegotiate and extend the IMF-led loan
agreement, says the budget deficit goal of 3.8 percent of gross
domestic product for this year is unsustainable and he has
promised to present a new budget assessment by the end of May.  
 Wider Shortfall  
 The new government may widen the shortfall to 5.5 percent
of output this year as it will consolidate the losses of state-
owned companies, Saxo Bank said in an e-mailed report this week.  
 In the first round of the election, the Socialist Party,
ousted after eight years in power, won 28 seats, the radical
nationalist Jobbik party gained 26 and Lehet Mas a Politika, a
green group, got 5.  
 Orban is seeking a majority that would allow him to change
the constitution, reduce the size of local councils and
parliament, change laws governing elections, referenda,
citizenship and media, and nominate members of the Constiutional
Court.  
 Support for a two-thirds majority for Fidesz rose to a
record after the first round, according to an April 21 Nezopont
Intezet poll. Fifty-seven percent of those surveyed between
April 16 and 18 said it would be beneficial for the country if
the party obtained such a mandate, according to the poll.  
 Fidesz also has pledged to cut the number and size of local
councils and parliaments and merge ministries.  
 The second round will decide whether Fidesz will have to
“bargain with anybody to reach decisions needing a two-thirds
majority,” Fidesz Vice President Mihaly Varga said on April 19.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 Ebalazs1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Monuments stand in Heroes Square in Budapest, on June 28, 2009. Photographer: Balint Porneczi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
