-- UAL, Continental Weigh No-Premium Stock Merger
-- Mary Jane Credeur
-- 2010-04-23T20:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-22/united-airlines-continental-are-said-to-consider-no-premium-stock-merger.html

          
          
             UAL Corp.’s United Airlines and
Continental Airlines Inc. are studying a stock-for-stock merger
with no premium, two people with knowledge of the talks said, in
a deal that would create the world’s largest carrier.  
 Continental Chief Executive Officer Jeff Smisek, 55, would
run the combined company as CEO while United’s Glenn Tilton, 62,
would be chairman, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because details are private. The terms aren’t set,
and a deal may be more than a week away, the people said.  
 Putting the airlines together would form a carrier valued
at more than $6 billion. The people described the discussions
yesterday after US Airways Group Inc. said that it had ended
separate merger talks with United, leaving Continental and
United as the focus of industry consolidation.  
 “This is the right merger at the right time,” said Hunter
Keay, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, who
recommends buying UAL and Continental. “I don’t see a lot of
impediments. Corporate travel is improving, there’s no revenue
crisis and oil isn’t $145 a barrel” as it was in 2008 when
their negotiations on a tie-up fell through.  
 Directors and executives for the new airline besides Tilton
and Smisek may be drawn from both United and Continental, the
people said.  
 Setting Price  
 While the airlines have tentatively agreed to a stock
merger valuing each company at its market price with no premium,
they haven’t determined what prices would be used to compute the
exchange ratio, one of the people said. Companies merging in
stock transactions typically use the market prices on a given
day or the average over a period of time to set the ratio.  
 Julie King, a spokeswoman for Continental, and Jean Medina,
a spokeswoman for Chicago-based United, declined to comment on
whether the airlines are in talks.  
 United and Continental are the third- and fourth-largest
U.S. airlines by traffic, trailing Delta Air Lines Inc. and
American Airlines. A merged carrier would be bigger than Delta,
which took the top spot by buying Northwest Airlines Corp. in
2008. Broader route networks help airlines funnel in more
passengers.  
 Based on yesterday’s closing stock prices, the combined
company would have a market value of $6.6 billion. UAL’s value
was about $3.64 billion and Houston-based Continental’s was
about $2.98 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Stock Reaction  
       UAL rose $1.28, or 5.9 percent, to $22.99 at 4 p.m. in New
York in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, while Continental gained 58
cents, or 2.7 percent, to $22.01 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  
 The two airlines’ discussions began this month, following
talks that started in February between United and US Airways,
people have said. US Airways pulled out after concluding that
United was more interested in pursuing Continental, people
familiar with those talks said yesterday.  
 The 2008 negotiations between United and Continental
collapsed when Continental decided to stay independent.
Continental later joined the Star Alliance group of airlines led
by United.  
 Tilton was CEO at the time, after joining United in 2002,
while Continental was led by Larry Kellner. Smisek was president
when those conversations were held, and took the top spot at
Continental in January when Kellner retired.  
 Passing Delta  
 Together, United and Continental would leapfrog Delta for
the top spot across both the Atlantic and Pacific among U.S.
airlines, with 40 percent and 53 percent of traffic, based on
data compiled by Bloomberg. The merged carrier would be No. 2 in
Latin America behind AMR Corp.’s American.  
 Blending their route systems would produce two hubs at U.S.
East Coast business centers, United’s at Washington Dulles and
Continental’s at Newark, New Jersey. United’s routes include
flights between Washington and Moscow, a city not served by
Continental.  
 Benefits from a “global network should outweigh any of the
near-term costs” of integrating, said Jeff Straebler, a fixed-
income strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford,
Connecticut. “They would make a much stronger carrier.”  
 Management’s next steps in crafting a merger probably will
include reaching out to labor groups to ensure a smooth
integration, Straebler said.  
 US Airways’ View  
 While neither United nor Continental has ever said that any
merger talks are under way, Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways
confirmed the discussions with United by announcing that the
conversations were over.  
 “Over the past several months, we have studied a
transaction with United,” US Airways CEO Doug Parker told
employees in a letter. “However, those talks have not
progressed to a merger agreement, and for the foreseeable future
we intend to remain a stand-alone carrier.”  
 Smisek didn’t mention United when discussing Continental’s
approach to consolidation when he spoke with analysts on a
conference call after reporting first-quarter results yesterday.  
 “We are examining Continental’s options and will take
whatever action we believe to be in the best interest of our
stockholders, customers, employees and the communities we
serve,” Smisek said on the call.  
 United’s Medina, commenting in a statement issued after US
Airways disclosed the talks with UAL, said: “We have long said
that we believe this industry would benefit from consolidation,
and we thoroughly consider opportunities based on what’s in the
best interests of our company, our employees, our customers, our
shareholders and the communities we serve.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 Maryc.s@bloombeg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Glenn Tilton, chief executive officer of United Airlines  
                       
                         
                           Bernardo De Niz/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Glenn Tilton, chief executive officer of United Airlines, speaks during a signing ceremony in Beijing, on March. 29, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Glenn Tilton, chief executive officer of United Airlines, speaks during a signing ceremony in Beijing, on March. 29, 2010. Photographer: Bernardo De Niz/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Betty Liu reports on the latest breaking business news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jeff Smisek, of Continental Airlines Inc.  
                       
                         
                           Jin Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Jeff Smisek, president and chief operating officer of Continental Airlines Inc., speaks during a media briefing in New York, on Oct. 27, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jeff Smisek, president and chief operating officer of Continental Airlines Inc., speaks during a media briefing in New York, on Oct. 27, 2009. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
