-- Astral Media Says First-Quarter Net Doubles on TV
-- Frederic Tomesco
-- 2007-01-11T21:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-11/astral-media-says-first-quarter-net-doubles-on-tv-update4-.html

          
          
             Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A) ,  Canada 's biggest
pay- and specialty-television broadcaster, said first-quarter
profit more than doubled as tax costs fell and TV advertising
sales increased.  
 Net income in the quarter ended Nov. 30 climbed to C$32.6
million ($27.7 million), or 60 cents a share, from C$15.2
million, or 27 cents, Montreal-based Astral said today in a
statement. Astral had C$14.8 million in costs last year from
taxes after the Quebec government raised the corporate rate.  
 Astral, which owns stakes in 16 specialty TV stations, won
more subscribers with channels such as Super Ecran and the Movie
Network, helping to boost TV ad sales 14 percent. Viewers have
migrated from conventional stations to pay channels that target
their interests, helping Astral increase total sales 6.9
percent.  
 ``Astral has excellent exposure to all of the highest
growth media segments, each of which is demonstrating solid
momentum heading into 2007,'' RBC Capital Markets analyst Drew McReynolds said in a report Jan. 8. He has a ``Top Pick'' rating
on the stock.  
 Excluding some items, Astral was expected to earn 59 cents
a share, the average estimate of five analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. The estimate of Scotia Capital analyst Andrew Mitchell was 58 cents.  
 Canadian viewers of conventional television fell to 41
percent of the population in 2005 from 47 percent in 1999, while
viewers of specialty channels rose to 36 percent from 23
percent, according to Nielsen data.  
 Radio, TV  
 Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in Astral's television unit, which accounts for 73
percent of revenue, rose 12 percent to C$43.1 million in the
quarter. On that basis, profit in the radio unit rose 4.3
percent to C$10.5 million, while earnings in the outdoor
advertising unit declined less than 1 percent to C$5 million.  
 Subscription fees paid by cable and satellite-TV companies
account for about 60 percent of Astral's revenue, while the rest
comes from the time and space that the company sells to
advertisers. The company also owns more than 3,700 outdoor
advertising billboards in  Quebec  and Ontario and 29  radio
stations  in Eastern Canada.  
 Astral is seeking purchases in TV, radio and outdoor ads,
Chief Executive Officer Ian Greenberg said on a conference call
today. Rival CanWest Global Communications Corp. yesterday
agreed to buy Alliance Atlantis Communications Inc., which owns
13 specialty channels, for C$2.3 billion with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  
 Possible Partners  
 Astral could link up with broadcaster  Corus Entertainment
Inc. (CJR/B)  to compete with CanWest and CTVglobemedia Inc., which owns
the Globe and Mail newspaper and the CTV network, Desjardins
Securities analyst Carl Bayard said today in a report.  
 Astral's widely traded Class A shares rose 16 cents to
C$44.46 by 4 p.m. in trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The
stock has gained 44 percent in the past year.  
 (Astral held a conference call earlier today to discuss the
results. A replay will be available at
 http://www.astralmedia.com .)  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        