-- Modelo Says Agency Permits Exclusive Store Contracts
-- William Freebairn
-- 2007-01-11T22:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-01-11/modelo-says-agency-permits-exclusive-store-contracts-update3-.html

          
          
             Grupo Modelo SA (GMODELOC) , Mexico's largest
beermaker, can continue exclusive contracts with the country's
retailers after antitrust regulators rejected a complaint by
SABMiller Plc.  
 The Federal Competition Commission ordered an end to the
exclusive contracts in August, and then reversed itself in a
ruling yesterday, Modelo, the maker of Corona beer, said in an
e-mailed statement. The investigation has ended, the company
said.  
 The decision bolsters Modelo and limits the access of
rival SABMiller, the world's second-largest beermaker, to the
Mexican market. The contracts in question were deals with
independent stores to carry only Modelo beverage brands, often
in refrigerators provided by the beermaker.  
 ``Obviously, if you have to open up your coolers to other
brands, it would hurt,'' Lauren Torres, an HSBC analyst, said
today. ``With rulings like this, it makes it seem much like a
protected market.''  
 SABMiller (SAB)  had accused Modelo and the country's second-
largest beermaker Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB, also known as
Femsa, of monopolistic practices in beer distribution.
Together, the two companies control 99 percent of domestic beer
sales, Torres said.  
 ``Modelo and Femsa dominate cooler space, particularly at
mom-and-pop retailers where people buy products cold,'' Torres
said. She initiated coverage of Modelo Dec. 13 with a
``neutral'' rating.  
 Grupo Modelo  shares  rose 80 centavos, or 1.4 percent, to
57.76 pesos on the Mexican stock exchange.  
 Uncertainty Ended?  
 Modelo, which also owns a chain of  convenience stores  that
distribute its products, said the ruling ends uncertainty about
its distribution deals with independent retailers.  
 ``The exclusive contracts are competitive,'' said Jorge Siegrist Prado, vice president of corporate relations for
Modelo, in a telephone interview from  Mexico  City. He said the
company showed regulators that the deals did not affect prices.  
 Carlos Laboy, an analyst at Bear Stearns & Co., said the
company also provided beer licenses to retailers in exchange
for exclusivity. There are several additional barriers for non-
Mexican companies to enter the market, including the widespread
use of returnable glass bottles and strength of regional
brands, he said.  
 Eduardo Perez Motta, president of the FCC, wasn't
immediately available for comment, according to his office in
Mexico City.  
 `Disappointed' on Ruling  
 Peter Marino, a spokesman for SABMiller's Miller Brewing
Co., said the company had not seen the ruling. ``We're
disappointed if the FCC is reversing its prior decision,'' he
said in a telephone interview from  Milwaukee .  
 Femsa released a statement saying it has yet to hear from
the antitrust regulators on the complaint against it.  
 Modelo has 55 percent of the beer market in Mexico, which
is the world's eighth-largest beer consumer, Torres wrote in a
research report last month.  
 The company is 50 percent owned by  Anheuser-Busch Cos. (BUD) ,
the world's largest brewer. In January, Modelo began a new
import agreement to allow Constellation Brands Inc. to handle
distribution of its beers including Corona for the U.S.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
William Freebairn in Mexico City at 
 wfreebairn@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol at 
 mnol@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        