-- Orthopedic device makers get notice of SEC probe
-- 
-- Fri Oct 12, 2007 1:22pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/10/12/businesspro-zimmer-investigation-dc-idUSN1230282320071012

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Orthopedic device makers Zimmer 
Holdings Inc ( ZMH.N ), Stryker Corp ( SYK.N ), Medtronic Inc 
( MDT.N ) and Biomet have been notified that U.S. securities 
regulators intend to investigate possible violations of the 
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. 

  Privately held Biomet said late on Thursday that it had 
been notified of the Securities and Exchange Commission probe. 
Zimmer, Stryker and Medtronic followed suit on Friday.  A Medtronic spokeswoman said the company has received a 
letter from the SEC regarding an inquiry and will comply with 
the request, but added that "we do not believe we have 
committed any violations of the (Foreign Corrupt Practices 
Act)."  Johnson & Johnson's ( JNJ.N ) orthopedic business, DePuy, has 
not receive a notice, a company spokeswoman said.  Zimmer shares were down $1.93, or 2.3 percent, to $82.67 in 
afternoon trade on the New York Stock Exchange, while shares of 
Stryker were up 77 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $73.90. Shares of 
the other orthopedic device companies were narrowly mixed.  J.P. Morgan analyst Michael Weinstein said he did not view 
the SEC investigation as a major problem for the companies.  Michael Matson, an analyst at Wachovia, said the SEC probe 
might be an extension of a government investigation of 
consulting arrangements between orthopedic device makers and 
U.S. surgeons. Federal prosecutors alleged that the companies 
struck consulting deals with surgeons in a bid to sway 
decisions about which hip and knee implants patients received.  That government probe was settled last month, with Zimmer, 
Biomet, DePuy and Smith & Nephew Plc ( SN.L ) paying a total of 
$311 million. Stryker made no payment but entered a 
non-prosecution agreement with the government and cooperated 
with prosecutors.  "We suspect this may be related to surgeon consulting 
arrangements," Matson wrote in a research note. "We suspect 
that Zimmer and possibly other orthopedic firms may have abused 
consulting arrangements internationally just as they did in the  U.S."  "We expect this to take time to play out," he added. "The 
(Department of Justice) investigation took over 2-1/2 years to 
be resolved, and we expect this to be similar ... We believe 
this unfortunately represents a new overhang for Zimmer."  Biomet is owned by Blackstone Group LP ( BX.N ), Goldman 
Sachs Group Inc's ( GS.N ) private equity arm, Kohlberg Kravis 
Roberts & Co KKR.UL, and TPG Capital TPG.UL.  (Reporting by  Debra Sherman )