-- `American Idol' Owner CKX Ends Talks to Sell Company
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-10-27T21:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/-american-idol-owner-ckx-ends-talks-with-suitors-will-stay-independent.html
CKX Inc. , owner of the “American
Idol” television show, said it ended discussions to sell the
company or a controlling stake, seven months after the talks
were first acknowledged.  The board said proposals received from a number of parties
weren’t in the best interest of shareholders, New York-based CKX
said today in a statement, without identifying the bidders.  CKX said in late March that it was in discussions about a
possible sale.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s One Equity Partners
private-equity arm was near an agreement to take the company
private, a person with knowledge of the talks said at that time.
Bids later emerged from CKX founder Robert F.X. Sillerman, who
stepped down as  chief executive  in May to pursue a controlling
stake, and from a separate investor group led by  Simon Fuller ,
the creator of the “Idol” series.  Investors had been pursuing CKX as its No. 1 U.S. TV show
franchise began to falter with a 9 percent ratings drop last
season. “Idol,” which airs on News Corp.’s Fox broadcast
network, is undergoing a makeover ahead of the 10th season with
new judges  Jennifer Lopez  and  Steven Tyler  and the return of
executive producer  Nigel Lythgoe .  This marks the second set of failed sale talks in the last
three years. Fuller and Sillerman tried to take the company
private together in 2007, dropping the $12-a-share bid in 2008.  As recently as August, Sillerman said he was preparing a
cash offer of $5.50 to $5.75 a share for a majority stake in
CKX. The proposal called for Sillerman, CKX’s biggest investor
with 21 percent of the stock, to return as executive chairman.  Fuller Bid  Since then the shares have  fallen  20 percent, giving CKX a
market  capitalization  of about $401 million, based on Bloomberg
data. CKX fell 6 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $4.31 today in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading before the termination of the sale
discussions was announced.  CKX received a $600 million bid from Fuller, a person
familiar with the offer said in May. It valued the company at
about $6.45 a share.  CKX owns two-thirds of the “Idol” brand and co-produces
the show in the U.S. with Fremantle Media, owner of the other
third, according to the company’s annual report. CKX’s 19
Entertainment has a global television and production agreement
with Fremantle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  