-- `Every Man for Himself' as Emerging Markets Curb Currencies
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-10-27T15:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/-every-man-for-himself-as-emerging-markets-curb-currency-gains-after-g-20.html
Finance chiefs from South Korea to
South Africa signaled they may act to slow gains in their
currencies, just four days after the Group of 20 vowed to soothe
trade tensions in the $4 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market.  Asian currencies fell to a one-week low after Bank of Korea
Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said today that measures to mitigate
capital flows could be “useful.” Hours later, the rand dropped
as South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said his
government will use part of higher-than-expected tax revenue to
build foreign reserves as it attempts to weaken the currency.  The shifts suggest G-20 members will keep trying to defend
their economies from the slide of the dollar and capital inflows
even after the group promised Oct. 23 to refrain from
“competitive devaluation” and to increasingly embrace market-
determined currencies.  “The G-20 made a vague pledge not to manipulate currencies
much, but there was no mechanism to ensure that each country
will not keep taking unilateral measures,” said  Win Thin ,
global head of emerging markets strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York. “It’s every man for himself.”  China’s yuan declined by the most in 22 months after the
central bank set the weakest reference rate for the currency
since September. Bank Indonesia will “guard” the rupiah at its
“fundamental” level of 8,900 to 9,300 against the dollar and
buy foreign currencies to limit volatility, Governor  Darmin Nasution  said today. Bank Negara Malaysia Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz  told Bloomberg Television yesterday she favors a gradual
strengthening of the ringgit.  No ‘Teeth’  “Although what came out of the G-20 meeting was better
than expected, it didn’t really have any teeth in it,” said
 Kieran Curtis , a fund manager who helps oversee about $2 billion
in emerging market debt at Aviva Investors in London. “There
was still no framework laid out to deal with countries following
an ultra-competitive exchange-rate policy.”  The concern of emerging market officials is that failure to
counter gains in their currencies will mean exports are choked,
removing a source of economic strength. Their exchange rates
have risen as investors bet the Federal Reserve will next week
introduce more so-called quantitative easing, a policy move
which has hurt the dollar.  More currency measures may be on the way. President  Juan Manuel Santos  has said Colombia may take additional steps this
week to ease the peso’s rally and Chilean President  Sebastian Pinera  said Oct. 25 that his government plans to increase
foreign investment limits for institutions.  ‘Keeping an Eye’  Having already removed a 15 percent tax exemption for
foreigners on income from domestic bonds, Thailand Finance
Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  warned on Oct. 25 that regulators are
“keeping an eye” on speculative inflows.  While he didn’t advocate action by European governments,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs the
group of euro-area finance ministers, also said today the dollar
is “undervalued” against the euro.  “Europe is the victim” of global currency policies,
Juncker said at a conference in Frankfurt.  The tensions over currencies may make it harder for G-20
leaders to prove their words carry weight when they convene in
Seoul on Nov. 11-12, said  Beat Siegenthaler , a currency
strategist in Zurich at UBS AG, the world’s second biggest
foreign-exchange trader.  “The agreements reached so far don’t mean much in
practice,” he said. “From the point of view of these
countries, as long as the big countries are undertaking QE
measures and looking out for themselves they don’t feel any
obligation not to act too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  