-- `Hobbit' to Be Filmed in New Zealand As Warner, Key Strike Deal
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-10-27T07:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/-hobbit-to-be-filmed-in-new-zealand-after-warner-premier-key-strike-deal.html
New Zealand has reached agreement
with Warner Bros. Productions Ltd. to keep the filming of two
movies based on “The Hobbit” in the country, Prime Minister
 John Key  said today.  The filming of the movies, based on the book by J.R.R.
Tolkien and to be directed by  Peter Jackson , will promote New
Zealand on the world stage, Key said.  The announcement brings to an end two days of negotiations
between New Zealand’s government and Warner Bros executives
after the studio threatened to move the production elsewhere in
the wake of an actors’ union dispute. Key, who holds the dual
post of prime minister and tourism minister, took personal
control of the talks on behalf of the New Zealand  government .  “I am delighted we have achieved this result,” Key told
reporters in Wellington. “Making the two Hobbit movies here
will not only safeguard work for thousands of New Zealanders,
but it will also follow the success of the Lord Of The Rings
trilogy in once again promoting New Zealand on the world
stage.”  New Zealand’s government wants the two-film prequel to the
“Lord of the Rings” trilogy made in the country to help boost
a sluggish  economic  recovery. Hiring crew and equipment for the
original series added about NZ$350 million ($261 million) to the
economy in a three-year period to March 2002, and boosted
tourism as fans flocked to locations where Frodo battled Orcs in
a recreation of Tolkien’s Middle Earth.  Bright Spot  The government agreed to pay Warner extra rebates of as
much as $7.5 million per picture, subject to their success, to
improve New Zealand’s competitiveness as a film location, Key
said. The government will also contribute $10 million toward
marketing costs of the films, Key said.  New Zealand and Warner plan to form a “long-term strategic
partnership” to promote the country as a film and tourist
destination, Key said.  The government will also introduce new employment laws on
Oct. 28 to clarify the difference between contractors and
employees in the film industry following the actors’ proposed
industrial action, he said.  New Zealand’s film industry was worth NZ$2.8 billion in
2009, according to a  Statistics New Zealand  report. That doesn’t
count the boost to tourism, which overtook the dairy industry as
New Zealand’s biggest export in the year to March 31, according
to a report today.  Tourism Spending  “The prospect of ‘The Hobbit’ being filmed in New Zealand
has been a bright spot in the outlook for the tourism industry
through the economic downturn,” said Anne-Marie Johnson,
communications manager at the  Tourism Industry Association  in an
e-mailed statement on Oct. 21. “Unless travelers are aware of
New Zealand, we are never likely to get onto their shopping list
of potential destinations.”  Tourism spending, investment and employment makes up 8.7
percent of New Zealand’s economy. Growth unexpectedly weakened
in the second quarter as consumer spending and housing demand
slowed, according to government figures last month.  The deal brings to an end the latest in a series of
troubles for the production after Guillermo del Toro quit as
director in May and a Wellington studio where parts of the film
were to be shot caught fire earlier this month. The fallout from
the actors’ dispute sent thousands of New Zealanders’ to the
streets to protest about the film’s potential re-location.  Locations Reviewed  Warner Bros reviewed the location after a workers’ boycott
of the movie was proposed by  New Zealand Actors’ Equity , backed
by Australia-based Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance. The
union actions caused “substantial damage and disruption,” the
company said in a statement on Oct. 22.  Actors’ Equity recommended people delay accepting work on
the films until producers offer union contracts. That prompted
Wellington-based Jackson, who directed the three “Lord of the
Rings” films, to blame the unions’ actions for putting the New
Zealand film industry at risk.  “Seemingly overnight, NZ Actors Equity shredded the
reputation of a burgeoning industry, which has been over forty
years in the making”, Jackson said in a statement on Oct. 21.  The industrial unrest “has been damaging for New Zealand’s
reputation as a shooting location and created a lot of
uncertainty,” the  Screen Production and Development Association 
said in a statement on Oct. 21.  The association has reached an interim agreement with
Actors’ Equity that films beginning pre-production before March
would use existing employment arrangements, and that the union
would lift the boycott, it said.  Middle Earth Tours  The Rings trilogy, based on Tolkien’s fantasy epic,
generated $2.9 billion in worldwide box-office receipts and
another $3 billion from DVDs, merchandise and other sources.  The award-winning films inspired New Zealand businesses to
provide tours to locations where Frodo battled Orcs in a
recreation of Tolkien’s Middle Earth. Tours are still operating
in more than thirty locations in New Zealand, according to
 www.tourism.net.nz , where fans pay to see Jackson’s vision of
the Road to Mordor, Misty Mountains and Ford of Bruinen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  