-- `New Bad Boy' JetBlue Adds Seats in Test of Airlines' Resolve
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/-new-bad-boy-jetblue-adds-seats-in-test-of-airlines-resolve.html
JetBlue Airways Corp ., Alaska Air
Group Inc. and  AirTran Holdings Inc . are testing the industry’s
resolve to curb available seats as they add new jets and fly
planes more often.  After  U.S. carriers  returned to profits this year by
limiting seats, investors need to see whether airlines’
expansion this quarter and in 2011 will imperil the recovery,
seven analysts said in reports and interviews. When the supply
of seats exceeds demand, carriers cut fares to fill them.  The two largest U.S. carriers,  United Continental Holdings
Inc.  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. , plan to hold their 2011 seating
increases to 3 percent or less. JetBlue, less than a fifth the
size of those rivals, plans to take nine new jets next year
after boosting capacity about 10 percent this quarter.  “JetBlue is kind of the new bad boy,”  Ray Neidl , an
analyst at Maxim Group LLC in New York, said in an interview.
“They want to grab market share and, hopefully, it doesn’t
become infectious to the rest of the industry.”  Maintaining capacity cuts put in place since 2008 as demand
rises has helped carriers produce back-to-back quarterly profits
for the first time in three years. A fourth-quarter profit would
be the first in a decade, said  Michael Derchin , a CRT Capital
Group LLC analyst based in Stamford, Connecticut.  Airlines measure capacity by multiplying the number of
seats on their planes by the distance flown. New York-based
JetBlue, which hasn’t detailed how much its available seating
will grow in 2011, is adding the new jets to a fleet that it
said will total 161 Airbus SAS and Embraer aircraft by the end
of 2010.  Alaska has said its gain will be as much as 9 percent, and
AirTran may expand by 4 percent as it prepares to be acquired by
 Southwest Airlines Co.   ‘Bear Watching’  “While each plan is well-thought-out and makes strategic
sense for each carrier, we feel these moves bear watching,
including competitive responses getting out of hand,” Derchin
said in an Oct. 22 note to investors. He advises buying  JetBlue 
and holding AirTran and Seattle-based Alaska.  Flights in Boston and the Caribbean will be a focus for
JetBlue again in 2011, Chief Financial Officer  Edward Barnes 
told analysts on an Oct. 21 conference call. “We are not seeing
any evidence of a slowdown in demand,” he said.  JetBlue, Alaska and Orlando, Florida-based AirTran fly
chiefly in the U.S. and together generate about as much annual
traffic as the domestic operations of  AMR Corp. ’s American
Airlines, the third-largest U.S. carrier.  United Continental, Atlanta-based Delta and American
probably will show restraint and abide by their forecasts for
adding seats next year, said  Jeff Straebler , a fixed-income
strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut.  ‘Forced’ Discipline  “In the past the response would have been, ‘We’re making
money. Get the planes in the air,’” Straebler said in an
interview. “This time, discipline has been forced on them by
their weak balance sheets, and they now know it works.”  Ending losses has helped buoy shares, with the  Bloomberg
U.S. Airlines Index  surging 30 percent this year before today to
the highest level since March 2008.  US Airways Group Inc.  and
United Continental, the new parent of United and Continental
airlines after their Oct. 1 merger, have more than doubled.  The seat-growth plans “are prompting shareholders to
question whether the revenue recovery now under way is
sustainable,”  Dan McKenzie , a Hudson Securities analyst in
Chicago, said in an Oct. 25 note. “Investors are right to
worry, but capacity concerns rank as a backburner worry for
us.”  Airlines began paring seats after  jet fuel  reached a record
$4.36 a gallon in 2008 and the recession damped business travel.
Planes were parked or returned to leasing companies and some
orders were deferred. Now, as travel revives, there is more
incentive to add seats, said  Jay Sorensen , president of aviation
consultant Ideaworks in Shorewood, Wisconsin.  ‘Invitation for Others’  “The best predictor of future behavior is past behavior,”
he said in an interview. “When someone starts growing, it’s
almost an invitation for others to follow the same path.”  Southwest  plans to increase capacity 8 percent in 2011’s
first quarter and 5 percent in the second by flying planes more
frequently, taking advantage of demand outpacing its forecast,
Chief Executive Officer  Gary Kelly  said on Oct. 21. Dallas-based
Southwest, which has grown as much as 10 percent annually in the
past, hasn’t given a capacity outlook for next year.  AirTran will add six new planes next year, CEO  Bob Fornaro 
said in an Oct. 22 interview. Alaska’s capacity additions will
meet demand and be profitable, and won’t damage industry efforts
to keep seat growth in check, President  Brad Tilden  said.  Overseas Flights  The largest carriers primarily are adding back capacity in
international markets, where demand remains strong, fares are up
and competition isn’t as intense, said  Matthew Jacob , a Majestic
Research LLC analyst in New York.  United Continental, based in Chicago, said it will increase
capacity as much as 2 percent in 2011, while Delta projected
expanding as much as 3 percent. Fort Worth, Texas-based American
said it will raise capacity 3.5 percent.  Overseas flights will drive the 2 percent capacity growth
at Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways, the carrier said last week.  The risk for investors may be that airlines have “tapped
out” in their hunt for revenue by filling their available seats
and raising fares, spurring them to expand again, Jacob said in
an interview.  “We may see a return to more aggressive capacity
additions,” Jacob said. “That’s when the airline industry has
traditionally gotten into trouble.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  