-- Terra, ‘Pit Bull’ Lawyer, Foreclosures in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-27T10:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/-pit-bull-lawyer-bank-of-america-hawk-fed-in-court-news.html
David Wormsley, the  Citigroup Inc. 
banker accused by Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd. founder Guy
Hands of misleading him about an auction of  EMI Group Ltd. , said
he was the victim of a lie told by Hands the weekend before the
bidding in May 2007.  Wormsley, testifying yesterday in a federal court trial in
Manhattan, told jurors that he got a phone call from someone on
EMI’s deal team on Friday, May 18, 2007, before the May 21 bid
deadline. In the phone call, the executive told him that Hands
claimed Wormsley had said that the company’s board would approve
a price of 2.40 pounds ($3.80) a share for the company.  “It was completely and utterly unacceptable to suggest
that I had told him that 240 was acceptable or likely to be
recommended by the board of EMI,” Wormsley told the nine jurors
considering Terra Firma’s $8.3 billion suit against Citigroup.
“I was furious.”  Hands, who won the auction for EMI the following Monday
with a bid of 2.65 pounds a share, claims Wormsley falsely said
in three telephone calls over that weekend that Cerberus Capital
Management LP planned to submit a competing bid for the 113-
year-old music publishing and recording company based in London.  Cerberus had decided not to bid, leaving Terra Firma
without competition in the auction. Terra Firma claims that if
it had known the truth, it would have sought more information
about EMI’s business and finances and negotiated a better price.  Citigroup says Wormsley didn’t mislead Hands and claims the
suit is the result of disappointment over a money-losing deal.
In his testimony yesterday, Wormsley said he didn’t recall
details of his conversations with Hands leading up to the
bidding.  “I just remember speaking to him over the weekend on the
subject of finance,” Wormsley said.  The case is Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. v.
Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Warned Client Over Choices, Lawyer Says  Deutsche Bank AG , which is suing a former client for $1.8
million that he failed to pay back after incurring losses on
investments tied to Citigroup Inc. shares, had cautioned him
about the bets, the German bank’s lawyer told a Singapore court
yesterday.  Chang Tse Wen, a Taiwanese scientist who invented the
Xolair asthma drug, lost money because of his own investment
decisions, the lawyer Ang Cheng Hock said in presenting Deutsche
Bank’s claim for the amount outstanding on Chang’s account.  Chang, 62, is seeking $49 million from Deutsche Bank in a
countersuit, claiming he was induced to open his first private
banking account in August 2007, according to his lawyer
Muralidharan Pillai. The bank was negligent in its advice and
made fraudulent misrepresentations, Chang claimed.  The scientist “entrusted his first ever windfall of
monetary wealth” to the bank which had promised tailor-made
financial advice, Pillai said in the counterclaim. Chang
received $118 million in 2007 after Genentech Inc. acquired
Tanox Inc., the company he founded, for $919 million.  Kathryn Hanes, a Singapore-based spokeswoman for Deutsche
Bank, said the allegations made by Chang are without merit.  “The bank conducted itself properly throughout its
relationship with the customer and acted entirely in accordance
with its rights,” she said yesterday.  The case is Deutsche Bank AG v Chang Tse Wen S731/2009 in
the Singapore High Court.  Eurostar Says It Won’t Sign Train Deal Until End of Court Case  Eurostar Group Ltd. said it would postpone signing a
contract to buy a new fleet of trains from  Siemens AG  until the
end of a court case.  Alstom SA  is suing Eurostar at the High Court in London
seeking an order halting the deal until a full trial can take
place. Eurostar had planned to sign the contract last night, the
company’s lawyer Michael Bowsher said at the hearing yesterday.
He said the company won’t sign until the hearing ends. Justice
Geoffrey Vos, the judge hearing the case, said it will probably
conclude Oct. 28.  Alstom claims that its rights under European Union law were
violated by Eurostar’s bidding process, and that it would suffer
“serious and irreparable harm,” if Siemens is allowed to win
the bid, the company’s lawyer Sarah Hannaford told the court
yesterday.  Eurostar  said on Oct. 7 it would buy 10 trains in a contract
worth 600 million euros ($833 million) from Siemens to add
routes and fend off competition from Germany’s  Deutsche Bahn AG ,
which plans services via the tunnel under the English Channel
from 2013.  Eurostar officials referred Oct. 25 to an Oct. 20 statement
that described Alstom’s arguments as “without foundation.”  The case, Alstom Transport v. Eurostar International Ltd.,
is being heard at the High Court in London.  ArcelorMittal Should Lose Cartel Fine Appeal, Court Aide Says  ArcelorMittal , the world’s largest steelmaker, should lose
a challenge to an antitrust fine, an adviser to the European
Union’s highest court said.  The fine against three of the company’s units should be
upheld, Yves Bot, an advocate general at the EU’s  Court of
Justice  in Luxembourg, said in a non-binding opinion yesterday.
He rejected arguments by ArcelorMittal that too much time
elapsed between the time of the violation and the antitrust
fine. A ruling by the court in line with the advice would be a
victory for the  European Commission , the 27-nation EU’s
antitrust agency, which also filed an appeal.  ArcelorMittal is challenging the decision by the EU’s
antitrust regulator in 2006 to re-open a probe against it and
re-impose a 10 million-euro ($14 million) cartel fine levied on
the units.  Lynn Robbroeckx, a spokeswoman for ArcelorMittal declined
to immediately comment.  The commission decision concerned ArcelorMittal
International SA, formerly known as TradeArbed SA, ArcelorMittal
Luxembourg and ArcelorMittal Belval & Differdange SA, formerly
known as Arcelor Profil Luxembourg SA.  The cases are C-201/09 P, ArcelorMittal Luxembourg v.
Commission, C-216/09 P, Commission v. ArcelorMittal Luxembourg
SA and Others.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Fed’s ‘Pit Bull’ Takes on Bank of America in Buyback Battle  Kathy D. Patrick is a Houston lawyer who spends her Sundays
teaching children about God. The rest of the week, according to
one attorney who knows her, she can be “as frightening as a pit
bull on steroids.”  That’s bad news for issuers of mortgage-backed securities
like Bank of America Corp. Patrick represents bond investors
including the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  and  BlackRock
Inc.  who are seeking to force the bank to buy back bad home
loans, claiming the debt failed to match contractual promises
about its quality, Bloomberg’s Thom Weidlich, Laurel Brubaker
Calkins and Jody Shenn report.  Patrick’s law firm,  Gibbs & Bruns LLP , is a 30-lawyer
outfit that says it specializes in “bet the company”
litigation. This month, it reached a settlement with  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  and Bank of Montreal stemming from an alleged fraud
at a Canadian gold company. Earlier this year,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  and UBS AG settled with the firm over the sale of
$550 million in mortgage-backed securities. Patrick reached that
settlement on behalf of her clients just two months after filing
suit.  Patrick, 50, is “fearless and tenacious,” said Dan
Cogdell, a Houston criminal-defense lawyer who said she is
capable of pit bull-like aggressiveness “if the need be.” If
she succeeds in getting Bank of America to settle, it may
trigger more calls for buybacks in the $1.4 trillion market for
so-called non-agency mortgage securities, which lack government
backing.  Bank costs from repurchasing mortgages in such securities
may total as much as $179.2 billion, including expenses related
to suits against bond underwriters, Chris Gamaitoni, a Compass
Point Research and Trading LLC analyst, estimated in August.  In June 2009, Patrick got  Credit Suisse Group AG  and
Deutsche Bank AG to agree to pay $1.73 billion to end litigation
over their decision to back out of the leveraged buyout of
 Huntsman Corp.  Her firm is suing Zurich-based Credit Suisse as
bond underwriter for a now-defunct Ohio company that sold
securities based on health-care providers’ unpaid bills.  “She has a deep understanding of the banking process and
the constraints, motivations and incentives of the banking
industry,” said Harry M. Reasoner, a partner at  Vinson & Elkins
LLP  in Houston, who also represented Huntsman.  In the fight against Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank
of America, Patrick represents the biggest bond investors in the
U.S., including Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs
the world’s biggest bond fund.  For more, click here.  Blockbuster Counsel Weil Rejects Claim It Has Conflict  Blockbuster Inc. ’s bankruptcy counsel,  Weil Gotshal &
Manges LLP , said its work for film studios doesn’t create a
conflict of interest with its representation of the movie-rental
company, as an investor claims.  Lyme Regis Partners LLC, an investor in Blockbuster’s 9
percent senior notes, objected to Blockbuster’s hiring the law
firm, saying its relationships with movie studios mean it isn’t
“disinterested” as the law requires. That claim is unfounded,
the law firm said yesterday in a filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in New York.  “The fact that Lyme Regis, an obvious distressed-debt
trader, made a bad investment by purchasing not only unsecured
but contractually subordinated debt does not give it license to
submit frivolous pleadings,”  Weil Gotshal ’s lawyers wrote.  Lyme Regis objected to other motions in Dallas-based
Blockbuster’s Chapter 11 case, including its bid to finance
operations. It said the company structured its bankruptcy to
protect movie studios and game-providers to the detriment of
other creditors.  Scott McMillan, a lawyer for Lyme Regis, didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment.  Weil represents only one of nine studios that Blockbuster
may pay in its bankruptcy, Sony Pictures Home Entertainment. Its
work for Sony is “connected to antitrust and decree issues”
and doesn’t create a conflict, its lawyers wrote in court
filings.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  New Suits  Hawk Sued by Investor Over $413 Million Buyout Plan  Hawk Corp. , the maker of brakes, clutches and other
friction products that’s being bought by  Carlisle Cos. , was sued
by an investor who claims stockholders will be shortchanged in
the $413 million deal.  Hawk, based in Cleveland, said in an Oct. 15 statement it
would be acquired by Carlisle, a construction materials maker
with headquarters in Charlotte, North Carolina, for $50 a share
in cash.  “The proposed transaction comes at a time when the
company’s stock price is on a strong  upswing” and “insiders
are well aware of the company’s intrinsic value and that Hawk
shares are significantly undervalued,” shareholder Timothy B.
Hardy said in a Delaware Chancery Court lawsuit filed Oct. 25 in
Wilmington.  The companies said in the statement that the buyout will
expand Carlisle’s line of products and help it in emerging
markets including China, India and Brazil.  Hardy asks a judge to grant the lawsuit class-action, or
group, status on behalf of all outside stockholders; to halt the
transaction as it stands; and award damages and legal fees and
expenses.  Officials of Hawk and Carlisle didn’t immediately return
phone messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Timothy B. Hardy v. Hawk Corp., CA5925,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Fed Won’t Join Bank High Court Appeal on Crisis Loans  The Federal Reserve won’t join a group of the largest
commercial banks in asking the U.S. Supreme Court to let the
government withhold details of emergency loans made to financial
firms in 2008.  The central bank’s decision not to appeal makes it less
likely the high court will hear the case, said Tom Goldstein, a
Washington lawyer who has argued 22 cases before the high court
since 1999 and whose  Scotusblog  website tracks the panel.  The Clearing House Association LLC, a group of the biggest
commercial banks, filed the appeal yesterday. Under federal
rules for appeals, a lower court’s order requiring disclosure
remains on hold until the Supreme Court acts. Kit Wheatley, an
attorney for the Fed, confirmed that the central bank won’t join
the appeal. David Skidmore, a spokesman for the central bank,
did not immediately respond to requests for additional comment.  The bank group is appealing a federal judge’s August 2009
ruling requiring the Fed to disclose records of its emergency
lending. Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News,
sued for the release of the documents under the Freedom of
Information Act.  The central bank has never disclosed the identities of
borrowers since the creation in 1914 of its  Discount Window 
lending program, which provides short-term funding to financial
institutions, the Clearing House said in its petition.  “Disclosure of this information threatens to harm the
borrowing banks by allowing the public to observe their
borrowing patterns during the recent financial crisis and draw
inferences -- whether justified or not -- about their current
financial conditions,” the group said in its appeal.  The Fed’s emergency  programs , which were “essential
responses to the recent financial crisis,” would be harmed if
the central bank is forced to disclose lending records, the
group said in a statement yesterday. “Unless the ruling is
overturned by the U.S. Supreme Court, businesses and individuals
may decline to participate in these programs, possibly impairing
the federal government’s ability to act effectively in times of
crisis.”  “Greater transparency results in more accountability, and
the banks’ resistance continues to engender suspicion among
taxpayers about the bailouts,” said Matthew Winkler, Bloomberg
News editor-in-chief. “The banks’ move to appeal will deepen
the public’s skepticism and defend a position that every other
court has disagreed with. The public has the right to know.”  Under the Supreme Court’s normal procedures, the justices
may say as early as mid-December whether they will take up the
case. If so, they would hear arguments next year and likely rule
by July.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Glaxo Settles Defective-Drug Suit for $750 Million  GlaxoSmithKline Plc  agreed to pay $750 million to settle a
U.S. government false-claims lawsuit over the sale of defective
drugs.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, and the U.S. Justice
Department announced the accord yesterday, resolving a lawsuit
first filed in 2004 by Cheryl D. Eckard, a former global quality
assurance manager for the London-based company.  “This is not something I wanted to do, but because of
patient safety it was necessary,” Eckard, 51, told reporters
following a Justice Department press conference in Boston. As a
whistleblower, she will receive $96 million from the settlement
money.  Glaxo was accused in court papers of selling tainted drugs
under false pretenses. The medicines, made at a Glaxo plant in
Cidra, Puerto Rico, were misidentified as a result of product
mix-ups, according to papers filed in federal court in Boston.
The affected drugs included the antidepressant Paxil CR and the
diabetes treatment Avandamet.  The settlement includes a criminal fine and forfeiture
totaling $150 million and a $600 million civil settlement under
the False Claims Act and related state claims, the Justice
Department said in a statement.  “We will not tolerate corporate attempts to profit at the
expense of the ill and needy in our society -- or those who cut
corners that result in potentially dangerous consequences to
consumers,” Carmen M. Ortiz, the U.S. Attorney in Boston, said
at yesterday’s news conference.  SB Pharmco Puerto Rico Inc., a Glaxo unit, agreed to plead
guilty to charges relating to the manufacture and distribution
of adulterated drugs made at the now-shuttered plant, the
Justice Department said. Glaxo said in July it had agreed in
principle with the U.S. to pay 500 million pounds ($791 million)
to resolve the investigation.  “We regret that we operated the Cidra facility in a manner
that was inconsistent with current Good Manufacturing Practice
requirements and with GSK’s commitment to manufacturing
quality,” PD Villarreal, a Glaxo senior vice president, said in
an e-mailed statement.  The case is U.S. v. SmithKline Beecham Corp., 04-10375,
U.S. District Court for Massachusetts (Boston).  For more, click here.  Ex-PWS CEO Gets 21 Months in Insurance-Bribery Probe  Julian Messent, the former chief executive officer of PWS
International Ltd., was sentenced to 21 months in prison for
paying about $2 million in bribes to win reinsurance contracts
in Costa Rica.  Messent, 50, was also fined 100,000 pounds ($159,000) by
Judge Geoffrey Rivlin in London yesterday for funneling money to
at least three Costa Rican officials to retain contracts with
state-owned telecommunications, electricity and insurance
companies. Messent pleaded guilty last week to two counts of
corruption for making 41 payments from 1999 until 2002, some of
which went to bank accounts in Panama and Miami held by the
officials, while others went to their wives.  “You were deeply involved” in paying the bribes, Rivlin
said yesterday at Messent’s sentencing. “The corrupt sums which
you authorized represent a loss to the Republic of Costa Rica.”  By making the improper payments to keep the contracts,
Messent made a 265,000-pound profit, Rivlin said. Messent was a
director in charge of the firm’s Latin America group when the
payments were made and was later promoted to CEO post.  Messent’s lawyer, Eve Giles of Kingsley Napley LLP,
declined to immediately comment after the sentencing.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court News  Florida Foreclosure Cancellations Frustrate Miami Judge  The Miami judge managing a backlog of 80,000 foreclosures
expressed frustration that lenders including  Bank of America
Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  continue to cancel foreclosure
auctions.  Circuit Judge Jennifer Bailey in Miami-Dade County, which
has the most foreclosures in Florida, recently set up a system
to clear the logjam. She also chaired a state Supreme Court task
force last year set up to address the volume of foreclosures in
the state’s courts.  “It’s very frustrating to have put in this effort to
design, plan and implement this system and when we finally get
some forward momentum, we start slowing down again because of
the banks,” she said yesterday in an interview.  Bailey said banks are canceling foreclosure sales every
day. They canceled at least 20 yesterday in front of one judge,
saying they had to review the affidavits used to seize homes.  The cancellations came as Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America and Detroit-based  Ally Financial Inc. ’s GMAC
Mortgage unit said they were moving to complete pending
foreclosures. They had suspended foreclosure sales and judgments
after complaints that home seizures nationwide were based on
faulty documentation.  Attorneys general in all 50 states, as well as federal
agencies including the U.S. Justice Department, are
investigating.  GMAC said it’s reviewing foreclosure cases with potentially
defective affidavits in the 23 states that use judicial
proceedings for foreclosures, including Florida. If there are
problems, they will be fixed and the cases will proceed, said
Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for GMAC. Any case going to
foreclosure sale in non-judicial states will also be reviewed,
she said in an interview.  Bank of America, the  largest  U.S. bank by assets, has
completed a review of its foreclosure procedures and will
“shortly” begin resubmitting affidavits in judicial
foreclosure cases, spokesman Dan Frahm said Oct. 25 in a
statement.  On the Docket  Prosecutors Ask to Seal Ex-Goldman Programmer’s Trial  The trial of a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  computer
programmer should be held in part behind closed doors to protect
the securities firm’s trade secrets, prosecutors said.  The government will introduce evidence at the trial, which
is scheduled to start Nov. 29, to show that information Sergey
Aleynikov is accused of stealing were Goldman Sachs trade
secrets, prosecutors said in a filing Oct. 26 in federal court
in Manhattan. Aleynikov’s defense will try to show the
information wasn’t secret, prosecutors said.  Prosecutors asked U.S. District Judge Denise Cote to close
the courtroom to the public when this evidence is presented.
They also asked that trial exhibits “describing or containing”
 Goldman Sachs ’s trade secrets shouldn’t be made publicly
available, so that both sides can present their evidence without
compromising any of the firm’s proprietary information.  Aleynikov, who worked as a programmer at Goldman Sachs from
May 2007 through June of 2009, is accused of copying hundreds of
thousands of lines of computer source code related to the firm’s
high-frequency trading business on his last day of work.
Aleynikov told federal investigators that he intended only to
copy “open source” code not owned by Goldman Sachs, according
to the prosecutors’ court filing.  Aleynikov’s lawyer, Kevin Marino, declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 10-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 