-- Ackman's Group Exits Stuyvesant Town Investment With $45 Million Intact
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2010-10-27T16:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/ackman-s-group-exits-stuyvesant-town-investment-with-45-million-intact.html
A joint venture led by  Bill Ackman 
was able to do what the state of California, the Church of
England and Tishman Speyer Properties LP were not: get back its
investment in Manhattan’s Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village.  Ackman and  Winthrop Realty Trust  sold the junior debt they
jointly held on the 80-acre (32-hectare) apartment complex to
affiliates of CWCapital Asset Management LLC, which represents
senior lenders to the property, Boston-based Winthrop said in a
statement yesterday.  Senior lenders, who were poised to foreclose on the complex
on Oct. 29, wiping out Ackman’s claim to it, instead paid his
Pershing Square Capital Management LP and Winthrop the $45
million the venture invested in August. Ackman’s group was
attempting to wrest control of the property with its stake.  “He’s like the  Carl Icahn  of the real estate world -- you
pay him to go away,”  Joshua Stein , principal of New York-based
commercial real estate firm Joshua Stein PLLC, said of Ackman.
“He can create value by merely not being there, by merely going
off into the sunset.”  The agreement resolves outstanding litigation with Winthrop
and Pershing Square, CWCapital said in a statement yesterday.
The company, which now effectively controls the property,
canceled the Oct. 29 foreclosure auction to focus on “ensuring
a stable transition.” The complex is home to about 25,000
tenants.  ‘Complete Flexibility’  “This gives CW complete flexibility with respect to what
it does with the property,”  Greg Cross , an attorney for
CWCapital, said in a telephone interview. “It gives the trust
complete control protective from any constituency that might
want to meddle in the disposition of the property.”  A state court last month thwarted Ackman and Winthrop in
their attempt to take control of the complex in a so-called
mezzanine foreclosure. They had been planning an appeal that
would probably have not been heard for months, Ackman said at
the time.  CWCapital probably made the deal with Ackman and Winthrop
to prevent a future legal threat, said Stein, who isn’t involved
in the case. He compared the settlement to the “greenmail”
that companies paid billionaire Icahn in the 1980s so he would
sell shares and walk away from his takeover attempts.  “It eliminates whatever wrench Ackman would have been able
to throw into the works,” he said. “It might have been a
wrench made of plastic and held together with duct tape, but it
was a wrench. There was some chance that somehow, some way, he
would have been able to persuade a court that he had a claim.”  Ackman ‘Outgunned’  Ackman said in an interview yesterday that his venture was
“outgunned” by CW’s legal team in court. He said he believed
his interpretation of the loan documents was correct and that
his venture was legally entitled to conduct a mezzanine
foreclosure.  “We came to a resolution that was very smart for CW and
contributes to the long-term stability of the property,” Ackman
said. The settlement did not include payment of his venture’s
legal fees, the sum of which Ackman wouldn’t disclose.  While Ackman and Winthrop sold their stake, the venture
still may seek to lead a co-op conversion of the property and
submit a plan for CW to consider, he said.  “We understand the asset, we know all the people, we spent
a lot of time with the tenants’ association,” he said. “We may
choose to put a plan in going forward.”  Attorney Hired  For now, New York-based Rose Associates Inc. is managing
the apartments after being appointed by CWCapital on Oct. 22.
CWCapital also hired a lawyer with expertise in New York co-op
conversions, Cross said today.  “Eliminating uncertainty in this transaction, and moving
us toward a clear and clean resolution, is good for the tenants
-- so the settlement of this legal dispute is a welcome step,”
New York City Councilman  Daniel Garodnick , a resident of Peter
Cooper Village, said in a statement today. “We are pleased that
CW Capital can now move forward with the tenants on this
restructuring.”  Cross, CW’s lawyer, said senior lenders are weighing
options that range from a co-op conversion of the property to an
outright sale, which may mean the East Side community between
14th and 23rd streets stays a rental property.  An investment group led by veteran New York co-op converter
 Gerald Guterman  intends to follow up on the plan it submitted to
CW last month. Under the proposal, apartments would be sold for
less than comparable units in the area. A conversion, with
tenant buy-in, is the only way to pay senior debt and keep the
complex affordable, said  Daniel Alpert , managing partner at
Westwood Capital LLC, part of the Guterman group.  Maximize Recovery  “As a rental, the project is worth somewhere between $1.8
billion and $2 billion on a good day,” Alpert said. “That is
clearly not the way to maximize recovery for the mortgagees.”  Ownership of Stuyvesant Town has been in question since
January, when a venture led by affiliates of developer Tishman
Speyer and BlackRock Inc. defaulted on its $3 billion mortgage
and ceded control of the property to lenders.  Tishman Speyer and BlackRock each invested $112.5 million
out of total equity financing of $1.9 billion. They took out a
$3 billion mortgage from Wachovia Bank and $1.4 billion of
mezzanine debt. The mortgage was packaged with other commercial-
property loans and sold as securities.  Other investors include the  Government of Singapore
Investment Corp. , manager of more than $100 billion of the city-
state’s foreign reserves; the Florida State Board of
Administration; the California Public Employees’ Retirement
System; and the Church of England.  Church of England  Calpers wrote off a $500 million stake in Stuyvesant Town
and fired BlackRock as the manager of its $1 billion apartment
portfolio. The Church of England wrote down an investment of
about 40 million pounds ($65 million) in the property, the
Guardian reported in January, citing church commissioners.
Florida and BlackRock have written down their stakes to zero,
spokesmen for both entities said in January.  Yesterday’s settlement gives investors in the senior
mortgage more options for recouping the $3.7 billion they’re
owed, Cross said. Avoiding a foreclosure keeps the original loan
intact, precludes the immediate payment of property-transfer
taxes, and gives senior lenders the agility to restructure the
mortgage for a future buyer or co-op converter, he said.  “There’s a lot of accretive value by being able to
preserve that optionality,” Cross said.  The agreement also was a “big win” for the Pershing Square
and Winthrop partnership,  Harris Trifon , a Deutsche Bank AG
analyst in New York, wrote in a research note this morning. The
venture received “effectively a free” opportunity “for a
chance to control one of the most desirable commercial real
estate properties in the country,” he said.  The case is Bank of America NA v. PSW NYC LLC, 10-651293,
New York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  