-- Macquarie Urged to Reverse Workforce in No-Show Recovery
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2010-10-27T13:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/macquarie-urged-to-reverse-staff-expansion-in-no-show-recovery.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. , the Australian
investment bank that increased staff by 46 percent since March
2007, faces calls to shrink its workforce as a slump in trading
and fees from arranging mergers erodes profit.  Chief Executive Officer  Nicholas Moore , 52, added employees
even as banks worldwide slashed 330,000 jobs during the credit
crisis as he bought European and U.S. assets to position for a
recovery. Macquarie, Australia’s largest investment bank, last
month said markets are “weak” and predicted first-half profit
would drop 25 percent.  “They went out and hired a lot of people in preparation
for the recovery, and the recovery hasn’t been what they
thought,” said  Matthew Kidman , who oversees about $400 million
at Wilson Asset Management in Sydney. “This year and next year
are hard years for them.”  Net income  in the six months to Sept. 30 fell 24 percent to
A$366 million ($364 million), according to the median estimate
of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That would be the
smallest fiscal first-half profit since 2004. Sydney-based
Macquarie will report earnings on Oct. 29.  Macquarie  shares have tumbled 29 percent this year, the
third-worst performance on the 38-member  S&P/ASX 200 finance
index . Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG has slipped 21
percent and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has fallen 6.3 percent in
New York.  Paula Hannaford , a Sydney-based spokeswoman for Macquarie,
declined to comment on the bank’s results or staffing. The
Financial Times yesterday said Macquarie cut 60 jobs at its
infrastructure investing unit.  Trading Slump  Goldman Sachs, Citigroup Inc. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan
Stanley and Bank of America Corp. posted an average 24 percent
drop in third-quarter trading revenue, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse  said Oct. 21 that third-quarter profit
slumped 74 percent. UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, this
week reported a surprise loss at its investment bank as trading
fell. CEO  Oswald Gruebel  in part blamed “very low levels of
client activity” for the division’s shortfall.  Macquarie expanded its workforce by 15 percent last fiscal
year to 14,657 as of March 31 after it bought Philadelphia-based
Delaware Investments from Lincoln Financial Group for $428
million and CI Financial Corp.’s Blackmont Capital unit, which
included 13 offices and 450 employees. The firm cut almost 1,200
jobs between September 2008 and March 2009, company reports show.  Trailing Goldman  Wes Nason , an analyst at Citigroup in Melbourne, said in an
interview last month that Macquarie should cut jobs to weather a
slowdown in deals, declining to say how many workers ought to go.
JPMorgan analysts  Scott Manning  and  James Nicholias  said in an
Oct. 15 note that they’ll be assessing staff costs in judging
whether Macquarie can post a second-half earnings rebound.  Revenue per Macquarie employee  has fallen for five straight
six-month periods to A$351,027 in the half-year through March,
from A$604,283 in the six months to September 2007, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Macquarie workers bring in less than half the $1.15 million
average annual revenue generated by staff at global rivals
including Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank AG, UBS
analyst  Jonathan Mott  estimated in a Sept. 6 report.  “Macquarie is behind most of the big guys,” said Zia
Rahman, who helps manage A$700 million including Macquarie
shares at Equity Trustees in Melbourne. “They’ll have to cut
people.”  Asia Rankings  In the latest fiscal year, Macquarie’s fixed-income,
currencies and commodities division, known as FICC, accounted
for 79 percent of profit. The investment bank and the securities
division were the second- and third-biggest earners. FICC
workers generated three times more profit per person than
investment-banking employees, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Macquarie gets about half of operating income from
Australia, where its ranking among takeover advisers is the
lowest since 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The firm is 15th among arrangers of takeovers in Australia
this year, a list led by Goldman Sachs & Partners Australia Pty
and Bank of America Corp., according to Bloomberg data. The bank
-- which wasn’t among advisers on this week’s $8.3 billion offer
by Singapore Exchange Ltd. to buy Australia’s main stock
exchange -- hasn’t finished a year outside the top 10 since 1999.  Among equity underwriters in the Asia-Pacific region,
Macquarie is 11th this year, down from 10th in 2009, Bloomberg
data show. The bank is No. 2 in Australia. Stock underwriting
fees in Asia-Pacific totaled about $3.9 billion in the first
nine months of 2010, unchanged from the year-earlier period,
according to Bloomberg data.  Last month, Macquarie said earnings for the 12 months
through March 2011 will fall from the year-earlier period unless
trading and deal-making return to “more normal levels” in the
second half.  “Macquarie will find it hard to get definite revenue
prospects out of their current business mix,” said  Peter Vann ,
who helps manage about A$800 million at Constellation Capital
Management Ltd. in Sydney. “They’ve really got to work out
their strategy and what their big picture is and make sure the
market understands it.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net 
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  