-- Macquarie Group Signs Cooperation Accord With Vietnam's VinaSecurities
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-27T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/macquarie-group-signs-cooperation-accord-with-vietnam-s-vinasecurities.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. , Australia’s
biggest investment bank, and VinaSecurities, a unit of Vietnam’s
largest fund manager, signed a deal to share research, trade
shares and work on acquisitions in the Southeast Asian nation.  The alliance allows Sydney-based Macquarie’s clients to
receive equity research on Vietnamese companies and to trade
stocks in the Southeast Asian nation, and includes agreements to
cooperate on merger and acquisition transactions and other
corporate finance work, according to a joint statement.  Vietnam is a largely “untapped” market, Macquarie said in
today’s statement. The  Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange  opened in
2000, and VinaCapital Group, the parent of VinaSecurities, said
last week that many of the state-owned companies in which the
Vietnamese government plans to sell shares are “crown jewels,”
such as telecommunications companies and Vietnam Airlines Corp.  The agreement gives Macquarie clients access to “local
market knowledge,”  Kalpana Desai , head of Asia for Macquarie
Capital Advisers, said in a statement. “Vietnamese corporates
will be able to leverage Macquarie’s deep expertise in
international markets.”  Ho Chi Minh City-based VinaCapital Group, which oversees
about $1.8 billion, manages funds including the U.K.-listed
 Vietnam Opportunity Fund Ltd.   Vietnamese stocks are “trading at a 2010 price-to-earnings
multiple of under 10 times, a discount to the region, which is
drawing interest from overseas investors,” VinaSecurities and
Macquarie said.  The $93 billion Vietnamese economy has averaged growth
exceeding 7 percent over the past decade, and the government
hopes the pace of expansion may accelerate next year to as much
as 7.5 percent.  -- Jason Folkmanis  in Ho Chi Minh City. Editors: Malcolm Scott,
 James Gunsalus .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser in Hong Kong at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  