-- Insane Fed Should Beware Unquantifiable Outcomes: Mark Gilbert
-- B y   M a r k   G i l b e r t
-- 2010-10-27T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/mad-fed-should-beware-unquantifiable-outcomes-commentary-by-mark-gilbert.html
  Albert Einstein  defined insanity as
doing the same thing repeatedly and expecting different
outcomes. The crazy gang at the  Federal Reserve  should heed
those words when debating how much more market manipulation to
inflict on the world of fixed income.  The worrisome thing about so-called quantitative easing --
a concept still novel enough to mean whatever the Humpty-Dumptys
in central banking want it to -- is that its consequences remain
unquantifiable, and the perceived need for more central-bank
purchases of securities should make investors uneasy.  Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said in an Oct. 15 speech that
it’s difficult to work out the “appropriate quantity and pace
of purchases and to communicate this policy response to the
public.” He also said that “nonconventional policies have
costs and limitations that must be taken into account in judging
whether and how aggressively they should be used.”  Imagine a surgeon telling her patient she wasn’t sure what
size scalpel she’d be using or what the likely outcome of the
procedure might be. Or an architect admitting to a planning
committee that he wasn’t confident about his stress calculations
or the durability of the newfangled materials he was using.  “Nobody understands QE,” says  Fred Goodwin , a strategist
at Nomura International in  London . “We have no idea how
inflationary it really is. A patient juiced up on QE wants to
party and it does not matter what anyone says. Don’t worry about
what central banks are worried about; worry about unintended
consequences.”  ‘Dangerous Gamble’  Fed skeptic  Thomas Hoenig  of the U.S. central bank’s Kansas
City branch called it “a very dangerous gamble” in a speech
this week. “We risk the next crisis four or five years from
now.”  Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive officer at Pacific
Investment Management Co., said the bond-buying program “will
have costs and unintended consequences.”  The Fed’s role as buyer of first resort has completely
distorted the government-bond market. An innocuous report in the
Wall Street Journal yesterday said the Fed would avoid the
“shock and awe” tactic used in the initial $2 trillion buying
spree and limit itself to “a few hundred billion dollars.”
This managed to drive the 10-year Treasury yield up by 10 basis
points to a five-week high of 2.7 percent.  Bernanke at the Fed,  Jean-Claude Trichet  at the  European
Central Bank  and  Mervyn King  at the Bank of England are more
powerful than any of their predecessors, given how much reliance
their political masters are placing on their stewardship of the
economy. Leaving the fortunes of the nation in the hands of
unelected central banks, though, strikes me as an abdication of
responsibility by government.  Buck Stops Where?  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  was asked
on Oct. 21 if he had a plan to fall back on if the government’s
attempts to reduce the  budget deficit  to 2 percent of economic
output by 2015, from more than 10 percent now, smothers the
economic recovery.  “There is, of course, the freedom for the Bank of England
to deploy monetary-policy tools,” was his complacent, the-buck-
stops-over-there-somewhere reply.  Central bankers tend to be academics, and academia’s
usefulness in solving real-world problems is limited at best;
Bernanke’s theoretical work, made famous in the November 2002
speech  “Deflation: Making Sure ‘It’ Doesn’t Happen Here”  that
led to him being dubbed “Helicopter Ben,” is butting heads
with harsh reality, and coming off second-best in the contest.  One-Trick Ponies  Former  Bank of England  policy maker and Bloomberg columnist  David Blanchflower  calls QE “the only show in town,” and it’s
possible that the outlook would look much worse if we hadn’t had
any bond purchases. While repeatedly rolling out the crash cart,
screaming “clear!” and slapping on the electric paddles didn’t
manage to stir the comatose patient, maybe death was averted.  A contrary suggestion might posit that central banks are
now one-trick ponies, stuck in a financial groundhog day with no
fresh ideas. Their willingness to sacrifice their principles not
only undermines their hard-won independence, it also allows
their political masters to avoid the hard work of structural
reform that might generate a genuine recovery. Instead, we are
relying on transfusions of artificial central-bank liquidity.  The guardians of the world economy still seem to think the
answer to too much debt is yet more debt. Imagine the response,
though, if you had asked any of the current crop of central
bankers five years ago about the inflationary consequences of
pumping trillions of dollars into the financial system.  Nomura’s Goodwin says there is no reason why the U.S.
inflation rate couldn’t surge to 6 percent by 2015 from its
current 1.1 percent pace. Lending to the U.S. government by
buying its 1.25 percent note repayable in September 2015 at its
current yield of about 1.3 percent might not be the smartest
trade a bond manager could make.  When the law of unintended consequences kicks in, the nasty
surprise is, almost by definition, unforeseen and unpredictable.
I struggle to see how this movie won’t end badly.    Mark Gilbert , author of “Complicit: How Greed and
Collusion Made the Credit Crisis Unstoppable,” is the London
bureau chief and a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mark Gilbert in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  