-- Thai Flood Death Toll Rises to 59; Bangkok Escapes Damage as Defenses Hold
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-10-27T09:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/thai-flood-death-toll-rises-to-59-bangkok-escapes-damage-as-defenses-hold.html
Thailand said the death toll from
weeks of flooding across 36 provinces rose to 59, as Bangkok
escaped major damage after bolstering the city’s defenses.  Floods have affected at least 3.2 million people and
damaged 3.5 million rai (1.4 million acres) of agricultural land,
the Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation said today.
Heavy rain may cause flash floods and landslides in 15 southern
provinces before the end of the month, the agency said.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , who called the floods the
worst in 50 years, pledged to give 5,000 baht ($167) to families
in the worst-hit areas as part of a 2.9 billion baht special
budget. The finance ministry today cut its forecast for economic
growth this year to 7.4 percent from 7.6 percent, and said the
disaster may cause as much as 20.2 billion baht of damage.  Floodwaters receded in 11 provinces, leaving 25 still
inundated, the disaster prevention department said. The death
toll since Oct. 10 rose to 59, according to the  Emergency
Medical Institution of Thailand .  Bangkok experienced only minor flooding along the Chao
Phraya river as the city’s 77-kilometer-long flood-protection
system held, the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration said.
Authorities are looking at ways to drain water away from the
capital before a period of high tides starts on Nov. 8.  United Nations Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon , who stopped
in Bangkok yesterday on a four-nation tour, expressed his “deep
profound sympathy” to the flood victims.  Cyclones, Monsoon Rains  “It is a stark reminder of the reality of climate
change,” Ban told reporters in Bangkok, adding that he
discussed with Abhisit ways the UN could work with Southeast
Asian nations to address global warming.  Cyclones and heavier-than-normal monsoon rains deluged
parts of Southeast Asia this month, killing hundreds of people
and affecting millions in key rice-producing regions. More than
84 people were killed in Myanmar when Tropical Cyclone Giri
lashed the country’s west coast at the weekend, the  Irrawaddy 
reported yesterday, citing local residents.  Indonesia’s capital Jakarta was paralyzed earlier this week
as heavy rain submerged streets and railways, leading to
gridlock on the city’s roads.  A longer-than-usual rainy season in Indonesia caused by the
La Nina weather phenomenon has led to flooding on Java, the most
populated island, and provinces such as Papua, where more than
100 people were killed this month in flash floods.  Rain has also hampered efforts to rescue survivors from a
tsunami that slammed into the Mentawai islands off Indonesia’s
Sumatra two days ago, following a 7.5-magnitude earthquake.  Rice Crop Damaged  In Thailand, the world’s biggest rice exporter, a
government agency warned that production from the country’s main
rice crop this year may fall 6.5 percent, squeezing supply and
driving prices higher.  Damage from flooding may cut gross domestic product by 1
percentage point in the fourth quarter and by 0.24 percentage
point for the full year, Kasikorn Research Center said in a
statement yesterday.  The floods may curb economic growth by as much as 0.2
percentage point this year, the Finance Ministry’s Fiscal Policy
Office said in a statement today. Economic ministers will meet
on Nov. 1 to discuss the effect of the disaster, Abhisit said.  The floods have become a risk factor for the economy, and
will be taken into account at the Bank of Thailand’s next
meeting on monetary policy, Bank of Thailand Deputy Governor
 Atchana Waiquamdee  told reporters in Bangkok today.  “We don’t know the impact yet,” Atchana said. “The crop
may be damaged, but the rising prices may partially help offset
the drop in farm income.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  