-- AIG Names Miller to Serve as Interim CEO If Needed
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2010-10-28T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/aig-designates-miller-to-serve-as-interim-ceo-if-benmosche-needs-to-leave.html
Steve Miller , who was promoted to
chairman of  American International Group Inc.  three months ago,
will be interim chief executive officer of the bailed-out
insurer if  Robert Benmosche  steps down while fighting cancer.  Miller will take the post “in the event that Bob would
become unwilling or unable to continue to effectively serve in
his current role,” the New York-based insurer said yesterday in
a statement. Miller, 68, would have the job “for as long as it
takes to identify and select a long-term replacement.”  Benmosche, 66, told staff this week that he had begun an
“aggressive round of chemotherapy” and that the company was
preparing for alternatives if he had to limit his work. AIG
announced a plan last month to regain independence and repay its
$182.3 billion U.S. rescue that hinges on selling stock to
private investors as early as the first quarter.  “They’re telling the world things will be under control no
matter what happens to their leadership,” said  Jeanne Branthover , a managing director at Boyden Global Executive
Search Ltd. in New York. AIG made a “credible choice that will
be viewed positively internally and externally.”  Miller replaced  Harvey Golub  as chairman of AIG in July
2010, after Benmosche threatened to leave the company unless
Golub resigned. Miller oversaw the bankruptcy of auto-parts
supplier Delphi Corp. and helped Chrysler Corp. return to
profitability after taking government loans in 1980. He has been
CEO at Waste Management Inc. and Bethlehem Steel Corp.  ‘Turnaround Kid’  He wrote an autobiography called “The  Turnaround Kid : What
I Learned Rescuing America’s Most Troubled Companies,” in April
2008. In the book, Miller looked back over a career that started
at Ford Motor Co. in 1968.  Under Benmosche, AIG is focusing on global  property-
casualty  coverage and U.S. life insurance and retirement
services after striking deals to sell non-U.S. life insurers and
consumer-finance operations to help repay the U.S.  AIG  surged  39 percent this year through yesterday in New
York trading after slipping 4.5 percent in 2009 and plunging 97
percent in 2008, the year housing-market related losses pushed
the firm to the brink of collapse.  Benmosche “continues to perform his job very well, and we
have no reason to expect otherwise going forward,” AIG’s board
said in a statement. The directors will continue their search
for a permanent replacement on the expectation Benmosche will
step down in 2012, as he indicated he would before telling staff
of his diagnosis.  Benmosche joined AIG in August 2009, becoming the insurer’s
fourth CEO since June of 2008. He was CEO of MetLife Inc. for
eight years, transforming that company into the largest publicly
traded U.S. life insurer from a mutual owned by customers.  AIG’s managers are seeking to attract private investors as
the U.S. winds down its stake in the company. The insurer said
in August that it may sell bonds for the first time since it was
rescued in 2008.  The insurer announced plans in September to repay its debt
on a Federal Reserve credit line and convert the Treasury
Department’s $49.1 billion preferred stake into common stock for
sale to private investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  