-- Air France Gains After Raising Full-Year Profit Forecast; Lufthansa Rises
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-10-27T08:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/air-france-gains-after-raising-full-year-profit-forecast-lufthansa-rises.html
Air France-KLM Group , Europe’s
largest carrier,  rose  the most in three weeks in Paris, leading
the region’s airline stocks higher, after raising its full-year
profit forecast.  Air France  jumped  as much as 55 cents, or 4.2 percent, to
13.67 euros and was up 3.1 percent at 10:20 a.m. in Paris,
making it the  biggest winner  in the eight-stock Bloomberg EMEA
Airlines Index. British Airways Plc added 0.9 percent in London.
Deutsche Lufthansa AG climbed 0.6 percent in Frankfurt.  The French carrier forecast after yesterday’s market close
an operating profit for the year ending March 2011 on resurgent
bookings, from an earlier prediction for breakeven. That’s even
after a volcanic eruption in Iceland grounded flights in April
and wiped away 158 million euros ($219 million) in earnings.  “A recovery has been underway all year,” said  Jonathan Wober , an analyst at Societe Generale in London who has “buy”
ratings on Air France and Lufthansa and “hold” on British
Airways. “The question is whether it continues and the strength
of it into next year.”  The  International Air Transport Association  tripled its
forecast this year for 2010 airline profit to $8.9 billion
globally as travel increases, the association said Sept. 21. The
eight biggest U.S. carriers, including United Airlines,
Continental Airlines and Southwest Airlines Co., last week
posted their highest profit in three years on rising fares.  Forward Bookings  Air France raised its target to reflect “the revenue
performance of recent months, together with the current level of
forward bookings,” the Paris-based carrier said in a statement
yesterday. The company had previously pledged to reach breakeven
before the deduction of the impact from April’s Icelandic
volcano eruption.  “It seems they’ve had a strong quarter and have good
visibility to the end of the year -- particularly in premium
bookings,” said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo Securities in
Paris. “We’re likely to see some upgrades from analysts.”  Air France , which is due to publish first-half results Nov.
17, described in July its previous goal for the year ending
March 31, 2011 as “prudent.”  Before yesterday’s improved forecast, analysts were
 projecting  an operating profit of 77.5 million euros in the
current fiscal year, according to the average of 14 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The consensus for Air France was already at a breakeven
number or slightly higher,’ Wober said. “If global GDP growth
continues to be at least as good as historic trend rates, you
should see airlines’ margins holding up or improving.”  Air France and other European carriers suffered from the
Eyjafjallajökull volcano’s eruption, which closed most of the
region’s airspace for six days in April, grounding 100,000
flights.  Lufthansa, Europe’s second-largest carrier, is scheduled to
report earnings tomorrow. British Airways Plc, the region’s No.
3, will release results a day later. Wober said the U.K.
airline’s year-on-year growth in yield, a measure of air fares,
for the July through September quarter should be “at least as
good as in the previous quarter or better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  