-- Malaysian Central Banker Zeti Doesn't Want to See `Sudden' Currency Moves
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-10-27T03:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/malaysian-central-banker-zeti-doesn-t-want-to-see-sudden-currency-moves.html
Malaysian central bank Governor Zeti
Akhtar Aziz said she doesn’t want to see sudden currency moves
and expressed concern that global policy makers may rely too
much on exchange-rate changes to deliver sustainable growth.  Officials at the Group of 20 meeting in South Korea on Oct.
23 pledged to refrain from “competitive devaluation” as they
sought to calm trade frictions. Record fund inflows are stoking
appreciation in emerging-market currencies, hurting exporters
and prompting countries including Brazil and Thailand to try and
control exchange rates. Bank Negara Malaysia should watch the
ringgit’s “underlying trend” and wants gradual moves, Zeti
said. Malaysia’s currency reached a 13-year high this month.  “There’s an over-focus on the exchange rate for adjustment
to take place,” Zeti, who helped oversaw the removal of
Malaysian currency controls in 2005, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview broadcast today. “If you want to unwind
global imbalances, it should comprise of adjustment in demand,
in prices and in the exchange rate. If we overly rely on any one
of these, it’s destabilizing for the global economy.”  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers in South Korea
vowed to avoid weakening currencies to lift exports and to let
markets set foreign-exchange values more. They met as China’s
restraint of its currency and the greenback’s recent decline
compel developing nations to temper gains in their own
currencies to remain competitive.  The ringgit weakened 0.3 percent to 3.1078 per dollar as of
10:50 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It has slipped 0.9 percent since touching a 13-year
high of 3.08 on Oct. 14.  No ‘Sudden Movements’  “The underlying trend for us has been an appreciating
currency,” Zeti said. “But, in order for the currency to
reflect the underlying fundamentals, this has to take place over
a period of time. We don’t want to see sudden movements. It has
to be a gradual adjustment.”  Brazil’s government this month tripled a tax foreign
investors must pay to buy local bonds in a bid to temper dollar
inflows. It also increased to 6 percent from 0.38 percent the
so-called IOF tax foreigners are charged to enter the
derivatives market. Thailand on Oct. 12 scrapped a 15 percent
tax exemption for foreigners on income from bond investments.  Malaysia’s currency has appreciated 10.3 percent this year,
the second-best performance in Asia excluding Japan, even as the
government reported that the nation’s  export growth  slowed every
month since March. The Thai baht gained 11.5 percent to also
trade near its strongest level since 1997.  ‘Significant Volatility’  “We have seen significant volatility in the region’s
currencies and this is disturbing because in the end the
foreign-exchange market is meant to facilitate trade and
investment activities,” Zeti said. “When we have such high
volatility of currencies, it is very destabilizing for
businesses.”  Zeti has headed Malaysia’s central bank since September
1998, when former premier Mahathir Mohamad ousted her
predecessor and implemented capital controls to stem a plunge in
the nation’s currency. The curbs were removed in July 2005.  Manufacturers in Malaysia and Thailand on Oct. 14 called on
policy makers to curb “speculative” capital inflows, saying
currency gains pose a threat to output, trade and jobs.  Record Fund Inflows  Investors plowed more than $100 billion this year into
equity and bond funds covering emerging markets funds, poised
for record annual inflows, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global.  The ringgit along with other Asian currencies may still
appreciate versus the dollar as the prospect of more credit-
easing measures from the U.S. Federal Reserve boosts demand for
higher-yielding assets in emerging markets.  The Fed may signal another round of bond purchases, known
as quantitative easing, at its Nov. 2-3 meeting,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . economist  Jan Hatzius  said in an e-mailed note on
Oct. 25.  “QE2 means there will be more funds available but the U.S.
market doesn’t offer sufficient returns and they will keep
coming into emerging markets,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a
currency strategist in Hong Kong at Credit Agricole CIB. “G-20
can’t do much to reverse the flows, they just talked about not
devaluing currencies, and nobody is doing that in emerging
Asia.”  Brazil’s government this month tripled a tax foreign
investors must pay to buy local bonds in a bid to temper dollar
inflows. It also increased to 6 percent from 0.38 percent the
so-called IOF tax foreigners are charged to enter the
derivatives market. Thailand on Oct. 12 scrapped a 15 percent
tax exemption for foreigners on income from bond investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  