-- Stanford Attorney Bennett Removed as Trial Lawyer
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-27T18:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/allen-stanford-found-indigent-by-judge-lead-defense-lawyer-to-be-replaced.html
R. Allen Stanford ’s attorney  Robert S. Bennett  was removed from his criminal-defense trial team by a
federal judge after the indicted financier was declared unable
to pay him or any private lawyer.  U.S. District Judge  David Hittner  in Houston, who will
preside over Stanford’s criminal trial, today relieved Bennett
of his trial duties.  “Mr. Stanford has filed an affidavit of indigency, so we
now have to appoint counsel at government expense,” Hittner
said.  He rejected three lawyers proffered by Stanford and
appointed two who will be paid $125 an hour by taxpayers.
Bennett charged Stanford as much as $1,000 an hour, according to
court records. He withdrew a request today to act as court-
appointed counsel at the public rate.  Stanford, 60, is accused of leading a $7 billion investment
fraud scheme centered on the sale of certificates of deposit by
his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd. He maintains
he is innocent.  The principal of the Houston-based Stanford Financial Group
Co. and related companies, the financier is also a defendant in
a civil suit filed in February 2009 by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Stanford’s assets were frozen by court order in that case,
and on Oct. 13 he lost a bid to access more than $100 million in
directors’ and officers’ insurance coverage procured by his
businesses.  No Contact  Hittner told Bennett he must remain on the defense team to
transfer trial materials. The lawyer and his staff are barred
from having any further contact with Stanford.  The judge turned down Stanford’s request to appoint three
lawyers including former federal prosecutor  Christopher Bebel ,
who testified in the insurance coverage trial, and Michael
Stanley, who represents some of the Stanford Group financial
advisers in the SEC case.  “Indigent defendants do not have the right to select their
own attorneys,” Hittner said. The judge didn’t postpone the
financier’s trial scheduled for Jan. 24.  The new attorneys,  Robert A. Scardino and Ali R. Fazel ,
told him they will be ready.  Three former colleagues accused of participating in the
fraud scheme will be tried together after Stanford’s trial.  Stanford was in court today with the attorneys he had
chosen. Bennett sat at a separate table while the lawyers
Hittner appointed sat behind them in the gallery.  String of Lawyers  The financier in the last 18 months has had a succession of
Houston criminal-defense attorneys who include  Dick DeGuerin ,
Kent Schaffer, Bennett and, briefly, Michael Sokolow of the
Federal Public Defender’s office.  Lloyd’s of London attorneys said in court filings that
insurers paid more than $8.2 million to various Stanford lawyers
before winning the right to stop paying them in the lawsuit
decided earlier this month.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The civil
case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The insurance case is
Pendergest-Holt v. Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s of London,
09-cv-3712, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 