-- Allianz Re Predicts `Stable' Rates Amid Increase in Natural Disaster Rate
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-10-27T06:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/allianz-re-predicts-stable-rates-amid-increase-in-natural-disaster-rate.html
Prices for natural-disaster coverage
in Europe will probably remain unchanged in the January round of
renewals even as events increase, the head of  Allianz SE ’s
reinsurance unit said.  “Rates should stay stable in January,”  Clemens von Weichs , head of Allianz Re, said in an interview in Baden-Baden,
Germany. “While we continue to see a rise in the number of
events, this hasn’t had an effect on the overall market.”  The unit provides reinsurance coverage for Munich-based
Allianz, including risks related to natural catastrophes. It
places the rest with other reinsurers such as  Munich Re  or Swiss
Reinsurance Co. Allianz Re is “open to write more third-party
business” to cover other insurers, but will do so “cautiously
and with a focus on long-term relationships,” von Weichs said.  Coverage for European windstorms, which may lead to the
most expensive claims for insurers and reinsurers in the region,
isn’t currently seeing a great change in demand, he said.
“Typically, the demand is coming after a large event rather
than before,” according to von Weichs.  European insurers have to be able to manage a regional
windstorm that could cause 36.7 billion euros ($51 billion) in
insured losses under new risk-based regulation,  Perils AG , a
catastrophe-loss data provider, said earlier this week. That
compares with the most expensive storm for the industry in
Europe on record, winter storm Lothar, which caused about $5.9
billion in insured losses in 1999.  “We have no doubt that a windstorm causing claims of as
much as 40 billion euros is a realistic scenario,” von Weichs
said. “One has to take into account the rise in values and
repair costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  