-- America Movil's Profit Rises 8.8% After Takeover of Slim's Phone Company
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-10-28T20:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/america-movil-profit-rises-on-purchases-of-south-american-land-line-units.html
America Movil SAB , Latin America’s
largest wireless carrier, said third-quarter profit rose 8.8
percent after the $23 billion takeover of  Carlos Slim ’s land-
line phone company in South America.  Net income rose to 23.4 billion pesos ($1.87 billion), or
58 centavos a share, from 21.5 billion, or 56 centavos, a year
earlier, Mexico City-based America Movil said yesterday in a
statement. Sales rose 5.3 percent to 154 billion pesos, meeting
the estimate of  Christopher King , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. in Baltimore.  America Movil, controlled by Mexican billionaire Slim,
bought his Telmex Internacional SAB in a $23 billion transaction
in June to add phone, Internet, and cable- and satellite-TV
operations in Brazil, Colombia and other parts of the region.
The company plans to combine Telmex’s regional fiber-optic
networks with its own to offer faster mobile Internet speeds to
customers.  America Movil closed the quarter with 217 million mobile-
phone subscribers after adding 5.5 million, beating King’s 4
million estimate. The biggest additions came in Brazil, with 1.9
million new users, and Mexico, with 1.1 million.  “The economies down there have certainly strengthened a
little more than we would’ve guessed,” aiding subscriber
growth, King said yesterday in a phone interview. He advises
holding the shares.  Network Improvements  Mexico’s economy is “getting better,” and America Movil
should be able to add more than 1 million subscribers there in
the fourth quarter, Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Hajj  said
today on a conference call.  America Movil will invest about $6 billion in mobile-phone,
land-line and satellite network improvements next year, similar
to this year’s figure, as it seeks to sign up more customers for
Internet access and pay-TV service, Hajj said.  Sales of mobile-phone data services such as text messages
and Internet access rose 27 percent last quarter to 18.4 billion
pesos, or 22 percent of overall wireless revenue.  America Movil fell 4 centavos to 35.44 pesos at 4 p.m. New
York time in Mexico City  trading . The shares have gained 15
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 