-- U.K. Stocks Climb as Commodity Prices Advance; Rio Tinto Rises
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-10-28T15:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/anglo-american-astrazeneca-mouchel-shell-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks rose for the first time
in three days as higher metals prices and a weaker U.S. dollar
boosted raw-materials companies.  BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group led mining companies
higher. Vodafone Group Plc advanced after rival France Telecom
SA said earnings increased more than analysts predicted.
AstraZeneca Plc, the U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker, dropped
3.3 percent after saying third-quarter profit fell.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  advanced 31.87, or 0.6
percent, to 5,677.89 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge
has rallied 18 percent since its low this year on July 1 as
investors speculated that the U.S. Federal Reserve will announce
additional measures to spur the economy at its November meeting,
while companies from Nokia Oyj to Fiat SpA reported results that
topped estimates. The FTSE All-Share Index rose 0.5 percent
today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index slipped 0.2 percent.  The Fed asked bond dealers and investors for their
estimates of central bank asset purchases over the next six
months, along with the likely effect on yields, as it sought to
gauge the possible impact of a new program of quantitative
easing, according to a survey obtained by Bloomberg News.  “The Fed is doing everything it possibly can and is in
unchartered territory as we’ve never had the economic conditions
that we’re experiencing at the moment,” said  James Bevan , the
chief investment officer at CCLA Investment Management Ltd., on
Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move” with Mark Barton. “The
Fed is absolutely right to go out and gauge reaction because
this is all about sentiment, not about reality.”  U.S. Jobless Claims  U.K. stocks extended their gains after the U.S. Labor
Department reported that  applications for unemployment benefits 
unexpectedly fell last week to the lowest level in three months,
a signal that the jobs market has started to recover. Initial
 jobless claims  decreased by 21,000 to 434,000 in the week ended
Oct. 23, the lowest since early July, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington.  BHP Billiton , the largest mining company, rose 2.7 percent
to 2,221 pence.  Rio Tinto , the third-biggest, gained 1.3 percent
to 4,105.5 pence. Copper, nickel and tin prices climbed in
London.  Vodafone gained 2.7 percent to 170.7 pence. France Telecom
posted a 1.9 percent increase in third-quarter earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to 4.26 billion
euros, as it expanded into Africa and the Middle East. Analysts
had predicted Ebitda of 4.14 billion euros, according to the
average of nine estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue climbed
4 percent.  AstraZeneca, Aggreko  AstraZeneca dropped 3.3 percent to 3,139.5 pence, its
largest slide in eight months. Net income declined to $1.55
billion from $2.12 billion a year earlier. The company set aside
$473 million in the quarter to resolve product liability
lawsuits over its Seroquel anti-psychotic medicine. AstraZeneca
also reported higher restructuring costs of $212 million.  Aggreko Plc  declined 4.2 percent to 1,592 pence after Numis
Securities Ltd. downgraded the shares to “sell,” even though
the company reported a 30 percent increase in third-quarter
sales.  “Today’s trading update was very much expected,” London-
based Numis analyst  Mike Murphy  wrote in a report. “We see the
shares as expensive.”  Mouchel Group Plc  slumped 30 percent to 88 pence. The U.K.
road- and infrastructure-maintenance company reported a full-
year loss of 13.46 million pounds ($21.5 million), compared with
a loss of 12.99 million pounds a year earlier.  Premier Foods Plc sank 4 percent to 18 pence after saying
third-quarter total sales fell 4.2 percent as revenue from non-
branded products declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  