-- Manulife’s Rich Urges Move to Cash, Saying Fed Boost Will Fail
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-10-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/manulife-s-rich-urges-move-to-cash-saying-fed-boost-will-fail.html
Fund managers should move holdings
into cash because stocks may plunge in the event U.S. Federal
Reserve stimulus policies fall short of expectations, the head
of asset allocation for a unit of Canada’s biggest insurer said.  The Fed will announce a policy of securities purchases,
known as quantitative easing, next week, and it won’t go far
enough to satisfy investors who have driven up the S&P 500  13
percent  since Aug. 31 in anticipation, said  Don Rich , vice
president in charge of tactical asset allocation for Manulife
Financial Corp.’s MFC Global Investment Management unit.  “Fundamentals are bad and deteriorating and the market’s
got ahead of itself,” said Rich, who helps oversee $80 billion
from Toronto and formerly helped manage Harvard University’s
endowment. “There’s really no place to hide. Just take as much
money off the table as you can and sort of sit on the sidelines
for a while.”  The U.S. dollar has fallen  12 percent  against a basket of
world currencies since reaching a 14-month high on June 7 on
investor concern that quantitative easing will weaken the
currency. The Fed may buy $2 trillion in assets, starting with a
program of $500 billion over six months likely to be announced
next week, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a note to clients
dated Oct. 22.  Rich has been urging MFC fund managers to cut risky
investments for the past six weeks in preparation for the Fed’s
Nov. 3  announcement , which he said will prove that too much
optimism over quantitative easing has been priced into stocks.  “The euphoria wears off. That’s the hangover I’m afraid
we’re setting ourselves up for,” he said in an interview Oct.
25.  Wrong Problem  After the Fed launches the second round of quantitative
easing, investors will realize it is a solution for the wrong
problem, said Rich, an Illinois native.  “QE2 is a liquidity enhancer and worked the first time
because we had a liquidity crisis,” he said. “The U.S.
 consumer’s balance sheet  is a problem. The structural problems
on the European periphery are huge. There are several problems
throughout the world, but right now, a liquidity crisis isn’t
one of those problems.”  The dollar Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance
to lend, has narrowed to 0.11 percentage point as of Oct. 26
from 3.64 points at the height of the credit crisis in 2008.  Rich’s team projects the manufacturing sector of the U.S.
economy, albeit not the entire U.S. economy, will soon contract.
Industrial production last month dropped 0.2 percent, the first
monthly decline since June 2009, the Fed said last week.  Job Market  Also last month, U.S. employers cut 95,000 workers,
according to the U.S. Labor Department, compared with a median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists of 5,000 jobs cut,  “There’s been little to no improvement in the labor
front,” he said. “That is ground zero of all the problems. In
fact the numbers seem to be softening and not strengthening.”  If fund managers must invest in stocks, they should favor
the U.S. over other countries, even though the U.S. is the root
of the forthcoming problems, Rich said. Countries more dependent
on exports, such as Canada, Germany and emerging markets, would
suffer more from an economic downturn than would the more-
balanced U.S. economy.  Meanwhile, Europe continues to suffer from debt problems
that make it a place to avoid during periods of risk aversion,
he said.  Structural Challenge  “The European problems haven’t gone away, and they won’t
go away,” Rich said. “At some point Greece and some of the
other periphery countries will have to restructure. So they’re
going to be plagued by these structural problems for years, and
it’s going to challenge the European unity.”  Rich declined to forecast how long the forthcoming downturn
will last or how far it will drag down equity prices. He did say
investors will know it’s time to get back into the market when
they see Asian markets begin to rebound after the coming
downturn.  More-volatile markets such as those of China,  Taiwan  and
Singapore “tend to be first in and first out” of pullbacks, he
said.  Manulife , based in Toronto, is North America’s third-
largest insurer and owns John Hancock Financial of Boston.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 