-- ANZ Bank 69% Second-Half Profit Gain Beats Estimates as Bad Debts Decline
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-10-28T05:57:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/anz-bank-69-second-half-profit-gain-beats-estimates-as-bad-debts-decline.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. , the best-performing bank in Sydney trading this year,
said second-half profit jumped 69 percent to a record as bad
debts declined and lending to home buyers increased.  Net income in the six months ended Sept. 30 rose to A$2.58
billion ($2.5 billion) from A$1.53 billion a year ago, the
Melbourne-based bank said in a statement. The  shares  advanced
the most since July after the result beat the A$2.53 billion
median estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Smith , 54, is expanding in
Asia to tap faster growing markets at the same time the bank’s
Australian mortgage business outpaces rivals. ANZ Bank is
studying the books of  Korea Exchange Bank  for a purchase that
Citigroup Inc. estimates may cost as much as A$6.5 billion.  “On all counts it can best be described as a cracker,”
said  Paul Xiradis , who manages about $12 billion including ANZ
Bank shares as chief executive officer of Ausbil Dexia Ltd. in
Sydney. “Their Asian strategy is proving to be a major point of
difference compared to other Australian banks.”  The bank’s  shares  gained 2.9 percent to A$24.73 in Sydney
today, extending this year’s gain to 8.1 percent. ANZ Bank is
the best performer on the six-member S&P/ASX 200 bank index,
which has slumped 6.1 percent.  KEB Stake  ANZ Bank, which CEO Smith says is alone in reviewing the
finances of KEB, is at “the back end of that process,” he said
today. “The due diligence goes on. It’s not an easy process in
somewhere like Korea. It’s just progressing,” he told reporters
in Melbourne.  KEB said in March that Dallas-based Lone Star Funds planned
to sell its controlling stake in the South Korean Lender. When
asked if an announcement will come in next few weeks, Smith said
today “I think it’s going to be a bit longer than that.”  On price, he said estimates are “very speculative.”  Australian lenders are confronting a slide in demand for
lending after central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  led Group of
20 policy makers by boosting borrowing costs in six quarter
percentage-point steps between October 2009 and May to  4.5
percent . Policy makers said last week their decision to keep the
rate unchanged this month had been “finely balanced.”  Mortgage lending across the country rose 8.1 percent in
August from a year earlier, the weakest growth in 10 months, the
Reserve Bank of Australia said last month. Business lending
slumped 4 percent from a year earlier.  Lending at ANZ Bank’s Australian businesses rose 12 percent
in the full year, driven primarily by mortgages which grew 1.4
times the overall market, the bank said today.  ‘Good Start’  ANZ Bank’s second-half  net interest income , or revenue from
borrowers after deducting interest paid to depositors, climbed 8
percent from the first half to A$5.63 billion. Provisions for
credit impairments in the second half shrank 35 percent from six
months earlier to A$705 million, the bank said.  “We continued to see momentum in our underlying business
in the second half of the year which positions us well for a
good start to 2011,” said Smith in today’s statement. “The
backdrop however is continuing uncertainty in the global
environment, particularly in the U.S. and European economies.”  Full-year net income rose 53 percent to A$4.5 billion,
which matched the median of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  Second-half underlying profit, which excludes some
acquisition costs and tax charges, climbed 19 percent from the
first half to A$2.73 billion. The bank will pay a second half
 dividend  of 74 cents, taking the full-year payout to A$1.26 a
share.  Asian Expansion  Smith plans to boost earnings from the Asia-Pacific  region 
to about 20 percent by 2012. The lender got approval last month
from the banking regulator in China, where it aims to increase
its outlets to 20 from 7, to become locally incorporated. Smith
agreed last year to pay Royal Bank of Scotland Plc $550 million
for units in six Asian countries.  “They’re getting into some higher growth markets which
will fare them well for the diversification benefit,”  Peter Vann , who helps manage about A$800 million at Constellation
Capital Management Ltd. in Sydney, said ahead of today’s results.
“Their domestic business only has so much to offer.”  Profit from businesses in Asia, Europe and America rose 18
percent in the second half to A$275 million from the previous
six months, and 25 percent in New Zealand to A$382 million. The
Australian business generated a 39 percent gain in profit to
A$1.92 billion.  Funding Needs  ANZ Bank’s Tier-1 capital ratio, a measure of its ability
to weather losses, was 10.1 percent on Sept. 30, down from 10.6
percent a year earlier.  Australia’s largest banks lend more each year than they
accept in deposit accounts at home. That forces them to turn to
offshore markets for about 30 percent of their wholesale funding.
Smith, along with chief executives at Westpac Banking Corp. and
Commonwealth Bank of Australia said this month that mortgage
rates will need to rise to cover the increased cost of raising
capital to fund loans.  According to Moody’s Investors Service,  ANZ Bank  and
National Australia Bank Ltd. need to raise as much as A$25
billion each year selling long-term bonds to help fund lending.  “Higher funding costs are here to stay and there are
regulatory uncertainties associated with new capital and
liquidity requirements,” Smith said in the statement today.  National Australia Bank, the nation’s biggest business
lender, yesterday said second-half cash profit rose 32 percent
as it expanded its share of the business loan market by
targeting smaller borrowers. Chief Executive  Cameron Clyne 
predicted a stronger economy will drive demand for corporate
loans in 2011.  Westpac’s fiscal second-half cash earnings probably gained
24 percent to A$2.9 billion, according to the median forecast of
seven analysts surveyed ahead of the bank’s Nov. 3 results.
Commonwealth Bank, the country’s largest, will publish September
quarter figures on Nov. 15.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  