-- Tanzania Expecting 15% Increase in Tourist Arrivals on New Airline Flights
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-10-27T10:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/tanzania-expects-15-increase-in-tourist-arrivals-on-new-airline-flights.html
Tourist arrivals in Tanzania may
increase 15 percent this year after  Turkish Airlines  and  Oman
Air Transport  added the East African nation to their flying
schedules, the national tourism authority said.  Tanzania expects to receive about 825,000 visitors in 2010
compared with 714,367 last year, Aloyce Nzuki, managing director
of the  Tanzania Tourist Board , said in a phone interview from
the commercial hub of Dar es Salaam today. Foreign-visitor
arrivals fell 8 percent in 2009 because of the global financial
crisis, which discouraged people from travelling, he said.  “Last year wasn’t normal as we were hit by the crisis, but
we are picking up again, and much earlier than expected,” Nzuki
said. Earnings from tourism in Tanzania are expected to advance
to more than $1.3 billion this year, from $1.2 billion in 2009.  Tourism is Tanzania’s second-biggest foreign-exchange
earner, after gold mining, according to the  Bank of Tanzania .
The industry generates about 8 percent of the East African
nation’s gross domestic product, according to the World Travel
and Tourism Council’s  website .  Turkish Airlines, known as Turk Hava Yollari AO, and Oman
Air began operating flights to Dar es Salaam in June, drawing
holidaymakers from the Middle East to add to the traditional
source markets of the U.S. and Europe, he said.  “Istanbul and Muscat are connection hubs, so it’s making it
easier for people to travel here,” Nzuki said.  Attractions in  Tanzania  include Mount Kilimanjaro, Africa’s
tallest peak, the Serengeti National Park in the north, as well
as the beaches of Zanzibar, an Indian Ocean archipelago.  The opening of two convention centers in Dar es Salaam and
one in the northern city of Arusha within the next two years
should bolster “conference tourism” in Tanzania, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  