-- Arena Stage’s $135 Million Capital Revamp Makes Concrete Sexy
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/arena-stage-135-million-d-c-revamp-makes-concrete-sexy-james-s-russell.html
The Washington theater complex that
sent “The Great White Hope” and “Next to Normal” to Broadway
has revamped itself with an eclectic expansion by architect  Bing
Thom  of Vancouver.  Flying in the face of the capital’s pomposity, Thom gave
the pugnaciously concrete  Arena Stage  high glass walls that
sensuously undulate along Sixth Street in southwest Washington.
He ran a broadly projecting roof over the two existing theaters,
the arena-style Fichandler and the Kreeger, and a new small
venue called the Arlene and  Robert Kogod  Cradle.  Thom sweeps visitors up a curved staircase to a lobby of
rounded walls, stairs and ramps that overlap and flow around the
three venues as if they were islands.  Contrasting concrete with tapered wood columns, the Hong
Kong-born architect conjures elegance with a touch of grit. Amid
the swirling spaces, the dated Fichandler, with its unmistakable
resemblance to a Pizza Hut, looks like it arrived at the wrong
party.  There’s a method to Thom’s madness. The Fichandler was
designed by Harry Weese, a key figure in Chicago in the 1960s
and ‘70s. (He also designed the grand concrete vaults of
Washington’s Metro.) At the time, the no-nonsense Fichandler and
the later Kreeger signaled the avant-garde aspirations of
founders Zelda Fichandler, Tom Fichandler and Edward Mangum.  By preserving Weese’s in-the-round auditorium, Thom
preserves the legacy of this challenging, now rarely built
theater form. The audience is seated on all four sides of the
square room, with no one more than eight rows from the front.
It’s a difficult configuration for artists, an exciting one for
audiences.  ‘Oklahoma’  Thom did not tamper with the plain cast-concrete interior,
except to close off upper-level boxes for better acoustics. The
room seats 683, almost 200 fewer than it used to. A multi-ethnic
“Oklahoma” began performances this week.  The exterior of the 500-seat Kreeger visually disappears
behind a new bar and beneath a dining space that overlooks the
lobby action. Inside, it remains an unadorned 500-seat space
with modified thrust stage painted dark blue. In an invisible
upgrade, Thom maintained its extraordinary intimacy. “Let Me
Down Easy,” written and performed by  Anna Deavere Smith , begins
Dec. 31.  Thom has added the 200-seat studio Kogod Cradle, a name
that signifies artistic director Molly Smith’s intention to use
the room to nurture new works. Thom wraps both audience and
stage in a womblike oval surfaced in a handsome aubergine-
stained basketwork of wood. Actors enter from high doorways at
the rear of the curtainless stage.  ‘Every Tongue Confess’  Thankfully Smith dispensed with the loading-dock ambience
and dead acoustics of most black-box theaters in favor of this
comfortably unassertive room that subtly builds audience
anticipation without getting in the way of the performance.
“Every Tongue Confess,” by young playwright Marcus Gardley,
premieres Nov. 9.  Spending $135 million to more than double the square
footage of a nonprofit regional theater complex in today’s
chilly arts economy may seem foolhardy, but it is the
culmination of a decade-long effort by Molly Smith. She will
continue to commission new work but also nurture “those second
and third presentations of plays that would otherwise get
overlooked,” she said on a recent tour.  A $1.1 million Mellon Foundation grant supports the
American New Voices Play Institute, which will host five
resident playwrights. The Arena has been rechristened the Mead
Center for American Theater to reflect the broadened mission and
the support of Gilbert and Jaylee Mead, who gave $35 million for
the renovation.  Thom has brought a welcome theatricality to the Mead Center
without obliterating Weese’s legacy: making theater spaces that
banish the distance between actors and audience. The Mead is an
untidy collage, but that’s a comfort compared to the arid
grandeur of the Kennedy Center. It should free Smith to keep
pumping new life into American theater.  ( James S. Russell  writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 