-- Argentine Debt, Stocks Gain as Kirchner Death May Undo Policies
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-27T16:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/argentine-bonds-gain-as-kirchner-death-may-lead-to-change-in-debt-policies.html
Argentine bonds and stocks gained as
the death of ex-president Nestor Kirchner bolstered speculation
that opposition lawmakers will win next year’s election and
reverse the country’s debt management policies.  Yields on dollar bonds due in 2033 dropped 27 basis points,
or 0.27 percentage point, to 9.19 percent as the price jumped
2.35 cents to 91.5 cents on the dollar, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Argentine stocks trading in New York surged the most
since 2008. Local markets are closed for a holiday.  Kirchner, who carried out the harshest debt restructuring
since World War II before handing power to his wife, Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner, in 2007, died of a heart attack,
according to the presidential website. His move to replace key
personnel at the statistics institute in 2007 fueled criticism
from economists and politicians including Vice President Julio
Cobos that the government is underreporting inflation.  “I don’t want to sound heartless, but it does enhance the
chance of an opposition candidate winning” next year’s
presidential election, said Edwin Gutierrez, who manages about
$6 billion of emerging-market debt, including Argentine peso-
and dollar-denominated securities, at Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc in London. “He is seen as a big stumbling block to some
indicative normalization.”  Argentine dollar debt yields 533 basis points more than
U.S. Treasuries, the most among emerging-market countries after
Venezuela and Ecuador in JPMorgan’s benchmark EMBI+ index. The
yield gap over Treasuries declined 49 basis points today, the
most in a year, to the lowest since June 2008.  ‘Wide Open’  Kirchner, 60, had said in July that either he or Fernandez
would run for president in next year’s election.  “He was seen as a potential candidate for the October
elections to succeed his wife, so now the political map is going
to be wide open,” Alberto Ramos, an economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in New York, said in a phone interview.  Goldman Sachs estimates Argentine annual inflation is about
25 percent, or more than double the 11.1 percent rate the
government reports. Both Fernandez, 57, and Kirchner have said
the government’s data is accurate.  In 2005, Kirchner offered creditors bonds worth 30 cents on
the dollar in exchange for $95 billion of defaulted debt, the
harshest restructuring terms since World War II, according to
Arturo Porzecanski, an international finance professor at
American University in Washington.  Yield Gap Declines  In June, Fernandez settled with holders of $12.2 billion of
bonds who had rejected the 2005 offering. Argentina’s yield gap
over Treasuries has declined from 807 basis points at the end of
May as Fernandez’s restructuring with holdout creditors signaled
the country is looking to regain access to the international
bond market.  Creditors including billionaire investor Kenneth Dart and
New York-based hedge fund Elliott Management Corp. are still
suing the government in international courts for repayment of
the debt.  Argentina lost its position in the benchmark emerging-
market stock index in June last year and joined MSCI Inc.’s so-
called frontier measure. MSCI cited restrictions on capital
flows that require international investors to deposit 30 percent
of investments with the central bank for a year.  “This potentially opens the door for somebody who can help
us reduce capital controls and start opening the market a little
bit more,” said Paul Herber, who helps manage $5 billion at
Forward Management LLC in Seattle, including Argentine stocks in
the Accessor Frontier Markets Fund.  MSCI Argentina  The MSCI Argentina index of six locally-based companies
gained 6.4 percent to 3,342.65 at 12:07 p.m. New York time. It
rallied as much as 13 percent, the steepest intraday advance
since Nov. 24, 2008. Grupo Financiero Galicia SA, the South
American country’s biggest consumer lender, surged as much as 26
percent. Argentina’s benchmark Merval index climbed to a record
in each of the past five days.  Investors are buying Argentine American depositary receipts
on prospects that “the Kirchner era” of high inflation and low
corporate investment may end, said Greg Lesko, who helps manage
$750 million at Deltec Asset Management in New York.  “There is no guarantee that the next person will be any
better, but change is what the market has been wanting,” Lesko
said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at   yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  