-- Marilyn Monroe Photos Fuel Research for Paralyzed Patients
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-10-27T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/marilyn-monroe-images-used-in-electrode-trial-aimed-at-paralyzed-patients.html
People with a rare disorder that
paralyzes all muscles except their eyes may one day communicate
through computer images because of research using photos of
 Marilyn Monroe  and  Josh Brolin .  In an experiment, 12 neurosurgery patients had electrodes
implanted to measure how often neurons fired in their brains.
When shown fuzzy computer images of both actors, they were able
to bring the ones of Monroe into sharper focus by concentrating
on them, according to research published in the journal  Nature .  This electrode trial was different than previous
investigations into brain-machine connections because it used
conscious memory and many fewer neurons, said  Moran Cerf , a
neuroscience researcher at the California Institute of
Technology who led the experiment. For paralyzed people such as
those with locked-in syndrome it may offer a first step toward
communication using machinery to read their thoughts, Cerf said.  “The other groups looked at the neuron and were able to
activate things outside the brain, but they were only able to
get results based on hundreds of neurons,” Cerf said in a
telephone interview. “This is only one neuron. It’s a very
precise interface.”  Bill Clinton  The area of the brain where the neurons were firing, the
medial temporal lobe, is responsible for processing concepts and
is where memories start, Cerf said. For a patient with locked-in
syndrome who is in a wheelchair, thinking of  Bill Clinton  may
enable them to move to the left someday, Cerf said.  Locked-in syndrome , popularized by the 1997 book “The
Diving Bell and the Butterfly,” is a rare neurological disorder
wherein all voluntary muscles of the body except those that
control eye movement are paralyzed, according to the National
Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke in Bethesda,
Maryland. There is no cure or standard form of treatment.  “ The Diving Bell and the Butterfly ” was written by French
journalist Jean-Dominique Bauby, who had locked-in syndrome
after a stroke; he dictated the book to an assistant by blinking
an eye, the only part of his body he could move. She recited the
alphabet and he blinked whenever she reached the letter he
wanted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 