-- Arizona Voter Law Requiring Citizenship Proof Invalidated by Appeals Court
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/arizona-voter-law-requiring-citizenship-proof-invalidated-by-appeals-court.html
Arizona’s election law requiring
residents to show proof of citizenship conflicts with the
National Voter Registration Act, a federal appeals court ruled
in overturning portions of the measure.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco yesterday
invalidated parts of Arizona’s Proposition 200, a 2004 voter-
approved initiative on registration for state and federal
elections. The court didn’t disturb a requirement that voters
show identification at the polls.  A three-judge panel of the court, in a 2-1 decision, said
the proof-of-citizenship requirement conflicted with the intent
of the federal law aiming to increase voter registration by
streamlining the process with a single form and removing state-
imposed obstacles to registration.  The federal law requires applicants to “attest to their
citizenship under penalty of perjury” without requiring
documentary proof, the panel said.  “Proposition 200 creates an additional state hurdle to
registration,” the judges said.  The law was challenged by voting rights and Hispanic
advocacy groups.  The decision is “a warning to anyone who seeks to deter or
prevent voter participation” that the Constitution “will
protect our democratic process,”  Thomas A. Saenz , president of
the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund, a San
Antonio-based group that argued the case, said in a statement.  Nov. 2 Vote  Mika Marquart, a spokeswoman for the Arizona attorney
general’s office, said the state will seek reconsideration of
the ruling by a larger panel of judges. Because the voter
registration period for next week’s election has passed, the
ruling will have little or no practical effect on the Nov. 2
vote, Marquart said in an e-mailed statement.  The appeals court panel included former Supreme Court
Justice  Sandra Day O’Connor  sitting as a retired justice. She
was a state senator and judge in Arizona before being nominated
by President  Ronald Reagan  to the high court, where she served
from 1981 to 2006. O’Connor voted with the majority in
yesterday’s decision.  The case is Gonzalez v. Arizona, 08-17094, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 