-- Las Vegas Sands Beats Estimates on Asia Casino Growth
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2010-10-28T09:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/las-vegas-sands-profit-beats-estimates-on-asia-casino-growth-shares-climb.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. , the U.S.
casino company expanding in Asia, reported third-quarter
earnings that topped analysts’ estimates after it opened a
Singapore resort and benefited from  Macau’s gambling growth .  Profit  excluding some items was 34 cents a share, more
than the 24-cent average of 21 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Hong Kong-listed unit Sands China Ltd. surged by a
record 9 percent while the parent’s stock jumped 10 percent in
New York extended trading.  Billionaire founder and Chief Executive Officer  Sheldon Adelson , who loaned his company money two years ago to
eliminate bankruptcy fears, opened the $5.5 billion Marina Bay
Sands casino resort in Singapore in phases starting in April.
 Las Vegas Sands  restarted its mothballed expansion in Macau,
China, the world’s biggest casino center.  “Strong revenue growth and increases in operational
efficiency in Macau and outstanding results at Marina Bay Sands
in Singapore contributed to substantial  margin  expansion,”
Adelson said in the statement. “We are confident that Marina
Bay Sands will provide an ideal platform for strong growth and
outstanding returns.”  Las Vegas Sands  rose $4.19, or 10 percent, to $45.25 in
extended trading after the earnings announcement. The shares
gained 6 cents to $41.06 during regular New York Stock Exchange
hours and have almost tripled this year.  Sands China Surges  Macau unit  Sands China  climbed by HK$1.32 to close at a
record HK$16.30 at the 4 p.m. close of trading in Hong Kong.
The gain is the biggest since the stock started trading in
November. The benchmark Hang Seng Index rose 0.2 percent.  Sales  jumped 67 percent to $1.91 billion, from $1.14
billion, the Las Vegas-based company said yesterday in a
statement, surpassing analysts’ $1.79 billion average  estimate .  Cash flow , measured as adjusted property earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, more than
doubled to $645.2 million, beating analysts’ projections of
$530 million. Singapore cash flow was $241.6 million, and Macau
cash flow gained 41 percent to $334.6 million. Macau, the only
place in China where casinos are legal, saw total gambling
revenue  surge  60 percent in the nine months through September.  Companywide Ebitda will be “substantially in excess” of
the $3 billion Adelson earlier forecast for 2011, he said on a
conference call. Singapore Ebitda alone may be as high as $2
billion in 2012, he said.  Singapore Retail  Sands China  is “on pace for a record October,” after a
“strong” Golden Week, a Chinese holiday this month, Adelson
said on the call. The Macau-based company’s revenue increased
28 percent to $1.08 billion and adjusted property Ebitda gained
43 percent on a record result at its Four Seasons Hotel Macao
and Plaza Casino.  “Better performance from Four Seasons and stringent cost
control underpins the rapid earnings growth and margins,”
 Aaron Fischer , an analyst at CLSA Ltd., said in a note to
clients today. Fischer affirmed his “buy”  rating  on Sands
China.  The company may open all of the retail areas planned in
Singapore by the end of 2011, Chief Operating Officer  Mike Leven  said on the call. Executives “don’t see any let up in
growth” at the resort, and payroll is expected to increase to
about 8,400 employees as planned, he said.  The quarterly  net income  of $214.5 million, or 21 cents a
share, compared with a net loss of $76.5 million, or 19 cents,
a year earlier, the company said.  Venetian, Palazzo  Las Vegas Sands’ Venetian and Palazzo resorts on the Las
Vegas Strip reported Ebitda rose 69 percent to $58.3 million,
as the casinos won more at the tables and filled more rooms.
Las Vegas is emerging from a record two-year drop in corporate
meetings and gambling.  Las Vegas Sands  said this week that its Venetian and
Palazzo casino resorts in Las Vegas will join InterContinental
Hotels Group Plc’s database and loyalty program, gaining access
to travelers who can help fill the properties’ 7,000 suites.  In August, Las Vegas Sands amended its U.S. loan to get
more flexibility and delay maturities in exchange for a higher
interest rate. The company also agreed to repay about $1
billion of the debt.  Sands China  raised $2.5 billion last year in a Hong Kong
initial public offering and convertible bond issue to repay
loans and resume construction.  The company suspended projects in Macau, Las Vegas and
Pennsylvania in November 2008, when the financial crisis froze
funding and decimated casino company share prices, and while
auditors questioned its solvency. Most of Sands’ building
projects have since restarted.  Overall, Macau casino revenue in the first nine months
advanced 60 percent to 133 billion patacas ($16.6 billion) from
the same period last year, according to Macau’s Gaming
 Inspection and Coordination Bureau .  Las Vegas Strip gambling proceeds increased 4.5 percent to
$3.81 billion in the first eight months of this year, data from
Nevada’s Gaming Control Board show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  