-- Asda, Morrison Lose Bid for Tesco Papers in U.K. Tobacco Case
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-10-27T13:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/asda-morrison-lose-bid-for-tesco-papers-in-u-k-tobacco-case.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ’s Asda unit and
 William Morrison Supermarkets Plc  lost a court bid to shed more
light on a U.K. antitrust regulator’s decision to drop Tesco Plc
from a tobacco price-fixing case.  The  Office of Fair Trading ’s choice to exclude Britain’s
biggest retailer from fines totaling 225 million pounds ($356
million) has no bearing on the claims against Asda, Morrison or
other members of an alleged cigarette cartel, the  Competition
Appeal Tribunal  ruled today in London.  “It is not part of the tribunal’s function to consider why
the OFT arrived at that conclusion,” according to the ruling.
“The documents sought are not relevant.” The retailers had
demanded to see the regulator’s communications with Tesco and
other internal documents.  Asda, Morrison,  J Sainsbury Plc  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc 
allegedly agreed with cigarette makers  Imperial Tobacco Group
Plc  and Japan Tobacco Inc.’s Gallaher unit to fix prices on
cigarettes and cigars between 2001 and 2003, driving up prices
for consumers. The regulator in April dropped Tesco from the
seven-year-old probe, citing a lack of proof it participated in
price fixing.  Morrison, based in Bradford, England, argued that if the
regulator’s evidence against it was “damning,” then the same
type of documents should be equally damaging to Tesco, court
records show. The tribunal said the OFT’s reasons for excluding
Tesco shouldn’t be used as a “benchmark” of violations by
other companies.  The OFT welcomed the tribunal’s ruling, agency spokeswoman
 Kasia Reardon  said today.  Morrison spokesman Kevin Smith didn’t immediately comment
when reached today by phone. Jo Newbould, a spokeswoman for
Leeds, England-based Asda, didn’t immediately return a call for
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 