-- Asian Stocks Slump, Commodities Drop While Dollar Strengthens
-- B y   N i c o l a s   J o h n s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-10-27T04:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/asian-stocks-commodities-fall-as-dollar-gains-australian-currency-drops.html
Asian  shares  slumped the most in
almost two weeks and U.S. stock index futures fell as commodity
prices dropped and the dollar strengthened. Australia’s currency
weakened after the nation’s inflation rate rose less than
economists estimated.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 1.3 percent to 128.84 as
of 1:15 p.m. in Tokyo. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures
retreated 0.4 percent. The so-called Aussie traded at 97.23 U.S.
cents and the yen weakened to 81.76 against the dollar.  Oil dropped, snapping three days of gains, as investors
sold futures contracts against a strengthening dollar and on
speculation U.S. crude stockpiles climbed to the highest since
June. BYD Co., the Chinese carmaker backed by  Warren Buffett ,
plunged in Hong Kong trading after JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its
investment rating on the company, while  Asciano Group  dropped
the most in more than four months in Sydney after Australia’s
largest port operator said coal shipments missed its estimates.  “In the short term, expect Asian markets to see a
correction,” said  Chris Leung , a Hong Kong-based portfolio
manager at Taifook Asset Management Ltd., which oversees $400
million. “I’m a bit cautious at the moment.”  More than twice as many stocks declined as advanced in the
MSCI Asia index. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index retreated 1.5
percent, South Korea’s Kospi Index decreased 0.7 percent and
Australia’s S&P/ASX Index fell 0.7 percent. Most Asia-Pacific
indexes reversed gains from this morning.  Asicano Tumbles  Asciano Group  lost 5.5 percent in Sydney, the most in more
than four months, after Australia’s largest port operator said
first-quarter coal shipments missed its expectations.  Australia’s dollar tumbled as government price data curbed
expectations the central bank will need to increase interest
rates to restrain inflation.  The currency dropped 1.3 percent. It briefly reached parity
on Oct. 15. The U.S. dollar reached as strong as $1.3810 per
euro, the most since Oct. 20, before trading at $1.3813 from
$1.3859 in New York yesterday. It gained to 81.74 yen from 81.43
yesterday.  Australian consumer prices rose 2.8 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, after increasing at a 3.1 percent
pace in the previous three months. The  median estimate  of 24
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 2.9 percent
increase.  Swaps prices indicated a 16 percent chance that the Reserve
Bank of Australia will boost borrowing costs next week from 47
percent yesterday, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index.  ‘Gradual Rate Increases’  “Any rate increase in Australia will be only gradual, even
if the Reserve Bank of Australia were to resume the monetary
tightening cycle next week,” said  Akira Maekawa , a senior
economist at online currency trading company Global Futures &
Forex Ltd. in Tokyo. “Given such a benign rate outlook, the
Aussie will struggle in extending its gains far above parity.”  U.S. Treasuries snapped a five-day decline after Federal
Reserve Bank of New York President William Dudley said momentum
in the economy has slowed.  “The Great Recession has been followed by a tepid
recovery,” Dudley said yesterday in a speech in Rochester, New
York. “Since 2009, economic activity has grown, but not
robustly,” he said. “The momentum has slowed.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes  fell  two basis points to
2.63 percent in Tokyo, according to BGCantor Market Data. The
yield may rise to between 3.10 percent and 3.20 percent by
year’s end as further monetary easing by the Federal Reserve
increases expectations for faster inflation, Citigroup Inc. said.  Longer-term bond yields are poised to rise from recent
troughs, analysts led by New York-based  Tom Fitzpatrick  said in
a note to clients, citing technical patterns and historical
parallels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicolas Johnson  in Tokyo at 
 nicojohnson@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu in Tokyo at   pachu@bloomberg.net . 