-- AstraZeneca, Whip Topping, Left Behind, Raytheon: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-10-27T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/astrazeneca-whip-topping-left-behind-raytheon-intellectual-property.html
AstraZeneca Plc , the U.K.’s second-
largest drugmaker, said it filed a lawsuit yesterday claiming
 Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc.  is infringing a patent on the active
ingredient in cholesterol medicine Crestor.  Donna Huang, a spokeswoman for the London-based drugmaker,
said the lawsuit involves a patent related to rosuvastatin
calcium.  USPTO, EPO to Work Together to Develop Classification System  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the European
Patent Office have agreed to work toward the creation of a joint
patent-classification system, the USPTO said in a  statement .  The aim of the project is to align both the U.S. and the
European classification systems with the International Patent
Classification System, which is administered by the World
Intellectual Property Organization, a United Nations agency.  The new system will be more detailed, improving patent-
searching efforts, and is intended to eliminate unnecessary
duplication of work between the two offices.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Hells Angels Sue Saks, McQueen Design Over Trademark  The  Hells Angels Motorcycle Club  sued fashion design house
 Alexander McQueen  and retail chain  Saks Inc.  for trademark
infringement for selling handbags, jewelry and clothing using
the club’s death-head design.  Hells Angels Motorcycle Corp. said McQueen’s company, New
York-based Saks and retailer Zappos.com Inc. have been selling
infringing products in stores in California and online,
according to a complaint filed Oct. 25 in U.S. District Court in
Los Angeles.  The Oakland, California-based motorcycle club said it has
been using the death-head mark, a skull with wings, since its
founding in 1948. The Hells Angels have authorized the use of
the marks on jewelry, apparel and “promotional and
entertainment services,” according to the complaint.  Saks, McQueen and Zappos have been selling items including
the Hells Angels Jacquard Box Dress and Hells Angels Pashmina
that deploy the trademarks, according to the complaint. The
jacquard dress is listed on McQueen’s website for $1,595 and the
pashmina scarf for $560.  A woman’s handbag designed by McQueen called “Hell’s
Knuckle Duster” is listed on Zappos.com’s site for $2,329.
Zappos is owned by Seattle-based  Amazon.com Inc.   McQueen, the designer for whom the fashion house is named,
committed suicide in February.  Julia Bentley, a spokeswoman for Saks, said the company had
no comment on the complaint. Diane Coffey, a spokeswoman for
Zappos, said the company has no immediate comment.  Representatives of Alexander McQueen, based in London,
couldn’t be reached for comment. McQueen is a unit of PPR’s
Gucci Group, based in Amsterdam.  The suit was filed by Fritz Clapp of Beverly Hills,
California. Clapp acts as IP counsel for the Hells Angels, and
has represented the motorcycle club in at least 13 trademark
cases, according to Bloomberg data.  The case is Hells Angels Motorcycle Corp. v. Alexander
McQueen Trading Ltd., 10-08029, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles).  Rich Joint Venture Loses Appeal of India Trademark Verdict  The Delhi High Court dismissed the appeal of trademark
infringement lawsuit Rich Graviss Products Pvt. brought against
 Indo Nippon Foods Ltd.  over the use of the term “whip
topping,” Food a Beverage News  reported .  Rich’s Brand Whip Topping, a joint venture between Rich
Graviss Products and Rich Products Corp., claimed they had the
exclusive rights to the term, and objected to alleged
similarities between their product’s packaging and Indo Nippon’s
Bells Non Dairy Whip Topping, according to Food & Beverage News.  After Indo Nippon prevailed at the trial-court level, Rich
appealed and was met with the high court’s judgment that the
appeal was meritless and neither side could claim exclusivity to
the design, according to the trade publication.  The high court also said that the Bells product didn’t copy
the Rich Dairy Whip Topping Packaging, Food & Beverage News
reported.  Left Behind Games Acquires IP, Other Assets of Cloud 9 Games  Left Behind Games Inc. , the maker of computer games based
on the Christian “ Left Behind ” novels, bought the trademarks
and other assets of Cloud 9 games, the Murrieta, California-
based company said in a statement.  Cloud 9 Games is second in size only to Left Behind Games
in the Christian computer-game marketplace.  Among the existing Cloud 9 games, developed with Left
Behind’s assistance, are Praise Champion and King Solomon’s
Trivia Challenge. The Cloud 9 products are distributed by Terra
Firma Capital Partners Ltd.’s EMI unit through Christian
retailers, including Family Christian Stores, Parable, Berean,
Mardel and Lifeway.  Left Behind Games said in the statement it will present
Praise Champion and King Solomon’s Trivia Challenge to  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.  this week “during our national line review.”  The Left Behind novels, by  Tim LaHaye  and  Jerry Jenkins ,
deal with a Christian view of the end of the world, based on
apocalyptic books of the Bible. In addition to the video games,
the books are also the sources of three action-thriller films by
 Cloud Ten Pictures  of St. Catharines, Ontario.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-Raytheon Employee’s Home Raided by Agents of FBI, ICE  The home of a former  Raytheon Co.  employee who has a patent
on an anti-land mine missile was searched by federal
investigators, according to the Boston Globe.  The Globe reported that the home was searched by agents of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Immigrations and Customs
Enforcement, and boxes were removed from the house and carried
to a van.  The former employee, who left Raytheon for undisclosed
reasons, previously headed the defense contractor’s warhead
lethality group, according to the newspaper.  There is no immediate threat to the public, a spokeswoman
for U.S. Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz told the Globe.  Copyright  Licensing Group, Carriers Near Accord on Music Rates  A licensing organization is near a settlement with two of
the largest mobile-phone companies on payments for music over
wireless devices, lawyers for both sides said in court.  The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers,
 Verizon Communications Inc.  and  Ericsson Inc.  are close to an
agreement, their lawyers said yesterday at a hearing in New
York. ASCAP hasn’t reached agreement with another carrier, AT&T
Inc., its lawyer said.  “We’re almost at the finish line, particularly with
 Verizon  and Ericsson,” said David Leichtman, who represents New
York-based ASCAP. “We’re at an impasse with AT&T. We may need
some assistance from the court.”  Licensing groups are fighting for as much money as they can
for songwriters and publishers as sales of physical products
such as compact discs decline. Digital transmission of music,
through mobile ringtones and streaming services, is seen as an
area of revenue growth for the music business.  ASCAP is required by a consent decree to settle disputes
over royalties with providers of music in U.S. District Court in
New York.  “We’ve made progress,” Joseph Petersen, a lawyer for
Dallas-based AT&T, told Judge Denise Cote. Three issues remain
for AT&T, he said. One is how to account for revenue from future
video services AT&T plans to offer on wireless phones, Petersen
said.  Cote told the lawyers to continue negotiations for two
weeks, then meet with a magistrate judge if necessary to settle
remaining issues. If disputes remain, both sides are to submit
briefs by Dec. 17, and a hearing will be held in January, she
said.  The setting of licensing rates in federal court is the
result of an antitrust suit the U.S. government brought against
ASCAP in 1941.  The case is In the Matter of the Application of Cellco
Partnership d/b/a Verizon Wireless for the Determination of
Reasonable License Fees, 1:09-cv-07074, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Winfrey Accused of Infringing Election Pamphlet Copyright  Oprah Winfrey and her production company were sued for
copyright infringement by the author of a pamphlet about the
U.S. election process.  Charles Harris wrote “How American Elects Her Presidents”
and registered the work’s copyright in January 2000. He sells
the booklet through his company, Philadelphia-based Unique
Products & Services.  According to the complaint he filed yesterday in federal
court in Philadelphia, he sent 10 copies of the booklet to
Winfrey in January 2008, together with a letter querying the
show’s interest in featuring the work.  He said he received no response, and then saw Winfrey using
“the exact same questions that are included in his booklet” on
her Feb. 9, 2009, show. He said the questions in the booklet
weren’t designed for her show, and were used without his
permission.  Harris claims the use of his material on the show was
“deliberate, willful, malicious, oppressive and without
regard” to his rights. He alleges he suffered injury, loss and
damage from what he says is the unauthorized use of his work,
and asked the court for awards of money damages, attorney fees
and litigation costs.  Additionally, he requested an award of profits the show
realized through its alleged infringement.  Harris is represented by  James E. Lee  of Houston-based
 Brooker Richardson & Associates .  The case is Charles Harris v. Oprah Winfrey, 2:10-cv-05655-
JD, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania
(Philadelphia).  New Platform Set Up to Increase Access to Published Works  A month after blind entertainer Stevie Wonder addressed the
World Intellectual Property Organization,  calling for better
access  to copyright-protected materials by the handicapped, a
new program has been established to facilitate the process.  Beginning Nov. 1, the Trusted Intermediary Global
Accessible Resources Project -- known as TIGAR -- will bring
together content owners and advocacy groups for the handicapped,
according to a  statement  from the  WIPO , an agency of the United
Nations.  WIPO will provide technical support for the project, which
aims to create accessible formats to be shared among publishers
and specialized libraries. This will provide access to a wider
range of books for the 340 million people around the world who
are blind, visually impaired or have other disabilities
impairing their ability to read, WIPO said.  WIPO’s Standing Committee on Copyright and Related Rights
will work with all stakeholders to create a legal framework for
the publishing venture. The UN agency said it expects the first
transfer of accessible books to take place in mid-2011.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 