-- AU Optronics Profit Plunges 97% After Decline in Flat-Screen Panel Prices
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2010-10-27T09:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/au-optronics-third-quarter-profit-plunges-97-after-flat-panel-prices-fall.html
AU Optronics Corp. , Taiwan’s second-
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, posted a 97 percent
plunge in third-quarter profit, missing analyst estimates after
panel prices fell more than it expected.  Net income dropped to NT$227 million ($7.4 million) from
NT$7.42 billion a year earlier, the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based
company said today. Analysts predicted profit of NT$2.9 billion,
and expect net income to fall to NT$99 million this quarter,
based on the average of 11  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Overall prices of AUO’s panels will decline in the fourth
quarter from the third, while shipments of television panels,
accounting for 56 percent of revenue, will climb slightly, said
 Paul Peng , executive vice president of global business. Weaker
demand for electronics led customers to scale back inventory
last quarter, leading to greater-than-expected price drops, the
company said.  “TV panel prices are still on a downward trend, while
computer panel prices have probably hit bottom,” said Frank
Wang, a Morgan Stanley analyst in Taipei. “At this point, it’s
difficult to forecast AUO’s fourth-quarter bottom line.”  AUO, which  Chimei Innolux Corp.  overtook as Taiwan’s
largest LCD maker in March, was unchanged at NT$30.75 at the
1:30 p.m. close in Taipei trading before its announcement.  Rapid Changes  “The industry is changing very rapidly and it’s getting
more and more difficult to predict the future of the market,”
Peng said at a briefing in Taipei. “The market went into
inventory adjustment that lasted two whole months.”  Third-quarter sales climbed 12 percent from a year earlier
to NT$124.4 billion.  Computer-panel prices probably bottomed in the third
quarter and prices may increase for some newer models in the
current three-month period, Chief Financial Officer  Andy Yang 
said at the briefing.  AUO’s overall panel price per square meter fell to $792 in
the third quarter from $847 in the second quarter and $899 a
year earlier.  Prices of TV screens averaged $244, compared with $247 in
the second quarter and $243 a year earlier. Computer-panel
prices averaged $57, falling from $68 in the quarter before and
the same level a year earlier.  Global computer shipments rose 11 percent in the third
quarter, less than previously forecast, as back-to-school sales
remained weak, Framingham, Massachusetts-based  researcher  IDC
said Oct. 13. ISuppli Corp., an El Segundo, California-based
researcher,  said  Sept. 30 that there has been a significant
slowdown in second-half consumer demand for some electronic
devices, including personal computers.  New Plant  AUO’s Peng said the company’s second 8.5-generation plant
will be built on schedule in Taiwan and begin operating next
year. Later generations of factories are able to make larger
panels used for bigger TVs.  Peng also said he hopes the island’s government will review
AUO’s plan for its first flat-panel factory in China soon.
Taiwan’s government on Feb. 10 last year announced the easing of
rules that paves the way for local companies to build LCD
factories in China while requiring applicants to keep their best
technology at home.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 