-- Australian Developer Medich Charged With Soliciting Murder, Refused Bail
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-10-27T13:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/australian-developer-medich-charged-with-soliciting-murder-denied-bail.html
Australian property developer Ron
Medich was charged by police with soliciting to murder
businessman Michael McGurk and refused bail by a Sydney court
yesterday.  Magistrate Antony Townsden yesterday rejected an offer from
Medich’s lawyer Clive Steirn to put up more than A$1.5 million
($1.46 million) in guarantees for his release, ruling the
protection and welfare of the community and witnesses required
Medich to remain in jail.  That “is the overwhelming concern of the court,” Townsden
said at yesterday’s bail hearing, as Medich, in a black shirt,
watched from prison by video link. “Bail is refused.”  Medich, 62, is accused by police of arranging the murder of
McGurk, with whom he had a business dispute. The two were
involved in litigation in federal court. McGurk was shot Sept. 3,
2009, outside his home in the Sydney suburb of Cremorne.  Police arrested Medich earlier yesterday, after having
charged four other men earlier this month.  One of the men, Lucky Gattellari, 60, implicated Medich as
having contracted McGurk’s murder, according to police.  The prosecution’s case, based on information from an
alleged accomplice, is weak, Steirn said.  Medich is a multimillionaire, with property valued at A$40
million in New South Wales, no criminal record and could have
fled any time while he was being investigated, Steirn said.  Medich, with his brother Roy, made the BRW list of the
richest 200 Australians in 2005 with a net worth of A$135
million, according to the  Sydney Morning Herald .  Now, Medich faces a year in jail awaiting trial, Steirn
said.  “That is totally incosistent with the presumption of
innocence,” Steirn said to the magistrate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  