-- Australia Consumer Prices Rise Less Than Forecast; Currency Drops
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-27T05:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/australian-consumer-prices-rise-0-7-less-than-estimates-currency-drops.html
Australian  consumer prices  rose less
than forecast last quarter, driving down the nation’s currency
as traders unwound bets the central bank will raise interest
rates next week.  The consumer price index rose 0.7 percent from the second
quarter, the  Bureau of Statistics  said in Sydney today. That was
less than the 0.8 percent  median estimate  in a Bloomberg News
survey of 24 economists. The central bank’s measures of core
inflation showed annual price increases slowed last quarter.  The currency plunged 1.2 percent on speculation slowing
inflation will allow Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  to keep rates unchanged Nov. 2. Expectations of a rate
rise had mounted after minutes of this month’s meeting said the
decision to leave rates steady was “finely balanced” with the
case for an increase.  “The Reserve Bank will be hard-pressed to justify a rate
hike next week,” said  Craig James , a senior economist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Sydney. “The good inflation
numbers have justified the decisions to leave rate settings on
hold over the past few months.”  The Australian dollar slid to 97.36 U.S. cents as of 4:25
p.m. in Sydney from 98.59 cents just before the report. The
currency reached parity with the U.S. dollar on Oct. 15 for the
first time since 1983, partly on expectations of an increase in
borrowing costs.  Fed’s Policy  The U.S. Federal Reserve has kept its benchmark interest-
rate near zero since December 2008 and announces its next policy
move the day after the RBA’s decision next week.  A  Credit Suisse AG index  based on swaps trading today
showed there was a 16 percent chance that Stevens would increase
borrowing costs by a quarter-percentage-point to 4.75 percent
next week compared with 52 percent two days ago.  Today’s report showed core inflation, as measured by the
central bank’s so-called trimmed mean gauge, rose 0.6 percent
from the previous quarter and 2.5 percent from a year earlier.
Both gauges were below economists’ median estimates.  The weighted-median gauge of inflation advanced 0.5 percent
in the third quarter for an annual increase of 2.3 percent.
Economists forecast a quarter-to-quarter gain of 0.7 percent and
annual rose of 2.6 percent.  Both of the RBA inflation measures were near the mid-point
of the central bank’s 2 percent to 3 percent target range.  2.8% Gain  Consumer prices advanced 2.8 percent in third quarter from
a year earlier, less than economists’ estimates and slower than
a 3.1 percent annual rise in the April-June period, the report
showed.  “Today’s inflation numbers must have been music to the
Reserve Bank staff’s collective ears,” said  Paul Bloxham , chief
economist for Australia and New Zealand at HSBC Holdings Plc in
Sydney and a former RBA official. “Inflation is now firmly back
in the RBA’s target band, with three of the past four quarterly
readings in the comfort zone.”  The strength of the economy means a rate increase next week
is probably more likely than the market is showing, though the
central bank may wait to see domestic data next month, said  Su- Lin Ong , senior economist at RBC Capital Markets in Sydney.  “The current pace of inflation remains moderate despite
strengthening growth, soaring terms of trade, and an
increasingly tight labor market,” she said. “We are also
mindful that the rest of the domestic data over the last month
have mostly been on the stronger side of expectations.”  Health, Housing  Today’s report showed health costs fell 0.7 percent in the
third quarter, transportation expenses dropped 0.6 percent and
the price of food declined 0.5 percent. By contrast, alcohol and
tobacco rose 3.1 percent, and housing increased 2.3 percent.
Electricity prices gained 6 percent.  Stevens kept borrowing costs unchanged for a fifth meeting
this month, after boosting the benchmark lending rate by 150
basis points from early October 2009 to May this year, from a
half-century low of 3 percent.  The third-quarter inflation picture “provides some
vindication for the RBA’s wait-and-see approach at the October
board meeting,” Bloxham said.  Companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Rio Tinto Group 
have helped spur a hiring boom as they increase shipments of
iron ore and coal to China. Australia’s jobless rate of 5.1
percent is nearly half the U.S. level of 9.6 percent.  Trade Windfall  The nation’s terms of trade, a measure of income earned
from exports, are near a 60-year high, and Stevens this week
cited soaring prices in previous booms to underscore the bank’s
inflation target range.  Data released this week showed  prices paid to Australian
producers  rose 1.3 percent in the third quarter, the most in
almost two years, and an Oct. 7 report revealed that full-time
employment in the past two months had its biggest back-to-back
increase since 1988.  Central bank Deputy Governor  Ric Battellino  said this month
that economic growth in Australia is expected to pick up from
its current rate of about 3.25 percent to closer to 4 percent
“over the next couple of years.”  Gross domestic product expanded 3.3 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the biggest gain since 2008, a
report showed last month. Australia’s GDP per capita this year
is the highest of any nation in the Asia-Pacific region,
according to the International Monetary Fund.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Canberra at 
 heath1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  