-- Employers in U.S. Start Bracing for Higher Tax Withholding
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-10-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/tax-debate-delay-has-employees-in-u-s-preparing-for-smaller-take-home-pay.html
Employers in the U.S. are starting
to warn their workers to prepare for slimmer  paychecks  if
Congress fails to vote on an extension of  Bush-era  tax cuts.  “I’ve been doing payroll for probably close to 30 years
now, and never have we seen something like this where it gets
that down to the wire,” said Dennis Danilewicz, who manages
payroll services for about 14,000 employees at New York
University’s  Langone Medical Center . “That’s what’s got a lot
of people nervous. All we can do is start preparing
communications with a couple of different scenarios.”  Lawmakers won’t start debating whether to extend the cuts,
which expire Dec. 31, until after the Nov. 2 elections. Because
it takes weeks to prepare withholding schedules, the Internal
Revenue Service will probably have to assume the cuts will
expire and direct employers to increase  payroll deductions 
starting Jan. 1, experts say.  “We’re kind of stuck between a rock and a hard place,”
said Ron Moser, head of human resources for the school district
of  Kenmore-Town of Tonawanda , New York, which pays about 1,900
teachers, custodians and aides each month. In upstate New York,
where winter heating costs are among the highest in the country,
many school employees earn between $20,000 and $40,000 a year,
he said, and losing $50 in a paycheck is “a significant dollar
amount.”  Employees Calls  “We’re starting to get the calls” from employees asking
what they need to do for the next tax year, Moser said.  President  Barack Obama  and most Democrats want tax cuts
extended for middle-income earners and to end for the wealthiest
Americans, the top 2 or 3 percent of earners. Republicans want
tax cuts extended for everyone, arguing that an increase makes
little sense as the economy recovers from the worst recession
since the 1930s. Tax cuts went into effect in 2001 and 2003.  For Moser, the challenge of the moment is keeping people in
the Buffalo suburb, home to about 78,000 residents, calm about
what will happen in January. The area has several manufacturing
employers -- including 3M Co.,  General Motors Co.  and  Praxair
Inc.  -- and unemployment is 7.6 percent, lower than the national
 rate  of 9.6 percent. Still, many people are worried, he said.  “The bulk of our employees don’t understand” the coming
tax debate in Congress, Moser said. “When they see this type of
thing happening they go into panic mode. They don’t follow
what’s going on.”  June 2001 Rates  If Congress fails to act,  income tax rates  will revert to
higher levels dating from June 2001.  For a married couple with an income of $80,000, that would
drain an extra $221.48 in withholding from a semi-monthly
paycheck, according to calculations by the  Tax Institute at H&R
Block . Married individuals earning $240,000 a year would lose an
additional $557.78 to withholding in a single semi-monthly
paycheck. The Tax Institute at H&R Block calculated federal tax
rates for single-income earners and married taxpayers without
children.  Paychecks could shrink in January and into February,
depending on how long it takes Congress to act.  January could well be a time of “sticker shock” for
salaried employees and their employers, said Kathy Pickering,
executive director of  the Tax Institute , an independent research
division at Kansas City, Missouri-based H&R Block Inc.  “If the laws get passed late in December, it’s just
necessarily going to take one to three weeks to get those
payroll tables updated and implemented into the system,”
Pickering said.  Blow to Spending  Allowing the tax cuts to expire, even temporarily, would
deal a blow to disposable income and could curtail the consumer
spending that accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, said
 Alec Phillips , a Washington-based economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  “The longer the expiration lasts, the more significant the
impact will be,” he said.  Economists raised estimates for consumer spending in the
third quarter to 2 percent from 1.9 percent, according to the
median forecast on a Bloomberg News survey this month. Spending
rose at a 2.2 percent pace in the second quarter. The Commerce
Department will release third-quarter data on Oct. 29.  Making a withholding-rate change could take longer for
small businesses that don’t outsource payroll services, experts
said. If a business can’t react fast enough, employees could
recoup any over-withholding by filing a new W-4 tax form to
temporarily lower their federal withholding rate.  Another option is to wait until 2012 when workers file
their tax returns for the previous year.  Taxpayer Strategy  Taxpayers could use the same strategies if Congress
reinstates the tax cuts next year and they need to recoup the
extra withholding.  Jodi Parsons, manager of payroll and accounts payable at
 IFMC , a health care management company based in West Des Moines,
Iowa, said if the IRS issues two sets of withholding tables, her
two-person office could be overwhelmed with processing changes
to W-4 forms.  “We’d have to basically go back and hand calculate checks
for all 800-900 employees to determine whether or not we need to
deduct additional taxes from them or refund taxes,” Parsons
said. “We’d like to see changes in mid-November just to make
sure we have time.”  There are now six federal tax brackets, ranging from 10
percent to 35 percent. If Congress doesn’t act, there will be
five rates with the top bracket reaching 39.6 percent.  Nov. 20 notice  Last year, the IRS alerted payroll departments on Nov. 20
about the 2010 tax tables, said  Scott Mezistrano , senior manager
of government relations at the American Payroll Association in
Washington. He said a delay in guidance from the IRS could
increase costs for some small businesses.  The  Treasury Department  last week issued a statement that
it was “maintaining flexibility” with regards to the release
of the withholding tables for 2011.  If the IRS issues tables in mid-November and then again
later, businesses will double their programming costs,
Mezistrano said. A related concern, he said, is if Congress
makes a last-minute decision to extend the cuts and companies
aren’t able to implement the change before January.  Business owners may face “tons of angry employees pounding
at my office door saying, ‘What have you done to my paycheck?’”
Mezistrano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  