-- Lazard Profit Beats Estimates on Rise in Takeover Advisory Fees
-- B y   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2010-10-27T20:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/lazard-profit-beats-estimates-on-rise-in-takeover-advisory-fees.html
Lazard Ltd. , the biggest independent
merger adviser, reported third-quarter earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates on higher revenue from advising on mergers
and acquisitions.  Profit rose 18 percent to $62.2 million, or 46 cents a
share, from $52.5 million, or 41 cents, in the same period a
year earlier, the Hamilton, Bermuda-based firm said today in a
statement. Profit surpassed the 42-cent average estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Operating revenue from mergers
and acquisitions advice jumped 29 percent to $160.7 million.  Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth Jacobs  has added bankers as
Lazard bets on a rebound in takeovers. The firm got a boost this
quarter by advising on the merger of Continental Airlines Inc.
and UAL Corp., and on $14.4 billion of transactions between
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. and Coca-Cola Co., according to the
statement. Asset-management revenue climbed 32 percent.  “We’re looking for a gradual improvement in M&A and you’ve
been seeing that,” Chief Financial Officer  Michael J. Castellano  said in an interview today. “CEO and board
confidence has recovered tremendously from where it was a year
ago and the financing markets have gotten better.”  Jacobs, 52, was named CEO in November 2009 after the death
of Bruce Wasserstein, the Wall Street dealmaker who took Lazard
public in 2005.  ‘Solid Quarter’  “Solid quarter and, more important, the outlook remains
encouraging,”  Douglas Sipkin , an analyst at New York’s
Ticonderoga Securities LLC ,said in a note today. He has a
“buy” rating on the stock.  Lazard rose 59 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $36.83 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange  composite trading . The shares are
down 3 percent for the year.  The quarter’s increase in revenue from takeovers cushioned
a 45 percent drop from restructuring advice to $66 million,
Castellano said. Operating revenue from asset management
increased to $208 million. Lazard looks to that business to
temper the swings in its advisory businesses. Asset management
 provided  at least 35 percent of annual revenue from 2004 through
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The star here was asset management,”  Chris Kotowski , an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, wrote today in a
research note. The unit’s operating revenue was 16 percent
higher than he estimated.  Kotowski  downgraded  the stock to “perform” from
“outperform” after it hit his price target. There is nothing
to dislike about Lazard other than its stock price, he wrote,
calling the shares “not cheap.”  Assets Accumulate  Assets under management climbed to $143.6 billion at the
end of September from $123.5 billion in June this year and
$120.2 billion in September 2009.  The firm gathered $1.1 billion of net inflows to the
management business, which is about 84 percent equities,
Castellano said. Year-to-date inflows are $6.2 billion.  “We continued a positive trend in an environment when many
managers are seeing significant outflows,” Castellano said.  Compensation expenses rose to 59.7 percent of operating
revenue from 58.2 percent in the same quarter last year,
according to the statement. The latest figure exceeded the
firm’s target of no more than 57.5 percent, spelled out in
Lazard’s initial public stock offering prospectus in 2005.  The ratio has moved down this year as deal-making has
picked up, Castellano said. For the first nine months it was
down to 60 percent from 62.9 percent for the same period a year
earlier. The firm expects new government restrictions on bigger
competitors to hold down Wall Street pay, Lazard executives said
in a July conference call.  Compensation Costs  Following an initial round of hiring after the start of the
credit crunch, Lazard pruned its payroll to control compensation
costs. The firm had as many as 154 managing directors in its
financial advisory segment in March 2009 when it took a $63
million charge to cover staff reductions, according to company
filings. At the end of June, Lazard had 131 managing directors
to provide financial advice on deals, restructuring and raising
capital, according to a report filed with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  The firm was the 10th-ranked financial adviser by the value
of deals announced in the first nine months of the year,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Henry  in New York at 
 dhenry19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  