-- BAA's Matthews Says Rising U.K. Airport Taxes May Damage Heathrow Status
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-10-27T11:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/baa-narrows-pretax-loss-for-london-airports-as-traffic-at-heathrow-rises.html
BAA Ltd. ’s London Heathrow airport
may become less competitive against other European hubs and
demand for long-haul leisure flights to the city may be hurt
because of rising U.K. tax, Chief Executive Officer  Colin Matthews  said.  Passengers travelling from the U.K. to destinations more
than 6,000 miles away will pay as much as 170 pounds ($269) in
air passenger duty, or APD, from Nov. 1, an increase of 55
percent from the current rate of 110 pounds. That compares with
a maximum tax of 40 euros ($55) levied in France, and as much as
45 euros starting on Jan. 1 in Germany.  “Our APD is in place already and it is high,” Matthews,
told reporters on conference call today in London. “The
assumption that you can just tax and tax and tax is mistaken and
it’s unhelpful.”  Heathrow, Europe’s biggest airport, competes with other
hubs such as Paris’s Charles de Gaulle and Frankfurt for
international traffic. Matthews estimated that a Chinese tourist
would pay three times as much in visa charges and taxes if
traveling through the U.K. compared with France.  BAA, a unit of Spain’s  Ferrovial SA , said Oct. 11 that
Heathrow handled 6.2 million passengers in September, an
increase of 7.6 percent and a record for that month. Traffic at
the airport is increasing as airlines add routes and reinstate
services removed as the global recession caused a slump in air
travel.  Loss Narrows  The nine-month loss at BAA’s Heathrow and Stansted airports
narrowed to 158.3 million pounds ($251 million) from 636.3
million pounds a year earlier, after charges for its pension
deficit and the sale of Gatwick weren’t repeated, the company
said today in a statement.  Sales fell 16 percent to 1.54 billion pounds after the
company sold Gatwick airport to New York-based Global
Infrastructure Partners.  BAA last year had an exceptional pension cost of 261.7
million pounds and an impairment charge on the sale of Gatwick
of 225 million pounds.  BAA sold Gatwick to GIP for 1.5 billion pounds under
pressure from the U.K. Competition Commission, which ordered a
breakup of the business. Stansted and either Glasgow or
Edinburgh airport may also have to be disposed of as part of the
process. The company is selling a terminal in Naples, Italy.  BAA also said in a separate statement today that it planned
to sell as much as 325 million pounds of bonds maturing in 2017
to refinance existing debt. BAA hired Morgan Stanley, the Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Barclays Capital, BNP Paribas, ING
Groep NV and Banco Santander S.A. to organize the sale.  Ferrovial, which bought BAA for 10 billion pounds in 2006,
said Oct. 22 it planned to sell a 10 percent stake in the
company to pay down debt and fund other projects. Ferrovial
currently holds a 55.9 percent stake in the airport operator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  