-- Banks, Investors Must End Dependence on Ratings Firms, FSB Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2010-10-28T07:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/banks-investors-must-end-dependence-on-credit-ratings-firms-fsb-says.html
Banks and investors should end their
dependence on credit ratings companies because it poses a danger
to financial stability, a group of global regulators said.  The  Financial Stability Board  said that removing links
between regulatory requirements and credit ratings would lessen
“herding and cliff effects” that may push lenders toward
insolvency when ratings are cut.  “Authorities should assess references” to credit ratings
in “laws and regulations and, wherever possible, remove them or
replace them,” the FSB said in a  report  on its  website 
yesterday.  Regulators blame over-reliance on credit ratings for
fueling the global financial crisis of 2008. Rules set by the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  forced banks to increase
the capital they held against assets that were downgraded by
ratings companies, leading to fire sales. Commitments to
investors also forced banks to post extra collateral against
securitized debt when it was downgraded.  The  Dodd-Frank Act , signed by President  Barack Obama  in
July, requires U.S. regulators to remove references to credit
ratings of securities from their rules.  The  European Commission  will publish proposals by March to
curb the reliance of regulation on credit ratings. Greece’s
rating was cut to junk status by Standard and Poor’s in April,
adding urgency to European Union plans to bail out the debt-
plagued nation.  ‘Free to Choose’  “We believe that investors should be free to choose the
benchmark -- including credit ratings -- that best meets their
needs while not mandating their use,”  Chris Atkins , a spokesman
for S&P, said in an e-mailed statement. He declined to comment
on the specific FSB proposal since he hasn’t seen it.  Central banks  should “reach their own credit judgments”
on what assets to accept from financial institutions as
collateral, the FSB said. It said also that “larger” banks
should be expected to carry out their own risk assessment of
“everything they hold.”  The Group of 20 countries set up the FSB last year, putting
it in charge of coordinating efforts to strengthen global
financial regulation in the wake of the crisis. It replaced the
Financial Stability Forum, an advisory group with no formal role
that was created in 1999 after the Asian financial crisis.  Its membership includes G-20 countries, international
standard-setters such as the  Basel committee , and international
organizations such as the World Bank and the  International
Monetary Fund .  Mario Draghi , the FSB chairman, said last week in Seoul,
Korea that reliance on credit ratings must be reduced.  Moody’s Investors Service “has long cautioned about over-
reliance on ratings in regulation,”  Michael Adler , a spokesman
for the company, said in an e-mailed statement.  The financial crisis showed that regulators need
flexibility to respond to events and not be bound by “overly
mechanical triggers” that “can inadvertently amplify and
increase risks in the system,” Adler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brusselst .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 