-- Banks Shift From Help to Hindrance for S&P 500: Chart of the Day
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/banks-shift-from-help-to-hindrance-for-s-p-500-chart-of-day.html
Financial companies are curbing
returns in the U.S. stock market as banks drop, a reversal from
the first year of the bull market when they helped propel the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the biggest gain since the 1930s.  The S&P 500 has advanced 6.3 percent in 2010. The CHART OF
THE DAY shows the gain increase to 7.4 percent when its 81
financial companies are excluded, according to data from  Howard Silverblatt , senior index analyst at S&P in New York. The
industry’s outperformance dwindled after peaking in April.  Banks such as Bank of America Corp., Morgan Stanley and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. have dropped more than 10 percent since
Dec. 31 because the industry is grappling with a lack of loan
growth and facing a regulatory overhaul, according to  Warren Koontz  of Loomis Sayles & Co. The S&P 500 Financials Index also
includes insurers and real-estate firms.  “There’s a pretty wide deviation among different
financials,” said Koontz, chief investment officer for large-
cap value stocks at Loomis Sayles in Boston, which oversees
about $150 billion. “Macroeconomics matter a lot for banks
right now because people aren’t borrowing money when the economy
isn’t robust, and they still have to work through all the bad
loans.”  The collapse of the U.S. subprime mortgage market produced
losses and writedowns totaling $1.7 trillion at financial
institutions worldwide, and drove down the S&P 500. Since the
U.S. stock market bottomed in March 2009, the S&P 500 Financials
Index has surged 133 percent, the most among 10 industries. The
group has the second-worst performance this year, rising 1.2
percent. The industry is the second-largest in the S&P 500.  The KBW Insurance Index has risen 19 percent this year and
the S&P Regional Bank Index has jumped 12 percent. Lenders such
as Bank of America, which plunged 25 percent, are facing
pressure to address home-foreclosure practices after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 25 that the central
bank is “intensively” examining procedures.  “Insurance companies have some growth and their investment
portfolios are in pretty good shape,” Koontz said. “The
smaller regional banks have bounced back strongly from the
crisis as the economy grinds its way out of the trough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 