-- AgriBank, Bank of China Trump Estimates With Third-Quarter Net
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-28T02:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/bank-of-china-profit-rises-29-as-economic-growth-bolsters-need-for-credit.html
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. and
 Bank of China Ltd.  reported third-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as the nation’s economic growth helped
bolster credit demand and curb defaults. The shares rose.  Net income for Beijing-based  Agricultural Bank  climbed 30
percent to 24.3 billion yuan ($3.6 billion) in the Beijing-based
lenders first quarterly results since completing the world’s
biggest initial public offering in August. Profit at Bank of
China, also based in Beijing, climbed to a record 27.2 billion
yuan, according to its statement yesterday.  China’s third- and fourth-largest banks expanded lending by
about 13 percent this year and reduced soured debt in an economy
poised to grow 10 percent this year. Profit growth may slow as
China reins in borrowing to curb asset prices and the banks’
regulator seeks to impose higher capital and reserve levels
after 2009’s record lending boom.  “The biggest risk in the rest of the year to the sector is
policy uncertainties, including interest rates and requirements
on capital and loan-loss charges,” said  Cheng Jiaoyi , a
Shanghai-based analyst at Qilu Securities Co. who rates Bank of
China as “neutral.” She expected the nation’s lenders to post
third-quarter profit gains of 30 percent on average.  During the past month, China announced its first interest
 rate increase  since 2007, boosted reserve-requirement ratios for
the largest banks for the fourth time this year and allowed
gains in the yuan to accelerate in a bid to prevent asset
bubbles as funds pour into the nation.  Stocks’ Performance  Shares of Agricultural Bank, which raised $22.1 billion in
its IPO, have climbed almost 25 percent since the stock’s
trading debut in Hong Kong. They rose 1 percent to 4.09 yuan as
of 10:28 a.m. local time.  Bank of China  has advanced 10 percent
this year, compared with a 6 percent advance in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index . Bank of China jumped 1.8 percent to 4.64 yuan
in Hong Kong today.  Agricultural Bank’s profit exceeded the 22 billion yuan
median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, while
Bank of China’s earnings beat a 23.9 billion yuan median
estimate of nine  analysts .  Agricultural Bank, China’s largest lender to farmers,
benefited from bigger loan spreads as it pays less on deposits
and charges more for credit in rural areas than in cities. More
than half of its almost 24,000 outlets are in less developed
rural areas, which contributed about a quarter of its overall
pretax profit.  “The cheap rural deposit base, low loan-to-deposit ratio
and the potentially improving operational efficiency of its
rural network should bolster the company’s profitability,”
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analysts  Irene Huang  and
 Desmond Cheung  wrote in an Oct. 22 note. They have a “hold”
rating on the stock.  Full-Year Target  The third-quarter earnings took it to within 15 percent of
reaching a  full-year profit  target of at least 82.9 billion yuan.  The bank had 4.77 trillion yuan of  loans outstanding  by the
end of September, an increase of 13.9 percent from the end of
last year, it said yesterday. Non-performing loans accounted for
2.08 percent of total advances as of Sept. 30, the highest among
the nation’s 16 publicly traded banks.  China’s banks as a whole provided 6.3 trillion yuan of new
loans in the first nine months, according to data from the
central bank published earlier this month. The government aims
to limit new credit at 7.5 trillion yuan for 2010.  Bank of China, led by Chairman  Xiao Gang , doled out 645
billion yuan of new loans in the first nine months, taking its
outstanding credit amount to 5.56 trillion yuan. Non-performing
loans accounted for 1.1 percent of total advances, compared with
1.2 percent three months earlier.  Fee Income  Net interest income, or the difference between revenue from
lending and the cost of deposits, rose 20 percent to 48.9
billion yuan for the bank in the  third quarter . Net fee and
commission income from issuing credit cards and distributing
insurance policies increased 13 percent to 13 billion yuan.  Bank of China posted 1.2 billion yuan in impairment losses
on assets, including provisions for potential non-performing
loans and reversal of earlier charges for overseas mortgage
investments, compared with 1.6 billion yuan a year earlier.  The lender, which in June completed a 40 billion yuan
convertible bond sale, last week won final regulatory approval
for a plan to raise as much as 60 billion yuan from a rights
offer in Shanghai and Hong Kong.  -- Luo Jun . Editors:  Chitra Somayaji ,  Ben Richardson .  To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  