-- Bank of Ireland Offers Premium on First Public Bond Offering Since April
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   H y d e
-- 2010-10-27T14:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/bank-of-ireland-offers-premium-on-first-public-bond-offering-since-april.html
Bank of Ireland Plc , the country’s
largest bank, paid a premium to sell the first public benchmark
bond by an Irish government-guaranteed lender in six months.  The bank offered 750 million euros ($1 billion) of 2 1/2-
year notes priced to yield 420 basis points more than the
benchmark mid-swap rate, equivalent to 482 basis points over
German government debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Euro-denominated financial bonds due in one to three years
and bearing a rating equivalent to the Irish government’s AA- at
Standard & Poor’s pay an average spread of 130 basis points over
government notes, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  “It is undoubtedly expensive and pricing like this
wouldn’t be sustainable in the long-run,” said  Sebastian Orsi ,
an analyst with Merrion Capital in Dublin. “But it will show if
an Irish bank can get access to the market and hopefully that,
in turn, will lead to more favorable pricing in future. The
level of demand will be interesting to see.”  Investors are demanding higher rewards to hold Irish debt
after Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said on Sept. 30 a bailout
of the nation’s financial firms may cost 50 billion euros.
Borrowings by the country’s lenders from the European Central
Bank rose 25 percent last month to 119.1 billion euros, the
Irish Central Bank said on Oct 8. The figure includes
international and domestic institutions.  While some Irish lenders, including Bank of Ireland, have
sold debt securities in private sales in recent months, no
government-guaranteed lender had issued a benchmark bond since
April, when Irish Life & Permanent Plc found buyers for 1.25
billion euros of bonds.  “It could also be viewed as positive for the sovereign if
the banking sector can be demonstrated to be normalizing,” said
Orsi.  BNP Paribas SA, Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura managed the
sale with Bank of Ireland.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Hyde  at 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  