-- Bank Bonds Lead Declines After `Shock' of Interest-Rate Rise: China Credit
-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-27T00:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/bank-bonds-lead-declines-after-shock-of-interest-rate-rise-china-credit.html
Bonds of China financial companies
have been hit the hardest in the nation’s debt market this month
as a surprise interest-rate increase overshadows brighter
earnings prospects.  The securities have lost 1.45 percent, the most since the
last series of rate boosts in July 2007, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s China Corporate Index. Bonds issued by
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., China Minsheng Banking Corp.
and China Citic Bank Corp. handed investors losses of at least
1.9 percent, the worst performances among the top 50 issuers.  “The market hasn’t fully recovered from the shock of the
latest rate increase,” said  Liu Xiaochang , a Nanjing-based bond
trader at Huatai Securities Co. “Investors are cautious and
trying to steer clear of bank bonds because most of their debt
is longer-term and the chances of further rate hikes over the
next one to two years are fairly high.”  Yields on the securities are about 50 percent higher than
the industry average worldwide, as the U.S., Europe and Japan
keep interest rates at record lows to avert recessions. The
People’s Bank of China will raise its benchmark one-year lending
rate by at least half a percentage point from 5.56 percent
before the end of next year, according to more than half of 17
economists surveyed by Bloomberg on Oct. 21.  Faster Inflation  Prospects for further rate increases jumped after China
reported 9.6 percent economic growth for the third quarter and
the fastest inflation in almost two years.  The performance of the bonds contrasts with bank shares,
which  rallied  on optimism that profits will increase. The  CSI
300/Financials Index  of shares in China has jumped 19 percent
since Sept. 30, beating the 18 percent gain in the benchmark  CSI
300 Index . Profit at 11 publicly traded banks may increase 3.9
percent to 7.4 percent, according to Morgan Stanley.  “The yields on bank bonds aren’t attractive,” said Jiang
Yongkang, head of fixed-income in Beijing at Yinhua Fund
Management Co., which oversees 68 billion yuan ($10.2 billion).
“Because there will be more gains in yields and this type of
bonds isn’t actively traded, we will stand by and watch for some
time.”  Bank bonds worldwide yield 3.57 percent on average, 1.9
percentage points less than rates on notes issued by Chinese
banks, Bank of America data show. The Global Broad Market
Financial Index, which tracks bonds issued by lenders including
France’s Credit Agricole CIB and London-based Barclays Plc,
showed a five basis point decline in yields this month.  Issuance Slowdown  China’s financial institutions issued the least amount of
new debt this month since January, with one bond sold, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. China Bohai Bank raised 1 billion
yuan ($150 million) of subordinated bonds, Bloomberg data show.  “Investors are still digesting the implications of this
rate hike and whether it’s a one-off or whether there will be
more increases,”  Shenghua Hu , Citigroup head of markets for
China, said in a phone interview from Shanghai. “I wouldn’t
expect these moves to be sustained in the long-term simply
because the Chinese economy is one of the strongest and there’s
lots of liquidity and people are looking to invest.”  Five-year  credit default swaps  on the nation’s dollar debt
declined 11 basis points to 56 basis points this month, after
sliding 19 basis points in September, according to data compiled
by CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Rate Swaps  One-year interest-rate  swaps , or the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , held at 2.37
percent yesterday, after reaching a four-month high of 2.38
percent in the past week. Five-year swaps climbed three basis
points to 3.49 percent, the highest since April and up from this
year’s low of 2.68 percent on Aug. 12, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  China government bonds due in 10 years  yield  3.68 percent,
compared with 12.2 percent in Brazil, 8.18 percent in India and
7.72 percent in Russia. China yields have surged 35 basis points
this month, widening the  gap  with U.S. Treasuries to about 105
basis points from 82 basis points, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Yields are rising after China’s consumer price index
climbed 3.6 percent in September from a year earlier, exceeding
the government’s full-year inflation target of 3 percent and
fueling expectations the central bank will add to last month’s
rate increase.  BRIC Inflation  Brazil’s inflation rate was 4.7 percent, Russia’s 7 percent
and India’s 9.9 percent, latest figures show. Brazil has boosted
borrowing costs three times this year, India has had five
increases, while Russia has lowered them four times.  China’s last cycle of rate increases began in October 2004
and led to the one-year lending  rate  advancing 2.16 percentage
points to 7.47 percent by the end of 2007, before returning to
5.31 percent in 2008 amid the global financial crisis.  Yields on bank bonds have jumped 31 basis points this month
to an average of 5.47 percent, and are poised for the biggest
increase since jumping 61 basis points to 5.86 percent in
December 2007, based on Bank of America’s China Corporate Index.  Local-currency government bonds have lost 1 percent, the
worst performance among Asia’s 10 biggest economies excluding
Japan, according to HSBC Holdings Plc indexes.  The yuan has strengthened 0.4 percent to 6.6627 per dollar
this month in Shanghai. Twelve-month non-deliverable yuan
forwards gained 1 percent to 6.4775 in Hong Kong, reflecting
bets for 2.8 percent appreciation in the coming year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  