-- Korea May Consider Capital Controls to Halt Won Gain; Bonds, Currency Drop
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-10-27T07:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/bank-of-korea-governor-says-capital-controls-can-be-useful-in-policy.html
Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said the nation may consider imposing capital controls to
slow fund inflows that have driven up the won. Bonds and the
nation’s currency fell.  Capital controls can be a “useful part of the policy
toolkit” though they create “distortions and costs,” Kim said
in the text of a prepared speech released in Seoul today. He
later said controls wouldn’t be considered until after talks
among the Group of 20 economies at a summit in Seoul next month.  The won’s 7.2 percent third-quarter gain against the dollar
was Asia’s highest, and data today showed the  economy  slowed
more than estimated in the period. Bond yields headed for their
highest close since Oct. 6 after Kim’s comments, which come as
nations from Brazil to Thailand try to slow record fund inflows
that are driving up currencies and sapping demand for exports.  “Even if a weaker dollar opens the door to more investing
in Korea, these controls will make investors less prone to buy
the country’s assets,” said  Seo Jeong Hun , chief economist at
Korea Exchange Bank in Seoul. “A lot of the money investing in
stocks and bonds is speculative. We could see that money leave
the country since these controls take aim at short-term funds.”  The won closed 1 percent lower at 1,128.24 per dollar at
the 3 p.m. close in Seoul today, the biggest fall since June 25.
The yield on the 3.75 percent bond due June 2013 rose three
basis points to 3.31 percent, according to Korea Stock Exchange.  Instability Risk  Large inflows pose risks such as excessive currency moves
and asset price bubbles, Kim said in the speech. While they can
boost growth, they can also trigger instability, he said.  No decision on capital controls has been made yet, he later
told reporters.  “All I can say now is that those instruments can be
considered but that doesn’t necessarily mean that the government
and Bank of Korea have made any decisions yet,” he said. “I
don’t think we will introduce an instrument which is not in line
with international practices.”  Nations across Asia are trying to restrain their currencies
as investors seek higher yielding emerging market assets amid
near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and Japan. Thailand said it
will remove a 15 percent tax exemption for foreigners on income
from domestic bonds, and Brazil said it would raise a tax on
foreigners’ investments in fixed-income securities to 6 percent.  Bond Tax  If a tax is imposed on foreigners’ holdings of South
Korean bonds, that “will deter inflows into the bond market for
a long time,” said  Christian Carrillo , senior rates strategist
at Societe Generale SA in Tokyo.  South Korea’s gross domestic product advanced 0.7 percent
in the third quarter from the previous three months, when it
gained 1.4 percent, the central bank said in Seoul today. That
was less than the 0.8 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 10 economists. From a year earlier, GDP rose 4.5
percent.  The won has risen about 28 percent over the last two years,
and further gains may threaten the export competitiveness of
companies such as Samsung Electronics Co., Asia’s biggest maker
of semiconductors flat screens and mobile phones.  Finance chiefs from the G-20 pledged to refrain from
“competitive devaluation” to ease fears of a trade war and
help curb volatility in capital flows after meeting in South
Korea last week.  Significant Implication  “Such a statement has a significant policy implication for
a country like Korea,” Kim said. Sound economic policies are
the first line of defense in reducing vulnerability to external
shocks, he said.  South Korea’s government is discussing several steps to
control capital flows, Vice Finance Minister  Yim Jong Yong  said
this month. The nation’s regulators have already begun an audit
of banks handling foreign-currency derivatives to tackle
speculation.  “We studied several possible measures such as a Tobin tax,
bank tax, leverage controls and then chose the derivatives
limits in June,” Yim told reporters in Gwacheon on Oct. 21.
“We’re now discussing all of these measures, but nothing has
been decided yet.” A Tobin tax is applied to financial
transactions.  The authorities will act when “herd behavior” causes
sudden moves in the currency, Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun 
said at a parliamentary audit this month.  The won has surged because of expectations of a second
round of monetary easing by the U.S., Kim said on Oct. 18. The
G-20 pledge has reduced “external uncertainties” affecting
interest-rate policy, he said on Oct. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eunkyung Seo  in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  