-- Barry Zito Is $18.5 Million Liability for Giants as World Series Begins
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-10-27T17:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/barry-zito-is-18-5-million-liability-for-giants-as-world-series-begins.html
Barry Zito , once the highest-paid
pitcher in Major League Baseball, has turned into an $18.5
million liability for the San Francisco Giants as they open the
World Series tonight against the Texas Rangers.  Zito, 32, who accounted for almost 19 percent of the team’s
$98.6 million payroll this season, won’t be on the roster for
the third straight playoff series, the Giants announced today.  Zito’s salary this year is $3.5 million more than that of
the Giants’ four-man starting rotation of  Tim Lincecum ,
 Matt Cain ,  Jonathan Sanchez  and  Madison Bumgarner  -- who
combined to make about $15 million this season.  “We’ve made our mistakes, we’ll make more mistakes,”
Giants Managing General Partner  Bill Neukom  said yesterday in an
interview at his AT&T Park office. “We haven’t had the baseball
return we wanted on that.”  Zito hasn’t had a winning season since he arrived in San
Francisco, going 40-57 in four years. He was 9-14 this season
and also was left off the 25-man roster for playoff series wins
against the Atlanta Braves and Philadelphia Phillies.  The left-hander said yesterday in an interview that, if
left off the roster, he would spend the World Series cheering on
his teammates.  “You’ve got to be professional, you have to put your
personal things aside and do what you can to help the team,”
Zito said. “Moping around doesn’t help anyone.”  $126 Million Contract  Zito, who won the 2002 Cy Young Award as the best pitcher
in the American League with a 23-5 record for the
Oakland Athletics, received the biggest contract for a pitcher
in baseball history at the time when he signed a $126 million,
seven-year free-agent pact with the Giants before the 2007
season. The deal runs through 2013.  CC Sabathia  of the New York Yankees ($161 million for seven
years starting in 2009) and  Johan Santana  of the New York Mets
($137.5 million for six years starting in 2008) have since
surpassed Zito’s contract.  Neukom said Zito’s signing was supposed to help the Giants
move past the era in which  Barry Bonds , the major league career
home run record holder, was the team leader. Bonds’s last year
with the team was 2007.  “All of us didn’t do a good enough job at making that
transition,” Neukom said. “We signed (Zito) to bridge that
gap.”  Home-Grown Starters  The Giants’ four World Series starters were drafted by the
team and came up through its minor-league system -- the first
time a team has used a quartet of home-grown starters in the
World Series since the 1986 Boston Red Sox had  Roger Clemens ,
Bruce Hurst, Dennis “Oil Can” Boyd and  Al Nipper .  “Everyone knows we kind of built around pitching and just
more pitching on top of that,” Lincecum said yesterday in a
news conference. “We built the starting rotation around guys
who came up through the system and just understood it.”  Lincecum, who has won the past two Cy Young Awards as the
National League’s best pitcher, will start tonight’s game. The
Texas starter will be 2008 American League Cy Young winner  Cliff Lee , who has a 7-0 postseason record with an earned run average
of 1.26.  Game 2 is set for tomorrow night in San Francisco,
weather permitting. The National Weather Service predicts a 40
percent chance of rain in the afternoon and a 50 percent chance
at night. The game is scheduled to start at 4:57 p.m. local
time.  Rangers Are Favored  Matt Cain is scheduled to start for the Giants in Game 2
against the Rangers’  C.J. Wilson . An off-day is scheduled for
Oct. 29 before the best-of-seven series shifts to Rangers
Ballpark in Arlington, Texas.  The Rangers, playing in the World Series for the first time
in the franchise’s 50-year history, are the 5-6 favorite at the
Las Vegas Hilton to win the championship. They’ve never won in
nine games at AT&T Park and haven’t defeated the Giants in seven
games overall dating to 2001.  The Giants haven’t won the World Series since 1954, when
they were based in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  at AT&T Park in San Francisco at 
1397 or  rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  