-- Barrick Gold, Goldcorp, Potash Corp.: Canadian Equity Preview
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-10-28T12:59:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/barrick-gold-goldcorp-potash-corp-canadian-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have  unusual  moves in  Canadian trading .  Agnico-Eagles Mines Ltd.  (AEM CT): Canada’s fifth-largest
gold producer said it earned 46 cents a share in the third
quarter, excluding certain items, missing the average of analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg survey by 6.9 percent.  Barrick Gold Corp.  (ABX CT): The world’s largest gold
producer reported third-quarter profit of 83 cents a share,
beating the average of 22 analyst estimates by 9.8 percent,
excluding certain items.  Cenovus Energy Inc.  (CVE CT): Canada’s fifth-biggest energy
company by market value said it earned 21 cents a share in the
third quarter, missing the average of 16 analyst estimates by 27
percent, excluding certain items.  Goldcorp Inc.  (G CT): The world’s second-biggest gold
producer by market value doubled its monthly dividend to 3 cents
a share, payable to shareholders of record as of Nov. 12.  Nexen Inc.  (NXY CT): The oil and gas producer with
operations on five continents reported a third-quarter loss of
10 cents a share, excluding certain items. Analysts had forecast
a profit of 33 cents a share, according to the average of 14
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  (POT CT): The world’s
largest fertilizer producer by market value said it earned $1.32
a share in the third quarter, surpassing the average of 25
analyst estimates by 14 percent, excluding certain items. The
company also announced profit forecasts for 2010 and 2011 that
topped analyst estimates.  Research In Motion Inc.  (RIM CT): The BlackBerry maker had
its rating cut to “market perform” from “outperform” by
 Ittai Kidron , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  