-- BAT Sees Cigarette Shipment Decline on Pakistan Floods
-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 2010-10-27T07:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/bat-nine-month-shipments-decline-as-consumers-cut-spending-on-cigarettes.html
British American Tobacco Plc ,
Europe’s largest cigarette maker, said shipments will decline in
2010 as Pakistan’s worst flooding snares distribution in that
market.  BAT expects full-year volume excluding acquisitions and
divestments to drop about 3 percent, maintaining the rate of the
first nine months,  Michael Prideaux , director of corporate and
regulatory affairs for the London-based company, said by
telephone. BAT said in July it expected volumes to slow their
decline in the second half.  “There’s an area the size of Italy that’s still
underwater,” Prideaux said. “That does have an impact on
distribution. Without Pakistan, I think I’d be more positive.”  BAT gets 6 percent of its volume from Pakistan, according
to an estimate by Evolution Securities. One-fifth of the country
was hit by the nation’s worst flooding ever in July. BAT said
shipments are also declining as consumers switch to counterfeit
and smuggled cigarettes in Romania, Turkey and South Africa.  BAT  fell 44.5 pence, or 1.8 percent, to 2,393.5 pence at
8:53 a.m. in London trading.  The maker of Kent and Lucky Strike cigarettes also said
it’s started talks with worker representatives to close a
factory in Lecce, Italy, and cut 400 jobs to reduce costs.  The quantity of cigarettes sold in the nine months ended
Sept. 30 dropped 1 percent to 526 billion. The median analyst
 estimate  was 529 billion, according to a survey by Bloomberg
News. BAT’s 3 percent decline in nine-month organic volume was
lower than the median estimate for a 2.5 percent drop.  Cheaper Brands  Consumers are trading down to cheaper brands, though the
company has boosted revenue through price increases, BAT said.  “The recession’s impact on consumers is still with us and
shows no signs of abating,” Chief Executive Officer  Paul Adams 
said in the statement.  BAT said it has continued to widen its operating margin by
cutting costs, without elaborating. “We are on track for
another year of good earnings growth,” Adams said.  Volumes of Kent, Lucky Strike, Dunhill and Pall Mall, BAT’s
main global brands, rose 8 percent in the period. That rate will
probably be closer to 6 percent for the full year, Prideaux
said, adding that third-quarter shipments were boosted as
consumers hoarded cigarettes in Japan ahead of a tax increase.  Tobacco companies  will be able to increase sales in coming
years as they still have pricing power, market research company
Euromonitor said Sept. 21, predicting 2 percent annual growth in
cigarette volume worldwide in the next five years.  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc, the maker of Davidoff
cigarettes, said Sept. 22 it expected net revenue from tobacco
to rise about 3 percent in the year through September as price
increases offset a shipment decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 