-- Bay Area Toll Agency Cuts Build America Costs 17% in 4 Months: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/bay-area-toll-agency-cuts-build-america-costs-17-in-4-months-muni-credit.html
San Francisco’s  Bay Area Toll
Authority , the bridge operator that sold $1.5 billion in Build
America Bonds four months ago, is offering $400 million of the
taxable debt amid a 17 percent drop in relative borrowing costs.  The extra yield that investors demand for Build America
Bonds over 30-year Treasuries has fallen an average 4 percent in
the same period, according to a  Wells Fargo  index. The so-called
spread was 180 basis points Oct. 25, down from 188 basis points
on June 24, the date of the agency’s previous sale. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  While the Oakland-based agency’s borrowing costs have
declined faster than the overall market, increased supply may
force the authority to concede more yield to attract investors,
said  Alan Schankel , managing director of fixed-income research
at Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC. About $4.2
billion of Build Americas are being sold this week, the most
since April 24, 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The market is getting weaker,” Schankel said. “The name
is a good name but the timing is going to challenge it.”  The authority, which finances bridge construction and
renovation using tolls from seven state-owned spans around San
Francisco, sold 30-year Build Americas priced to yield 6.92
percent on June 24, or about 288 basis points above 30-year
Treasuries. The spread narrowed to 240 basis points yesterday,
Bloomberg data show.  Credit Rating  Tomorrow’s offering, backed by a subordinate lien on toll
revenue, is rated A1 by Moody’s Investors Service and A+ by
Standard & Poor’s, both fifth-highest. Senior bonds are ranked
AA by S&P, third-highest, and one level lower by Moody’s and
Fitch Ratings, at Aa3 and AA-. Fitch doesn’t grade the junior
debt.  In addition to the federally subsidized bonds, the
authority is selling $400 million in tax-exempts, its first such
sale since August 2009, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds from the
two offerings will shore up the debt-service reserve fund and
finance the east span replacement of the 74-year-old San
Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge, according to preliminary offering
documents.  When completed, it will be the world’s longest single-tower
self-anchored suspension bridge, according to the documents. As
of June 30, about $4.3 billion has been spent on the project,
whose estimated cost is $6.3 billion.  On Time, On Budget  The span is scheduled to open to traffic in 2013, and the
project remains on time and on budget, said  Brian Mayhew , chief
financial officer of the authority.  “We’ve had the same projected cost and timeline since
2005,” he said. “We’ve worked very hard to keep things under
control.”  In contrast, Boston’s Big Dig, the most expensive public-
works project in U.S. history, was estimated to cost $5 billion
when ground was broken. It tripled to $14.8 billion after
overruns and structural problems.  Build America Bonds are the fastest-growing part of the
$2.8 trillion U.S. municipal debt market. They were first sold
in April 2009 as part of the economic-stimulus package and
include a 35 percent federal subsidy on interest-rate costs.
Legislation introduced by Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Democrat, would extend the program -- set to expire
Dec. 31 -- by one year with the subsidy reduced to 32 percent.
Previous extension attempts stalled in Congress.  This week’s sale takes the total Build Americas issued by
the authority to $3.2 billion in the past 12 months, Bloomberg
data show. The name recognition in the market has helped attract
investors, said Mayhew, adding that this will be the agency’s
final Build America sale in 2010.  While the Bay Area Toll Authority has marketed the offer in
Europe and Asia, Mayhew is unsure about the reception.  “It’s a hard to know,” he said. “People are gracious and
polite in meetings, but until there’s money on the line no one
knows what’s going to happen.”  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  CONNECTICUT , the most indebted U.S. state per capita, plans
to sell $300 million in tax-exempts and $400 million in Build
Americas backed by revenue from transportation-related taxes
today. The special obligations are rated Aa3 by Moody’s, fourth-
highest, and AA by Fitch, one level higher. Citigroup Inc. will
lead underwriters marketing the issue to investors. (Updated
Oct. 27)  DALLAS-FORT WORTH INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, the world’s
 eighth-busiest  by passenger traffic, plans to sell $301 million
in a tax-exempt deal as soon as this week to finance its
improvement program. The revenue-backed bonds are rated A1 by
Moody’s, fifth-highest. Underwriters led by Jefferies Group Inc.
will market the securities. (Added Oct. 25)  ATLANTA, home to the world’s busiest airport with 88
million passengers a year, is selling about $590 million in tax-
exempts to help finance a new terminal at  Hartsfield-Jackson
Atlanta International Airport . About $176 million of the bonds
will be backed by a senior lien on general airport revenue,
rated A+ by Fitch, fifth-highest, with about $414 million
secured by a “passenger facility” charge and a subordinate
lien on airport revenue, rated A, sixth-highest. Underwriters
led by JPMorgan Chase & Co. will market the issue to investors.
(Added Oct. 27)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 