-- BBVA Profit Declines 17% on Lower Lending Revenue
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2010-10-27T15:54:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/bbva-posts-nine-month-profit-of-5-1-billion-matching-analysts-estimates.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA ,
Spain’s second-biggest bank, said third-quarter profit declined
17 percent because of higher costs and lower lending revenue in
its home market.  Net income  fell to 1.14 billion euros ($1.57 billion) from
1.38 billion euros a year earlier, the Bilbao-based lender said
in a filing to regulators today. The shares dropped as earnings
missed the 1.19 billion-euro average  estimate  of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  BBVA, which relies on Spain for about 60 percent of its
 lending , faces flagging credit demand, a squeeze on interest
income and higher costs for funding even as the bank reaffirmed
that its bad loans have now peaked. Profit from Spain and
Portugal fell 15 percent in the quarter, offsetting a 5.1
percent gain in earnings in constant currency terms from Mexico,
the bank’s second-biggest market.  “The outlook for margins in Spain is pretty bleak and
pressure on that line is going to continue for some time yet,”
said  Claire Kane , an analyst at MF Global in London, who rates
BBVA “buy.” “Spain isn’t great but the rest of the business,
especially Mexico, is recovering well and that’s what will drive
the earnings recovery.”  Funding Costs  BBVA , led by Chairman  Francisco Gonzalez , fell 2.5 percent
to 9.39 euros in Madrid trading, extending this year’s drop to
26 percent and valuing the lender at 35.2 billion euros. Larger
rival Banco Santander SA, which reports third-quarter profit
tomorrow, has declined 20 percent.  Net interest income fell 5.5 percent to 3.25 billion euros,
crimped by the higher cost of funding and the impact of lower
interest rates on lending yields, the bank said. Pressure on
margins may continue through the first half of next year,
President and Chief Operating Officer  Angel Cano  said on a
webcast for analysts today.  Operating costs jumped 12 percent to 2.26 billion euros as
the company invested in items such as 903 new teller machines
and sponsorship of the NBA basketball league in the U.S., it
said.  Customer deposits rose 2.6 percent from a year ago to 255.8
billion euros as the bank added 9 billion euros of funds in its
home market in the third quarter, BBVA said. Gross lending rose
3.6 percent even as lending in Spain slid 0.2 percent from the
end of June.  Dividend Outlook  BBVA reported core capital of 8.2 percent at the end of
September, compared with 8.1 percent three months earlier. The
bank doesn’t expect its dividend payment to drop this year and
doesn’t rule out increasing the  payout  next year or paying some
of it in shares, Cano said.  The bank, which wrote down goodwill and assumed loan losses
to the value of 1.05 billion euros in the fourth quarter of
2009, doesn’t expect to book any costs in the same period this
year that would have a major impact on full-year profit, Cano
said.  BBVA said Oct. 21 it was in talks to acquire a stake in
Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS, a Turkish lender partly owned by
General Electric Co.  The acquisition would trigger a share sale to replenish
capital, according to analysts including  Arturo de Frias  of
Evolution Securities Ltd. Any investment the bank makes would
have to be on the basis that it would have a “clear path”
toward taking control, Cano said.  Bad loans as a proportion of total lending fell to 4.1
percent from 4.2 percent in June as “doubtful” assets on
BBVA’s books dropped to 15.6 billion euros from 16.1 billion
euros at the end of June, the bank said.  Bad Loans  Loans newly classified as being in default rose to 3.05
billion euros in the quarter from 3.04 billion euros in the
prior three months, BBVA said. While defaults keep rising at
other Spanish lenders, the bank considers that its bad loans
have peaked, Cano said.  The lender used 233 million euros in gains from the sale of
property to bolster its loan-loss reserves. It also allocated
another 198 million euros to provisions to cover the impact of
new central bank rules requiring Spanish banks to more quickly
account for the impairment of assets on their books.  Profit  from Spain and Portugal fell to 501 million euros,
from 586 million euros a year ago, the bank said. Earnings from
Mexico rose to 451 million euros from 429 million euros.  Earnings from South America climbed to 239 million euros
from 207 million euros a year earlier as profit at its U.S. unit
advanced to 81 million euros from 45 million euros. Earnings
from wholesale banking and asset management rose to 198 million
euros from 191 million euros.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  