-- Berkshire Buys Life Reinsurance Unit From Sun Life
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2010-10-27T18:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/berkshire-acquires-unit-from-canada-s-sun-life-as-buffett-adds-reinsurance.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  agreed to
buy a business backstopping life insurance policies from  Sun
Life Financial Inc.  as Chairman  Warren Buffett  increases bets on
reinsurance.  The business has about 70 employees in Canada, the U.S. and
Ireland, with life insurance in force of about C$113 billion
($109 billion), according to a statement today from Toronto-
based Sun Life.  Buffett, who oversees the largest reinsurer in the U.S.,
has assumed risks from XL Group Plc and  CNA Financial Corp.  as
carriers have moved to simplify or limit liabilities. Buffett,
80, has also wagered on the market through stock picks. He built
a stake of more than 10 percent in Munich Re, the world’s
biggest reinsurer. Last year, Buffett injected $2.7 billion into
No. 2 Swiss Reinsurance Co.  “This transaction releases capital which can be put to
work in other businesses,” Sun Life Chief Executive Officer
 Donald Stewart  said in the statement. “Our reinsurance business
is profitable, but it is not a growth area for Sun Life.”  Berkshire fell $2,812, or 2.3 percent, to $120,643 at 1:29
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Sun Life
slipped 15 cents to C$27.88 on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  Sun Life, Canada’s third-largest insurer, is focusing its
main businesses, which include life insurance in Canada, the
U.S. and Asia and Boston-based money manager MFS Investment
Management. The company is scheduled to release third-quarter
results Nov. 3.  Investment Returns  Berkshire agreed in July to assume liabilities tied to
asbestos and pollution claims from Chicago-based CNA in exchange
for a $2 billion fee. Berkshire’s reinsurance businesses
provides premium revenue, which Buffett uses to buy stocks and
bonds and earn investment returns. Berkshire this week announced
the hiring of hedge-fund manager  Todd Combs  to help oversee the
company’s portfolio.  Sun Life’s deal with Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire, where
Buffett is also CEO, is expected to be completed Dec. 31,
according to the statement. Terms weren’t disclosed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  