-- Buffett's Combs Pick Means Defense Beats Offense at Berkshire
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/berkshire-picking-hedge-fund-manager-combs-shows-buffett-prefers-defense.html
Warren Buffett ’s selection of
little-known hedge-fund manager  Todd Combs  to help oversee
investments at  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  shows how the billionaire
values limiting losses when markets decline.  “Buffett wasn’t looking for an exciting star,” said  Vidak Radonjic , managing partner at Beryl Consulting Group LLC, which
advises clients on investing in hedge funds. “He’s chosen
someone with a low profile who has the skills to help preserve
capital by managing downside risk. Combs was able to navigate a
difficult 2008 when other hedge fund managers didn’t.”  Combs, 39, who ran his own $400 million hedge fund Castle
Point Capital Management LLC, lost 5.7 percent in 2008,
according to an investor letter, while the industry  slumped  a
record 19 percent, Hedge Fund Research Inc. data show. Buffett,
80, who built a  stock portfolio  valued at more than $50 billion
through four decades, has said Berkshire’s advantage over the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is biggest when the benchmark falls.  “Though we have lagged the S&P in some years that were
positive for the market, we have consistently done better than
the S&P in the eleven years during which it delivered negative
results,” he said in a  letter  to shareholders this year. “Our
defense has been better than our offense.”  Combs’s Castle Point had a “value-oriented” investment
strategy, betting on and against financial services stocks in
wagers that “play out over several years,” according to the
monthly letter.  ‘Spread-Sheet Guy’  “He was a huge spread-sheet guy,” said  Scott Sipprelle ,
who hired Combs about eight years ago at Copper Arch Capital LLC
and now runs Westland Ventures, a Princeton, New Jersey-based
investment firm. “He had a very detailed, analytical approach.
He was a hard worker but easygoing at the same time, not one of
those intense, over-the-top maniac types.” Sipprelle is running
for the U.S. House of Representatives as a Republican.  Combs started Castle Point in 2005 with backing from  Stone
Point Capital , the private-equity firm whose chairman is  Stephen Friedman , a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  executive. Friedman
was chairman of the board at the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York before resigning last year.  “One of the central objectives with respect to each of our
investments is to identify all relevant risks,” Combs said in
an Oct. 19 letter to investors touting  Western Union Co. , the
world’s biggest money-transfer business. “If we can find
quality businesses at attractive risk-adjusted valuations, then
we should be able to meet our investment objectives over time.”  ‘Genetically Programmed’  Buffett has said his preferred time to hold a stock is
“forever” and built stakes in companies such as  Wells Fargo &
Co. , American Express Co., Coca-Cola Co. and Kraft Foods Inc.
that he believes have durable advantages over competitors.
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire was looking for managers
“ genetically programmed ” to avoid large risks, Buffett wrote
in 2007 when he discussed the search for an investment manager
to assume some of his duties.  Castle Point has lost about 4 percent this year through
September, after gaining 6.2 percent last year, according to the
letter. The Greenwich Connecticut-based fund returned 19 percent
in 2007 and 14 percent the previous year.  Hedge funds have returned 4.8 percent this year through
Sept. 30 and 20 percent in 2009, according to Chicago-based
Hedge Fund Research. The industry climbed about 10 percent in
2007 and 13 percent in 2006, according to the research firm.  “He’s not one of those hedge fund managers who’s shot the
lights out with stellar returns,” said  Tom Russo , a partner at
Gardner Russo & Gardner in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, who owns
Berkshire shares. “But he has done a great job at preserving
capital over the long term. He’s not trapped by his own
success.”  Castle Point returned 33 percent from November 2005 through
Sept. 30, according to a company document, compared with a 5
percent gain for the  S&P 500 , including reinvested dividends.  MasterCard, Western Union  Castle Point’s largest holdings as of Sept. 30 included
U.S. Bancorp, MasterCard Inc., Western Union and  Chubb Corp. ,
the firm said. Berkshire has the third-largest holding of U.S.
Bancorp, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Combs will handle a “significant portion” of Berkshire’s
portfolio, the company said in an Oct. 25 statement without
providing specifics. Berkshire also has a fixed income portfolio
valued at more than $30 billion. Buffett and Combs didn’t
respond to messages seeking comment.  Before starting his own firm, Combs oversaw financial-
services investments at Copper Arch, the New York-based hedge
fund started by Sipprelle, a former  Morgan Stanley  managing
director. The fund was shuttered in 2007.  Combs worked at auto-insurer  Progressive Corp.  from 1996 to
2000 as a pricing analyst and before that he spent three years
working for the Florida banking regulator, according to
information sent to investors.  Work Ethic  Combs received an undergraduate degree from Florida State
University and a master’s of business administration from
Columbia University, where Buffett studied.  Buffett, chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire,
is seeking candidates to take over his duties when he steps
away. He said in 2006 that hedge funds, which he described as
“hyper-helpers,” overcharge investors.  “Particularly expensive is the recent pandemic of profit
arrangements under which Helpers receive large portions of the
winnings when they are smart or lucky,” he said in an annual
 letter .  “He’s not tarring every hedge fund manager with the same
brush,” said  David Kass , finance professor at the University of
Maryland. “Warren has said that he hires people who he likes,
those that share his same work ethic and value system. They love
their work more than the money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  