-- Billionaire Mallya Razes Bangalore Home for $4 Million Condos
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2010-10-28T05:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/billionaire-mallya-razes-bangalore-ancestral-home-for-luxury-apartments.html
Indian billionaire  Vijay Mallya ,
owner of the world’s  second-largest  liquor company, is razing
his ancestral home in Bangalore to build $4 million apartments
as the number of people rich enough to afford them grows.  United Breweries Holdings Ltd. , which owns controlling
stakes in Mallya’s liquor, beer and airline units, and Prestige
Estates Projects Ltd. are jointly developing the 4.5 acre (1.8
hectare) plot in the south Indian technology hub, home to  Google
Inc. ,  Microsoft Corp.  and  Infosys Technologies Ltd.  Construction
will start in December,  Irfan Razack , chairman of Prestige, said
yesterday after the developer’s shares debuted.  Demand for luxury apartments in India is rising as the
biggest  rally  in stocks in 18 years in 2009 boosted the ranks of
the affluent in the third-fastest growing major economy.  Mukesh Ambani , India’s richest individual, will move into a 27-story
skyscraper in south Mumbai that cost $2 billion to build and is
the world’s most expensive home, according to Forbes Magazine.  “There is now considerable demand for high-end apartments
in Bangalore, and it is led by the senior management class,
corporate houses, non-resident Indian businessmen and high-net-
worth individuals,” said  Anuj Puri , Mumbai-based chairman of
Jones Lang LaSalle Meghraj, the local unit of the world’s
second-largest commercial property broker.  The combined net worth of the nation’s 100 wealthiest
people climbed to an all-time high of $300 billion this year,
equivalent to a quarter of the country’s gross domestic product,
according to Forbes. India’s wealthy may almost double their
assets to $6.4 trillion over the next five years as economic
growth swells their ranks, Credit Suisse Group AG said in its
global wealth report released Oct. 8.  Bangalore Prices  V. Shashikanth, chief executive officer at UB Global, in
charge of executing the Kingfisher Towers project, referred all
media inquiries to Bangalore-based Prestige.  The 8,321-square-foot, four-bedroom units at Mallya’s
Kingfisher Towers, named after India’s best-selling beer, owned
by the liquor baron, will cost at least $3.7 million, said
Razack, based on sales starting at more than 20,000 rupees a
square foot. Sale of apartments will commence in the next couple
of months, he said.  Homes in central  Bangalore  cost about 11,500 rupees a
square foot in the quarter ended June, about 21 percent below
the 14,500 rupees a square foot in the first three months of
2008, according to data from property broker Colliers
International. Prices dropped by about 30 percent during the
economic slowdown in the second quarter of 2009, Colliers said
in its report.  Private Elevators  Bangalore , 623 miles south of Mumbai, had a 13 percent
increase in transactions in the September quarter compared with
the three months ended June, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a note
to clients dated Oct. 6.  “Interest in the premium segment has gained traction,”
said Jones Lang LaSalle’s Puri. “The first three months of 2010
witnessed a surge in residential activity across all locations
of Bangalore.”  Mallya, who with a net worth of $1.45 billion ranked 44 in
the Forbes list of India’s richest in September, lives in a
bungalow on the site he inherited from his father. The three
bungalows on the land will be razed to make way for the tower,
Bangalore-based Razack said in an interview in Mumbai yesterday.  Kingfisher Towers will comprise 72 apartments with Mallya
retaining 60,000 square feet on the ground floor plus one other
level, Razack said. Mallya will have a separate entrance and
private elevators to his apartment, Razack said.  The tower with three wings will boast a helipad, two
swimming pools, squash courts, spa and concierge services.  “This is a landmark development,” said Razack. “It’s one
of its kind the city has seen or will ever see.”  Hand-Delivered Invitations  New projects have come onto the market in Bangalore in the
second quarter of 2010, Colliers said in its quarterly  India
market report  in July. Demand for premium residential property
increased because of an influx of expatriates coming to work in
India’s technology hub, the report showed.  “Bangalore until two years ago was purely sold on location
without any consideration for product needs or design,” Mumbai-
based Anand Narayan, national director of residential agency at
the Indian unit of real-estate brokerage Knight Frank LLP, said
in an interview. “If the location was good it was expensive.
Now that’s changing. Some developers are building exclusive
products which come at a premium just like the Gucci limited-
edition bags.”  Skyline Constructions & Holdings Pvt.  will sell apartments
in its Skyline Villa Maria in the city’s center for as much as
$5 million by hand-delivered invitations that cost 12,000 rupees
each to print, said Bangalore-based Naresh Dandapat, regional
director-south at Knight Frank, the sole marketing agent for
five of the six apartments on sale at Villa Maria.  Van Gogh’s Garden  The Villa Maria flats, which will be completed in 18 months,
range in size from 6,000 square feet to 11,000 square feet,
Dandapat said.  Bangalore-based Total Environment Building Systems Pvt. is
selling the 17 duplex apartments and penthouses that range from
4,000 square feet to 9,000 square feet and cost as much as $5
million at its Van Gogh’s Garden development.  Mallya’s company holds a 55 percent stake in Kingfisher
Towers, with the balance being held by Prestige. The development
will have a saleable area of 490,838 square feet and is expected
to be ready in three-and-a-half years, Razack said.  Brewery Site  The 33-floor tower is being built on a road named after the
liquor baron’s father  Vittal Mallya , who started the business
that 54-year-old Mallya has expanded to include brands such as
Whyte & Mackay, the 166-year-old Scottish whisky.  United Spirits Ltd.  reported sales of 100 million cases for
the year ended March 31 to become the world’s second-largest
spirits company by volume, according to a company April
statement, dislodging Paris-based  Pernod Ricard SA . Diageo Plc
of London is the world’s largest spirits maker.  Prestige is refurbishing a floor at the adjoining  Oakwood 
Premier Prestige Bangalore, a serviced apartment in the UB City
development, for Mallya and his family to move into until the
tower is ready, Razack said.  Mallya’s family owned about 15 acres of land with a brewery,
the family’s home, staff quarters and offices on it. UB City, a
1.1 million-square-foot  project  of luxury retail, commercial and
serviced apartments also developed by United Breweries and
Prestige, was built on the site of the former brewery.  Prestige  rose on its debut in Mumbai yesterday after
raising 12 billion rupees in an initial public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pooja Thakur  in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 Apapuc1@bloomberg.net  