-- Bin Laden Warns France Over Backing of U.S., Ban on Veils
-- B y   I n a l   E r s a n
-- 2010-10-27T15:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/bin-laden-recording-warns-france-over-support-for-u-s-policies-veil-ban.html
Osama bin Laden , the Saudi-born
leader of al-Qaeda, warned France that its security is at risk
if it continued to support U.S. policies toward Muslim-majority
countries and prevent Muslim women from wearing veils.  “The equation is simple and easy: As you kill you shall be
killed, as you take hostages you shall be taken hostage, and as
you infringe on our security we shall infringe on your
security,” said the man who tops a U.S. most wanted list of
fugitives, in a recording aired by  Al Jazeera  television today.  Bin Laden  has said his militant group carried out the Sept.
11, 2001, aircraft attacks in which around 3,000 people were
killed, and he commended bombings in the U.K. and Spain. Bin
Laden often says al-Qaeda seeks to eject non-Muslim forces from
Islamic countries and punish nations that support Israel or
fight Muslims and steal their wealth.  The Sept. 11 attacks triggered the 2001 U.S.-led invasion
of Afghanistan, whose Taliban leaders at the time refused to
hand bin Laden over to the U.S. for trial. France, an ally of
the U.S. and member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization,
has about 3,750 troops in Afghanistan.  “How is it fair that you take part in occupying our
countries and you back the Americans in killing our women and
children and then you wish to live in security and safety?” bin
Laden asked.  He also criticized France for banning facial veils.  “If you have acted unjustly and thought it was right to
prevent our free women from wearing headdresses, is it not our
right to oust your men by striking their necks.”  Bin Laden said the abduction last month of French citizens
in the west African nation of Niger was to punish France for its
“unjust” policies toward Muslims.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inal Ersan  in Dubai at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhmade@bloomberg.net  