-- Blockbuster, Gas City, Awal, Tousa: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-10-27T12:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/blockbuster-tousa-truvo-urban-brands-connector-icahn-mgm-bankruptcy.html
  Blockbuster Inc . faces off in court
today against a creditor who claims the movie-rental chain’s
bankruptcy lawyers, Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP, are disqualified
to serve as company counsel.  The creditor, Lyme Regis Partners LLC, contends that New
York-based Weil fails the so-called disinterestedness test
because the firm simultaneously represents movie companies in
unrelated matters. Lyme calculates that Weil represents almost
370 Blockbuster creditors in unrelated matters.  In addition to countering Lyme’s argument, Weil responded
by saying that the “deeply subordinated” creditor is embarking
on a “scorched-earth strategy.” The papers filed by Weil
called Lyme a “distressed debt trader” that “made a bad
investment by purchasing not only unsecured but also
contractually subordinated debt.”  The dispute will be resolved today in court by U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Burton R. Lifland. The most senior bankruptcy
judge in  Manhattan , Lifland has encountered cases before when a
bankrupt company’s lawyers represent creditors in unrelated
matters.  At today’s hearing, Blockbuster will be looking for final
approval of financing and final authorization to pay movie
companies for debt owed before the Chapter 11 filing.  Before the Sept. 23 Chapter 11 filing, Blockbuster
negotiated a reorganization plan with holders of 80 percent of
the senior notes. The plan would give the new stock to holders
of the $630 million in 11.75 percent senior-secured notes.
General unsecured creditors would have warrants for 3 percent of
the stock. Holders of the $300 million in 9 percent subordinated
notes wouldn’t receive anything.  Dallas-based Blockbuster has 5,600 stores, including 3,300
in the U.S., with the remainder abroad. Among the U.S. stores,
3,000 are owned and the rest are franchised.  The petition listed assets of $1.02 billion against debt of
$1.47 billion. Blockbuster estimated that it owes $57 million in
accounts payable in addition to the secured and subordinated
notes.  The case is In re Blockbuster Inc., 10-14997, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  New Filings  Truck-Stop Operator Gas City Files for January Sale  Gas City Ltd. , the owner and operator of 51 gasoline
stations, truck stops and convenience stores, filed a Chapter 11
petition late yesterday in  Chicago  intending to auction the
business on Jan. 21.  Gas City’s stores, which include 10 large truck stops, are
in  Illinois ,  Indiana ,  Florida  and  Arizona . Most are owned by an
affiliated trust that also filed in Chapter 11. The trust leases
the stores to Gas City.  Gas City, based in Frankfort, Illinois, owes $29.6 million
to secured lender Bank of America NA. The trust owes another
$225 million on mortgages. Gas City guaranteed $145 million of
the mortgage debt, court papers say.  Bank of American accelerated the secured debt before the
Chapter 11 filing, and the mortgages were in default. The trust
is the William J. McEnery Revocable Trust.  Gas City filed a motion asking the bankruptcy judge to set
up auction and sale procedures calling for the initial
submission of bids by Jan. 14, followed by an auction on Jan. 21
and a hearing on Jan. 31 to approve the sale. Gas City said it
would sell the business to one or more buyers.  Gas City says it owes $10 million for fuel plus $2.5
million to suppliers of the convenience stores. In addition,
$2.5 million is owing to creditors who delivered goods within 20
days of bankruptcy and are therefore entitled to full payment.  The petition says assets are less than $100 million while
debt exceeds $100 million.  The case is In re Gas City Ltd., 10-47879,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Houston Affordable Housing Complexes File Chapter 11  Two so-called affordable-housing projects filed for Chapter
11 protection in their hometown of Houston to forestall the
appointment of receivers on their loans.  The Mansions Family Apartment Housing Community has 230
units with monthly rents as high as $900. The  Mansions Senior
Living Apartment Housing Community , a complex for residents aged
55 and older, has 252 units and rents as high as $775 a month.
They are located beyond the Interstate 10 beltway in northwest
Houston. Both were finished in mid-2009 and are 95 percent
rented, according to court papers.  Wells Fargo Bank NA, the lender, declined to extend the
maturities of a $14 million construction loan for the Mansions
Family complex and a $13.2 million mortgage for the Mansions
Senior Living project, court papers show. The owners were unable
to secure permanent financing to repay the loans.  The cases are In re Mansions at Hastings Green LP, 10-
39474, and In re Mansions at Hasting Green Senior LP, 10-39476,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  Updates  Tousa Expanding Mediation Amid Outstanding Appeal  The bankruptcy judge overseeing the liquidation of
homebuilder  Tousa Inc . directed the warring factions to expand
the scope of the mediation that began Oct. 12.  Originally, Tousa and the creditors’ committee were in
mediation with lenders who were on the losing end of a decision
in October 2009 that secured loans were infected by fraudulent
transfers. This week, the bankruptcy judge directed that the
mediation be expanded in scope to include officers and directors
who also are being sued. Early this month, the bankruptcy judge
denied a motion by the officers and directors to dismiss the
suit.  Although the mediation is under way, two U.S. district
judges held arguments last week on appeals taken by the lenders
from the fraudulent transfer judgment.  The bankruptcy judge appointed New York bankruptcy lawyer
Peter L. Borowitz to serve as mediator. The mediation will
continue until Borowitz declares an impasse. The objective of
the mediation is to craft a settlement of the fraudulent
transfer suits and thereby enable confirmation of a consensual
Chapter 11 plan.  The bankruptcy judge, John K. Olson in Fort Lauderdale,
Florida, ruled last year that the bailout and refinancing in
mid-2007 of a joint venture in Transeastern Properties Inc.
included fraudulent transfers.  A hearing was to have been held today for approval of the
disclosure statement explaining the Chapter 11 plan filed in
July. In view of the mediation and the appeal, Olson pushed the
disclosure statement hearing back to Dec. 6.  For a summary of the plan, click here for the July 20
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. The plan assumes appellate courts
uphold the judgment the creditors’ committee won in October 2009
against the lenders.  Tousa filed for bankruptcy reorganization in January 2008.
The Hollywood, Florida-based company listed assets of $2.1
billion against debt totaling $2 billion. At the outset of the
reorganization it was 67 percent owned by  Technical Olympic SA .  The case is In re Tousa Inc., 08-10928, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  Awal to be Test Case for Limited Chapter 11 Use  Awal Bank BSC, which filed a petition in Chapter 11 on Oct.
21 to complement a Chapter 15 case begun in September 2009, may
become a test case for companies in bankruptcy simultaneously in
several countries.  The bank began bankruptcy administration proceedings in
Bahrain in July 2009. In the Chapter 15 case in New York, the
bankruptcy judge recognized Bahrain as the home of the so-called
foreign main proceeding, which meant that the foreign court
would be largely responsible for collecting assets and making
distributions to creditors.  Awal filed the Chapter 11 petition this month in New York
because the ability to bring lawsuits is limited in Chapter 15.
Awal said it needs Chapter 11 powers so that its administrator
can sue in the U.S. to recover preferences and fraudulent
transfers.  The bank therefore wanted U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan
Gropper to rule that the Chapter 11 case may have “very limited
scope.” At a hearing yesterday, Awal’s administrator asked
Gropper to rule that there should be no creditors’ committee and
no filing of lists of creditors.  The bank also wanted to remove the requirement that lawyers
and other professionals be retained with approval of the
bankruptcy court. The bank believes professionals should be paid
in the foreign proceeding without U.S. bankruptcy court
approval.  Awal’s administrators want the assets collected in the U.S.
to be distributed by the court in Bahrain under foreign law.  Gropper said yesterday, “I don’t think I’m going to grant
you very much today--though I might let you apply for it with
more notice.”  Awal’s petition said assets are less than $100 million
while debt exceeds $1 billion.  Domestic banks are precluded from filing any form of
bankruptcy in the U.S. The preclusion doesn’t apply to foreign
banks like Awal.  The new Chapter 11 case is In re Awal Bank BSC, 10-15518,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).
The Chapter 15 case is In re Awal Bank BSC, 09-15923, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Arrowgrass Wants Trico Subsidiaries in Chapter 11 Too  Two funds affiliated with Arrowgrass Capital Partners
expanded on prior allegations about fraudulent transfers by
Trico Marine Services Inc., filing a motion yesterday asking the
bankruptcy court in  Delaware  to force the provider of support
vessels for the offshore oil and gas industry to put its foreign
subsidiaries into Chapter 11.  Alternatively, Arrowgrass wants the bankruptcy judge to
appoint a Chapter 11 trustee to take over management of the
Trico parent.  Before the parent’s Chapter 11 filing in August, Arrowgrass
says Trico made a “substantial amount” of fraudulent transfers
to subsidiaries known as Trico Supply Group, which operates
mostly in  Norway . The Supply Group subsidiaries aren’t in
Chapter 11, although they are managed from the U.S. and have
their principal lending relationships with U.S. lenders,
Arrowgrass says.  Arrowgrass, which says it owns 3 percent senior convertible
debentures, doesn’t want the parent to “restructure the Trico
Supply Group outside the purview” of the U.S. bankruptcy court.
The creditor says the restructuring of the Supply Group is
“inevitable.” For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  In papers filed Oct. 19, Arrowgrass alleged that Trico
committed fraudulent transfers in a two-step transaction between
May and October 2009 involving 8.125 percent second-lien
debentures that were issued in the first stage. The new
debentures paid off the then-outstanding 6.5 percent debentures.
The allegations were made in opposition to final approval of $35
million of secured credit from Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC.  The Chapter 11 filing in August was the second by The
Woodlands, Texas-based Trico. It completed a so-called
prepackaged reorganization in early 2005 by exchanging $250
million in debt for equity. Shareholders received warrants.  Other than a Cayman Islands holding company, none of the
foreign subsidiaries are in bankruptcy this time. The
consolidated balance sheet for June listed assets of $904
million against liabilities totaling $1.03 billion. The
bankruptcy petition listed liabilities of $354 million for Trico
Marine.  Liabilities include $202.8 million on secured convertible
debentures and $150 million owing on unsecured convertible
debentures. Non-bankrupt Trico Shipping owes $400 million on the
11.875 percent senior secured notes.  The case is In re Trico Marine Services Inc., 10-12653,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Truvo Confirms Reorganization Plan After Settlement  Truvo Luxemburg Sarl, a Belgium-based international
publisher of directories, has an approved reorganization plan
given the signature of the bankruptcy judge yesterday on a
confirmation order.  The plan originally was scheduled for a contested
confirmation hearing on Oct. 6. A fight was headed off by a
settlement with the creditors’ committee and holders of high-
yield notes. The plan eliminates debt on European-based
subsidiaries that aren’t themselves in bankruptcy in the U.S. or
abroad.  Before the settlement, holders of the 778 million euros
($1.08 billion) of first-priority senior debt were to have a
recovery of 67.2 percent to 87.5 percent by receiving the new
equity plus debt. As a result of what they give up to lower-
ranking creditors, their recovery will decline by 0.6 percentage
point to 1.7 percentage points.  Under the original plan, the junior noteholders, owed 595
million euros, were to get 15 million euros in cash plus
warrants for 14 percent of the equity. The settlement increases
the cash by 5 million euros and the warrants to 20 percent. The
recovery for junior creditors is estimated to increase by 1
percentage point to 2.4 percentage points, for a recovery of 3.8
percent to 7.8 percent.  For a summary of the prior plan, click here for the Aug. 30
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The revised plan reduces Truvo’s debt to 475 million euros
from 1.4 billion euros, the company said in a statement.  Truvo’s petition listed assets for 1.04 billion euros
against liabilities totaling 1.67 billion euros. It is the
leading directory publisher in Belgium, Ireland and Romania.
Through a joint venture, Truvo is the leading directory
publisher in  Portugal .  The case is In re Truvo USA LLC, 10-13513, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Gordon Brothers Wins Day-Long Auction for Ashley Stewart  Urban Brands Inc., the owner of the  Ashley Stewart  brand of
women’s clothing, concluded a 21-hour auction for the assets
when an affiliate of Gordon Brothers Group LLC came out on top
over three other bidders.  The company said there was “spirited bidding.” The price
wasn’t disclosed. The bankruptcy court in Delaware will hold a
hearing today for approval of the sale. For Bloomberg coverage,
click here.  Urban Brands appeals to what it calls “plus sized urban
women.” The company filed under Chapter 11 on Sept. 21
expressly to sell the business. Based in Secaucus,  New Jersey ,
Urban Brands posted losses of $44.3 million in 2008 and $28.6
million in 2009.  The company has 210 stores in 26 states, including the
flagship store on 125th Street in the Harlem neighborhood of
Manhattan. Sales declined from $179.6 million to $174.6 million
between 2008 and 2009.  Funds affiliated with Trimaran Capital Partners are the
largest shareholders, court papers say. Trimaran is owed $81.2
million on senior unsecured notes. UBI Holding Corp. is the
other principal shareholder. Bank of America NA, a secured
lender, is owed $2.3 million.  The petition said assets are less than $50 million while
debt exceeds $100 million.  The case is In re Urban Brands Inc., 10-13005, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).    South Carolina  Toll Road Files Chapter 9 Reorganization Plan  Connector 2000 Association Inc. , the not-for-profit owner
of a 16-mile (26-kilometer) toll road in South Carolina, filed
for a municipal reorganization under Chapter 9 in June and
submitted a reorganization plan and explanatory disclosure
statement on Oct. 22.  Before the plan can be confirmed, Connector must survive an
effort by the South Carolina Department of Transportation to
have the Chapter 9 case dismissed. The department claims
Connector isn’t a municipality and therefore isn’t eligible for
Chapter 9 reorganization.  The proposed plan deals with $224 million in senior bonds
and $88 million in subordinated bonds. There is another $20
million in other liabilities, according to the disclosure
statement.  The senior bondholders are in line to receive about $202
million in Tier 1 and Tier 2 bonds. The subordinated debt
holders, if they vote for the plan, would receive $4.2 million
in Tier 3 bonds.  The disclosure statement says that the Tier 1 bonds will
eat up 83.5 percent of projected net revenue.  The Transportation Department filed papers in July aiming
to have the Chapter 9 case dismissed.  Discovery in the dispute will end this week. Pre-trial
briefs are to be filed by Nov. 17 and the trial over Chapter 9
eligibility will begin Dec. 6.  Connector 2000 is a public benefit corporation under South
Carolina law. A court filing said toll revenue from the outset
trailed projections and wasn’t sufficient to service about $316
million in tax-exempt bonds.  The case is In re Connector 2000 Association Inc., 10-
04467, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of South Carolina
(Spartanburg).  Tender Offer News  Icahn Supplements MGM Put Offer with Tender Offer  Carl Icahn unveiled another weapon in his fight to take
control of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. by offering to purchase
senior secured bonds for 53 cents on the dollar.  The tender offer is in addition to the put offer Icahn
announced last week where he guaranteed holders of the bonds
that they won’t recover less than 45 percent if they join with
him in voting against MGM’s proposed prepackaged reorganization.
MGM’s plan would have secured lenders exchange $4 billion in
debt for 95.3 percent of the new stock.  By combining the put offer, the tender offer, and debt the
he already owns, Icahn intends to assume ownership or voting
rights on $1.6 billion in bonds, representing about 51 percent
of the senior debt.  Although Icahn’s new offer is open until Oct. 29, he said
in his statement that he may elect to purchase debt as it is
tendered.  Icahn’s put offer and the Los Angeles-based company’s
proposal also expire on Oct. 29, unless extended. For other
Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Under Icahn’s put offer, debt holders can retain the
upside, allowing them to take home more than 45 percent if the
new stock trades high enough after bankruptcy.  The MGM prepackaged plan would have Spyglass Entertainment
Group acquire the remainder of the new equity in exchange for
contributing assets including Cypress Entertainment Group Inc.
and Garoge Inc.  MGM was acquired in April 2005 in a $4.8 billion
transaction by a group including  Credit Suisse Group AG ,
Providence Equity Partners Inc.,  Sony Corp . and TPG Capital.  Daily Podcast  Texas Rangers, Tribune Examiner, ‘Plain Meaning’ Case: Audio  Opposition to reimbursing Mark Cuban and James Crane for
expenses in their unsuccessful pursuit of the  Texas Rangers 
baseball club, the $12 million cost of the Tribune Co.
examiner’s report, the failure of the auction for Daufuskie
Island Resort & Breathe Spa, and analysis of a “plain meaning”
opinion are subjects covered in the new bankruptcy podcast on
the Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click
here.  Advance Sheets  Bankruptcy Jurisdiction Limited After Plan Confirmed  After a reorganization plan is confirmed and the Chapter 11
case is closed, the bankruptcy court has no jurisdiction to
enforce an order approving the sale of property, the U.S. Court
of Appeals in  San Francisco  ruled on Oct. 25.  The case involved a sale of property approved by an order
of the bankruptcy judge. The order became final, the Chapter 11
plan was confirmed, creditors were paid, and the bankruptcy case
was closed.  A creditor who had notice of the sale proceedings later
filed a lawsuit in state court based on alleged breach of a
contract providing a right of first refusal on the property sold
during bankruptcy. The suit was brought to bankruptcy court,
where the bankruptcy judge dismissed it as being in violation of
the sale-approval order.  The bankruptcy appellate panel affirmed the lower court.
The 9th Circuit in San Francisco reversed in an opinion where
Circuit Judge Michael D. Hawkins said “reopening of the
bankruptcy claim is rare, and only used when necessary to
resolve bankruptcy issues, and not to adjudicate state law
claims that can be adjudicated in state court.” Hawkins cited a
1993 decision from the 9th Circuit saying a “debtor is usually
without protection of the bankruptcy court” after a plan is
confirmed.  The opinion by Hawkins analyzed why there was neither
“arising under,” “arising in,” nor “related to”
jurisdiction since the bankruptcy case had been closed and the
plan confirmed.  Hawkins also said there was no “ancillary” jurisdiction
because the post-bankruptcy dispute didn’t have a “close
nexus” to the reorganization plan or proceedings.  Hawkins explained the court’s thinking near the end of the
opinion in quoting from the Wright & Miller federal practice
treatise, which says that “the first court does not get to
dictate to other courts the preclusion consequences of its own
judgment.” Hawkins said the suit in state court was nothing
more than a “run-of-the-mill collateral attack.”  The case is Battle Ground Plaza LLC v. Ray (In re Ray), 09-
60005, U.S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 