-- BOJ Should Buy Government Bonds to Ease Yen Gain, Merrill's Kichikawa Says
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   T a t s u o   I t o
-- 2010-10-27T05:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/boj-should-buy-government-bonds-to-ease-yen-gain-merrill-s-kichikawa-says.html
The Bank of Japan needs to do more
to curb the yen’s advance by increasing its purchases of
government bonds with longer maturities, according to Merrill
Lynch Japan Securities Co.  “Currency intervention isn’t the leading player in halting
the yen’s gain -- monetary policy is the only way to go,”
 Masayuki Kichikawa , chief economist at Merrill Lynch in Tokyo,
said in an interview yesterday. He said the central bank should
buy between 20 trillion yen ($245 billion) and 25 trillion yen
in 10-year and 20-year government bonds, which would lower long-
term borrowing costs and help stoke inflationary expectations.  The Japanese currency is approaching a postwar record of
79.75 against the dollar, threatening the nation’s export-led
recovery. Efforts by the Finance Ministry to halt the yen’s
gains with more than 2 trillion yen of currency intervention and
the Bank of Japan’s credit easing have been unsuccessful, with
the currency gaining 5 percent since authorities sold the yen on
Sept. 15.  Should the yen rise to between 70 and 75 against the dollar
and increase deflationary pressure, that could force companies
to shift production abroad and cut jobs and business investment,
Kichikawa said. “It’s very important for Japanese authorities
to take measures to stabilize the yen between 85 and 90.”  The central bank this month created a 5 trillion-yen fund
to buy government debt and other assets. Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  has said that the bank may consider expanding the fund
when it explores additional policy easing. The central bank also
buys 21.6 trillion yen of  government debt  per year from lenders,
including 1.2 trillion yen in bonds with maturities of more than
10 years and up to 30 years.  Widen Rate Gap  Buying debt with longer maturities would also help widen
the interest-rate gap between American and Japanese borrowing
costs, easing pressure on the yen, Kichikawa said. Shirakawa has
said that the central bank purchases aren’t intended to finance
government spending and keep long-term yields low. The bank said
this month its fund will buy government bonds with a remaining
maturity of about one to two years.  The yen traded at 81.65 against the dollar at 2:02 p.m. in
Tokyo, after reaching to a 15-year high of 80.41 on Oct. 25 and
has gained 14 percent versus the U.S. currency this year.  A 10 percent surge in the yen would shave between 0.5
percentage point to 0.6 percentage point from Japan’s gross
domestic product, Kichikawa said. He forecasts the economy will
grow 2 percent in the year ending March 31 and 1.6 percent the
following fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  