-- Bradesco Third-Quarter Net Income Rises 40% on Record Brazil Bank Lending
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2010-10-27T21:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/bradesco-third-quarter-net-income-rises-40-on-record-brazil-bank-lending.html
Banco Bradesco SA , Brazil’s second-
biggest bank by market value, fell the most in four months after
reporting higher-than-expected third-quarter expenses and profit
that missed some analysts’ estimates.  The preferred shares dropped 4.5 percent to 35.25 reais,
the most since June 29. Bradesco rose 23 percent this year
through yesterday,  compared with  a 3.1 percent increase in
Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index.  Adjusted profit gained 40 percent to 2.52 billion reais
($1.5 billion), Bradesco said in a regulatory filing today. Four
analysts in a Bloomberg  survey  had an  average  estimate of 2.55
billion reais. Administrative and personnel expenses increased
18 percent to 5.3 billion reais from a year earlier because of
the expansion of its customer service network, contract
adjustments, increased advertising and the purchase of Banco
ibi, Bradesco said.  “Administrative expenses came higher than expected and
will very likely continue to expand,” Banco BTG Pactual SA
analysts in Rio de Janeiro, including  Eduardo Nishio  and  Eduardo Rosman , wrote in a report today. “Loans grew 4.2 percent
quarter on quarter, below estimates.”  Falling Default Rates  Brazilian bank lending is rising as record low unemployment
and salary increases fuel demand for consumer and corporate
credit. Outstanding credit rose 20 percent in September to a
record 1.61 trillion reais, according to the central bank.  Bradesco’s loan portfolio expanded 19 percent from a year
earlier to 255.6 billion reais, while total assets increased 26
percent to 611.9 billion reais, the company said. The average
default rate, defined as a delay in payment of more than 90
days, dropped to 3.8 percent at the end of September from 4
percent in the second quarter and 5 percent a year earlier.  Bradesco expects the default rate to fall in the fourth
quarter, Vice President  Domingos Abreu  said during a conference
call today. He also said the bank expects to open 175 branches
this year, fewer than the 250 it had planned.  Bradesco’s profit without excluding extraordinary events
increased 40 percent to 2.53 billion reais.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Price  in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net ;
 Adriana Brasileiro  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  