-- British Airways May Post Net, Boosting Iberia Merger
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-10-28T07:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/british-airways-may-post-first-profit-in-two-years-boosting-iberia-merger.html
British Airways Plc  Chief Executive
Officer  Willie Walsh , poised to take charge of the expanded
airline created by a merger with Spain’s  Iberia , may tomorrow
report the U.K. carrier’s first profit in two years.  Net income may reach 158.6 million pounds ($250 million) in
the three months ended Sept. 30 from a year-earlier loss, the
 average estimate  of five analysts compiled by Bloomberg shows.
London-based British Airways last posted a profit in August
2008, just before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
that prompted a slump in demand for premium-class travel.  Air France-KLM Group  and Deutsche Lufthansa AG both raised
their forecasts this week, helped by a rebound in traffic. Six
months after British Airways was rocked by a series of cabin-
crew strikes and the closure of European air space because of a
cloud of volcanic ash, Walsh is using an alliance on trans-
Atlantic flights with  AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines to take on
the carrier’s biggest European rivals.  “They’ve guided breakeven for the year but, it wouldn’t
surprise me, given momentum and yields if we get better than
that,” said  Stephen Furlong , an analyst at Davy Stockbrokers in
Dublin, who rates British Airways shares “outperform.”  British Airways, the third-largest airline in Europe, has
risen 49 percent this year in London, as a recovery in air-
travel demand combined with restrained capacity increases pushed
up yields, or average fares. In the eight-company  Bloomberg EMEA
Airlines Index , only merger partner Iberia Lineas Aereas de
Espana SA performed better, with a 69 percent increase.  Breaking Even  The U.K. carrier  rose  0.4 percent to 279.1 pence at 8:36
a.m. in London. Iberia added 0.3 percent to 3.23 euros in
Madrid.  British Airways told investors on July 30 that it was
aiming to break even at a pretax level in the year ending March
31, following  record losses . An improvement in outlook would
mirror a move by Lufthansa, which raised its forecast yesterday
after nine-month operating profit more than doubled. Air France,
Europe’s biggest airline, boosted its outlook Oct. 26,
predicting an operating profit for its current fiscal year.  The International Air Transport Association last month
tripled its projection for 2010 airline profit to $8.9 billion
globally as travel increases. The eight biggest U.S. carriers,
including United Airlines, Continental Airlines and  Southwest
Airlines Co. , last week posted their highest profits in three
years on rising fares.  Merger Candidates  Tomorrow’s earnings will be the final set before British
Airways completes its merger with Iberia. Starting next year,
British Airways earnings will be reported as part of
International Consolidated Airlines Group S.A., which will
report results in euros.  The merger, valuing the combined carriers at $9.3 billion
at yesterday’s market prices, is scheduled to be completed in
January subject to  investor  and court approval, British Airways
said yesterday. The 49-year-old Walsh, and who will become CEO
at IAG, said in September that the two carriers were already
working together to identify further merger candidates even
before their own tie-up was completed.  Walsh, who has led British Airways since 2005, will get a
90,000 pound  raise  in annual basic salary to 825,000 pounds, a
12 percent increase, according to shareholder documents.  The biggest threat to British Airways’ recovery will be the
ability of the airline industry to resist the temptation of
adding too many new routes and increasing services too fast to
take advantage of the pickup in demand, said  Douglas McNeill , an
analyst at Charles Stanley in London who has a “reduce” rating
on the stock.  Recovery  “Airlines have kept a pretty tight grip on capacity,
taking it out during the recession and they haven’t really put
it back yet, and as a result fares are quite well up.” McNeill
said. “The risk is that the capacity discipline starts to slip,
and some might say it’s more of a certainty than a risk.”  While the premium segment is “recovering, especially on
long-haul routes, uncertainties remain, however, concerning the
sustainability of the upturn,” Lufthansa CEO  Wolfgang Mayrhuber 
said today in Frankfurt.  For Walsh, a 20-month dispute with the airline’s cabin
crew, which could lead to a strike ballot at Christmas, still
has the potential to sour his year.  About 12,000 flight attendants are set to vote on British
Airways’ latest offer on pay and staffing levels that would
slash annual expenses by 160 million pounds in a decade. A
rejection of the proposal would prompt a poll on walkouts that
could ground flights over the Christmas and New Year holidays.  A date for the ballot hasn’t been set yet, according to
 Pauline Doyle , a spokeswoman for the Unite cabin-crew union.  “Walsh would like to go out on a high as he moves to his
new BA-Iberia role,” said  John Strickland , an aviation analyst
and director of JLS Consulting Ltd. “It would make a nice
conclusion for him if he gets this sorted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  