-- Cablevision Systems Sued by Customers Over Fox Network Block
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2010-10-27T21:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/cablevision-sued-by-customers-over-dispute-blocking-world-series-broadcast.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. , which
provides television programming in the New York City area, was
sued by customers seeking damages for the company’s failure to
firm up a contract with  News Corp. ’s Fox network.  Cablevision has been embroiled in a dispute with Fox over
fees, and customers face blank screens today for the U.S.
baseball World Series opener pitting the Texas Rangers against
the San Francisco Giants.  The suit “seeks restitution for Cablevision’s 3 million
customers who have been deprived of Fox channels, which have
been replaced by Cablevision’s annoying and self-serving loop,
which whines about News Corp.’s supposed failure to negotiate in
good faith.”  The complaint, filed yesterday in federal court in White
Plains, New York, by subscribers in Yorktown Heights, New York,
Mountain Lakes, New Jersey, and Stamford, Connecticut, seeks at
least $450 million in compensation, as well as punitive damages.  Fox, based in New York, cut its electronic feed to
Cablevision, of Bethpage, New York, two weeks ago, after the
companies couldn’t agree on fees to be paid by Cablevision.  “News Corp. is the company that deserves a lawsuit, for
blacking out the World Series in three million New York-area
homes,” said  Jim Maiella , a spokesman for Cablevision, in an e-
mailed message. “The FCC has all the facts and our customers
are demanding that the FCC act to end the FOX blackout.”  Similar Suit  A similar lawsuit was filed in New York State Supreme
Court, a trial court in Nassau County, by two Long Island
residents Oct. 21, also seeking damages and alleging breach of
contract and unjust enrichment by Cablevision.  One of the plaintiffs, William Canfield, said in a phone
interview that he sued because “there’s a point when we little
people get frustrated when we’re mistreated. I feel Cablevision
had an obligation and this should have been handled months ago.
It’s not fair.”  Cablevision rose 52 cents to $27 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have risen 26
percent this year.  The federal case is Gallo v. Cablevision Systems Corp.,
10CV8125, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(White Plains). The state case is Canfield and Gandolfo v.
Cablevision Systems Corp., 600933/2010, New York State Supreme
Court (Nassau County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 