-- Cablevision, Fox Continue Blackout Spat to World Series Start
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l
-- 2010-10-27T20:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/cablevision-makes-new-offer-to-end-fox-blackout-before-world-series-start.html
Cablevision Systems Corp.  and  News
Corp.  traded a new round of accusations in a dispute over
programming fees that has blacked out Fox television service for
3 million Cablevision customers in the New York area.  Cablevision today offered to pay Fox the same rate it
charges Time Warner Cable Inc. for Fox broadcasts for one year,
in a bid to restore programming ahead of tonight’s World Series
start. The Bethpage, New York-based company said the proposal
was in the best interests of baseball fans and Fox viewers.  News Corp. ’s Fox refused the offer, saying Cablevision is
seeking a “discounted ‘package rate’ without buying the entire
package,” Fox said in an e-mailed statement.  The blackout started Oct. 16 when News Corp. cut its Fox
signal to  Cablevision . The companies have been deadlocked over
how much the cable company should pay for Fox broadcast stations
and the Fox Business, Nat Geo Wild and Fox Deportes cable
channels. The impasse threatens to leave Cablevision subscribers
without the Fox network as it begins the World Series broadcast
at 7:30 p.m. New York time.  “We are very disappointed that we offered News Corp. what
they asked to be paid,” said  Charles Schueler , executive vice
president at Cablevision, in an e-mailed statement, “and News
Corp. has said no.”  Cablevision again called on the U.S. Federal Communications
Commission to intervene and to require Fox to agree to binding
arbitration. Fox has rebuffed arbitration, saying direct
negotiation is the only way to resolve the dispute.  Rising TV Fees  The FCC is looking into whether Cablevision customers
should receive refunds for programming missed during the
dispute, a person familiar with the agency’s deliberations said.
The person spoke on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations aren’t public.  News Corp.  was in a similar fee dispute with Time Warner
Cable late last year, and sought $1 a month per subscriber for
its Fox stations, people familiar with the matter said at the
time. Terms of the agreement with Time Warner Cable were not
made public.  Time Warner Cable may have agreed to pay Fox, on average,
more than 50 cents a month per subscriber, according to  Rich Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York. In that
agreement, signed early this year, Fox will likely receive
retransmission fees below 50 cents in the first year, with
payments escalating annually over the contract’s four- to six-
year span to 75 cents, Greenfield estimated.  “We have told Cablevision all along we are willing to
negotiate a deal -- based on an entire suite of channels --
under the terms we have reached with Time Warner Cable and other
providers, or a standalone agreement for WNYW FOX5, WTXF FOX29
and WWOR My9,” Fox said in its statement.  News Corp.,  based in New York, rose 1 cent to $14.32 at 4
p.m. on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Cablevision gained 52 cents, or
2 percent, to $27 in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  