-- Canada's Dollar Depreciates for a Second Day Amid a Rally in the Greenback
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-27T21:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/canada-s-dollar-depreciates-for-a-second-day-amid-a-rally-in-the-greenback.html
Canada’s dollar weakened for a
second day as the U.S. dollar strengthened against all of its
major counterparts on speculation bond buying by the Federal
Reserve will be less extensive than previously thought.  The loonie, as the currency is known, has been one of the
worst performers versus the greenback among its 16 most-traded
counterparts since Sept. 21 when the Fed signaled the central
bank may add more stimulus to the economy through a second round
of quantitative easing. Stocks and raw materials such as crude
oil fell.  “You have an expectation that the Fed won’t have to be as
aggressive as we thought when they talked of going in to
quantitative easing,” said  David Watt , senior currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital unit in
Toronto. “In order for the Canadian dollar to leave its peers
behind we have to get some clarity that the Fed will be
successful in kick-starting Canada’s No. 1 trading partner.”  The Canadian currency fell 0.4 percent to C$1.0281 per U.S.
dollar, at 5 p.m. in Toronto from C$1.0239 Oct. 26. One Canadian
dollar bought 97.27 U.S. cents.  Investors should buy Canada’s dollar against the Swiss
franc as the loonie will benefit from any gains by its U.S.
peer, while being insulated by higher oil prices should the
dollar weaken, Citigroup Inc. said. Citigroup put a target of
99.80 centimes per loonie in two weeks, currency strategists
including London-based  Valentin Marinov  wrote in a report today.
Marinov and colleague  Greg Anderson  recommended exiting the
trade should the franc appreciate to 94.30 centimes per loonie.  Swiss Trade  “We are reluctant to go short euro-dollar outright given
continued strong central bank demand for euros, but we like the
idea of shorting a proxy where there is no such floor,” the
analysts wrote. “Long Canadian dollar-franc has the added
benefit of performing well during bouts of rising commodity
prices on the back of dollar weakness. If dollar weakness
reasserts, oil prices should also rally and lift” the Canadian
currency, they wrote. A long position is a bet a currency or
security will gain.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  halted interest-rate
rises on Oct. 19, standing pat at 1 percent in the overnight
target rate, and cut the nation’s growth forecasts, citing a
“weaker outlook” in the U.S., destination of about two-thirds
of Canada’s exports.  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  closed 0.3 percent lower.
Crude oil futures dropped 0.7 percent. Canada derives about half
its export revenue from the sale of commodities.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said today his
country is not planning to deploy additional fiscal stimulus
beyond what has already been committed.  “I just met with colleagues in Korea and there was no
suggestion that Canada would do anything more than it is
doing,” Flaherty told reporters outside Parliament.  Flaherty
and his Group of 20 counterparts met in Gyeongju, Korea, last
weekend.  Government bonds fell for a second day, driving the 10-
year’s yield 8 basis points, or 0.08 percent point, higher to
2.89 percent. The price of the 3.5 percent security due in June
2020 fell 68 cents to C$105.08.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net 
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  