-- Carlyle Group Wins Auction for CLOs Overseen by Mizuho's Mountain Capital
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2010-10-27T21:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/carlyle-group-wins-auction-for-clos-overseen-by-mizuho-s-mountain-capital.html
Carlyle Group won an auction for the
management contracts of four collateralized loan obligations
overseen by Mizuho Alternative Investments LLC’s U.S. loan
management business Mountain Capital Advisors.  The funds consist of $1.2 billion of leveraged loans,
according to  Linda Pace , a managing director at Carlyle.
Structured-credit advisory firm  GreensLedge Group LLC  was hired
by Mizuho to sell the business.  “This is part of our ongoing efforts to deepen and broaden
our credit alternatives platform,” Pace said.  This is the second loan fund auction Washington-based
Carlyle has won this year, as the safest portions of the CLO,
those rated AAA by Standard & Poor’s, traded at 91.5 cents on
the dollar Sept. 16, after hitting a low of 69 cents in April
2009, according to Morgan Stanley data. It previously bought
$5.1 billion of leveraged loans and other credits managed by
Stanfield Capital Partners LLC. The world’s second-largest
private-equity firm is also looking to invest in hedge funds.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return. The loans they buy are used to back
acquisitions and leveraged buyouts, including the purchase of
Burger King Holdings Inc. by 3G Capital.  Mizuho previously sold its loan management business in
Europe to  3i Group Plc , according to a Sept. 27 news release.  Masatoshi Muto , chief executive officer of Mizuho
Alternative Investments, declined to comment.  CLO Market  The market for CLOs is restarting after collapsing in 2007.
This year through August, $1.3 billion of U.S. CLOs backed by
widely syndicated loans have been issued, compared with $1.22
billion for all of last year, Morgan Stanley data show. In 2007
about $91.1 billion of that type of CLO was issued in the U.S.
GSO Capital Partners LP, the credit investment arm of Blackstone
Group LP, and Apollo Global Management LLC are currently trying
to raise CLOs.  Many CLOs stopped paying some fees to their managers during
the credit crisis and stopped some cash distributions to holders
of the lowest portion of the structures. At its worst, 75
percent of all CLOs in the U.S. had some type of cash-flow
diversion for at least a quarter or two, according to Citigroup
Inc. data.  After the S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index posted a
52.2 percent return last year and 7.4 percent year-to-date,
managers began to receive fees cut off during the financial
crisis. Eighty percent of U.S. CLO equity holders are receiving
a full distribution of cash and another 10 percent are receiving
partial distributions, according to an Oct. 12 report from
Citigroup.  Generators of Income  “The question is, how much are you making from the CLOs,”
said  Gene Phillips , a director at  PF2 Securities , a consulting
firm in New York. “While they have proved to be steady, they
are not massive generators of income. If you only have one or
two, it can be difficult to support a business. It may depend on
how your other investment activities are panning out.”  Managers may have held off selling their firm or portfolios
until CLOs improved enough so that they started paying their
subordinated fees again, which could gain them a higher sale
price, Phillips said.  GSO purchased Callidus Capital Management LLC, a leveraged-
loan unit of Allied Capital Corp. with about $3.2 billion in
assets under management, earlier this year, according to a news
release. Primus Guaranty Ltd. sold its asset-management unit to
Commercial Industrial Finance Corp. last month. Primus agreed to
buy CypressTree Investment Management LLP in 2009.  “It’s a question of critical mass,” Phillips said. “Are
you making enough money from the CLO business to keep running
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Haunss  in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  