-- Carney Reiterates Further Canada Tightening Will Be Carefully Considered
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-27T21:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/carney-reiterates-further-canada-tightening-will-be-carefully-considered.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
reiterated that the country’s economy has “considerable”
stimulus from his 1 percent benchmark interest rate and further
moves to tighten policy would be “carefully considered.”  Carney also said he’s concerned about “tensions” in
global currency markets and that Canadians must be “vigilant”
about rising debt loads, speaking today to the Senate banking
committee in Ottawa.  “At this time of transition in the global recovery, with a
weaker U.S. outlook, constraints beginning to moderate growth in
emerging-market economies, and domestic considerations that are
expected to slow consumption and housing activity in Canada, any
further reduction in monetary policy stimulus would need to be
carefully considered,” Carney said.  The bank last week lowered its  economic growth  forecast for
the next five quarters and kept its key lending rate  unchanged 
after three prior increases. Trading in overnight index swaps
suggest he won’t act again for nine months.  The bank could act in foreign exchange markets if trading
was disrupted or an appreciation threatened to derail economic
growth, Carney said, reiterating the bank’s existing policy. The
Bank of Canada hasn’t acted to support the Canadian dollar since
1998, and Carney said unilateral currency action “seldom
works.”  Carney also reiterated that the bank’s latest forecast
assumes further monetary stimulus will be deployed by the U.S.
Federal Reserve. He said so-called quantitative easing is one
option the Fed could use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  