-- Carrizo Plans Refinancing Amid `Daunting' Debt Maturities: New Issue Alert
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-10-27T08:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/carrizo-plans-refinancing-amid-daunting-debt-maturities-new-issue-alert.html
Carrizo Oil Gas Inc., a Houston-
based energy exploration and production company, plans to sell
notes as record issuance of high-yield, high-risk corporate
bonds helps to reduce a “daunting” amount of debt.  Carrizo plans to use proceeds from its $325 million
offering of eight-year notes to repay bank debt and buy back its
convertible bonds due in June 2028, according to a person
familiar with the offering who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  Companies face about $800 million of speculative-grade
bonds and loans maturing in the next five years, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. Borrowers have sold $226.8 billion of
junk-rated debt this year, the most on record, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance must keep up its pace to help
companies manage upcoming maturities, CreditSights Inc. analysts
 Glenn Reynolds ,  Chris Taggert  and  Louise Purtle  wrote in an Oct.
25 note to clients.  “There is no way around the reality that ongoing record
issuance will be required---even if in fits and starts---to
parallel the record refinancing need,” the analysts wrote.
“The wave of maturities that linger from the recent credit
cycle and especially the leveraged loan explosion of 2006-2007
are nothing short of daunting.”  Near-Term Debt  Issuers have succeeded in eroding the wall of debt that
will mature the soonest, Moody’s said in September. About $55
billion of speculative-grade bonds were set to mature through
2012 at the time of the Sept. 14 report, down from $87 billion
in February.  The extra yield investors demand to own high-yield debt
instead of Treasuries fell 11 basis points, the most since Sept.
9, to 579 basis points yesterday, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch High Yield Master II Index. Yields
declined 3 basis points to 7.67 percent.  High-yield debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., the Australian iron-ore
producer, sold $2.04 billion of five-year notes in yesterday’s
only junk-bond offering, Bloomberg data show. Companies have
sold $5.54 billion of high-yield debt this week, compared with
$4.58 billion over the similar period a week earlier.  Moody’s assigned Carrizo’s notes a rank of B3, while S&P
graded them B, one step higher, the credit raters said in
separate statements.  Investment-grade spreads tightened 1 basis point to 178
basis points, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
U.S. Corporate Master Index. Yields on the debt climbed 6 basis
points to 3.68 percent, the index data show.  Morgan Stanley sold $1.5 billion of five-year notes and BNP
Paribas SA issued $2 billion of covered bonds to lead $5.8
billion of investment-grade offerings, Bloomberg data show.  The following is a description of at least $6.54 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  Investment Grade  TRANSNET LTD., South Africa’s state-owned ports, rail and
pipeline operator, said it may sell $1 billion worth of bonds in
international markets to pay for expansion. Transnet has 35.2
billion rand ($5 billion) of debt outstanding.  UNITED BUSINESS MEDIA LTD., the owner of PR Newswire and
publisher of InformationWeek, plans to sell $500 million of 10-
year notes, according to two people with knowledge of the
offering. Barclays Capital, Credit Suisse Group AG, HSBC
Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing the sale,
said the people, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  Not Rated  TRAVELLERS INTERNATIONAL HOTEL GROUP INC., the Philippines
casino operator owned by Alliance Global Group Inc. and Genting
Hong Kong Ltd., hired UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Banco de Oro
Unibank Inc. to help it sell seven-year dollar bonds, according
to a person familiar with the offering who asked not to be
identified because the details are private.  STERICYCLE INC. plans to issue $175 million of seven-year,
3.89 percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent
debt after receiving informal commitments from 22 institutional
investors to buy the securities, it said in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  High Yield  BROADCOM CORP., the biggest maker of chips for television
set-top boxes, plans to sell about $600 million of senior notes,
according to a statement distributed by PR Newswire. Proceeds
will be used for general corporate purposes, Irvine, California-
based Broadcom said in the statement.  WII COMPONENTS INC., the manufacturer of wood cabinet doors
owned by Behrman Capital LP, plans to sell $115 million of
senior secured five-year notes, the company said in an Oct. 25
statement distributed by Business Wire. The notes may be used to
help fund a tender for outstanding 10 percent senior securities
due 2012, according to the statement. S&P assigned the debt a
grade of B-, it said in a statement.  VIKING ACQUISITION INC., the Avista Capital Partners-owned
entity that’s buying Clorox Co.’s auto-care business, plans to
sell $250 million of notes to pay for the acquisition, according
to a statement from Moody’s. Moody’s assigned the senior
unsecured debt a grade of Caa1, according to the statement. S&P
rates the securities due in 2018 an equivalent CCC+, it said on
Oct. 21. Avista Capital Partners is also seeking a $300 million
term loan and a $50 million revolving credit line to help pay
for the transaction.  CARRIZO OIL & GAS, a Houston-based energy exploration and
production company, plans to sell $325 million of notes maturing
in 2018 in a private offering, it said in a statement
distributed by Marketwire. Proceeds may be used to repay bank
debt and to finance a $300 million tender offer for the
company’s 4.375 percent convertible senior notes due in June
2028, according to the statement. Credit Suisse Group AG, Wells
Fargo & Co. and Royal Bank of Canada are managing the sale,
according to a person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  DUNKIN’ BRANDS INC., owner of Dunkin’ Donuts and Baskin-
Robbins restaurants, plans to sell $625 million of senior notes
and obtain a $1.35 billion senior credit line to repay
securitized debt and help fund a dividend, the company said in
an Oct. 25 statement distributed by Business Wire. The notes
will be issued through Dunkin’ Finance Corp., according to the
statement. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG will manage
the bond sale, according to a person familiar with the
negotiations, who declined to be identified because the terms
are private.  MOMENTIVE PERFORMANCE MATERIALS INC., a unit of Apollo
Management LP, plans to sell the equivalent of $840 million of
debt in dollars and euros through a private offering, the
company said in a statement distributed by Business Wire.  MOMENTIVE SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INC., the Apollo Management
LP-owned chemical maker formerly known as Hexion Specialty
Chemicals Inc., plans to issue $440 million of 10-year notes,
according to a statement distributed by Business Wire. The debt
may be sold through its Hexion U.S. Finance Corp. and Hexion
Nova Scotia Finance ULC units, it said the statement.  SIMMONS FOODS INC. plans to sell $250 million of second-
lien senior secured notes, according to a person familiar with
the offering. Proceeds from the debt due in 2017 may be used to
help pay for the acquisition of Menu Foods Ltd., said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  PACNET LTD., the operator of undersea phone and Internet
cables in Asia, plans to sell $300 million of five-year bonds,
according to a person familiar with the matter. Barclays Plc,
Credit Suisse Group AG, DBS Group Holdings Ltd. and Standard
Chartered Plc are managing the sale of bonds, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the details are private.  RURAL/METRO CORP., the provider of medical transportation
and fire protection, plans to sell $200 million of senior notes
due 2018 through a private offering, the company said in an Oct.
18 statement distributed by Marketwire.  {Added Oct. 19. See  RURL US  .)  HIDILI INDUSTRY INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT LTD., the Chinese
coal mining company, plans to sell $400 million of five-year
dollar bonds, according to a person familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be identified as details are private. Moody’s
rated the debt B1 and S&P ranked it BB-, one step higher.  (Added Oct. 19. See  1393 HK  .)  FRIENDFINDER NETWORKS INC., the publisher of Penthouse
magazine, plans to sell $296 million of secured first-lien notes
due 2013, according to a note from S&P. S&P rated the debt from
the private Boca Raton, Florida-based company B.  Offerings in Pipeline  PTA BANK , or Eastern and Southern African Trade and
Development Bank, hired HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard Bank
Group Ltd. to arrange bond investor meetings in Europe and Asia,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. The meetings
will be held in Hong Kong, Singapore, Zurich, Geneva and London,
said the people, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. The company may sell dollar bonds after the
meetings, the people said.  MAQUINARIA ESPECIALIZADA MXO TRUST , a special-purpose
company expected to provide construction machinery services to
Corporacion GEO SAB de CV, hired Banco Santander SA to arrange
bond investor meetings, according to a person with knowledge of
the sale. A dollar bond sale may follow the meetings, to be held
in London, Boston, New York and Los Angeles, said the person,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  NOBLE GROUP LTD., the commodities supplier that counts
China’s sovereign wealth fund as a shareholder, is marketing a
sale of perpetual bonds in U.S. dollars, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Noble is offering the notes to
investors to yield about 8.5 percent, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the details are private. JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc are managing the benchmark sale, the person said.
A benchmark issue is typically at least $500 million.  CODELCO, the world’s biggest copper producer, hired
Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc to manage a bond sale,
said a person familiar with the transaction who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set. The state-owned company led
the rescue of 33 miners trapped half a mile below Chile’s
Atacama Desert.  CREDIT BANK OF MOSCOW plans to sell five-year dollar bonds,
according to a person familiar with the transaction.  The sale
of Reg S securities is being arranged by Commerzbank AG, ING
Groep NV and Raiffeisen Bank International, the banker said.  DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, hired Morgan
Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to manage a planned $500
million bond sale, its chief executive officer said. The
offering, announced on the Qatar Exchange website, will be
marketed to investors in the U.S., Europe and the Middle East,
 Raghavan Seetharaman  said in an Oct. 20 telephone interview.  SANTANDER U.K. PLC , a unit of Spain’s largest bank, plans
to sell mortgage-backed securities, according to two people
familiar with the transaction. The lender hired Barclays
Capital, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
to help its investment banking unit to arrange the transaction,
said the people, who declined to be named before the deal is
completed. The notes will be issued in dollars, pounds and euros
and sold through Holmes Master Issuer PLC Series 2010-1.  BELARUS may sell debt in the U.S. and Asia, according to
Finance Minister Andrei Kharkovets. “We will undoubtedly enter
the Asian and the American markets,” Kharkovets said in an Oct.
15 interview in Moscow, declining to comment on the timing of
possible sales.  GEORGIAN RAILWAY LLC, the former Soviet republic’s state-
owned rail company, is preparing a bond roadshow in the U.S.,
Giorgi Gagnidze, the company’s financial director, said in
comments broadcast on Rustavi-2 television.  ICICI BANK LTD., India’s second-largest lender, hired
Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG to sell as
much as $1 billion of bonds with maturities between five and 10
years, according to three people familiar with the offering.
India’s second-biggest lender is rated Ba1 by Moody’s and BBB-
by S&P.  IRVING PLACE CAPITAL may issue $250 million of senior
secured notes to help pay for its leveraged buyout of Thermadyne
Holdings Corp. and refinance the company’s debt, Thermadyne
Chief Financial Officer Steven Schumm said in an Oct. 5
interview. The company will also arrange a $60 million asset-
based revolving credit line. Jefferies Group Inc. and Royal Bank
of Canada will manage the sale of six-year bonds, Schumm said.  KOREA NATIONAL OIL CORP. hired Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas
SA, Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG and Korea
Development Bank for a sale of dollar bonds, a person familiar
with the deal said on Oct. 6. The company known as KNOC said in
September it plans to raise between $500 million and $1 billion
to fund acquisitions. KNOC is rated A1 by Moody’s and A by S&P.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
has not decided on the size of the bond, he said.  AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC.  is planning its first
debt offering since its bailout two years ago as the insurer
moves toward independence from the U.S. government, Chairman
Steve Miller said Sept. 29.  TURKIYE IS BANKASI AS , a Turkish bank, applied to Turkey’s
capital markets regulator to sell dollar-denominated bonds
abroad, according to a filing with the Istanbul Stock Exchange.  AEGIS LTD., an outsourcing unit of Essar Group, may sell
the first non-convertible dollar bonds from an Indian
information technology company. The company, which bought
PeopleSupport Inc. in 2008, may sell its bonds as part of a
financing package that would include a loan of as much as $350
million to consolidate debt, Chief Financial Officer C.M. Sharma
said.  GATX CORP ., a Chicago-based company that leases railroad
cars and other equipment, filed a shelf registration with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to sell debt securities and
pass-through certificates. The debt securities may be senior or
subordinated, according to the filing.  JSW STEEL LTD , India’s third-largest steelmaker, plans to
sell dollar bonds for the first time in three years and as
rupee-denominated finance costs rise. JSW has applied for credit
ratings before a possible offshore bond sale to help build a 200
billion rupee ($4.3 billion) steel and power plant in West
Bengal, Chief Financial Officer  Seshagiri Rao  said.  ARGENTINA may sell $1 billion of bonds due in 2017, El
Cronista newspaper reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. The government is also planning to offer an
exchange for dollar bonds due in 2011 and 2012, the Buenos
Aires-based publication said.  RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP., India’s state-owned lender to
power projects, may sell as much as $300 million of bonds in
U.S. dollars, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
telephone interview. Rural Electrification plans to raise $500
million from debt sales in the year ending March 31, he had said
on April 16.  CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell about
$650 million of Islamic bonds,  Dahlan Siamat , director for
Islamic financing at the finance ministry, said in a telephone
interview in Jakarta. The government sold its first
international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a Latin Finance conference
in London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of
20 years or more, Steneri said.  MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire banks including
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the
sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to be named as
the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25 billion from
a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia is rated A3
by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government was considering a
“no-deal roadshow” to gauge international investors’ appetite,
Kwetey said in a May 26 interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its
first global bond in 2007, raising $750 million to help fund the
construction of roads and power plants.  ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds in 2010
and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be sold
according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 years
to 10 years, Finance Minister Sangajav Bayartsogt said in a Feb.
9 interview. The securities may yield 8 percent to 11 percent,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 