-- Chevy Volt Buyers Won't Get California's $3,000 Rebate for 2011
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-10-27T21:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/chevy-volt-buyers-won-t-get-california-s-3-000-rebate-for-2011-on-rating.html
Buyers of General Motors Co.’s 2011
Chevrolet Volt won’t get California’s $3,000 rebate for the most
advanced cars while  Toyota Motor Corp. ’s Prius plug-in hybrid
that can’t drive as far without gas qualifies for an incentive.  GM opted to certify 2011 model year Volts as so-called
ultra-low emission vehicles for sale in California with state
regulators. To qualify the Volt for the $3,000 rebate, GM needs
to get several higher certifications from the California Air
Resources Board. GM said it plans to do that for the 2012 model.  The Volt’s certification is ironic because the car can
drive longer without running its gasoline engine than the plug-
in version of the Prius, the world’s top-selling hybrid. The
Volt has the same rating as  Honda Motor Co. ’s gas-powered Civic
compact car and some versions of the midsize Accord sedan.  “It is challenging to meet our stringent exhaust and
evaporative emissions requirements, along with the challenges of
designing a plug-in vehicle,” Elise Keddie, manager of zero-
emission vehicle implementation for California’s Air Resources
Board, said yesterday in an interview.  To qualify, the car must meet standards for tailpipe
emissions and pass another test that measures evaporative
emissions for fuel in the tank and fuel lines. The car also must
have a 10-year, 150,000-mile warranty on its battery pack. The
Volt has an eight-year, 100,000-mile warranty.  Pure electric cars like  Nissan Motor Co. ’s Leaf, which goes
on sale in December, do not need a 10-year, 150,000-mile
warranty to qualify for California’s rebate. Nissan has an
eight-year, 100,000-mile warranty on its battery like the Volt
does, Brian Brockman, a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Federal Rebate  Volt buyers will still get a $7,500 rebate from the federal
government. GM expects to have the car certified for
California’s most-stringent certifications by 2012,  Tony Posawatz , who directs Volt operations, said yesterday in an
interview.  The Volt goes 25 to 50 miles on electric drive before a
gasoline engine starts charging the battery. By comparison,
Toyota’s plug-in Prius travels about 15 miles on battery power
before its gasoline engine engages. It is certified by
California as the cleanest type of rechargeable hybrid, Keddie
said.  Posawatz said  GM  didn’t certify the Volt to meet
California’s most stringent environmental regulations because
the company wanted to get the car ready for all 50 states first.
It was less expensive and faster to get the car ready for
nationwide sale first, he said.  GM is still tweaking the Volt’s battery to improve
performance, making it more difficult to win certification while
changes are being made, Posawatz said.  Sales Plans  The company doesn’t expect the lack of a government rebate
to hurt sales. GM plans to sell 10,000 Volts next year and
45,000 in 2012, Posawatz said.  “We’re going to sell every one of these the first year,”
he said.  Volt production will begin in November, GM said. It will
initially be sold in California, Washington D.C., New York and
Austin, Texas. In March, GM will expand sales into New York
state, New Jersey, Connecticut, Michigan and the rest of Texas.  John O’Dell , editor of GreenCarAdvisor.com, said the state
only has enough cash to help sell about 1,000 cars right now.
The state may allocate more money for hybrid and electric-car
incentives.  A lot of the existing funds will probably go to buyers of
Nissan’s electric Leaf, O’Dell said. GreenCarAdvisor is part of
Edmunds.com, a website based in Santa Monica, California, that
researches car pricing and gives buying tips.  2012 Mandate  GM must certify the Volt or another model as an “enhanced,
advanced-technology, partial zero-emission vehicle” by the 2012
model year.  From that period through 2014 models, at least three
percent of vehicles sold in the state by GM,  Ford Motor Co. ,
Toyota, Honda, Nissan and Chrysler Group LLC must either be the
cleanest type plug-ins or powered by batteries or hydrogen.  California regulators estimate the combined number of
vehicles required to be sold by the six biggest automakers in
the state during the 2012 through 2014 period will be about
63,000 plug-ins, battery-electric models and hydrogen cars.
Volume requirements grow from 2015.  California, the biggest auto market in the U.S., has had
authority since the 1970s to set air-quality rules that exceed
national standards owing to persistent pollution problems.  Jana Hartline , a spokeswoman for Toyota, wasn’t immediately
able to discuss how much of a California rebate the plug-in
Prius will receive when it goes on sale in late 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net 
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  