-- Chinese Government `Confused' by U.S. Probe of Green Aid, Trade Group Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-10-27T16:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/chinese-government-confused-by-u-s-probe-of-green-aid-trade-group-says.html
The Chinese government is facing
contradictory criticism from the U.S. and a UN green investment
program over subsidies to its clean-energy industry, a Chinese
industry group said.  The U.S. government probe into a union complaint that China
is unfairly subsidizing its clean-energy companies contrasts
with allegations that Beijing is providing less support than it
could to its wind generators,  Li Junfeng , secretary general of
the Chinese Renewable Energy Industries Association, said in an
interview today.  “The Chinese government is confused,” he said in Noida,
outside the Indian capital of New Delhi. “They don’t know what
to do.”  The Obama administration is investigating a complaint from
the United Steelworkers union that alleges China is doing too
much to help its companies expand clean-energy sales, a
violation of global trade rules.  Li said that contradicts criticism that China lowered its
wind subsidies to allow the sector to attract more investment
from the UN Clean Development Mechanism, a program that awards
tradable credits to projects in developing countries that help
reduce emissions.  “The Clean Development Mechanism’s executive board says
China gives too little support to renewable, so that’s why all
projects are happening in China,” Li said. “Then the U.S. says
you have too much subsidies.”  Accepting the steelworkers’ petition may lead President
 Barack Obama ’s administration to file a protest at the World
Trade Organization over subsidies that the union says are
contrary to trade rules.  ‘Ridiculous Situation’  “It’s a very ridiculous situation,” said  Huang Ming ,
president of  Himin Solar Energy Group , a maker of solar panels,
water heaters and lights. The clean-energy industry is too small
to be causing a barrier to business at this stage for the steel
industry, he said.  China Development Bank, a state-owned lender, this year
agreed to more than $42 billion of loans to Chinese solar-panel
and wind-turbine makers. China’s Commerce Ministry on Oct. 16
called the U.S. complaint “groundless” and “irresponsible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  