-- China Commodities Decline on Concern Regulators to Tighten Trading Rules
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-27T06:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/china-commodities-decline-on-concern-regulators-to-tighten-trading-rules.html
Commodities in China snapped a rally,
led by rice, zinc, soybean oil and rubber, on growing concerns
that security regulators may tighten trading rules to curb
excessive speculation.  The Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange, China’s first such bourse,
yesterday increased the margin requirement for rice, rapeseed
oil, wheat and sugar trading to 8 percent from 3 percent or 4
percent, a statement on its website said yesterday. The exchange
will track “abnormal” trade and recommend investigation
by watchdogs, a separate statement dated Oct. 25 said.  China’s increased liquidity after the financial crisis and
government curbs on property investments have stoked commodity
prices. In the past six months, cotton in Zhengzhou returned 61
percent, rubber in Shanghai gained 34 percent, zinc in Shanghai
rose 9.2 percent, while Dalian soybean oil gained 20 percent.  “The government has had to battle anything from
speculation in mung beans to garlic in the past and has shown
increasing signs of wanting to intervene in futures,”  Tommy Xiao , analyst at Shanghai JC Intelligence Co., said by phone
from Shanghai. “But it’s like the game Whack-A-Mole: as they
knock down one product, another one pops up.”  On the Dalian Commodity Exchange, soybean oil for May
delivery plunged this morning by as much as 2.3 percent to 9,240
yuan ($1,384) a ton. The most-active early indica rice contract
in Zhengzhou fell as much as 1.7 percent to 2,409 yuan, while
Shanghai rubber declined as much as 3.3 percent to 31,600 yuan a
ton. Zinc in Shanghai plunged as much as 3.2 percent to 20,500
yuan a ton.  ‘No Concrete Measures’  “We have yet to see concrete measures by the government,”
 Wang Chen , director of research at Wanda Futures Co., said by
phone in Beijing. “We have heard there will be a meeting this
afternoon in Zhengzhou, which may attempt to define what’s
considered abnormal trading.”  Security regulators will likely impose further trading
limits on other products if self-regulation by bourses and the
futures industry fails to cool the markets, Wang said. China’s
futures exchanges are directly controlled by the China
Securities Regulatory Commission, according to their websites.  Calls to Zhengzhou exchange’s media department seeking
comments on the reported meeting today were not answered.  -- William Bi . Editors:  Matthew Oakley ,  Jarrett Banks .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Bi  in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  