-- China to Offer Shale-Gas Blocks to Domestic Companies
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-27T07:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/china-to-offer-shale-gas-blocks-to-domestic-companies-in-auction.html
China will offer shale-gas blocks to
the nation’s biggest energy companies as the world’s largest
polluter aims to increase the use of cleaner-burning fuels to
help reduce carbon dioxide emissions.  The government will offer six shale-gas exploration blocks
to PetroChina Co., China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., Cnooc Ltd.
and Shaanxi Yanchang Petroleum Group Co. in an auction to take
place within a month,  Zhang Dawei , deputy director of oil and
gas strategy research at the Ministry of Land and Resources,
said at a conference in Shanghai today.  China plans to tap its unconventional gas resources,
including gas in shale, to help cut reliance on oil and coal.
The country may have 26 trillion cubic meters of shale-gas
reserves, more than 10 times its proven holdings of conventional
natural gas, according to Zhang.  “China is placing increasing importance on shale gas as it
could be a significant source of energy in the future,” said
 Shi Yan , an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. in Shanghai. “The
development is still in its very early stages, but Chinese
energy companies are looking closely at this.”  The shale-gas blocks up for auction, each as large as 7,000
square kilometers (2,700 square miles), are in the provinces of
Guizhou, Shanxi, Anhui and Zhejiang, and the municipality of
Chongqing, Zhang said. The government considers offering an
exploration subsidy of between 0.23 yuan (3 cents) and 0.30 yuan
per cubic meter, according to Zhang.  China aims to have 1 trillion cubic meters of proven shale-
gas reserves by 2020, Zhang said. Production may reach the
equivalent of as much as 12 percent of conventional gas output
by then, he said.  Foreign Participation  PetroChina signed an agreement with Royal Dutch Shell Plc
last year to explore for shale gas in the southwestern province
of Sichuan.  Shell  may invest $1 billion annually in the country
in the next five to seven years should two wells there show
potential for commercial production, Chief Financial Officer
Simon Henry said on Sept. 14.  China is seeking to triple the use of gas to about 10
percent of energy consumption by 2020. The country will
gradually open shale-gas exploration to foreign and private
companies, Zhang said, without giving a timeframe.  The U.S. and China will jointly appraise reserves in
northern China and Jiangsu province after the countries signed a
cooperation agreement last November, according to Zhang.  China will separately start an appraisal of the country’s
shale-gas reserves next year and the survey will take three
years to complete, Zhang said. The government has drawn up
supportive policies for shale-gas development and is waiting for
the right time to implement them, he said.  U.S. Shale Gas  All shale-gas projects in China are currently trials, Zhang
said. It will take more than three years at least for production
to reach sizable proportions, and that requires construction of
pipelines, according to Zhang.  Last year, the U.S. surpassed Russia as the world’s largest
producer of natural gas as shale-gas output rose to 10 percent
of total supplies from 2 percent in 1990 in what BP Plc’s former
Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward called a “quiet
revolution.”  Cnooc, China’s biggest offshore oil producer, said this
month it will pay $1.08 billion for a one-third stake in
Chesapeake Energy Corp.’s Eagle Ford shale gas project in Texas.  -- Winnie Zhu  in Shanghai and  John Duce  in Hong Kong. Editors:
 Ryan Woo ,  Amit Prakash .  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net ;
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 