-- China's Cabinet Targets Food, Property Prices as Nation Maintains Momentum
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-27T09:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/china-s-cabinet-targets-food-property-prices-as-nation-maintains-momentum.html
China aims to stabilize food costs
and rein in excessive property-price gains in some cities as the
economy maintains momentum, the cabinet said today.  The government will ensure adequate grain production and
crack down on commodity hoarding, the State Council said in a
statement on the fourth-quarter economy after a meeting two days
ago chaired by Premier  Wen Jiabao . Local authorities must
“seriously” implement property curbs and build more low-cost
homes, it said.  Chinese policy makers are focused on price risks even as
growth moderates in the economy that overtook Japan’s in size in
the second quarter.  Inflation  rose to an almost two-year high in
September, while the  economic expansion  in the third quarter was
the smallest in a year.  The government’s “priority” is to contain inflation and a
housing-price bubble, said  Shen Jianguang , a Hong Kong-based
economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd.  The economy “is moving in the expected direction” set by
macro-control policies, growth is steady and relatively fast,
and momentum has been “further cemented,” the cabinet  said  in
the statement on a government website. It highlighted a “very
complicated” international environment and a “notable
increase” in external challenges, without being more specific.  The statement today didn’t mention the nation’s previously
stated “proactive” fiscal policy and “moderately loose”
monetary stance. Shen said officials may move this quarter to a
neutral setting, from an expansionary approach.  Cooling Economy  Economic growth  slowed to 9.6 percent last quarter from
10.3 percent in the previous three months as the government
countered real-estate speculation and limited energy use by
heavy industry.  The central bank this month raised benchmark interest rates
for the first time since 2007 to rein in inflation and property
speculation. Consumer prices rose 3.6 percent last month from a
year earlier, exceeding the government’s target of 3 percent for
the full year.  The cabinet also said it will not relax efforts to meet
energy-efficiency goals. It vowed to control government spending,
guide financial institutions to improve the structure of their
lending and step up management of local-government borrowing.  -- Li Yanping . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Lily Nonomiya .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  