-- China Toymakers Reject Clients as Yuan Gains Hurt Margins
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-28T10:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/china-toymakers-turn-away-customers-as-yuan-strength-threatens-3-margins.html
Lucy Liang, a sales manager for
 Jiangsu Zhongxin Toys Co. , disappointed potential clients from
the U.S. and Europe inspecting the pink and yellow teddy bears
crowding the toymaker’s stall at  China’s biggest trade fair .  “My boss orders us to turn down all the orders for the
good of the company” because China’s yuan may rise, crimping
profit margins, said Liang as she sipped pu-er tea in a corner
of her stand. “Even first-class economists can’t predict
whether the yuan will appreciate or by how much. How could
we?”  The country’s toymakers accept profit margins of as narrow
as 3 percent to stay competitive. The low profitability,
coupled with payment periods of three months or more, means
they are particularly vulnerable to currency fluctuations, said
 Lin Songli , an analyst with Guosen Securities in Beijing.  The yuan has gained 6.3 percent against the euro and 2.1
percent against the dollar so far this year. It traded at 6.69
to the dollar today in Shanghai, compared with 6.83 at the
beginning of the year.  “If the yuan rises to 6 to the dollar, we’re doomed,”
said Simon Pan, general manager of closely held Zhejiang
Huangyan Hongfan Toys Factory. It’s raising prices by 3 percent
to 5 percent to offset the Chinese currency’s gains, and
further increases would mean losing customers, he said in an
interview at his booth, which was filled with educational toys
and metal brainteasers destined for the U.S.  Hanoi Meeting  Adding to the companies’ concerns, Asian leaders meeting
in Hanoi this week may discuss calls for China to accelerate
yuan gains after the Group of 20 finance chiefs agreed Oct. 23
in South Korea to refrain from weakening currencies to boost
exports.  China  has capped the yuan’s rise to about 2 percent since
a June pledge to introduce more flexibility, leading to
criticism that it provides an unfair advantage to its exporters.
Premier  Wen Jiabao  has said a rapid climb for the currency
would cause social and economic turmoil, hobbling the world’s
fastest-growing major economy.  Some manufacturers say they’ve already been affected by
the currency’s gains as clients from the U.S., Europe and Japan
continue to expect cheap prices when buying in China.  “Since the government re-valued the yuan, we have been
declining long-term orders -- anything beyond six months --
because we might even lose money by then,” said Lin Ying, a
sales manager at closely held, Guangdong-based Shantou Meichang
Plastic Factory, which makes plastic blocks and beach toys.
“If the yuan keeps rising, life would certainly be even harder
for us,” she said.  Inflatable Hot Tubs  Customers expect the same prices as last year, said Susie
Ying, general manager for  Shanghai Master Plastic Products . The
maker of inflatable hot tubs and beach toys had to raise prices
by about 15 percent, even as “most of our customers can only
accept a 7 percent to 8 percent rise,” Ying said. Her company
is trying to boost domestic sales while focusing on selling more
expensive items because their margins tend to be better.  “From the purchase orders we received, high-value toys
have taken the lead on demand,” said Karson Choi, executive
director of  Early Light International (Holdings) Ltd. , a
closely held Hong Kong-based toymaker whose clients include
 Mattel Inc.  The company didn’t attend the Canton Fair.  Still,  Dalian Ponytoy Co. , which sells rideable toy horses
and zebras at a wholesale price of $200, said it’s also hurt by
gains in the Chinese currency.  “Two months ago, the dollar-yuan exchange rate was 6.8,
now it’s 6.65,” said Tony Nie, general manager of the closely
held Dalian-based company. “This has a huge impact on us. A
few years ago, the exchange rate was 8 yuan to the dollar.”  Geithner’s View  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said during
the G20 meetings that he expects China will allow the yuan to
strengthen because officials understand it’s in the interest
both of domestic growth and global economic stability.  Almost 70 percent of exporters project a decrease in
orders if the yuan strengthens by another 2 percent against the
U.S. dollar, according to a survey of 239 Chinese suppliers by
Global Sources Ltd.  “Many companies, particularly those in labor-intensive
industries, are running on paper-thin margins and have no room
to absorb currency-exchange losses,”  Craig Pepples , Global
Sources’ chief operating officer, said in an e-mailed statement.  In contrast, Mattel, the world’s largest toymaker, posted
a  profit margin  of 9.7 percent last year, while No. 2  Hasbro
Inc.  had 9.2 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Zhejiang Sunny Import & Export Co. , which sells wooden
blocks that can be rearranged to resemble vehicles and robots,
tried to hedge against currency losses. It billed in euros,
then lost money when the currency dropped against the yuan,
officially known as the renminbi, said manager Liam Zhu.  “We changed back to the U.S. dollar, but now the U.S.
dollar is fluctuating and the renminbi is still appreciating,”
said Zhu.  -- Michael Wei  and  Stephen Engle . Editors:  Frank Longid ,  Bret Okeson   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  