-- China Southern Airlines Profit Surges Almost 10-Fold on Rebound in Travel
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-27T13:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/china-southern-air-third-quarter-profit-surges-on-travel-yuan.html
China Southern Airlines Co. , the
nation’s biggest carrier, said third-quarter profit surged
almost 10-fold as air travel rebounded and the yuan
strengthened.  Net income  increased to 3.04 billion yuan ($455 million)
from 284 million yuan a year earlier, the  Guangzhou-based
company  said in Shanghai stock exchange statement today. Sales
increased 45 percent to 23.2 billion yuan.  China Southern flew 18 percent more passengers in the
period than a year earlier as the global economic revival and a
stronger currency spurred travel demand. Yuan appreciation also
pared the value of dollar-denominated debt the airline built up
from buying Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS planes.  “Passenger traffic has rebounded and the foreign exchange
gain is helping them,”  Kelvin Lau , an analyst at Daiwa
Institute of Research in Hong Kong, said before the earnings
announcement. “The results will continue to look good for the
rest of this year.”  The airline flew 21.4 million passengers in the quarter,
compared with 18.1 million a year earlier, based on its  monthly
traffic figures .  Rivals’ Profit Outlook  China Eastern Airlines Corp. and Air China Ltd., the
nation’s No. 2 and No. 3 carriers, will also probably post
increases when they report earnings tomorrow, according to
Daiwa’s Lau. Asia-Pacific carriers will likely post a combined
$5.2 billion profit in 2010, more than double a previous
forecast of $2.2 billion, the International Air Transport
Association said in September.  China Southern fell 6.6 percent to HK$5.52 in Hong Kong
trading today, before the earnings announcement. The  stock  has
more than doubled this year, compared with 80 percent gains for
both Air China and China Eastern. In Shanghai, China Southern
today dropped 3.7 percent to 12.11 yuan today.  Of 25  analysts  tracked by Bloomberg in the past 12 months,
14 recommended that investors “buy” China Southern’s Hong
Kong-listed stock, seven had “hold” ratings, while the
remainder said “sell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sue Ling Chan  in Singapore at 
 slchan@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  