-- China Should Buy More Gold to Diversify Reserves, Ministry Newspaper Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-27T13:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/china-should-buy-more-gold-to-diversify-reserves-ministry-newspaper-says.html
China should buy more gold to
diversify its foreign exchange reserves, International Business
Daily, a newspaper affiliated with the Ministry of Commerce,
reported.  China should increase its gold holdings if the country
aspires to “internationalize” its currency, the paper said on
its  website , citing Meng Qingfa, a researcher at the China
Chamber of International Commerce. The 1,054 metric tons of gold
reserves are inadequate, compared with the 8,133 tons held by
the U.S. and 3,408 tons by Germany, he was cited as saying.  China has $2.6 trillion of foreign-exchange reserves,
mostly in dollar assets, Meng said. Such holdings will put China
at a disadvantage when the U.S. dollar depreciates, as is
inevitable amid a worsening U.S. debt problem, he said.  China and India will continue to drive demand for gold
jewelry going into the fourth quarter, Bank of China
International Holdings Ltd. said in a report on Sept. 27.  India enters a peak season for weddings and the Diwali
festival in October-November and Chinese people typically
increase their purchases of gold before the Lunar New Year.  Gold demand in China, the world’s largest producer, already
gained in the first half of this year as government measures to
cool the property market and falling equities spurred
investment, the Shanghai Gold Exchange said July 7.  Gold climbed to a record $1,387.35 an ounce on Oct. 14 as
investors sought to protect their wealth amid concerns about the
global economic recovery, and is headed for a 10th consecutive
annual increase.  Sales of gold products such as bars and coins by  China
National Gold Group Corp ., owner of the country’s largest
deposit of the metal, jumped as much as 40 percent in the first
half, Song Quanli, deputy party secretary at the company, said
July 7.  Gold Output  China’s gold output may rise to 340 tons this year, from
314 tons last year, solidifying the nation’s position as the
world’s largest producer, Zhang Fengkui, section chief of the
raw materials department at the Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology, said on Oct. 16.  To increase physical gold supply, the central bank also
said on Aug. 4 that it will “increase the number of commercial
banks who are qualified to import and export gold, based on the
market demand situation.” The central bank also said it will
support overseas investment plans by “large-scale” bullion
companies by backing them financially.  Still, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, which
manages the nation’s reserves, said in July that U.S. government
debt has the benefits of “relatively good” safety, liquidity,
low trading costs and market capacity.  Gold is unlikely to become a major holding in China’s
foreign reserves because of the metal’s big price swings and
lack of interest payments, SAFE said then.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the Bloomberg News staffs on this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  