-- Christie Ends New Jersey-Manhattan Commuter-Rail Tunnel Project
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-10-27T23:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/christie-ends-hudson-river-rail-tunnel-project-on-concern-over-rising-cost.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
ended the largest U.S. mass-transportation project, saying the
state couldn’t afford the potential cost overruns of a commuter-
rail tunnel under the Hudson River to New York.  Christie, 48, a first-term Republican, said the decision is
final, ending a review of ways to save the project that began
more than two weeks ago at the request of U.S. Transportation
Secretary  Ray LaHood . The governor halted work Oct. 7, citing
concern that the initial $8.7 billion price might rise as much
as $5 billion.  “In the end my decision has not changed,” Christie told
reporters in Trenton today. “I cannot place upon the citizens
of New Jersey an open letter of credit. What proponents are
asking me to do is hand over a blank check. I simply will not do
that.”  The tunnel was designed to supplant a century-old link
shared by New Jersey Transit and Amtrak, the U.S. intercity
railroad. It would double the number of trains that New Jersey
Transit, which has reached capacity during peak times, can run
into Manhattan, according to the project website.  Christie said the decision followed an “honest and frank”
discussion with LaHood. The state is interested in working with
Amtrak, the nation’s passenger railroad, to build a tunnel on
terms that are more favorable to New Jersey, he said.  New Jersey’s Share  The federal government and Port Authority of New York & New
Jersey were each scheduled to pay $3 billion for the 8.8-mile
(14-kilometer)  Access to the Region’s Core  tunnel, while New
Jersey was slated to cover the remaining $2.7 billion. Christie
said the arrangement exposed his state to any extra costs.  The state’s share grew to at least $3.5 billion, and the
U.S. government didn’t offer guarantees on cost overruns,
Christie told reporters. The U.S. did offer a combination of
low-interest loans, he said.  LaHood’s agency also proposed funding options including
increasing the federal share by $358 million, saving $700
million by scaling back the tunnel’s design and entering into a
$1.85 billion public-private partnership to build the station on
34th Street in Manhattan where the tube would terminate,
Christie said.  New Jersey will have to repay as much as $350 million that
the federal government already gave the state for initial work,
LaHood said in a statement. The project could be completed for
about $9.8 billion with “aggressive cost control measures,” he
said.  Transportation Fund  It’s unclear how the state will spend the $2.7 billion
slated for the tunnel, Christie said. He said he hasn’t decided
whether to redirect it to the state’s Transportation Trust Fund,
which is poised to run out of money for new projects next year.  The governor has said he doesn’t want a repeat of Boston’s
Big Dig, the most expensive public-works project in U.S.
history. The work, which replaced an elevated highway with
tunnels, was estimated to cost $5 billion when ground was
broken. It tripled to $14.8 billion after overruns and
structural problems.  According to documents released today by U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a Democrat, the public-private proposal included a
provision insulating the state from overages by transferring
those costs to private contractors. LaHood also offered a $2.3
billion rail loan with maturities as long as 35 years,
Lautenberg said.  LaHood said Oct. 22 the cost of building the tunnel ranged
from $9.7 billion to as high as $12.7 billion. Those projections
didn’t include the $775 million cost to build a second span of
the Portal Bridge, which leads trains to the current tunnel.  Capacity Increase  The U.S. estimated an 83 percent chance that the tunnel’s
price would be at or below the higher end of that range,
Christie said today.  The Regional Plan Association, a New York-based advocacy
group, had said the project would double the number of New
Jerseyans within a 50-minute train ride of New York and boost
property values.  Neysa Pranger , a spokeswoman for the group,
said the project was the largest funding commitment ever by the
Federal Transit Administration.  State Assembly Transportation Committee Chairman  John Wisniewski , a Democrat, called the decision “a monumental
failure of leadership,” saying the project would have created
6,000 “immediate” jobs while reducing congestion. The move is
a “brutal blow” to the state’s economy, Wisniewski said in a
statement. The project broke ground last year.  Job Losses  New Jersey, the state with the second-highest per capita
income, lost 20,200 nonfarm jobs in September, the state labor
department said this month. The jobless rate fell to 9.4 percent
from 9.6 percent in August, mostly because people left the labor
force, the department said.  Christie said today that LaHood told him the state had lost
its $3 billion in federal money and that the funds will likely
go to other projects across the country.  Amtrak is “interested” in talks with New Jersey about
constructing a new tunnel, though the agency was unaware of
Christie’s statement, said  Marc Magliari , a spokesman for the
railroad. “We’re happy to have a conversation with them and we
want to have it. There certainly is a capacity issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  