-- Citigroup Banker Testifies He Didn't Give Hands Bid Information
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/citigroup-s-wormsley-denies-giving-bid-information-to-hands-about-emi-sale.html
David Wormsley , the  Citigroup Inc. 
banker accused of misleading Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd.
about an auction for EMI Group Ltd., denied giving bid
information to the firm’s founder,  Guy Hands .  Wormsley testified yesterday in a federal court trial in
New York that he didn’t remember many specifics of the sale
because he had been sidelined -- “kicked to the curb,” in the
words of Citigroup lawyer  Ted Wells  -- as an adviser on the deal
by EMI in favor of Greenhill & Co.  “I played a very junior role in this transaction,”
Wormsley told jurors at the start of a second full day of
testimony.  Wormsley, 50, who was called as a hostile witness by Terra
Firma, testified under questioning by Wells that he played only
a minor role in the deal, confined to working on the financing.
He said he never told Hands to bid 2.65 pounds ($4.17) a share
for EMI, or that Cerberus Capital Management LP planned to make
a competing offer of 2.62 pounds a share, as Hands claims.  Hands, who testified over four days, claims Terra Firma was
forced to overpay for EMI, which has lost money since the deal,
because Wormsley misled him about the bidding in three telephone
calls during the weekend before the auction on Monday, May 21,
2007.  Cerberus didn’t bid, leaving Terra Firma without
competition in the auction for the 113-year-old music publishing
and recording company based in London. Terra Firma claims that
if it had known the truth, it would have sought more information
about EMI’s business and finances and negotiated a lower price.  Citigroup Financing  Wormsley testified earlier that he and Hands discussed only
Citigroup’s financing of the deal, denying, under questioning by
Terra Firma lawyer  David Boies , that they discussed details of
the Terra Firma bid.  In his testimony on Oct. 26, Wormsley repeatedly said that
he didn’t recall details of his conversations with Hands in the
days leading up to the bidding.  “On numerous occasions you responded ‘I don’t recollect,’
right? Twenty or thirty times,” Wells asked him yesterday.
Wormsley agreed when Wells asked him if part of the reason he
didn’t remember was that he had been pushed aside by former EMI
Chairman  John Gildersleeve  and  Simon Borrows  of Greenhill.  ‘Go-Between’  Wormsley characterized his role in the deal as a go-
between, fielding calls from Hands, who was pushing the
Citigroup financing team to line up the 2.5 billion pounds that
would be necessary to bid on EMI in just 14 days.  Wormsley testified that he first learned that Terra Firma
questioned his role in the EMI deal when it sued Citigroup in
December. Hands, who testified that he and Wormsley were friends
and business associates, never complained to him, Wormsley said.
Wormsley said he has known Hands since 1997.  After the deal and before the lawsuit, Wormsley said Hands
invited him to a pheasant shoot and a clay pigeon shoot. The two
men attended dinner and the opera together in London with their
wives, he said.  Wormsley yesterday expanded on his testimony that Hands
lied, on the Friday before the auction, when he told the EMI
negotiating team that Wormsley had told him the EMI board would
accept a bid of 2.40 pounds a share.  Upon learning what Hands had said, Wormsley testified, he
demanded that Hands send an e-mail “clarifying what the
situation really was, so that my position with EMI was not
compromised.”  That afternoon, Terra Firma’s then-general counsel,  Tim Pryce , sent an e-mail saying “there might have been a
misunderstanding” during the call between Hands and the EMI
team that morning.  Wormsley followed with his own e-mail.  ‘Happy to Replay’  “For those who would like something a bit clearer, I am
happy to replay a voicemail on my mobile from Guy Hands, which I
intend to keep for posterity,” Wormsley wrote.  Jurors didn’t hear the voice-mail, which Wormsley said was
an apology from Hands. Sometime later, the voice-mail was
automatically erased, Wormsley testified.  Wormsley completed his testimony yesterday after spending
two days on the stand.  The case is Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. v.
Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 