-- Clinton Starts Asia-Pacific Trip to Build Trade, U.S. Alliances
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-10-27T13:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/clinton-starts-asia-pacific-trip-to-build-trade-u-s-alliances.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  left on a two-week, nine-stop trip to China, Australia,
Vietnam and other Asia-Pacific countries, where she will
emphasize U.S. engagement and commitment to the world’s fastest-
growing economic region.  On the way, she will deliver a “major” address on the
Obama administration’s Asia strategy, said  Kurt Campbell ,
assistant secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific affairs.
She will also push the need for broader U.S. economic and trade
opportunities in the region, he said.  Clinton and President  Barack Obama  have made the Asia-
Pacific region a foreign policy priority. Clinton’s first trip
as Obama’s top diplomat took her to Indonesia, South Korea and
Japan. She used the visit to stress the need for better
cooperation on the global economy and to reaffirm the U.S. as an
Asia-Pacific power, themes she will raise again on the trip that
began today.  Clinton’s trip -- her sixth to the Asia-Pacific region
since taking office in January 2009 -- is “intended to send a
strong message of U.S. engagement on a range of issues --
strategic, political, multilateral,” Campbell said at a
briefing yesterday.  Walter Lohman , director of the Asian Studies Center at the
 Heritage Foundation , a Washington-based policy group, said the
trip was also meant to shore up the image of the U.S.  Changing Perceptions  “There’s a lot of perception in the region that the U.S.
is waning and China is rising, and a large point of this trip is
to counter that perception,” Lohman said in a telephone
interview.  Clinton will emphasize trade and economic topics, said
Campbell, who previously worked on Asia-related issues at the
 National Security Council  and the  Department of Defense .  “At every stop, the secretary will highlight the political
and economic interactions and the desire to promote U.S.  exports 
and see a more forward engagement on economic matters,”
Campbell said.  This trip, Clinton’s longest since she took charge at the
State Department, will take her to Vietnam, China, Cambodia,
Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, New Zealand, Australia and American
Samoa.  En route, Clinton will stop in Honolulu, where she will
meet Japanese Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  to discuss “all
aspects” of the U.S.-Japan bilateral relationship, Campbell
said.  U.S. Strategy  While in Hawaii, she will also meet with U.S. naval
commanders and deliver her speech on U.S. strategy in Asia.  She then touches down on the U.S. territory of Guam to
visit with troops and meet the governor, followed by a stop in
Vietnam for the East Asian Summit, a 16-nation trading bloc that
includes Australia, India and New Zealand. The U.S. is becoming
a member of the bloc and Clinton will be the first high-ranking
U.S. official to attend one of its meetings.  After leaving Vietnam, Clinton will stop briefly on the
Chinese island of Hainan to meet with China’s State Councilor
 Dai Bingguo . They will review issues in the U.S.-China
relationship and discuss preparations for Chinese President  Hu Jintao ’s visit to Washington in January, Campbell said.  Clinton will conduct bilateral meetings with leaders in
Malaysia and Cambodia.  New Zealand Stop  The New Zealand stop is meant to “reaffirm a recommitment
to a relationship that has not received as much attention in the
course of the last 25 years,” Campbell said.  In Papua New Guinea, Clinton will discuss biodiversity, the
status of women and “enormous” gas finds, Campbell said.  Exxon
Mobil Corp.  is leading a $15 billion liquefied gas project in
Papua New Guinea.  The secretary will focus on “how the current government
plans to manage this tremendous windfall that will be coming to
the people of Papua New Guinea through this massive find of
petroleum and natural gas,” Campbell said.  In Australia, Clinton will attend the 25th annual meeting
of U.S. and Australian foreign and defense ministers to discuss
security, cyber security and regional concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  