-- Colombia's Peso Falls to Three-Month Low on Central Bank Currency Measures
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-10-27T19:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/colombia-s-peso-falls-to-three-month-low-on-central-bank-currency-measures.html
Colombia’s peso fell to a three-
month low on bets the central bank will announce additional
measures to ease the peso’s rally after President  Juan Manuel Santos  said the nation will take further steps this week.  The peso dropped to as low as 1,849.50 per U.S. dollar, its
weakest level since July 28. The currency slipped for a fifth
day, falling 0.4 percent to 1,848.53 per dollar at 3:15 p.m. New
York time, from 1,840.35 yesterday. The peso has jumped 10.6
percent this year, the best performance among six major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Government and central bank officials are seeking to ease a
rally in the peso that the country’s business associations said
in a letter this month threatens jobs and “jeopardizes the
Colombian economy’s positive outlook.” Santos, who asked
central bankers in August to take “more bold and creative”
action, said today that the package of currency measures that
will be taken “will help a lot” in stemming gains in the peso,
according to comments posted on the  presidential website .  “More measures are expected given the appreciation
pressures the peso will continue to face,” said Maria Paola
Figueroa, senior economist at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA’s Colombia unit.  Dollar Purchases  Colombia will attract around $10 billion in foreign direct
investment this year and more than $1.2 billion in portfolio
investment, Bogota-based brokerage Corredores Asociados said in
a report last month. The nation received $7.2 billion of foreign
direct investment in 2009 -- of which 80 percent went into oil,
coal and mining -- after a record $10.6 billion the previous
year, according to the central bank.  The central bank said Sept. 15 it will buy a minimum of $20
million daily for at least four months. Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said earlier this month that the government
will keep $1.4 billion equivalent to the August and December
dividend payments from state oil company Ecopetrol SA overseas.  While many market participants are betting officials will
announce further measures after the Oct. 29 monetary policy
meeting, Figueroa expects policy makers will wait for the peso
to strengthen beyond 1,800 before acting.  “Verbal intervention has been effective, and while we’ll
see a clear indication more measures are to come, policy makers
will likely wait until these are really needed,” said Figueroa.  She predicts measures will include boosting the amount of
dollars Banco de la Republica buys daily through auctions and
also imposing capital controls. Colombia may seek to limit
portfolio inflows and borrowing abroad, Figueroa said.  Interbolsa, Colombia’s biggest brokerage, said in a report
this week that policy makers may opt to cut the  overnight
lending rate  from a record low of 3 percent. Bank of America
Corp. said in a report yesterday that while central bankers will
leave the key rate unchanged this month “it is increasingly
likely that the bank’s next action will be a rate cut.”  Maria Mercedes Cuellar , president of Colombia’s banking
association, warned against lowering interest rates in a column
published today in Bogota-based La Republica newspaper.  Cutting rates “would favor the formation of bubbles and
overflow of loans, risking financial stability,” she wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  