-- Comcast Quarterly Profit Tops Estimates on Higher Cable Bills
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-10-27T20:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/comcast-quarterly-profit-tops-estimates-on-higher-cable-bills.html
Comcast Corp. , the largest U.S.
cable-television company, reported third-quarter profit that
beat  analysts’   estimates  as rate increases and sales of products
such as high-speed Internet increased monthly bills.  Net income  fell 8.2 percent to $867 million, or 31 cents a
share, from a year earlier, Comcast said today in a statement.
That topped the 30-cent average of analysts’  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Sales  gained 7.3 percent to $9.49 billion,
compared with a projection of $9.36 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian Roberts  is focused on getting
more from existing customers by selling them additional products
as basic video subscribers decline. In the quarter, 32 percent
of Comcast’s video customers also bought Internet and phone
services, up from 27 percent a year earlier. Higher product
sales combined with rate increases boosted Comcast’s average
monthly revenue per customer 10 percent to $129.75.  “We continue to manage the business for profitable
growth,” Chief Financial Officer  Michael Angelakis , said on a
conference call with analysts. The loss in basic video customers
had a “muted” effect on the company’s financials, he said.  Comcast  gained 63 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $20.27 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has
risen 20 percent this year.  Comcast lost 275,000 basic video customers in the quarter,
as many rolled off low-cost promotions and didn’t choose to
renew their services. Comcast netted 421,000 new Internet,
digital video and phone subscribers combined, less than the
660,000 gain anticipated by  Todd Mitchell , an analyst at Kaufman
Bros. LP in New York who recommends holding the shares.  Cable Peers  “It’s going to be a weak quarter overall for the pay-TV
sector and most of that is due to the economy,” Mitchell said
in an interview. “Comcast should be relatively strong compared
with its cable peers because it has low penetration rates in the
areas it services and more room to sell advanced services.”  Comcast’s operating cash flow rose 7.6 percent to $3.58
billion in the quarter, while the free cash flow metric dropped
7.8 percent to $1.03 billion.  The company is losing basic video subscriber as so-called
over-the-top providers such as online video service Hulu LLC and
movie rental company Netflix Inc. grow. In the second quarter,
the entire pay-TV industry lost 216,000 basic subscribers, the
first such decline on record, according to research firm SNL
Kagan, which tracks the industry.  No Cord-Cutting  The video losses were primarily the result of a weak
economy and not so-called cord-cutting, Comcast said.  “We’re seeing fewer occupied housing units and
unemployment is still a factor,”  Neil Smit , president of
Comcast’s cable unit, said on the conference call. “From an
over-the-top impact, all of our exit surveys have seen almost no
impact.”  More than 40 percent of the company’s video subscriber
losses this year had Comcast’s lower-end, basic video package,
bringing in less than half of the sales of the average video
subscribers, CFO Angelakis said.  Comcast is also vying for video subscribers with phone
companies such as  Verizon Communications Inc. , which competes
with the cable operator in cities including Philadelphia and
Washington with its FiOS service. Comcast also contends with low
cost satellite-TV provider Dish Network Corp. and AT&T Inc.’s U-
verse TV product.  The loss of basic video subscribers is “the only mare in
the numbers,” said  Matthew Harrigan , an analyst at Wunderlich
Securities, in a Bloomberg Television interview. “The video
business is certainly hampered by satellite competition and U-
verse and FiOS.”  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, announced plans to take a
51 percent stake in General Electric Co.’s NBC Universal TV and
film business in a $28 billion joint venture last December. The
companies expect the merger to close by the end of the year
following regulatory scrutiny.  Comcast posted net income of $944 million, or 33 cents a
share, a year earlier, on sales of $8.85 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 Kriddell1@Bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  