-- CommScope Acquired by Carlyle Group for $3.9 Billion
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-27T20:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/commscope-agrees-to-go-private-in-3-9-billion-merger-with-carlyle-group.html
CommScope Inc.  agreed to be taken
private in a $3.9 billion acquisition by the leveraged-buyout
firm Carlyle Group, the biggest takeover in the
telecommunications-equipment industry in at least two years.  The purchase values CommScope at $31.50 per share in cash,
the companies said in a statement. That’s about 36 percent more
than the  closing price  on Oct. 22, the last trading day before
CommScope said it was in talks to be acquired by Washington-
based Carlyle.  CommScope, based in Hickory, North Carolina, is working to
revive sales after the global recession hurt demand last year.
Carlyle is banking on an increase in demand for fiber-optic
networks as phone- and Internet-service providers update their
systems to accommodate increasing amounts of video and data.  CommScope , which sells its products worldwide, said revenue
this quarter will be $730 million to $780 million, missing the
$805.9 million predicted by analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The
company has raised prices as its costs have increased, cutting
into sales, Chief Financial Officer  Jearld Leonhardt  said in a
separate statement.  Sales  a year earlier were $748.5 million.  Shares of CommScope rose $1.19 to $31.41 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading at 4 p.m. The company’s  stock  has
gained 18 percent this year.  Rival Offers  The companies said they expect to close the acquisition in
the first quarter of 2011. Under the merger agreement, CommScope
can shop for better offers through Dec. 5. If CommScope takes
another offer, it must pay a $43.3 million termination fee.  The transaction, according to Bloomberg data, is the
largest announced telecommunications-equipment deal since China
Telecommunications Corp. agreed to buy network assets from China
United Telecommunications Corp. in 2008 for about $9.54 billion.
Equipment maker Avaya Inc. went private in 2007 in a buyout by
Silver Lake and TPG Inc. that was valued at about $8 billion.  There have been four deals disclosed in the industry in the
last year valued at $1 billion or more. The average premium paid
was 43 percent.  The value put on the company is about 7.4 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, according
to Bloomberg data. Similar deals since 2001 had a median  EBITDA 
multiple of 16.8 times.  Members of the senior  management  team, including Chief
Executive Officer  Frank Drendel  and Chief Operating Officer
 Eddie Edwards , will stay at the company, according to the
statement.  Allen & Co. was the financial adviser for CommScope and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  advised Carlyle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  