-- ConocoPhillips Third-Quarter Profit Climbs as Oil Prices Rise
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2010-10-27T20:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/conocophillips-third-quarter-profit-climbs-as-oil-prices-rise.html
ConocoPhillips , the third-largest
U.S. oil producer, said profit more than doubled as oil prices
rose on recovering energy demand and refining margins widened.  Third-quarter net income climbed to $3.06 billion, or $2.05
a share, from $1.47 billion, or 97 cents, a year earlier, the
Houston-based company said today in a statement. Per-share
profit, excluding such items as asset sales, was $1.50, 5 cents
more than the average of 15 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Production  fell to 1.72 million barrels of oil equivalent a
day from 1.79 million in the same period last year and fourth-
quarter production is expected to be 1.71 million, the company
said. ConocoPhillips declined 74 cents, or 1.2 percent, to
$60.08 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The  stock  has climbed 18 percent this year.  ConocoPhillips and other energy companies fell today
because oil was down, said  Robbert Van Batenburg , head of equity
research at Louis Capital Markets LP in New York. Some analysts
may have expected even stronger refining results from the
company, he said.  Oil futures averaged $76.21 a barrel in the quarter, a 12
percent increase from a year earlier, and natural-gas futures
rose 23 percent. The U.S. Energy Department estimates global oil
and liquid fuels  consumption  this year will increase the most
since 2004.  ‘Stronger’ Prices  “Oil and gas prices are certainly much stronger than they
were in the year-ago period, and you also have a significant
improvement in refining margins,”  Ann Kohler , an analyst at
Caris & Co. in New York, said before the earnings announcement.
Kohler has an “above average” rating on ConocoPhillips shares
and owns none.  ConocoPhillips  said third-quarter revenue rose 20 percent
from a year earlier to $49.5 billion. Earnings from producing
oil and gas climbed 60 percent to $1.56 billion, while profit
from refining and marketing more than doubled to $268 million
from $99 million.  ConocoPhillips began cutting about 180 million cubic feet
equivalent per day of gas output in North America in the third
quarter because of low prices.  “I think it was a good performance all across the board,”
said  Brian Youngberg , an analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis
who has a “buy” rating on ConocoPhillips shares and owns none.
“ConocoPhillips’s refining business has always been top notch
and it’s benefiting now from improved refining margins.”  Asset Sales, Purchases  The company is first among the major U.S. oil companies to
report third-quarter  earnings . Exxon Mobil Corp. of Irving,
Texas, is scheduled to announce its results tomorrow. Chevron
Corp., based in San Ramon, California, plans to report earnings
Oct. 29.  ConocoPhillips plans to sell $10 billion of assets over two
years, $7 billion of which may occur this year. The company also
is in the process of selling its entire 20 percent stake in
Russia’s OAO Lukoil. ConocoPhillips has canceled plans to
upgrade a refinery in Germany and it pulled out of a refining
project in Saudi Arabia and an Abu Dhabi natural-gas venture.  The company may spend $2 billion to $3 billion to buy
assets in the Gulf of Mexico and the continental U.S. as it
executes a two-year restructuring plan, Chief Executive Officer
 Jim Mulva  said on an investor conference call today.  ConocoPhillips on Oct. 6 announced a shakeup of its
management team as it established the outlines of a plan for
choosing a successor to  Mulva . The company brought in two
outside executives, promoted or kept four others, and said four
leaders would be retiring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 