-- Continental Flight Attendants Reject New Contract, Raises
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-10-27T20:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/continental-attendants-reject-new-contract-as-airline-merges-with-united.html
Continental Airlines flight
attendants rejected a proposed 26-month contract that would have
raised pay and provided job protection as the carrier combines
operations with United Airlines.  The  agreement  was rejected by 55 percent of attendants
voting, the International Association of Machinist and Aerospace
Workers said today on the union’s website. The Machinists
represent about 9,300 Continental attendants, and 61 percent of
them cast ballots.  The tentative contract would have provided pay, scheduling
and other protections until a vote is held on which union will
represent the attendants at Chicago-based  United Continental
Holdings Inc. , which was created in an Oct. 1 merger with United
Airlines.  “It would have been preferable to have everyone under
contract and under a transition agreement,”  Robert Mann  of
airline consultant R.W. Mann & Co. in Port Washington, New York,
said in an interview. “That would have been an ideal situation
going forward. There’s no telling how much additional time or
effort this might require.”  The two sides began talks in December 2009 and reached the
tentative agreement on Sept. 30.  “It became clear the flight attendants prefer a complete
agreement that provides full recovery of items sacrificed in the
previous round of concessionary bargaining, such as sick leave,
vacation and 401(k) match,” Tom Higginbotham, president of IAM
District Lodge 142 at Continental, said in the  statement.   Ready to Bargain  The union has notified Continental that it is ready to
resume bargaining immediately, he said.  The rejected contract included a 2.5 percent pay increase
retroactive to Jan. 1, a 2.5 percent raise on July 1, 2011, and
a 2 percent boost one year later. It also protected the jobs of
attendants on the union’s seniority list as of today, except in
the case of specific catastrophic events.  “We will continue to seek collective bargaining agreements
with all of our unions that recognize the interests of our
company and our co-workers,” said  Julie King,  a Continental
spokeswoman.  United’s 16,000 flight attendants are represented by the
 Association of Flight Attendants .  Continental and United have said they expect to continue
operating as separate carriers for about a year, until they
receive regulatory approval to fully combine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  