-- Cosco Pacific Doubles Profit as Container-Shipping Rebounds on World Trade
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-10-27T09:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/cosco-pacific-s-third-quarter-net-income-more-than-doubles-to-100-million.html
Cosco Pacific Ltd. , Asia’s third-
largest container-terminal operator, more than doubled quarterly
profit because of a revival in world trade.  Net income climbed to $100 million in the third quarter
from $40 million a year earlier, the Hong Kong-based company
said in a statement to the city’s stock exchange today. Sales
rose 29 percent to $107.5 million.  The company handled 23 percent more containers than a year
earlier as U.S. and European consumer spending rebounded from
last year’s global recession, stoking demand for Asian-made
goods. U.S. holiday  sales  will likely rise 2.3 percent this year,
led by purchases of clothes and electronics, according to the
Washington-based National Retail Federation.  “We’re still seeing growth in demand,” said  Kenny Tang ,
executive director at Redford Assets Management Ltd. in Hong
Kong. “I remain positive about the shipping industry this
year.”  Cosco Pacific  moved  13.3 million 20-foot equivalent boxes
in the third quarter. The company, controlled by China Cosco
Holdings Co., owns or has stakes in more than 20 terminal
operators, predominantly in China and Hong Kong. In the first
nine months, total volumes rose 20 percent to 35.7 million.
Overseas volumes jumped  The terminal operator rose 0.2 percent to HK$12.20 in Hong
Kong trading today. Earnings were announced after the market
close. The  Hang Seng Index  company has risen 24 percent this
year, compared with a 5.9 percent gain for the benchmark index.  Cosco Pacific also has a stake in container-maker  China
International Marine Containers (Group) Co.  and runs a box-
leasing business. The company sold its stake in Cosco Logistic
Co. to its parent last year.  Asia’s two largest container-terminal operators are
Hutchison Port Holdings Ltd. and Singapore-based PSA
International Pte.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  