-- Courier Named Captain of Davis Cup Squad After McEnroe's Decade-Long Run
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-10-27T17:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/courier-named-captain-of-davis-cup-squad-after-mcenroe-s-decade-long-run.html
Jim Courier  is the new U.S. Davis
Cup captain, succeeding  Patrick McEnroe  after a decade-long run
that produced one championship.  The  United States Tennis Association  introduced Courier, a
four-time Grand Slam singles champion and a member of two Davis
Cup-winning teams, at a news conference in New York today.  He’ll direct the U.S. squad in March when it travels to
Chile for the first round of the top team competition in men’s
tennis.  “I can’t tell you how thrilled I am for the chance to lead
this team and follow in Patrick’s footsteps,” Courier said at
the news conference.  McEnroe stepped down as captain on Sept. 6 to focus on his
family and his role leading the USTA’s player development
program. It was the longest tenure as Davis Cup captain in U.S.
history.  Courier, who is a tennis analyst for CBS Sports, said later
that day during a U.S. Open broadcast that he hoped to be
considered for the captain’s job.  Courier, 40, had a 17-10 record as a member of the U.S.
Davis Cup team, and twice won both the Australian Open and
French Open. He was a runner-up at the U.S. Open and Wimbledon,
finishing 1992 with the No. 1 ranking on the ATP World Tour. The
U.S. won the Davis Cup that year and in 1995, with Courier on
both squads.  McEnroe led the U.S. to its record-extending 32nd title in
2007, ending a 12-year drought that was the longest in American
history. The U.S. was eliminated by Serbia in March, the
American team’s first opening-round defeat since 2005.  Getting Younger  Courier said he likely would oversee a transition to a
younger squad than the ones led by McEnroe that included such
veterans as  Andy Roddick ,  James Blake  and the doubles team of
Bob and  Mike Bryan .  “In this time period we have a unique opportunity,” he
said. “We have a great group of veterans who lifted the trophy
with Patrick in 2007, who are still in the heart of their
careers. If I’m able to keep this position over time, there will
be a younger generation to come up.”  Serbia will be seeking its first Davis Cup title when it
takes on nine-time champion France in the Dec. 3-5 final.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 