-- Credit-Default Swap Index in U.S. Increases on Economic Data, Greek Bonds
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-10-27T21:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/credit-default-swaps-index-in-u-s-climbs-as-yields-on-greek-bonds-soar.html
Credit-default swaps in the U.S.
rose for the first time in six days amid weak economic data,
soaring Greek bond yields, and speculation that any Federal
Reserve program to boost the economy will be gradual.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1.5 basis points to a
mid-price of 94 as of 5:26 p.m. in New York, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd. The index typically rises as
investor confidence deteriorates. Swaps gained on banks,
including Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  A “cornucopia” of lackluster news is damping investor
sentiment,  Andrew Kuan , senior trader at Primus Asset
Management, said in an e-mail. Weaker earnings and concerns that
sovereign debt will resurface as an issue helped push the
benchmark for U.S. corporate credit risk higher, he said.  Bookings for capital goods fell in September, signaling a
slowdown in U.S. business investment, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in Washington. Another report revealed
sales of new houses hovered near a record low last month.  “The economic numbers are still a drag,” said  Michael Kraft , senior portfolio manager at Crimson Capital Trading LLC.  Sprint Nextel Corp. posted a wider-than-estimated loss and
SAP AG, the world’s biggest maker of business-management
software, said profit lagged behind analyst forecasts.  Federal Reserve  The Federal Reserve may limit bond purchases to a few
hundred billion dollars at next week’s meeting, the Wall Street
Journal reported, without saying where it got the information.  Swaps on banks gained, with contracts on JPMorgan Chase &
Co. climbing 3.6 basis points to 84.3, and those on Goldman
Sachs adding 3.4 basis points to 126.3, according to data
provider CMA. The cost to protect debt issued by Bank of America
Corp. rose 1.4 basis points to 177.6 after three days of
falling. Swaps on Morgan Stanley increased 6.8 basis points to
158.6, CMA data show.  Credit-default swaps linked to Greek government debt
climbed 74.2 basis points to 752.2, according to CMA. Greek 10-
year bonds tumbled after Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said the country’s budget shortfall last year
as a percentage of gross domestic product will be above 15
percent, after a revision by European authorities. That’s more
than Prime Minister  George Papandreou  indicated on Oct. 7.  A renewal of asset purchases by the U.S. central bank, also
known as quantitative easing, would probably signify the end of
the 30-year  bull market  in bonds, said  Bill Gross , manager of
the world’s largest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management
Co.  ‘Ponzi scheme’  “Check writing in the trillions is not a bondholder’s
friend,” Gross wrote in his monthly investment outlook posted
on Newport Beach, California-based Pimco’s website today. “It
is in fact inflationary, and, if truth be told, somewhat of a
Ponzi scheme. It raises bond prices to create the illusion of
high annual returns, but ultimately it reaches a dead end where
those prices can no longer go up.”  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  