-- Croatia Can Wrap Up EU Talks Next Year, Enter Bloc in 2012, Ministry Says
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2010-10-27T12:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/croatia-can-wrap-up-eu-talks-next-year-enter-bloc-in-2012-ministry-says.html
Croatia said it is sticking to its
2012 European Union entry timetable after European Commissioner
 Jose Barroso  warned earlier this week that “many challenges”
remain in order for the Balkan state to finish talks next year.  “Croatia is in the final stage of negotiations and it
is ready to fulfill all the necessary conditions,” Mario
Dragun, chief spokesman for the  Ministry of Foreign Affairs and
European Integration , said in an interview today. “It is
realistic to expect that the negotiations will be finalized
during the EU Hungarian presidency in the first half of 2011.”  Croatia is seeking to become the next country to join the
EU and has wrapped up negotiations or is close to completion in
31 out of 33 areas before it can sign the accession treaty with
the bloc. Existing member states must then approve membership, a
process than can take as long as a year.  Barroso said on Oct. 25 that while the country has a
“chance” at entering in 2012, delays in overhauling the
judiciary and competition policies could delay the end of talks
to the end of next year, meaning Croatia probably wouldn’t
become the 28th member of the EU until 2013.  “The remaining big challenge is political, but Croatia
will make it,” said  Vesna Pusic , head of the parliamentary
committee overseeing entry talks. “We absolutely can finish the
negotiations on time. This is our political duty.”  ‘Step Forward’  Pusic, who heads the opposition  Croatian People’s Party, 
said the country’s efforts to modernize the judiciary had taken
a “huge step forward” with passage of a law on July 9 that
will require members of the state judicial board be elected in a
secret ballot among the judges, and not by a parliamentary
majority as before. The first ballot should be held on Jan. 20.  “This doesn’t mean that overnight we will have an
independent judiciary, but now we have a foundation to build
on,” Pusic said. The board is an 11-member body that nominates
and oversees judges serving in courts across the Adriatic coast
country.  Croatian Premier  Jadranka Kosor  has made the fight against
corruption a centrepiece of her government and at least 20
officials from the ruling  Croatian Democratic Union  are under
investigation or are being prosecuted for crimes related to
corruption and abuse of power since August.  Kosor faces a vote of no-confidence in her Cabinet today as
the opposition leaders say the ruling party is also damaged by
corruption scandals and should be replaced.  Croatia, which saw its membership bid stalled by 10 months
amid a dispute with Slovenia over border issues, will receive a
progress report from the EU about its membership drive in early
November.  Past EU assessments have criticized efforts to clear court
backlogs, carry out anti-corruption plans and facilitate the
return of Serb refugees dating back to the Yugoslav civil war.
Croatia also needs to improve competition policies, which
include the sale of its five money-losing shipyards.  ‘Strong Woman’  Kosor, who on Oct. 25 was described as a “strong woman”
by European Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding  for her anti-
corruption efforts, told reporters in Brussels the same day
she is “confident the work shall be done by the end of the
year.”  The messages from Barroso and Reding to Croatia were
“positive and encouraging,” said Paul Vandoren, head of the EU
delegation in Zagreb, in a phone interview yesterday. “A lot of
work still needs to be done, and we’ll be looking at how the new
decisions are implemented.”  Damir Grubisa, director of the  European Studies Center  in
Zagreb, said Croatian efforts at joining the EU have been a
“mixed bag” so far. “We have to see the outcome of these
criminal investigations and where they lead,” Grubisa said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Jasmina Kuzmanovic  at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez  at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  