-- Czech Lawmakers Approve Deficit-Cutting 2011 State Budget in 1st Reading
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2010-10-27T14:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/czech-lawmakers-approve-deficit-cutting-2011-state-budget-in-1st-reading.html
Czech lawmakers approved in the
first reading the 2011 state budget draft that narrows the
 deficit  toward the European Union’s limit by cutting spending on
public wages and reducing family subsidies.  The first reading fixed the ceiling for the central state-
 budget  deficit at the government-proposed 135 billion koruna
($7.6 billion). The state budget, the main part of  public
finances  that serve as the fiscal measure for assessing a
country’s readiness to adopt the euro, has a 163 billion-koruna
deficit limit this year.  Prime Minister  Petr Necas ’ government, in office since
July, plans to halve the public finance gap to within the  EU’s 
limit of 3 percent of  gross domestic product  by 2013, from 5.8
percent in 2009, when the country fell into the worst recession
since the end of communism two decades ago.  The government has engaged in “quite an ambitions fiscal
maneuver which should allow a pushing of the deficit of public
finances below 4.6 percent” of GDP in 2011, Necas told
lawmakers when presenting the bill in Prague today.  The budget draft cuts the public finance gap from 5.3
percent estimated this year. The Cabinet plans to reduce the
shortfall to 3.5 percent of GDP in 2012 and to 2.9 percent in
2013. Budget projections are based on an assumption of 2.3
percent economic growth next year.  ‘Reality’  “If the reality is better than the forecast, then any
resulting higher revenue will be used to reduce the deficit,”
Finance Minister  Miroslav Kalousek  told parliament.  To cut the deficit, the government plans to reduce spending
on public wages by 10 percent next year. The agenda has drawn
the ire of state employees, with as many as 30,000 policemen,
firemen and medical workers marching through Prague in protest
on Sept. 21. The Cabinet also wants to reduce investment by 5
percent and social spending will by more than 10 billion koruna.  The economy, where  exports  such as cars made by Skoda Auto
AS account for about 70 percent of GDP, will grow 1.6 percent
this year, after a 4.1 percent contraction in 2009, as western
European demand for its products recovers, the  Finance Ministry 
forecasts.  Except for the budget draft, the government bills needed to
cut the deficit may face a veto at the Senate after the
opposition Social Democrats won a majority in the upper house of
parliament in elections last week and threatened to block
legislation it considers “restrictive.”  ‘Legislative Emergency’  The ruling-coalition’s 118 lawmakers in the 200-seat lower
house of parliament, the biggest government majority since the
Czech Republic came into existence in 1993, gives Necas enough
votes to override Senate vetoes.  The Cabinet will use the “legislative emergency”
procedure to speed up approval of legislation needed to reduce
the deficit, including measures to cut tax breaks and subsidies
on some savings plans, Necas said yesterday.  The government’s plan to narrow the shortfall has helped
the koruna strengthen 4.1 percent against the euro since May 28-
29 general elections, making it the third-best performing
currency in the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Czech Republic’s A debt rating may be raised if the
government follows through on pledges to reduce spending,
including an overhaul of the pension system, Standard & Poor’s
said Aug. 10. S&P revised its outlook on the rating to
“positive” from “stable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  