-- Defiant Greeks Prepare to Keep Smoking as Ban Compounds Economy
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2010-10-27T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/defiant-greeks-prepare-to-keep-smoking-as-ban-compounds-decline-of-economy.html
Athens restaurant owner Petros
Migdos says it’s not just policies to tackle the ailing Greek
economy that are hurting his business, it’s also one aimed at
improving the health of his countrymen.  Greece, home to Europe’s heaviest smokers, prohibited
puffing in public places such as bars and tavernas on Sept. 1.
This month, proprietors began returning ashtrays to indoor
tables in preparation to defy the law as winter approaches.  “I agree it’s a good thing to cut the cigarettes, but it
is not the time to impose these measures because of the economic
crisis,” Migdos, 50, said as he took a break to smoke.  Greece is the only European country to implement a tobacco
ban during the financial turmoil of the past two years.
Consumers and companies are enduring some of the continent’s
biggest tax increases and spending cuts as Prime Minister  George Papandreou  tries to rescue an economy that required a 110
billion-euro ($152 billion) international loan package.  The  Pan-Hellenic Federation of Restaurants and Related
Trades , representing 121,000 restaurants and bars, urged its
members to put ashtrays back on tables starting Oct. 18.  “It will take time for people to accept the smoking ban,”
George Lezos, 52, a civil servant, said as he sat outside a cafe
in the Athens neighborhood of Vyrona, dragging on one of the
roughly 20 cigarettes he smokes every day. “We Greeks tend to
resist laws telling us what to do.”  Rising Prices  Papandreou’s government has raised taxes on tobacco,
alcohol and fuel to help cut Europe’s second-biggest budget
deficit. It increased the price of 20 cigarettes three times, by
60 cents to 3.80 euros, starting in January. Greece’s economy is
set to contract 4 percent this year and 2.6 percent next year,
the government forecasts.  Polls indicate most Greeks will use their votes in Nov. 7
local elections to protest the measures. A GPO survey published
on Oct. 22 showed 67 percent of 5,000 voters had a negative
opinion of the government compared with 57 percent in August.  Greeks should be patient when it comes to adjusting to the
new smoking law, Deputy Health Minister Michalis Timosidis said
at a press conference in Athens on Oct. 26.  “We are talking about a law that changes the culture and
mindset of Greece,” he said. “We never hid the fact that there
would be difficulties. There are shops that are not complying,
but there is also a number that are.”  No Excuse  The economic situation in Greece should not be an excuse to
postpone the smoking measure, according to Constantine Vardavas,
a professor at the University of Crete and a collaborator with
the  Harvard School of Public Health  who helped the Greek
government craft its anti-smoking policy.  Greece has the highest rate of smoking among European Union
countries and about 20,000 people die from smoking-related
diseases every year, according to the  Ministry of Health .
Smoking-related health costs for the government, which has the
second-highest debt in the EU, total 2.1 billion euros.  “Resistance to the smoking ban was expected,” Vardavas
said after the press conference at  Greece’s Ministry of Health. 
“But what are we going to do? Stop public health in Greece for
the next decade because we’re in an economic crisis?”  European countrywide smoking bans in bars and restaurants
started in Ireland in 2004 and then in countries including
Norway, Italy and Scotland over the following two years and
places such as England and France later.  In Ireland and Scotland smokers brave the elements and
stand outside pubs with ashtrays on the wall.  King Otto  Greece’s law prohibits smoking in all enclosed public and
private workplaces. Casinos and night clubs over 300 square
meters (3,230 square feet) with live music will have eight
months to adjust to the new measures.  Fines for individual smokers start at 50 euros and rise to
500 euros for repeat offenders. Businesses face fines of as much
as 10,000 euros for non-compliance.  Greeks, who today celebrate a national holiday to mark when
they stood up to an Italian ultimatum during World War II, have
defied smoking bans since 1856, when King Otto and Queen Amalia
prohibited smoking inside state buildings. An attempt by the
previous government last year failed.  Papandreou should wait two years for the ban to take place
to give time for the economy to improve, Migdos said.  “Now when we have a wedding or baptism reservation,
instead of 100 people, only half come because of the smoking ban
and the ones that do come leave early,” he said.  Smaller Greek businesses face funding problems and reduced
revenue for the remainder of this year as the economic slump and
increased taxes hit consumer spending, according to a poll by
Athens-based Marc SA conducted July 15-28.  Of 960 businesses asked, 78 percent said revenue declined
in the first half of 2010 and 66 percent see a further drop in
the second half, the poll showed.  “The politicians don’t want to understand what we are
experiencing,” said Migdos. “They have to be stupid to want to
pass a measure like this in the middle of an economic crisis.
Even a young child could figure that out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Stoukas  in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  