-- Democrats Say Jon Stewart Rally Will Spur Enthusiasm to Vote
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2010-10-27T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/democrats-say-jon-stewart-rally-may-turn-on-voters-obama-fails-to-motivate.html
Democrats are looking to a pair of
comedians to do what President  Barack Obama , former President
 Bill Clinton  and dozens of other leaders haven’t done yet this
election season: Get party members excited about voting.  Comedy Central television hosts  Jon Stewart  and  Stephen Colbert  expect tens of thousands of fans to join them at the
 “Rally to Restore Sanity”  in Washington Oct. 30, three days
before congressional elections across the U.S. The president
will appear on “The Daily Show” tonight in his first visit to
Stewart’s program since he was elected.  “It will be a great chance to rally the base, especially
among young people,” said  Curtis Gans , director of the  Center
for the Study of the American Electorate  at American University
in Washington. “For Stewart, sanity is a code word for
Democratic.”  White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said yesterday Obama is
going on Stewart’s show because it “reaches an audience that
isn’t watching cable television every day, or the nightly
newscasts, but they’re probably going to participate in this
election.”  Stewart is promoting the rally as a “million moderate
march” to counter what he calls extreme rhetoric dominating
the national political discussion.  Glenn Beck Rally  The event mimics the “Restoring Honor” rally held Aug.
28 in Washington by  Glenn Beck , a Fox News commentator popular
with Tea Party and other conservative activists. Like Beck,
Stewart says his rally isn’t a political event. Rather, he
says, it’s an alternative format for the “fake news” humor he
and Colbert do on their television shows. “The Colbert
Report” follows “The Daily Show” each night from Monday
through Thursday.  “It is in fact not a political rally in any way, shape or
form,” Stewart said on CNN’s “ Larry King Live ” on Oct. 20.  The event’s organizers said in a permit application filed
with the National Park Service that they expect about 60,000 to
attend, said Comedy Central senior vice president  Steve Albani .
Guest stars for the event haven’t been announced.  According to a Facebook web page created for the rally,
more than 310,000 people have said they plan to be there, and
hundreds of satellite events are planned in sites as far away
as Tel Aviv and the Mt. Everest base camp.  Media experts say that just as fans rely on Stewart’s and
Colbert’s “fake news” shows for real information, they view
the rally as an actual political event.  ‘Alternative Form’  “It’s an alternative form of activism,” said  Danna
Young , an assistant professor of communication at the
University of Delaware. “The goal is to have a real rally for
moderates.”  When the  Pew Research Center  for the People and the Press
in Washington asked Americans to rank their favorite
journalists in March 2007, Stewart tied for fourth place with
anchormen  Brian Williams ,  Tom Brokaw ,  Dan Rather  and cable host
 Anderson Cooper .  Stewart’s show has become an important media stop for
presidential candidates. Former North Carolina Senator  John Edwards  announced his presidential campaign on the show. Obama
sat for an interview a few days before the 2008 election and
his Republican opponent, Arizona Senator  John McCain , has been
a frequent guest.  Obama said during a Sept. 29 appearance in Richmond,
Virginia, that he was “amused” by plans for the rally and
that most voters are looking for “common sense” and
“courtesy.”  Struggling to Motivate  Democrats have struggled to motivate the young voters who
helped the party win the White House in 2008. This year, 45
percent of voters under age 30 say they will definitely cast
ballots Nov. 2, compared with 76 percent of those 30 and older,
according to a  Pew study  conducted in September.  Voting rates for people under 30 were at least 20
percentage points lower than for older people in every midterm
congressional election since 1972 and six of 10 presidential
elections, according to a chart by  Circle , a youth-voting
research group at  Tufts University  in Medford, Massachusetts.  The only years in which the national under-30 voting rate
topped 50 percent were in 1972, the first time 18-to-20-year-
olds had the vote, in 1992 when Clinton was elected, and in
2008 when Obama won, according to the Circle chart.  Stewart is more popular among Democrats and independents
than Republicans, according to a Oct. 7-10 Bloomberg National
Poll. The survey by Des Moines, Iowa-based Selzer & Co. found
that 43 percent of Democrats and independents had a favorable
view of Stewart, compared with 20 percent of Republicans.  Younger Audience  His audience is also younger than for other cable
programs. Almost 8 in 10 viewers who say they regularly watch
“The Daily Show” and “The Colbert Report” are younger than
50, according to a March  report  by the Pew Research Center’s
Project for Excellence in Journalism. More than 60 percent who
regularly watch Fox News Channel shows hosted by  Bill O’Reilly 
or  Sean Hannity  are 50 or older, the report said.  On the same day as the rally, Democratic groups will be
focusing on traditional get-out-the-vote efforts.  The
Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee ’s website said it is
coordinating buses to take volunteers to Pennsylvania, West
Virginia and Kentucky.  “The vast majority of hard-core volunteers and hard-core
Democrats are not picking up and paying money to go to a rally
in D.C. the weekend before the election,” said Laurie
Moskowitz, founder of FieldWorks, a grassroots organizing firm.
“It’s a critical weekend.”  Rock the Vote , a nonpartisan group that seeks to involve
young people in civic life, plans to host events at satellite
rallies held across the U.S.  “It feels like the country’s largest public service
announcement just a few days prior to the midterm elections,”
said Heather Smith, president of Rock the Vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Lerer  in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  