-- Deutsche Boerse Third-Quarter Earnings Rise Amid Cost Cuts, One-Time Gain
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-10-27T19:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/deutsche-boerse-third-quarter-earnings-rise-amid-cost-cuts-one-time-gain.html
Deutsche Boerse AG  said third-
quarter profit rose 1.9 percent as Europe’s largest securities
exchange cut costs faster than previously forecast.  Net income for the three months ended Sept. 30 gained to
161.3 million euros ($222 million) from 158.3 million euros in
the third quarter of 2009, the exchange said in a statement
today. That exceeded the 151.2 million-euro  average estimate  of
nine analysts compiled by Bloomberg, and included a one-time
gain of 10.7 million euros from the sale of its 77 percent
interest in Avox Ltd.  “Focus remains on costs,”  Alexander Hendricks , an analyst
at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a Oct. 21 note to investors.
“While this is a potential catalyst for the shares, we prefer
to see underlying revenue growth going forward as validation for
the group’s investment strategy.” He has a “buy” rating on
the shares with a 72 euro price estimate.  Deutsche Boerse and rivals such as NYSE Euronext and  London
Stock Exchange Group Plc  saw trading slow last year following
the financial crisis, and responded by cutting costs to shore up
earnings. Competition in Europe has increased from multilateral
trading facilities such as Chi-X Europe Ltd. and Bats Europe
while Deutsche Boerse’s International Securities Exchange
Holdings Inc., a New York-based options market, has lost market
share in the U.S.  The Frankfurt-based company said costs for the year will be
1.150 billion euros, compared with a previous forecast of 1.210
billion euros. In the third quarter, costs fell to 287 million
euros from 301.5 million euros in the same period in 2009.  Deutsche Boerse owns the Frankfurt stock exchange;
Clearstream, Europe’s No. 2 securities-settlement company; Eurex
Clearing; and is part-owner of Eurex, the region’s largest
futures market. Eurex bought  International Securities Exchange 
in 2007.  The exchange may be forced to take a new charge on ISE,
Deutsche Boerse said today.  “Due to still pending regulatory approval for certain
functions and the subdued trend on the U.S. options market, the
probability that an impairment loss will be recognized on the
other intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition of
ISE has increased in the third quarter 2010,” the exchange
said. “In case the sustainable business prospects for ISE do
not improve, Deutsche Boerse expects to recognize an impairment
loss on the other intangible assets in the fourth quarter
2010.”  In the fourth quarter of 2009, the company recorded a
pretax charge of 415.6 million euros for ISE and after growth in
options trading slowed during the year. The writedown was offset
by a gain of 66.7 million euros from the cancellation of an
insurance policy.  Deutsche Boerse should discuss “the business strategy to
turn around ISE, the U.S. equity option platform,”  Elie Darwish , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, wrote in an Oct. 19
note to investors. ISE “has suffered from poor business
momentum and increased competition.”  Deutsche Boerse will hold a conference call for analysts
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  