-- Deutsche Bank Ordered to Pay $980,000 in Swap Suit
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-10-27T14:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/deutsche-bank-must-pay-980-000-damages-in-municipalities-swaps-judgment.html
Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest
lender, was ordered by an appeals court to pay 710,000 euros
($980,000) in damages over swaps it recommended to
municipalities.  The Stuttgart Higher Regional Court issued the ruling in a
suit brought by a sewer-system operator jointly owned by
southern German cities including Ravensburg and Weingarten. The
judges overturned a lower tribunal’s decision to reject the
claim the bank didn’t properly explain the risk of the swaps.  The “swaps constitute a form of gambling,” the court said
in an e-mailed  statement  today. “The bank must disclose that it
constructed the odds to the disadvantage of the customer, who
bears a higher likelihood of losing.”  Deutsche Bank has been involved in more than 20 lawsuits
filed by local governments, community-owned utilities and
companies that claim the lender sold swaps without adequately
disclosing their risks. Four other appeals courts had ruled in
favor of Deutsche Bank. Germany’s highest civil court will
eventually have to decide whether the bank failed to adequately
advise its customers in these cases.  Deutsche Bank, based in Frankfurt, will ask the top court
to overturn the ruling, its attorney  Christian Duve  said. The
Stuttgart court said the parties are allowed to appeal
today’s order because of the disparate case law on the issue.  “The ruling confirms our view that such highly complex
financial products require a high quality of advice from the
bank,” Peter Gundermann, the attorney for the plaintiff, said
in an e-mailed statement.  Speculative Products  Deutsche Bank presented itself as an expert in municipal
financing and should have known that state law prohibits cities
from investing in speculative products, the court said.  On the lender’s advice, the sewer-system operator bought an
interest rate swap running for five years. Deutsche Bank paid a
three percent interest rate on a fictitious amount of 5 million
euros and the sewer-system operator paid a rate calculated under
a complicated formula derived from two interbank rates,
according to the court.  “The bank exploited the customer’s ignorance about the
market value and was able to clandestinely help itself to his
assets,” the judges wrote.  The court rejected a part of the suit in which the cities
asked to make the bank disclose additional information on the
transaction.  In a similar case,  UniCredit SpA  was told to return 651,632
euros plus interest to the Italian city of Rimini after a court
ruled a swap contract between them was void.  The contract was ruled invalid because it wasn’t signed at
UniCredit’s offices, the city said Oct. 25. The municipality,
which had swaps on about 20 million euros of debt, couldn’t be
classified as a professional investor, a requirement for
agreeing to such transactions away from the lender’s premises,
according to the statement.  The German case is OLG Stuttgart, 9 U 148/08.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 