-- Deutsche Bank Beats Estimates on Investment Bank
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2010-10-27T11:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/deutsche-bank-posts-1-7-billion-third-quarter-loss-on-postbank-writedown.html
Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest
bank, reported third-quarter results that beat estimates after
the investment banking unit posted higher profit.  Deutsche Bank rose as much as 2.4 percent in Frankfurt
trading after earnings before tax at the corporate banking and
securities unit rose 12 percent to 1.1 billion euros ($1.5
billion), beating analysts’  estimates . The Frankfurt-based
company posted an overall loss for the quarter after writing
down its stake in Deutsche Postbank AG.  At the investment bank, run by  Anshu Jain , sales and
trading revenue slipped 4 percent, compared with the average 26
percent decline at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Citigroup Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp., UBS
AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Foreign exchange and a September rebound in client activity
underpinned the sales and trading performance, the bank said.  “Deutsche Bank’s investment bank fared relatively well
compared to competitors, which is leading to the positive
reaction from investors,” said  Thomas Koerfgen , who helps
oversee about $19 billion at SEB Asset Management in Frankfurt.
“The securities division as well as the stable businesses
helped absorb the Postbank writedown.”  Deutsche Bank  was  up 94 cents, or 2.3 percent, to 42.13
euros by 12:52 p.m. in Frankfurt. The shares have fallen 6.6
percent this year, compared with a 2.5 percent drop in
 Bloomberg’s European Banking Index .  Debt and Equity  The German company reported a net loss of 1.21 billion
euros in the quarter, less than the 1.52 billion-euro loss
predicted by analysts. The Frankfurt-based bank said on Sept. 21
it would book a 2.3 billion-euro charge related to Postbank.  Revenue from debt and other products at the investment bank
increased 5 percent to 2.24 billion euros. Equity trading
revenue slipped about 25 percent to 650 million euros, as client
activity “remained muted” and Deutsche Bank exited “dedicated
equity proprietary trading,” the bank said.  UBS , Switzerland’s biggest bank, reported a surprise third-
quarter loss at its investment bank yesterday on a slump in
trading.  Credit Suisse , the No. 2 Swiss bank, posted a 74
percent drop in profit as lower client activity curbed trading.  Deutsche Bank increased the amount it set aside to pay
corporate and investment banking employees in the first nine
months by 9 percent to 4.62 billion euros from a year earlier as
revenue at the unit rose. That’s enough to pay each of the
unit’s 16,194 employees 285,352 euros for the period.  ‘Positive’ Outlook  Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause , asked for an outlook
on the fourth quarter and trading conditions on an analyst call,
said the company is “very positive” after seeing how business
went since the end of September. Deutsche Bank aims to return to
a dividend payout ratio of 30 percent to 40 percent of profit as
quickly as possible, Krause also said.  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  completed a record
10.2 billion-euro share sale this month to buy the rest of Bonn-
based Postbank and meet stricter capital rules. Ackermann is
building up his consumer-banking and asset-management operations
to counterbalance the investment bank, where earnings are more
vulnerable to financial market swings.  Deutsche Bank offered 25 euros a share in cash last month
to Postbank’s outstanding shareholders. The purchase, which may
cost an estimated 6.4 billion euros if all shareholders accept
the offer, would more than double Deutsche Bank’s retail clients
to 24 million and add about 1,100 branches.  Deutsche Bank had to mark down its existing 30 percent
holding in Postbank before consolidating the company’s results
with its own after the takeover. Net income excluding the
Postbank charge amounted to 1.1 billion euros, the bank said.  Highest Since Lehman  The results “again prove the robustness of our
recalibrated business model despite the difficult ongoing macro-
economic and market conditions,” said Ackermann, 62, in a
statement.  Earnings at the retail-banking unit, run by  Rainer Neske ,
46, rose 64 percent to a better-than-estimated 245 million euros
in the third quarter, the highest result since the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  The asset and wealth management unit posted pretax profit
of 78 million euros, down from 134 million euros in the year-
earlier period. Profit from transaction banking increased 6
percent to 214 million euros.  Regulators from 27 nations last month more than doubled
capital requirements for banks to avert future financial crises.
Deutsche Bank expects to meet higher standards planned for 2019
as early as the beginning of 2013, Ackermann said today.  The bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, totaled 11.5 percent at the end of September, compared
with 11.3 percent at the end of the second quarter. The ratio
doesn’t include the share sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  