-- Deutsche Boerse May Report Lower Third-Quarter Earnings Amid Competition
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-10-27T05:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/deutsche-boerse-may-report-lower-third-quarter-earnings-amid-competition.html
Deutsche Boerse AG , Europe’s largest
securities exchange, may report lower third-quarter profit amid
subdued trading and increased competition from alternative
trading systems.  Net income for the three months ending Sept. 30 slipped 4.6
percent to 151 million euros ($209 million) from 158.3 million
euros in the third quarter of 2009, according to the  average
estimate  of nine analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Deutsche Boerse
reports earnings after European markets close today and will
hold a conference call for analysts tomorrow.  “As current trading activity fails to impress, focus
remains on costs,”  Alexander Hendricks , an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG, wrote in a note to investors. “We expect an update on
cost guidance for 2010 and directional guidance for 2011. While
this is a potential catalyst for the shares, we prefer to see
underlying revenue growth going forward as validation for the
group’s investment strategy.” He has a “buy” rating on the
shares with a 72 euro price estimate.  Deutsche Boerse and rivals such as NYSE Euronext and  London
Stock Exchange Group Plc  saw trading slow last year following
the financial crisis, and responded by cutting costs to shore up
earnings. In the second-quarter earnings statement, the exchange
said full-year expenses will be lower than its prior 1.2
billion-euro forecast.  Deutsche Boerse owns the Frankfurt stock exchange;
Clearstream, Europe’s No. 2 securities-settlement company; Eurex
Clearing; and is part-owner of Eurex, the region’s largest
futures market. Eurex bought New York-based options exchange
 International Securities Exchange Holdings Inc.  in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  