-- Distressed Assets Alluring for Shariah Funds in the Gulf: Islamic Finance
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2010-10-27T12:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/distressed-deals-lure-shariah-funds-managing-10-billion-islamic-finance.html
Islamic private equity funds in the
Persian Gulf plan to take advantage of lower asset prices after
the property market in Dubai tumbled as much as 50 percent from
its peak in 2008.  “We want to take advantage of massive dislocations that
have taken place in this market over the past three years,”
Yahya Jalil, director of private equity at Abu Dhabi-based
investment and advisory company  The National Investor , said in
an interview Oct. 18. “We have gotten over that hump in the
cycle when there were a lot of liquidity constraints.”  Middle East and North Africa investment groups have about
$10 billion available after raising a record $5.4 billion in
2008 that they haven’t been able to spend,  Gulf Venture Capital
Association  said in a July 20 statement. Mid-sized businesses in
the Gulf may need as much as $1 billion from investors, Jalil
said. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  of regional stocks has
declined 26 percent since the end of September 2008 after credit
markets collapsed.  The National  and  Kipco Asset Management Co.,  a Kuwaiti
investment bank, started a $200 million Shariah-compliant fund
this month, Jalil said in Abu Dhabi.  Bahrain’s Capital
Management House  plans to complete a transaction and buy stakes
in companies specializing in aviation and energy, Chairman
Khalid Al Bassam said in an Oct. 25 telephone interview.  ‘Coming Back’  Islamic funds received $8.9 billion of commitments from
investors from 2003 through July this year, of which about $4.5
billion has been invested,  Kuwait Finance House KSC , the
country’s biggest Islamic bank, said in an Oct. 8 report. About
$75 billion of deals have been completed since 2003, the bank
said.  “The private equity market is coming back,” said Al
Bassam, whose firm has stakes in energy, banking and real-estate
companies.  Shariah-compliant equity companies raised and completed
deals worth about $3 billion worldwide last year, mostly in the
Middle East and North Africa, Dubai-based  Yasaar Media , a media
and research company that specializes in Islamic finance, said
in an August 2009 report.  Sales of Islamic bonds from the Gulf are starting to pick
up after Dubai World, the state-owned holding company, reached
an agreement with 99 percent of its creditors in September to
restructure $24.9 billion of debt. Regional companies have sold
$1.25 billion of sukuk since the announcement, bringing this
year’s total to $3.7 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Standard Chartered Plc will advise on more than 10 bond
offerings including Islamic debt from borrowers in the Middle
East and North Africa, according to V. Shankar, chief executive
officer for Europe, the Middle East, Africa and the Americas.  Growing Economies  Sukuk returned 12.2 percent this year, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index . Bonds in developing
markets gained 16.2 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global
Diversified Index  shows. Islamic bonds in the Gulf returned 12.6
percent, the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index  shows.  The  difference  between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed 11
basis points this month to 362 on Oct. 26, according to the
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index.  The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due in
June 2015 has climbed 20 basis points to 2.67 percent this week,
prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc show. The extra
yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s government sukuk rather
than Malaysia’s has narrowed 12 basis points to 375 this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic growth in the Middle East and North Africa will
accelerate to 5 percent in 2011 from 3.8 percent this year and
1.1 percent in 2009, the International Monetary Fund said on
Oct. 24.  The National’s Islamic buyout fund will focus on companies
that are having difficulty raising financing, and is looking at
opportunities in the transportation, consumer and media sectors,
according to its  website .  Raising Funds  Arcapita Bank BSC, a Bahrain-based investment bank and
buyout firm, said Islamic takeovers will increase over the next
six months. The bank has raised $920 million from an initial
public offering of its real-estate assets.  “When valuations slumped, a lot of people who wanted to
sell pulled their deals and banks stopped lending,”  Mohammed Chowdhury , head of financial management at Arcapita, said in a
telephone interview yesterday from Manama. “What we see now is
asset prices bottoming out, and we see more deals in the future
as we reach the bottom.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  