-- Dollar Near Week High Versus Euro as Bets on Quantitative Easing Trimmed
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-10-27T23:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/dollar-near-week-high-versus-euro-as-bets-on-quantitative-easing-trimmed.html
The dollar was near its strongest in
a week against the euro on speculation a quantitative easing
plan by the Federal Reserve will be smaller than some traders
estimated amid signs the U.S.’s economic recovery is
stabilizing.  The yen was near a two-week low before Bank of Japan policy
makers update predictions for growth and inflation after
unexpectedly cutting interest rates on Oct. 5 and creating a 5
trillion-yen fund ($61 billion) to purchase assets. New
Zealand’s currency gained for the first time in three days after
its central bank said the official cash rate will probably need
to rise in the future.  “As we get closer to the Federal Open Market Committee
meeting there’s been a rethinking about the size of QE2,” said
Khoon Goh, head of market economics at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in
Wellington. “U.S. 10-year bonds are selling off and the dollar
is rallying as short positions get squared up.” A short
position is a bet that an asset will decline in value.  The dollar traded at $1.3793 per euro as of 8:36 a.m. in
Tokyo from $1.3769 in New York yesterday when it reached as high
as $1.3734, the most since Oct. 20. It traded at 81.64 yen from
81.75. The greenback touched 81.99 yen in New York, the
strongest level since Oct. 13, after falling on Oct. 25 to 80.41
yen, the lowest since April 1995.  The euro was little changed at 112.60 yen. New Zealand’s
dollar rose 0.4 percent to 74.82 U.S. cents.  The U.S. economy probably grew at a faster pace in the
third quarter, reflecting a pickup in consumer spending. Gross
domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual pace, up from a 1.7
percent rate in the previous three months, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists before
tomorrow’s Commerce Department report.  Dollar Index  Benchmark  10-year yields  in the U.S. reached 2.73 percent
yesterday, the highest level since Sept. 20, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Dollar Index  increased 0.6 percent to 78.149 yesterday
as investors pared bets on how much that Fed policy will debase
the currency. IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s gauge of the
greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trading partners
including the euro, yen and pound has climbed 2.6 percent since
reaching 76.144 on Oct. 15, the lowest level since Dec. 11.  The Fed is likely to announce a program of bond purchases
worth a few hundred billion dollars over several months, the
Wall Street Journal reported yesterday, without saying where it
obtained the information.  QE Size  Estimates for the ultimate size of the asset-purchase
program range from $1 trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
to $2 trillion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., with economists at
both firms agreeing the Fed will likely start by announcing $500
billion after its Nov. 2-3 meeting.  “We still believe that U.S. quantitative easing is bad
news for the U.S. dollar,” said John Kyriakopoulos, head of
currency strategy at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney.
“The ultimate size of purchases of U.S. Treasury securities
needed to push inflation higher and unemployment lower could
well end up closer to $1 trillion.”  Economists say the Bank of Japan may leave policy unchanged
today to gauge whether cutting  interest rates  to near zero and
pledging to buy financial assets will shield the economy from
the effect of the yen’s strength.  The government last week lowered its assessment of the
economy for the first time in 20 months. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  wants to submit his 5 trillion yen stimulus package to
parliament on Oct. 29.  Bollard Comments  New Zealand’s dollar gained against all 16 of its most-
traded counterparts after central bank Governor Alan Bollard
said interest rates were likely to rise in the future. The
benchmark rate is 3 percent in New Zealand, compared with as low
as zero in the U.S. and Japan, attracting investors to the South
Pacific nation’s higher-yielding assets.  Higher export prices and reconstruction efforts in
earthquake-hit Canterbury “seem to have offset the weak data
lately,” said Imre Speizer, a market strategist in Wellington,
at Westpac Banking Corp. “The Reserve Bank of New Zealand is
looking forward and thinking there’s no need to further lower
the path,” of monetary policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  