-- Dubai's Abraaj Capital May Announce Two Deals This Year, Abdel-Wadood Says
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-10-27T12:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/dubai-s-abraaj-capital-may-announce-two-deals-this-year-abdel-wadood-says.html
Abraaj Capital Ltd., a Dubai-based
private-equity firm that manages $6.6 billion, may make two
deals by the end of the year and as many as four in 2011,
Managing Director  Mustafa Ahmed Talaat Abdel-Wadood  said.  The first investment, which will be for more than $300
million, will be announced “shortly” and “has a regional
footprint with a strong U.A.E. base,” Abdel-Wadood said today
in an interview at the World Economic Forum in Marrakesh,
Morocco. Another will close before the end of the year, he said.  There are a couple of deals in Saudi Arabia that probably
won’t close this year and “quite a few” investments are in
advanced stages, he said.  Abraaj said in July it would spend about $700 million along
with partner investors on stakes in more than 100 small- and
medium-size businesses in the Middle East and North Africa in
the next four years. The money will come from its Riyada
Enterprise Development fund for small- and medium-size
companies.  The global economic crisis caused a slowdown in new
transactions, Abdel-Wadood said.  ‘Shaky’ Prospects  “In 2009, the deals that bubbled to the surface were not
the best deals,” he said. “The better companies, people were
still holding on to them tight” and “valuation expectations
were unrealistic. Although we believe in the long-term prospects
for this region, it will be a shaky couple of years and that has
to be priced in.”  Gulf Arab economies pump more than 20 percent of the
world’s crude oil and have been spending tens of billions of
dollars on infrastructure and industry to boost growth. The oil
exporting economies of the Middle East and North Africa will
expand by an average 4.2 percent this year and by 4.6 percent in
2011, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “Deal activity is coming back, it’s a fact,” Abdel-Wadood
said. “It is relatively subdued compared to other years but
that’s not a bad thing. You’re probably going to see better
quality deals and a lot more discipline.”  Abraaj has appointed Ayman Arekat to head up its office in
Saudi Arabia, Abdel-Wadood said.  Abraaj, one of the Middle East’s biggest private-equity
firms, has invested in 35 transactions across 11 countries since
being set up in 2002, according to its annual report. It owns
stakes in  Air Arabia PJSC , the Middle East’s oldest low-cost
carrier, and Turkish hospital company Acibadem Healthcare Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net 
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at   asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   Eevans3@bloomberg.net  