-- Ducasse’s Adour Rocks St. Regis With $600 Caviar: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/ducasse-s-adour-rocks-st-regis-with-600-caviar-140-steak-ryan-sutton.html
Nearly four years after the failure
of his Essex House restaurant, where a meal for two could easily
exceed $1,000, chef  Alain Ducasse  still knows (or cares) little
about New York dining habits.  What he does know a lot about is making great food.  Since the last  Lehman  days of mid-2008, Adour Alain Ducasse
at the  St. Regis Hotel  has defied New York’s haute-casual trend
with fancy French frivolity. The luxuriantly appointed space
once occupied by Lespinasse Adour can feel like any hotel
restaurant, anywhere in the world, especially when it’s empty,
which it sometimes is.  On other nights, Adour fills with diners who know that the
new resident chef, Didier Elena, cooks vegetables as well as
Blue Hill and cote de boeuf as expertly as Minetta Tavern.  In a clever rebuke to Americans who like plain-Jane steak
on a plate, Elena slices the 38 ounces of meat (charred and
rare) and douses it with a rich bordelaise. The result is a
clean, beefy flavor with none of the dry-aged mineral tang we
expect. Throw in truffled macaroni and cheese (dense and
toothsome), some hen of the woods mushrooms and mustard-spiked
marrow bones and I’m buying. It’s $140.  The Cost  Such prices won’t shock patrons of Ducasse’s spots in Las
Vegas, Paris and Monaco, where starters often exceed $50 and
mains rise above $100.  Nevertheless, Adour is one of the city’s more expensive a
la carte restaurants, with no first courses under $21 and no
entrees under $42. That’s less pricey than Daniel and Per Se,
but Adour was never quite as good as them. Elena is changing
that.  He fortifies the richness of a slice of oily white tuna
with bearnaise sauce, a decadent surf that’s been tricked out as
turf. He separates grapefruit segments into tiny pearls and uses
them to cut the sweetness of crab. He clarifies shrimp stock
into a cold consomme, spices it up with chili and pumps up the
high-tide taste with little knobs of sea urchin.  Need more uni? House-made fettucine soaks up the orange roe
in a foamy Mediterranean variation on spaghetti with clam sauce
-- the perfect midday snack (if only Adour did lunch).  Major Caviar  And contrary to the culinary zeitgeist, there are no food-
friendly cocktail lists, no small plates and no suggested
“middle courses,” unless one counts the caviar section of the
menu. It’s not the awful, sustainable American stuff; it’s the
excellent, endangered Caspian kind. Those eggs will set you back
$400-$600.  The menu’s mantra is “cuisine designed with wine in
mind,” as if other New York chefs pair their foie gras with
bathtub gin. Adour’s supposed raison d’etre is its wine
technology, which reaches its apex with an iPhone-like wine list
projected onto the bar top. The electronic sommelier is
brilliantly comprehensive so I’m distinctly confounded why the
geniuses behind it can’t put the expensive list on Adour’s
website. And while other restaurants waive corkage fees on
“bring your own wine nights,” Adour rents private wine vaults
for  $6,000 a year.   I’ll take a sublime $25 champagne cocktail instead. And
I’ll nurse it in case I have to wait an hour for my table again
(a medical emergency in the dining room -- fair enough). Adour
made up for the inconvenience with a free bottle of bubbly and
scallops with white truffles. The French apologize well.  Tasting Menus  The tasting menus are the most affordable choices, at $115
for seven courses or $85 for a vegetarian option. A simple
carpaccio of radish, apples, pears, mushrooms and zucchini
achieves greatness, maybe because of a chef’s love, though
probably because of the black truffle vinaigrette. I can think
of few better ways to spend $21 than a casserole of potatoes,
celery root and hearts of palm. It sits over an egg and
parmesan-spiked butternut squash marmalade. Amazing.  That’s dessert to me, but pastry chef Sandro Micheli’s
creations are reason enough to soldier on. A waiter pours hot
chocolate sauce over a chocolate disk, chocolate sorbet and
coffee granite. The sounds of spoons clanking against an empty
dish follow. Just leave the silly gold leaf behind. No, Adour
isn’t completely New York. And I bet Ducasse is fine with that.
Rating: ***  The Bloomberg Questions  Prices: At least $100 per person.  Sound Level: Moderate, around 70 or so decibels.  Date Place: Yes.  Inside tip: Don’t fill up on the great brioche or bacon-
bread rolls.  Special Feature: The $48 lamb loin is great, but the olive
oil roasted turnips that pop like caviar are even better.  Will I be back: For the tasting menus.  Adour Alain Ducasse is at 2 E. 55th St. Information: +1-
212-710-2277;  http://www.adour-stregis.com   
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Church on a weekday. 56 to 60: The vegetable aisle at
the Food Emporium. 61 to 65: Keyboards clacking at the office.
66 to 70: My alarm clock when it goes off inches from my ear. 71
to 75: Corner deli at lunchtime. 76 to 80: Back of a taxi with
advertisements at full volume. 81 to 85: Loud, crowded subway
with announcements.  ( Ryan Sutton  writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 