-- E.ON Will Book 2.6 Billion Euro Charge Related to French, Spanish Plants
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2010-10-27T10:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/e-on-posts-3-6-billion-in-impairment-charges-that-will-reduce-net-income.html
E.ON AG, the German utility that
 bought French, Spanish and Italian power plants  in 2008, said it
took a 2.6 billion-euro ($3.6 billion) charge to reflect lower
asset values as electricity demand trails expectations.  Writedowns led to an  impairment charge  of about 1.1 billion
euros to cover goodwill and 1.5 billion euros for other assets,
Dusseldorf-based E.ON said today in a statement. The charges are
effective Sept. 30, and Chief Executive Officer  Johannes Teyssen 
is set to comment on the company’s outlook and strategy in a
third-quarter earnings release on Nov. 10.  E.ON snapped up Endesa SA assets after failing to buy the
entire Spanish utility in a contest with Italy’s Enel SpA. While
Endesa was set to benefit from rising energy use, the recession
reduced electricity demand and prices in Spain averaged less in
2010 than in 2009 unlike those in Germany, a European benchmark.  “Those markets are a tough environment and expectations
for energy demand were a lot higher,” said  Michael Schaefer , an
analyst with Equinet AG in Frankfurt who recommends investors
 hold  E.ON stock. “It isn’t as if this kind of announcement hits
the market on completely the wrong foot.”  E.ON reversed earlier losses in Frankfurt trading and was
up 0.7 percent at 22.55 euros as of 12:41 p.m. local time,
valuing the  company  at about 45.1 billion euros.  “The development of electricity and commodity prices is in
some cases leading to significantly lower margins and capacity
utilization,” E.ON said, adding that the contributions to
earnings before interest and tax that it had expected from the
three markets “have deteriorated in the medium to long term.”  Reduced Investment Plans  E.ON completed a deal to buy 11.5 billion euros of power
plants and shareholdings in energy retailers in the three
countries in June 2008. Germany’s largest utility has since
reduced investment plans to reflect lower energy demand and has
sold assets to reduce debt amassed through acquisitions.  The charges will reduce the company’s  net income , E.ON
said. Mirko Kahre, a company spokesman, said the utility won’t
publish precise figures on the impact ahead of the Nov. 10
earnings and conference with investors. The charges are
effective Sept. 30, he added.  The charges could slash full-year net income by about 1.8
billion euros, according to Schaefer, the Equinet analyst.  E.ON’s adjusted Ebit and adjusted net income, which the
utility uses to calculate its dividend, won’t be affected,
according to the statement. The charges aren’t cash-effective,
the company said.  Ebit Climbs 9.6%  Separately, E.ON said nine-month adjusted Ebit rose 9.6
percent to 8 billion euros from 7.3 billion euros in the same
period a year earlier.  The company confirmed its outlook for 2010 adjusted Ebit to
meet the 2009 level or rise by 3 percent as well as for adjusted
net income to be at the same level as last year.  “Today’s writedowns are a look in the rear-view mirror,”
UBS AG analysts  Patrick Hummel  and  Per Lekander  wrote in a note
to investors today. E.ON CEO Teyssen’s comments at the investor
day next month “should be key for the shares.”  Today’s announcement may be one more sign that E.ON has to
broaden the scope of its strategy beyond Europe, according to
Schaefer at Equinet.  “The question is whether Europe is still a growing market
for utilities,” the Frankfurt-based analyst said by phone.
“Carrying on as usual isn’t an option, just a new cost-cutting
program won’t satisfy investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Comfort  in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  