-- LeBron James & Co. Put Eskimos on Red Alert: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-10-27T04:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/lebron-james-co-put-eskimos-on-red-alert-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Former National Basketball
Association executive  Jon Spoelstra  released a belly laugh
when asked how he’d sell the Miami Heat, who are coached by
his son, Erik.  The elder Spoelstra, you see, developed innovative
ways to sell what were at the time some of the worst teams
in sports: the New Jersey Nets and Portland Trail Blazers.
By contrast the Heat -- with a core of  Dwyane Wade ,  LeBron James  and  Chris Bosh  -- are being heralded as one of the
best teams in history. Miami lost its ballyhooed opener
last night, though, falling 88-80 to the Celtics in Boston.  “Oh, my,” the father said when told how some NBA
teams are bolstering the bottom line by affixing the Heat
to ancillary products.  It’s the latest installment of franchises taking
advantage of fans and their unwavering commitment. Maybe
addiction is a better word. Sports fans keep coming back,
paying more, tolerating more, no matter how poorly they’re
treated by teams that offer lip service to value and
catering to the customer.  As if being a fan of the New York Knicks hasn’t been
hard enough in recent years. Madison Square Garden might be
the mecca of basketball, but the product has been mired in
mediocrity, to put it kindly.  Square Deal?  You’d think that  Cablevision Systems Corp ., which spun
off its Madison Square Garden unit this year, would reward
its fans with some of the friendliest ticket policies in
sports. You’d be wrong. Fans hoping to see the Heat at MSG
not only have to buy a multigame package to see the Knicks,
but a multigame plan for the National Hockey League’s
Rangers, too.  “I don’t like to hold the fans hostage,” said Jon
Spoelstra, author of “ Ice to the Eskimos ,” the first of
three sports marketing books that he’s written. “That’s
more like what an airline does. Is anybody a fan of the
airlines?”  The better question is: Do teams even care anymore?  The Oklahoma City Thunder, who play in an arena that
was paid for and upgraded by taxpayers, are demanding that
fans who want to see the Heat also buy tickets for the
club’s minor-league affiliate.  And then there’s the Sacramento Kings, whose owners,
the Maloof family, will tell anyone within earshot of their
commitment to customer satisfaction. If you want to see the
Heat play the Kings, then you’d better be prepared to pay
for the rebuilding Washington Wizards, too.  Turning Up the Heat  Erik Spoelstra  prior to last night’s game leaned
against a wall opposite the visiting team’s locker room and
laughed when told how other clubs were trying to capitalize
on Heat hype.  “I’m not surprised they’re trying to monetize it,”
he said.  No one should be surprised.  Charles Barkley , a member of the basketball Hall of
Fame, over lunch the other day said the coming year is a
big one for sports and sports fans. The NBA and National
Football League are lamenting their labor contracts,
setting the stage for contentious negotiations that might
result in lockouts and, in a worst-case scenario, canceled
games.  “We’re at a tipping point,” said Barkley, who cannot
fathom how rich owners or players being paid millions can
expect fans to tolerate their bickering over money. Not in
this economy.  Speaking of which, Spoelstra, the father, says some of
the best sports marketing ideas were born during difficult
economic times.  “You have to think differently,” he said.  Package Deal  With the Nets during the early 1990s, for instance,
Spoelstra was the first executive to promote the other
teams. He created a five-game package, offering the Knicks
twice,  Larry Bird ’s Celtics twice and the “Showtime”
Lakers. Anything to get people in the building.  The  Nets  sold 25,000 packages, and more than 6,000 of
those fans bought more tickets. That’s how you develop and
nurture a fan base of fathers and sons that become lifelong
fans. Like Greg Herenda, the basketball coach at Division
II UMass Lowell who attended last night’s game with his 8-
year-old son, Trey, a rabid  Ray Allen  supporter.  “It’s sad,” he said of how fans are treated. That
appraisal, mind you, was offered before he surrendered
$28.75 for three hot dogs, a bottle of water for himself
and a diet soda for the kid.  Spoelstra, the coach, said his team would get better,
noting that the assimilation of stars is a process. “No
reason to panic right now,” he said.  James apologized to those who believed the Heat would
go 82-0. “Just not happening,” he said.  Anything that diminishes the mythic stature of the
Heat is detrimental to marketing executives who just might
find out how difficult it is selling ice to the Eskimos.  Turns out Boston was the perfect place for Miami’s
debut. Just about everyone wore green, the universal color
of big-time sports.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to
send a letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  