-- Edenred May Raise Payout in Two Years on Voucher Sales Growth
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-10-27T05:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/edenred-may-raise-payout-in-two-years-on-voucher-sales-growth.html
Edenred SA , the voucher company
that’s planning to pay as much as 50 percent of earnings in
dividends, said it may increase the payout in two years as
demand grows for meal and childcare tickets.  “First phase could be 40 percent to 50 percent,” Chief
Executive Officer  Jacques Stern  said in an interview in Milan.
“Then an increase on that is not unlikely given the reality of
our business and our capability to generate cash.” Other
companies in the industry are paying about 30 percent of
earnings in dividends, he said.  Edenred, the biggest seller of service vouchers, owns the
Ticket Restaurant brand and competes with companies including
 Sodexo SA’s  Motivation Solutions business.  A higher dividend may come after a “phase of gaining
credibility,” if Edenred delivers on its plan to increase the
number of vouchers it sells, the CEO said. The company, based
near Paris, is targeting annual growth of as much as 14 percent
in vouchers issued.  “You have companies in the  peer group  sitting on a pile
of cash, which will not be our case,” Stern said. Edenred has a
“very straightforward strategy in what we want to achieve in
terms of organic growth.”  Edenred started trading in Paris in July, after Accor SA
shareholders approved its split from Europe’s largest hotelier.
Edenred has 33 million users and last year issued 12.4 billion
euros in tickets, about half in emerging markets.  Acquisitions  Edenred  shares  have advanced about 15 percent since it
started trading as a single entity.  Sodexo  has advanced almost 4
percent in the same period.  Ticket Restaurant  meal vouchers were introduced in France
in 1962 and in Brazil, Italy, Belgium, Germany and Spain
beginning in the 1970s. Brazil is Edenred’s largest market,
followed by Italy.  Edenred may make “bolt-on” acquisitions in countries
where it already operates to boost its market share, Stern said.  “If there’s a good opportunity at a reasonable price, we
could buy a small competitor,” the executive said. Funding an
acquisition won’t be a problem because Edenred is “a huge cash
flow producer.”  The company this month forecast that full-year earnings
before interest and taxes will rise to 310 million euros to 330
million euros, raising the lower end of the range from 300
million euros. Third-quarter sales climbed to 207 million euros
from 190 million euros in the year-earlier period as the number
of tickets issued increased by 14 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  