-- EDF to Buy Constellation Nuclear Venture Stake for $249 Million
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2010-10-27T20:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/edf-agrees-to-pay-249-million-to-constellation-for-nuclear-venture-stake.html
Electricite de France SA , seeking to
avoid a $2 billion obligation, agreed to buy the half of a
nuclear venture it doesn’t own from partner Constellation Energy
Group Inc. for $249 million in cash and stock.  Constellation , based in Baltimore, will get $140 million in
cash and 3.5 million of its own shares in exchange for its stake
in UniStar Nuclear Energy, the owner of sites for at least four
new reactors at existing plants, the companies said today in a
statement. Constellation will forgo its right under a previous
contract to sell $2 billion of plants to  EDF .  EDF, Europe’s largest power producer, already owns half of
UniStar and offered to buy the remaining half on Oct. 13 for
“fair market value” if Constellation agreed not to exercise
the option to sell 12 of its non-nuclear plants to EDF.
 Constellation  had said it was considering exercising the so-
called put, created in 2008 when the companies were fighting off
a bid by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc ., citing
government delays in loan guarantees.  “The threat of the put option has been removed,”  Martin Young , a London-based analyst for Nomura International Plc, said
in a note to investors today. “EDF will need a new partner. New
nuclear in the U.S. is not attractive at this juncture.”  Under U.S. law, Paris-based EDF will need a U.S. partner as
a foreign company can’t “own, control or dominate” the holder
of a nuclear power plant license. The company is in the process
of building a new reactor at Flamanville in Normandy for an
estimated 5 billion euros ($6.4 billion) and pursuing plans to
construct four new reactors in the U.K.  Shares Rise  EDF  rose  24 cents to 32.595 euros at 5:35 p.m. local time
in Paris. Constellation declined 8 cents to $31.13 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The two companies created the UniStar Nuclear Energy
venture in 2007 to build as many as four French-designed nuclear
reactors in New York and at the Calvert Cliffs site in Maryland.
At the time, EDF’s former CEO,  Pierre Gadonneix , was seeking to
develop and operate 10 reactors around the world by 2020.  Henri Proglio , EDF’s chief executive officer who took over last year,
has been scaling back his predecessor’s international expansion
plans to cut  debt .  Constellation and EDF will remain partners in a group of
operating reactors that include the Calvert Cliffs plant in
Maryland and the Nine Mile Point and R.E. Ginna nuclear stations
in New York. The companies also agreed to modify a power sale
agreement from those plants. Terms weren’t disclosed.  Lazard Ltd. advised EDF. Morgan Stanley and Rothschild
advised Constellation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Kari Lundgren  in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeran Wittenstein at 
 jwittenstei1@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 