-- Legg Mason's Net Income Rises 64% as Market Rally Lifts Assets
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2010-10-27T21:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/legg-mason-posts-higher-profit-on-performance-fees-as-withdrawals-continue.html
Legg Mason Inc. ’s fiscal second-
quarter earnings rose 64 percent on an increase in fee revenue
even as clients withdrew money for the 12th straight quarter.  Net income in the three months ended Sept. 30 climbed to
$75.3 million, or 50 cents a share, from $45.8 million, or 30
cents, a year earlier, the Baltimore-based company said today.
Revenue rose 2.3 percent to $674.8 million.  Clients pulled $12.7 billion from fixed-income, equity and
money-market funds, extending a streak of withdrawals that began
in late 2007 as the performance of the firm’s stock and bond
funds faltered. Withdrawals have abated from a peak of $77
billion in the final quarter of 2008 as returns have rebounded.
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Fetting  is buying back shares and
cutting costs to boost shareholder returns.  “They did well from an operating standpoint,”  Michael Kim , an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New York,
said in an interview. “The flows were a bit disappointing, and
it looks like some outflows will persist for a few more
quarters.”  Legg Mason fell 52 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $30.58 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have advanced 1.4 percent this year, while the Standard & Poor’s
asset manager and custody bank index is little changed.  The increase in revenue was helped by a 2.9 percent gain in
fees for managing funds and a doubling of fees earned for
beating return benchmarks. Earnings included a U.K. tax benefit,
which increased profit by $8.9 million, or 6 cents a share.  Assets Decline  Excluding certain one-time items, analysts had expected
earnings of 39 cents a share, according to the average of  17
estimates  in a Bloomberg survey.  Assets at Legg Mason were $673.5 billion in the three
months ended Sept. 30, down 4.2 percent from a year earlier.
Legg Mason’s bond funds accounted for about 55 percent of the
firm’s assets under management. Equity funds made up about 25
percent, and money funds represented the rest.  Investors pulled $8 billion from Legg Mason’s bond funds
during the quarter, $4.4 billion from stock funds and $300
million from money funds. Market appreciation added $40.8
billion to assets.  Western Unit  The withdrawals from Legg Mason’s Western Asset Management
unit were mainly from one global sovereign strategy and one
assignment that the firm worked on as a sub-adviser, Fetting
said today in a conference call with investors. Investors put
money into bond mutual funds, which earn higher fees than
institutional accounts, he said.  “The story of Western’s progress is not measured by flows
alone,” Fetting said.  One the stock-fund side, the investors pulled money from
the ClearBridge Advisors unit and Legg Mason Capital Management,
the unit run by fund manager  Bill Miller , according to Fetting.
The firm’s Royce & Associates, which specializes in small-
company stocks, had withdrawals in the quarter after drawing
money earlier in the year, as some investors removed money from
small-cap equities.  Board members at Legg Mason include activist investor
 Nelson Peltz  and  Scott Nuttall  from private-equity firm
Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Co. Legg Mason on May 10 said that
reducing 350 jobs and moving certain technology functions to its
investment affiliates will help save $130 million to $150
million by the end of fiscal 2012. The firm said the measures
will add 6 percent to 8 percent to its operating margin.  Legg Mason increased its quarterly dividend to 6 cents a
share from 4 cents. Legg Mason had cut its dividend last year
from 24 cents as it dealt with losses.  Bill Miller  Miller  is the stock-fund manager best known for guiding his
 Legg Mason Capital Management Value Trust  to better returns than
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index for 15 straight years, a record
that ended in 2006. Miller’s fund, which fell 55 percent in
2008, rose 41 percent last year. It has advanced 2.9 percent
this year, compared with the 8 percent gain in the S&P 500
Index. Miller’s Opportunity Trust fund has advanced 10 percent
this year, beating 75 percent of rival funds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Western Asset Core Bond Portfolio run by Legg Mason’s bond
unit has advanced 13 percent this year, beating 95 percent of
peers, according to Bloomberg data. The fund had declined 12
percent in 2008.  Cash invested in structured investment vehicles contributed
to a streak of five quarterly losses at Legg Mason that ended in
March 2009, after the firm eliminated the mortgage-linked debt
from its money-market funds. Peltz last year raised his stake to
become the largest shareholder in the company. He was named a
director a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 