-- Heineken Revenue Misses Estimates, Hurt by European Austerity
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-10-27T09:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/heineken-third-quarter-sales-miss-estimates-hurt-by-european-austerity.html
Heineken NV , the world’s third-
largest brewer, reported sales that missed analysts’ estimates
as consumers bought less beer in developed markets because of
austerity measures and weak consumer confidence.  Revenue fell 2.1 percent excluding acquisitions in the
third quarter, compared with the median estimate of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News for a 0.4 percent drop.  Heineken  fell  as much as 4.6 percent in Amsterdam trading,
the steepest drop in more than a year. The brewer gets more than
50 percent of  revenue  from western Europe, where group beer
volume fell 3.9 percent excluding acquisitions because of
“unfavorable weather conditions and low consumer confidence”
as governments across the region cut public spending.  “Heineken remains the most exposed brewer to western
Europe,”  Simon Hales , an analyst at Evolution Securities in
London, wrote in a research report. He has a “neutral”
 recommendation  on the Dutch brewer’s shares.  Heineken was down 1.67 euros, or 4.4 percent, to 36.35
euros as of 11:14 a.m. in Amsterdam trading.  Third-quarter profit growth, excluding one-time items and
acquisitions, was “slightly above 10 percent,” Heineken said
today. Profitability was driven “by a strong performance in
Africa and Asia and ongoing cost savings,” it said. The brewer
reiterated its forecast for growth in profit on the same basis
“at least in low double-digits” for the year.  Russian Decline  Total revenue in the quarter rose 13 percent to 4.6 billion
euros, missing the 4.8 billion-euro  average estimate  of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net profit was 520 million
euros, the company said, without giving a comparable figure.  So-called consolidated beer volume fell 2.2 percent
excluding acquisitions, the company said.  The volume of beer sold in central and eastern Europe slid
4.8 percent, with Russia declining “significantly, albeit at a
slower rate than in the first half.” SABMiller Plc, the world’s
second-largest brewer by volume, reported last week that sales
in the country returned to growth in its fiscal second quarter.  Group beer volume in Heineken’s Africa and Middle East unit
jumped 12 percent, led by Nigeria, and rose 3 percent in Asia.
Volume growth in Latin America, the Caribbean and Canada
“largely compensated” for weakness in the U.S., Heineken said.  Heineken bought Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB’s beer unit
in April to boost sales in emerging markets. The company said
unfavorable weather conditions affected beer sales in Mexico.  “Bulls hoping for good news on the Femsa business in
Mexico will be disappointed,” Evolution’s Hales said.  Price Rises  Heineken will aim to increase prices in 2011, Chief
Financial Officer  Rene Hooft Graafland  said today in a webcast.
“The scope and opportunities for that will differ, obviously,
from country to country,” he said. The brewer will raise prices
in Nigeria toward the end of this year, he said.  The cost of raw materials and packaging is likely to show a
“modest increase” next year, Hooft Graafland said. “It won’t
be a decline like we saw this year. It’ll be an increase in raw
and pack, but not at the levels we saw in 2007 and 2008.”  When asked if increases in expenses would cause gross
margins to contract in 2011, Hooft Graafland said “that depends
what we can achieve with the pricing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 