-- Telekomunikacja Posts Loss After Defeat in Lawsuit
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-10-27T07:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/telekomunikacja-has-above-forecast-loss-after-defeat-in-phone-line-lawsuit.html
Telekomunikacja Polska SA , Poland’s
largest phone company, reported a third-quarter net loss after
losing a court ruling, missing analysts’ estimates.  The loss  of 720 million zloty ($253 million) compares with
net income of 327 million zloty a year earlier, the Warsaw-based
unit of France Telecom SA said in a regulatory statement today.
The average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast a loss of 296.6 million zloty.  “The write-offs were higher than expected, so we may see
some profit-taking today,” Leszek Iwaszko, an analyst at KBC
Securities NV, told Bloomberg News by phone today. “What’s
positive is that the company maintains its dividend policy and
its cash flow generation is strong,” he added.  On Sept. 3, the company known as TPSA, said it lost a legal
case against DPTG I/S of Denmark, a subsidiary of GN Store Nord
A/S, and would set aside additional funds to account for the
payment, which exceeds earlier provisions by about 467 million
zloty. The company said today it increased provisions by 1.06
billion zloty. DPTG was awarded 2.9 billion kroner ($537
million) by the court.  Telekomunikacja’s sales fell 3.9 percent to 3.9 billion
zloty in the quarter, while analysts had predicted 3.93 billion
zloty. The pace of the revenue decline slowed from 4.7 percent
in the second quarter as mobile segment sales rose 1.7 percent
to 1.94 billion zloty.  The operator of the Orange brand in Poland forecasts the
decline in revenue will “slightly” slow in the fourth quarter
from third and the second-half decrease in sales will be below 4
percent, Chief Executive Officer Maciej Witucki said on a
conference call from Warsaw today.  “Excluding the provisions, the results are in line with
expectations and it’s difficult to find something particularly
inspiring there,” Iwaszko said.  The company, which reported a nine-month loss of 111
million zloty today, will post profit for the full year, Witucki
said today.  Telekomunikacja plans to keep  dividends  payments at last
year’s level in its three-year strategy. It generated 2.04
billion zloty of  net free cash flow  in the first nine months of
the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  