-- Telenor Third-Quarter Profit Falls 15% as Spending Rises on India Division
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-10-27T11:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/telenor-s-profit-slides-as-it-extends-buildup-in-india-misses-estimates.html
Telenor ASA , the Nordic region’s
largest phone company, reported a 51 percent drop in third-
quarter profit as spending rose on new operations in India. The
company raised its full-year earnings forecast.  Net income dropped to 1.7 billion kroner ($288 million)
from 3.49 billion kroner a year earlier, Fornebu, Norway-based
Telenor said today in a  statement . Sales rose 5.8 percent to
24.1 billion kroner, driven by 13 percent growth in established
Asian units. Analysts had  predicted  profit of 1.76 billion
kroner on sales of 24.2 billion kroner.  The company’s Indian division, called Uninor, opened in
December, aiming to leverage expertise acquired in Pakistan and
Bangladesh. Uninor added 4 million subscriptions in the quarter
for a total of 7.9 million prepaid cards in operation after
revamping its sales strategy, the company said. The division
posted a 1.3 billion-kroner operating loss, while  Telenor ’s
other four Asian divisions increased profitability.  “All market positions were maintained or improved” in
Asia, Chief Executive Officer  Jon Fredrik Baksaas  said in the
statement. “Going forward, we will continue our efforts to
increase revenues and improve business processes in India.”  Earnings Outlook  Full-year sales excluding acquisitions will rise 5 percent,
Telenor said. The outlook is at the upper end of a previous
 forecast  range 3 percent to 5 percent growth. Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization will amount to 30
percent to 31 percent of sales, an increase from an earlier
prediction of a 28 percent margin.  Ebitda excluding one-time gains or costs fell 3.7 percent
from a year earlier in the quarter to 7.9 billion kroner,
beating estimates. The Ebitda margin fell to 32.7 percent from
36 percent.  Business in Pakistan was hurt less than expected by
flooding in the country,  Telenor  said. Revenue rose 13 percent
while the operating loss narrowed.  Operating profit dropped 58 percent in Sweden and 22
percent in Denmark, hurt by lower interconnect revenue, and fell
16 percent in Norway because of a decline in fixed-line customer
numbers. Profit was also dragged down by greater competition in
the prepaid segment in Denmark.  Telenor  fell  as much as 1.7 percent to 92.6 kroner and was
down 1.1 percent as of 1:10 p.m. in Oslo trading. The stock has
gained 15 percent this year.  ‘Good Report’  “It’s a very good report with the possible exception of
Norway and Sweden, which are weak,” said  Ole Jorgen Rod , an
Oslo-based analyst at First Securities ASA. “It may be that the
market is emphasizing these more than the overall picture.”  Uninor will post a full-year Ebitda loss of 4.5 billion
kroner loss and capital spending will total 1.5 billion kroner
to 2 billion kroner, the Norwegian company said. Long-term
targets remained unchanged, Chief Financial Officer  Richard Olav Aa  said on a conference call.  Swedish competitor TeliaSonera AB also raised full-year
forecasts on Oct. 25, citing smartphone sales growth in the
Nordic region and rebounding economies in Central Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  