-- Emaar Third-Quarter Net Falls to $167 Million, Missing Analysts' Estimates
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-10-27T14:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/emaar-third-quarter-net-falls-to-167-million-missing-analysts-estimates.html
Emaar Properties PJSC , the builder
of the world’s tallest tower in Dubai, reported a 7 percent drop
in third-quarter profit, missing analysts’ estimates, on higher
costs and writedowns.  Net income  fell to 612 million dirhams ($167 million) from
665 million dirhams a year earlier, Emaar said in a statement
today. The median estimate of four analysts was for a profit of
 662 million dirhams , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emaar is focusing on recurring income such as shopping-mall
leases and hotel revenue rather than new projects after Dubai
property values fell by half since 2008 and transactions dried
up. The company handed over 45 percent of the apartments in the
200-story  Burj Khalifa  by the end of the third quarter,
according to the statement.  “Our strategic developments in shopping malls and
hospitality are now yielding strong recurring revenues, which
highlights our commitment to investing in the long term by
adding value to our stakeholders,” Chairman  Mohamed Alabbar 
said in the statement. “The challenges of the global financial
slowdown are behind us and we are entering a new phase of
growth.”  While sales increased 43 percent from a year earlier to
2.78 billion dirhams, operating costs more than doubled to 1.75
billion dirhams. The company also reported a writedown of 75
million dirhams related to assets in associated companies.  Emaar in September raised $500 million from the sale of a
five-year  convertible note  to help repay short-term debt. About
90 percent of Emaar’s revenue is generated in Dubai, the second-
largest sheikhdom in the United Arab Emirates.  ‘Better Shape’  “Despite some minor corporate distractions, we think the
company is in a better financial position than it was six months
ago,” Nomura analyst  Chet Riley  said in a note to investors. He
has a “buy” rating on Emaar shares.  The “distractions” include the Emaar MGF Land Ltd. unit
in India and a 48 percent stake in Amlak Finance PJSC, the
U.A.E.’s second-biggest mortgage lender, Riley said. The Indian
division is unlikely to complete a planned initial public
offering this year and a writedown related to the Amlak stake is
“only a matter of time,” he said.  The results were released after the close of trading in
Dubai.  Emaar’s shares  have fallen 2.1 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of 23 billion dirhams.  About 21 percent of the Burj Khalifa apartments were
delivered in the period, short of Nomura’s estimate of 30
percent. Deliveries were in line with the prediction of Shuaa
Capital PSC, according to Senior Vice President  Roy Cherry .  India  Emaar MGF reduced the size of a proposed initial public
offering to 16 billion rupees ($356 million) from an earlier
target of 38.5 billion rupees, two people with direct knowledge
of the matter said on Sept. 30.  Emaar said yesterday it will take any action necessary to
protect the interests of the Indian unit following media reports
saying the Indian government will impose fines for delays in
delivering the Commonwealth Games Village in New Delhi. The
developer made no reference to Emaar MGF in today’s statement.  “Landmark” projects will be completed in the coming
months in India, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Egypt, the company
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 