-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fall Most in Week on Fed Purchase Plan Speculation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-27T07:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/emerging-market-stocks-fall-most-in-week-on-fed-purchase-plan-speculation.html
Developing-nation stocks slid,
sending the MSCI Emerging Markets Index to the biggest decline
in a week, on speculation a possible Federal Reserve asset-
purchase program will fail to meet investor expectations.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  dropped 1.1 percent to
1,104.13 at 3:11 p.m. in Shanghai, heading for the biggest
decline since Oct. 19. The Fed may announce a program of U.S.
Treasury purchases worth a few hundred billion dollars at its
Nov. 2-3 meeting, the Wall Street Journal reported today. The
ultimate size of the asset-purchase program range could reach $2
trillion, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates.  The reported number is at the “low end of expectations and
hence some funds are looking to lock in some of the recent
gains,” said  Andrew Sullivan , a sales trader at OSK Asia
Securities in Hong Kong. “It really shows how edgy the market
is.”  The MSCI gauge has climbed 12 percent this year, compared
with the 4.4 percent gain by MSCI’s developed markets measure,
as investors sought growth in emerging economies amid near-zero
U.S. borrowing costs.  India’s  Sensitive Index  slid 0.4 percent. South Korea’s
 Kospi Index  fell 0.5 percent. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index 
dropped 1.5 percent, led by raw material producers as a
strengthening dollar curbed investor demand for commodities.  PetroChina Co. , China’s largest oil producer, declined 4
percent, the biggest drag on the MSCI China Index, which fell
the most since June 29.  Oil declined as much as 0.6 percent and traded at $82.13 a
barrel as a strengthening dollar curbed investor demand for
commodities.  BYD Co. , the Chinese carmaker backed by  Warren Buffett ,
tumbled 8.6 percent in Hong Kong, the biggest decline in the
MSCI gauge, after JPMorgan Chase & Co. reduced its stock rating
to “underweight” following a 99 percent plunge in BYD’s third-
quarter profit.  Tech Mahindra Ltd. , an Indian computer software maker,
dropped for the first time in five days in Mumbai after second-
quarter profit fell more than analysts’ estimates.  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai.  Editors:  Linus Chua , Allen 
Wan  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  