-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fall Most in Week on Fed Purchase Plan Speculation
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-10-27T12:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/emerging-market-stocks-fall-most-since-august-on-fed-purchase-plan-concern.html
Developing-nation stocks slid,
sending the MSCI Emerging Markets Index to the biggest decline
in more than a week, on speculation a possible Federal Reserve
asset-purchase program will fail to meet investor expectations.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  dropped 1.2 percent to
1,103.23 at 1:20 p.m. in London, heading for the biggest decline
since Oct. 19. The  Shanghai Composite stock index  fell 1.5
percent, the most in six weeks. India’s Sensitive Index lost 1.1
percent. The Korean won and the South African rand weakened
against the dollar.  The Fed may announce a program of U.S. Treasury purchases
worth a few hundred billion dollars over the next several months
at its Nov. 2-3 meeting, the Wall Street Journal reported today.
The ultimate size of the asset-purchase program range may reach
$2 trillion, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimates.  The number reported in the Wall Street Journal is at the
“low end of expectations and hence some funds are looking to
lock in some of the recent gains,” said  Andrew Sullivan , a
sales trader at OSK Asia Securities in Hong Kong. “It really
shows how edgy the market is.”  The Korean won lost 1 percent, the most in a week, to
1,128.24 per dollar after Bank of Korea Governor  Kim Choong Soo 
said measures to limit capital inflows could be “useful.” The
South African rand depreciated to 7.0084 per dollar on
speculation Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  will announce
measures to weaken the currency at a mid-term budget speech
beginning at 2 p.m. in Cape Town.  The ruble slipped 0.9 percent as oil and other commodities
weakened.  Oil, Gold Slip  Oil lost as much as 1.2 percent. Gold slipped 0.5 percent
and copper slumped 2.1 percent.  PetroChina Co. , China’s largest oil producer, declined 4.3
percent in Hong Kong, the second-biggest drag on the MSCI China
Index, which fell 2.2 percent, the most since June 29.  Akbank TAS , part-owned by Citigroup Inc., retreated 2.1
percent in Istanbul, where stocks decreased for a third day from
the record high reached on Oct. 22.  The  difference  between the return investors demand from
emerging-market bonds and from U.S. Treasuries narrowed five
basis points to 2.4 percentage points, according to the JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai. Editors:  John Kohut , Alex Nicholson.   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  