-- Lenihan Says Ireland Needs `Very Significant' Budget Reductions in 2011
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-10-27T15:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/lenihan-says-ireland-needs-very-significant-budget-reductions-in-2011.html
Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
said the government needs to make a “very significant” effort
to cut the 2011 budget deficit to restore investor confidence.  “The interest demanded on Irish debt has risen and is set
to remain high unless further decisive and credible action is
taken soon,” Lenihan told the parliament in Dublin today. “ We
will not fool the markets for an instant if we seek to defer any
longer what evidently needs to be done now.”  Lenihan yesterday unveiled 15 billion euros ($21 billion)
of austerity measures over four years to cut the country’s
deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2014 from
around 32 percent of GDP this year. The program comes after
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings cut their rating on Ireland
and the premium on Irish debt over Germany’s rose to a record.  The government canceled its remaining debt auctions for
this year after the yield on 10-year Irish bonds rose to a
record 454 basis points above benchmark German bunds. The  yield
premium  on Ireland’s 10-year debt was at 409 basis points today,
up from 393 basis points yesterday.  Fitch on Oct. 6 lowered Ireland’s credit grade to the
lowest of any of the major rating companies and said there’s a
risk of a further reduction. The move came a day after Moody’s
Investors Service said it may cut the country’s rating. S&P cut
its Irish rating Aug. 24.  Lenihan said Ireland’s economic slump had a “drastic”
impact on the state’s budget. Irish Prime Minister  Brian Cowen 
said in parliament today that the country “cannot afford to
increase borrowing further” or it would “run a very real risk
of not being able to borrow at all.”  “There needs to be an element of frontloading in the 2011
budget, given the scale of the adjustment,” Lenihan said. “In
order to underline the strength of our resolve, the budget 2011
will contain a very significant consolidation effort.”  Lenihan will announce details of the four-year budget plan
next month, when he will also unveil a “strategy for
underpinning and encouraging sustainable economic and employment
growth over the medium term,” he said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  