-- Merkel Says EU Treaty Changes Needed for `Lastingly Stable' Euro
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-10-27T12:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/merkel-says-eu-treaty-changes-needed-for-lastingly-stable-euro.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
that changes to the European Union’s guiding rules are necessary
to help ensure euro stability, picking a fight with fellow EU
leaders reluctant to rewrite the treaties.  Merkel, addressing lower-house lawmakers in Berlin ahead of
an EU summit in Brussels beginning tomorrow, said that Germany’s
goal is “that the euro is lastingly stable.” The debt crisis
that buffeted the euro region was “existential,” she said.  “We’ve got it under control, but that alone isn’t
enough,” Merkel said. “We have to get moving now, not when
Europe is up to its neck” in a future crisis.  An agreement forged with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
last week to deter EU nations from running excess budget
deficits will mean sanctions can be imposed more quickly than in
the past, she said. Treaty changes to avert future crises are
also necessary, though they won’t be easy to agree and “there
isn’t much time” to secure them, she said.  Merkel held to her position, formulated in May as she
granted aid to Greece, in the face of growing resistance to her
plans. The U.K. has said it opposes any attempt to transfer
powers to the EU to cap budget deficits, and Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs the group of euro-area
finance ministers, said Merkel won’t win the requisite support
for her proposal to withdraw voting rights should states violate
deficit rules, Die Welt newspaper reported today.  ‘Wrong Signals’  In her speech, Merkel said that she won’t accept a “simple
extension” of the EU’s 440 billion-euro ($608 billion) rescue
fund established in May -- located in Luxembourg and headed by a
German,  Klaus Regling  -- as a backstop in the event of a future
crisis. Extending the fund beyond its three-year remit would
send the “wrong signals to markets and member countries” that
taxpayers will bail out debt-laden governments, she said.  She defended her pre-summit accord with Sarkozy, saying
that German-French unity is necessary for any EU progress. The
EU needs Germany to be on board just as much as Germany needs
the EU, she said.  The debate over treaty overhaul risks detracting from the
need to “get the EU budget under control,” U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  told lawmakers in the House of Commons today.  “This is an argument that’s being put forward particularly
by the Germans, that there’s a new treaty clause needed to put
the euro zone on a stronger footing,” Cameron said. “From our
point of view we are not in the euro, we’re not planning to join
the euro, so any treaty change wouldn’t apply to us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  