-- Hermes Birkin Bags, IPhone Cases Spark LVMH's Stake
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-10-28T16:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/hermes-birkin-bags-315-iphone-cases-spark-lvmh-s-strategic-investment.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA 
Chairman  Bernard Arnault ’s investment in  Hermes International
SCA  brings him closer to the luxury brand he has been trying to
emulate for years.  LVMH said late yesterday it may buy more Hermes shares
after announcing on the weekend it spent 1.45 billion euros ($2
billion) on 17.1 percent of its Paris-based rival. The
investment comes as Louis Vuitton steps up efforts to become
more like Hermes by increasing prices, investing in leather
production and focusing a marketing campaign on craftsmanship.  “It looks like they’ve decided, ‘if you can’t be them, buy
them,’” said Paola Brandi, visiting professor at Paris-based
fashion university ESMOD, in a phone interview.  Mirroring the waiting lists to obtain a coveted Hermes
Birkin bag, some Vuitton customers have had to sign up for its
laminated canvas purses as demand outstrips supply, Arnault said
in July. Since September, he’s shuttered 13 of the company’s 14
standalone stores in France an hour early each day, saying
Vuitton, known for its LV monogram, needs to preserve stock for
the holiday period. Vuitton has 458 stores worldwide.  Hermes shares, most of which are held by members of its
founding family, have more than doubled over the past five
years, valuing the company at 16.9 billion euros. They fell for
a third day today, dropping 1.5 percent to 163.45 euros at 4:35
p.m. in Paris. LVMH’s stock has increased 57 percent in the same
period, giving it a market capitalization of 55 billion euros.
LVMH shares advanced 0.4 percent to 112.35 euros in Paris
trading today.  ‘Strategic’ Stake  “LVMH’s investment in Hermes International has a strategic
and long-term character,” LVMH said in a statement to France’s
stock market regulator late yesterday, using the word
“strategic” for the first time. “LVMH supports Hermes
International’s strategic vision, its growth and positioning.”  Hermes, which didn’t know about LVMH’s stake-building, said
the family wants to maintain the company’s independence.  Hermes’s best-seller is the Kelly bag, named after  Princess Grace , which retails from 7,000 euros in the euro-zone,
according to  Allegra Perry , an  analyst  at Nomura International
Plc in London. Vuitton’s is the 500-euro Neverfull. Vuitton
makes an iPhone 3G case for $250 in monogrammed canvas. Hermes
sells a $315 calfskin case for the Apple Inc. device.  “Relative to  Louis Vuitton , Hermes has a tighter range
with a higher average price point,” Perry said in an Oct. 25
report.  $540 Tea Cups  Sales  at LVMH’s fashion and leather goods division grew 15
percent in the third quarter, excluding currency moves, the
company said Oct. 14. Sales at Vuitton rose by a double-digit
percentage on the same basis. Hermes posted a 20 percent gain in
the first half, excluding currency moves, and  forecast  in August
growth of 12 percent this year.  Buying Hermes would reduce LVMH’s dependence on Vuitton,
which, according to Deutsche Bank estimates, accounts for about
55 percent of the company’s  profits . LVMH’s other leather-goods
brands, including Fendi, Loewe and Celine, have lagged Vuitton
for many years, according to  Luca Solca , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein in London.  Hermes was founded as a harness-maker in Paris in 1837,
expanding into saddles in 1880 when it moved to 24 Rue du
Faubourg Saint-Honore, then a busy intersection. It now sells
products ranging from a set of tea cups for $540 to $8,100
Jypsiere shoulder bags.  All Hermes’s leather products are hand-crafted in France by
artisans, whom the company only considers accomplished at the
full range after 15 years at their station. Each bag is made by
a single craftsman, who signs their work to prove it.  Investing in Leather  Until LVMH can control the business, which it said
yesterday it doesn’t “foresee,” it’s investing in its own
leather production. Vuitton, founded in 1854, has hired more
leather workers and is building a new leather-goods factory in
Marsaz, France, to meet demand,  Yves Carcelle , the head of
LVMH’s fashion and leather goods division, said in July. Vuitton
also started using a new tannery, LVMH said at the time.  The Marsaz “atelier” will be Vuitton’s 12th in France and
will boost production by about 10 percent, LVMH Finance Director
 Jean-Jacques Guiony  said this month. Vuitton also plans to
introduce a new supple leather line in the fourth quarter.  The investment comes as consumers demand more transparency
from brands and seek products that will last longer, researcher
Mintel International said yesterday in a report on 2011 trends.  A Birkin, which has graced the arms of celebrities from
singer  Lady Gaga  to Martha Stewart, takes an average of 15 hours
to make.  Marketing Edge  “Because its products are genuinely crafted by hand, it’s
able to charge prices that, while high, are justifiable for the
wealthy consumer,” said Brandi, who also runs her own
communications company called INKParis. “It’s more difficult
for others to do that.”  While Vuitton also makes pricey purses, such as the $4,370
Intrigue calfskin doctor’s bag, the bulk of its sales come from
the monogrammed canvas range, such as the $1,030  Alma  top
handle. Vuitton’s craftsmen use sewing machines to make some of
the products, an LVMH official said.  Vuitton’s strength lies in its marketing, Nomura’s Perry
said. Its high-visibility stores in prime locations, glossy
advertising campaigns and avant-garde runway shows “all greatly
enhance and constantly refresh the brand’s image,” she said.  Image also grants Vuitton a 40 percent operating margin,
compared to Hermes’s 24 percent, Perry estimates. Overall,
Hermes is more profitable than LVMH, which also sells liquor.  ‘Crown Jewel’  Hermes’s Birkin was created after a chance meeting between
former CEO  Jean-Louis Dumas  and the actress  Jane Birkin , who
told him what she wanted in a bag. Today, certain customers can
tweak designs at no extra cost and make custom orders, which can
cost tens of thousands of dollars and take years to deliver,
depending on the animal skin. Vuitton, which also offers made-
to-order, started a personalization service last year.  The perceived timelessness of an Hermes item and its
tightly controlled distribution allow the company to command
exclusive status and charge $315 for an iPhone case. That’s $116
more than the entry-level fourth-generation version of the phone
with a two-year service contract on Cupertino, California-based
Apple’s U.S. website.  That’s why Hermes is “the crown jewel of the luxury
industry,” according to  Rogerio Fujimori , an analyst at Credit
Suisse in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 