-- Barnier Will Focus on Commodities Trading, Basel on U.S. Trip
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-10-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/europe-s-barnier-heads-to-u-s-in-bid-to-avert-clash-on-derivatives-rules.html
European Union Financial Services
Commissioner  Michel Barnier  will meet with U.S. officials this
week in a bid to avoid clashes with American regulators over new
rules for commodities and derivatives trading.  Barnier will have two meetings with  Gary Gensler , the U.S.
Commodities and Futures Trading Commission chairman, and is
scheduled to spend part of the six-day trip at the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange. He’ll also meet with U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  for talks on global capital
requirements.  The EU is planning an overhaul of derivatives rules and has
proposed fines for traders that don’t report details of their
contracts and measures to force more transactions through
central clearinghouses. The U.S. in July adopted the Dodd-Frank
Act, which gave Gensler’s agency the ability to establish rules
governing the $615 trillion over-the-counter derivatives market.  The EU is concerned that tougher U.S. rules “could lead to
regulatory arbitrage,”  Eddy Wymeersch , the former chairman of
the Committee of European Securities Regulators, said in a
telephone interview. “Would we want a situation where all
derivatives trading in Europe would come from the U.S.? I don’t
think so.”  Barnier has said the EU rules may seek to crack down on
options trading and the build-up of large positions that lead to
volatility.  ‘Scandalous’ Speculation  Wheat traded in Chicago, a global benchmark, almost doubled
in price between July and September as a drought in Russia,
flooding in Canada and parched fields in Kazakhstan and the
European Union, ruined crops.  Dacian Ciolos , the EU’s agriculture commissioner, said the
price spike was “disproportionate” at the time and blamed
market speculation.  There is “anger” in Europe directed at “people who are
prepared to abuse the commodities market with hyper-
speculation,” Barnier said in a speech in Brussels last month.
“In my view it’s scandalous.”  Barnier is also reviewing the 27-nation bloc’s
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or Mifid, as part of
a wider overhaul of financial regulation following the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression. The European
Commission is scheduled to make a full legislative proposal by
March.  “During the financial reform debate in the U.S. there was
considerable discussion about the role of speculation,” Steve
Hinkson, director of communications for the Managed Funds
Association in the U.S. said in a telephone interview. “Our
view is that speculation, in and of itself, isn’t pejorative.”  Potential for Abuse  The “potential for abuse in markets” can be reduced by
increasing transparency and “other measures, like centralized
clearing and segregation of collateral,” Hinkson said.  Barnier’s first visit in May was aimed at harmonizing
financial regulation between the U.S. and EU on bank
supervision, capital requirements and hedge funds.  Barnier also plans to meet with  Geithner  and Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  during the trip which starts
today and includes stops in New York and Washington, according
to the EU’s  website .  Barnier must use the visit to secure commitments from the
U.S. that it will implement bank capital rules agreed last month
by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision,  Othmar Karas , the
European Parliament’s chief lawmaker on Basel issues, said in an
interview.  “We have to find an agreement with the U.S. on a common
implementation date,” Karas said. European banks won’t have a
“level playing field” if the U.S. doesn’t implement the rules,
Karas said.  Geithner and Barnier agreed that tougher bank regulation
should lead to “broadly equivalent outcomes” on both
continents following the European commissioner’s last visit to
Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  