-- Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Indian Soybean-Oil Imports to Drop, Patel Says
-- B y   C l a i r e   L e o w
-- 2010-10-27T06:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/europe-commodity-day-ahead-indian-soybean-oil-imports-to-drop-patel-says.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  ECONOMIC EVENTS, AGRIGULTURE EVENTS:  
EXCLUSIVE:  India Soybean-Oil Imports to Slump on Cheaper Supplies  Soybean oil imports by India, the second-biggest user of
cooking oils, will slump at least 19 percent next year as a
record local harvest of soybeans brings cheaper domestic
supplies, GG Patel & Nikhil Research Co. said.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Declines for a Second Day as Rally Overdone, Dollar Gains  Copper declined for a second day as the dollar strengthened
and on speculation that users in China, the world’s largest
consumer, deem the recent rally as excessive given ample
domestic supplies.  China 2010 Aluminum Consumption Better Than Expected  China’s aluminum surplus is likely to narrow next year, as
strong growth in consumption will absorb an increase an output,
according to Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  Aluminum Shipments by Japan Expand for 10th Month  Japan’s shipments of rolled-aluminum products increased 8.5
percent in September, expanding for the 10th straight month, led
by demand from can makers.  Copper-Alloy Product Output in Japan Extends Increase  Japan’s output of copper and copper-alloy fabricated
products, including sheets and tubes, jumped 13.6 percent in
September from a year earlier, increasing for the 11th month, an
industry group said.  China 2010 Aluminum Use Better Than Expected, Antaike Says  China’s aluminum surplus this year is estimated at 350,000
metric tons, down from an earlier forecast of 800,000 tons due
to strong consumption growth, said Li Yang, an analyst at
Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  MINING:  BHP May Do Cash Return If Potash Bid Fails, Morgan Stanley Says  BHP Billiton Ltd. may return $4.54 in cash a share to
shareholders if its bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.
fails, Morgan Stanley said in a report.  Oriental Peninsula Rises to Record on Nickel Shipment Outlook  Oriental Peninsula Resources Group Inc. advanced to a record
in Manila trading after the Philippine miner said it may make
its first nickel shipment either in December or January.  Macarthur Forecasts Profit Lower Than Some Estimates  Macarthur Coal Ltd., the world’s largest producer of
pulverized coal used in steelmaking, forecast first-half profit
of A$115 million ($112 million) to A$125 million, lower than
some analyst estimates.  Fortescue Sells $2.04 Billion of High-Yield Debt in Record Sale  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., Australia’s third-largest
producer of iron ore, sold $2.04 billion of five-year notes in
the biggest sale of junk-rated U.S. dollar bonds by an
Australian company.  Gertken Says Rare-Earth Issue May ‘Peter Off’ Over Time: Video  Matt Gertken, senior China analyst at Stratfor, talks about
concerns over a cut in China’s exports of rare-earth minerals.  Polymetal’s Nesis Says Ukraine Next Target for Expansion: Video  Vitaly Nesis, chief executive officer of OAO Polymetal,
talks with Bloomberg’s Ilya Khrennikov about the outlook for
production at Russia’s third-largest miner of gold and silver.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Declines on Dollar Rise; Palladium Gains to Nine-Year High  Gold declined for the first time in four days after the
dollar advanced, curbing demand for the metal as an alternative
investment. Palladium increased to a nine-year high.  Silver to Extend Rally to $26, Zeman Says: Technical Analysis  Silver prices, already outperforming gold and copper, will
extend a rally to a 30-year high, according to technical
analysis by Matthew Zeman, a trader at LaSalle Futures Group in
Chicago.  AGRICULTURE:  Soybeans Drop From 2-Year High; Rice Slips for First Day in 12  Soybeans dropped for the first day in three on speculation
that a rally to a two-year high and the dollar’s advance may
slow demand. Wheat rose for a fourth day.  Palm Oil Declines for Second Day as Commodities Slide on Dollar  Palm oil dropped for a second day after reaching a 27-month
high this week as a rebound in the dollar dented the appeal of
commodities.  Rice Imports May Surge 11 Times If Tariffs Removed, Japan Says  Japan’s rice imports may surge 11 times from the 770,000
metric tons a year bought now should it remove tariffs on
overseas supplies under a free-trade agreement with exporters
proposed by Prime Minister Naoto Kan.  Australia Wheat Exports to Saudi Arabia to Surge, CBH Forecasts  Saudi Arabia may become one of Australia’s largest wheat
markets as the country’s imports rise and after changes to
tender specifications this year opened access to the trade,
according to forecasts by CBH Group.  Vietnam Wins Orders for 6.8 Million Tons of Rice, VnEconomy Says  Vietnamese exporters have contracted to sell 6.8 million
metric tons of rice this year, newswire VnEconomy said, citing
Pham Van Bay, vice chairman of the Vietnam Food Association.  China Bought 250,000 Tons Soyoil From South America, Center Says  China bought 250,000 metric tons of soybean oil from South
America this week, the China National Grain & Oils Information
Center said in an e-mailed daily report.  Australia Bulk-Wheat Stocks Drop to 5.1 Million Tons, ABS Says  Wheat stockpiles in bulk storage in Australia dropped 24
percent from August to 5.1 million metric tons at the end of
September, according to data on the Australian Bureau of
Statistics website today.  SOFT COMMODITIES:  Rubber in Shanghai Extends Losses, Falling as Much as 2.8%  Rubber futures in Shanghai plunged as much as 2.8 percent,
extending an earlier drop. The May-delivery contract declined to
31,750 yuan a ton before trading at 32,075 yuan as of 12:29 p.m.
Tokyo time.  Rubber Supply Squeeze to ‘Worsen’ in Fourth Quarter  A natural rubber supply shortage will likely “worsen” in
the fourth quarter as unseasonal rainfall continues to disrupt
production from key growers, the Association of Natural Rubber
Producing Countries said.  Cocoa Grindings in Brazil Advance 4.3% on Month, Hartmann Says  Cocoa grindings in Brazil rose 4.3 percent in September to
338,849 bags compared with August, according to analyst Thomas
Hartmann.  Cocoa Arrivals From Brazil’s Bahia Advance 42%, Hartmann Says  Cocoa arrivals from Bahia, Brazil’s biggest growing region,
jumped 42 percent in the latest week and “high volumes are due
to persist,” according to analyst Thomas Hartmann.  LIVESTOCK:  U.S. Meatpackers May Kill Fewer Hogs Than Forecast  University of Missouri livestock economist Ron Plain
reduced his forecast for the U.S. hog slaughter in 2011 because
of rising feed costs.  WEATHER:  La Nina Remains Moderate-to-Strong, Bureau of Meteorology Says  The La Nina in the Pacific Ocean remained moderate-to-
strong event and was likely to persist into at least early 2011,
Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology said.  EXCHANGES:  Singapore’s ASX Bid Makes HKEx’s Mining Plan Tougher  A merger between Singapore Exchange Ltd. and ASX Ltd. will
make it harder for Hong Kong to win offerings by commodity
companies and achieve an expansion plan announced this year, the
chairman of the Hong Kong bourse said.  ECONOMIES:  S. Korea Economic Growth Slowed to 0.7% as Won Jumped  South Korea’s economy slowed in the third quarter as the
nation’s surging currency threatened exports and global growth
cooled, signaling more room for the central bank to pause
interest-rate increases.  OTHER MARKETS:  Oil Snaps Three-Day Gain on Dollar Strength, Crude Stockpiles  Oil dropped, snapping three days of gains, as investors
sold contracts against a strengthening dollar and on speculation
U.S. crude stockpiles climbed to the highest since June.  Dollar Rises to 1-Week High on Prospect Easing to Revive Growth  The dollar rose to a one-week high against the euro amid
speculation increased debt purchases by the Federal Reserve will
help revive economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  