-- Ex-Argentina President Kirchner Dies of Heart Attack
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2010-10-27T20:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/ex-argentine-president-nestor-kirchner-dies-after-heart-attack-c5n-says.html
Former Argentine President  Nestor Kirchner , who antagonized investors in the aftermath of the
country’s $95 billion debt default before handing power to his
wife in 2007, died of a heart attack today. He was 60.  Kirchner, who underwent heart surgery twice this year, was
rushed to the hospital this morning in the company of President
 Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  after falling ill at their home
in the Patagonian town of El Calafate.  Kirchner’s death is likely to open a “free for all” as
rivals within his Peronist party and opposition politicians seek
to gain strength ahead of presidential elections next year, said
 Walter Molano , head of research at Greenwich, Connecticut-based
BCP Securities. Argentine bonds and stocks gained on increased
speculation the country’s debt management policies could be
reversed amid the scramble for power.  “There are a lot of powerful people sitting on the
sidelines and there’s no kingmaker who’ll decide the
succession,” Molano, who carried out frequent research trips to
Buenos Aires during the country’s 2001 financial crisis, said in
a telephone interview. “Nestor was the kingmaker.”  Yields on dollar bonds due in 2033 dropped 15 basis points,
or 0.15 percentage point, to 9.28 percent, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Argentine stocks trading in New York surged the most
since 2008. Local markets are closed for a holiday.  Argentine dollar debt yields 520 basis points more than
U.S. Treasuries, the most among emerging-market countries after
Venezuela and Ecuador in JPMorgan’s benchmark EMBI+ index. The
yield gap over Treasuries declined 61 basis points today, the
biggest drop since Oct. 5, 2009.  “Long Live Peron”  The government declared three days of mourning as
supporters laid flowers and chanted “Long Live Peron” outside
the presidential palace in Buenos Aires. The former president
will lie in state tomorrow at the government palace, Labor
Minister  Carlos Tomada  said.  Fernandez’s policies are unlikely to change following the
death of who was her closest ally and force behind her
presidency, according to  Daniel Volberg , an economist at Morgan
Stanley.  “Unless you see a serious cabinet reshuffle it’s hard to
see how they would switch direction,” Volberg said in an
interview from New York. “There is little reason to tamper with
what’s going on right now unless you are going to do something
more structurally sound, which doesn’t seem to be the direction
that administration has been willing to go.”  2011 Elections  Kirchner said in July that either he or his wife would run
for president in October 2011 elections.  If Fernandez seeks a second term, she’ll face competition
from fellow Peronists including Buenos Aires province Governor
 Daniel Scioli , who served as Kirchner’s vice president, and
former President  Eduardo Duhalde , according to Molano.  Mauricio Macri , the capital’s mayor, and Radical party congressman
 Ricardo Alfonsin , the son of former president Raul Alfonsin,
have said they are considering presidential bids.  “I don’t want to sound heartless, but it does enhance the
chance of an opposition candidate winning,” said  Edwin Gutierrez , who manages about $6 billion of emerging-market debt,
including Argentine peso- and dollar-denominated securities, at
Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in London. “He is seen as a big
stumbling block” to more market-friendly policies.  Inflation Data Distortions  Kirchner took office in 2003, in the wake of Argentina’s
default and a devaluation that forced his elected predecessor,
Fernando de la Rua, to resign amid deadly protests that resulted
in five presidents in two weeks.  While boosting economic growth to an average 8.8 percent
during his term, he antagonized investors by offering creditors
bonds at 30 cents on the dollar in exchange for $95 billion in
defaulted debt, the harshest sovereign restructuring terms since
World War II. In June, Fernandez settled with holders of $12.2
billion in bonds who rejected the 2005 offering.  In 2007, he sacked several top officials at the National
Statistics Institute, a move that led investors and Fernandez’s
own Vice President,  Julio Cobos , to question the accuracy of the
agency’s inflation data.  While the government says consumer prices rose 11.1 percent
in September from a year ago, Buenos Aires-based Ecolatina
research firm said prices rose 24.7 percent in the same period.
That’s the second-highest rate in the world after Venezuela.  IMF ‘Dictatorship’  In 2007, he blamed loans and advice from the International
Monetary Fund “dictatorship” for leading the country into
failure during the 1990s. Since paying back $9.8 billion in debt
to the IMF in 2006, the government has yet to allow the
Washington-based lender to conduct a review of its finances as
it does in other member countries.  “It’s pathetic to listen to them sometimes,” Kirchner
said of the IMF in February 2005.  Last month, Kirchner had a stent implanted after doctors
found one of his coronary arteries was blocked. In February, he
had surgery to clear a blockage in his carotid artery.  Argentines gathered today and left flowers in front of the
presidential palace, known as the Pink House, while leaders from
around Latin America expressed their condolences.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said in a statement that
Kirchner “played a significant role in the political life of
Argentina and had embarked upon an important new chapter” as
president of the Union of South American Nations, or UNASUR.  The Penguin  A father of two and former lawyer, Kirchner in 2009 was
elected to Congress representing Buenos Aires province. He
earned the nickname “the Penguin” when he burst onto the
national scene during the financial crisis after serving three
terms as Governor of oil-rich Santa Cruz, Argentina’s
southernmost mainland province.  In addition to restoring economic growth, he gained
popularity for overturning amnesty laws for former military and
police officers involved in torture and killing of as many as
30,000 Argentines during the country’s 1976-83 dictatorship.  Kirchner will be “remembered both as having helped get
Argentina out of a very bad recession, but also for trying to
restructure the political system in such a way that he and his
wife could continue endlessly,” said  Susan Purcell , director of
the center for Hemispheric Policy at the University of Miami in
a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  