-- Executive Lived in `Lap of Luxury' on Lam, Marshal Says
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-10-27T22:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/ex-national-century-executive-parrett-arrested-in-mexico-prosecutors-say.html
Rebecca Parrett , a former National
Century Financial Enterprises Inc. executive who fled the U.S.
to avoid a 25-year prison term, was arrested in a Mexican resort
town where she liked to dance, a U.S. official said.  Parrett, 62, was picked up yesterday by Mexican immigration
authorities in Ajijic, Jalisco, Deputy U.S. Marshal Brian
Babtist said today. Parrett was convicted in Columbus, Ohio, in
March 2008 for her role in a $2.9 billion fraud. Days later,
while out on bail, she fled her home in Carefree, Arizona. She
was declared a fugitive and sentenced in absentia in March 2009.  “She was living in the lap of luxury,” Babtist said in a
telephone interview from Columbus. “She was having fun, telling
people that she was an American who had testified against
several people in a large white-collar crime case. She was
trying to stay anonymous and using an alias.”  Parrett was flown yesterday from Guadalajara to Los
Angeles, where she was arrested on a warrant, he said.  U.S. Magistrate Judge  Jacqueline Chooljian , at a hearing
today in federal court in Los Angeles, ordered Parrett to be
detained and transferred to Columbus. Parrett, who was
represented by a public defender, waived her right to an
identity hearing in Los Angeles.  She was convicted with four other executives in 2008 of
fraud, money laundering and conspiracy. She was also ordered to
pay $2.38 billion in restitution. Parrett, a former vice
chairman, secretary and treasurer, was one of 10 executives who
were convicted at trial or pleaded guilty.  Anti-Aging Treatments  “I’ve heard that she liked to go out dancing,” Babtist
said. “She was getting treatments from a Mexican anti-aging
doctor regularly. For somebody who’s on the run, it was pretty
good.”  Agents had long suspected that Parrett was in Mexico,
Babtist said. “It was a matter of narrowing down the search and
actually pinpointing the location,” he said.  Ajijic is on the north shore of  Lake Chapala .  “The Marshals Service has followed all leads and devoted
countless hours to the search for Parrett,”  Carter M. Stewart ,
the U.S. attorney for the Southern District of Ohio, said in a
statement.  In July, Parrett’s sister, Linda Case, was sentenced to six
months in prison followed by eight months of home confinement
for lying to authorities about her whereabouts.  Unpaid Bills  National Century, based in Dublin, Ohio, helped hospitals
and medical groups raise money by buying their unpaid insurance
bills. The company then sold bonds that were supposed to be
backed by those receivables. The receivables were often
worthless, prosecutors said. The company filed for bankruptcy in
November 2002.  National Century’s collapse hastened the bankruptcies of
275 hospitals, clinics and other health-care providers,
authorities said. Victims included Pacific Investment Management
Co., the world’s largest bond fund.  Pimco  lost $283 million and
 Credit Suisse Group AG  lost $257 million, prosecutors said.  Former National Century Chief Executive Officer  Lance Poulsen , who founded the company, received a 30-year sentence.
He has appealed the sentence and conviction.  Parrett, who left her sixth husband in Carefree, was the
subject of a multistate search by U.S. marshals. She was
 featured  on the website of “America’s Most Wanted,” News
Corp.’s Fox television show about fugitives.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  agreed to pay $425 million in 2006 to
settle claims by National Century noteholders in Arizona. The
noteholders said JPMorgan and other banks underwrote or were
trustees of the notes used to defraud investors.  Babtist couldn’t say how Parrett financed her life on the
run. “I don’t know where the money came from, whether she was
getting outside help or she was using the stolen funds from the
fraud case,” he said.  The case is U.S. v. Poulsen, 06-129, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 