-- Ex-San Diego Officials Agree to Pay Fines to End SEC Pension Fraud Case
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-10-27T18:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/ex-san-diego-officials-agree-to-pay-fines-to-end-sec-s-pension-fraud-case.html
Four former San Diego officials
agreed to pay $80,000 to settle a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission fraud  suit  that accused them of failing to disclose
the size of pension-fund shortfalls when the city sold bonds.  The settlements, which a judge must approve, would conclude
a case filed more than two years ago against the officials,
including former City Manager  Michael Uberuaga  and one-time
Treasurer Mary Vattimo. The officials didn’t admit or deny the
allegations, according to court documents. San Diego settled an
SEC fraud case without paying fines in 2006.  The actions stem from the city’s decisions, dating to the
mid-1990s, to increase pension benefits while failing to set
aside enough money to cover the cost, and to use investment
returns to pay health-care costs. The strategy backfired when
the Internet stock bubble collapsed, leaving the city to contend
with gaps between its assets and what it promised workers.  The regulators said the city and officials made false and
misleading statements in 2002 and 2003, when San Diego sold more
than $260 million of bonds and failed to disclose that the
pension deficit was projected to soar to $2 billion by 2009.  The shortfall led to cuts in the city’s credit rating and
prompted talk among political candidates five years ago that it
should seek bankruptcy protection. The shortfall came to light
in 2004, when the city disclosed that it found errors in its
annual financial statement, and led to the resignation of Mayor
 Dick Murphy  the following year.  First Officials Fined  The San Diego settlements mark the first time that the SEC
has won financial penalties from public officials in a municipal
bond fraud case, the agency said in a statement today.  “Municipal officials have a personal obligation to ensure
that investors are provided with complete and accurate
information about the issuer’s financial condition,”  Rosalind Tyson , director of the SEC’s Los Angeles Regional Office, said
in a statement. “These former San Diego officials are paying a
price for their actions that jeopardized the interests of
investors and put the city’s current and future retirees at
risk.”  The SEC has established a unit to crack down on fraud in
the $2.8 trillion municipal bond market, including cases tied to
pension funds. In August, New Jersey settled claims it didn’t
disclose to investors that it failed to put enough cash into its
two biggest pension plans when it sold $26 billion of bonds from
2001 to 2007. It was the SEC’s first action against a state.  Officials Settle  Four of the five San Diego officials accused in the case
settled, according to documents released by the court last week.  Former City Manager Uberuaga, former auditor and
Comptroller Edward Ryan and former Deputy City Manager for
Finance Patricia Frazier each agreed to pay $25,000 fines, while
former Treasurer Vattimo would pay $5,000.  Lawyers for the four former officials didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment.  No settlement was filed for Teresa Webster, the former
assistant auditor and comptroller.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 