-- Meyer Makes Convexity Exceed Targets Harvard Fails to Replicate
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/meyer-makes-convexity-beat-targets-with-returns-harvard-fails-to-replicate.html
Lou Morrell wasted no time putting
money into Convexity Capital Management LP after  Jack Meyer , the
former Harvard University chief investment officer, started the
firm in 2005.  Morrell, who was CIO at  Wake Forest University  in Winston-
Salem,  North Carolina , flew to  Boston  to visit Meyer at his new
offices in the John Hancock Tower, the tallest in  New England .
Meyer, flanked by top lieutenant David Mittelman, explained how
they would offer strategies similar to those they used to
quintuple assets from 1990 at the world’s richest university.  “He brought Mittelman in there and talked about strategies
and how the whole thing worked and the next thing we knew, we
were an investor,” Morrell, who retired last year, said in a
telephone interview. Meyer’s fund “was totally committed in a
few days,” he said.  Since he began trading in February 2006, Meyer’s returns
have exceeded a group of market indexes by an annual average of
about 8 percentage points, or double Convexity’s target,
according to four investors. The firm, which attracted a record
$6.3 billion from endowments and foundations as a hedge-fund
startup, had $11.1 billion in assets as of March 31, said the
clients, who asked not to be named because the firm is private.  Harvard Management Co., which runs the university’s
endowment, had an annual average gain of 4.7 percent over the
past five years, compared with a 3 percent increase for its
internal benchmark.  Leadership Changes  The endowment had four different leaders since Meyer
departed with more than 30 employees amid an outcry over pay.
Mohamed El-Erian spent less than two years there before
returning in December 2007 to Pacific Investment Management Co.
in  Newport Beach ,  California . Two interim heads, Peter Nadosy
and Robert Kaplan, ran the fund before and after his tenure.  Under Jane Mendillo, who was hired as Harvard Management’s
chief executive officer in July 2008, the endowment missed its
internal benchmark in the first year. Investments lost a record
27 percent, compared with a 25 percent decline for the
benchmark, as the worst financial crisis in three generations
slashed the fund in June 2009 to roughly the same level as when
Meyer and his team departed. Investments rose 11 percent in the
past year, beating the school’s own benchmark while trailing the
returns of a broad group of institutions.  Harvard’s fund stood at $25.9 billion in 2005, more than
five times its $4.7 billion level 15 years earlier, when Meyer
became CEO of Harvard Management. Meyer averaged gains of 16
percent a year in his last decade. Among the biggest U.S.
endowments, it trailed  Yale University , in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , and  Duke University  in Durham, North Carolina,
which averaged 17 percent.  Meyer, 65, declined to comment, as did John Longbrake, a
spokesman for Harvard in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Aiming for Alpha  Convexity seeks to track the returns of indexes selected by
its clients while providing an additional gain, known as alpha,
of about 4 percentage points at each investment pool, according
to an investor document obtained by Bloomberg News. The amount
of alpha depends on the “success of long/short and other
relative value strategies executed principally in the fixed-
income and related markets,” the document says.  Investors can choose among 15 indexes, allowing funds to
use a mix of asset classes for diversification. The benchmarks
with the most investor assets as of Dec. 31 were  Barclays
Capital  More Than Five Years TIPS Index, with 24 percent; MSCI
EAFE Net Dividends Reinvested, with 18 percent; and Standard &
Poor’s 500 Total Return, with 16 percent.  Client Fees  The firm levies a management fee of 1.25 percent a year on
assets, and takes 20 percent of returns generated above
benchmarks.  It also charges clients as much as 50 basis points if they
choose to switch between benchmarks at the start of each
quarter, and a monthly fee of 2.3 basis points to replicate some
indexes. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percent.  For an investor that chose the S&P 500 Total Return Index,
which lost an average of 2.4 percent a year from February 2006
through August, the annualized gain after fees was about 4.7
percent. The HFR Equity Hedge Index returned an annual average
of 1.6 percent in that span.  Convexity uses 10 investing strategies centered on options
trading and asset swaps that are similar to those Meyer and his
team employed at Harvard, seeking to take advantage of different
market climates.  Meyer’s Strategy  At Harvard, Meyer, like Yale’s  David Swensen , cut holdings
of stocks and bonds and loaded up on real estate, private equity
and natural resources. Unlike Swensen, who invested most of his
school’s money with outside managers, Meyer built up internal
trading teams that managed as much as 85 percent of the fund.  Investment firms including Highfields Capital Management LP
and Adage Capital Partners LP were founded by former Meyer
traders Jonathon Jacobson, Phillip Gross and Robert Atchinson
and occupy offices in the same building as Convexity.  Meyer’s former employees who joined him at Convexity
included bond traders Maurice Samuels and Mittelman, Harvard’s
highest-paid endowment managers in 2003, earning $35.1 million
and $34.1 million, respectively.  Members of the class of 1969 wrote a letter to then-
President  Lawrence Summers , saying the money would be better
spent on scholarships.  When Convexity opened, Harvard Management pledged $500
million to the fund. Endowments make up more than half of
Meyer’s clients.  Endowment Losses  As U.S. endowments suffered record losses from the global
financial crisis in fiscal 2009, Convexity’s three-year lock-up
on capital expired. Investors including Harvard, facing a cash
crunch, withdrew $1.59 billion, while making $1.24 billion in
deposits. Convexity ended the year with $10.6 billion.  The firm’s employee count rose to 67 as of Dec. 31,
including 18 money managers, from 43 at the end of 2005.  Convexity takes its name from a term used by fixed-income
traders in measuring a bond’s sensitivity to movements in  interest rates . Traders stand to win more than they can lose in
trades with “positive convexity.” The strategy works best in
volatile markets.  In Meyer’s first year, the fund trailed benchmarks by 4
percentage points to 6 percentage points, the investors said.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, a measure
of U.S. stock market swings known as the VIX, reached a low of
9.90 on Nov. 21, 2006, as it declined for the fourth straight
year.  His performance improved as market fluctuations returned,
with the VIX averaging 28.7 since the start of August 2007.
Convexity’s best year was in 2009, when the fund beat indexes by
about 20 percentage points, investors said.  Risks  “There’s always a chance of something blowing up,” said
William T. Spitz,  Vanderbilt University ’s chief investment
officer of 23 years, who committed at least $50 million after
Meyer visited him in Nashville,  Tennessee , to pitch the fund as
he was raising capital. “You have to make sure they have the
correct systems and controls. The other major risk is if we go
back into a period of low volatility, you might have the same
experience as the first year or two.”  Mendillo took over Harvard’s management two months before
the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy helped trigger
the market rout leading to the deepest loss in the school’s 374-
year history. The plunge in assets prompted the university to
cut jobs, freeze salaries and postpone construction of a $1
billion science center.  As the fund tumbled, Mendillo accelerated a return to
Meyer’s playbook and added staff, expanding internal trading
beyond 30 percent of assets to allow for more control and
flexibility.  Over the past two years, the endowment has lagged behind
its peers tracked by Wilshire Associates, a consulting firm in  Santa Monica , California.  Institutional funds, including public and corporate
pensions, endowments and foundations, returned a median of 13
percent in the year ended June 30, according to Wilshire
Associates. Harvard’s endowment climbed to $27.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in  New York  at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 