-- Fans Plot World Series Sweep to Bars, MLB.com Amid Cablevision Shutout
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/fans-plot-world-series-sweep-to-bars-mlb-com-amid-tv-blackout.html
Baseball fan Jon Eisenstein set up a
new 55-inch, 3-D television at his house ahead of the World
Series opener today. He can’t count on watching the Texas
Rangers and San Francisco Giants on it though.  Eisenstein is a customer of  Cablevision Systems Corp. ,
which lost the rights to show Fox broadcasts including the World
Series in a fee dispute with Fox parent  News Corp.  So he’ll
likely head to a sports bar near his home to catch the games.  “I’ll probably end up going to Buffalo Wild Wings,” said
Eisenstein, a 36-year-old marketing company executive who lives
in Stamford, Connecticut, referring to the chain that offers 50
chicken-wing orders and cheeseburgers topped with onion rings
and pulled pork.  Fox cut its broadcasts on Cablevision two weeks ago, after
the two sides failed to agree on how much the cable operator
should pay for programming. The standoff has sent baseball fans
digging through closets for antennas, scoping out local sports
bars and searching online for broadcasts of baseball’s
championship.  News Corp., run by billionaire  Rupert Murdoch , has set up a
website to encourage Cablevision customers to switch their
television service. The site,  keepfoxon.com , lets people plug in
a Zip code to find pay-TV alternatives, including DirecTV, Dish
Network Corp. and  Verizon Communications Inc. , which sells its
FiOS TV service in the New York area.  Verizon  has seen a pickup in new subscribers since the
conflict began, said spokesman  John Bonomo , without providing
specific figures. The carrier has increased the size of its
installation crews and extended call-center hours into the
evenings and weekends to keep up with demand, he said.  Digging Out an Antenna  DirecTV  has also added customers since the blackout started,
said  Robert Mercer , a spokesman, without giving details.  Francie Bauer , a spokeswoman for Dish, declined to comment.  Jim Maiella , a spokesman for Cablevision, declined to
comment on how many customers the company may be losing because
of the stand-off. He called on Fox to end the blackout and agree
to binding arbitration.  Nikki Adams, an assistant manager at a bank who lives on
Long Island, switched to Verizon from Cablevision within a few
days of losing Fox. Programs like the “Wendy Williams Show”
and “House” were too much to give up, she said, and she wants
to watch the World Series.  Daniel Jalkut, a San Francisco Giants fan who lives in
Brooklyn, opted for older technology. He hunted through storage
boxes for 20 minutes to track down an antenna that could pick up
over-the-air broadcasts, the standard approach before cable
service. The software engineer is going to try to get Fox’s
high-definition broadcasts of the games.  MLB.com Option  “It’s not great, but since it’s an HD broadcast, when it
does tune in, it’s perfect,” said Jalkut. “It’s kind of an
all-or-nothing thing with digital broadcast.”  Jalkut said he’s happy with  Cablevision ’s other services
and doesn’t plan to switch to get access to Fox stations for the
time being.  Some baseball fans are choosing online options. Ivi Inc.,
based in Seattle, lets customers watch live broadcast television
on their computers for $4.99 a month. The company was sued last
month by broadcasters for streaming video online without
authorization.  MLB.com  is advertising live-game broadcasts and “no
blackouts” for $9.95 in the U.S. and Canada. Subscribers can
stream video, with limited views that don’t include the standard
broadcast, to computers and Apple Inc.’s iPads and iPhones. Dave
Wadsworth, who lives in Central Valley, New York and travels for
work, is considering signing up for the MLB.com package.  The best option may be to “just buy the package and watch
the whole thing on your computer,” Wadsworth said in an
interview. “Technology makes it pretty easy now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 