-- Fed Easing to Signify End of Bull Market, Gross Says
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-27T15:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/fed-easing-likely-to-mark-end-of-30-year-bull-market-for-bonds-gross-says.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
largest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said a
renewal of asset purchases by the Federal Reserve will likely
signify the end of the 30-year  bull market  in bonds.  “Check writing in the trillions is not a bondholder’s
friend,” Gross wrote in his monthly investment outlook posted
on Newport Beach, California-based Pimco’s website today. “It
is in fact inflationary, and, if truth be told, somewhat of a
Ponzi scheme. It raises bond prices to create the illusion of
high annual returns, but ultimately it reaches a dead end where
those prices can no longer go up.”  The Fed, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , will announce
another round of large-scale asset purchases when policy makers
meet next week after deploying $1.7 trillion to pull the economy
out of the financial crisis, according to a survey of the 18
primary dealers that trade debt with the central bank. Fed
officials, who already cut interest rates almost to zero, are
discussing more purchases of Treasuries to flood markets with
cheap money as well as strategies for raising inflation
expectations to prevent stagnating prices from undermining the
recovery.  Gross, a founder and co-chief investment officer of Pimco,
said in March that bonds may have seen their best days while
making an argument for investors to own fewer. He reduced
holdings of government-related debt in the  Total Return Fund  for
the third straight month in September, after the securities
accounted for 63 percent of assets in June, the highest since it
held an equal amount in October 2009.  Less Government Debt  The $252 billion Total Return Fund’s investment in
government debt was cut to 33 percent of assets in September,
from 36 percent the previous month, according to the company’s
website. Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly changes in
portfolio holdings.  The  yield  on the 10-year Treasury note dropped from a 2010
high of 4.01 percent in April to a low of 2.33 percent on Oct.
8, according to Bloomberg data, as investors purchased
Treasuries in anticipation of further asset purchases by the
central bank. The record of 2.04 percent was set in December
2008.  “Having arrived at its destination, the market then offers
near zero percent returns and a picking of the creditor’s pocket
via inflation and negative real interest rates,” Gross wrote.
“It will likely signify the end of a great 30-year bull market
in bonds and the necessity for bond managers and, yes, equity
managers to adjust to a new environment,” Gross wrote.  Deflation Threat  Treasuries have returned 8.3 percent this year after losing
3.7 percent in 2009, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes.  The Fed is driven to further easing due to low inflation
and a threat of deflation, where falling asset prices, including
home values, result in consumers and businesses that are less
willing to spend and invest. Inflation, a rise in the prices of
goods and services, would enable more value, production and
consumer activity.  “This is not a Bernanke scheme, because this is his only
alternative and he shares no responsibility for its origin,”
Gross wrote. “I call it a Sammy scheme, in honor of Uncle Sam
and the politicians -- as well as citizens -- who have brought
us to this critical moment in time. You and I, and the
politicians that we elect every two years, deserve all the
blame.”  Volcker Fed  Policy makers have historically focused on containing
inflation rather than preventing deflation. Core consumer
prices, which exclude food and fuel, were little changed in
September, capping a 0.8 percent increase in the past 12 months,
the smallest year-over-year gain since 1961.  Inflation climbed to a 14.8 percent annual rate in March
1980, driving 10-year yields to 13.65 percent that year and to
an all-time high of 15.8 percent the following year. Former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  broke the back of
inflation by raising  rates  as high as 20 percent, even as the
economy slipped into the longest post-World War II recession to
win back confidence among investors.  By the time Volcker stepped down from the Fed in 1987,
inflation slowed to 4.3 percent and benchmark borrowing costs
were 6.75 percent.  ‘Liquidity Trap’  “We are, as even some Fed Governors now publically admit,
in a ‘liquidity trap,’ where interest rates or trillions in QEII
asset purchases may not stimulate borrowing or lending because
consumer demand is just not there,” Gross wrote. “Escaping
from a liquidity trap may be impossible, much like light trapped
in a black hole.”  Under what Pimco calls the “new normal,” investors should
expect lower-than-average historical returns with heightened
regulation, lower consumption, slower growth and a shrinking
global role for the U.S. economy.  “If QEII cannot reflate capital markets, if it can’t
produce 2 percent inflation and an assumed reduction of
unemployment rates back towards historical levels, then it will
be a long, painful slog back to prosperity,” Gross wrote.  As part of adjusting to a new normal, Pimco began offering
equity funds in April, and had inflows of about $1 billion,
Pimco said in September. The firm moved into stocks to allow
customers to diversify their holdings as the global economy
changes and areas such as emerging markets outperform developed
regions.  Pimco added to its mortgage  holdings  in September to 28
percent of assets, from 21 percent the prior month. Pimco also
expanded its emerging-market debt to 12 percent last month, the
highest since at least September 2006. Non-U.S. developed debt
was unchanged at 6 percent.  The  Total Return Fund , also the world’s biggest mutual
fund, handed investors a gain of about 11.78 percent in the past
year, beating about 76 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer
Allianz SE, managed $1.236 trillion of assets as of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  