-- Fidelity National Drops Plan for Lender Foreclosure Guarantee
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-10-27T16:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/fidelity-national-drops-plan-for-lender-foreclosure-guarantee.html
Fidelity National Financial Inc. ,
the largest U.S. title insurer, canceled a requirement for
lenders to guarantee proper foreclosure procedures amid
“heightened review” processes by banks.  The company won’t require an indemnity agreement before
insuring individual foreclosed properties, according to a
memorandum to employees yesterday. It will continue the
arrangement with Bank of America Corp., the largest U.S. lender.  Fidelity National reversed course from a requirement put in
place a week ago after institutions took steps to police
foreclosure paperwork, according to the memo. Failure of other
insurers to follow its lead also put the Jacksonville, Florida-
based company at a competitive disadvantage, said  Peter Sadowski , executive vice president and chief legal officer.  “Although competition was a factor, we wouldn’t take undue
risk for competitive reasons,” Sadowski said in an interview.
“We feel comfortable with the new process.”  The company said on Oct. 20 that an indemnity covering
foreclosure paperwork must be signed for all foreclosure sales
closing on or after Nov. 1. The agreement was prepared in
consultation with mortgage finance companies  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac and the American Land Title Association, an industry
trade group, after some lenders canceled sales of foreclosed
properties amid allegations of shoddy paperwork.  Attorneys general across the country have opened a joint
investigation into foreclosures, saying they will seek an
immediate halt to any improper practices.  Fannie, Freddie Guidelines  Rules adopted by state courts and instructions issued by
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac earlier this month requiring its
servicers to “review all pending foreclosure proceedings to
ensure compliance with applicable law” make an indemnity
agreement unnecessary, Fidelity National said in its memo.  Bank of America’s  indemnity agreement with Fidelity
National, signed Oct. 8, still stands, Sadowski said.  “They think the indemnity is an easier way to go for
them,” he said.  The company may make individual agreements with other
lenders, according to the memo.  Fidelity National shares dropped 14 percent this month
through yesterday amid concern that foreclosure mistakes may
allow former owners to challenge the repossession of their
homes. Shares of Santa Ana, California-based First American
Financial Corp., the No. 2 insurer, fell 3.6 percent. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 3.9 percent in that time.  Fidelity National slid 12 percent on Oct. 21 after its
chief executive officer stepped down and the company said it
will use a smaller portion of earnings for  dividends .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Kucera  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  