-- Financial Overhaul Should Help Long-Term Growth, Paulson Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2010-10-27T15:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/financial-overhaul-should-help-long-term-growth-paulson-says.html
The financial overhaul law passed in
July should provide greater long-term growth for the economy,
former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson  said.  “We’re going to have greater and more consistent long-term
growth if we have financial big banks that are better
regulated,” he said today in Boston at a conference hosted by
San Francisco-based brokerage  Charles Schwab Corp.  “Clearly a
lot has to do with how the regulations are written, how they are
enforced and how they are used,” he said.  Paulson, 64, was Treasury secretary from 2006 to 2009
during the presidency of  George W. Bush . He discussed the
financial crisis with  Liz Ann Sonders , Schwab’s chief investment
strategist, before an audience of investment advisers.  Paulson proposed the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief
Program to Congress after the Sept. 15, 2008, collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  and it was enacted in October 2008 to
inject capital into hundreds of banks, including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. ,  Citigroup Inc.  and  Bank of America Corp.   The former Cabinet official said the country now has a
systemic-risk regulator and authority for winding down failing
firms. “No institution should be too big to fail,” he said.  Current Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told
Congress in a report on Oct. 5 that final losses from the U.S.
bank rescue will be limited to housing and auto industry
assistance. Paulson said today TARP is a “success” that
prevented a greater financial collapse and that the money will
come back to taxpayers.  Paulson is now an adviser to Coda Automotive, an electric-
carmaker based in Santa Monica, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 