-- FKP Property Advances in Sydney on Speculation of Possible Stockland Bid
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-10-27T02:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/fkp-property-advances-in-sydney-on-speculation-of-possible-stockland-bid.html
FKP Property Group  soared to the
 highest  in two years in Sydney trading on speculation Stockland,
its second-biggest shareholder, may seek to acquire the real-
estate company after selling out of rival  GPT Group  today.  FKP shares  rose  3.3 percent to 95 Australian cents at 12:25
p.m. in Sydney, the highest since October 2008. The shares
earlier surged as much as 8.2 percent. Stockland is comfortable
with its current 14.9 percent  stake  in FKP, spokeswoman Katie
Lennon said. FKP spokesman Brett Zarb declined to comment.  With Stockland’s focus on retirement, residential
communities and retail assets, “it’s not a long shot to
conclude they’re about to have a go at the rest of FKP,” said
 Will Seddon , who helps oversee A$350 million ($342 million) at
White Funds Management in Sydney.  Stockland, Australia’s biggest diversified property group,
today said it was selling its 13.1 percent stake in  GPT , held in
a derivative structure, at a A$208 million loss. The company,
which last month won agreement to its A$320 million
takeover bid for  Aevum Ltd. , now owns 83 percent of the Sydney-
based retirement village operator, according to Bloomberg  data .  FKP’s retirement assets would be valued at about A$1.15 a
share if the price Stockland paid for Aevum was applied to them,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. real estate analyst  Peter Zuk  wrote in
a note dated Sept. 21. FKP’s current price offers a buying
opportunity, said  Winston Sammut , managing director of Maxim
Asset Management.  FKP’s share gain “was sparked by Stockland’s move,” said
Sammut. “Stockland had three strategic stakes, and its only
remaining stake now is FKP.”  Stockland  shares  rose 1.1 percent to A$3.82 in Sydney,
while  GPT  shares fell 0.7 percent to A$2.83.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  