-- U.S. Holding Banks Accountable on Foreclosures, Caldwell Says
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-10-27T20:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/foreclosure-documentation-compliance-stepped-up-by-u-s-treasury-says.html
The Treasury Department official
leading Obama administration efforts to stem foreclosures said
the government is working to ensure borrowers are being treated
fairly while avoiding delays that could lower housing prices.  Federal regulators have “stepped up compliance efforts”
in response to claims that banks may have used faulty documents
to seize homes, said  Phyllis Caldwell , chief of Treasury’s
Homeownership Preservation Office, in  testimony  today for a
congressional oversight panel. The U.S. is aiming to make sure
lenders are proceeding properly on foreclosures while avoiding
delays that could harm real-estate markets, she said.  “Longer foreclosure timelines will likely lead to lower
sales prices of houses that are already in the foreclosure
process,” Caldwell said. “This would hurt homeowners and home-
buyers alike at a time when foreclosed homes make up 25 percent
of home sales.”  Caldwell appeared before the Congressional Oversight Panel
for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, which called a hearing to
review President  Barack Obama ’s foreclosure-prevention efforts.
Panel members used the hearing to probe Treasury’s response to
questions surrounding foreclosure documentation, which led Ally
Financial Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp.
to temporarily halt home seizures.  Eleven U.S. agencies are examining the matter and attorneys
general from all 50 states have launched an investigation,
Caldwell said.  “We are watching this every day,” she said. “At this
stage there appears to be no evidence of systemic risk.”  Mortgage Buybacks  The documentation questions have increased pressure on
lenders already facing investor demands that they buy back
defaulted loans that were poorly underwritten.  Pacific Investment Management Co. LLC, BlackRock Inc.,
MetLife Inc., the Federal Reserve Bank of New York,  Freddie Mac 
and other holders of mortgage-backed securities are seeking to
force Bank of America to repurchase mortgages packaged into $47
billion of bonds by its Countrywide Financial Corp. unit. In an
Oct. 18 letter to the bank, the group cited alleged failures by
Countrywide to service the loans properly.  “It’s not a plausible suggestion that there’s no systemic
risk here,” said  Damon Silvers , a panel member and director of
policy at the AFL-CIO labor federation, citing the potential
impact of buybacks on Bank of America.  Panel members also faulted the Making Home Affordable
Program, saying the foreclosure mitigation effort funded with
$50 billion in TARP money hasn’t met the Obama administration’s
goal of aiding 3 million to 4 million homeowners.  “I am concerned,” said Senator  Ted Kaufman , the Delaware
Democrat who leads the panel. “Treasury cannot and should not
prevent every foreclosure in this country, but it can and must
do far, far better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 