-- Foreclosure Lawyers Go to Gardner's Farm for Edge on Lenders
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2010-10-27T14:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/foreclosure-woodstock-lures-lawyers-to-max-s-farm-seeking-edge-on-lenders.html
Consumer lawyers have been traveling
to a remote 160-acre farm in the mountains of western  North
Carolina  since 2006 to network, drink Scotch and prepare for
legal combat in  foreclosure  and bankruptcy cases.  They arrive in groups of a dozen or so for a four-day boot
camp where they learn how to protect their clients’ assets by
exploiting the mistakes of creditors. Attendees these days are
especially keen on strategies to fend off mortgage lenders and
servicers seeking to seize their clients’ homes.  Their instructor is O. Max Gardner III, a 65-year-old
bankruptcy litigator and grandson of a North Carolina governor,
who was using flaws in mortgage servicing to stave off lenders
years before cases involving shoddy paperwork spurred this
month’s investigation of the industry by the attorneys general
of all 50 states. He charges $7,775 for the program, which
covers 3,000 pages of materials, lodging, food and unlimited
wine, beer and single-malt Scotch.  “My time with Max changed the trajectory of my legal
career,” Nick Wooten, a 40-year-old Alabama attorney who
changed his focus from personal injury to bankruptcy and
foreclosure after attending the boot camp in 2007, said in a
telephone interview. “Knowledge is power, and one thing he is
able to give in his boot camp is a tremendous amount of
knowledge about how the other side operates.”  Participants, who are admitted only after a background
check confirms that they don’t work for creditors, gain access
to a private e-mail distribution list where they share legal
strategies, documents and advice. Linda Tirelli, a consumer-
bankruptcy attorney in New York and Connecticut and one of the
599 people who have gone through the program, said she feels
like she’s now part of a big law firm.  National Issue  While Gardner and some of his graduates have been winning
settlements for years, it wasn’t until Ally Financial Inc.’s
GMAC Mortgage unit said Sept. 20 it was halting some evictions
that foreclosure documentation and the use of robo-signers
became a national issue that threatened to stall sales of
repossessed homes and gave investors ammunition in their fight
to force banks to buy back billions of dollars of mortgage-
linked securities.  “We had a steep hill to climb to convince the judges that
the largest financial institutions in America were engaged in
this kind of conduct,” Gardner said in an interview during a
break in this month’s session.  Bunking in Cabins  Students travel along a gravel road to reach Gardner’s
place in the South Mountains about 60 miles (97 kilometers)
northwest of Charlotte, North Carolina. They sleep in cabins and
swap stories over meals prepared by Gardner’s wife, Victoria, in
the family’s three-story log cabin-style house on a hill
overlooking a spring-fed pond. During days that run 10 to 12
hours, Gardner lectures on topics including “Max’s Favorite
Discovery Devices,” “Strategy to Trap Opponents in their Own
Mistakes,” “Mortgage Servicing Litigation: How the Legal
Network for Creditors is Organized” and “The Alphabet Problem,
A to D Unlawful Transfer of Mortgages and Notes.”  Guest speakers at the October session included a forensic
accountant, a North Carolina Superior Court judge and the former
vice president and general counsel of Saxon Mortgage Inc., which
is owned by  Morgan Stanley .  The heart of Gardner’s strategy is to uncover omissions and
errors in mortgage securitizations, the process in which
thousands of loans are bundled into bonds and sold to investors.
Securitizations are plagued by lost promissory notes and missing
or inconsistent tracking of changes in loan ownership, Gardner
said in the interview. Servicers processing default actions
papered over the errors with improperly prepared affidavits and
after-the-fact assignments of mortgages, he said.  ‘Robo-signers’  “One of my primary objectives is to give you enough
knowledge so that you can understand more about the business
structure and organization of the creditors than their own
lawyers know,” he told the boot-camp class.  He started the sessions after piecing together evidence
that lenders and servicers were relying on teams of workers --
dubbed “robo-signers” in cases brought by other lawyers -- to
process thousands of foreclosure documents a day without the
time to verify them.  One tactic Gardner employs in court is to allow creditors
that produce dubious evidence to “dig their own grave.”  “I wouldn’t go in waving documents around,” he said.
“The more false documents and inconsistent documents I get the
other side to produce, the more legal leverage I have against
them.”  Gardner’s boot camp is the “story behind the story,” said
attorney Tirelli, who attended the program in October 2008 after
first balking at the price.  More Profitable Practice  Tirelli, a sole practitioner who works on contingency, said
she now makes four times more from a case than she did before
changing her business model. Gardner, who devotes one wall in
the boot-camp classroom to framed settlement checks, tells
students they can be more profitable by concentrating on a
smaller number of cases. Tirelli, who accepts no more than 20
clients a month, said she has the confidence to go up against
what Gardner calls “tall building law firms” because the
community of graduates located in 47 states functions as a unit,
exchanging documents and discovering patterns of misconduct, she
said.  “It’s a fraternity,” Tirelli said. “We don’t see each
other as competition. We want more attorneys to join because the
more we have the better.”  Compensation Varies  Private attorneys working on behalf of homeowners can be
paid in different ways, said Margery Golant, a lawyer in Boca
Raton, Florida, who attended the boot camp in August 2009 and
handles foreclosure cases. Some are paid by clients, many of
whom have cash even though they are in default because they
aren’t making mortgage payments, she said.  There are also opportunities to negotiate uncovered fees in
settlements with creditors. If a bankruptcy court judge rules
that a mortgage firm has submitted false evidence, the court can
order the creditor to pay legal fees, Golant said.  Borrowers who can’t afford attorneys sometimes turn to
legal-services organizations such as  Jacksonville Area Legal Aid 
in Florida, where boot-camp graduate April Charney has worked
since 2004 -- the year she met Gardner. They met at a conference
of consumer lawyers in Minneapolis, and Gardner later offered
her a scholarship to attend training.  Document Disagreement  While Charney considers Gardner a mentor, she said she
disagrees with his assertion that servicers likely produced
false affidavits and other documents because of the time and
expense involved in pulling the originals from custodians.
Charney, who also trains lawyers how to defend clients’ homes,
said the mortgage firms simply don’t have the documents.  Most foreclosures go unchallenged because homeowners rarely
hire attorneys. That began to change as judges began questioning
whether banks were producing sufficient proof that they had
standing to foreclose. Gardner advocates using mortgage firms’
faulty evidence as leverage to secure affordable loan
modifications for clients and have creditors cover all attorney
fees.  Forcing banks to write down loans could push losses to
taxpayers and investors in mortgage-backed securities, said
Patrick Randolph, a University of Missouri-Kansas City law
school professor who has consulted for mortgage firms defending
class-action predatory lending claims. The paperwork flaws will
ultimately be repaired and foreclosures will go forward because
the vast majority of borrowers fighting seizures are in default,
Randolph said.  About 2.5 million homes have been taken back since 2005,
while 6.5 million more homes may soon face repossession, Morgan
Stanley said Oct. 12.  Mountain Lions  “Max is definitely very influential,” Randolph said. “He
claims to have neat solutions to lots of problems facing
foreclosure opponents. Whether they are long-term solutions or
taking advantage of confusion in the court system is hard to
know.”  Gardner, a North Carolina native, has lived out of state
only two years as an adult, when he worked as an armed guard and
assistant vault teller for a bank in Anchorage, Alaska. He lives
on the sprawling farm in Casar, where he, Virginia and their
domesticated animals contend with wild coyotes, black bears and
mountain lions. Virginia breeds  Cavalier King Charles spaniels ,
and they have seven Great Pyrenees, two bloodhounds, a fox
hound, two donkeys and five horses.  Gardner received his undergraduate degree from the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and graduated with
high honors from its law school in 1974, before opening his
practice three years later in his grandfather’s 19th-century
home in downtown Shelby, which is 20 miles south of the farm. He
switched from general practitioner to fulltime bankruptcy
attorney in 1986.  Sherlock Holmes Costume  Gardner, who is pictured as a pipe-smoking Sherlock
Holmes on a poster plastered on a wall at the boot camp, said he
discovered that loan servicers were employing document-execution
teams to sign affidavits and other paperwork needed in cases
against homeowners after reading internal newsletters produced
by a subsidiary of Fidelity National Information Services Inc.  Fidelity National spun off its Lender Processing Services
division into a separate public company in July 2008. The
Jacksonville, Florida-based company, the biggest U.S. mortgage-
and-foreclosure outsourcing firm, was subpoenaed Oct. 13 by
Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum , who says the company
produced numerous documents in foreclosure cases that appear to
be fabricated.  Mass Production  The September 2006 issue of the newsletter removed any
doubt for Gardner that signatures were being penned with
factory-like efficiency that “would either make Henry Ford
proud or scare the hell out of him,” he said.  The 18-member “Document Execution team is set up like a
production line, ensuring that each document request is resolved
within 24 hours,” the newsletter reads. “On average, the team
will execute 1,000 documents per day.”  Michelle Kersch , a spokeswoman for the firm, said the
company decided the affidavit-execution services were “not an
appropriate use of resources,” and ended them in September
2008. Lender Processing Services still “signs a limited number
of documents for clients,” including assignments of mortgage,
she said.  Gardner shows boot campers signatures on mortgage documents
by bank vice presidents or assistant secretaries, and
photographs from newsletters showing that they actually worked
for Lender Processing Services.  66 Tips  The materials supplied to students on thumb-size data-
storage units include “Max Gardner’s Top Road Signs of Bogus
Mortgage Documents,” a list that has been updated and expanded
since it first appeared in the boot-camp materials in January
2006, he said. The last of the 66 tips for spotting
irregularities is if the document is signed by any of 295
people, who he lists by name.  The roster includes Jeffrey Stephan, a GMAC Mortgage
employee whose depositions in December 2009 and June 2010
brought the issue of robo-signers to the public’s attention. The
latest batch of boot campers included Thomas Cox, a Maine
attorney, one of two lawyers who deposed Stephan.  “What the grand scheme is here is not what I’m teaching
because honestly I don’t know,” Gardner said. “What I want
them to understand is what happened and how it happened and how
they can identify the improper unlawful documents and what they
can do with them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Prashant Gopal  in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  