-- Fortune Brands Said to Plan Meeting With Ackman
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-10-28T12:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/fortune-brands-is-said-to-plan-meeting-with-shareholder-ackman.html
Fortune Brands Inc. , the maker of
Jim Beam bourbon and Titleist golf balls, plans to meet with
 William Ackman  after the activist investor bought 11 percent of
the company, said four people with knowledge of the matter.  The meeting to discuss Ackman’s proposals is scheduled for
next week, and both sides recently hired advisers, said the
people, who declined to be named because the talks are private.
Credit Suisse Group AG and investment bank Centerview Partners
are advising Fortune Brands and its  board , the people said.
Ackman has retained investment bank Moelis & Co., they said.  Ackman’s New York-based Pershing Square Capital Management
LP disclosed  the stake  Oct. 8 and said the stock is an
undervalued, attractive investment. Ackman didn’t reveal what he
will propose to the management of Deerfield, Illinois-based
Fortune Brands, which has a market value of about $8.3 billion
and owns  products  ranging from liquor to padlocks to golf clubs.  Clarkson Hine , a spokesman for Fortune Brands, declined to
comment. Ackman didn’t respond to messages seeking comment.  Ackman has emerged as one of the hedge-fund industry’s most
prominent activist managers, often prodding for changes such as
asset sales at companies with underperforming shares. Ackman
buys stock in companies he deems undervalued and then urges
changes he says will boost shareholder returns. He pushed for
board changes at  Target Corp.  and lobbied restaurant chain
Wendy’s International Inc. to sell land.  Previous Offers  Fortune Brands has had offers for its  assets  in the past,
two of the people said. The company has been approached by
private-equity funds interested in acquiring Fortune Brands’
home and security division, its largest business, the people
said. That unit includes Master Lock padlocks and Moen faucets.  Rival drink companies have considered an acquisition of
Fortune Brands’ spirits and wine group, its second-largest
business, the people said. That group owns Maker’s Mark,
Canadian Club and Jim Beam.  Those efforts or plans often got hung up by concerns about
the tax implications and tax bills of any deal, the people said.  Fortune Brands’ smallest division is focused on golf and
includes the Titleist and FootJoy brands. The company said today
that third-quarter profit fell 17 percent. Sales were little
changed at $1.72 billion.  The shares dropped 67 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $54.53
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Fortune
Brands had climbed 26 percent this year before today, compared
with a 6 percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Fortune Brands began in 1864 as a tobacco company owned by
the Duke family, according to Hoover’s Inc. It expanded into
home products in the 1980s and added seven liquor brands from
Seagram in 1991. It has owned the Jim Beam Distillery since the
1960s and exited the tobacco business in the 1990s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 