-- Fortescue Metals Sells $2.04 Billion of High-Yield Bonds in Record Sale
-- B y   L i s a   P h a m   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-10-27T01:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/fortescue-metals-sells-2-04-billion-of-high-yield-bonds-in-a-record-sale.html
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. ,
Australia’s third-largest producer of iron ore, sold $2.04
billion of five-year notes in the biggest sale of junk-
rated U.S. dollar bonds by an Australian company.  The 7 percent notes due in November 2015 yield 575 basis
points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, Bloomberg
data show. Southern Cross Equities Ltd. analysts said last week
the bonds may be priced to yield about 8 percent.  “The sale shows strong demand among developed market
investors for access to emerging-market drivers and the
resources boom,”  Mark Reade , a credit strategist at Citigroup
Inc. in Sydney, said by phone today. “Fortescue has a track
record of successful operations. They’ve demonstrated to U.S.
dollar bondholders that the project is feasible.”  Fortescue’s profit rose 14 percent in the year ended June
30 after boosting production and increasing shipments. The
Perth-based company, which is seeking to develop its Solomon
mine in Western Australia state, may need to raise as much as
$10 billion in debt by 2017 to fund “aggressive” expansion
plans, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analysts said last
month.  Fortescue’s bond issue is the biggest U.S. dollar sale of
junk debt by an Australian company on record, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Junk, also known as speculative-grade or
high-yield debt, is rated Ba1 and below by Moody’s Investors
Service or BB+ and lower by Standard & Poor’s.  Sale Proceeds  Moody’s assigned the notes a provisional grade of B1 and
Standard & Poor’s ranked them B, one step lower.  The iron ore miner sold $1.65 billion of notes in the U.S.
currency in August 2006, which carried coupons as high as 10.625
percent, the data show. The company also sold 315 million euros
($436 million) of  notes  at that time.  Proceeds of the latest bond sale will be used to repay bank
loans, the company said in a statement to the Australian stock
exchange today. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland
managed the sale, according to the statement.  “The sale gives Fortescue funding certainty with less
covenant restrictions than their previous bonds,” Citigroup’s
Reade said, referring to the lending agreements attached to the
bonds.  The refinancing will give Fortescue freedom to implement an
expansion plan for its Solomon and Western Hub projects in
Western Australia, Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Forrest  said
in a regulatory filing on Oct. 11.  A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  