-- Fox Ratings Reign Endangered by 17% Drop in Audience
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2010-10-27T20:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/fox-ratings-reign-endangered-with-simpsons-house-declines.html
News Corp. ’s Fox network has lost
almost 17 percent of its young-adult viewers five weeks into the
television season, a drop that threatens to dethrone the ratings
leader after six years.  The decline has hit some of Fox’s top shows --“House” is
off 34 percent and “The Simpsons” 12 percent -- leaving Fox in
third place in the 18-to-49-year-old audience that advertisers
target, according to Nielsen Co. data supplied by the network.  Fox led at this point last year, as Major League Baseball
playoffs and shows like “House” helped build a first-half
cushion over  CBS Corp.  That eased the pressure on “American
Idol,” TV’s most-watched program, to carry Fox to victory in
the second half. The talent show, which lost 9 percent of its
18-to-49 audience last season, returns in January with new faces
and without  Simon Cowell , changes that may test viewer loyalty.  “I would imagine that there is a lot of concern over at
Fox right now,” said  Andrew Donchin , director of national
broadcast television for Carat USA, a New York-based advertising
company whose clients include Revlon Inc. and Pfizer Inc. “I’m
sure they’re scrambling to figure out how to fix this.”  Fox’s decline this year is underscored by shrinking
audiences for the medical show “House” and the long-running
“The Simpsons.” Newer animated shows “Family Guy” and “The
Cleveland Show” are down 15 percent and 31 percent
respectively, according to Nielsen data.  Fox also pulled its new Monday night drama “Lone Star”
after two episodes. Two new comedies, “Raising Hope” and
“Running Wilde,” rank 48th and 64th among key viewers,
according to Nielsen data.  Cablevision Dispute  The network’s retransmission dispute with  Cablevision
Systems Corp.  is contributing to the losses. Fox cut off the
pay-TV operator’s 3 million New York-area subscribers on Oct.
16. Nationally, Fox averages about 2.6 percent of the total
viewers, according to Nielsen data this season.  Overall in prime time, CBS is on top year-to-date,
averaging 4.4 million viewers ages 18 to 49, up almost 1 percent
from a year earlier, Nielsen data show. General Electric Co.’s
NBC is second with 3.75 million, a 3.9 percent increase, while
Fox is third, down to 3.73 million from 4.47 million.  Walt
Disney Co. ’s ABC is last, averaging 3.65 million viewers, a 7.6
percent decline.  Fox’s ratings were boosted last year by a special two-hour
episode of “House”  and American League baseball playoffs that
featured the New York Yankees and Los Angeles Angels,  Preston Beckman , executive vice president of Fox Entertainment Group,
said in an interview. This year, Fox broadcast the National
League series featuring teams from smaller TV markets, the San
Francisco Giants and the Philadelphia Phillies, he said.  Tough Comparisons  The network’s broadcast of baseball’s World Series this
year features the Giants and the Texas Rangers, compared with
last year’s contest between the New York Yankees and
Philadelphia Phillies.  “We’re being punished for a great fourth quarter last
year,” Beckman said. There’s still a good chance that Fox will
be the top network at the end of the season because of “Idol”
and the Super Bowl in February, he said.  “This is a pretty large hill for ‘American Idol’ to climb
this time around,” said  Brad Adgate , director of research for
New York-based Horizon Media, a media buying company. The show
has added two new judges, singers  Steven Tyler  and  Jennifer Lopez , after losing the acerbic Cowell.  ‘Glee’  A bright spot in Fox’s ratings has been continued growth
for the audience of the musical comedy “Glee.” The show, now
in its second year, is rated fourth among 18-to-49-year-olds
with a 39 percent increase in viewers, according to the network.  To further showcase the program, Fox plans to air an
episode after its Super Bowl telecast, Beckman said.  News Corp., based in New York and controlled by  Rupert Murdoch , gained 1 cent to $14.32 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The Class A shares have added 4.6
percent this year.  Fox’s ratings decline may force News Corp. to offer
advertisers “make goods,” free or discounted ads that the
networks hand out when ratings fall short of projections, later
this year, said  Doug Creutz , a San Francisco-based analyst with
Cowen & Co. who has an “underperform” rating on News Corp.  “They’re probably having to make some concessions for
‘House,’” Creutz said. “Maybe others, too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  