-- France Asks Peugeot, Renault to Drop U.S. Supplier Moles in Labor Fight
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-10-27T14:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/france-asks-peugeot-renault-to-drop-u-s-supplier-molex-in-labor-dispute.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen  called on  Molex
Inc . to resume severance payments to fired French employees and
 Renault SA  vowed to review its ties with the U.S. supplier after
France’s government demanded a boycott over a labor dispute.  France has asked the two carmakers to “cease all
business” with  Molex  after the component maker stopped funding
agreed payments to 283 workers who lost their jobs when it
closed a plant in the country last year, Industry Minister
 Christian Estrosi  said today. Molex called his intervention
“shocking.”  Molex makes electrical parts for vehicle-cabling
specialists, which in turn supply carmakers including Paris-
based Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest auto manufacturer after
 Volkswagen AG , and smaller domestic rival Renault. The Lisle,
Illinois-based company halted the payments this month after 188
of the closed French plant’s workers asked a labor tribunal to
award them more money.  “We attach the utmost importance to Molex keeping its
word,”  Hugues Dufour , a spokesman at Peugeot, said in a phone
interview. The carmaker “is very attentive to its partners’
compliance with French law, including second-tier suppliers.
Molex is not the only supplier of cabling for our vehicles.”  Molex fell as much as 8.8 percent, and traded at $20.72,
down 8.1 percent, at 10:02 a.m. in New York, making it the
biggest decliner on the benchmark S&P 500 Index.  Dufour and  Caroline De Gezelle , a spokeswoman at Boulogne-
Billancourt-based Renault, both declined to comment on the value
of Molex parts purchased annually from the French carmakers’
front-line suppliers.  Supplier Relations  “Renault has taken note of the minister’s comments,” De
Gezelle said. “We’re going to take a closer look at our
supplier relationships.”  Estrosi’s intervention came a day after Molex posted fiscal
first-quarter  net income  of $75.1 million, compared with a $15.1
million loss a year earlier, and raised its dividend 15 percent
to 17.5 cents per share.  The minister called Molex’s decision to end the payments
“unacceptable and scandalous,” and said the government will
force the U.S. company to “explain itself before the French
courts,” Agence France-Presse reported today from a briefing
after a cabinet meeting.  “That the French government would interfere in this
fashion is surprising and frankly quite shocking,” Molex Vice
President  Ana Rodriguez  said in a phone interview. “Governments
don’t usually boycott businesses and interfere in international
business relationships, it’s just not done in the western
world.”  Molex had paid out about 50 million euros ($69 million), or
90 percent of its liabilities under the 2009 settlement, when it
discovered that former employees were disputing the plan’s
validity in court, Rodriguez said.  “We felt we had no choice but to stop funding the social
plan until some reasonable party could come in and mediate the
situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  