-- French Workers Strike in Unions' Stand on Pension Bill
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-10-28T17:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/france-braces-for-strikes-in-unions-final-stand-on-pension-bill.html
Train services were disrupted and
flights canceled after French unions called for a fifth, and
some said final, strike today against President  Nicolas Sarkozy’s  pension bill, passed by parliament.  Unions are divided about the course of action after the
lower house of parliament yesterday cast its final vote,
approving the bill that will raise the minimum retirement age to
62 from 60. The bill must now be vetted by the Constitutional
Court before it is promulgated into law by Sarkozy.  “Since there are no signs that Sarkozy will back down, the
challenge for the unions is to find a way to wind down the
protests without losing face,” said  Guy Groux , an expert on
labor movements at Cevipof, a Paris-based political research
institute. “It’s clear the protests will peter out.”  Still, unions have said they will continue to push for
concessions until the retirement plan is signed into law.
“Workers don’t want to work longer and they don’t want to be
the ones paying the bills for the financial crisis,”  Jean- Claude Mailly , head of the Force Ouvriere union, said on France
Info radio today.  About 2 million people marched in more than 200 protests
across the country, the CGT union said, while police estimated
the number at 560,000. The previous strike day Oct. 19 drew 3.5
million people according to unions and about 1.1 million
according to police. Independent media counts at previous
protests agreed more with the police numbers.  Unions leaders had expected fewer people today because of
school holidays and because the law had passed parliament.  In Line  About 30 percent of flights from Paris’s Charles de Gaulle
airport were canceled today. Train services were disrupted,
although less than in previous strikes. Protests at oil
terminals left refineries without the necessary crude to process
into fuels such as gasoline and diesel.  Workers at power plants cut electricity production and this
morning turned the lights out at the French finance ministry,
the Confederation Generale du Travail labor union said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Unions have called for another day of protests on Nov. 6.  The bill, which also raises the full-pension age by two
years to 67, would bring France closer to Germany and the U.S.,
which are moving toward 67 as the full-retirement age, according
to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  While Sarkozy wants to enact the law on Nov. 15, France’s
Constitutional Court may need more time to review it.  ‘Empty Cash Box’  The government says the changes are needed to help cope
with an aging population and balance the pension budget by 2018.  The overhaul is part of the broader government struggle to
cut the budget deficit. This year the gap will stand at 7.7
percent of gross domestic product and Sarkozy’s ministers plan
to narrow it to 6 percent, or 92 billion euros, next year.  “Unlike in earlier stand-offs, the government didn’t back
down this time because it couldn’t,’ said  Bernard Vivier ,
director of the Superior Institute of Work, which trains labor
negotiators. ‘‘The cash box is empty.”  The  risk premium  on French bonds has fallen as the protests
ease. Investors demanded about 37 basis points more to buy 10-
year French bonds than comparable German securities, from 41
points on Oct. 12. The spreads were at 30 points on Sept. 6.  Seven out of 11 refineries are operational in France, even
though some are still idled by lack of crude,  Jean-Louis Schilansky , director of the UFIP, a refineries industry group,
said today on France Info radio. Earlier this week, all active
refineries were on strike or idle. Over the past week, workers
at five refineries have voted to end strikes.  Planes, Trains  Schilansky said that 20 percent of French gas stations are
still dry, mostly in the west of the country and in the Paris
region. Close to half were out of products earlier this week.
There are no blockades at any fuel depots, he said.  At the  Port of Marseille  on the southern Mediterranean
coast, 38 crude oil carriers and 29 oil-product tankers are
stranded because of a more-than-month-long strike, port agents
Inchcape Shipping Services said.  Electricite de France SA imported 6,800 megawatts of power
to help cover an 8,000 megawatt output drop from French plants
since last night because of strike action, the CGT said.  France’s Civil Aviation Authority asked airlines to reduce
flights to and from Orly airport in Paris by 50 percent today,
and those at other airports in mainland France by 30 percent.
 Air France-KLM  guaranteed all its long-haul flights, while
canceling some domestic and European flights.  Costs  The national railroad said four out of five high-speed
trains ran, as did about three out of five regional and Paris
commuter trains. That’s double the service on previous strike
days. Eurostar services to London ran normally.  The  Paris metro  said it ran near normally today, with the
RER suburban line that serves the capital’s two airports running
at half schedule.  The protests and strikes cost the country between 200
million euros and 400 million euros ($280 million to $560
million) a day, Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said Oct. 25.  Workers held their first strike on Sept. 7 when the
National Assembly started debating the bill. Since then strikes
and demonstrations have disrupted airlines and trains and
brought about a million protesters to the streets during
demonstrations. Blockades at oil depots left almost half the
country’s service stations with shortages of some fuel products.  The main protest in Paris drew 160,000 people according to
the CGT and 31,000 according to the police, in both cases about
half the number Oct. 19.  Strike Fatigue  “There’s a certain fatigue, there are the school
holidays,” Force Ouvriere’s Mailly said.  Still, even before the final vote yesterday, the protests
had begun to wind down as workers elected to go back to work.  “No matter how you look at it, it is a defeat for the
unions,” said Groux, the labor expert. “They held numerous
strikes, mobilized a lot of people, and can’t really point to
any achievements.”  Francois Chereque , head of the CFDT, France’s second-
largest union, has said he won’t call for protests after the
pension bill becomes law.  Instead, he’s agreed with the head of the country’s
business lobby to open negotiations on creating more job
opportunities for youths entering the labor market and for
seniors at the end of their careers.  Groux said other union leaders will try to find similar
exits. The CGT union said it will work more at the company level
to force deals allowing for early retirement for people in
hardship jobs.  Unpopular Sarkozy  Sarkozy’s two-month battle with unions and workers has hurt
his popularity, which fell to a record low this month, with less
than a third of those questioned approving his performance, an
 Ifop  survey for the Journal du Dimanche showed Oct. 24. His
approval rating fell to 29 percent, against 32 percent in
September, the lowest since his May 2007 election.  “The loss of confidence in this government runs very
deep,” the CFDT’s Chereque said on LCI television this morning.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 