-- French Power Plant Workers to Cut Output; Prices Jump
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 2010-10-27T16:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/french-power-workers-to-resume-strike-prices-jump-on-expected-output-cut.html
French power-plant  workers are set
to go on strike this evening in protest against planned pension
reforms, cutting output at all types of plants, a representative
for the CGT union said.  The strike is scheduled to start at about 10 p.m. tonight
and last until tomorrow evening. French power prices for next
day delivery rose as much as 8.6 percent to 80.19 euros
($110.79) a megawatt hour on the Epex Spot SE Exchange in Paris.  “There is no output cut at the moment, but with the strike
starting tonight, we should see the cuts starting around 10
p.m.,” Marie-Claire Cailletaud, a CGT union representative for  power plants , said today in a phone interview from Montreuil,
near Paris. She declined to estimate how much power production
may fall.  Labor unions are preparing for a new day of strikes and
protests tomorrow as  France ’s Parliament is set today for the
final vote on President Nicolas Sarkozy’s pension bill to raise
the minimum  retirement age  to 62 from 60.  “There is a nationwide call for strike tomorrow,” said an
Electricite de France SA spokeswoman, who declined to be named
because of company policy. “I cannot say right now what the
impact on output will be for tonight or tomorrow.”  The utility, the world’s biggest operator of nuclear
reactors, said service to customers would be maintained.  France, traditionally an exporter of power, has this month
been forced to rely on imports to meet demand because of strikes
and as EDF keeps reactors halted for maintenance.  Peak Imports  Imports were scheduled to peak between 8 a.m. and 9 a.m.
Paris time, reaching as high as 6,438 megawatts, about equal to
the output of five nuclear reactors, according to data on the
website of grid operator Reseau de Transport d’Electricite.
France will import power from  Germany , the U.K. and  Belgium 
during all hours today, the company said.  France is  Europe ’s second-biggest power market, after
Germany. EDF will have 14 of its 58 reactors offline tomorrow,
according to RTE’s website.  In Germany, next-year power prices slid 0.4 percent to
47.95 euros a megawatt hour via brokers in the over-the-counter
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net  