-- Roomy Khan Is Liable for More Than $1.8 Million in SEC Lawsuit, Judge Says
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-29T02:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/galleon-s-rajaratnam-wiretap-exclusion-bid-should-be-denied-u-s-says.html
Roomy Khan , a cooperating witness
and defendant in the government’s insider trading case against
Galleon Group co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , settled a related civil
lawsuit brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Khan, a former  Intel Corp.  executive, will pay $1.9 million
including interest to settle the case, according to an agreement
filed yesterday in federal court in Manhattan. Khan pleaded
guilty in the criminal insider trading case and is cooperating
with the government in a bid for leniency.  Rajaratnam is the central figure in two overlapping
prosecutions in which 21 people have been charged, with 12 of
them pleading guilty. He was arrested in October 2009, accused
of earning millions of dollars from stock trades made with
inside information from corporate officials and hedge fund
executives.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers are seeking to show that U.S. agents
lied or misled a federal judge and then illegally recorded
Rajaratnam’s communications. The recordings are the centerpiece
of the biggest insider-trading prosecution in history.  Prosecutors argue their best evidence comes from Khan,
which they used to obtain her cooperation in the criminal case.  Khan’s lawyer, David Wikstrom, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment after regular business hours.  John Nester ,
an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  The civil case is SEC v. Galleon, 09-cv-08811, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 