-- Gazprom Beats Government as Company Spreads Hit 2-Month Low: Russia Credit
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-10-28T11:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/gazprom-profit-sends-spreads-to-two-month-low-russia-credit.html
Investors in Russian corporate bonds
are demanding the lowest yields relative to government debt in
two months as earnings recover faster than state finances.  Corporate notes  climbed 13.5 percent from this year’s low
on May 25, beating the 11.6 percent gain in Russian  sovereign
bonds , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. Dollar bonds
from companies are yielding 98 basis points more on average than
government debt, the  narrowest spread  since August, compared
with 157 points in May, the indexes show.  Borrowing costs are tumbling after companies from OAO
Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, to OAO GMK Norilsk
Nickel, the country’s largest mining company, reported the
highest earnings for at least two years. At same time the
government is boosting domestic debt sales after posting its
first budget deficit in a decade in 2009 and predicting 4
percent economic growth this year, trailing forecasts of 7.5
percent in Brazil and 10.5 percent in China.  “Even as 2010 turns out to be a very good year for Russian
sovereign Eurobonds, corporate bonds are still a better buy,
because of their potential to grow,”  Olga Efremova , a fixed-
income analyst at OAO Nomos Bank, said by telephone from Moscow.  New Sales  Russian companies have taken advantage of lower yields to
issue the most domestic bonds on record at 670 billion rubles
($21.9 billion) year to date, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
This compares to 586 billion rubles of bonds sold in the same
period last year, the data show.  The country’s borrowers, including  VTB Group , Russia’s
second-biggest lender, and OAO Sovcomflot, its biggest shipping
company, sold $3.2 billion of international bonds this month as
average corporate bond yields fell to 5.26 percent on Oct. 13,
the lowest since records began in 2002, according to JPMorgan’s
index and data compiled by Bloomberg. The average yield  rose  to
5.48 percent on Oct. 27, compared with 7.35 percent on May 25.  OAO Lukoil, Russia’s largest non-state oil producer, is
meeting investors this week for an offering of 10-year dollar
bonds that may yield in the low 6 percent area, according to two
people with knowledge of the sale. ZAO Alrosa, the diamond
mining monopoly, is marketing a sale of 10-year benchmark dollar
bonds that may yield 7.5 percent to 7.75 percent, according to
two people with knowledge of the deal.  “Russia’s corporate Eurobonds are undervalued, there is a
premium there,”  Dmitriy Gritskevich , fixed-income analyst at
OAO Promsvyazbank in Moscow, said in a telephone interview.
“There are lots of new placements and investors are looking
mostly at new bond sales.”  The yield on Gazprom’s dollar bonds due July 2014 fell to
4.19 percent from this year’s high of 7.1 percent on May 25,
near its low of 4.03 percent on Oct. 15. The yield on Gazprom’s
13.75 percent ruble notes due June 2014 is 7.01 percent today,
compared with 8.67 percent on May 25.  ‘So Sad’  Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural-gas producer, tripled
first-quarter profit to a record after cold weather boosted
demand at home and in Europe and the ruble appreciated against
the dollar, according to a statement on Sept. 2. The company is
based in Moscow.  Investors pulled a net $200 billion from Russia since the
country’s five-day war with Georgia in August 2008 and the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. a month later,
 according to central bank data , fuelling the country’s worst
market rout since the 1998 domestic debt default.  Russian companies turned to the government for bailout
funds in late 2008 and early 2009 after the financial crisis cut
access to refinancing globally for all but the safest credits.
The volume of international debt sales fell to the lowest level
since 2004 last year as corporations struggled to raise new
funds, according to Bloomberg data.  Healthier Finances  Russian company finances look healthier than the state’s,
said Efremova. The Finance Ministry expects the budget deficit
to be 5.3 percent of gross domestic product this year. Russia’s
shortfall was 5.9 percent last year, the first deficit in a
decade, after the economy posted its biggest contraction on
record, declining 7.9 percent in 2009.  “While the country’s largest companies have used the
crisis time to streamline their finances, improve operating
performances and get rid of none-core businesses, the government
runs budget a deficit, carries colossal social spending and
depends on the oil price,” said Efremova. “When it comes to
the budget, everything looks so sad.”  The ruble depreciated 0.2 percent to 30.7350 per dollar by
2:23 p.m. in Moscow trading, heading for its weakest closing
level in a week. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest rate differentials and allow companies to hedge against
currency movements, show the ruble at 30.9618 per dollar in
three months.  Yields Rise  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 was little
changed today at 4.481 percent. The price of country’s ruble
notes due August 2016 were little changed, leaving the yield at
7.23 percent.  Russian sovereign  ruble bonds  returned 9.1 percent this
year compared with 18 percent from Brazilian  local-currency
bonds , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps increased 1.5 basis points
to 144.5 today, according to data provider CMA. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade, cost 11.5
basis points more than similar contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 2 basis points to 202,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes. The difference
compares with 128 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 170 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 35 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  “The shift from sovereign to corporate Russian bonds is a
logical step as global financial markets remain awash in excess
liquidity and investor risk appetite increases,” said  Scott Licamele , a partner at broker LoginFX in Moscow. “Corporate
bonds in Russia and other key emerging markets should continue
to perform well.”  The Russian government is seeking to balance the state
budget by 2015 based on expected average oil price at $70 a
barrel. Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, needs the
price of oil to average at $100 per barrel to do achieve that
goal,  Erik Berglof , chief economist at the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, said on Oct. 19 in London.  Oil for December delivery was trading little changed at
$81.97 on the New York Mercantile Exchange today and was 44
percent below a record of $147.27 per barrel on July 2, 2008.  “State finances raise a lot of questions,” said Efremova
at Nomos Bank. “The current economic situation in Russia
depends on foreign factors, particularly on the price of oil,
and that has been extremely volatile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Halia Pavliva  in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 