-- Germany, Swiss to Negotiate on Taxing Offshore Bank Accounts
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-10-27T16:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/germany-swiss-to-negotiate-on-taxing-offshore-bank-accounts.html
Germany and Switzerland will
negotiate a withholding tax that raises revenue from offshore
Swiss bank accounts while keeping client identities secret.  The talks, starting early next year, will aim to resolve
the issue of stolen client data, the two countries’ finance
ministries said today. Swiss Finance Minister  Hans-Rudolf Merz 
and his German counterpart,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , signed a tax
agreement in Bern, allowing investigators to request assistance
in tracking down undeclared money deposited by German nationals.  “Switzerland is eventually managing to escape the ‘bad
guy’ image as a safe haven for tax dodgers,” said  Stefan Bach ,
a tax analyst at the DIW economic institute in Berlin. “The
country is yielding to international pressure as they weren’t
able to continue the previous policy of harboring tax evaders.”  The withholding tax proposed by Swiss banks on the
interest, dividends, capital gains and investment income earned
by foreign citizens with offshore accounts could raise about 1.6
billion euros ($2.2 billion) a year for the German government,
according to Bach. The deal with Germany follows a similar
accord that Switzerland signed with the U.K. two days ago.  Schaeuble declined to comment on how much revenue the tax
could raise for Germany.  “This deal helps to satisfy the needs of Switzerland as a
financial center and the needs of the German fiscal
authorities,” Merz told reporters in Bern. “What the
automotive industry is to Germany, the banking sector is to
Switzerland.”  Biggest Customers  Germans are the biggest cross-border customers of Swiss
banks with about 280.6 billion Swiss francs ($284 billion) of
assets, of which an estimated 69 percent is undeclared, Geneva-
based broker Helvea SA estimated last year. Only 16 percent of
the 863 billion francs held in Swiss banks by European nationals
were declared, according to Helvea.  The Swiss wealth-management industry was shaken on March
13, 2009, when the government agreed to work with countries
investigating tax evasion to avoid being blacklisted as a tax
haven by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. Switzerland has initialed or signed almost 30 tax
treaties over the past 19 months to implement international
standards and help track down tax evaders.  The accord may help Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government
in its efforts to shrink the budget deficit as well as tackle a
decades-old dispute on how to deal with German tax dodgers
hiding funds in Swiss accounts. The two sides will also discuss
the Swiss request of getting better access for the country’s
financial institutions to the German market.  Legacy Assets  Germany and Switzerland have been discussing ways to tax
legacy assets since March. German officials over the past two
weeks have dismissed as speculation a report in the Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung that a tax agreement could yield 30 billion
euros in tax revenue next year.  “I don’t expect German clients to withdraw money from
Switzerland,” said  Peter V. Kunz , head of the business law
department at the University of Bern. “This will come as a
relief as the parties have found a solution for the legacy
assets that preserves bank secrecy.”  Relations between both countries deteriorated last year
when former Finance Minister  Peer Steinbrueck  said Switzerland
encouraged Germans to evade taxes. At the time Blick, a Swiss
mass-market newspaper, called Steinbrueck one of the “most
hated people in Switzerland.”  Tensions were strained again this year as German
prosecutors began to buy CDs containing stolen data as a way to
pursue tax evaders.  “I think it won’t be necessary any more to buy stolen data
as we will have other means to prevent abuse of the different
tax systems,” German Finance Minister Schaeuble said today in
Bern. “It’s the intention of both Germany and Switzerland that
depositing undeclared funds is a thing of the past.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Klaus Wille  in Zurich at   kwille@bloomberg.net 
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net 
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  