-- Portuguese Bonds Lead Peripheral Notes Lower After Budget Talks Collapse
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-10-27T12:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/german-government-bonds-decline-amid-bets-consumer-prices-increased.html
Portugal led bonds of so-called
peripheral European nations lower after the government and the
main opposition party broke off budget talks, reigniting
concerns countries may struggle to cut their deficits.  Greek bonds fell by the most in more than four months as
Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said a tax-revenue
shortfall is hampering government efforts to reduce it national
debt. German government bonds slid before a report economists
say will show  consumer prices  rose in October, making it more
likely the European Central Bank will keep removing stimulus
measures even as smaller economies in the region lag behind.  “This is still a bumpy road,” said  David Schnautz , a
fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. “This kind
of news is highly market-moving and any relief we see in terms
of spreads tightening is vulnerable.”  The yield on Portugal’s 10-year bond increased 23 basis
points, the most since Sept. 20, based on closing prices, to
5.92 percent as of 12:50 p.m. in London. That left the extra
yield, or spread, investors demand to hold the bonds instead of
similar German bunds at 325 basis points.  Greece’s 10-year yield rose 62 basis points, the most since
June 15. The spread with bunds widened to 756 basis points, the
most since Oct. 7. Ireland’s 10-year bonds yielded 402 basis
points more than similar bunds, up from 393 yesterday.  Portugal’s government and the Social Democrats broke off
talks on the 2011 budget proposal, Eduardo Catroga, the
opposition party’s negotiator, said in Lisbon today in comments
broadcast by SIC Noticias television station. Portugal sold 611
million euros ($843 million) of bonds due in 2014 today,
attracting bids equivalent to 2.8 times the amount offered, down
from 3.5 times in September.  U.K., U.S. Bonds Fall  German bonds also fell with their U.S. and U.K. peers on
bets the Federal Reserve will announce a smaller bond-buying
program than some analysts expect at its Nov. 2-3 meeting as the
economic recovery accelerates. Data today will likely show
German inflation at 0.1 percent versus minus 0.2 percent in
September, according to the median prediction of 18 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Right now, there’s potential for disappointment for bond
investors,” said  Mohit Kumar , a fixed-income strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in London. “Quantitative-easing expectations
in the U.S. have turned. The German economy remains strong, and
the ECB has been talking about normalizing rates.”  The yield on the 10-year bund, Europe’s benchmark security,
rose seven basis points to 2.58 percent, after reaching the most
since Aug. 5. The two-year note yield increased two basis points
to 1.04 percent.  German bonds have lost 1 percent this month, compared with
a 0.5 percent decline for U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. Italian securities have gained 0.9 percent,
while Portugal’s have made 4.02 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  