-- German Inflation Rate Probably Remained Little Changed, Five States Show
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-10-27T10:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/german-inflation-rate-probably-remained-little-changed-five-states-show.html
Five German states said  inflation 
was little changed in October.  In Bavaria, inflation held at 1.4 percent, the state’s
statistics office in Munich said today. Inflation remained at 1
percent in Brandenburg, eased to 1 percent from 1.1 percent in
Hesse and slowed to 1.4 percent from 1.5 percent in Saxony.
North Rhine-Westphalia’s rate rose to 1.2 percent from 1.1
percent.  Economists predict  German inflation , calculated using a
harmonized European method, will remain at 1.3 percent in
October, according to the median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg
News  survey . That report, based on data from six states, is due
later today.  Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  expects price developments
to remain “very moderate” even after booming exports propelled
Germany’s economy to its  fastest expansion  in two decades in the
second quarter. With governments across Europe stepping up
budget-consolidation efforts to cut deficits, companies may
struggle to pass on higher costs.  “Inflation pressure in Germany is extremely low at the
moment and will remain so until the end of the year,” said
 Karsten Junius , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “The
European Central Bank has no reason to worry about an end of its
very expansionary monetary policy.”  Euro-Area Inflation  The ECB, which aims to keep  inflation  in the 16-nation euro
region just below 2 percent, on Oct. 7 left its  key interest
rate  at a record low of 1 percent. The ECB last month forecast
euro-region inflation will average about 1.6 percent this year
and around 1.7 percent in 2011.  Euro-area inflation may remain unchanged at 1.8 percent
this month, another survey of economists shows. That report is
due from the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg on
Oct. 29.  German consumer confidence will remain at the highest level
in two and a half years in November after the economic outlook
improved and unemployment declined, Nuremberg-based market
research company GfK said today. German  unemployment  fell for a
15th month in October and the country’s HDE retail association
last month raised this year’s sales growth forecast to 1.5
percent from zero.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  