-- German Inflation Holds Steady as Stronger Euro Helps Counter Energy Prices
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-10-27T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/german-inflation-holds-steady-as-stronger-euro-helps-counter-energy-prices.html
German  inflation  held steady in
October as a stronger euro helped counter higher energy prices.  The inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized European
method, stayed at 1.3 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. That was in line with the median of 21
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  of economists. In the
month, prices rose 0.1 percent.  Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  has said he expects price
developments to remain “very moderate” even after booming
exports propelled Germany’s economy to its  fastest expansion  in
two decades in the second quarter. The euro’s 16 percent
appreciation against the dollar since June 7 is helping to dull
the impact of higher prices for imports such as oil, which has
gained 14 percent in the past two months.  “We don’t have to worry about inflation in Germany,
although we will probably see stronger price increases than in
the euro region as a whole,” said Arnd Schaefer, an economist at
WestLB in Dusseldorf. “Peripheral countries are marching toward
disinflation. Therefore, the European Central Bank can afford to
take a neutral stance on the inflation-deflation topic.”  The ECB, which aims to keep  inflation  in the 16-nation euro
region just below 2 percent, on Oct. 7 left its  key interest
rate  at a record low of 1 percent. The ECB last month forecast
euro-region inflation will average about 1.6 percent this year
and around 1.7 percent in 2011.  The rate probably held at 1.8 percent this month, according
to a Bloomberg survey. That report is due from the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg on Oct. 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
 Simone Meier  in Frankfurt at  smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  