-- German, French Air Accords With Russia Face European Union Lawsuit Threat
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-10-28T10:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/german-french-air-accords-with-russia-face-european-union-lawsuit-threat.html
The European Union threatened
lawsuits against Germany, France, Austria and Finland for
allowing Russian fees on EU airlines that fly over Siberia,
spotlighting a hurdle to Russia’s bid for World Trade
Organization membership.  The European Commission said the four countries’ aviation
agreements with Russia may violate EU rules by including
provisions on Siberian overflight charges. European airlines pay
the fees to Russian carrier  OAO Aeroflot  for the right to fly
between Europe and Asia.  “Such provisions may be in breach of EU antitrust rules
and could lead to competition distortions to the disadvantage of
both EU airlines and consumers,” the commission, the 27-nation
bloc’s regulatory arm, said in a statement today in Brussels.  Russia is the only country in the world to charge for
overflight rights and the fees affect flights between Europe and
Japan, China and South Korea by airlines including  Air France-
KLM Group  and Deutsche Lufthansa AG. The policy is a relic of
the Cold War, when Russian airspace was out of bounds and Russia
excluded Siberia in return for a fee.  The EU says Russia has failed to follow through on a 2006
accord to end the fees, which U.S. carriers are spared because
they don’t fly the trans-Siberian route. The charges, which the
commission says cost European carriers about $420 million in
2008, have been among the obstacles to EU approval of Russia’s
bid to join  the WTO .  Legal Threat  Today’s legal threat involves an initial warning from the
commission to the German, French, Austrian and Finnish
governments through a “letter of formal notice.” This process
can lead to a lawsuit at the European court after a second
commission warning letter.  In addition to targeting the provisions on Siberian
overflight charges, the commission says the four aviation
agreements with Russia violate EU law by failing to apply the
general terms equally to all carriers based in the bloc. This is
required under Europe’s “open-skies” rules.  Among other things, the open-skies rules ensure that a
takeover involving two carriers based in different EU nations
doesn’t lead to the loss of traffic-route rights. Russia has
threatened to deny Austrian Airlines AG flight rights following
its takeover by  Lufthansa , according to the commission.  The commission is examining whether to start similar
infringement cases against other EU countries, said  Helen Kearns , the commission’s transport spokeswoman. She said
“several” more such cases are likely before the end of the
year while declining to speculate about the nations that would
be targeted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  