-- Cousin of Tanzanian Embassy-Bombing Suspect Spoke of Yemen Before Attacks
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-27T23:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/ghailani-s-cousin-testifies-about-travel-to-yemen-before-terror-attacks.html
A cousin of  Ahmed Ghailani , a
Tanzanian on trial in New York for the 1998 bombings of the U.S.
embassies in Africa, testified Ghailani visited his family
before the attacks and told him he was going to go to Yemen to
look for work.  Ghailani, 36, is the first Guantanamo Bay detainee to be
tried in a U.S. civilian court. He is charged with conspiring in
an al-Qaeda plot to kill U.S. nationals for the Aug. 7, 1998,
bombings of the U.S. embassies in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and
Nairobi, Kenya, which killed 224 people, including 12 U.S.
citizens.  The cousin, Ladha Hussein, a Tanzanian bus driver,
testified through a Swahili interpreter that between 1990 and
1998, Ghailani frequently visited the home Hussein shared with
his parents in Dar es Salaam. He said Ghailani came at one point
in the 1990s and told him he had “an opportunity to study
abroad.”  “He did come to tell me that he was going to study in
Pakistan,” Hussein said. “I didn’t see him after that for
awhile.” He said he believed Ghailani was away “for about
three months” and later returned to live in Dar es Salaam.  Hussein said “about a month or less” before Ghailani
visited Hussein and his parents.  ‘Livelihood’  “He said that he was going to look for livelihood in
Yemen,” Hussein testified, “to look for work.”  “I asked him, ‘You’re going to Yemen to look for a living?
I hear that life is very difficult there’” Hussein said. He
said Ghailani replied, “I’m going to try.”  Hussein said he never previously heard Ghailani mention
traveling to Yemen.  He also testified Ghailani had been educated until he was
19 years old, or completing the equivalent of high school, and
never mentioned getting “scrap work.” Two Tanzanian welders
testified Ghailani told them he needed to purchase large high-
pressured gas tanks he asked them to fill with acetylene and
oxygen because he had a job doing metal scrap work.  Prosecutors have charged Ghailani helped buy the Nissan
truck used in the Tanzania blast and that he and a co-defendant
purchased high-pressure metal tanks he and a co-defendant filled
with oxygen and acetylene to magnify the impact of the blast.  Pakistan Flight  Ghailani has pleaded not guilty to the charges. His lawyers
told the jury in opening statements that their client was
“duped” by other, more worldly friends who fled Africa after
the attacks.  The jury hearing his case has seen evidence that Ghailani
left Africa on a flight to Karachi, Pakistan, on Aug. 6, 1998,
with four other members of the al-Qaeda cell that the U.S. says
carried out the attacks.  Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Michael Farbiarz  asked
Hussein if he ever saw his cousin after the bombings.  “I never saw him again,” he replied, adding “I see him
today” and identifying Ghailani in court for the jury.  On cross-examination by Ghailani’s lawyer, Peter Quijano,
Hussein said he didn’t know if his cousin ever went to Pakistan.  Hussein also said when Ghailani returned after being saying
he was going to Pakistan, he continued to wear Western-style
clothing and didn’t adopt a style of dress common for some
devout Muslims.  Ghailani told U.S. interrogators that prior to leaving
Africa, he went home and told his family he was traveling to
Yemen to find work “in order to explain his departure,” the
U.S. said in court papers, parts of which were de-classified by
U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan , who is presiding over the
case.  CIA Detention  He went to Afghanistan and “remained an active participant
in al-Qaeda,” the U.S. has said in court papers. He later
admitted that he worked for several top al-Qaeda terrorists and
served as a cook and bodyguard for  Osama bin Laden  in
Afghanistan, the U.S. said.  Ghailani was indicted by a federal grand jury in New York
in December 1998. He was captured in Pakistan in July 2004 and
held by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency where he was
questioned and subjected to “enhanced interrogation
techniques,” the U.S. has said in court papers.  In September 2006, he was transferred to Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, where he was held by the Defense Department. In June 2009,
the U.S. transferred him to federal court in New York for trial,
after the Obama administration said it planned to close
Guantanamo and try some terrorism suspects held there in
civilian courts.  Prosecutors haven’t told the jury about what happened to
Ghailani after he left Africa, since the information was learned
from Ghailani while he was in U.S. custody.  Four of Ghailani’s alleged co-conspirators were convicted
at a 2001 civilian trial in federal court New York.  Testimony is scheduled to resume tomorrow.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 