-- Global Currency Trading Will Grow to $10 Trillion a Day by 2020, UBS Says
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-27T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/global-currency-trading-will-grow-to-10-trillion-a-day-by-2020-ubs-says.html
Foreign-exchange trading will more
than double to $10 trillion a day on average a decade from now,
driven by portfolio diversification from central banks, pension
funds, hedge funds and insurance companies, according to UBS AG.  Central banks will have a harder time influencing exchange
rates because of the market’s size, wrote  Mansoor Mohi-uddin ,
global head of currency strategy at UBS in Singapore. The Bank
for International Settlements said in September that currency
market volume rose to $4 trillion a day.  “The immense growth of currency markets is likely to draw
in investors seeking liquidity to manage large-scale
portfolios,” wrote Mohi-uddin in a research report today. “It
also means central banks wishing to influence exchange rate
levels through intervention will need to act more forcefully to
have any sustained impact.”  UBS estimated that the daily turnover in currency markets
related to hedge funds, pension funds, mutual funds, insurance
companies and central banks rose 42 percent to $1.9 trillion in
2010 from $1.3 trillion in 2007.  The bank said these investors are likely over the next 10
years to be “more active in managing their portfolios of
domestic and foreign assets as currency markets are likely to be
super-volatile.”  Currency Market Growth  Neither financial market shocks nor disruption to
international  trade  is likely to stop the expansion of the
currency market, the bank said.  International trade accounts for “a small fraction” of
total currency trading, the report said. UBS estimated that
daily trading turnover associated with goods and services
transactions was about $50 billion a day last year.  “While investors and policy makers worry about trade wars,
the direct risks to global currency market turnover from a sharp
drop in international trade flows seems limited,” wrote Mohi-
uddin. “The experience of 2007-2010 shows the growth of
foreign-exchange activity is resilient to shocks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  