-- Goldman Sachs Hire at Bank of Canada Followed Guidelines, Flaherty Says
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-27T20:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/goldman-sachs-hire-at-bank-of-canada-followed-guidelines-flaherty-says.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said the country’s central bank followed conflict of
interest guidelines when it hired an adviser from Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  Bloc Quebecois lawmaker  Daniel Paille  and  Thomas Mulcair  of
the New Democratic Party both asked about the hiring of  Timothy Hodgson  for an 18-month term. Flaherty said in response that the
bank makes its own staffing decisions and that Hodgson has
“severed” his ties to the private sector.  Governor  Mark Carney  and Hodgson worked together at Goldman
Sachs in New York from 1998-2000, and Hodgson was hired by the
central bank this year to work on developing rules for trading
repurchase agreements and over-the-counter derivatives, and
regulations to ensure  banks  have enough capital. Carney told
opposition lawmakers during committee testimony yesterday
employees are bound by a code of conduct and a conflict of
interest policy.  “It’s a question of the revolving door back to the private
sector,” Mulcair said today while asking questions of Flaherty,
adding that Hodgson’s contract has no “cooling-off period.”  “Any appearance of conflict of interest in our democratic
institutions undermines the public’s trust,” Mulcair said.  Flaherty replied by saying “the person in question has
severed his ties with the private sector” and “the Bank of
Canada makes its own hiring decisions.”  Bank of Canada spokesman  Jeremy Harrison  said that Hodgson
“has resigned from Goldman Sachs, severed all ties, divested
himself of all his holdings of Goldman Sachs stock and placed
his other investments in a blind trust.”  “The bank’s conflict-of-interest policy will appropriately
limit his activities upon his departure,” Harrison said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  