-- Google Privacy Probe Dropped by FTC After Assurances
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-10-27T17:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/google-privacy-probe-is-dropped-by-ftc-after-assurances-on-data-collection.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
ended its investigation of  Google Inc. ’s collection of data over
unsecured wireless networks after the company said it will
improve privacy safeguards in its Street View mapping project.  The agency said the Mountain View, California-based company
also agreed not to use the data, according to a letter today
from  David Vladeck , director of the FTC’s Bureau of Consumer
Protection, to  Albert Gidari , a lawyer for Google.  The company’s pledge not to include the information in any
Google products “is critical to mitigate the potential harm to
consumers from the collection of payload data,” Vladeck wrote.
“Because of these commitments, we are ending our inquiry into
this matter.”  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
uses cars to photograph streets and houses to update Street
View. The company admitted the cars also collected data from Wi-
Fi networks, prompting an outcry by privacy advocates and
lawmakers and spurring private lawsuits, European investigations
and the FTC probe.  “We welcome the news that the FTC has closed its inquiry
and recognized the steps we have taken to improve our internal
controls,” said  Christine Chen , a Google spokeswoman, in an e-
mailed statement. “We did not want and have never used the
payload data.”  Apology by Google  In a separate e-mailed message today, Google apologized for
collecting the data. Prosecutors in Rome opened an investigation
into alleged violations of privacy law, Ansa newswire reported
today. In May, German regulators began their own probe.  With this decision and its prior approvals of Google’s
acquisitions of AdMob Inc. and DoubleClick Inc., the FTC isn’t
safeguarding privacy, said  Jeffrey Chester , executive director
of the Center for Digital Democracy, a Washington-based
nonprofit group.  “The FTC keeps giving Google a pass to collect consumer
data,” he said in an e-mail. “The agency should have done more
in this matter.”  Democratic Representatives  Henry Waxman  of California and
 Edward Markey  of Massachusetts and Republican  Joe Barton  of
Texas have pressed Google to provide more details about the
company’s collection of data from unsecured wireless networks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  