-- Finance Minister Gordhan Wants `Looser' South African Monetary Policy
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-10-27T16:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/gordhan-says-south-african-government-aiming-for-looser-monetary-policy.html
South Africa’s government is aiming
for “looser monetary policy and tighter fiscal policy” to help
the economy expand, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  Reining in state spending and narrowing the budget deficit
over the next three years will “give more space to the Reserve
Bank,” Gordhan said in an interview on Johannesburg-based SAFM
radio today.  Gordhan outlined plans in his mid-term budget speech today
to bring the budget deficit down to 3.2 percent of gross
domestic product in three year’s time from an estimated 5.3
percent this year. Spending constraints and a 35 percent rally
in the rand against the dollar since the start of last year will
help keep  inflation  inside the central bank’s 3 percent to 6
percent target range.  “Over the next two years, we will constrain what we are
going to spend,” Gordhan said.  The Reserve Bank has cut its benchmark interest  rate  eight
times to 6 percent since December 2008 to help spur growth in
Africa’s biggest economy. Inflation slowed to an annual 3.2
percent in September, the statistics office said today.  “Business would welcome lower interest rates,” Gordhan
said in an interview in Cape Town. “It would be advantageous
for encouraging investment, it would be advantageous for the
exchange rate. If our situation allows for that and the Reserve
Bank, in its wisdom, thinks that is an important thing to do,
hopefully we will do it.”  Inflation is expected to average 4.4 percent this year, 4.7
percent in 2011 and 5 percent in 2012, the  National Treasury 
said in its medium-term budget statement, released in Cape Town
today. In the Feb. 17 budget, the Treasury forecast inflation of
5.8 percent this year, 6.1 percent next year and 5.9 percent in
2012.  “Currently we are being assisted by the strong currency,
the overvalued currency,” Gordhan said. While it’s difficult to
forecast inflation because of volatile currency markets,
“structurally it appears it’s going to stay pretty much where
it is.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net 
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 