-- Gordon Plans to Bring Urban Brands Chain Out of Bankruptcy With 175 Stores
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-10-27T17:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/gordon-plans-to-bring-urban-brands-chain-out-of-bankruptcy-with-175-stores.html
An affiliate of Gordon Brothers
Group LLC, the store liquidation specialist, will bring Urban
Brands Inc. out of bankruptcy, saving at least 175 of the
chain’s 210 stores, lawyers for the two companies said.  GB Merchant Partners , the unit, won an auction yesterday
for the company, which operates under the Ashley Stewart brand
and calls itself “the premier fashion retailer for the plus-
size urban woman.” GB Merchant will pay $15.7 in cash and
assume some liabilities, company attorney  Mark D. Collins  said
today in court.  “We’re taking this company out of bankruptcy and
restarting its growth from a new and stronger position,”
Managing Director  James C. Rhee  of GB Merchant Partners said in
an interview.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin Carey  said today in a hearing
in Wilmington, Delaware, that when Urban Brands filed for
bankruptcy last month, he had a “strong impression” the chain
would be liquidated. He scheduled a hearing later today to
approve the sale to GB Merchant.  Urban Brands, based in Secaucus, New Jersey, filed for
bankruptcy Sept. 21, blaming the recession and listing debt of
$100 million to $500 million and assets of $10 million to
$50 million.  Ashley Stewart, founded by  Thor Equities LLC  Chief
Executive Officer  Joseph J. Sitt , has stores in urban areas from
New York to Los Angeles, according to its website. The flagship
store is on 125th Street in the Harlem neighborhood of New York,
where it has operated since 1999.  Gordon Brothers often competes at bankruptcy auctions for
the right to conduct going-out-of business sales. The company
won contracts to liquidate  Linens ‘n Things Inc.  and Boater’s
World stores.  The case is In re Urban Brands Inc. 10-13005. U.S.
Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 