-- Greek Bonds Tumble as Government Says Tax Revenue Falling Short
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-10-27T13:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/greek-bonds-drop-as-tax-collection-falls-short-of-government-revenue-goal.html
Greek bonds slid for a third day as
Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said a tax-revenue
shortfall is hampering government efforts to reduce the nation’s
budget deficit.  The declines pushed the  yield  on the 10-year bond to the
highest in more than three weeks. Papaconstantinou, speaking at
a conference in Limassol, Cyprus, said Greece has “serious tax
compliance issues,” while the country’s budget shortfall last
year as a percentage of gross domestic product after a revision
by European Union authorities will be above 15 percent, more
than Prime Minister  George Papandreou  indicated on Oct. 7.  “The tax problems highlight event risk for Greek bonds,”
said  Harvinder Sian , a senior bond strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in London. “The country functions with zero
appetite to pay tax, and the authorities are looking to change
this. Papaconstantinou is drawing a line in the sand, and wants
better compliance from now on.”  The yield on the 10-year Greek bond climbed 74 basis points
to 10.50 percent as of 2:31 p.m. in London. That’s the most
since Sept. 30, based on closing levels. The 6.25 percent
security maturing in June 2020 fell 3.73, or 37.3 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,382) face amount, to 74.82.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Greek 10-year debt
instead of bunds widened by 55 basis points to 771 basis points,
the most since Oct. 5. Credit-default swaps on Greek bonds rose
60 basis points to 738, the highest cost to insure the debt
since Oct. 7, CMA Datavision said.  Unaudited Businesses  Papaconstantinou said there are “about 1.5 million
unaudited cases of businesses” in Greece, while some 1.2
million “Greeks, physical persons and businesses,” have tax
arrears. “We are pretending collectively as a country to have a
tax system,” Papaconstantinou said. “We don’t.”  Prime Minister  Papandreou  urged Greeks to back his ruling
party in next month’s local elections, his first test at the
ballot box since crafting a 110 billion-euro bailout.  “If we stop now and don’t continue with major changes, the
sacrifices we have made so far will be lost,” Papandreou said
in comments televised Oct. 25 on state-run NET TV and six other
channels. “Instead of making the crisis an opportunity, we will
probably find ourselves in a worse situation.”  If Papandreou doesn’t get the result he wants in the
elections, there’s a possibility he may call a general election,
according to RBS’s Sian.  “The popularity of the government is high enough, but an
election still represents an event risk for Greek bonds,” Sian
said.  Greek bonds fell yesterday after Pacific Investment
Management Co. said the nation may default within three years.
Budget cutting won’t be enough to reduce the nation’s debt
burden, Pimco Chief Executive Officer  Mohamed A. El-Erian  said
at a conference sponsored by the Economist magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  