-- IBM Seeks to Abolish `Vampire Energy,' Cut Electronics' Power
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-10-27T20:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/ibm-is-seeking-ways-to-abolish-vampire-energy-cut-electronics-power.html
International Business Machines
Corp.  is researching a way to cut electronic devices’ power
consumption by 90 percent and reduce so-called vampire energy,
or power used while machines and gadgets are turned off.  IBM’s Zurich laboratory is developing a transistor that
would regulate energy usage more tightly than the current
models, preventing energy from being used when devices are left
plugged into an electrical outlet, the Armonk, New York-based
company said today in a statement. It’s working on the project
with European universities and companies.  Reducing power consumption in products with transistors,
which includes supercomputers, laptops and smartphones, would
help companies and home consumers reduce energy bills, said
Adrian Ionescu, a professor in the nanotechnology lab at  Ecole
Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne  in Switzerland, who is
working with IBM on the project. It also would stretch battery
life in mobile devices, he said.  “Instead of having to recharge your battery after two
days, you might extend that to weeks,” Ionescu said in a phone
interview yesterday. “Imagine your laptop lasting 10 times
longer.”  Power from machines in standby mode cost U.S. households a
total of $3 billion in 2005, according to the most recent
Department of Energy figures, IBM said. Energy used by
information technologies and consumer electronics will double by
2022 and triple by 2030 to 1,700 terawatt-hours, the company
said.  Mobile Devices  The project will last about three years, followed by
several years of development and trials, said Heike Riel, who
helps lead nanotechnology research at IBM’s Zurich lab.
Consumers would have products with the new transistors in 2015
“at the earliest,” Riel said.  Reducing power needed in mobile devices such as smartphones
may allow use of alternative energy sources such as solar,
Ionescu said. Mobile devices currently require more power than
such energy sources can provide, he said.  IBM, the world’s largest computer-services provider, spends
about $6 billion, or about 6 percent of total  revenue , on
research and development each year.  IBM  rose  76 cents to $141.43 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have climbed 8 percent
 this year .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 