-- Lighting Science Has Been Buyout Target, CEO Says
-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2010-10-27T21:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/lighting-science-ceo-says-led-bulb-maker-has-been-buyout-target.html
Lighting Science Group Corp. , a
maker of LED bulbs, has attracted potential buyers seeking to
take advantage of increasing sales in energy-efficient lighting,
Chief Executive Officer  Zach Gibler  said.  “We are a target, and we have been approached,” Gibler,
44, said today at an interview in Bloomberg headquarters in New
York. Nothing “has evolved very far because we believe that
there’s a substantial amount of upside potential for our
company, and our shareholders are expecting a premium.”  The LED bulb industry will probably consolidate during the
next three to five years as companies including  Royal Philips
Electronics NV  vie for market share, Gibler said. Light-emitting
diode and compact fluorescent lamps will win more consumer sales
as U.S. law brings an end to production of the 100-watt
incandescent bulb in 2012, manufacturers say.  General Electric Co. said this month its lighting unit may
draw as much as 75 percent of sales from LED products within the
next decade, compared with less than 10 percent now.  While large manufacturers have indicated interest in
acquiring Satellite Beach, Florida-based Lighting Science, some
strategic customers have discussed investing in the company,
Gibler said.  Mexico Plant  Six LED products from Lighting Science are sold at  Home
Depot Inc.  Lighting Science, majority owned by private equity
firm Pegasus Capital Advisors LP, plans to introduce in January
a bulb that gives off about as much light as a 60-watt
incandescent while using a fraction of the energy, Gibler said.  Lighting Science shares have more than doubled this year in
over-the-counter trading. The company, which now employs 417
 workers , is opening a plant in Monterrey, Mexico. In the next 12
to 18 months, overall employment will increase to about 1,800,
Gibler said.  Within two years, more than 50 percent of U.S. households
will use some form of LED lighting in their homes, Gibler said.
The change is being driven by regulations, declining costs and
incentives such as rebates from utilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will Daley  in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  