-- Illinois Pensions Dwindle as Governor Candidates Skirt Budget Crisis
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-10-27T18:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/illinois-pensions-dwindle-as-candidates-for-governor-skirt-budget-crisis.html
Illinois, which shares the worst
state credit rating with California, is draining its pension
funds as candidates for governor promote plans that would cover
less than a quarter of a record budget gap.  Democratic incumbent  Pat Quinn , challenger  Bill Brady , who
is a Republican state senator, and the rest of Illinois’s
leaders haven’t aligned rising spending with revenue that plunged
in the recession. Illinois government “has long been charac-
terized by an unwillingness to enact the politically difficult
fiscal measures needed to balance its budget and fund its pension
plans,” said Moody’s Investors Service in September.  The Illinois State Board of Investments, which manages
about one-fifth of pension funds, can’t wait,  William R. Atwood ,
its executive director, said in an interview. The board is
selling $80 million of assets a month to pay benefits, he said.  “We’re not planning on the election solving our
problems,” said Atwood. “We have to prepare for the worst.”  Neither candidate’s campaign responded to a request from
Bloomberg News to detail his ideas to resolve the $13 billion
deficit, the state’s biggest ever and equivalent to about half
its budget, or to fix its pension funds, whose liabilities will
rise to $79.1 billion in fiscal 2011.  “It’s such a large problem that if one candidate got the
cuts he wanted and the other one got the revenue increase he
wanted, it still wouldn’t fill the hole,” said Tom Johnson,
president of the  Taxpayers Federation of Illinois , an advocate
for fiscal responsibility.  Deeper Still  The deficit is widening, said Comptroller  Daniel Hynes , who
warned in an Oct. 4  report  that the next governor may face a $15
billion gap when he prepares a budget in January.  The inaction has boosted Illinois’s borrowing costs by as
much as $551 million a year, according to a Aug. 30 report from
the Civic Federation, a Chicago-based government watchdog.  Quinn, 61, who took over in January 2009 for ousted and now
convicted governor  Rod Blagojevich , proposed a one-percentage-
point income tax increase early in the year. The General
Assembly didn’t include the increase when it passed the final
budget. Quinn’s budget director predicted  to Bloomberg News in
July that the Legislature will approve a two-percentage-point
increase after the election; the governor has said he won’t
accept more than one percentage point. Each percentage point
added to the existing 3 percent rate would generate $3 billion a
year.  Brady, 49, has said he will balance the budget through
spending cuts and not tax increases. Brady has proposed an
across-the-board, 10 percent reduction in spending, affecting
all programs. That would save about $2.6 billion.  ‘Hard Medicine’  Neither candidate has a concrete solution, said Faraaz
Kamran, 38, who works for Madison Capital Funding LLC in
Chicago, helping private-equity firms finance buyouts in the
health-care industry. He doesn’t expect the candidates to
discuss cuts until after the election because of the political
price.  “There is hard medicine to be had and no one wants to talk
about giving it because it’s not palatable to voters,” said
Kamran.  Quinn, on his  campaign website,  lists top issues as women’s
rights, jobs and growth -- “a crucial component of Illinois’s
economic recovery” -- along with veterans and military
families, health care, ethics reform, the environment, education
and services for gay, lesbian and transgender residents. Brady’s
 top issues  include creating jobs and economic growth, protecting
residents from higher taxes and ethics reform.  Pain Awaits  “They probably don’t want people to realize what’s
ahead,” said  Alan Schankel , director of fixed-income research
for Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, a money management firm in
Philadelphia. “It’s going to be painful for taxpayers.”  Beyond the budget gap lies the pension gorge. Illinois has
the worst-funded state system, with just over half the assets
needed to pay claims, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It hasn’t funded obligations since fiscal 2011 began July 1.
State lawmakers made no appropriations to pay for pensions and
didn’t approve Quinn’s plan to sell $3.7 billion of bonds to
fund contributions this year. With no new cash, the funds must
sell assets to pay benefits, Atwood said.  Running Short  Illinois has $64 billion of assets to pay an estimated
liability of $126.4 billion, enough to cover about half the
benefits for 722,913 workers, according to bond documents. The
unfunded liability will rise to $79.1 billion in fiscal 2011,
according to a May  report  from the Illinois Commission on
Government Forecasting and Accountability.  “If you have no money to balance your budget, where will
the money come from for your pension contributions?” asked
 Thomas Metzold,  who oversees $7 billion of tax-exempt
investments as co-head of municipals at Boston-based Eaton Vance
Corp., which has shunned Illinois debt.  Quinn said he wants to borrow $3.7 billion with bonds to
pay what the state is obligated to contribute to the funds this
fiscal year. He also wants to redesign Illinois’s five public
employee retirement plans to cut costs. The state borrowed for
its 2010 contribution.  Brady, who has criticized Quinn’s borrowing as
irresponsible, said Oct. 5 that he would consider issuing $50
billion of bonds to cover the unfunded pension liability.  Illinois’s five state pension funds have started selling
assets to make payments to retirees. “If you keep withdrawing
money to pay retirees, you’re going to devalue the value of the
fund,” said Metzold.  Who’s in Charge?  Two funds have cut projected returns in recent weeks
because of the damaging effect of liquidating assets, Atwood
said. Having fewer assets means the state’s unfunded liability
will rise more quickly, he said.  The pension crisis figured in Moody’s Investors Service
changing the state’s bond rating status to negative from stable
Sept. 23, a sign of the potential for another rating cut, said
Ted Hampton, a Moody’s analyst. Moody’s ranks the state A1, 
fifth-highest, an assessment it shares with California.  “Not knowing who will be at the controls makes the outlook
more murky,” said  Hampton . “Based on the statements of the 
Democratic incumbent and his opponent you can expect very
different outcomes. It’s difficult to know where
the process is headed.”  Brady held an eight-point lead over Quinn, according to a
 Rasmussen Reports poll  released Oct. 21. The poll of 750 likely
voters Oct. 20 had a margin of error of plus or minus 4
percentage points.  Governors in Trouble  No matter who wins, Illinois residents disgusted by
corruption won’t be easily persuaded to support spending cuts,
said  David Yepsen , director of the Paul Simon Public Policy
Institute at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale.  Blagojevich, convicted for lying to federal agents, is the
fourth of the past nine governors to face charges. His
predecessor,  George Ryan , was convicted in 2006 of trading
favors for trips and cash.  Otto Kerner , in office from 1961 to
1968, was convicted on corruption charges after being appointed
a federal judge.  Dan Walker , governor from 1973 to 1977, was
found guilty of crimes committed after he left office.  “No political leader has the capacity to lay out the
Churchillian message that tells people what they don’t want to
hear,” said Yepsen. “The public just doesn’t trust them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .
 Tim Jones  in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  