-- India Aims to Form Partnership With Russian Winner of Trebs, Titov Fields
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-10-27T10:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/india-aims-to-form-partnership-with-russian-winner-of-trebs-titov-fields.html
India’s state-owned energy explorers
will seek to partner the winner of Russia’s largest
undistributed oil fields after failing to qualify to bid for
developing the areas, a government official said.  “Definitely we are interested in the stake by being
partners,” Oil Secretary  S. Sundareshan , the top bureaucrat in
the ministry, said in an interview in New Delhi today. “We are
in discussions,” he said, without giving details.  The Russian government selected  OAO Bashneft  and  OAO
Surgutneftegaz  as bidders to develop the Trebs and Titov fields,
Yelena Koverga, a Natural Resources Ministry spokeswoman, said
Sept. 27. A unit of India’s  Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  was among
six companies, and the only overseas entity, that submitted
documents to bid for the areas.  Russia’s biggest private producer, OAO Lukoil, OAO Gazprom
Neft, and BP Plc’s venture TNK-BP had also applied.  ONGC signed an agreement in December with Russian
billionaire Vladimir Yevtushenkov’s  AFK Sistema  to study and
explore opportunities in countries including Russia. Sistema
controls Bashneft, which said last month it has the financial
resources to bid alone for Trebs and Titov.  India, which is planning a sovereign wealth fund to help
companies compete with China for overseas energy resources, has
ordered state-run ONGC and  Oil India Ltd.  to each purchase at
least one big asset this year, Sundareshan said in March. ONGC
bought Imperial Energy Plc, which has oil fields in Siberia, for
about 1.4 billion pounds ($2.2 billion) last year.  Russian Assets  ONGC Videsh Ltd. , ONGC’s overseas investment unit, owns a
20 percent stake in Russia’s Sakhalin-1 field, where operator
Exxon Neftegas Ltd. owns a 30 percent stake, according to the
project’s  website .  “We put in an application to be allowed to bid since we
have assets in Russia,” Sundareshan said today.  Trebs and Titov, in Russia’s western Arctic, may hold more
than 200 million metric tons of recoverable reserves, according
to the Russian government.  ONGC Videsh’s Managing Director  R.S. Butola  declined to
comment today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 