-- India Signs International Nuclear Liability Accord That May Ease GE Entry
-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2010-10-27T12:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/india-signs-international-nuclear-accord-that-may-ease-ge-entry.html
India signed an international
nuclear liability accord that aims to shield technology
suppliers from damages in the event of an accident, protection
that companies including  General Electric Co . don’t have under
new domestic laws.  “Signing the convention will benefit India,”  Swapnesh Kumar Malhotra , spokesman for India’s Department of Atomic
Energy, said by phone from the eastern city of Kolkata after the
pact was initialed in Vienna. “Even if ratification takes a
while, business can go on.”  India becomes a signatory to the  Convention on
Supplementary Compensation for Nuclear Damage  10 days before U.S.
President  Barack Obama  visits the country. U.S. technology
suppliers wanted India to join the pact, which needs to be
ratified by one more major nuclear-power generating nation to
take effect, as a move that may brighten prospects for them to
grab contracts in the South Asian country’s $175 billion atomic-
energy market.  Indian lawmakers in August passed the Civil Liability for
Nuclear Damage Bill that allows the nation’s monopoly nuclear
operator to seek compensation from technology providers if
faulty equipment triggered a reactor accident. That’s broader
than a 1997  framework  -- that includes the convention signed by
India today -- in which more than 80 nations agreed to limit
compensation claims to  operators .  “Americans have an issue with current Indian arrangements
on liability,” A.V. Kameswara Rao, executive director at
PricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt., which advises companies in the
nuclear energy business, said by phone. “But as far as India is
concerned, there is a strong case for supplier liability as
well.”  Today’s signing will not be “of much help” in determining
the extent of liability in India without a “political signal”
from the government, Rao said.  Ratification  India’s decision to join the convention will help provide
“affordable and clean electricity for the people of India,”
U.S. Ambassador to New Delhi Timothy J. Roemer said today.  In May 2008, the U.S. became only the fourth country to
ratify the treaty; the others are Argentina, Morocco and Romania.
At least one other country, such as Japan, that meets a required
minimum of nuclear power output must ratify the accord for it to
go into effect. India’s backing alone wouldn’t be enough because
the country doesn’t have sufficient current generation capacity
to reach the threshold.  The government headed by Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
ruling Congress Party, which lacks a majority in parliament, had
to insert a clause to allow compensation claims against
suppliers to gain enough votes to pass the liability bill.  Under the convention, reactor operators must set aside
about $450 million for compensation, and governments that sign
the treaty must cover additional claims.  India needs suppliers including GE Hitachi Nuclear Energy
and Westinghouse Electric Co. to meet its target of boosting
nuclear power generation 13-fold by 2030 to drive economic
growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Archana Chaudhary  in New Delhi at 
 achaudhary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  