-- Soybean-Oil Imports by India to Slump on Cheaper Local Supply, Patel Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-10-27T04:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/india-s-soybean-oil-imports-to-slump-on-cheaper-local-supplies-patel-says.html
Soybean oil imports by India, the
second-biggest user of cooking oils, will slump at least 19
percent next year as a record local harvest of soybeans brings
cheaper domestic supplies,  GG Patel & Nikhil Research Co.  said.  Imports in the year from Nov. 1 will be less than the 1.3
million metric tons forecast last month as traders haven’t
contracted any fresh shipments in the past four weeks, Managing
Director  Govindlal G. Patel  said. Imports will be about 1.6
million tons in the year that ends Oct. 31, said Patel, who’s
traded oilseeds and vegetable oils for more than four decades.  Lower Indian purchases may curb a rally in soybean oil,
which has jumped 30 percent in the past year on speculation dry
weather in Brazil, the second-biggest grower of soybeans, may
slow planting. India may also step up palm oil imports,
according to  Atul Chaturvedi , chief executive at Adani Wilmar
Ltd., India’s second-biggest cooking-oil importer.  “As long as soybean oil is available locally, which I
guess will be the case for the next couple of months, it won’t
make any sense for India to import,” Chaturvedi said in a phone
interview from Ahmedabad, Gujarat yesterday.  Soybean oil reached 50.20 cents a pound in Chicago
on Oct. 25, the highest level in intraday trading in more than
two years. That’s helped widen soybean oil’s  premium  over palm
oil to about $105.14 a ton today from the year’s low of $56.47
on April 30. Soybean oil and palm oil are rival products.  Prices Decline  The December-delivery soybean oil contract fell as much as
1.8 percent to 48.63 cents a pound in after-hours electronic
trade today, while palm oil for January lost as much as 0.9
percent to 3,027 ringgit ($973) a ton in Kuala Lumpur.  Imported soybean oils were at least 4,000 rupees ($90) a
ton more expensive than locally produced oil, Patel, 71,
said from Rajkot, Gujarat yesterday. India is in the middle of
harvesting a record soybean crop of 10.1 million tons this year.  “Palm oil is better priced in the Indian market and may
benefit from the high cost of soybean oil,” said Adani Wilmar’s
Chaturvedi. No big import deals for soybean oil “have taken
place in recent weeks and there may not be many in the next
couple of months unless international prices drop, or local
prices climb.”  India relies on imports to meet half its cooking-oil needs,
buying soybean oil from Argentina and Brazil and palm oil from
Indonesia and Malaysia. Total imports in the 11 months ended
Sept. 30 rose 5 percent to 8.41 million tons, the Solvent
Extractors’ Association of India said on Oct. 15.  Soybean oil imports between April and September surged 65
percent to 1.54 million tons, data from the association show.  India is forecasting record harvests of many crops this
year after the heaviest monsoon rains since 2007. In addition to
the biggest soybean harvest, corn output may exceed 20 million
tons in the year to June 2011, topping a record 19.73 million
tons, Chaturvedi said on Oct. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  