-- Inflation-Linked Bonds Outstrip TIPS as Rate Increases End: Canada Credit
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s
-- 2010-10-27T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/inflation-linked-bonds-beat-tips-as-carney-ends-increases-canada-credit.html
Canada’s real-return bonds are
outperforming other debt as investors buy inflation protection
after the Bank of Canada halted its interest-rate increases and
the U.S. central bank signaled further debt purchases.  Returns on Canadian inflation-linked bonds more than
doubled those of other domestic securities since Aug. 27, when
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the bank may
add more stimulus to the economy through quantitative easing.
Canada  inflation  bonds rose 4.5 percent since then, compared
with 0.78 percent for Canadian government notes, 1.1 percent for
corporate bonds and 1.8 percent for provincials and municipals,
according to The Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. U.S.
inflation-linked bonds returned 4 percent during that time.  “With the prospect of quantitative easing, there’s more
demand by investors to protect themselves against potential
inflation,” said  Doug Porter , deputy chief economist at Bank of
Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit in Toronto. “There’s also a
growing view underlying this rally that real growth will remain
quite weak for some time.”  The yield on Canada’s 4.25 percent inflation-linked bond
due in December 2021 rose to 0.79 percent yesterday from 0.7
percent Oct. 25, the lowest since it was issued in 1991. Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney  last week cut his economic forecast
for 2010 and 2011 and held interest rates steady after three
increases since June.  Inflation Numbers  Bond investors’ expectations for Canadian inflation during
the next decade touched 2.16 percent Oct. 25 -- the highest
since May -- even as the Bank of Canada’s  preferred core measure 
slowed to a rate of 1.5 percent in September. That underscores
how the Fed’s possible moves weigh on investors’ strategies,
said  Sebastien Lavoie , an economist at Laurentian Bank
Securities in Montreal.  “What happens in the U.S. will be so strong that we’re
going to feel the aftershock all the way up here,” Lavoie said.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of corporate rather than federal debt
was unchanged yesterday at 142 basis points. Spreads were as
wide this year as 154 basis points in June, Merrill Lynch data
showed. Yields ended yesterday at 3.63 percent from 3.56 percent
Oct. 25.  This month, the spread on corporate bonds has narrowed 3
basis points, compared with 7 basis points of tightening on an
index of global corporate bonds, the Merrill Lynch data show.
Canadian corporates have returned 0.5 percent in October, versus
0.2 percent on the broader index.  Provincial Bonds  Canada’s provincial bond market, with about C$458 billion
($447 billion) outstanding, yielded 52 basis points over federal
benchmarks, from 53 at the end of last week and 58 at the end of
September. Spreads were as wide as 71 basis points in May.  Merrill Lynch’s index of Canadian provincial bonds is up
0.3 percent this month, compared with a loss of 0.1 percent in
its index of Canadian government bonds. An index of U.S.
municipal bonds has returned 0.2 percent this month.  The Fed meets Nov. 2-3 and is forecast to say if and how it
will implement a second round of quantitative easing, in which
it creates money by buying securities.  Canadian resale home prices rose 11 percent in August from
the same month a year ago, according to the median estimate of
five economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Teranet-National
Bank Composite House Price Index will be released at 9 a.m. New
York time.  Treasury Comparison  Canada’s 10-year bond’s yield rose nine basis points, or
0.09 percentage points, to 2.83 percent, the highest in a month.
The price of the 3.5 percent security maturing in June 2020
declined 76 cents to C$105.67. Canada’s 10-year bonds yielded 19
basis points more than equivalent-maturity U.S. Treasuries, the
narrowest spread since Aug. 2.  Yields on the real-return bond index on Oct. 25 hit the
lowest since Merrill began collecting the data in December 1995.
Inflation bonds had their best three-month return since the
first quarter of 2008 with a gain of 5.6 percent in the July-
September period.  “There’s scope for break-even rates in the 10-year space
to continue to rise,” said  Mohammed Ahmed , a rates strategist
with Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, adding that the price
of the security would gain as a result. “A reasonable target is
about 2.15 percent over the medium term. Inflation protection
will demand a premium going forward.”  Inflation Expectations  Ahmed said inflation expectations, as measured by
subtracting the yield on Canada’s December 2021 inflation-linked
security from Canada’s June 2020 security, stand at about 2
percent, in line with the central bank’s inflation target.  The U.S. “are our biggest trading partner, so if there’s
inflationary pressures in the U.S., there will likely be some
resulting impact on Canada,” Ahmed said.  The Bank of Canada targets a rate of inflation of 2 percent
and it’s unlikely the break-even will fall below that, making
the purchase of real-return bonds a bet with more scope for
gains than losses, he said.  Canada’s real-return  bonds, which pay interest on
principal that’s tied to the consumer price index, have gained 2
percent this month, compared with 2.9 percent and 1.2 percent
for inflation-linked bonds in the U.S. and globally,
respectively, according to the Merrill Lynch data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  