-- Goodman Leads Group Offer for ING Industrial Fund
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-10-28T05:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/ing-industrial-fund-gets-conditional-proposal-from-goodman-pension-funds.html
Goodman Group , Australia’s largest
industrial real estate investment trust, led a A$1.47 billion
($1.43 billion) group offer to buy  ING Industrial Fund , owner
and manager of more than 60 commercial sites and business parks.  Goodman said it led three pension funds in the offer --
which values ING Industrial’s shares at 57 cents each, 24
percent more than yesterday’s closing price in Sydney --
declining to name the funds. China Investment Corp., the Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board and Dutch pension fund Algemene
Pensioen Groep NV are part of the group, the Australian
newspaper reported today.  “An offer like this is the best possible outcome,” said
John White, who helps oversee $3 billion as Melbourne-based
managing director for Asia-Pacific public real estate securities
at Heitman. “If there’s anyone else out there who has any
interest, it lifts the bar.”  Real-estate trusts in Australia racked up almost A$20
billion in losses in the year to June 30, 2009, after a buying
spree leading up to the financial crisis backfired when the
credit crunch struck. The cleanup continues, with Centro
Properties Group seeking buyers for more than A$4 billion of
assets, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  ING Industrial  shares  remain about 80 percent below their
October 2007 peak, even after jumping the most in 15 months
today. The shares climbed 15.2 percent to close at 53 Australian
cents in Sydney. Goodman  shares  ended up 1.6 percent at 64.5
cents.  Netherlands-based ING Groep NV, which is seeking to divest
its global real estate unit, has said it is conducting a review
of its five real-estate funds in Australia.  Conditional Offer  “There is no guarantee that discussions with the Goodman
consortium will lead to a formal, binding offer for all the
ordinary units in IIF,”  Kevin McCann , chairman of ING
Management said in the statement, advising unitholders to take
no action now.  The group is expected to make a binding offer by mid-
December, according to ING’s statement. Goodman will hold about
20 percent of the privatized fund, with the other group members
contributing the balance of the equity, the trust said in a
separate statement.  The offer is “highly conditional” and subject to Sydney-
based Goodman finalizing equity funding arrangements with its
group members, completion of due diligence, execution of proper
documentation, and approval from the Foreign Investment Review
board, ING said.  ING has appointed Goldman Sachs Group Ltd. and UBS AG as
financial advisers. Goodman has retained Macquarie Capital
Advisers.  Goodman’s move also paves the way for bids for  ING Office
Fund , the group’s other major Australian listed property trust,
Heitman’s White said. ING Office today  rose  as much as 8.6
percent before closing up 5.2 percent at 61 Australian cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  