-- IPOs in Asia Grab Record Share of Funds as U.S. Offers Dry Up
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T s a n g   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-10-27T16:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/ipos-in-asia-grab-record-share-of-global-funds-as-u-s-offerings-dry-up.html
Record demand for initial public
offerings in Asia is reducing the share of U.S. IPOs to an all-
time low as companies from China to Malaysia and India flood the
market with more equity than ever.  Jiangsu Rongsheng Heavy Industry Group Co., Petronas
Chemicals Group Bhd. and  QR National Ltd.  are preparing to sell
more than $10 billion of shares as soon as next month, adding to
the $134 billion raised in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Hong Kong’s  AIA Group Ltd.  and  Coal India Ltd.  raised
almost the same amount this month as all U.S. deals this year as
the share of American IPOs dwindled to 11 percent.  Investors are paying 24 times next year’s profits, twice
the average for U.S. equities, because revenues for newly listed
Asian companies are forecast to increase five times as much,
according to William Blair & Co. and Deltec Asset Management.
The world’s fastest economic growth and record-low bond yields
will boost demand for Asian IPOs as American rivals recover from
the longest recession since the Great Depression, Deltec says.  Asia “is an environment ripe for raising capital and ripe
for investing,” said  Joe Carson , a New York-based economist who
helps oversee AllianceBernstein LP’s $1.2 billion Global
Thematic Growth Fund. “It’s based on expectations of strong
growth.”  The region’s share of initial offerings has increased
almost sixfold since 1999, when it accounted for 12 percent of
sales. The amount raised by U.S. IPOs has declined 75 percent in
the same span, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chinese
IPOs led the increase, attracting $76 billion this year.  Chinese IPOs  Jiangsu Rongsheng Heavy , the shipbuilder based in China’s
Jiangsu province, is seeking to sell as much as $1.5 billion in
shares by the end of the year, according to three people
familiar with the IPO. Six other Chinese offerings have already
raised at least $1 billion this year, the data show.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  of Beijing sold $22.1
billion of shares in Shanghai and Hong Kong last quarter in the
world’s biggest IPO on record. No company in the U.S. has raised
more than $700 million this year.  Companies from China and India account for six of the ten
best-performing IPOs on U.S. exchanges this year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Gurgaon, India-based  MakeMyTrip Ltd. , India’s
largest online travel company, has surged 173 percent, while
 JinkoSolar Holding Co. , the maker of silicon wafers in China’s
Jiangxi province, gained 155 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  and the  MSCI Asia-Pacific
Index  have both advanced less than 7 percent this year. Asian
companies that completed IPOs this year have climbed 36 percent
on average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Needs and Wants’  “What the market needs and wants is a lot more IPOs coming
out of China,” said  Jeff Urbina , who oversees emerging-market
strategy at Chicago-based William Blair, which manages more than
$41 billion. “That’s where the growth is.”  IPOs in India are on pace to eclipse the all-time high of
$8.2 billion in 2007, led by Kolkata-based Coal India’s record
sale this month. The government raised $3.4 billion after
investors bid for more than 15 times the shares available.  Coal India  was the first of eight sales the government
plans by March, Disinvestment Secretary  Sumit Bose  said Oct. 19.  Petronas Chemicals, a unit of Malaysia’s state oil company,
is seeking $4.2 billion next month in the Southeast Asian
nation’s largest initial offering ever, two people familiar with
the deal said this week. That’s double the $2.1 billion that 26
Malaysian IPOs have raised in 2010 and would lift the nation’s
sales above last year’s all-time high, Bloomberg data show.  QR National IPO  Australia’s state of Queensland is seeking A$5.05 billion
($4.97 billion) selling shares of coal-train operator QR
National. The IPO would be the nation’s biggest in more than a
decade. Brisbane-based QR National plans to announce the price
of its sale by Nov. 22, according to its offering document.  Shares of Asian IPOs have become more expensive, rising to
28 times next year’s profits from 24 times when sold, based on
the 382 companies with analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s more than double the valuation for companies in the
 S&P 500 , which sell at an average of 12.3 times 2011 earnings.
The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index  of 982 companies is valued at 12.6
times estimated profit, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chinese and Indian IPOs are valued at more than 30 times
next year’s estimated earnings on average.  ‘Bubble Building’  Huatai Securities Co. , the Nanjing, China-based brokerage
that raised $2.3 billion in February, sold its shares at 32
times its estimated 2011 profit, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The stock has  declined  9.2 percent since its listing.  “There’s a bubble building,” said  Angus Tulloch ,
Edinburgh-based joint managing partner at First State
Investments, which oversees $30 billion in the Asia-Pacific
region. “The valuations are beginning to move up. It’s not all
froth, but I think it’s in danger of getting that way.”  Asian companies that completed IPOs this year will post an
average 31 percent gain in revenue in 2011, based on the 340
with analysts’ sales estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  SKS Microfinance Ltd. , the Hyderabad, India-based lender
backed by billionaire  George Soros , may increase revenue 52
percent next year after raising $353 million in an initial sale
in August, the data show.  That’s almost four times the average growth rate for the 30
companies in the  Sensitive Index , the benchmark gauge for Indian
equity, and about nine times faster than the average 6 percent
increase for U.S. companies, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Faster Growth  Asian economies will expand 6.6 percent next year,
according to the Washington-based International Monetary Fund.
In the U.S., where at least 54 companies have postponed or
withdrawn IPOs this year, economic growth will slow to 2.3
percent in 2011, IMF estimates show.  Benchmark interest rates near zero percent in the U.S. and
Japan have increased demand for higher-yielding assets, leading
more investors to Asian IPOs, according to  Greg Lesko , who helps
oversee $750 million at New York-based Deltec Asset Management.  Yields  on 10-year U.S. Treasuries declined to 2.38 percent
this month. The only other time in the past half century that
yields have fallen as low was in the four months after New York-
based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy.  The average yield on U.S. investment grade debt slid to
3.55 percent this month, based on more than 4,000 bonds in Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master Index. That’s
the lowest level since the data began in October 1986 and 27
percent less than the end of 2009. Yields on dollar-denominated
bonds of emerging-market governments fell to a record 5.2
percent this month, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI+  Index shows.  “Since yields are near zero in the Western world, there’s
still a lot of money looking for growth opportunities,” Lesko
said. “Growth in Asia has clearly been superior. The question
is: will there be too much paper for the amount of demand? At
the moment, that doesn’t seem to be the case.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 