-- Iran Allowed to Keep 15% Stake in Namibia's Rossing Uranium Mine, Rio Says
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-10-27T16:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/iran-allowed-to-keep-15-stake-in-namibia-s-rossing-uranium-mine-rio-says.html
Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-
largest mining company, said Iran can maintain a 15 percent
stake in its Rossing uranium operation after a United Nations
ruling barred the country from investing in mines of the fuel.  “We believe we are complying” with  UN Resolution 1929 ,
London-based Rio Tinto said today in an e-mailed statement to
Bloomberg News, citing talks it held with the governments of the
U.S., U.K., Australia and Namibia on the resolution passed by
the 15-nation Security Council on June 9.  Namibia’s  Rossing mine  is the world’s third-biggest
producer of the nuclear fuel, accounting for 7 percent of global
supply, according to  World Nuclear Association  data. Iran,
subject to international sanctions over its nuclear program,
yesterday started loading fuel into the core of its first atomic
power station, which is scheduled to start next year.  Iran “does not gain access to any nuclear technology
through its investments,” Rio said. “It has no uranium product
off-take rights and all dividend payments have been frozen.”  Iran began processing low-enriched uranium to reactor grade
in February, intensifying its conflict with Western countries.
The U.S. and its allies accuse the nation of seeking to develop
atomic weapons. Iran rejects the charge and says it needs the
technology to generate electricity and for other civilian
purposes such as medical research.  Council Vote  “It is shameful that Rio Tinto would attempt to defend any
business with Iran,” Kimmie Lipscomb, a spokeswoman for New
York-based non-profit group  United Against Nuclear Iran , said
today. “How can Rio Tinto claim that by conducting business
with Iran in a uranium mining venture, it is not contributing to
Iran’s ability to develop nuclear weapons?”  The UN Security Council voted 12-2, with one abstention, to
impose new sanctions on Iran in June, including restricting
investment in uranium mines. U.S. President  Barack Obama  said
that day the sanctions would be “vigorously enforced.”  Rio has been advised the UN “sanctions do not prohibit the
Government of Iran from retaining an existing interest in
commercial uranium,” the company said.  State-owned Iranian companies are facing increasing
restraints globally from investing in foreign energy supplies.
European Union governments joined the U.S. in July in imposing
curbs on Iran’s energy industries, banks and shipping companies,
seeking to force it to halt uranium enrichment.  BP Plc said today it’s seeking clarification from the U.K.
government on whether EU sanctions against Iran published today
will force the closure of its North Sea Rhum gas field, a 50-50
venture with Iranian Oil Co. U.K. Ltd.  U.S. Ban  Iran, through  Iran Foreign Investment Co. , or IFIC, has
owned its Rossing stake since 1975, Rio said today. In August,
the U.S. Treasury Department identified IFIC as one of 21
entities owned or controlled by the Iranian government. U.S.
companies by law aren’t permitted to do business with the
Iranian government and such companies.  Mark D. Wallace, president of UANI and a former U.S.
ambassador to the UN, wrote to Rio Chairman Jan du Plessis last
week, saying Iran’s stake appeared to be a violation of U.S.
law. He requested a response by Nov. 2.  “Profits from the Rossing uranium mine are channeled
directly to the Iranian government, emboldening and financially
empowering its pursuit of an illegal nuclear weapons program,”
Wallace wrote in the  letter  dated Oct. 21. “It is time for Rio
Tinto and Rossing to recognize this threat as well and follow
the lead of other responsible companies and stop putting short-
term profits ahead of Iran’s clear threat to global security.”  Rossing Output  The Rossing mine, located 70 kilometers (40 miles) inland
from the coastal town of Swakopmund, began production in 1976.
Rio owns 69 percent of the operation, which produced 4,150
metric tons of uranium oxide in 2009, according to its  website .  Iran hasn’t made any further investment in Rossing since
the resolution was passed, Rio said. There’s an agreement Iran’s
share of future expansion costs would revert to the Namibian
government, it said. Namibia has a 3 percent stake in the mine.  Last year, Rossing sold 46 percent of its output to power
utilities in Asia, 32 percent to utilities in North America, 11
percent to Europe and 11 percent to Japan. Sales are conducted
under the terms of the International Atomic Energy Agency’s
 Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty , the mine’s website shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  