-- Ireland Must Focus on Economic Recovery After Deficit Cut, Economists Say
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-10-27T08:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/ireland-must-focus-on-economic-recovery-after-deficit-cut-economists-say.html
Ireland’s government must now focus
on reviving economic growth after announcing a 15 billion-euro
($21 billion) plan to cut its deficit by 2014, economists said.  The planned spending cuts and tax increases are twice as
much as the government previously said it would put in place to
narrow the budget gap to the European Union limit of 3 percent
of gross domestic product in four years.  “It will be a tall order for Ireland to meet the 2014
deadline given the fragility of both the domestic and global
economy,”  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers
in Dublin, said in a note to investors. “Ireland will have to
generate economic growth if the target is to be met.”  Investor  concern  that Ireland won’t be able to lower the
deficit due to the mounting burden of bank bailouts has pushed
up the nation’s borrowing costs. Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
will next month announce details of the budget plan, which he
said will include a “significant frontloading” for 2011.  “With the scale of consolidation now known, the
department’s strategy for returning the economy to growth”
could “now be described as more important than the
consolidation measures,” said  Dermot O’Leary , chief economist
at Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin.  Ireland’s budget shortfall will reach about 32 percent of
GDP this year, due to a one-time spike from bank-bailout costs,
the government said last month. Excluding that, the deficit will
be about 12 percent.  Yield Spread  The spread between Irish and German 10-year debt widened to
454 basis points on Sept. 29. It was at 391 basis points today,
still the second highest in the euro area after Greece. The
yield on the Irish bonds was at 6.36 percent.  Ireland’s first step must be a “credible” program that
will convince investors, said McQuaid, adding this may allow the
government to extend the 2014 deadline at a later date if
needed.  Aidan Corcoran  at Dublin-based Davy said that given the
need to “convince markets,” a “disproportionate chunk” of
the 15 billion euros may be needed in 2011.  “A menu of options must be laid out,” said O’Leary.
“While the European Commission is putting pressure on Ireland
to achieve the 3 percent target by 2014, it is the markets that
will be the arbiter of whether the series of measures is
enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fergal O’Brien  in Dublin at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net . 