-- Israeli Police Fire Stun Grenades, Tear Gas as Arabs Protest Jewish March
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-10-27T09:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/israeli-police-fire-stun-grenades-tear-gas-as-arabs-protest-jewish-march.html
Israeli police fired stun grenades
and tear gas at Arab residents of Umm al-Fahm after they stoned
officers to protest a Jewish demonstration in the northern town,
a spokesman for the force said.  About 100 Israeli Arabs came out to protest today in
response to the 40 Jewish demonstrators, the police spokesman,
 Micky Rosenfeld , said by phone. Army Radio aired comments from
the Jewish participants, who chanted "death to terrorists" and
alleged a local Muslim religious leader was promoting the
destruction of Israel.  “Stones were thrown at officers on standby and they
responded by dispersing the rioters immediately,” Rosenfeld
said. Ten people were arrested, he said.  It was the second time in 19 months that the group of
Israeli Jews was allowed to hold a march in the town of 43,000
Israeli Arabs. The last demonstration, in March 2009, also ended
in violence.  “This is provocation by a group of inciters,” United Arab
List lawmaker  Ahmed Tibi  said on Army Radio of the Jewish
demonstrators. “They are escalating hatred on racist terms.”  The violence comes amid growing tensions between Israel’s
Jewish and Arab communities over Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s push to change the loyalty oath that will require
new citizens to swear allegiance to Israel as a “Jewish and
democratic state.” Israeli Arabs, who make up about 20 percent
of the population, don’t have mandatory army service, though
they can run for parliament.  Deputy Mayor Mustafa Mahamid protested the police violence
against the Arab demonstrators in his town.  “We were standing quietly and the police started shooting
tear gas at us,” Mahamid said on Army Radio. He said he was hit
in the head and was bleeding and added that lawmaker Hanin Zoabi
was also injured.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this st
Peter Hirschberg at 
 Phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 