-- Italian Business Confidence Rises to 29-Month High, Led by Higher Exports
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-10-27T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/italian-business-confidence-rises-to-29-month-high-led-by-higher-exports.html
Italian  business confidence  rose in
October to the highest in almost two and half years as
executives grew more optimistic that an  export -led  economic
recovery  is gaining momentum.  The  Isae  institute’s manufacturing-sentiment index climbed
to 99.8, the highest since May 2008, from a revised 98.6 in
September, the Rome-based research center said in a statement
today. Economists had predicted a reading of 98.5, according to
the  median  of 18 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  “There is a marked recovery in orders, foreign ones in
particular,” Isae said. “There is also a slight increase in
companies’ expectation on production.”  As gains in  exports  more than offset weak  domestic demand ,
Italian industrial  output  rose 1.6 percent in August, the most
in seven months.  Consumer confidence  unexpectedly increased this
month as households became more upbeat about the outlook for
growth and jobs after the  unemployment rate  declined to a one-
year low in August, Isae said yesterday.  The $2.2 trillion economy, Europe’s fourth-biggest,  grew 
0.5 percent in the second quarter as sales abroad were sustained
by the euro’s 9 percent drop against the dollar in the period
and by exports to Germany, Italy’s biggest trading partner.  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s government last month
 revised  up its  growth  forecast for this  year to 1.2 percent
from 1 percent  predicted  in May. It also  freed up  the remaining
110 million euros ($152.6 million) in consumer incentives for
the purchases of electric vehicles and home appliances, the
Industry Ministry said in an Oct. 21 statement.  Isae polled 4,000 companies between Oct. 1 and Oct. 19.
Isae originally reported business confidence at 98.4 in
September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  