-- Jamie Oliver Barbecues for Bankers in New City of London Venue
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2010-10-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/jamie-oliver-barbecues-for-bankers-in-new-city-of-london-venue-interview.html
Jamie Oliver , famed for “The
“Naked Chef,” “Jamie’s School Dinners,” “Jamie’s American
Food Revolution” and other television shows, is away from the
cameras today and his stamina shows no sign of flagging.  He’s in the kitchen of Barbecoa, the restaurant he plans to
open in the City of London next week, with Adam Perry Lang, 41,
owner of Daisy May’s in New York. Energy bounces between the two
chefs as they show off the grills, pits and ovens with which
they are bringing the best of barbecue to the U.K.  “This is the closest I’ve come to an affair in the past
decade,” Oliver says as he describes the friendship he’s
developed with Perry Lang, who has moved his family to England
to work on Barbecoa with Oliver. Both men smile constantly on a
tour of the kitchen.  Oliver, 35, the father of four children and of more books,
TV shows and restaurants than you can easily count without a
calculator, says he’s taking a step back from his other work
commitments in order to concentrate on Barbecoa. An early
version of the menu features starters such as pork baby back
ribs with crunchy apple and charred hot wings; and mains
including dry-aged rib-eye, pulled pork shoulder, lamb skewer
and beer-can chicken, a dish for two.  View of St. Paul’s  “Mate, the last week’s the happiest that I’ve been
professionally,” Oliver says. “Quite a lot of the stuff that
you might think I enjoy is really a means to an end. I went into
the business to cook, not to be a millionaire or a celebrity
chef. I’m not fighting the celebrity-chef thing because I know
they always do, but I totally know what my job is.”  The restaurant, in the  One New Change  development, offers a
clear view of St. Paul’s cathedral. The interior -- by  Design
Research Studio  under Tom Dixon -- features an open kitchen. The
lines are clean, there’s a high ceiling and the main material on
view is wood. It’s handsome and it seats almost 200.  How nervous is he about opening a large venue now, and what
sort of reception does Oliver -- who also owns founded Fifteen
and the Jamie’s Italian chain -- expect from City workers?  “It’s not so much what do I expect from them,” he says.
“All I know is it’s a lot of pressure, really. City boys come
in all different shapes and sizes. They haven’t all got big
wallets any more but they are busy boys or girls, so speed’s
going to be an issue at lunch: glamour, something new,
authenticity, value -- even for City boys.  Wine Budget  “One of my City-boy friends the other day was very upset
because a wine budget had been put in place. I said, ‘What’s
that?’ They said, ‘50 quid ($79).’ And I went, ‘Well you can
still get a few nice bottles of wine for 50 quid.’ And he goes,
‘No, 50 quid per bottle.’ And I’m like, ‘Jesus, what planet have
you been living on for the last decade?’  “I’m as nervous as someone who’s spent 3 million quid in a
recession would be. I’m nervous to see it busy. It needs to be
busy because if it’s not, it won’t last a month.”  Why barbecue now? What’s the attraction?  “The word barbecue is very misused in England,” he says.
“English people, to be honest, don’t understand what barbecuing
is, probably 99 percent of the whole population, and that sounds
very patronizing and I don’t really care. Barbecue, properly
done, is something that we don’t do here, so it’s been nice to
bring it to the City.”  Any chance of a TV show on the restaurant, which is
scheduled to open on the evening of Nov. 5?  “There’s lots of stuff to be gleaned from what’s going on
in here but probably not,” he says. “It will be nice to keep
the bloody cameras out, to be honest with you.”  Barbecoa, 20 New Change Passage, London, EC4M 9AG. Tel.
+44-20-3005-8555 or click on  http://www.barbecoa.com/ .  ( Richard Vines  is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 