-- JIC Seeks to Avoid Pay Strike That May Affect Xstrata
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2010-10-27T16:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/jic-mining-workers-to-strike-may-affect-impala-xstrata.html
JIC Mining Services Ltd. , a South
African contractor that supplies workers to Impala Platinum Ltd.
and Xstrata Plc, will hold talks tomorrow with the National
 Union of Mineworkers  in an effort to avoid a pay strike.  JIC, based at Randjespark, near Johannesburg, will meet
union officials at 8 a.m. local time for talks, said Andre
Oldknow, the company’s director of human resources. “We’re very
hopeful that we’ll reach an agreement before the strike action
goes ahead,” he said by mobile phone today.  The NUM plans to stop work from the night shift on Oct. 31
after yesterday issuing JIC with a strike notice, it said in an
e-mailed statement today. More than 7,000 workers may down
tools, affecting blasting operations at Impala, Xstrata, Hernic
Ferrochrome Ltd. and Bafokeng Rasimone Platinum Mine, it said.  The labor action “won’t necessarily impact production” at
Impala’s Rustenburg operations, where some JIC workers are
employed, Chief Executive Officer  David Brown  said. “JIC isn’t
involved in direct production, it’s mainly developmental work,”
he said by phone from Johannesburg today.  South Africa, which has the world’s biggest platinum
reserves, saw violent strikes earlier this year by government
employees demanding wage increases, while companies including
Northam Platinum Ltd. and Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. have agreed to
above-inflation gains in wages to end strike action.  Xstrata spokesman Michael Oke couldn’t be reached for
comment, and  Anna Poulter , a spokeswoman for Anglo Platinum,
which owns a stake in Bafokeng Rasimone, didn’t return calls
seeking comments. Hernic Marketing Director  Paddy Probert  didn’t
immediately respond to a message left on his mobile phone.  Impala, the second-largest platinum producer, fell 35
cents, or 0.2 percent, to 192.15 rand by the 5 p.m. close of
Johannesburg trading. Xstrata, the biggest ferrochrome maker,
slid 50.5 pence, or 3.8 percent, to 1,264 pence in London.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alastair Reed in Johannesburg at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  