-- JPMorgan's Highbridge Buys Ex-Central Banker Fraga's Gavea Investimentos
-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o   a n d   A d r i a n a   C h i a r i n i
-- 2010-10-27T19:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/jpmorgan-s-highbridge-buys-fraga-s-gavea-investimentos-update1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co . agreed to
acquire a majority stake in Brazil’s Gavea Investimentos Ltda.,
the fund manager founded by former Brazilian central banker
 Arminio Fraga .  Gavea will sell 55 percent of its operations, including its
entire private banking unit, to the New York-based lender, Gavea
partner  Amaury Bier  said today in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo. JPMorgan may acquire a further 22.5 percent within three
years, and another 22.5 percent in five, Bier said.  Gavea, which runs private-equity and hedge funds, manages
about $6 billion and has 119 employees, according to the firm’s
website. JPMorgan will initially pay $270 million, and the total
amount may reach $1 billion, Brazil’s  Valor Economico  newspaper
said today, without citing the source of the information. Those
prices are “speculations,” Bier said.  “The value will depend on our performance and will go as
far as the eye can see, as long as it would be reasonable,”
Bier said. “The value of resources managed by Gavea will fall
by about $1 billion, which is from private banking, to about $5
billion.”  JPMorgan’s Highbridge Capital Management struck the deal,
which is expected to be completed “shortly,” the companies
said in a statement today that didn’t disclose terms. The firm,
which will remain independent, will be called Highbridge Gavea.  Economists project Brazil’s economic growth will more than
double that of the U.S. this year, helping the country attract
so much capital the government imposed taxes on foreign
investors to stem a currency rally.  ‘Direct Exposure’  “Gavea brings strategy and geographic diversification to
Highbridge,” said  Glenn Dubin , co-founder and chief executive
officer of Highbridge, in an interview. “We had virtually no
exposure to Brazil, and now we have the most valuable local
partner imaginable there.” Fraga also brings an expertise in
macro investing to Highbridge and will manage a portion of
Highbridge’s $6 billion multi-strategy hedge fund. Fraga will
also sit on Highbridge’s investment committee.  Gavea, founded by Fraga in 2003, has offices in his native
Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. A former fund manager for
billionaire  George Soros , he has been in talks with the bank
since at least February, a person with knowledge of the
negotiations said at the time.  U.S. banks are expanding internationally to tap faster-
growing economies. Brazil’s gross domestic product is forecast
to jump 7.1 percent this year, according to the median estimate
of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares with 2.7
percent for the U.S., based on estimates from 65 economists.  International Expansion  International sales and service have been more profitable
for JPMorgan, which derived 24.5 percent of net revenue from
overseas markets last year and 61.6 percent of profits. In
February, it expanded its global commodities-trading unit by
agreeing to purchase parts of RBS Sempra Commodities LLP for
$1.7 billion. That same month, the bank said it plans to double
a 4 percent share of the Asian market over the next few years.  CEO  Jamie Dimon , 54, has also made expanding in the
emerging markets of Brazil, Russia, India and China a priority
by appointing  Heidi Miller  to the new position of head of
JPMorgan International in June.  The bank has a “good presence” internationally, Miller
said when she took the job. “The question is, can we accelerate
growth plans in Asia, can we accelerate what’s going to be
growth in emerging Europe and Latin America?” she said.
“That’s our goal.”  Fraga, 53, was central bank president from 1999 to 2003. He
named his fund after a Rio de Janeiro neighborhood that is
partially covered by tropical rain forest and is home to
Brazil’s only urban national park. He is a member of JPMorgan’s
International Council, which advises the bank on global
business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adriana Brasileiro  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 