-- JPMorgan’s Highbridge Buys Fraga’s Gavea Investimentos Fund
-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2010-10-27T11:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/jpmorgan-highbridge-unit-to-buy-most-of-brazil-s-gavea-investimentos-fund.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co . agreed to
acquire a majority stake in Brazil’s Gavea Investimentos Ltda.,
the fund manager founded by former Brazilian central banker
 Arminio Fraga .  JPMorgan’s Highbridge Capital Management struck the deal,
which is expected to be completed “shortly,” according to a
Business Wire statement today from the companies that didn’t
disclose terms.  Gavea, which runs private-equity and hedge funds, manages
about $6 billion and has 119 employees, according to the firm’s
website. Economists project Brazil will more than double the
pace of U.S. growth this year, helping the country attract so
much capital the government imposed taxes on foreign investors
to stem a currency rally.  “Gávea will provide Highbridge with greater macroeconomic
insight and direct exposure to investing in Brazil,” said  Glenn Dubin , chief executive officer of Highbridge, in the statement.  Gavea, founded by Fraga in 2003, has offices in his native
Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. A former fund manager for
billionaire  George Soros , he has been in talks with the New
York-based bank since at least February, a person with knowledge
of the negotiations said at the time.  U.S. banks are expanding internationally to tap faster-
growing economies. Brazil’s gross domestic product is forecast
to jump 7.1 percent this year, according to the median estimate
of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares with 2.7
percent for the U.S., based on estimates from 65 economists.  International Expansion  International sales and service have been more profitable
for JPMorgan, which derived 24.5 percent of net revenue from
overseas markets last year and 61.6 percent of profits. In
February, it expanded its global commodities-trading unit by
agreeing to purchase parts of RBS Sempra Commodities LLP for
$1.7 billion. That same month, the bank said it plans to double
a 4 percent share of the Asian market over the next few years.  CEO  Jamie Dimon , 54, has also made expanding in the
emerging markets of Brazil, Russia, India and China a priority
by appointing  Heidi Miller  to the new position of head of
international in June.  The bank has a “good presence” internationally, Miller
said when she took the job. “The question is, can we accelerate
growth plans in Asia, can we accelerate what’s going to be
growth in emerging Europe and Latin America?” she said.
“That’s our goal.”  Fraga, 53, was central bank president from 1999 to 2003. He
named his fund after a Rio de Janeiro neighborhood that is
partially covered by tropical rain forest and is home to
Brazil’s only urban national park. He is a member of JPMorgan’s
International Council, which advises the bank on global
business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adriana Brasileiro  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 