-- Kenyan Foreign Minister Wetangula `Steps Aside' Amid Probe Into Corruption
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2010-10-27T13:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/kenyan-foreign-minister-moses-wetangula-steps-aside-amid-graft-probe.html
Kenyan  Foreign Minister  Moses Wetangula  and his permanent secretary said they will relinquish
their posts temporarily pending a parliamentary probe into
alleged corruption.  “My innocence is guaranteed,” Wetangula told reporters
today in Nairobi, the capital. “The only thing I must do is to
step aside. When I am vindicated, I will be back.”  Kenyan President  Mwai Kibaki  announced earlier today he
granted a request by Foreign Ministry Permanent Secretary Thuita
Mwangi to “step aside.” A statement from the presidency didn’t
provide further information.  Kenya ranks 20th from the bottom of a list of the world’s
178 most-corrupt countries compiled by  Transparency
International , the Berlin-based anti-graft organization.  Lawmakers began a debate yesterday on a report by a
parliamentary committee that accuses Wetangula of corruption in
the construction, purchase or sale of Kenyan embassies or high
commissions in Egypt, Nigeria, Belgium, Japan and Pakistan.
Wetangula denies any wrongdoing and has asked the Kenya Anti-
Corruption Commission to investigate the allegations.  In Egypt, the Kenyan Embassy was sold and only 90 percent
of the sale price was submitted to the  Central Bank of Kenya ,
Charles Kilonzo, a lawmaker who is a member of the committee,
said in parliament yesterday. Wetangula said the central bank
issued a receipt for receiving the sale price in full.  “I am being crucified for some issues which happened long
before I was appointed,” Wetangula said.  Other allegations include impropriety in the sale of the
Kenyan High Commission in Lagos, cost increases in the
construction of a chancery and high commissioner’s residence in
Pakistan, and the purchase of an embassy building in Japan that
had previously been rented, Kilonzo said.  Last week, Higher Education Minister  William Ruto  was
suspended pending the conclusion of a separate fraud case
involving the sale of land in the Ngong Forest Sanctuary outside
Nairobi to a state-owned oil company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Ombok  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 