-- King to Address Bankers' City Philanthropy Club at Bank of England Dinner
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-10-27T11:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/king-to-address-bankers-city-philanthropy-club-at-bank-of-england-dinner.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
will tonight speak at an event he is hosting to unveil a group
that encourages philanthropy among younger bankers.  King will deliver a speech to the City Philanthropy Club at
a dinner at the central bank in London, according to an e-mailed
press release today from Pitch Perfect, a charity benefiting
from the club. About 50 people will attend, Libby Rice, who is
managing the event for the charity, said in an interview.  The club is an initiative of  Donald Brydon , Chairman of the
Lord Mayor of London’s  annual charity appeal , with support from
King, Rice said. There is no minimum level of funding needed to
belong to the club and a director hasn’t been chosen.  “I believe passionately in the benefits of philanthropy in
enhancing the lives of both donors and beneficiaries,” King
said in the press release.  The Lord Mayor, the chief official in London’s financial
district, established Pitch Perfect to improve access to music
and cricket for children in disadvantaged parts of the capital.
It combines youth programs of the London Symphony Orchestra and
the Cricket Foundation, a charity that promotes cricket in
through  Chance to Shine , for which King is an ambassador.  King said last year he found it “rather sad” that many
workers in the City, London’s financial district, want to earn
so much money that they can quit their jobs.  “One of the things that I’ve found somewhat distressing
about the lives of many people who worked in the City is that so
many of them thought that the purpose of a bonus and
compensation was to give them a chance to leave the City,” he
told lawmakers in February 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  