-- Natural Gas Prices Gain in New York as Cooler Weather to Boost Fuel Demand
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2010-10-27T16:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/natural-gas-futures-fall-to-13-month-low-on-bets-u-s-inventory-to-climb.html
Natural gas futures rose for a
second day as forecasts showed cooler-than-normal weather next
week, boosting demand for the heating and power-plant fuel.  Gas advanced as temperatures will be below normal in the
Northeast and Midwest next week, according to Commodity Weather
Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland. About 52 percent of U.S.
households use gas for heating, according to the Energy
Department.  “Weather is getting cooler and you start wondering maybe
we can see some buyers coming in,” said  Brad Florer , a trader
at Kottke Associates Inc., an energy trading firm in Louisville,
Kentucky. “Gas has been falling for quite a long time and
you’ve got some people taking a shot that it’s near the
bottom.”  Natural gas for November delivery rose 1.1 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $3.365 per million British thermal units at 11:33
a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The futures have
declined 40 percent this year.  The November contract expires today. The more active
December futures gained 4 cents to $3.806 per million Btu.  A potential storm next week may “wrap in stronger cooling
from Canada” and deliver snow to the Northeast, according to
MDA Federal Inc.’s EarthSat Energy Weather in Rockville,
Maryland.  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show that gas
stockpiles increased by 74 billion cubic feet in the week ended
Oct. 22, according to the median of 13 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year average gain for the week
is 45 billion.  Supply Report  Stockpiles rose 93 billion cubic feet in the week ended
Oct. 15 to 3.683 trillion cubic feet, the department said last
week, a record increase for the month of October.  A surplus to the five-year average widened to 8.4 percent
from 7.4 percent in the previous week. A deficit to year-earlier
supplies narrowed to 1.3 percent from 3.2 percent.  Stockpiles  climbed to a record 3.837 trillion cubic feet
last November before cooler weather spurred demand for heating, 
reducing supplies.  Stockpiles may total 2 trillion cubic feet by the end of
the heating season in March, according to Barclays Capital. That
would be the  highest ever  storage level for that month.  “The upside potential for prices is limited in the
upcoming winter,” said Barclays analysts including  Biliana Pehlivanova  in a report dated yesterday. “Even a prolonged cold
weather snap is unlikely to push prices out of the range they
established in the winter of 2009-10.”  The gas futures based on the contract closest to delivery
moved between $3.82 and $6.108 per million Btu from November
2009 though March 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  