-- New Zealand Companies More Confident About Hiring, Profits, Survey Shows
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-10-27T02:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/new-zealand-companies-more-confident-about-sales-profit-survey-shows.html
New Zealand business  confidence  rose
for a second month in October on expectations for more hiring
and investment in the next year and greater optimism about the
nation’s economic recovery, a private survey showed.  A net 30.5 percent of companies expect their own sales and
profits will increase over the next 12 months, up from 26.7
percent in September, according to a  survey  by ANZ National Bank
Ltd. released in Wellington today. The gauge has rebounded from
a 12-month low in August.  The report added to evidence that growth will accelerate
after  gross domestic product  rose 0.2 percent in the three
months through June. Confidence is above average in Canterbury
province as firms anticipate increased demand during the
rebuilding after a magnitude 7 earthquake rocked the region on
Sept. 4, the bank said.  “There appears to be demand but of a sketchy and scratchy
nature,” ANZ economists said in the report posted on the bank
website. “The critical ingredients for a broad and robust
recovery, in the form of hiring and investment, are still
lacking.”  A net 3.6 percent of companies expect to increase
investment in the next year, the survey showed. The net figures
subtract those expecting to reduce investment from those
expecting an increase. A net 7.6 percent intend to hire more
 workers  and 9.5 percent expect higher profits.  The measure of overall confidence in the economy rose for
the first time in six months, with 23.7 percent of the 474
companies surveyed expecting the economy to improve over the
next year, up from 13.5 percent in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  