-- New Zealand Holds Interest Rate Unchanged as Recovery Slows
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-10-27T21:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/new-zealand-holds-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged-as-quake-slows-growth.html
New Zealand’s central bank left its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged for a second month as the
nation’s worst earthquake in eight decades hobbles near-term
growth and slower consumer spending eases inflation concerns.  “Continued household caution has seen consumer spending
and housing market activity muted,” Governor  Alan Bollard  said
in a statement in Wellington today after leaving the official
cash rate at 3 percent. “While it is appropriate to keep the
cash rate on  hold  today, it remains likely that further removal
of monetary policy support will be required at some stage.”  Bollard’s pause may help give  consumers  time to recover and
housing demand a chance to grow as rebuilding gets under way
after the earthquake, signaling stronger economic growth in 2011.
Economists forecast the cash rate won’t be raised until the
first quarter of next year, helping stoke an export-led recovery.  Today’s decision was predicted by all 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. New Zealand’s currency traded at
74.57 U.S. cents at 9:52 a.m. in Wellington from 74.37 cents
immediately before the statement.  “The Reserve Bank is clearly in no hurry to start removing
policy stimulus,” said  Khoon Goh , head of market economics at
ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “We still think the next
phase of the tightening cycle will be in March next year, but
for now the Reserve Bank is quite comfortable with where it is.”  Inflation Outlook  In the statement, Bollard said the effects on inflation
expectations from a higher sales tax rate will be minimal. The
government raised the so-called goods and services tax to 15
percent from 12.5 percent on Oct. 1.  “Headline inflation is expected to move higher following
the recent increase in the rate of GST,” Bollard said. “The
subdued state of domestic demand suggests this inflation spike
will have limited impact on medium-term inflation
expectations.”  Bollard is required to keep inflation in a range of 1
percent to 3 percent, and the central bank forecasts prices
excluding the effects of the sales tax will peak at 2.1 percent
for the year ending June 2011.  Reconstruction and repairs after the magnitude 7 temblor
that struck Canterbury province on Sept. 4 “will support
activity over the coming year,” Bollard said today. High export
prices will also buoy economic growth, he said.  Quake Effects  The earthquake likely reduced gross domestic product by 0.3
percent in the third quarter, and then rebuilding will bolster
growth in the following two quarters, the central bank said on
Sept. 16. Bollard didn’t provide any further details about the
quake’s economic toll today.  Bollard today said “many firms have become less optimistic
about their future prospects.”  Last week, the  government  said about 6,800 properties in
the nation’s second-largest city of Christchurch and surrounding
districts were affected by land damage, while as many as 50,000
homes and buildings will need moderate to serious repairs.  All economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect Bollard
will keep the cash rate unchanged at his next review on Dec. 9.
Last week, the governor told a parliamentary panel that
forecasts for no rate changes until 2011 “wouldn’t seem an
unreasonable expectation” given the outlook for domestic demand.  Holding Patterns  Bollard has joined central banks from Australia to South
Korea that have paused rate increases this year amid signs of a
slower global recovery and rising exchange rates.  The Reserve Bank of Australia on Oct. 5 kept its benchmark
at 4.5 percent for a fifth month amid signs of cooling domestic
demand.  Concern that strengthening economic growth will stoke
inflation prompted policy makers elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific
region to boost rates. India’s central bank has increased
borrowing costs five times this year, Malaysia has done so three
times, Thailand twice and South Korea once.  “Downside risks to the outlook for global growth
continue,” Bollard said in today’s statement. “It is unclear
how further policy support would impact on the outlook for
growth in our Western trading partners,” he said, referring to
the U.S. and Europe.  Weaker Data  The medium-term outlook for New Zealand’s economy is
broadly in line with September’s forecast, even after “recent
data has turned out weaker than projected,” Bollard said. Last
month, the central bank cut its 2011 growth forecast to 2.5
percent from 3.8 percent, excluding the effects of the
earthquake.  Retail spending  unexpectedly stagnated in August and core
sales fell for a second month, according to government figures
released Oct. 14.  Kirkcaldie & Stains Ltd. , which owns a department store in
the capital city Wellington, yesterday said full-year earnings
fell 10 percent as spending slowed.  “Trading remains difficult with shoppers extremely
cautious about spending in the current economic climate,” the
company said in a statement sent to the stock exchange.  House sales  fell 33 percent in September from a year
earlier and an index of house prices was near a 12-month low,
the Real Estate Institute said in an Oct. 14 report.  Consumer prices  rose 1.5 percent in the 12 months ended
Sept. 30, the smallest increase in six years, according to a
report this month. Still, inflation is likely to peak at 4.8
percent by mid-2011 after an increase in sales tax is included,
the central bank forecast last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  