-- New Zealand Dollar Advances After Bollard Comments; Aussie Gains on China
-- B y   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-10-28T17:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/new-zealand-dollar-advances-as-reserve-bank-leaves-interest-rate-unchanged.html
New Zealand’s dollar rose for the
first time in three days against its U.S. counterpart after
Reserve Bank Governor  Alan Bollard  said interest rates will
probably need to increase in the future.  The kiwi rallied as the central bank, which kept borrowing
costs on hold today, said high export prices and reconstruction
in earthquake-hit areas will likely offset weak consumer
spending. The Australian dollar advanced on speculation economic
growth in China will boost demand for commodities produced by
the South Pacific nation.  “The RBNZ statement revived hopes for the resumption of
interest-rate increases,” said  Naoto Minatogawa , a currency
analyst at Himawari Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “This will give
some important impetus to buy the so-called kiwi.”  New Zealand’s dollar appreciated 1.1 percent to 75.37 U.S.
cents at 1:02 p.m. in New York, from 74.54 yesterday.
Australia’s dollar rose 0.6 percent to 97.79 U.S. cents, from
97.20. It touched parity with the greenback on Oct. 15 for the
first time since currency controls ended in 1983.  New Zealand’s benchmark rate of 3 percent and Australia’s
4.50 percent rate compare with levels as low as zero in the U.S.
and Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  Australia’s dollar advanced after Financial News cited a
researcher at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences as saying
China’s economic growth will be more than 10 percent this year.  Loose Liquidity  The Chinese central bank’s measures have had a limited
impact on overly loose liquidity, reported Financial News,
published by the People’s Bank of China. China is Australia’s
largest trading partner.  Growth in China and underlying decent demand for commodity
products “mean that the Reserve Bank of Australia will
eventually resume normalization of interest rates,” said
 Kazumasa Yamaoka , a chief strategist at the investment advisory
company GCI Research Institute Ltd. in Tokyo. “It would not be
a surprise if the Aussie headed back toward parity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net ;
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  