-- Nintendo's Mario Gets Snake-Eating Ally as 3DS Takes on Sony PlayStation
-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i
-- 2010-10-28T07:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/nintendo-3ds-targets-core-gamers-sony-s-playstation-portable.html
In “ Nintendogs ,” a game franchise
for  Nintendo Co. ’s DS, players train, groom, and feed a virtual
puppy. Neglect your Nintendog, it gets filthy and runs away;
care for it, the pup frolics and paws at the screen.  With more than 23 million copies sold, it’s one of
 Nintendo’s  most popular series. It also helps explain the
company’s current difficulties, Bloomberg Businessweek reports
in its Nov. 1 issue.  Nintendo became a runaway  success  as the gaming company for
non-gamers. The motion-sensing  Wii console  and the handheld DS
featured beginner-friendly fun for the whole family with titles
such as “Mario Kart” and “DJ Hero” in addition to
Nintendogs.  Nintendo kept the technology simple and the prices low --
the Wii debuted in 2006 at half the price of  Sony Corp. ’s
PlayStation 3 -- to attract casual players. Trouble is that
casual gamers, by definition, don’t play or buy a lot of games.
While Nintendo isn’t forsaking those customers, its new 3DS, due
out in February, aims to win back the core players that prefer
their games to feature lifelike commandos instead of canines.  The 3DS was one of the hottest new products at the annual
E3 game confab in June, where lines of eager developers wrapped
around Nintendo’s booth for three days waiting to test out the
new system.  Activision Blizzard Inc.  Chief Executive Officer
 Bobby Kotick  says the device could be a “game-changer.”  PlayStation Portable  With its upgraded technology, the handheld will beat out
its closest competitor,  Sony ’s PlayStation Portable, said  Atul Goyal , a senior research analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.  “The company has taken a U-turn and is focusing more on
core gamers,” said Tokyo-based Goyal, who has an “ outperform ”
rating on  Nintendo  and recommends buying Sony shares. “They
understand that the casual market is crowded.”  It’s a shift born of necessity. Nintendo, which today
reported its first semi-annual loss in seven years, needs to
reverse a  sales drop  that’s caused its  stock  to fall more than a
third since the end of 2008. In September, the company forecast
that next year’s  net income  will tally $1.1 billion, its lowest
level in six years.  The problem, says President  Satoru Iwata , is that Nintendo
is competing “with anything that demands people’s attention and
energy.” That includes Sony and Xbox-maker. Both companies are
debuting motion-sensing controllers this season that will
compete directly with Nintendo’s Wii.  Iwata was also referring to the popularity of online social
games such as Zynga Game Network Inc.’s “Farmville” and
“Mafia Wars.”  Apple Inc. , too, is a threat. It’s sold 120
million of the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch in the last three
years, and now promotes them as handheld gaming machines that
render a second device like the DS unnecessary.  DS Upgrade  The 3DS, which Nintendo announced in March, is an upgrade
to the DS, and part of Nintendo’s new effort to be everything
for everyone. The 3DS will feature wireless Web access, multiple
cameras, and accelerometers to sense motion, just like Apple’s
iPhone and iPod Touch. As its name suggests, the 3DS can also
show three-dimensional images -- and no need for special
glasses. Nintendo is now working with studios to bring
streaming, 3-D movies to the device.  The 3DS is also an appeal to hardcore gamers that favor
hack-and-slash titles and violent shooters like Activision
Blizzard’s “Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare.” Nintendo, with
its simple game characters and emphasis on ease-of-use over raw
computing power, hasn’t excelled in delivering these mature,
high-end games. The 3DS, though, will house a more powerful
processor and a higher definition display than its predecessor.  PS3, Xbox Threat  While the 3DS will heat up competition for Sony’s PSP, it’s
not yet clear how it will impact PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360
consoles, because Nintendo hasn’t made public any plans for a
Wii successor, said  Hirokazu Hamamura , president of Tokyo-based
research firm Enterbrain Inc.  Hardware specs are only part of the effort. Nintendo is
unique among the big console makers in that many of its best-
selling titles, such as “The Legend of Zelda” and all the
Mario variants, are produced in-house. Yet the titles high-end
gamers love to play are generally made by outside developers.  Snake-Eating Spy  Iwata says that Nintendo’s own games have in the past
overshadowed those by third-party studios, and in September
pledged more support for outside companies. Of the 75 titles
already announced for the 3DS, only nine are from Nintendo’s in-
house studio. At a promotional event in Tokyo last month, Iwata
pointedly chose  Konami Corp. ’s “Metal Gear Solid,” the
adventures of a snake-eating spy, and  Capcom Co. ’s “Resident
Evil” to show the graphical capabilities of the 3DS.  Still, hardcore gamers won’t necessarily come running.
 Tetsuo Suzuka , a 37-year-old visual artist in Tokyo, is a case
in point. A lifelong Nintendo fan, he waited in line to buy a
Wii when it debuted in late 2006, only to end up selling it a
year later.  “It feels futile to be swinging arms around in a room all
by yourself,” Suzuka says, adding that he won’t be waiting in
line for the 3DS. “Even as the hardware gets more advanced, the
contents are still the same light fare.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshinori Eki  in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 