-- Nordic Central Banks Bow to Risk in Policy Back Track
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-10-28T12:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/nordic-central-banks-succumb-to-global-risks-as-fast-tightening-abandoned.html
Central banks in Sweden and Norway
are bowing to pressure to delay interest-rate increases next
year as the prospect of a global recovery dwindles and borrowing
costs in the U.S. and Europe remain low.  The Stockholm-based Riksbank on Oct. 26 said faltering
recoveries abroad will prevent it from raising interest rates
next year as fast as it signaled in September. Oslo-based Norges
Bank yesterday said it won’t raise its rate from 2 percent until
the middle of 2011, compared with a June forecast for tightening
to resume at the “turn of the year.”  “Low international rates are keeping Norges Bank and the
Riksbank from hiking as fast as they would like to,” said
 Kjersti Haugland , an analyst at Norway’s biggest bank DnB NOR
ASA and a former Norges Bank economist. The Riksbank will
“proceed even slower than they have predicted.”  Swedish and Norwegian exports to the European Union make up
about 60 percent of the countries’ sales abroad, much of that in
the form of subcomponents used in products that are then shipped
to the U.S. Raising rates while Europe and the U.S keep
borrowing costs low would fuel currency gains and undermine
those exports, which the Nordic countries rely on for half their
economic output.  According to  Par Magnusson , chief Nordic economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Stockholm, the two banks may not
raise rates at all next year.  ‘Wrong Direction’  “Things are going in the wrong direction in the U.S.; in
the eurozone nothing is really improving, things are just
snowballing so there is a huge threat,” Magnusson said in an e-
mailed response to questions yesterday.  Norway’s  three-month forward-rate agreements  due December
2011 slipped 6 basis points yesterday to 2.695 percent and lost
a further 5 basis points today. Equivalent  Swedish contracts 
dropped 9 basis points to 2.13 percent the day of the rate
announcement, and have fallen 2 basis points since.  “We still think that the risks to the” Norwegian central
“bank’s growth forecasts lie to the downside and expect a
slightly more gradual pace of monetary tightening,” said  Ben May , an economist at Capital Economics, in a note. “But with
other central banks likely to loosen monetary policy over the
coming months and concerns about the health of some economies’
public finances unlikely to ease soon, the krone could
appreciate further.”  Markets  The Norwegian krone slipped 0.1 percent against the euro
today to 8.1410 at 2:22 p.m. in Oslo. The Swedish  krona  gained
0.3 percent to 9.3100 against the euro.  There will be a “slower pace of appreciation near-term”
for the Swedish krona, said  Carl Hammer , chief currency
strategist at SEB AB in Stockholm, in a note today. Still, he
expects the krona to reach 9.20 against the euro in one month,
and trade at 8.75 by the end of next year.  Norway’s krone will also appreciate gradually against the
euro and reach 7.80 in the first half of 2011, Hammer estimates.  Norges Bank, which last October became the first in Europe
to scale back crisis easing, is now signaling it will keep
“monetary policy very expansionary by being on hold,” said
 Katrine Boye , senior economist at Nordea Bank AB and a former
Norges Bank analyst. “So right now, I would not say they are on
a tightening cycle.”  While the Riksbank this week raised its seven-day repo rate
a quarter point to 1 percent, as predicted by all 20 economists
in a Bloomberg survey, it said “weak developments overseas”
mean “it is not deemed the repo rate needs to be raised so much
in the coming years.”  ‘Can’t Continue’  Since it started providing numerical rate forecasts in 2007,
the Riksbank revised its rate path 14 times out of 22. The bank
in 2008 raised rates 11 days before the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc ., only to cut its repo rate by 2.75
percentage points the following quarter.  “They can’t continue raising rates as the interest rate
spread will widen and will increase pressure on the Swedish
krona,” said  Tina Mortensen , an economist at Citigroup Inc., in
an interview. “I wouldn’t be surprised if we see Sweden enter a
slightly similar path to what we have seen in Norway.”  The Riksbank started raising rates on July 1. Since then,
the world’s major central banks have signalled they may pump
more money into their economies to help prop them up.  ‘Close Call’  In Sweden, “we certainly could have an extended pause
ahead of us if global conditions deteriorate,” said  Everett Brown , European bond strategist at IDEAGlobal in London. Having
the repo rate at 1 percent “would be a natural point to
pause.” The bank may yet raise rates in December, though this
remains “a close call,” he said.  Inflation in  Sweden  and  Norway  has lagged behind central
bank targets. Norway’s underlying inflation, which excludes
taxes and energy, eased 0.5 point to 0.9 percent in September,
compared with the bank’s 2.5 percent target. Sweden’s headline
inflation has hovered below the Riksbank’s 2 percent target
since December 2008. Prices rose an annual 1.4 percent last
month.  A report published by the Stockholm-based statistics office
today showed Swedish  consumer confidence  dropped this month,
while  business confidence  rose less than economists estimated.  “We are going to see slow growth going forward and we are
going to see lower inflation as well because there is a
deflationary impetus from abroad,” Magnusson said.  ‘Bad Track Record’  The Riksbank this week lowered its inflation estimates for
2011 and 2012 and said there are “low inflationary pressures
prevailing in Sweden during the forecast period.”  Norges Bank said inflation “has been lower than expected
and is projected to remain at around 1.5 percent in the period
to summer 2011. The outlook for the global economy is “highly
uncertain,” it said.  The Riksbank’s October estimates are based on a 2011
economic growth forecast of 3.8 percent. The IMF, by contrast,
expects Sweden’s economy to expand 2.6 percent next year.  “Historically, at least in the last four years, the
Riksbank has had quite a bad track record” in forecasting
accurately, said  David Deddouche , a foreign-exchange strategist
at Societe Generale SA in Paris, before the rate announcements.
“They are really stubborn in waiting for evidence that they are
totally wrong.”  Two of the Riksbank’s six board members this week voted
against higher rates. “It doesn’t take much to persuade one
other board member and then the aggressive hiking process is
history,” said  Mads Geisler  at SEB AB in Oslo. The likelihood
the two banks will shelve tightening next year is “risk-reward
wise a good bet to take,” Magnusson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  