-- Norges Bank Keeps Rate Unchanged, Cuts Rate Forecast
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2010-10-27T14:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/norwegian-central-bank-keeps-benchmark-rate-unchanged-cuts-rate-forecast.html
Norway’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a fourth meeting and said
it will delay plans to resume monetary tightening until the
middle of 2011 as it waits for more signs of a recovery abroad.  Oslo-based Norges Bank left the  overnight deposit rate  at 2
percent, as forecast by all 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The bank, which last October became the first in Europe to scale
back crisis easing, last raised rates on May 5.  “The analyses presented in the October Monetary Policy
Report indicate that the key policy rate should be held at the
current level over the coming quarters and then gradually raised
towards a more normal level,” the bank said in a statement.
“Developments since June suggest that the interest rate should
be raised somewhat later than projected in the June Report.”  Policy makers echoed concerns voiced by their peers at
Sweden’s Riksbank, who yesterday said a sluggish recovery and
low borrowing costs in the U.S. and Europe will delay their
plans to continue raising rates next year. Norges Bank Governor
 Svein Gjedrem  today told reporters the bank won’t raise rates
until the summer of 2011. That compares with an earlier
assessment of tightening to resume at the “turn of the year.”  The revised rate path indicates two increases in borrowing
costs next year, compared with the three signaled in the June
report, said  Katrine Boye , a senior economist at Nordea Bank AB,
and a former Norges Bank analyst.  Krone Reaction  The krone was little changed against the euro at 8.1299 at
3:38 p.m. in Oslo. Against the dollar, it was down 0.3 percent
at 5.8849.  Gjedrem said Norwegian export growth is lagging behind a
recovery in international trade after the bank’s rate rises
fueled a krone appreciation.  The bank expects the key policy rate to average 2 percent
this year, 2.25 percent in 2011 and 3.25 percent in 2012, it
said. In its June report, the bank said it expected next year’s
rate to average 2.5 percent. The rate will reach 4 percent in
2013, it expects. Underlying inflation will average 1.25 percent
in 2011, 2 percent in 2012 and 2.25 percent in 2013, compared
with the banks 2.5 percent target throughout the forecast period.  The mainland economy, which adjusts for the impact of energy
and shipping, will grow 1.75 percent this year, 3 percent in
2011 and 2012 before expansion slows to 2.75 percent in 2013,
the bank said.  Weak Developments  “They put emphasis on the weak developments abroad,” said
 Kyrre Aamdal , an economist at DnB NOR ASA, before the rate
decision. “For the U.S., the U.K., and the eurozone, forward
interest rates have declined substantially and that reflects
expectations of lower interest rates in those countries for a
long time because the development is very weak.”  The European Union may face sluggish growth as governments
press ahead with deficit cuts, the International Monetary Fund
said on Oct. 20. The U.S. economy will grow only 1.75 percent
over the next year, with risks pointing to even slower expansion,
said  Ramin Toloui , an emerging markets portfolio manager at
Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, on a conference call this month.  Norges Bank’s three rate increases since last October
widened the gap between borrowing costs in Norway and abroad,
driving a 13 percent krone appreciation against the euro from a
September 2009 low through a May high. That hurt exporters such
as  Norsk Hydro ASA , Europe’s third largest aluminum maker.  ‘Increasingly Concerned’  “In 2010, Norges Bank has been increasingly concerned
about the krone exchange rate and the interest rate differential
with abroad,” said  Petter Andreassen , head of sales at SEB AB
in Oslo, in an e-mailed note to clients before the rate decision.  Prospects of further krone strengthening will prevent
Norges Bank from raising rates, the bank’s next governor,
 Oeystein Olsen , signaled last week.  “Norges Bank cannot go alone, for sure; international
developments including interest rate paths abroad will
potentially affect” policy “via the exchange rates,” he said
in an interview after being appointed governor from Jan. 1.
Gjedrem’s second and last six-year term ends on Dec. 31.  The European Central Bank, which has kept its benchmark at
1 percent since May 2009, on Oct. 7 said rates are
“appropriate.” The U.S. Federal Reserve on Sept. 21 reiterated
plans to keep the benchmark “exceptionally low” for an
“extended period.” Its main rate has been in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Moderate Inflation  A slower recovery abroad is also leading to moderate
inflation pressures, increasing Norges Bank’s scope to slow the
pace of interest rate rises.  Underlying inflation , which adjusts for energy and taxes,
has lagged behind the central bank’s 2.5 percent target since
August last year. The rate stood at 0.9 percent last month.  Consumer demand in the world’s second richest country per
capita is also showing signs of faltering, with  retail sales 
excluding motor vehicles and gasoline, dropping a seasonally
adjusted 1.2 percent in August. In the third quarter, house
prices fell for the first time since 2008, reducing the risk of
a property bubble and removing the bank’s main reason to raise
rates.  “Private consumption was so far less dynamic than expected
by Norges Bank,” economists at Commerzbank said in a note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Josiane Kremer  in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  