-- Glaxo Agrees to Pay $750 Million to Settle Defective Drug Lawsuit in U.S.
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2010-10-27T11:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/novo-nordisk-lifts-2010-forecasts-after-beating-estimates-on-victoza-sales.html
Novo Nordisk A/S , the Nordic
region’s biggest drugmaker, raised its forecasts for revenue and
profit growth this year, buoyed by sales of the new diabetes
treatment Victoza and patented insulins.  Operating profit will climb more than 15 percent in local
currencies, the Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based drugmaker said today in
a statement. Sales on the same basis will increase 11 percent to
12 percent, Novo said. The company previously predicted
operating profit growth of 12 percent to 15 percent and a sales
increase of 9 percent to 10 percent. Earnings for the third
quarter beat analyst estimates.  Novo, the world’s biggest manufacturer of  insulin , began
selling Victoza this year to broaden its offerings in the market
for blood sugar-lowering medicines. Third-quarter sales of the
medicine reached 700 million kroner ($129.7 million), helping
lift profit amid price pressure from European governments
cutting health budgets. Analysts predicted sales of 450.8
million kroner, the median of four estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It’s an impressive result,”  Frank H. Andersen , an
analyst with Silkeborg, Denmark-based Jyske Bank A/S, said in a
note to clients. Andersen has a “reduce”  rating  on the shares.
“Revenue was much better than expected, which was due to
Victoza.”  Surging Stock  Third-quarter net income increased 30 percent to 3.59
billion kroner from 2.76 billion kroner for the same period a
year earlier. Analysts predicted 3.29 billion kroner, the median
of 13  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 25 percent
to 15.6 billion kroner.  Novo shares rose 7 kroner, or 1.3 percent, to 546 kroner at
12:24 p.m. in Copenhagen trading. Before today, Novo had surged
65 percent this year including reinvested dividends,  compared
with  a 3.8 percent return on the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical
Index .  The company is seeing “very solid momentum” for insulin
demand and is optimistic about the “successful roll-out of
Victoza,” Chief Financial Officer  Jesper Brandgaard  said in a
telephone interview today.  For 2011, the company forecasts sales growth of close to 10
percent and an increase in operating profit of 10 percent to 15
percent, both in local currencies. In kroner, sales growth will
be about 2 percentage points lower because of the Danish
currency’s strength, while profit growth will be 4 points lower,
the company said.  Analysts predicted Novo will report a 9.2 percent increase
in sales next year to 64.5 billion kroner, based on the median
estimate in a  Bloomberg survey .  GLP-1 Hormone  Victoza, which competes against Eli Lilly & Co., Amylin
Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Alkermes Inc.’s Byetta, is a synthetic
version of the naturally occurring hormone GLP-1. Produced in
the gut after eating, the hormone prompts the pancreas to make
insulin.  Novo expects sales of Victoza, which U.S. regulators
approved in January, to reach $1 billion by 2012, earlier than
expected, because of delays in rival treatments, Brandgaard
said. It also is testing the treatment for obesity.  Worldwide sales of Byetta, which is injected twice daily
compared with Victoza’s once-daily administration, fell 18
percent in the third quarter to $168.8 million, Lilly said on
Oct. 21. The Indianapolis-based company attributed the drop to
competition in the U.S. and German markets.  Competition  Lilly is developing a once-weekly version, Bydureon. Last
week, U.S. regulators for a second time declined to approve the
new drug. Novo, which trails Lilly in making a once-weekly
version, gained the most in two years in Copenhagen trading.
Victoza also will benefit from delays in the development of
another rival diabetes treatment,  Roche Holding AG ’s
taspoglutide, according to  Mark Dainty , an analyst at Citigroup
Global Markets.  Delays to both taspoglutide and Bydureon “reinforce
Victoza’s competitive positioning in the market,” Dainty and
other Citigroup analysts wrote in a note to clients on Oct. 20.  Novo expects Victoza to win “a high proportion of new
prescriptions” in the U.S. in the coming two years given it
will be facing competition only from Byetta,  Brandgaard  said.  On the other hand, health-care reform is expected to shave
off close to 10 percent of U.S. sales and 3 percent of European
sales in the 2010 and 2011 period,  Brandgaard  also said.  Novo also expanded its share buyback plan by 1 billion
kroner to 9.5 billion kroner, the company said today.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Frances Schwartzkopff  at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net 
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net 
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  