-- NRG Energy Inc. to Invest $300 Million in BrightSource Solar Energy Plant
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-10-27T11:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/nrg-energy-inc-to-invest-300-million-in-brightsource-solar-energy-plant.html
NRG Energy Inc. said it plans to
spend $300 million on BrightSource Energy Inc.’s planned 392-
megawatt solar thermal power station in Ivanpah, California.  NRG’s solar unit will be the “lead investor” in the
plant, the largest solar thermal power project in the world, the
Princeton, New Jersey-based company said today in a Business
Wire statement. It didn’t disclose the size of the stake it’s
taking. The cash will be spent over three years.  NRG is buying into a project that’s recieved a $1.4 billion
conditional commitment for a loan guarantee from the U.S.
Department of Energy. It also recievd 2- to 25-year power-
purchase agreements with Edison International and PG&E Corp, the
company said.  “Solar power is a cornerstone of our strategy to produce
and deliver clean, zero-emission products and services to
America’s growing number of clean energy consumers,” NRG Chief
Executive Officer  David Crane  said in the statement.  Construction of the plant has already begun, according to
NRG. Brightsource has said it plans to complete work in 2012.
The project will use pole-mounted mirrors, or heliostats, to
reflect the sun’s rays to boilers mounted on top of towers,
vaporizing the water inside with temperatures of than 1,000
degrees Fahrenheit (538 degrees Celsius). The steam produced
will be piped to a power-generating turbine.  Edison International’s Southern California Edison utility
in August won permission to buy 117 megawatts from the Ivanpah
solar plant being developed in California’s Mojave Desert by
closely held BrightSource.  PG&E was approved to buy 275 megawatts from the project. A
megawatt is enough power for about 800 typical U.S. homes,
according to the Energy Information Administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Martin  in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 