-- Obama Takes Policy Talk to `Daily Show' in Young Voter Outreach
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/obama-defends-administration-record-in-daily-show-outreach-to-youth-vote.html
President  Barack Obama  sat down
yesterday for an interview long on politics and policy, and
short on laughs, as he sought to reach out to younger voters by
appearing on “The Daily Show with  Jon Stewart ” less than a
week before congressional elections.  In a discussion that stuck closely to his campaign themes
of voter “frustration” with the slow economic recovery, Obama
and Stewart talked health-care policy and Senate procedure as
the president told the supportive crowd that change “is not
going to happen overnight.”  Obama defended his record, calling the health-care law that
he pushed through Congress “as significant a piece of
legislation as we’ve seen in this country’s history.”  “Over and over again we have moved forward an agenda that
is making a difference in people’s lives,” the president said
during the taping at the Harman Center for the Arts in downtown
Washington. The interview was broadcast last night on  Viacom
Inc. ’s Comedy Central cable channel.  “We have done an awful lot we talked about during the
campaign,” he said, while also saying that all the changes he
promised are “not going to happen overnight.”  Obama is trying to energize young, Hispanic and black
voters -- three constituencies crucial to his 2008 presidential
campaign -- on behalf of Democratic candidates for the House and
the Senate on the Nov. 2 ballot.  Key Constituencies  To that end, he has appeared at university rallies around
the country in recent weeks. He has also made several media
appearances in addition to “The Daily Show.” He spoke
with syndicated radio host Michael Smerconish earlier yesterday
and with the  Reverend Al Sharpton  on American Urban Radio
Networks Oct. 26. An interview with Spanish-language broadcaster
Univision Radio aired Oct. 25.  “The Daily Show” has averaged about 1.1 million viewers
aged 18 to 49 this year, according to Nielsen Co., and is one of
the most-watched late-night shows among viewers 18 to 34 years
of age.  “You’ve got a constituency of younger voters that watch
that show, and it’s a good place to go and reach them,” White
House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said at a briefing Oct. 26.
“The president hasn’t been shy about going to the places where
people are getting their information and trying to make his
case.”  Stewart is also more popular among Democrats and
independents than among Republicans, according to an Oct. 7-10
Bloomberg National Poll. The survey by Des Moines, Iowa-based
Selzer & Co. found that 43 percent of Democrats and independents
had a favorable view of Stewart, compared with 20 percent of
Republicans.  Economic Concerns  Obama told Stewart that, along with the health-care law,
his administration has made strides by enacting new financial
regulations and, though the economy isn’t growing fast enough,
averting an even worse financial crisis.  He discussed implementation of the health-care law, his
irritation with Senate filibusters that block legislation, the
way that drawing congressional district boundaries can prevent
competitive races, and the power of special interests.  Obama told the audience that his campaign slogan wasn’t
“change you can believe in, in 18 months,” but a set of
policies that will take time to fully put in place.  “My attitude is, if we’re making progress, step by step,
inch by inch, day by day, then we are being true to the spirit
of this campaign,” he said. “We’ve put a framework in place.”  Three Democrats  The president singled out three House Democrats by name for
votes they have taken in support of his agenda at the cost of
political support in their districts:  Tom Perriello  of Virginia,
 John Boccieri  of Ohio and  Betsy Markey  of Colorado. All three
are targeted by Republicans.  “They won in the big surge in 2008, they knew it was going
to be a tough battle,” Obama said. “My hope is that those
people are rewarded for taking those tough votes.”  The nonpartisan Cook Political Report projects that
Democrats may lose as many as 60 seats in the House of
Representatives. Republicans need to gain 39 to take control of
the chamber. Cook projects Republicans picking up as many as
nine seats in the Senate, one short of the number needed for a
majority.  One exchange during the show that was met with laughter
came when Stewart called on Obama to explain how his appointment
of  Lawrence H. Summers  to an administration post represented a
new direction for Washington, since Summers had held senior
positions in the administration of President  Bill Clinton .  ‘Heck of a Job’  “Larry Summers did a heck of a job,” Obama said,
prompting Stewart to reply, “You don’t want to use that phrase,
dude.”  Obama’s comment recalled President  George W. Bush ’s
endorsement of his emergency management chief during the
government’s initial response to Hurricane Katrina: “Brownie,
you’re doing a heck of a job.” The official,  Michael D. Brown ,
resigned within days of that statement.  This was Obama’s first visit to “The Daily Show” since
his inauguration. During the 2008 presidential campaign Obama
and his Republican rival,  John McCain , appeared on the show.  Obama and McCain also made cameos on NBC’s “Saturday Night
Live” during the presidential campaign, continuing a long line
of public officials and candidates who have appeared on comedy
shows, including then-presidential candidate  Richard Nixon ’s
appearance on NBC’s “Rowan & Martin’s  Laugh-In ” in 1968.  Since becoming president, Obama has appeared on both  Jay Leno ’s and  David Letterman ’s late-night talk shows, as well as
on the daytime ABC show “The View.”  Rally in Washington  Stewart is taping “The Daily Show” in Washington this
week in advance of his Oct. 30 rally on the National Mall. He is
promoting the rally as a “million moderate march” to counter
what he calls extreme rhetoric dominating the national political
discussion.  In their permit application with the National Park Service,
organizers said they expected about 60,000 people to attend,
according to Comedy Central senior vice president  Steve Albani .  Obama said during a Sept. 29 appearance in Richmond,
Virginia, that he was “amused” by plans for the rally and that
most voters are looking for “common sense” and “courtesy.”  The president is planning a final flurry of campaigning
Oct. 30 and 31 with stops in Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Illinois
and Ohio -- four states that Obama won in 2008 and where
Democratic candidates are in crucial races.  As he wrapped up his interview with Stewart, Obama called
on the audience to “go out there and vote Nov. 2.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  