-- Obama Donates $4.5 Million From Presidential Fund to Democrats
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-10-27T15:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/obama-donates-4-5-million-from-presidential-fund-to-democrats.html
President  Barack Obama , campaigning
for fellow Democrats in the final days before the midterm
election, has put his own money on the line.  Obama donated $4.5 million from his presidential campaign
account -- more than half of the money left over from his
record-setting fundraising -- to the three Democratic party
fundraising committees last month,  Federal Election Commission 
reports show.  Obama gave $1.5 million apiece to the Democratic National
Committee and the fundraising arms of the Senate and House
Democrats. The $4.5 million accounted for 94 percent of the
money his presidential committee spent between July 1 and Sept.
30 and represented more than half of the $8 million remaining as
of June 30 after raising a record $749 million for his
successful campaign for the White House.  The donations are in addition to the more than $19.4
million he has raised since the beginning of August for the
Democratic Party and its candidates for the 2010 elections.  The Democratic Party’s committees have outraised their
Republican counterparts, though spending by Republican-leaning
outside groups, most of which do not disclose their donors, has
offset that advantage.  Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, the 2008 Republican
presidential nominee, used leftover presidential funds to donate
$28,000 to Republicans running this year, including $2,000
apiece to Senate nominees  Joseph DioGuardi  in New York,  Carly Fiorina  in California and Joe Miller in Alaska. He also
transferred $1 million from his legal and accounting fund to the
National Republican Senatorial Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 