-- Obama's Solicitor General Told Fed Not to Appeal, Banks Say
-- B y   B o b   I v r y   a n d   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-10-27T18:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/obama-s-solicitor-general-told-fed-to-give-up-appeal-banks-say.html
The Obama Administration’s top
courtroom lawyer directed the Federal Reserve to drop its plan
to ask the Supreme Court to block the release of bank bailout
records, according to a legal brief filed by a group of the
biggest commercial banks.  The Fed did not join the Clearing House Association LLC, a
group of 20 banks, which appealed to the high court yesterday.
The banks hope to reverse a lower court ruling forcing
disclosure of Fed lending programs. Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News, sued the central bank for the information.  In papers filed with a federal appeals court in New York,
the Clearing House said the Fed had initially sought approval
from acting Solicitor General  Neal Katyal  to petition the
Supreme Court.  “The Clearing House was informed on October 22, 2010 -- two
business days ago -- that the solicitor general declined to
authorize” the appeal, the banks’ group said in the court
papers. Katyal declined to comment.  The revelation came in an emergency request by the Clearing
House to intervene in a similar case involving  News Corp. ’s Fox
News.  Bloomberg sued the Fed in 2008 after the central bank
refused to disclose names of recipients of emergency loans from
four programs in response to a request under the Freedom of
Information Act, or  FOIA . The Clearing House joined the Fed’s
defense of the suit after a U.S. District Court judge ruled in
Bloomberg’s favor in August 2009. In March, an appeals panel
upheld the lower court.  Essential Programs  The Fed’s emergency  programs , which were “essential
responses to the recent financial crisis,” would be harmed if
the central bank is forced to disclose lending records, the
Clearing House said in a statement yesterday. “Unless the
ruling is overturned by the U.S. Supreme Court, businesses and
individuals may decline to participate in these programs,
possibly impairing the federal government’s ability to act
effectively in times of crisis.”  The New York-based Clearing House, which has processed
payments among banks since 1853, includes  Bank of America  NA,
Bank of New York Mellon,  Citibank  NA, Deutsche Bank Trust Co.
Americas, HSBC Bank USA NA,  JPMorgan Chase Bank  NA, U.S. Bank NA
and  Wells Fargo Bank NA .  Fox News submitted a FOIA request after Bloomberg’s,
seeking information on more lending programs over a longer time
frame. Because Fox lost an initial judgment in U.S. District
Court, the Clearing House did not intervene in that case, said
Greg Berardi, a spokesman for the bank group.  Solicitor General  An appellate court remanded Fox’s case earlier this year.
Now that the Fed is no longer appealing Bloomberg’s case, the
bank group is trying to intervene in the Fox matter “to make
sure its appeal to the Supreme Court is not mooted by the
release of the same information to Fox,” Berardi said.  Katyal took over for  Elena Kagan  after President  Barack Obama  selected her to serve on the Supreme Court. Like most
federal agencies, the Fed must get approval from the solicitor
general before filing an appeal at the Supreme Court.  “The court gets about 8,000 petitions and takes only about
75 cases a year,” said  Gregory G. Garre , a former solicitor
general and now a Washington-based partner at Latham & Watkins
LLP. “If the solicitor general is seeking review, the odds the
court will agree to take the case go way up. The court takes the
large majority of the cases in which the government seeks
review.”  Jennifer R. Psaki , a White House spokeswoman, and  David Skidmore , a spokesman for the Fed, declined to comment.  The high court is already considering another dispute over
corporate privacy rights under FOIA. In that case, which centers
on a separate FOIA provision, the solicitor general is urging
the release of documents concerning  AT&T Inc. , the largest U.S.
phone company. Bloomberg News is among several media
organizations that have filed a brief in support of the
government’s position.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Ivry  in New York at   bivry@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 