-- Crude Oil Trades Near $82 as Investors Buy Commodities on Dollar Weakness
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-10-28T06:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/oil-trades-near-82-after-u-s-capital-goods-orders-decline-dollar-gains.html
Oil traded near $82 a barrel in New
York as a weakening dollar boosted investor demand for raw
materials and after a report showed U.S. gasoline stockpiles
fell by the most in a year.  Futures were little changed, after dropping 0.7 percent
yesterday, as the dollar declined versus 15 of its 16 major
counterparts. Economists expect the U.S. Federal Open Market
Committee, led by Chairman  Ben Bernanke , to announce a second
round of asset purchases when it meets next week. An Energy
Department report yesterday showed gasoline supplies in the U.S.,
the world’s largest oil consumer, plunged  unexpectedly  last week.  “Investors are sitting on the sidelines because they’re
waiting for next week’s FOMC meeting and the mid-term
elections,” said  Serene Lim , an energy and commodity strategist
at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Singapore. The
Energy Department report is “overall quite bullish,” she said.  Crude for December delivery was at $81.93 a barrel, down 1
cent, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange
at 2:50 p.m. Singapore time. Yesterday, the contract dropped 61
cents to $81.94. Futures are up 3.2 percent this year.  The dollar fell against the euro for the first time in
three days as Asian stocks gained amid optimism the global
recovery remains intact, damping demand for the greenback as a
refuge. The U.S. currency lost 0.5 percent to $1.3833 a euro.  “When you look at gold and oil, and to a lesser extent
copper, movements are related to the dollar,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in
Sydney.  Gasoline Supplies  U.S. gasoline stockpiles dropped 4.39 million barrels to
214.9 million in the week ended Oct. 22, the Energy Department
report showed. That’s the biggest decline since Oct. 9, 2009.
Supplies were  expected  to advance by 625,000 barrels, based on
the median estimate from 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Distillate fuel inventories, including heating oil and
diesel, declined 1.61 million barrels to 168.4 million, the
Energy Department said. They were projected to drop 1.5 million
barrels, the survey showed.  U.S. crude  stockpiles increased  5.01 million barrels to
366.2 million, the largest jump since July, the Energy
Department said. A 1 million-barrel build was forecast,
according to the survey.  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual pace
in the third quarter, up from a 1.7 percent rate in the previous
three months, based on the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
poll of economists before a Commerce Department report tomorrow.
The U.S. holds mid-term congressional elections on Nov. 2.  Brent crude for December settlement traded at $83.17, down
6 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
Yesterday, the contract fell 43 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $83.23.  Chart Resistance  Oil in New York is facing resistance at $81.74 a barrel,
setting the stage for prices to climb to $87 or fall to $78,
based on levels using Fibonacci analysis, according to energy
consultants Schork Group Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania.  Futures have settled above or below the 76.4 percent
retracement level of $81.74 a barrel for nine of the past 11
trading sessions, Schork Group President  Stephen Schork  said in
a report yesterday. Prices may push to the top of the Fibonacci
range at $87.15, near the highest price this year, or drop to
$78.40, depending on whether the Federal Reserve decides to buy
more government securities, a policy known as quantitative
easing.  “This is the textbook definition of sideways trading --
what are the markets waiting for?” Schork said in the report.
“We are waiting for the FOMC meeting and its implication for
the dollar before we place our bets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell in Singapore at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  