-- Oil Snaps Three-Day Rally on Crude Stockpiles, Dollar Strength
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-27T12:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/oil-snaps-three-day-rally-on-strengthening-dollar-rising-crude-stockpiles.html
Oil declined for the first time in
four days in New York on signs that U.S. crude supplies are
rising and as the dollar strengthened, curbing investor demand
for commodities.  Futures dropped as much as 1.2 percent before an Energy
Department report today that may show crude  inventories 
increased by 1 million barrels last week, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of analysts. The American Petroleum
Institute said yesterday stockpiles surged 6.4 million barrels,
the most since March. The dollar climbed against all except one
of its 16 most-traded peers.  “Demand can easily be met by the inventories,” said
 Tobias Merath , head of commodity research at Credit Suisse Group
AG in Zurich. “The upside is quite limited as we have high
spare production capacity and demand is lackluster in the
developed world.”  Crude for December delivery fell as much as $1.01 to $81.54
in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It
was at $81.68 at 1:17 p.m. London time. Brent crude for December
settlement fell as much as 95 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $82.71 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  The dollar advanced versus the euro and the yen after the
U.S. Conference Board said yesterday consumer confidence
rebounded in October from a seven-month low.  “Oil continues to react to dollar movements,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at National Australia
Bank Ltd. in Melbourne. “With seasonal maintenance and outages
at refineries, I’d expect to see some build in crude
stockpiles.”  Falling Gasoline Demand  The Energy Department report today at 10:30 a.m. in
Washington may show U.S. gasoline stockpiles  increased  by
625,000 barrels last week, according to the Bloomberg News
survey. The industry-funded API yesterday said supplies of the
motor fuel declined 1.8 million barrels.  U.S. gasoline consumption dropped 1.7 percent last week,
the biggest weekly slide since Sept. 10, according to MasterCard
Inc. Motorists bought an average 9.1 million barrels a day of
the fuel in the week ended Oct. 22, the second-largest payments
network company said yesterday in its SpendingPulse report.  Distillate fuel inventories, including heating oil and
diesel, decreased 1.5 million barrels last week, based on the
Bloomberg News survey. Supplies climbed 818,000 barrels,
according to yesterday’s API report. “We need a series of
draws, especially in distillates and crude, in order to see the
market tightening,” said Westmore. “Given the size of
distillate stocks at the moment, I’d expect refinery runs to
continue being weak.”  French Strikes  Labor unions were preparing for a new day of strikes and
protests tomorrow in France, where Parliament votes today on
President Nicolas Sarkozy’s pension bill to raise the minimum
retirement age to 62 from 60.  Industrial action across the country had forced nine of 11
refineries to shut, causing fuel shortages and disrupting
exports. A quarter of France’s refinery workers agreed to go
back to work after the French Senate passed the bill yesterday.  Yves le Goff, spokesman for UFIP, an industry group for
refineries, said today five plants are ready to resume
operations and are awaiting supplies of crude oil. Workers at
Total SA refineries in France are on strike today and production
remains halted, a company spokesman said by phone from Paris.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  