-- Iron Point Said to Buy Defaulted Moinian Debt Tied to New York's W Hotel
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/moinian-debt-in-manhattan-w-hotel-said-to-be-sold-to-private-equity-firm.html
Iron Point Titan Ventures LLC , a
real estate private-equity firm, bought defaulted debt tied to
downtown Manhattan’s W Hotel as funds seek distressed
opportunities, according to a person briefed on the transaction.  Joseph Moinian , the developer who has amassed a $4.4
billion property portfolio since 2001, defaulted on the $25
million mezzanine  loan  in October 2009 and was negotiating with
the servicer to rework terms, according to Real Capital
Analytics Inc. Iron Point purchased the W Downtown Hotel &
Residences debt at a discount last week, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the sale wasn’t public.  Investors have been acquiring so-called mezzanine loans as
property owners struggle with debt taken on before the real
estate decline. Holding subordinate debt gives investors the
option to take over if the borrower is unable to make payments.
Dubai World’s Istithmar unit lost control of the W New York
Union Square hotel, for example, to LEM, an affiliate of Lubert-
Adler Real Estate Funds, in a mezzanine foreclosure auction in
December.  “A brand-new property with a high-quality flag at a
discount in this city is bound to be a good investment for any
investor,” said  Ben Thypin , an analyst at Real Capital in New
York.  Gene McQuown , a managing director at Iron Point, declined
to comment. Eric Gerard, a spokesman for Moinian, had no
comment.  Iron Point, with offices in Washington, already owned a
separate, $40 million portion of mezzanine debt, the person
said. Mission Capital Advisors, a New York-based loan advisory
firm, managed the sale, according to the person.  Debt Load  Mezzanine loans are a form of higher-interest debt that’s
subordinate to a first mortgage. Unlike a mortgage, through
which the bank has a lien on the property itself, a mezzanine
loan is secured by a pledge of equity ownership in the borrowing
entity that bought the property.  LEM gained control of the W Union Square in the foreclosure
auction, and then put the hotel into bankruptcy in March. In
July, Host Hotels & Resorts Inc., as part of the settlement to
bankruptcy proceedings, bought the hotel in a partnership with
Istithmar World PJSC as a minority partner.  In August, an investor group led by  Bill Ackman  tried to
take control of Manhattan’s Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village
by buying $300 million of mezzanine debt for 15 cents on the
dollar.  The group scheduled a so-called mezzanine foreclosure that
could have put it in control of the legal entity that owns the
apartment complex and place it into bankruptcy, thwarting senior
lenders from foreclosing. A New York state judge halted the
Ackman venture’s plans.  Condo Suit  In addition to the $65 million in mezzanine debt, the W
Downtown is encumbered by a $245 million first mortgage
originated in part by a unit of Bonn-based Deutsche Postbank AG
in March 2007, according to Real Capital.  Three condominium buyers at the W Downtown earlier this
month sued Moinian, seeking a combined $665,000 in deposits back
after values fell and fewer than a third of units went into
contract.  The W Downtown, which opened in August, offers views of the
World Trade Center memorial and waterways, according to the
hotel  website . The lobby features a chandelier with 1,260
individually hung glass droplets, black mini-mosaic-tiled walls
and polished granite floors.  Guest beds feature 350-thread count Egyptian cotton sheets,
goose-down comforters and pillows. Bathroom “rainforest”
showers with frosted-glass walls are set against snakeskin
reflective porcelain tiles. Rates for the week of Nov. 8 start
at $599 plus charges and tax.  Purchases Rising  Hotel purchases are increasing faster than deals for office
buildings, shopping centers or any other type of U.S. commercial
property as rising occupancies and room rates benefit the
lodging industry. Sales of hotels jumped 136 percent in the
first half of 2010 from a year earlier, the biggest gain among
five commercial real estate categories tracked by Real Capital.  Hotel occupancies in the top 25 U.S. markets climbed to 65
percent this year through August from 61 percent a year earlier,
according to  Smith Travel Research Inc.  of Hendersonville,
Tennessee. The occupancy rate in New York, the best performer
among U.S. regions, was 80 percent.  SL Green Realty Corp., New York’s biggest office owner,
agreed earlier this week to provide financing to help Moinian
stave off a takeover of his 3 Columbus Circle tower.  Moinian, whose holdings include a stake in Chicago’s Willis
Tower, the tallest building in the U.S., restructured about $550
million of debt in January for three lower Manhattan buildings.  The Moinian Group renegotiated $340 million of mortgage and
mezzanine loans for 180 Maiden Lane, a 1.1 million-square-foot
(102,000-square-meter) skyscraper, according to two people
familiar with the transaction. It also obtained a new $130
million first mortgage on the Ocean Residences apartments and a
loan extension on 17 Battery Place, a 22-story office property.  For Related News and Information:
Stories on hotel industry: {NI LOD}
S&P Hotels Index Year-to-Date Return: {S15HOTL <Index> MRR 10}
Stories on New York hotels: {TNI NYC LOD}  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
 Nadja Brandt  in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  