-- Hong Kong Luxury Home Prices Surpass `97 Peak, Flag More Curbs
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-10-27T09:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/hong-kong-s-luxury-home-prices-surpass-1997-peak-signaling-further-curbs.html
Hong Kong luxury home prices have
exceeded the previous peak of 1997, fueling speculation the
government may introduce further steps to prevent the housing
bubble from bursting.  Prices of apartments with an area of at least 100 square
meters (1,076 square feet) are 13.8 percent higher than in the
third quarter of 1997, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said in
a  slide presentation  posted on its website yesterday.  Measures introduced by the government this year, including
higher mortgage down payments and increased land supply, failed
to stem an almost 50 percent  surge  in home prices since early
2009. The  Hang Seng Property Index , which tracks the city’s
seven biggest developers, climbed 11 percent this year,
outpacing a 6 percent gain in the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  “The government must do more” to curb home prices in the
near term, said  Nicole Wong , a Hong Kong-based analyst at CLSA
Ltd. “Things like increasing land supply have very limited
impact on current price levels. The focus should be more about
curbing lending.”  The HKMA on Aug. 13 raised down-payment ratios on
investment properties and any homes with a value of HK$12
million or more in a bid to contain home values.  The property gauge fell 1 percent at the 4 p.m. close of
trading in Hong Kong today.  Land Sales  The central bank should consider increasing down payments
for properties with a value of as low as HK$8 million to curb
speculation, Wong said. Homes with a value of HK$12 million
account for less than 5 percent of the total market, she said.  The government, the main supplier of land for development
in the city, partially resumed regular land auctions this year
after they were halted in 2004 to support falling home prices.
Since Aug. 13, the government has initiated two sites for
auction, though was forced to withdraw one in the Chai Wan
district after it failed to draw any bids from developers.  Hong Kong home prices more than doubled from a trough in
2003 on a recovering  economy , low interest rates, and an influx
of mainland Chinese buyers whose travel restrictions to the city
have been gradually relaxed. Prior to 2003, home values went
through a six-year slump that began shortly after the Asian
financial crisis hit in 1997, the height of the previous bubble.  “This means the government measures haven’t really hit the
speculators where it hurts,” said  Francis Lun , general manager
at Hong Kong-based Fulbright Securities Ltd. “To bring down
home prices we need something radical, such as a more drastic
increase in land supply.”  Mainland Buyers  Mainland Chinese buyers accounted for a third of new luxury
home purchases in Hong Kong in the first half, up from about 20
percent in the previous six months, according to  Centaline
Property Agency Ltd.   Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd ., Hong Kong’s biggest developer
and the world’s largest by market capitalization, said Oct. 24
it sold about 300 houses in a luxury project in Sheung Shui
since sales began early October. As many as 60 percent of the
buyers were from the mainland or Hong Kong executives who base
their businesses across the border, the company said.  The government will stop offering residency to foreigners
who buy properties in the city and will begin a rent-to-buy
program for first-time buyers, Chief Executive Donald Tsang said
in his annual policy address Oct. 13.  Prices of mass residential units, defined as those with
areas less than 100 square meters, are still 10 percent lower
than the 1997 peak, the HKMA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  