-- Honohan Says Ireland's Fiscal Deterioration Almost the Worst in the World
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-10-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/honohan-says-ireland-s-fiscal-slide-worse-than-most-update1-.html
Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said tougher action is required to reduce the nation’s
budget deficit after a fiscal deterioration “worse than almost
any other country” during the financial crisis.  The decline partly reflects the fact that the “home-grown
property bubble had risen further and so has fallen further than
most,” Honohan, who is also a member of the European Central
Bank governing council, said in a speech in Dublin late
yesterday. The government deficit will now be subject to
“intensified corrective action,” he said.  Ireland’s government on Oct. 26 announced plans to seek 15
billion euros ($21 billion) in spending cuts and tax increases
through 2014, twice what it previously planned. It aims to lower
the deficit to the European Union limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product in four years from about 12 percent of GDP this
year, or 32 percent when bank-bailout costs are included.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said yesterday the plan will
be “frontloaded” and include “significant” measures in 2011
to restore investor confidence and lower borrowing costs. He
will announce details of the plan in mid-November, he said.  The  yield  premium on Ireland’s 10-year debt over German
bunds, Europe’s benchmark, widened to 421 basis points yesterday
from 393 basis points the previous day. It reached a record 454
basis points on Sept. 29.  ‘Sharp’ Adjustment  Answering questions on Irish bonds after his speech,
Honohan said he thinks they are a “great buy, at current
prices.”  Ireland’s bonds have plunged this year, pushing the yield
on the country’s 10-year debt up about 180 basis points to 6.7
percent.  Honohan also said that Ireland’s banks cannot be wholly
blamed for the soaring budget deficit. The fiscal problems in
part relate to Ireland’s reliance during its economic boom on
tax revenue “dependent to an exceptional degree on profitable
economic conditions, high transactions in the property market
and asset price appreciation,” he said.  “A sharp fiscal adjustment would have been needed anyway -
- even if the Anglo and Nationwide had not lost quite so much
money,” he said at the event hosted by the Certified Public
Accountants Group, referring to  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  and Irish
Nationwide Building Society.  Honohan said the central bank will conduct prudential
capital reviews on lenders on an annual basis.  “This will allow capital requirements to be kept
consistent with evolving information on future economic and
financial developments, including the performance of the
residential mortgage portfolio,” he said, adding that the
reviews will take account of the emerging Basel III capital
rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  