-- Option Gets $48 Million From China's Huawei, Drops Anti-Dumping Complaint
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-10-27T11:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/option-gets-48-million-from-china-s-huawei-drops-anti-dumping-complaint.html
Option NV , the unprofitable Belgian
modem maker, will drop its anti-dumping and anti-subsidy
complaints against Chinese vendors after Huawei Technologies Co.
agreed to take a software license and buy an Option unit.  Huawei, based in Shenzhen, will pay 27 million euros ($37
million) to license Option’s connection manager software for one
year and agreed to buy the Leuven, Belgium-based modem maker’s
semicoductor unit M4S for about 8 million euros, the two
companies said today in a joint statement. Huawei and Option
will also study setting up a joint research center in Belgium.  Option will ask the European Union to close its inquiries
into whether Chinese makers of wireless modems sell them in the
27-nation bloc below cost, whether they receive trade-distorting
government aid and whether there’s a need for possible
quantitative limits on EU imports of the devices worldwide.  The case marked the first time the EU opened simultaneous
dumping, subsidy and safeguard investigations in support of a
single European producer, signaling a shift in focus of European
trade curbs against China from traditional goods such as shoes
and bicycles to high-tech telecommunications.  “We’ve had tremendous support from the European Commission
and I believe this complaint worked as an eye-opener for the
Chinese,” Option Chief Financial Officer  John Patrick Ziegler 
said in a telephone interview. He said Option will keep selling
data cards and USB sticks for now and focus on security
solutions, built-in devices and software to revive  sales growth .  Belgian Government  Option climbed as much as 62 percent in Brussels  trading ,
the biggest intraday gain since June 2009, and increased 22
cents to 72 cents at 12:51 p.m. local time, giving the maker of
wireless modems a market value of 58.6 million euros.  “The commission is now examining the implications of the
withdrawals,” EU trade spokesman  John Clancy  said by e-mail.
“In the past, the commission has accepted such withdrawals and
has consequently terminated the investigation without
measures.”  The probe into whether to impose quantitative restrictions
on EU imports of wireless modems worldwide results from a
request by the Belgian government. It would be up to the Belgian
government rather than Option to withdraw this request for
safeguard measures.  “Option has informed the commission that it has asked the
Belgian government to withdraw the request for the imposition of
safeguard measures,” Clancy said. “The Belgian government,
however, has not yet informed the commission whether it will
comply with Option’s request.”  Wireless Modems  The anti-dumping and anti-subsidy inquiries involved the
threat of punitive duties on Chinese vendors. Huawei and  ZTE
Corp. , which is also based in Shenzhen, control 95 percent of
the European market for the wireless modems covered by the trade
probes, which is worth about 1.5 billion euros a year, according
to Option. Average prices for Option’s devices dropped 30
percent last year, following a 39 percent slide in 2008.  The Belgian modem maker, which hasn’t reported a  profit 
since the first quarter of 2008, has cut its  workforce  to 250
from 679 at the end of 2008 and had 7.65 million euros of cash
and short-term investments left at the end of June after raising
20.2 million euros in a stock sale to existing shareholders in
December.  “Saved by the Chinese,”  Nico Melsens , an analyst at KBC
Securities NV in Brussels, wrote in an investor note. “This
deal solves Option’s  liquidity  problems, providing them with a
lot more time to further develop the new strategy focused on
value-added products.” Melsens raised his recommendation on
Option to “hold” from “sell.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Stearns  in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 