-- Oracle Says It Will Produce Evidence of Apotheker Wrongdoing
-- B y   J e r a n   W i t t e n s t e i n   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-10-27T17:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/oracle-says-will-produce-evidence-of-ex-sap-manager-apotheker-wrongdoing.html
Oracle Corp.  Chief Executive Officer
 Larry Ellison  said his company plans to produce evidence that
Hewlett-Packard Co.’s incoming CEO was involved in an effort to
steal Oracle software while at former employer  SAP AG .  “A few weeks ago I accused HP’s new CEO,  Leo Apotheker , of
overseeing an industrial espionage scheme centering on the
repeated theft of massive amounts of Oracle’s software,”
Ellison said in a statement yesterday. Oracle intends to present
evidence at a trial that starts Nov. 1, Ellison said.  HP said in response that Oracle is attempting to harass its
new CEO, who had limited knowledge of the case. SAP, which is
fighting the amount of damages Oracle is seeking in a 2007
lawsuit, said today that Ellison is using the trial as part of
his personal crusade against HP. Ellison hired former HP CEO
 Mark Hurd  as a president last month and chided HP’s board for
how it handled Hurd’s departure.  “Oracle had ample opportunity to question Leo during his
sworn deposition in October 2008 and chose not to include him as
a trial witness until he was named CEO of HP,” HP said in a
statement.  “Given Leo’s limited knowledge of and role in the matter,
Oracle’s last-minute effort to require him to appear live at
trial is no more than an effort to harass him and interfere with
his duties and responsibilities as HP’s CEO,” HP said.  Damages Sought  Apotheker is scheduled to begin as HP’s CEO the same day as
court  proceedings  get under way to determine damages in the case
involving TomorrowNow, the now defunct SAP subsidiary accused of
stealing codes and documents to help it win Oracle customers.  Oracle is seeking damages of $2.15 billion, Oracle’s
attorney said in an Aug. 5 court filing. The company also wants
SAP to pay an additional $288 million for its profit from
infringement, according to the filing.  SAP expects to have to pay “tens of millions” of dollars in
damages, SAP Co-President  Bill McDermott  said in an interview
today. McDermott said he expects to be in court on Nov. 2.  A jury and judge will decide any amount that SAP has to
pay. SAP has said there was inappropriate downloading of
Oracle’s support documents.  SAP has asked the judge who will preside over the case to
prevent people involved from talking to the media, saying it
could influence jurors.  ‘Crusade’ Against HP  “This is more evidence of Oracle’s true motivation to use
the trial as part of Ellison’s personal crusade against HP,”
 Christoph Liedtke , a spokesman at SAP, said in a telephone
interview today. “SAP remains focused on the core issue of
determining reasonable levels of compensation in this case for
Oracle.”  Ellison said in his statement that a major portion of the
theft occurred while Apotheker was CEO of SAP and HP Chairman
 Ray Lane  may try to keep him from testifying in the trial.  “If HP keeps Leo Apotheker far from HP headquarters we
cannot subpoena him to testify at that trial,” Ellison wrote.  Oracle spokeswoman  Deborah Hellinger  didn’t respond to a
voice mail seeking comment beyond the statement.  Lane, a managing partner at venture-capital firm  Kleiner
Perkins Caufield  & Byers, starts as HP’s non-executive chairman
the same day. The appointments were announced Sept. 30.  Lane said earlier this month that TomorrowNow wasn’t under
Apotheker’s direct supervision and that Oracle is trying to draw
him into its lawsuit.  Oracle fell 15 cents to $28.48 at 12:53 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares had gained 17 percent
this year before today.  HP , down 17 percent this year, fell 94
cents to $42.01.  Apotheker Succeeds Hurd  Apotheker resigned as CEO of German software maker SAP in
February after the company didn’t extend his contract. He
oversaw SAP’s first revenue decline since 2003.  Hurd resigned as HP’s chairman and CEO following a company
investigation that determined he violated its standards of
business conduct. An investigation of sexual harassment
allegations found inaccurate expense reports filed by Hurd or on
his behalf that concealed a personal relationship with the event
organizer and marketing contractor  Jodie Fisher .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeran Wittenstein at 
 jwittenstei1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 