-- Orders for U.S. Durable Goods Likely Climbed, Boosting Growth
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-probably-rose-as-business-investment-climbed.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
probably climbed in September by the most in five months, a sign
business investment is underpinning the recovery, economists
said before a report today.  Bookings  for goods meant to last at least three years
increased 2 percent, according to the median forecast of 76
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may show
sales of  new houses  rose last month to a 300,000 annual rate,
hovering near a record low.  Rising profits at companies from  Boeing Co.  to  Intel Corp. ,
in part reflecting improving sales  abroad , may lead to more
gains in business spending on machinery and software. At the
same time, a pickup in hiring remains the missing element in the
emerging rebound from the worst recession since the 1930s, one
reason why housing will probably continue to languish.  “Businesses still have a lot of catching up to do in terms
of investing in equipment and software,” said  Joel Naroff ,
president of Naroff Economic Advisors Inc. in Holland,
Pennsylvania. “While we’re going to moderate from the break-
neck pace we saw earlier, it’ll still be a strong part of the
recovery.”  The Commerce Department’s report on goods orders is due at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Survey estimates ranged from no change
to an increase of 8 percent.  At 10 a.m., the Commerce Department will issue its figures
on new-house sales. Economists’  forecasts  ranged from 270,000 to
330,000. May’s 282,000 pace was the weakest since records began
in 1963.  Boeing Orders  Demand for durable goods was probably led by a jump in the
transportation category, which is often volatile. Boeing, the
world’s largest aerospace company, said it received orders for
117 aircraft last month, up from 10 in August. Industry data may
not correlate precisely with the government statistics on a
month-to-month basis.  Chicago-based Boeing this month raised its full-year profit
forecast on rising demand, and said it is considering boosting
production.  Honeywell International Inc. , a maker of car
turbochargers and aircraft parts, also lifted its annual
earnings projection.  A pickup in auto demand is also helping manufacturers.
Vehicle sales are running at a 12 million annual rate in
October,  Mark Fields ,  Ford Motor Co. ’s president of the
Americas, said this week. The rate would be the highest since
the government’s “cash for clunkers” incentive boosted demand
in August 2009.  “We continue to see good, steady improvement,” Fields
said on Oct. 25 at an event in Sterling Heights, Michigan.  Sustained Gains  Bookings for durable goods  excluding transportation 
equipment rose 0.5 percent, according to the survey median. It
would be the fourth gain in the past five months.  Intel, the world’s biggest chipmaker, said fourth-quarter
sales may exceed some analysts’ estimates and it plans to spend
as much as $8 billion on U.S. factory upgrades, helping create
800 to 1,000 manufacturing jobs.  “Business investment in equipment and software should grow
at a reasonably rapid pace next year,” Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said in an Oct. 15 speech in Boston. The overall
recovery is “less vigorous” than policy makers would like, he
said.  The Fed meets on Nov. 2-3 to decide on what economists and
investors expect will be a plan to boost growth by restarting
large-scale securities purchases.  Manufacturing Shares  Growing orders help explain why manufacturing shares are
rallying. The Standard & Poor’s  Supercomposite Machinery Index ,
which includes companies like Caterpillar Inc. and Deere & Co.,
is up 28 percent so far this year. The broader  S&P 500  Index is
up 6.3 percent, and the Supercomposite  Homebuilding gauge  is
down 8.1 percent.  Housing remains restrained by mounting foreclosures as
joblessness hovers near 10 percent. Eviction moratoria at banks,
including JPMorgan Chase & Co., may also cause delays that will
further postpone a recovery.  “The U.S. economy needs to improve, and we’ve got to see
some improvement in job creation” before housing can recover,
 Larry Sorsby , chief financial officer at Hovnanian Enterprises
Inc., the largest homebuilder in New Jersey, said during an Oct.
7 conference call.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  