-- Capital Goods Orders Decrease as Investment Cools
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-27T16:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/orders-for-u-s-capital-goods-fall-signaling-less-investment.html
Bookings for capital goods fell in
September, signaling a slowdown in U.S. business investment that
gives the Federal Reserve more reason to ease policy next week.  Non-military  orders  for equipment like computers and
machinery meant to last at least three years and excluding
airplanes dropped 0.6 percent after a 4.8 percent gain in August
that was smaller than previously estimated, figures from
Commerce Department showed today in Washington. Another report
showed sales of new houses hovered near a record low last month.  The reports point to an economy that is struggling to gain
speed more than a year into a recovery from the worst recession
since the 1930s. Stocks,  commodity prices  and Treasury
securities fell on speculation a renewed program of Fed large-
scale asset purchases may not be large enough to spur growth.  “Areas in the economy that were quite hot, like capital
spending, have begun to cool and areas that were cold, like
housing, have been stabilizing,” said  Zach Pandl , an economist
at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York. “The
economy is not growing fast enough for the Fed’s liking.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.9 percent to
1,175.23 at 12:17 p.m. in New York as shares of Alcoa Inc. and
Exxon Mobil Corp. fell, mimicking decreases in metals and crude
oil prices. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note,
which moves inversely to process, rose to 2.68 percent from 2.64
percent late yesterday.  Total orders  for durable goods climbed 3.3 percent last
month, led by a doubling in aircraft demand. The gain exceeded
the 2 percent increase projected by the median forecast of 76
economists in the Bloomberg News survey. Estimates ranged from
no change to an increase of 8 percent.  Effect on GDP  Shipments  of non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
used in calculating gross domestic product, increased 0.4
percent after a 1.3 percent gain in August that was smaller than
previously estimated.  Over the past three months, those shipments climbed at a 9
percent annual pace, down from a 17 jump in the three months
through June and indicating business investment cooled last
quarter. Last quarter’s GDP report showed spending on equipment
and software climbed at a 25 percent annual pace, the biggest
gain since 1983, according to Commerce Department data.  Orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft are
considered a proxy for future business investment. They
increased at a 5.5 percent pace last quarter compared with a 31
percent jump from April through June, pointing to further
deceleration in business spending in coming months.  Imminent ‘Weakness’  “We’re looking at weakness in capital spending for at
least the next couple of quarters,” said  Tom Porcelli , senior
economist at RBC Capital Markets Corp. in New York, who had
predicted a drop in demand. “Companies are unwilling to deploy
the enormous amount of cash they have as there’s skepticism
about the economic backdrop. We continue to exist in a slow-
growth environment.”  U.S. companies are holding almost $1 trillion of cash,
according to a report yesterday by Moody’s Investors Service
that shows borrowers are still concerned about the recovery.  “Many of our U.S. markets remained weak as a result of the
slow recovery in the U.S. economy,”  Thomas Linebarger , chief
operating officer of  Cummins Inc. , said during a teleconference
with analysts yesterday. He said the company doesn’t “expect to
see any meaningful improvement until 2011” in the U.S.  At the same time, Linebarger said business in emerging
markets for the Columbus, Indiana-based maker of diesel truck
engines “has come back much faster than we had forecast.”  Housing Outlook  Housing, the industry that precipitated the recession,
remains in the doldrums. Sales of  new homes  rose 6.6 percent in
September to a 307,000 annual rate that exceeded the  median
forecast  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from
the Commerce Department also showed today. Demand is hovering
near the 282,000 pace reached in May that was the lowest since
records began in 1963.  A lack of jobs is preventing Americans from gaining the
confidence needed to buy, overshadowing declines in borrowing
costs and prices that are making houses more affordable. At the
same time, foreclosure moratoriums at some banks, including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., signal the industry will redouble efforts
to tighten lending rules, which may depress housing even more.  “These are still very low levels,” said  Jim O’Sullivan ,
global chief economist at MF Global Ltd. in New York.
“Ultimately, a significant recovery in housing will depend on a
clear pickup in employment.”  Prices Climb  The median price of a new house increased 3.3 percent from
September 2009 to $223,800, today’s report showed.  Purchases rose in three of four regions, led by a 61
percent jump in the Midwest. Sales fell 9.9 percent in the West.  There were 204,000 new houses on the market at the end of
September, the fewest since July 1968.  Homebuilders say labor-market conditions will be the
biggest factor in spurring or delaying a recovery.  “The U.S. economy needs to improve, and we’ve got to see
some improvement in job creation,”  Larry Sorsby  , chief
financial officer at  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. , the largest
homebuilder in New Jersey, said during an Oct. 7 conference
call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  