-- Morgan Stanley Tops Advisers on Asian Financial Deals With SGX
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-10-27T02:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/morgan-stanley-tops-advisers-on-asian-financial-mergers-with-sgx-purchase.html
Morgan Stanley moved to the top spot
among advisers on financial mergers and acquisitions in the
Asia-Pacific region after working for  Singapore Exchange Ltd . on
its $8.3 billion offer for  ASX Ltd .  Singapore Exchange’s Oct. 25 announcement that it will buy  Australia ’s main stock-exchange operator lifted Morgan Stanley
to first from fourth, its best showing since 2005, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The New York-based bank ranked No. 4
advising on financial mergers last year, trailing Nomura
Holdings Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The Singapore Exchange transaction “is a significant M&A
opportunity both because it’s a large deal and also because it’s
financial services,” said Neil Katkov, Asia head of financial
industry research at consulting firm Celent. Katkov said there
will be more M&A among exchanges, which he called “a very
cutting-edge area that requires specific expertise to properly
evaluate the merger.”  While the proposed cash and stock offer is meeting
objections from shareholders and Australian politicians, the
deal would mark the first cross-border transaction between two
Asian equity bourses. The value of the bid has fallen to $8
billion as of yesterday’s close as Singapore Exchange’s stock
price dropped.  London-based Prudential Plc’s $35.5 billion agreement in
March to buy  American International Group Inc .’s AIA unit
unraveled in the second quarter, causing a shift in global M&A
adviser rankings.  Share Drop  Ronald Ong, who was made Morgan Stanley’s CEO for  Southeast
Asia  in 2004 after rejoining the bank in 1998 from Deutsche Bank
AG, and the firm’s regional financial institutions group worked
with Singapore Exchange on the offer, people with knowledge of
the matter said.  ASX fell 7.4 percent in Sydney trading yesterday, 16
percent below Singapore Exchange’s A$46.18 per-share offer, on
speculation the attempt to create the world’s fifth-largest
listed bourse will fail. The stock fell another 1.7 percent
today as of 1:12 p.m. in Sydney while Singapore Exchange rose
2.4 percent.  Morgan Stanley has advised on 18 mergers and acquisitions
between financial companies in Asia-Pacific this year. The deals
include AIG’s sale of its two Japanese units to  Prudential
Financial Inc . for $4.8 billion, the region’s second-biggest
cross-border transaction between financial companies in 2010,
according to Bloomberg data.  The U.S. bank advised  Thanachart Bank Pcl  on its $2.14
billion purchase of  Siam City Bank Pcl  in  Thailand . It’s also
advising Axa SA on the sale of its China insurance business, a
deal that may be announced before year-end, said people with
knowledge of the matter.  AIA Offering  The Axa deal is being handled by Marie-Soazic Geffroy
Dernoncourt, a 12-year Morgan Stanley veteran and Asia head of
insurance investment banking, who also worked on last week’s
$17.8 billion initial public offering of  AIA Group Ltd . in Hong
Kong. Morgan Stanley also helped arrange share sales by Samsung
Life Insurance Co. and Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., two of
this year’s biggest IPOs.    UBS AG  jumped to second this year in advising on financial
M&A in Asia-Pacific after advising ASX on the deal, Bloomberg
data show.    Morgan Stanley ’s relationship with Singapore Exchange
traces back to 2007, when its team in  New York  and  Europe 
advised Magnus Bocker, then chief executive officer of
Stockholm-based OMX AB, on a $3.7 billion merger with Nasdaq
Stock Market Inc. Bocker, 49, was appointed president at the
combined  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc ., a position he held until he
joined the Singapore bourse in December.  Other Targets  Derek Stanwell, a Morgan Stanley managing director based in
Sydney; Simon Herrmann, a Singapore-based executive director
focusing on Southeast Asia banking; and Willard Mclane, head of
Morgan Stanley’s Asia-Pacific financial institutions group, were
involved in the deal, people with knowledge of the matter said.
All four bankers have been with the firm for more than a decade.  The Morgan Stanley team has been discussing M&A
opportunities and strategic initiatives with  Singapore Exchange 
for at least two years, and had proposed different acquisition
targets apart from ASX, the people said. The plan to bid for ASX
resurfaced and accelerated early this year after Bocker took
over from Hsieh Fu Hua in December, they said.  Since Bocker took charge, Singapore Exchange has announced
initiatives to bolster the bourse’s position as an Asian capital
markets hub. The exchange on Oct. 22 started trading 19 American
Depositary Receipts of Chinese companies to boost volume.  The bourse announced plans in June to invest S$250 million
in a trading system that it said will be the world’s fastest
when it goes live in 2011. The following month, Singapore
Exchange and the London Metal Exchange said they will introduce
cash-settled metals-futures contracts by the first quarter of
next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  