-- Horse-Assisted Therapy Can Rein in Problems, Aid Abused Steeds
-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/horse-assisted-therapy-can-rein-in-problems-aid-abused-steeds-commentary.html
I recently watched a horse turn a
noisy gaggle of fourth-graders into an attentive flock of little
angels.  I was in Carmel Valley, California, where an outfit called
 Horsepower  uses the animals to teach relationship skills to
schoolchildren. Adults are also benefiting from equine-assisted
therapy. The horse’s impressive size and keen instincts seem
almost magically to soothe humans.  “Horses are so big and so magnificent that working with
them totally discombobulates the person,” says psychiatric
nurse Nancy Magnelli. “It brings all the normal interactions to
a standstill.”  Therapists use horses to treat depression, anxiety and
attention-deficit and post-traumatic-stress disorders, among
other maladies. Our equine friends are also assisting with
marriage and parent counseling and corporate team-building. In
California alone, there are about 170 programs certified under
the  Equine Assisted Growth and Learning Association , a nonprofit
that brings therapists and the horse set together.  “You can’t work with a creature that large and maintain
your normal facade of defenses,” says Magnelli, whose husband,
Robert, is a psychologist and head of Horsepower.  Imposing size is only part of the story, however. Having
evolved as prey animals, horses are extremely receptive to
emotive signals from creatures near them. Since they are also
intelligent herd animals, they know social relationships.  Path and Obstacles  In a typical session, a client (or patient) constructs
within an outdoor arena a path and obstacles that together serve
as a metaphor for goals. The client either walks alongside or
leads the horse, in which case the rope is also a metaphor for
something.  The horse will often pick up on a client’s nonverbal cues.
Did the horse leave the path at the obstacle symbolizing
“family,” for example? The therapist will later discuss with the
client the implications of the horse’s behavior.  “Everything we do is designed to reflect something that’s
going on in a client’s life,” says Lynn Thomas, co-founder and
director of the Equine Assisted Growth and Learning Association.
“The power of the therapy is in the meaning the client puts on
it.”  The field is still young, but Magnelli says he has
collected statistically significant data that demonstrate its
efficacy.  Economy’s Impact  While the innovative therapy is taking off, some programs
are stifled by a tepid economy. Sharon Pohl has a ranch in
 Soquel, California , with 23 acres of stables, paddocks and 14
horses. Her annual operating costs run around $100,000, and she
has found that lately it’s been impossible to draw adequate
funding, much of which comes from private donors.  “We started out as a horse-rescue and equine-assisted
therapy program and mentoring program for kids,” says Pohl.
That was 11 years ago. These days she has put the therapy on
hold and is getting by offering traditional riding lessons.  Some of Pohl’s biggest donors were retired bankers and
doctors; more than one of them lost fortunes thanks to  Bernard Madoff .  Horse therapy can be more expensive than traditional
methods. Among other things, it requires two professionals -- an
equine practitioner and a mental-health specialist. Horses need
space, lots of food, and health care that can be as expensive as
that of humans.  The therapists I spoke with say the expenses are real but
misleading. “It’s actually cheaper in the long run,” says
Thomas. “I do it because it works, and it usually works faster
than what we see in the office.”  Life After Racing  A sluggish economy notwithstanding, her group says that
equine-assisted therapy and learning programs are growing.
Within its network alone, there are more than 500 clinical
treatment programs practiced by 35,000 members in 38 countries.  Thomas’s group coordinates with the  Thoroughbred Retirement
Foundation , another nonprofit that rescues former race horses
and gets them ready for adoption at places like the Magnellis’
or Pohl’s. There is opportunity for synergy here. Horses that
outlive their usefulness on the track or fall victim to their
owner’s hard times can have a second life on a ranch that
practices horse-centered therapy or teaching.  “We provide a niche for horses,” says Thomas. “We let
them be themselves.”  ( Mike Di Paola  writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Di Paola at  mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 