-- Banks `Want to Sit Down' With States to Discuss Foreclosures
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/mortgage-lenders-may-meet-with-states-over-foreclosure-probes-this-week.html
A 50-state task force investigating
U.S. foreclosure practices may meet with lenders as early as
this week, less than a month after  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Bank
of America Corp.  suspended some home seizures.  “We’ve had several conference calls with major lenders,”
Colorado Attorney General  John Suthers  said in an interview,
declining to specify which ones. “The banks want to sit down
with the attorneys general. These meetings are being set up,”
said Suthers, whose office is a member of the executive
committee of the task force.  All 50 states on Oct. 13 announced a coordinated inquiry
into whether banks and loan servicers used false documents and
signatures to justify hundreds of thousands of foreclosures. The
probe came after  JPMorgan  and Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC
mortgage unit said they would stop repossessions in 23 states
where courts supervise home seizures and Bank of America froze
foreclosures nationwide.  At least 17 states, including Colorado, are conducting
separate investigations to determine whether state laws were
broken. Some began investigations months before the coordinated
nationwide probe was announced. States have asked lenders to
halt foreclosures, requested documents and sought better home-
loan modification procedures. Ohio’s attorney general has sued.  “An attorney general will always have a responsibility to
deal with their own state laws and statutes that they think
might be violated,” said  James E. Tierney , director of Columbia
Law School’s National State Attorneys General Program in New
York. “If the target of the investigation may have done the
same thing in several states, then it becomes cost effective and
more efficient to work with colleagues in several states.”  State Laws  Each state has its own foreclosure laws, and the lender’s
behavior may have differed from state to state or even county to
county, which makes reaching a global settlement difficult,
Tierney said.  “Our ability to act on behalf of consumers depends in part
on the intricacies of state law,” said Janet Mills, Maine’s
attorney general. “It is important for the AGs to share what
they find out with each other, to monitor what is happening in
other states, including the responses from financial entities,”
she wrote in an e-mail yesterday.  Colorado’s Suthers said it’s too early to speculate how the
probes will end.  “We are cooperating with the attorneys general on their
inquiries,”  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for Detroit-based  Ally ,
said in a phone interview yesterday. She declined to comment on
any specifics or any possible meetings with attorneys general.  Meeting Today  Members of the attorneys general executive committee have
met by phone and “have begun the process of communicating with
servicers,” Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney
General  Tom Miller , said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “There is a meeting scheduled for Thursday,” Greenwood
said. “It would not be appropriate to disclose the meeting
participants, the mechanics of the meeting, or the nature of the
planned discussions.”  Bank of America was scheduled to meet with state officials
today to discuss the foreclosure process, the Associated Press
reported yesterday, citing a person briefed on the matter whom
it didn’t name.  “We have been cooperating with the attorneys general and
continue to have dialogue and share information with these
important stakeholders,”  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank, said in an e-mailed
statement. She declined to comment on the timing of any
meetings.  Tom Kelly , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment.  Corrections Needed  “The 50-state investigation is not seeking a nationwide
moratorium on all foreclosures,” said Washington Attorney
General  Rob McKenna , who is also on the task force’s executive
committee. “At the same time, foreclosures done improperly have
to be corrected. It’s not permissible to violate state law to
expedite a foreclosure.”  The states may push for better loan-modification procedures
to address consumer complaints, McKenna said. Some homeowners
who sought modifications weren’t offered revised payments, ended
with the same or higher payments, or were foreclosed on during
the process, according to these complaints.  “Loan modifications may be a significant part of the
solution,” McKenna said. “If you keep homes out of
foreclosure, they don’t depress real estate values.”  Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray  sued Ally Oct. 6,
claiming its GMAC mortgage unit violated state consumer law and
committed fraud by filing false affidavits in foreclosure
proceedings. Cordray yesterday filed a friend-of-the-court brief
in another case arguing that an Ohio court can vacate a
foreclosure because of affidavit irregularities.  GMAC Lawsuit  Maine’s Mills said she may join a class action filed
against GMAC on behalf of homeowners in that state alleging
abuse of process and fraud.  “We’re contemplating joining the suit or we could bring
our own,” she said. Her office began investigating foreclosure
practices this summer, she said.  McKenna of Washington said he doesn’t anticipate filing any
lawsuits. His office began an investigation in May after
receiving consumer complaints about faulty foreclosure
documentation, including instances in which “the same name
seemed to be signed by several different people,” he said.  “We’d prefer to settle rather than litigate,” he said.
McKenna was one of the leaders in the multistate settlement with
Bank of America over the mortgage practices at its Countrywide
Financial unit. He said that resolution, in which homeowners
received loan modifications, is a possible guide.  Texas Subpoenas  Greg Abbott , the Texas attorney general, has subpoenaed
information and documents from nine banks or loan servicers
including Bank of America, Ally and JPMorgan.  Abbott’s office sent letters on Oct. 4 to 30 loan
servicers, asking them to halt foreclosures in the state,
pending a review of their practices. Abbott also asked banks to
identify employees who filed faulty affidavits or other
documents in the state and to identify foreclosures that used
such documents.  South Dakota Attorney General  Marty Jackley ’s office will
investigate some individual complaints, he said in an interview
yesterday.  “What we’re seeing nationally didn’t happen here,”
Jackley said. “We just don’t see the volume” of foreclosures,
compared with other states, he said.  Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum  asked on Oct. 12 to
meet with a group of banks, including Bank of America and
JPMorgan, about their foreclosure practices. He said in an
interview on Oct. 15 that he had met with JPMorgan and had a
telephone conference with Bank of America. He said the two were
“well on their way” to correcting problems in their
foreclosure procedures.  Goldman, PNC  McCollum, who sits on the executive committee of the 50-
state task force, also has asked to meet with  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. ’s Litton Loan Servicing LP, PNC Financial Services
Group Inc. and GMAC.  “We are in the process of setting up the remaining
meetings,” said Shannon Knowles, who works in McCollum’s
communications office. “No subpoenas have gone out to date to
any of the banks,” she said yesterday in an e-mail.  “Litton Loan Servicing has been and continues to be
responsive to the requests by the state attorneys general,”
Donna Marie Jendritza, spokeswoman for the Houston-based
company, said in an e-mail.  Fred Solomon , of Pittsburgh-based
PNC, declined to comment.  “The ball is now in the lenders’ court,” said Columbia’s
Tierney. “The AGs have said, ‘We’re here, we’re looking.’ Some
people are forthcoming and some people are not. And each lender
may decide differently.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 