-- Mortgage Industry Bristles at `Robin Hood' Foreclosure Theories
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-10-27T17:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/mortgage-industry-calls-robin-hood-home-foreclosure-theories-implausible.html
The mortgage industry is casting
aside concern that its  foreclosure  practices are rife with
unfixable errors, even as executives acknowledge inappropriate
practices such as robo-signing, officials said at a conference.  The “number of attorneys that signed off on” the policies
used when Wall Street firms packaged mortgages into bonds means
it’s likely that the trusts used to hold the debt will be able
to prove they own the loans in almost all cases, said  Philip Seares , a managing director at Citigroup Inc. who run its
trading of whole loans.  The industry also has faith that loan assignments handled
by the  Mortgage Electronic Registration System , or MERS, can’t
be broadly contested, Seares and Mortgage Bankers Association
President  John Courson  said at the group’s annual conference.
They were countering claims from homeowner lawyers and academics
such as  Katherine Porter , a visiting professor at Harvard Law
School, who say large numbers of borrowers that haven’t paid
their mortgages may be able to avoid ever being foreclosed on.  “Everybody wants to believe in this Robin Hood scenario,
where everyone is going to get a free house,” Seares said
yesterday during a panel discussion at the mortgage group’s
conference in Atlanta. “That’s not really plausible.”  Scrutiny of foreclosure practices intensified last month
when a memo showed Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage unit
halted evictions in 23 states to review its policies. An
employee said in sworn testimony that he and his team signed
10,000 affidavits and other documents each month without
checking the accuracy of files.  Loan Servicers  Additional loan servicers including  Bank of America Corp. 
then began reviewing their practices, also acknowledging
notaries may not have always been present during signings.
Attorneys generals in all 50 states started an investigation.
This month, Ally and Bank of America resumed processing
defaults, saying they had fixed improper policies, would redo
incorrect filings and were otherwise confident in their
foreclosure work.  They shouldn’t be, according to Porter, whose 2007  research 
examined practices of lenders and servicers foreclosing on
bankrupt borrowers.  “The robo-signing simply brought to light a whole array of
impermissible practices,” she said in a telephone interview
earlier this month. The “hardest problem” to solve, she said,
stems from mortgage-bond trusts needing to have possession of
both so-called promissory notes and mortgages, with full records
of transfers of their ownership, to “be on solid ground when
they foreclose.”  Typical Practices  Joshua Rosner , an analyst at New York-based Graham Fisher &
Co., has also questioned whether mortgage-bond trusts did enough
to take ownership of loans. Typical practices, such as filling
in the names of trusts on notes and completing missing links in
assignment chains only after foreclosure work has started, may
encourage investors to challenge whether the debt met the
requirements for delivery under bond contracts, he said.  Ginnie Mae President  Ted Tozer  said he’s been given “no
reason to believe” that securitizations didn’t include proper
transfers of the ownership of home loans, though he plans to
monitor how courts respond amid heightened scrutiny.  “Securitizations were fine,” Tozer, whose U.S. agency
guarantees securities backed by federally insured mortgages,
said during a panel.  The American Securitization Forum trade group, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. bond analysts and law firm SNR Denton have also
dismissed such talk. In a  commentary  posted on its website, SNR
Denton says that most attempts to question the validity of
practices can be trumped by items such as the fact that all
parties involved “clearly intended” for the trusts to take
ownership.  Legal Challenges  Legal ownership of the homeowners’ debt by the trusts is
needed for foreclosures in their names, and for the trusts’
investors to qualify for tax benefits.  MERS, which was created to limit the costs and paperwork
involved in assigning mortgages to new owners by serving
throughout as the party named in government records, has
withstood numerous legal challenges, said Courson of the
Mortgage Bankers Association.  “Frankly, I’ve seen questions about the model but I
haven’t seen anything that points me to there actually being
anything wrong with it,” he said.  Seares, who handles New York-based Citigroup’s brokering of
pools of soured mortgages, said trading of the debt has remained
robust amid the questioning of foreclosure policies, partly
because sellers promise the paperwork will be accurate.  Debt Demand  While a lengthening of the time needed to complete
foreclosures amid greater legal challenges by borrowers and the
need to fix some items should in theory reduce prices for bad
mortgages, there’s so much demand for the debt that values may
be little affected, he said.  It’s ironic that  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, the
government-supported mortgage companies that have drawn almost
$150 billion of U.S. aid since being seized in 2008, would be
among those the most hurt if MERS were ruled invalid, he added.  “Fannie and Freddie were the ones who pushed MERS; pretty
much everything they own is in MERS,” he said “So it’s the
taxpayers that own pretty much all of the loans that are in
MERS” and would pay if legal efforts challenging its validity
ever succeed.  “I have too much to do to worry about” foreclosure-
document speculation being dismissed by the industry, Fannie Mae
Chief Executive Officer  Michael J. Williams  said in an interview
at the conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 