-- Mortgage Applications in U.S. Increase, Spurred by Lower Borrowing Costs
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-10-27T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/mortgage-applications-in-u-s-increase-spurred-by-lower-borrowing-costs.html
The number of mortgage applications
in the U.S. increased last week as a drop in borrowing costs
revived refinancing and purchases.  The Mortgage Bankers Association’s  index  increased 3.2
percent in the week ended Oct. 22, the Washington-based group
said today.  Purchases  gained 3.9 percent while  refinancing  was
up 3 percent.  An  unemployment rate  projected to hold above 9 percent
through next year and expectations that prices may fall further
threatens to undo the benefits of near record-low interest
rates. At the same time, gains in refinancing are helping
homeowners lower monthly payments, giving households extra cash.  “Housing is still in a state of flux,”  Russell Price , a
senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in Detroit, said
before the report. “Prices and selling rates have likely seen
the vast bulk of their declines for this cycle and what the
housing recovery needs most right now is simply more time to
heal.”  The decrease in purchases in the week ended Oct. 15 had
brought the index to the lowest level since Aug. 13 and close to
a 13-year low recorded in July.  The average rate on a  30-year  fixed mortgage fell to 4.25
percent, matching the second-lowest on record, from 4.34 percent
a week earlier.  At 4.25 percent, monthly payments for each $100,000 of a
30-year fixed loan would be about $492, or $47 less than a year
ago when the rate was 5.04 percent.  Rates Fall  The average rate on a 15-year fixed loan fell to 3.67
percent from 3.74 percent, and the rate on a one-year adjustable
decreased to 7.07 percent from 7.17 percent.  The  share  of applicants seeking to refinance a loan was
little changed at 82.3 percent.  A surge in refinancing helped support the mortgage industry
in the most recent quarter.  Wells Fargo & Co. , the biggest U.S.
mortgage lender, received $194 billion of loan applications in
the third quarter, the second-most in its history, Chief
Financial Officer Howard Atkins said last week. About 80 percent
were to refinance.  Even so, home lending in the U.S. will fall below $1
trillion next year to the lowest level since 1996 as mortgage
rates rise and lead to less refinancing, the mortgage group said
yesterday. An estimated $480 billion in mortgages for home
purchases will be originated this year, the lowest since 1993,
Jay Brinkmann, the group’s chief economist said.  Foreclosure Delays  Foreclosure moratoria at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other
banks, along with government investigations into faulty
paperwork, threaten to further delay a recovery in home sales
and prices as houses slated for repossession take longer to come
to market.  The U.S. central bank and other regulators are
“intensively” examining financial firms’ home-foreclosure
practices and expect preliminary findings next month, Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said Oct. 25 at a housing
conference in Arlington, Virginia.  Fed officials have signaled they may start another round of
unconventional monetary easing at their next meeting Nov. 2-3 to
try to spur the economic recovery. Housing markets are “weak,”
with “sluggish or declining” sales in many regions, the
central bank said last week in its survey of regional districts
for September and early October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  