-- Los Angeles Firefighters Will Vote on Paying More Toward Retirement Fund
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/los-angeles-firefighters-will-vote-on-boosting-their-pension-contributions.html
Los Angeles firefighters will vote
on a proposal to pay more toward their retirement as the second-
largest U.S. city seeks to reduce employee costs.  The plan would increase pension and health-care
contributions to 11 percent of wages from 9 percent, said
Patrick McOsker, president of the  United Firefighters of Los
Angeles City . Voting will take place Nov. 9 and Nov. 10.  “We are voluntarily doing this,” McOsker said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “We understand there is a hue
and cry over public-worker pensions. Wall Street’s meltdown has
impacted every American’s retirement savings.”  The offer by union leaders comes as the Los Angeles City
Council voted unanimously to put police and firefighter pension
plan changes on the local election ballot in March. The
council’s measure would affect only newcomers and may produce
$175 million in savings for every 1,000 workers it affects over
30 years, according to Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa .  The city can’t unilaterally take away contractual benefits
from existing employees, McOsker said. The union won’t oppose
the March initiative, he said.  The council declined yesterday to proceed with plans to
take over pension responsibility from the city commission that
supervises the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power after
hundreds of the utility’s employees showed up at the meeting to
protest the notion, according to the Los Angeles Times.  Mayor’s Proposal  Villaraigosa will propose changes to the city’s pension
plan for workers other than those in public-safety positions,
according to a statement from his office. The changes will
include raising employee contributions and limiting pension
payments to retirees to 70 percent of previous salary.  Barbara Maynard, a spokeswoman for the  Coalition of Los
Angeles City Unions , which represents more than 20,000 city
workers, said she couldn’t comment on the mayor’s proposal
because it’s only one of several plans being considered.  “We’re still very much in the phase of looking at
alternatives that protect workers’ pensions while also dealing
with the city’s financial crisis,” Maynard said in an interview
yesterday.  The mayor and council bridged a $485 million budget gap for
the fiscal year that began July 1 by closing libraries, raising
fees and making workers take unpaid time off. Pension and
health-care expenses for retirees will rise to a projected $802
million this year, 18 percent of general-fund revenue, from $277
million, or 10 percent, in 1999, according to City
Administrative Officer Miguel Santana.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  