-- Asian Stocks Fall to Two-Week Low as Oil, Copper Drop; Rio Tinto Declines
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-10-27T10:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/most-asian-stocks-rise-on-earnings-japan-s-exporters-gain-on-weaker-yen.html
Asian stocks  fell, dragging down the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index by the most in almost two weeks on
speculation a possible Federal Reserve asset-purchase program
that may be announced next week will disappoint investors.  Rio Tinto Group , the world’s No. 3 mining company, sank 2
percent in Sydney after oil and copper prices declined.  BYD Co. ,
the Chinese carmaker backed by  Warren Buffett , tumbled 8.9
percent in Hong Kong after JPMorgan Chase & Co. downgraded the
stock.  Asciano Group , Australia’s largest port and rail operator,
slumped 4.3 percent after saying it’s more cautious on its full-
year outlook. Honda Motor Co. gained 1.9 percent as a weaker yen
boosted the outlook for export earnings.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  dropped 1.2 percent, the most
since Oct. 12, to 128.87 as of 7:23 p.m. in Tokyo. The Fed may
announce a program of U.S. Treasury purchases worth a few
hundred billion dollars at its Nov. 2-3 meeting, the Wall Street
Journal reported today. The ultimate size of the asset-purchase
program range could reach $2 trillion, according to Goldman
Sachs estimates.  “Ahead of the Federal Reserve meeting next week, I’d look
to take some profit,” said  Chris Leung , a Hong Kong-based
portfolio manager at Taifook Asset Management Ltd. “As economic
data turns stronger, I doubt whether the Fed is going to push
the size of quantitative easing. There might be a chance that it
won’t meet market expectation.”  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index  slumped 1.9 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index sank 1.5 percent. South Korea’s  Kospi
Index  decreased 0.5 percent. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index 
dropped 0.9 percent. Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  gained 0.1
percent.  Copper, Oil  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.5 percent.
The index was little changed yesterday in New York, with most
stocks declining as results from companies including Kimberly-
Clark Corp. and U.S. Steel Corp. disappointed some investors.  Gauges of raw-material suppliers and energy companies
posted the  biggest declines  among the 10 industry groups on the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Copper futures in London dropped 0.8
percent, while crude oil prices in New York sank 0.5 percent in
electronic after-hours trading.  Rio Tinto slid 2 percent to A$82.35. BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s biggest mining company, fell 0.8 percent to A$41.49.
 Jiangxi Copper Co. , China’s largest producer of the metal, lost
4.4 percent to HK$21.75. Cnooc Ltd., the nation’s No.1 offshore
energy explorer, sank 2.5 percent to HK$15.76.  Buffett’s BYD  In Sydney,  Macarthur Coal Ltd. , the world’s largest
producer of pulverized coal used in making steel, sank 3.5
percent to A$12.13. The company forecast first-half profit of
A$115 million ($112 million) to A$125 million, missing some
analysts’ estimates.  BYD declined 8.9 percent to HK$46.50, the biggest drop on
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, after JPMorgan lowered its rating
to “underweight” from “neutral.”  Tokyo-based  Mitsui Chemicals Inc.  tumbled 6.7 percent to
237 yen, the MSCI index’s third-largest slump. Its stock-price
estimate was lowered to 330 yen from 350 yen by  Hisaaki Yokoo ,
an analyst at Goldman Sachs.  Asciano slumped 4.3 percent to A$1.565. The company’s
first-quarter coal shipments missed its expectations, making the
management “slightly more cautious” about the full-year
outlook, Chief Executive Officer  Mark Rowsthorn  said in a
statement.  Asset Purchases  More than two stocks declined for each that advanced in the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index today. The gauge dropped for the first
week in two months last week after China unexpectedly raised
interest rates and said its economy grew at the slowest pace in
a year. Companies in the  index  are valued at an average 14.1
times estimated profit, up from about 13.5 times on Aug. 25,
when the gauge fell to a one-month low.  “I’m a bit cautious at the moment,” Taifook Asset’s Leung
said. “In the short term, expect Asian markets to see a
correction.”  The gauge has risen from the August low as concerns about
the strength of global economic growth eased. Fed Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke is likely to preside over a decision next week to
launch another round of large-scale asset purchases after
deploying $1.7 trillion to pull the U.S. economy out of the
financial crisis, comments from policy makers in the past week
indicate.  Weaker Yen  Concerns have “increased that the amount of money in the
markets will be smaller and that may slow the speed of gains in
stock market,” said  Hideaki Higashi , strategist at SMBC Friend
Securities Co.  Japanese exporters advanced after the yen depreciated to
81.76 against the dollar at the close of trading in Tokyo today
from 80.68 at yesterday’s close. A weaker yen boosts the value
of overseas income at Japanese companies when converted into
their home currency.  Honda, a carmaker that gets more than 80 percent of its
revenue outside Japan, gained 1.9 percent to 2,960 yen. Toyota
Motor Corp., the world’s largest automaker, increased 1.5
percent to 2,910 yen.  Sony Corp. , the maker of Bravia
televisions and PlayStation game consoles, rose 0.6 percent to
2,757 yen.  National Australia Bank Ltd. climbed 2.1 percent to A$25.26.
Chief Executive Officer  Cameron Clyne  predicted a stronger
economy will drive demand for corporate loans next year after
the lender said second-half cash profit increased 32 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 