-- P&G First-Quarter Profit Falls 6.8%, Tops Analysts' Estimates
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2010-10-27T11:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/p-g-first-quarter-profit-falls-6-8-tops-analysts-estimates.html
Procter & Gamble Co., the world’s
largest consumer-products company, said first-quarter profit
declined 6.8 percent, exceeding some analysts’ estimates, as it
grappled with price-conscious shoppers.  Net income  declined to $3.08 billion, or $1.02 a share, in
the period ended Sept. 30, from $3.31 billion, or $1.06 a share,
a year earlier, the Cincinnati-based company said in a statement
today. Twenty-one  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg estimated
profit of $1 a share on average.  Some consumers are seeking cheaper products than P&G’s
brands such as Tide detergent, Crest toothpaste and Pampers
diapers, as  joblessness  hovers near a 27-year record in the
U.S., the company’s largest market. Chief Executive Officer  Bob McDonald  has emphasized growth in Brazil and other  emerging
markets  since taking over in July last year.  U.S. unemployment is forecast to exceed 9 percent through
2011, the third year it would top that level, according to
Bloomberg monthly surveys. The proportion of people who said
U.S. jobs were plentiful fell to the lowest level this year in
October and income expectations were the weakest since April
2009, according to a Conference Board survey released yesterday.  P&G fell 68 cents to $62.86 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares had gained 3.7 percent
this year before today.  Last year, 38 percent of the P&G’s sales came from the U.S.  Kimberly-Clark Corp. , the maker of Huggies diapers and Viva
paper towels, posted a 19 percent drop in third-quarter profit
yesterday, and lowered its full-year earnings forecast, citing
rising materials costs.  Profit was also trimmed by lower demand in the
professional-services unit, which sells brands such as Kleenex
and Scott toilet paper to workplaces, and currency devaluation
in Venezuela, Kimberly-Clark said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  