-- Pacific Biosciences Raises $200 Million Pricing IPO Before Nasdaq Trading
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-10-27T20:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/pacific-biosciences-raises-200-million-pricing-ipo-before-nasdaq-trading.html
Pacific Biosciences of California
Inc.  raised $200 million pricing its initial public offering at
the midpoint of the forecast range in the latest sign that the
U.S. IPO market is stabilizing. The shares advanced.  The developer of gene mapping technology sold 12.5 million
shares at $16 each yesterday after offering them at $15 to $17
apiece, a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission and
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Menlo Park, California-
based company’s shares climbed  2.8 percent  to $16.44 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading today.  The offering came amid increasing signs the U.S. IPO market
is rebounding after 54 companies postponed or withdrew sales
this year and shares of three of five biotechnology companies
that completed deals declined at least 21 percent. Six of the
previous seven U.S. IPOs since the start of last week had gained
13 percent or more in their first day of trading.  Biotechnology “IPOs just have a very hard time to get out
of the door,” said  Josef Schuster , the Chicago-based founder of
IPOX Capital Management LLC, which oversees $3 billion. “If
they were able to price in the middle of the range, I think
that’s positive.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Morgan Stanley in New York led the
offering for Pacific Biosciences. The company has  lost money 
since inception and hasn’t generated any revenue from product
sales, the SEC filing showed.  Biotechnology IPOs  Tengion Inc. , the East Norriton, Pennsylvania-based company
trying to grow replacement organs, has slid 41 percent since its
April IPO, while  NuPathe Inc. , the Conshohocken, Pennsylvania-
based developer of treatments for neurological and psychiatric
disorders, fell 35 percent since its August offering.  Trius
Therapeutics Inc.  the San Diego-based developer of antibiotics,
slipped 21 percent after selling shares the same month.  Pacific Biosciences’ IPO was the second of six offerings
scheduled for this week.  Mecox Lane Ltd. , a Shanghai-based
online retailer, gained 57 percent yesterday after raising $129
million.  First Wind Holdings Inc. , the Boston-based developer and
operator of wind energy projects backed by D.E. Shaw & Co., cut
the price range for its offering of 12 million Class A shares
today to $18 to $20 each from $24 to $26, according to a filing
with the SEC.  ExamWorks, SeaCube  ExamWorks Group Inc. , the Atlanta-based provider of medical
legal services, is selling 10.3 million shares at $16 to $18
each today. New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Credit
Suisse Group AG in Zurich and Barclays Plc of London are leading
the offering.  SeaCube Container Leasing Ltd. , the Park Ridge, New Jersey-
based container leasing company, may raise $135 million today.
JPMorgan, New York-based Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG of
Frankfurt and Wells Fargo & Co. in San Francisco are arranging
the sale.  Le Gaga Holdings Ltd. , a Hong Kong-based vegetable
producer, will sell 10.9 million ADRs at $7.50 to $9.50 apiece
tomorrow. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp.
and UBS AG of Zurich are arranging Le Gaga’s offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 