-- Palestinian Economy Has Potential to Exceed 10% Growth, Abu-Libdeh Says
-- B y   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e ,   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-10-27T13:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/palestinian-economy-has-potential-to-exceed-10-growth-abu-libdeh-says.html
The Palestinian economy has the
potential for annual growth of at least 10 percent for several
years, provided Israel eases access restrictions, Palestinian
Authority National Economy Minister  Hasan Abu-Libdeh  said.  Many markets are entering into free-trade agreements with
the Palestinian Authority, improving prospects for exports, Abu-
Libdeh said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s "The
Pulse" from the World Economic Forum in Marrakesh, Morocco. The
potential for foreign direct investment is high, the minister
said.  “A lot of Palestinians of the diaspora are very rich and
are willing to come and invest in Palestine,” he said.  The West Bank and Gaza Strip economies are heading for
combined growth of 8 percent this year, up from 7.2 percent in
the West Bank and 5.4 percent in Gaza last year, Oussama Kanaan,
head of the International Monetary Fund’s mission to the area,
said last month. While some of the growth is due to improved
investor confidence and the partial easing of restrictions by
Israel, the main driver remains foreign donations, the World
Bank said in a Sept. 16 report.  The Palestinian economy is currently dependent on donor aid
because many aspects of growth are controlled by Israel, Abu-
Libdeh said.  “We do have enough credentials for expansion and growth if
things change on the ground,” Abu-Libdeh said.  Israel says access restrictions are necessary to stop
attacks by militants.  New City  Among the biggest international investments in the West
Bank is the $500 million  new city of Rawabi , north of Ramallah,
funded by the Qatar government’s Diar Real Estate Investment Co.
and planned to house 40,000 people.  The Palestinian economy has been kept afloat by
contributors including the U.S., Europe and Saudi Arabia since
the Oslo peace accords introduced limited self-rule to the West
Bank and Gaza Strip in 1993.  Since taking office last year, Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  has removed some roadblocks throughout the
West Bank and eased other restrictions on the movement of goods
in what he said was an effort to promote “economic peace.”
Negotiations that began Sept. 2 between Israel and the
Palestinian Authority stalled with the Sept. 26 expiration of a
partial freeze on Jewish settlement-building in the West Bank.  Abu-Libdeh earned a master’s degree in statistics from
Stanford University in Palo Alto, California, and received a
doctorate from Cornell University in Ithaca, New York. He was
previously chief executive of the  Palestine Stock Exchange  and
director of the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maryam Nemazee in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 