-- Pancreatic Cancer Growth Rate May Give Time for Early Detection
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 2010-10-27T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/pancreatic-cancer-growth-rate-may-give-time-for-early-detection.html
Pancreatic cancer, long thought by
doctors to be fast growing and almost unbeatable, develops
slowly enough to allow for at least a decade of screening that
may increase chances of survival, university researchers said.  Tissue from seven newly deceased patients showed that cells
in the pancreas took at least 10 years to mutate enough to
produce the first cancer cells, and seven more years before a
tumor could develop and become capable of spreading to other
organs. On average, patients died two years after all that,
according to a study released today in Nature.  The pace of pancreatic cancer means that earlier detection
could bring survival rates more in line with patients who have
prostate, breast or colon tumors. Most malignancies of the
pancreas, a gland behind the stomach, are diagnosed in the final
two years, as there’s usually no screening for the illness until
symptoms appear, said  Christine Iacobuzio-Donahue , a cancer
researcher who is an author of the study.  “The medical community has approached pancreatic cancer
with the mindset that there is nothing much we can do about
it,” said Iacobuzio-Donahue, an associate professor of
pathology and oncology at  Johns Hopkins University  School of
Medicine, in Baltimore. “That was because we had always assumed
that its development was a very rapid process. In fact, the
progression of the disease is not that different from other
cancers.”  36,800 Deaths  With earlier detection, doctors could remove precancerous
cells before they develop into a tumor, much as they excise
polyps to prevent colon cancer, Iacobuzio-Donahue said. This
year in the U.S., there will be 36,800 deaths from the
pancreatic cancer and 43,140 new cases, according to  estimates 
by the National Cancer Institute, based in Bethesda, Maryland.  Today, just 6 percent of patients  survive  at least five
years after being diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, while the
rates are 65 percent for colon and rectal cancer, 89 percent for
breast cancer, and 100 percent for prostate cancer, according to
the  American Cancer Society , based in Atlanta.  Two-thirds of patients diagnosed with pancreatic cancer
have shown evidence that their malignancy has metastasized, or
spread to other organs, Iacobuzio-Donahue said. The study found
that metastasis, which often is the cause of death, occurs late
in the development of pancreatic cancer, leaving time for
detection of the disease earlier.  Complex Screening  Screening for pancreatic cancer would be more complex than
a mammogram, a prostate-related blood test or a colonoscopy.
Iacobuzio-Donahue said it would require getting an endoscopy --
which gives doctors a look inside the body through a tiny camera
at the end of a long, thin tube -- coupled with ultrasound, an
imaging technique using sound waves.  Conventional tests and treatments have limitations, as the
procedures are based on a shorter timetable for the disease’s
progression, said  Bert Vogelstein , a study author and the
director of the Ludwig Center for Cancer Genetics &
Therapeutics, at Johns Hopkins.  The disease’s long gestation period “leaves room to
develop new early, diagnostic tools and intervene with
potentially curative surgery,” Vogelstein said in a statement.  Vogelstein led the  Pancreatic Cancer Genome Project , which
sequenced more than 20,000 genes to decode the series of cell
mutations that results in the disease. Findings from the
initiative, completed in 2008, became the basis for the Nature
study.  Patients currently get tested after they experience pain or
show jaundice, Iacobuzio-Donahue said. Because there are few
nerves in the pancreas, the pain is caused when the tumor grows
beyond the gland into areas with nerves. The tumor causes
jaundice by enlarging to the point that it compresses a bile
duct, she said.  Iacobuzio-Donahue employed a rapid-autopsy program, used in
the study of Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s, to garner the
consent of dying patients to allow an immediate autopsy to
retrieve live tumor cells.  The genome sequencing was funded partly by the U.S.
National Institutes of Health, based in Bethesda; the  Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation , based in Seattle; and the Sol Goldman
Pancreatic Cancer Research Center, at Johns Hopkins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 