-- PDVSA Facing Tough Sale of Citgo, Minister Says
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2010-10-27T21:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/pdvsa-facing-tough-sale-of-u-s-refining-unit-citgo-energy-minister-says.html
Petroleos de Venezuela SA, the South
American country’s state oil company, is having a hard time
finding suitable buyers for Citgo Petroleum Corp., its U.S.
unit, said Oil and Energy Minister  Rafael Ramirez .  The company, known as PDVSA, hasn’t seen direct dividends
from the U.S. subsidiary since 2006, Ramirez said today in
Caracas. He is also the firm’s president.  “Citgo is a horrible business,” Ramirez said. “It’s been
complicated to sell, but we’re working on it. We’re going to
undo the internationalization.”  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  on Oct. 26 said that he
wants to sell Citgo because of low profit at the unit’s eight
U.S. refineries. Venezuela sold its stake in the German refining
venture Ruhr Oel to Russia’s Rosneft Oil Co. for $1.6 billion
this month. PDVSA sold oil inventories at the refining venture
for an additional $800 million, Ramirez said.  “This may be part of a larger capital raising effort
concurrent with their new bond issue,” said  Gianna Bern ,
president of Chicago-based oil and gas investment advisory firm
Brookshire Advisory & Research. Refining “retail assets have
performed fairly poorly. Many producers are shedding retail-
based assets.”  Selling Bonds  PDVSA said on Oct. 25 that it sold $3 billion of 8.5
percent bonds due in 2017 at par value to finance investments
and fund social development projects.  “The challenge may be to find buyers for downstream assets
when demand for refined products is still lackluster,” Bern
said today in an e-mailed response to questions. “The margins
are razor thin.”  In 2008, Citgo sold a pair of asphalt refineries in
Paulsboro, New Jersey, and Savannah, Georgia, to NuStar LP, the
pipeline partnership led by Bill Greehey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nathan Crooks  in Santiago at +56-2-487-4024 or
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
 Corina Rodriguez-Pons  in Caracas at +58-212-277-3737 or
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  