-- China's Wen May Be Target of Communist Editorial in People's Daily
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-27T09:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/people-s-daily-editorial-defends-china-s-political-reform-pace.html
China’s Communist Party mouthpiece,
the People’s  Daily , disputed criticism that political reform is
lagging behind economic growth, in what analysts said may be an
attack on calls for greater openness by Premier  Wen Jiabao .  “The idea China’s political reform is seriously lagging
its remarkable economic development and achievements is
contrary” to “objective facts,” the Beijing-based paper said
in a front-page editorial, excerpts of which were  read  on
yesterday’s evening news on state television. Political change
can’t have “pompous and empty slogans,” the article said.  People’s Daily editorials have been used for decades --
including during the 1966-76 Cultural Revolution and 1989
Tiananmen Square protests -- as a platform for party factions to
air views and attack rivals. Today’s  piece  contrasts with
remarks made by Wen, who said in a  speech  in Shenzhen in August
that economic achievements were in danger of being lost without
greater political reform.  “This is actually an anti-reform statement,” said  Huang Jing , a visiting professor at National University of Singapore’s
Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy.  Today’s editorial argued that any political opening should
strengthen the power of the Communist Party, which has ruled
China for 61 years. It comes as Wen, 68, and General Secretary
 Hu Jintao , 67, prepare to step down from their posts on the
ruling Politburo in 2012. Last week Vice President  Xi Jinping 
was appointed to a party military panel as he prepares to
succeed Hu as Chinese leader.  ‘Anti-Wen’  Huang said the editorial was “anti-Wen” and aimed at
helping top-ranking party cadres who oppose more political
openness to appoint their supporters to higher positions ahead
of the 2012 Party Congress. The article said China would ’’take
its own road.’’ Earlier this month imprisoned Chinese political
activist  Liu Xiaobo  won the Nobel Peace Prize for advocating
that the government and party should honor universal values such
as direct elections and freedom of speech.  Wen said in the Shenzhen speech that without political
reform, "China may lose what it has already achieved through
economic restructuring and the targets of its modernization may
never be reached," according to an English-language account
published on the web site of the People’s Daily controlled
Global Times. China’s economy is the world’s second-largest
after the U.S.  Correct Path  The People’s Daily opinion piece was signed using a name,
Zheng Qingyuan, that sounds similar in Chinese to a phrase
meaning to bring something back to the correct path. A Chinese-
language search for the name on Google Inc.’s local web site
only found references to People’s Daily editorials written in
the last week.  The Central Propaganda Department, which oversees the
People’s Daily, didn’t immediately respond to faxed questions
asking whether the editorial was in conflict with Wen’s remarks
and if the author’s name was a pseudonym.  Earlier this month a group of senior retired Communist
Party cadres, including former People’s Daily editor Hu Jiwei,
published an open  letter  on the Internet saying “invisible
black hands” in the party’s propaganda apparatus suppressed
Wen’s Shenzhen speech inside China. Wen said last month that
China’s people demanded more democratic reforms.  "I believe I and all the Chinese people have such a
conviction that China will make continuous progress, and the
people’s wishes for and needs for democracy and freedom are
irresistible," Wen said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” program
taped Sept. 23 in New York. “I will not fall in spite of the
strong wind and harsh rain, and I will not yield until the last
day of my life.”  -- Michael Forsythe . Editors:  Bill Austin ,  Ben Richardson .  To contact Bloomberg staff on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing +8610-6649-7580 or
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  