-- Petrobras to Decide on Oil Refinery in Japan's Okinawa Upgrades Early 2011
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-10-27T07:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/petrobras-to-decide-on-okinawa-plant-upgrades-by-early-2011.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA  will make an
investment decision on upgrading its oil refinery in Okinawa by
early 2011 in order to comply with new Japanese regulations that
would require companies to process heavier crude types.  Petroleo Brasileiro, or Petrobras, is considering two plans
for increasing the ability of the plant, operated by unit Nansei
Sekiyu K.K., to process fuel oil and heavy crudes into higher
value fuels such as gasoline and diesel, Mauro Reis Pumar, chief
trading officer, said in Singapore today. The company is
considering adding conversion units including a coking unit and
a visbreaking unit, or adjusting crude runs and adding
hydrotreating capacity to produce lower-sulfur fuels.  “I hope we have a decision by the end of this year or
early next year,” Pumar told reporters at the Downstream Asia
conference. “We have two plans where we have high conversion
capacity. But we can easily change that plan to one where we
adjust the crude quality.”  Petrobras is considering the changes to comply with new
Japanese rules mandating that the country’s refiners reduce the
amount of simple processing capacity in favor of complex. The
investment costs of the most conversion ability would cost about
$1.5 billion, said Pumar.  The regulations are meant to compel Japanese refiners to
modernize refineries or cut capacity in an oversupplied market
so they can compete more effectively with Asian rivals,
according to the trade ministry. About 10 percent of the
country’s capacity is dedicated to heavy oil processing.  50 Percent Capacity  The 100,000 barrel-a-day Nansei plant, located on the
southern Japanese island, is a hydroskimming unit that distills
crude into gasoline, gasoil and fuel oil and processes naphtha
through a reforming unit to increase the amount of motor fuel it
produces.  The refinery is now running at 50 percent capacity
utilization, said Pumar. It is exporting high-sulfur gasoil to
the Philippines and Vietnam as well as low-sulfur fuel oil to
China, he said.  The plant is importing low-sulfur crude oil from Vietnam,
Australia and Indonesia as well as Africa, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Clyde Russell  at   crussell7@bloomberg.net . 