-- Phony Beatles Trample Fab Four in Soggy ‘Rain’: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-10-27T02:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/phony-beatles-trample-fab-four-in-soggy-rain-jeremy-gerard.html
Just in time for Halloween comes
“Rain,” the cheesiest slice of  Beatles  necrophilia since
 George Harrison ’s doctor had him autograph a guitar as he lay
dying of brain cancer.  The two-hour concert, padded with froufrou, is performed by
a quartet bearing no resemblance, physically or musically, to
John, Paul, George and Ringo. “Rain: A Tribute to the Beatles
on Broadway” has the blessing of  Sony Corp. , which licenses the
Fab Four catalog inherited from  Michael Jackson .  The stage is flanked by big screens framed to look like old
TV sets. As a warm-up, we’re shown clips of the  Kennedys  and the
British invasion. An Ed Sullivan impersonator introduces the
boys from Liverpool (their names are never mentioned during the
evening) to the TV audience as the curtain rises on their stand-
ins, who launch into “I Want to Hold Your Hand,” “All My
Loving” and “This Boy.”  Unlike  “Jersey Boys,”  the Four Seasons bio-show playing
across the street, “Rain” doesn’t bother with a story. The
show follows the Beatles arc from touring rock band to the
studios where they produced “Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club
Band” and the psychedelia that followed, to the winding road
that took them to their pre-breakup, throw-in-the-towel chart
toppers “Let It Be” and “Hey Jude.”  Slick Licks  There is some intelligent musicianship on the stage
(including strong support from keyboardist Mark Beyer), but it’s
folded into to a grinning, puppy-doggish show with all the charm
of a sculpture grouping at  Mme. Tussauds .  Waxiest-looking of the four is Joey Curatolo in the Paul
role of bassist/tummler, looking vaguely like Micky Dolenz of
the Monkees. He urges the audience through a frozen saccharine
smile to sing along on “Yesterday,” clap hands, stand up and
dance and fly their graying freak flag at “When I’m 64.”
(Worst of all for Beatles purists, Curatolo is right-handed.)  Steve Landes, in the John role, is almost as icky,
revealing none of Lennon’s angry, sardonic flashes or even a
glimmer or irony over the street-smart band’s astonishing rise
to fame. Drummer Ralph Castelli has Ringo’s dopey smile but not
his self-mocking style. Joe Bithorn plays guitar well enough to
make you think George actually wailed out the lead on “While My
Guitar Gently Weeps” (every Beatles fan knows it was their pal
 Eric Clapton  on the track).  There is dumbed-down,  Monty Python -style animation, trippy
lighting recalling the  Joshua Light Show  and the inevitable wig
and costume changing. There is even, occasionally, a bit of
singing to remind us of the power of the Lennon/McCartney
partnership. Primarily, however, “Rain” is a Vegas act for All
Hallow’s Eve -- a rock horror show.  At the Neil Simon Theatre, 250 W. 52nd St. Information: +1-
877-250-2929;  http://www.ticketmaster.com 
Rating: *  ( Jeremy Gerard  is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 