-- Poland Keeps Main Rate at 3.5%, Raises Bank Reserves
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-10-27T16:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/poland-keeps-benchmark-rate-at-3-5-as-growth-concern-outweighs-inflation.html
Poland’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a 16th month on concern
that higher rates would attract capital inflows, strengthening
the zloty and curbing economic growth.  Policy makers kept the  seven-day reference rate  at a
record-low 3.5 percent, in line with estimates from 13 of 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. At the same time, they
increased the mandatory reserve rate for banks by half
percentage point to 3.5 percent.  “This is a delicate signal of a future tightening in
monetary policy,” central bank Governor  Marek Belka  said today
at a news conference in Warsaw. “We have already observed a
zloty gain of several percentage points, and we see a
possibility of its appreciation, which is a factor moderating
our inflation concerns.”  While Poland’s inflation rate rose to 2.5 percent last
month, matching the central bank’s target, policy makers are
concerned that higher rates will attract speculators seeking
higher returns. The European Central Bank has kept its benchmark
refinancing rate at 1 percent since May 2009 and the Federal
Reserve says it may ease monetary policy.  Belka, a former chief of the International Monetary Fund’s
European department, said “ it would be irresponsible” for
Narodowy Bank Polski to disregard global conditions.  “A prolonged expansive monetary policy of major central
banks, together with a risk of the world economy further
weakening, justified leaving the key rates unchanged,” Poland’s
central bank said in a statement.  Zloty Falls  The zloty slid 0.9 percent to 3.9679 per euro as of 5:24
p.m. in Warsaw. The decline was the steepest since Oct. 19 and
the second-biggest among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. Bond prices rose, pushing the yield on notes
maturing in October 2012 down 4 basis points to 4.76 percent.  The central bank last raised rates in June 2008, boosting
the reference rate to 6 percent as record-high oil prices and
increasing consumer demand threatened to accelerate inflation.
The bank cut rates six times from November 2008 through June
2009 as it sought to keep the economy from stagnating.  Poland was the only European Union member to avoid
recession last year, with gross domestic product expanding 1.8
percent, the slowest growth in a decade.  The central bank said today there is a 50 percent
probability the economy will expand as much as 3.7 percent this
year, accelerating to 5.5 percent next year and in 2012.  There is also a 50 percent probability inflation won’t
exceed 2.6 percent this year, the bank estimated. Price growth
may accelerate to 3.5 percent next year and 3.7 percent in 2012,
according to projections released today. The bank will publish
its base-line scenario Oct. 29.  Interest-Rate Derivatives  Traders of Polish interest-rate derivatives pared bets
that rates will rise after the central bank’s comments. One
month forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on borrowing
costs within a month, fell 5 basis points to 3.98 percent after
rising 9 basis points in the past two days. The agreements are
trading 12 basis points above the current three-month Warsaw
interbank offered rate of 3.86 percent.  By increasing the reserve requirement for commercial
banks, policy makers rolled back a half percentage-point cut in
June 2009 that was designed to encourage lending during the
global economic crisis.  Marcin Mrowiec , chief economist at Bank
Pekao, said last month that such a move would restrict monetary
policy and provide an alternative for “dovish policy makers.”  Tightening ‘Likely’  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  on Oct. 1 dropped repurchase
operations and foreign exchange currency swaps that had been
used to boost liquidity in the banking system during the crisis.
The bank cited a “gradual improvement on domestic financial
markets” in making the change.  “Monetary policy tightening is still quite likely in
coming months,” said  Jaroslaw Janecki , chief economist at
Societe Generale in Warsaw. “Inflation may increase to more
than the central bank target in October” and the data on retail
sales and industrial production also “should deliver additional
arguments for monetary tightening,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  