-- Polish Traders Boost Interest-Rate Increase Bets as Central Bankers Meet
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-10-27T10:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/polish-traders-boost-interest-rate-increase-bets-as-central-bankers-meet.html
Polish interest-rate derivatives
traders boosted their bets that borrowing costs will rise as
policy makers meet today amid signs economic growth and
inflation are picking up.  One month forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on
borrowing costs within a month, rose one basis point to 4.05
percent as of 12:15 P.m. in Warsaw. The agreements are trading
19 basis points above the current three-month  Warsaw interbank
offered rate  of 3.86 percent.  Central bank policy makers at about midday will announce
their decision on whether to keep their  main rate  at a record-
low of 3.5 percent for a 16th month to help the economy recover
from last year’s slump. A report yesterday showed September
 retail sales  grew at the fastest pace in six months. The annual
 inflation rate  accelerated to 2.5 percent that month, faster
than economists predicted, an Oct. 13 government report showed.  “The strength of the economic recovery is a strong
argument for the Monetary Policy Council to start thinking about
interest-rate hikes,”  Piotr Kalisz  and Cezary Chrapek,
economists at Citigroup Inc. in Warsaw, wrote in a note. “The
first interest rate increase by 25 basis points is possible as
soon as today’s meeting, but this is going to be a very close
call.”  Citigroup is in the minority. Thirteen out of 20 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predict the central bank will probably
reject a motion to raise rates. With seven economists
forecasting a rate increase, this is the first time analysts
haven’t been unanimous since the panel stopped cutting rates in
June 2009.  GDP  Some members of Poland’s 10-member Monetary Policy Council
sought a half percentage-point increase at rate-setting meetings
in August and September, arguing that record-low rates were no
longer appropriate given the expansion of the gross national
product.  Governor  Marek Belka  has expressed concern capital inflows
may cause the zloty to appreciate and the country’s exports to
become less competitive, damping the export-led recovery. Belka
holds a tie-breaking vote on the panel.  “Strong data supports the case of a hike,”  Esther Law  in
London and  Jaroslaw Janecki  in Warsaw, analysts at Societe
Generale SA, wrote in a note to clients. “Accelerating Polish
economic activity in recent quarters, an upgrade in the GDP
forecast for coming years and recent strong September industrial
output and retail sales should all support a hike at this week’s
meeting.”  Direction  An increase of 50 basis points is justified, and would
offer “a clear direction” for the zloty, pushing the currency
to 3.9 per euro and “possibly” toward 3.85, the French bank
said.  The zloty has strengthened 1.7 percent against the euro in
the past three months, the third-biggest gain among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It weakened 0.2
percent to 3.9398 per euro as of 11:54 a.m. in Warsaw.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  