-- Polish M&A May Triple to $15 Billion on Enea as KPMG, Nomura Lead the Pack
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-10-27T10:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/polish-m-a-may-triple-to-15-billion-on-enea-as-kpmg-nomura-lead-the-pack.html
Polish mergers and acquisitions may
triple to $15.4 billion this year after the government agrees to
sell the country’s third-largest utility  Enea SA  in response to
bids due today from GDF Suez SA and Kulczyk Holding SA.  The market has more than doubled from last year to $11.7
billion, before the Enea transaction, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Banco Santander SA , Spain’s largest lender, will buy Bank
Zachodni WBK SA in this year’s largest deal, valued as high as
16.6 billion zloty ($5.9 billion), and Poland’s largest utility
 PGE SA  agreed to buy Energa SA for 7.53 billion zloty. Both
sales, agreed on last month, are awaiting regulators’ approval.  The Treasury Ministry is in talks with GDF, France’s
largest utility, and Kulczyk Holding, owned by Polish
billionaire  Jan Kulczyk , to sell 51 percent of Enea. The
companies are due to place final bids today as the ministry
strives to conclude the talks by the end of this month.  “By value this year may turn out to be a record, and could
be difficult to repeat, due to the three biggest deals,” Tomasz
Pasiewicz, of Warsaw-based M&A advisory boutique Saski Partners,
said by phone.  “As far as the number of deals is concerned, activity will
keep on rising in the following years, as the market is still
quite shallow,” said Pasiewicz, whose company, set up by ex-
Citigroup Inc. bankers, has advised on deals valued at 300
million-euro ($415 million) this year, including the purchase of
 Ruch SA  by Eton Park Capital Management LP funds.  KPMG, Nomura  KPMG International and Nomura International Plc are
Poland’s top two advisers this year, participating in the
Zachodni and Energa deals. They took the lead from Lazard Ltd.
and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which in 2009 took part in
 SABMiller Plc ’s purchase of shares in brewery Kompania
Piwowarska SA from Kulczyk.  In addition to KPMG and Nomura, Santander’s purchase of
Zachodni from Allied Irish Banks Plc was managed by the two
banks themselves, along with Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan Stanley.  The Treasury Ministry wants the buyer of Enea to announce a
public tender for 100 percent of the company, which could bring
the total value to 10.5 billion zloty ($3.7 billion) based on
today’s stock price.  Credit Suisse Securities Europe Ltd. and Rothschild Polska
Sp. z o.o. are advising the government on the sale.  After the Enea sale the minister will account for more than
40 percent of the M&A market by value as it sells 25 billion
zloty of assets, including sales on the stock exchange, to help
finance a growing budget gap.  NWR Pursues Bogdanka  Potential non-state deals this year include a $1.2 billion
bid by New World Resources NV, the largest producer of coking
coal in the neighboring Czech Republic, for Polish mining
company Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA.  Both Bogdanka’s management and its largest shareholder have
rejected NWR’s 100.75 zloty-a-share bid, which comes seven
months after the government sold a 47 percent stake to Polish
pension funds at 70.5 zloty apiece.  “Poland will continue to be the biggest market in the
region,” Pasiewicz said, as mid-sized European companies enter
the country, Polish owners become more prepared to sell, and
local companies begin to search for opportunities abroad.  Bulgaria, with deals worth $878.5 million according to
Bloomberg data, was the second-biggest market in the region,
which excludes Russia’s $33.2 billion of transactions and
Turkey’s $5.4 billion.  The sale of Polkomtel SA, Poland’s largest mobile-phone
operator, may be the biggest transaction next year, with the
company valued at 3.7 billion euros in a 2008 deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  