-- Pork for Me, Scraps for You, Is Tragedy: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-10-27T15:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/pork-for-me-scraps-for-you-tragedy-for-all-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
(Corrects to delete reference to alternate engine being
over-budget and behind schedule in 1st paragraph.)  House Minority Leader  John Boehner 
rails against government spending yet votes for a $485 million
appropriation for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter’s alternative
engine, which the Pentagon wants to kill. Boehner’s district is
near the General Electric plant that’s building the engine.  Congressman  Earl Pomeroy , Democrat of North Dakota, is a
member of the fiscally conservative Blue Dog Coalition. He got
an “F” on his 2009  report card  from the National Taxpayers’
Union, which ranks members on the restraint they exercise in the
areas of taxing and spending.  Mississippi Senator  Thad Cochran , ranking member on the
Appropriations Committee, has a lifetime rating of 80 from the
American Conservative Union. Yet he secured $490 million of
earmarks in 2010, making him the  biggest Senate porker  for the
third consecutive year, according to watchdog group Citizens
Against Government Waste.  With fiscal conservatives like these, who needs big
spenders?  That lawmakers stand for one thing and vote for another
isn’t necessarily a reflection of a split personality or a
duplicitous nature. They’re just doing what the budget process
incentivizes them to do.  Let me explain.  The framers of the U.S. Constitution devised a system of
government known as representative democracy. We elect
individuals to represent our interests in  Congress .  Our House  The House of Representatives is known as the “People’s
House” for two reasons. First, it was the only arm of
government to be elected directly by the people until the  17th
Amendment , ratified in 1913, made the Senate a directly elected
body. Second, members represent small districts and must face
voters every other year to “renew” their membership. All
spending bills must originate in the House, according to the
Constitution.  Newly elected representatives may come to Washington with
high ideals and lofty principles. Then they’re confronted with a
big pool of money that’s there for the taking. If they don’t
claim it, someone else will.  In this world, thrift isn’t a virtue. The meek don’t
inherit anything. The only question is which districts will win
the jackpot.  Economist  John Cogan , a senior fellow at the Hoover
Institution and professor of public policy at Stanford
University, sees the budget process as an illustration of the
“Tragedy of the Commons,” a concept first enunciated by
biologist Garrett Hardin in a 1968  essay  published in Science
magazine.  Collective Self-Interest  Hardin showed how individuals, acting in their own self-
interest, will deplete a commonly owned resource -- a forest or
grazing land, for example -- even if it’s in everyone’s long-
term self-interest to preserve it. “Freedom in a commons brings
ruin to all,” Hardin wrote.  Two decades ago, Cogan looked at the history of government
spending and the budget process and  found  “the powerful role
the commons problem played in producing deficits.”  A centralized process, with spending authority concentrated
in a single committee in each House, produced balanced budgets
during the first 90 years of U.S. history except during periods
of war and recession. Decentralized budgeting by numerous
authorizing committees proved to be a ticket for  deficit
spending , on average, from 1886-1921 and 1932 until now.  Various measures have been introduced over the years to
impose some accountability on the budget process.
“Unfortunately, the committee itself was the accountant,”
Cogan said in a telephone interview last week.  Common Welfare  The Congressional Budget Act of 1974 required the House and
Senate Budget Committees to draft a budget resolution to serve
as a spending blueprint. The resolution is non-binding.  Paygo, requiring offsetting cuts for any new entitlement
spending, was introduced in the 1990s and allowed to lapse.  The current Democratic Congress passed Paygo, proceeded to
ignore it and never got around to passing a budget resolution.  So much for attempts at accountability.  The only solution, according to Cogan, is to centralize the
budget process. (Yes, this is a conservative talking.) The way
things now stand, no one decides the total amount of money the
government will  spend . Various committees with jurisdiction over
specific areas of the budget start to move legislation forward.  Under the current system, lawmakers aren’t doing their job
-- they aren’t “representing” their constituents -- if they
don’t make a claim on the community till.  Once Congress could spend to promote the general welfare
(it could already tax to promote the general welfare), courtesy
of a series of Supreme Court rulings in the 1930s, Congress got
to “decide what the general welfare is,” Cogan said. “It
created demand from representatives for projects they wouldn’t
demand if they had to pay for it themselves.”  Tea Party candidates who ride into Washington on a wave of
anti-incumbent fervor will face the same skewed spending
incentives as their predecessors. In their zeal to represent the
common man, they may just compound the common tragedy.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  