-- Portuguese Budget Talks Stall, Final Passage Placed in Doubt by Dispute
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-10-27T20:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/portugal-s-government-breaks-off-2011-budget-talks-with-opposition-party.html
The Portuguese government and the
country’s main opposition party broke off talks on the biggest
budget cuts since at least the 1970s, possibly jeopardizing
passage of the 2011 plan to tame the euro-region’s fourth-
biggest deficit.  “There is no possibility of continuing the negotiation
process,”  Eduardo Catroga , a former finance minister who
represented the opposition Social Democratic Party in the talks,
said in Lisbon today. “My function from a technical standpoint
no longer makes sense.”  The Social Democrats have opposed tax increases in the
budget and called for deeper spending cuts. Finance Minister
 Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  and Catroga had been negotiating
this week after Portugal’s  borrowing costs  rose to a euro-era
record on Sept. 28 amid Social Democrat threats to oppose the
plan. Prime Minister  Jose Socrates , lacking a parliamentary
majority, needs the largest opposition party to back the budget
or abstain for it to be passed.  “This is very, very important especially after the move in
Portuguese bonds which was pricing in that an agreement would be
finally reached, so it’s the exact opposite of what was
expected,” said  Ioannis Sokos , a London-based interest-rate
strategist at BNP Paribas.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis took hold at the end of 2009
after Greece’s newly elected government said the budget deficit
was twice as big as the previous administration disclosed. In
April, Greece tapped a 110 billion-euro ($152 billion) loan
facility from the European Union and the International Monetary
Fund after being shut out of debt markets. The EU then passed a
750 billion-euro backstop for the rest of the euro region after
borrowing costs surged for high-deficit nations.  Portuguese Premium  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Portuguese
bonds rather than German bunds, the European benchmark, climbed
16 basis points to 329 basis points after the announcement, the
biggest increase in a month. The spread hit a record 441 basis
points in September. The country’s PSI-20 benchmark index
dropped 1.3 percent.  The Social Democrats have decided to wait until the day
before the budget is due to be voted in parliament for the
government to reconsider the opposition group’s proposals,
 Miguel Relvas , the Social Democratic Party’s secretary-general,
said today.  Failure to pass the Portuguese budget “will plunge the
country into a profound financial crisis with very serious
consequences for our economy, in which we’ll see the channels of
financing for our economy blocked,” Teixeira dos Santos said
today in comments broadcast by SIC Noticias television. “It’s a
very worrisome scenario.”  Bond Sale  Portugal sold 1.23 billion euros of bonds due October 2014
and June 2018 in an auction today before the announcement that
the talks ended.  “This flip-flopping on the budget is a luxury that
Portugal probably cannot afford,”  Gilles Moec , an economist at
Deutsche Bank AG, said today in a research note.  Portuguese President  Anibal Cavaco Silva  said today that he
called a meeting of the Council of State for Oct. 29 to discuss
the 2011 budget and the political situation.  Socrates has proposed to lower the wage bill by 5 percent
for public workers earning more than 1,500 euros a month, freeze
hiring and raise the value-added tax by 2 percentage points to
23 percent to trim a budget gap that reached 9.3 percent of
gross domestic product last year, the euro-region’s fourth-
biggest deficit.  Parliament will start discussing the 2011 budget on Nov. 2
and an initial vote is scheduled for the next day. Social
Democratic leader  Pedro Passos Coelho  had said on Oct. 20 that
the party may abstain in the vote, allowing the 2011 budget to
pass as long as the government considers its proposals.  Spending Cuts  Passos Coelho called for “greater ambition” to cut state
spending, reduce the proposed tax burden and prevent additional
cost increases for infrastructure projects and public-private
partnerships. The Social Democrats tried to make a “bad
budget” better, Catroga said today, adding that the government
was “insensitive” to their arguments on further spending cuts.  “There is no room for maneuver and I don’t see a way in
which we can accommodate the set of demands that the Social
Democratic Party presented without putting in question next
year’s budget deficit,” Teixeira dos Santos said today.  The planned spending cuts for next year are set to be the
biggest since at least 1978, according to Eurostat, the EU’s
statistics office. Moody’s Investors Service said on Oct. 18
that the government was responding “adequately” to market
pressures to lower the deficit. Portugal is rated A1 by Moody’s
and A- by Standard & Poor’s.  Highest Budget Gap  Portugal last year posted the highest budget gap in the
euro region after Ireland, Greece and Spain. It aims to lower
the  shortfall  to 7.3 percent this year, to 4.6 percent in 2011
and to meet the EU’s 3 percent limit in 2012.  The Finance Ministry forecasts Portugal’s public debt as a
percentage of GDP will increase to 86.6 percent in 2011 from
about 82.1 percent this year. Teixeira dos Santos said on Oct.
16 that he expects the ratio to “stabilize” in 2012 and to
start declining in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anabela Reis  in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 