-- Pound Drops Against Dollar as Investors Speculate Fed May Buy Fewer Bonds
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-27T09:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/pound-drops-against-dollar-as-investors-speculate-fed-may-buy-fewer-bonds.html
Sterling fell versus the dollar amid
speculation the U.K. currency’s biggest surge in almost three
months yesterday was overdone given the Federal Reserve may buy
fewer government bonds than expected to support the economy.  The pound pared its monthly gain versus the U.S. currency
to 0.6 percent. The Fed will announce bond purchases, known as
quantitative easing, worth a few hundred billion dollars over
several months, the Wall Street Journal reported. The pound
climbed yesterday after Britain’s economy grew at double the
pace forecast by economists in the third quarter and Standard &
Poor’s raised its credit outlook on the nation’s debt.  Today is “a dollar story, with the market responding to
the prospect of more Fed QE,” said  Geoffrey Yu , a currency
strategist at UBS AG in London. “That should push sterling-
dollar lower through profit-taking and an acknowledgement that
dollar QE-related weakness has probably been fully priced in.”  The pound slipped 0.2 percent against the dollar to $1.5813
as of 9:31 a.m. in London, after strengthening as much as 1.1
percent yesterday, its biggest intraday gain since Aug. 2.
Sterling was 0.1 percent stronger at 87.39 pence per euro, after
earlier gaining as much as 0.4 percent. It rose 0.3 percent to
129.4 yen.  The pound has depreciated 4.5 percent this year against a
basket of its developed-country peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the second-
worst performing currency, after the euro.  Outlook Restored  Data from the Office for National Statistics in London
yesterday showed  gross domestic product  climbed 0.8 percent in
the three months through September. S&P affirmed its top AAA
rating for the U.K. and restored its outlook on the ranking to
“stable” from “negative.”  The 10-year gilt yield climbed four basis points to 3.11
percent. Two-year note yields rose one basis point to 0.73
percent, after earlier advancing to 0.79 percent, the highest
since Sept. 13.  Gilts returned investors 8.7 percent since the end of 2009,
beating an 8 percent gain from German debt, and 8.4 percent from
U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  