-- Provident Financial's Pulled Bond Signals Investors Wary of U.K. Subprime
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   C a r o l i n e   H y d e
-- 2010-10-27T13:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/provident-financial-s-pulled-bond-signals-investors-wary-of-u-k-subprime.html
Provident Financial Plc ’s decision
to postpone its sale of five-year notes signals investors are
still wary of U.K. subprime lenders as the deepest budget cuts
since World War II squeeze borrowers.  Britain’s biggest non-standard lender yesterday deferred
its euro-denominated issue because of the lack of liquidity in
the secondary market, the Bradford, England-based company said
in a statement. Provident Financial,  ranked BBB  by Fitch
Ratings, was marketing the notes at a yield of 7 percent.  Provident Financial’s shares have slumped since the U.K.
government announced plans to shrink welfare payments by 11
billion pounds ($17 billion) in an effort to balance the
country’s budget. Provident, which typically lends between 300
pounds and 500 pounds to people refused credit by larger banks,
said last week it expects a modest impact from the budget cuts.  “The cancellation of Provident’s deal is proof of
investors’ continued aversion to anything related to subprime
rather than evidence for a general weakening of investor
appetite for new issues,” said  Georg Grodzki , head of credit
research at Legal & General Investment Management in London, who
helps oversee 300 billion pounds of assets.  Provident Financial , which only provides consumer lending,
fell 17 pence, or 2.16 percent, to 770.5 pence at 1:23 p.m. in
London, the lowest level since July 2009. The shares fell to as
low as 760.5 pence today.  Credit Crisis  Investec Plc, the South African bank, last week sold 128
million pounds of bonds backed by U.K. non-conforming mortgages
in the first sale of its kind in three years. The collapse of
the U.S. subprime-mortgage market triggered the global credit
crunch that caused $1.8 trillion of bank writedowns since 2007.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Lloyds TSB Corporate Markets and
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc managed the issue for Provident
Financial. The lender’s 250 million pounds of bonds due 2019
currently yield 7.9 percent, according to Lloyds’ prices on
Bloomberg.  Provident Financial has “the flexibility to return to the
market at the right time,” the company said in the e-mailed
statement, without providing a specific time for the
transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net 
 Caroline Hyde  at 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at   Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  