-- Rand Slumps Most in Five Months as Finance Ministry Acts to Curb Advance
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-27T15:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/rand-weakens-most-since-oct-19-before-mid-term-budget-speech-bonds-drop.html
The rand slid the most in five
months after Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said South Africa
will use higher-than-expected tax revenue to boost purchases of
foreign exchange as a means of weakening the local currency.  The rand depreciated as much as 2.1 percent to 7.0851 per
dollar, the steepest intraday drop since May 25, before trading
at 7.0767 by 5:16 p.m. in Johannesburg, from a close of 6.9431
yesterday. Against the euro the rand lost 1.2 percent to 9.7402.  Gordhan said some of the 31 billion rand ($4.4 billion) in
extra tax forecast for the year through March 2011 will be
transferred to the central bank to build foreign reserves,
according to the medium-term budget  speech  delivered to
parliament in Cape Town today. The government will study the
effectiveness of other measures being taken by countries to
weaken their currencies, including a tax on capital inflows,
said Gordhan.  “In the short term you’d be a seller of the rand on the
back of government initiatives to weaken the rand,”  Nigel Rendell , an emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital, said in a
telephone interview from London. “Longer term, one has to be
more skeptical because ultimately the market is king so it’s
difficult to see the central bank being able to go against that.
There’s a global backdrop of money flowing into emerging markets
in search of yield.”  South Africa’s currency has rallied 33 percent versus the
dollar since the start of last year as near-zero rates in
developed nations encouraged investors to borrow cheaply to
invest in higher-yielding markets. A benchmark interest rate of
 6 percent  in South Africa makes the rand a popular purchase in
this strategy, known as the carry trade.  Jobs  “We appreciate that sustained exchange rate overvaluation
creates difficulties for many businesses and threatens jobs in
some sectors,” Gordhan said today. “Further steps to moderate
the impact of capital inflows on the South African economy will
be considered.”  Labor unions and manufacturers have lobbied government to
cut interest rates and implement measures to weaken the rand,
which they argue is curbing exports and worsening unemployment.
A report yesterday showed the nation’s  jobless rate , the worst
of 62 countries tracked by Bloomberg, increased to 25.3 percent
in the third quarter, from a revised 25.2 percent in the second.  “We do not target a level of the exchange rate, but we all
recognize in this country the impact that it is having, being an
overvalued currency, and we will look at what needs to be
done,” Central Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  told reporters in Cape
Town before Gordhan’s mid-term budget speech.  Inflation  South African government bonds gained after a report showed
inflation eased to a five-year low. The benchmark 13.5 percent
security due September 2015 rose 1 cent to 125.40 rand, reducing
the yield by less than one basis point to 7.22 percent.  Consumer  inflation  slowed to 3.2 percent in September, from
3.5 percent in August, the Pretoria-based statistics office said
on its website today. It was the ninth straight monthly decline
and the lowest rate since June 2005.  “The inflation data supports the case for lower rates,”
said Rendell.  FRAs, or forward-rates agreements, showed money-market
investors raised bets the  Reserve Bank  will lower the benchmark
rate for a ninth time when it announces its next decision on
Nov. 18. The cost of  three-month contracts for cash in three
months  fell 9.5 basis points to 5.685 percent, the lowest since
the central bank first introduced its repurchase rate in 1999.  A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  