-- Real Posts Monthly Drop as Tax Saps Bond Demand: Brazil Credit
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2010-10-27T17:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/real-sliding-versus-won-yen-as-foreigners-cut-bullish-bets-brazil-credit.html
Brazil’s real is falling against all
major currencies this month for the first time since January, a
sign Finance Minister  Guido Mantega ’s tax increase on foreigners
is succeeding in slowing investment in the debt market.  The real dropped at least 0.5 percent versus all 16 major
currencies, including a 3.9 percent plunge against the yen, as
Mantega raised a tax on foreigners’ fixed-income purchases twice
to stem gains in Brazil’s currency. International investors
pared bullish bets on the real by $4 billion last week, the most
since June, according to data compiled by BM&FBovespa SA.  While countries from South Korea to Japan fail to weaken
their currencies to help exporters, Brazil is achieving the goal
after Mantega tripled the tax to 6 percent within two weeks to
curb a two-year, 30 percent rally in the real. Mantega, fighting
what he has described as a global “currency war,” is trying to
prevent the real from strengthening beyond 1.7 per dollar as
record-low interest rates in the U.S., Europe and Japan spark
demand for Brazilian debt, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Mantega fought it very hard, and he won the battle,”
said  Dirk Willer , head of Latin America local markets strategy
at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “If you pick a fight with him,
you have to know what his next move is. Mantega ensures there
will be measure after measure behind it, and you have to wonder
where the end is. It has changed the market psychology.”  The moves, while weakening the real, have driven up
Brazil’s borrowing costs by cutting demand for government debt.  Yields on real-denominated bonds maturing in 2021 surged 20
basis points, or 0.2 percentage point, this month to 12.1
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Brazil’s local
debt has lost 0.04 percent this month in dollar terms, putting
it on pace for its first monthly decline since May, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s GBI-Broad Index .  Fourfold  Brazil sought to slow investment in the bond market after
foreigners boosted purchases of fixed-income assets fourfold
from January to September to $24.1 billion, helping spark the
real’s advance and swell the  annual current account deficit  to a
record $47 billion, according to the central bank. Brazil’s
10.75 percent benchmark lending rate, the second-highest in the
world in inflation-adjusted terms after Croatia, compares with
key rates of 1 percent or lower in the U.S., Japan and Europe.  The real lost 1.7 percent this month to 1.7164 per dollar,
paring this year’s gain to 1.6 percent. The Brazilian currency’s
3.8 percent loss versus the yen in October pushed its decline in
2010 to 10.9 percent. The currency is also down against 22 of 24
emerging-market currencies in October, falling 3 percent versus
the Polish zloty and 2.8 percent against the Mexican peso.  “The measures have been successful in preventing the real
to appreciate,” said  Clyde Wardle , emerging-market currency
strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in New York. “Every time we get
to 1.70 the rhetoric picks up, so that’s a level to watch.”  Bullish Bets  The real touched 1.6442 per dollar on Oct. 14, the
strongest level since September 2008. It has surged 106 percent
since President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva took office in 2003,
the most in the world.  Ramiro Alves , a Finance Ministry spokesman in Brasilia,
said in a telephone interview yesterday that the government has
no exchange-rate target and that it’s monitoring the currency’s
fluctuations daily.  Overseas investors made 244,805 more bets on the real
rising than falling versus the dollar on Oct. 22, compared with
321,443 a week earlier, after Mantega lifted the tax on
foreigners’ margin deposit for futures to 6 percent from 0.38
percent. With each contract worth $50,000, the net bullish
wagers equal about $12 billion, compared with $16 billion on
Oct. 15 and a three-year high of $16.1 billion on Sept. 30.  Mantega, 61, said on Oct. 25 that the real’s reaction to
his measures has been “good” and that he may use “large
caliber” weapons to prevent the real from appreciating if
necessary.  Annual Return  Brazilian yields are still too high to keep foreign
investors away, said  Flavia Cattan-Naslausky , a currency
strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital Markets in Stamford,
Connecticut. She predicts the real will strengthen 3.2 percent
to 1.65 per dollar by year-end, compared with a median forecast
of 1.7 from 16 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “Brazil won’t win the war unless they address the fiscal
issue and bring the rates down,” Cattan-Naslausky said. “They
should use the moment to fix the domestic distortion.”  The government boosted spending 18.2 percent in July from a
year earlier, helping push the  budget deficit  to 3.4 percent of
gross domestic product from 1.2 percent in November 2008 and
driving inflation above its 4.5 percent annual target.  Rate Futures  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures due in January
2012 were unchanged today at 11.35 percent, suggesting traders
predict the central bank will raise the benchmark rate to about
12 percent by then. Policy makers have boosted the rate 200
basis points this year to contain inflation as Latin America’s
biggest economy expands at its fastest pace in two decades.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 3 basis points today to
172, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years rose 2 basis points to 98 yesterday from a two-year
low of 89 on Oct. 13, according to CMA DataVision prices.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yen, Won  The real is down 2.6 percent against the dollar since Oct.
18, when Mantega boosted the foreigners’ tax for a second time
and closed a loophole. By contrast, the yen has gained 4.7
percent to a 15-year high versus the dollar since Sept. 15, when
Japan intervened in the foreign-exchange market for the first
time since 2004. South Korea’s won gained 0.2 percent since Oct.
19, when Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said at a
parliamentary audit in Seoul that the government is ready to
curb capital inflows including taxing foreign bond investors.  Mantega told reporters last month that Brazil isn’t “going
to lose this game” as governments around the world engage in a
“currency war.” Brazil’s central bank has bought $4.2 billion
this month through Oct. 15, after tripling purchases to $10.8
billion in September to weaken the real, according to data on
the bank’s website.  “The government is ready to implement measures until they
achieve whatever level they have in mind,” said  Nick Chamie ,
global head of emerging markets at RBC Capital Markets in
Toronto. “The measures are having the desired effects. They are
happy with that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  