-- Treasuries Decline for Sixth Consecutive Day Before Durable-Goods Report
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-27T11:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/treasuries-snap-five-day-decline-as-dudley-says-economic-momentum-slowed.html
Treasuries fell for a sixth straight
day before a report that’s forecast to show U.S. durable-goods
orders climbed in September by the most in five months.  Thirty-year yields climbed for a second day while  two-year
yields  were little changed amid speculation signs of growth will
allow the Federal Reserve to purchase fewer securities than some
traders estimate through a policy that’s become known as
quantitative easing when officials meet next week. The U.S. is
scheduled to sell $35 billion of five-year notes today, the
third of four note auctions this week.  “Yields will rise whatever happens at the Fed meeting,”
said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-market debt at ING Groep
NV in Amsterdam. “If they do less than anticipated, then people
will think the economy is okay, and if they exceed expectations,
they will think they’re doing too much and will create
inflation.”  Benchmark 10-year  yields  climbed four basis points to 2.69
percent at 7:39 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market
Data. The 2.625 percent security due in August 2020 fell 12/32,
or $3.75 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 14/32.  Inflation expectations, as measured by the so-called
breakeven rate, rose to the most since May 18 as traders
increased bets that quantitative easing will increase consumer
prices. The difference between the yield on nominal 10-year
Treasuries and their inflation-linked equivalents widened to as
much as 2.2 percentage points.  Ten-year Treasury yields have increased by 17 basis points,
or 0.17 percentage point, over the previous five days.  Fed Speculation  Estimates for the ultimate size of the asset-purchase
program range from $1 trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
Global Research to $2 trillion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., with
economists at both firms agreeing the Fed will likely start by
announcing $500 billion after the Nov. 2-3 meeting.  The Fed is likely to offer a program of Treasury purchases
worth a few hundred billion dollars over several months at its
next meeting, the Wall Street Journal reported today.  Today’s data may show bookings for goods meant to last at
least three years increased 2 percent, according to the median
forecast of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Another report may show sales of  new houses  rose to a
300,000 annual rate last month, hovering near the record low of
282,000 set in May, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of economists before the Commerce Department
reports the figure today.  Economic Growth  Third-quarter gross domestic product likely rose at a 2
percent annual pace, up from a 1.7 percent rate in the previous
three months, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before the Oct. 29 report.  Even after climbing for six straight days, 10-year Treasury
yields are within 35 basis points of the lowest since January
2009 as investors expect a second round of asset purchases.  Fed Bank of New York President  William Dudley  said
yesterday that momentum in the U.S. economy has ebbed.  “The Great Recession has been followed by a tepid
recovery,” he said in a speech in Rochester, New York. “Since
2009, economic activity has grown, but not robustly,” he said.
“The momentum has slowed.”  Dudley repeated his view that the central bank will
probably embark on a second round of stimulus to address too-low
inflation and a jobless rate that’s stuck near 10 percent.  The U.S. recession that began in December 2007 lasted for
18 months and resulted in $1.83 trillion of losses and
writedowns at banks and financial companies worldwide.  Fed Purchases  Fed policy makers, who already cut  interest rates  almost to
zero and bought $1.7 trillion of securities, are discussing more
purchases of Treasuries to flood markets with cheap money to
prevent stagnating prices from undermining the recovery. The
policy is sometimes called QE2 because it will be Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s second attempt at using quantitative easing.  Fed easing will help the U.S. economy by keeping the dollar
weak, said  Geoff Howie , a senior vice president at MF Global
Singapore Ltd., part of the world’s largest broker of exchange-
traded futures and options.  The U.S. currency’s decline to 80.41 yen on Oct. 25, the
lowest in 15 years, helps make U.S. goods and assets cheaper for
Japanese buyers.  “Yields will creep higher,” Howie said. “The lower U.S.
dollar will help make industry more competitive.” Ten-year
yields will climb to 2.7 percent by year-end, he said.  An auction of $35 billion of two-year notes drew higher-
than-average demand because of speculation the central bank’s
efforts won’t bring the economy back to full speed quickly.  The five-year notes being sold today yielded 1.28 percent
in pre-auction trading, compared with 1.26 percent at the prior
sale on Sept. 28, which was a record low. Investors  bid  for 2.96
times the amount on offer last month, more than the average of
2.76 for the past 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders,  the category of investors including
foreign central banks, bought 50.1 percent of the notes, versus
the 10-sale average of 44.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  