-- Treasury 10-Year Note in Longest Slide Since 2008 on Fed Purchases Outlook
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-10-27T21:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/treasury-10-year-posts-longest-slide-since-2008-on-fed-purchases-outlook.html
Treasury  10-year notes dropped for a
sixth day, the longest streak in two years, as a report showing
new-home sales rose more than forecast added to speculation a
Federal Reserve program to boost the economy may be gradual.  Thirty-year  yields climbed for a second day while two-year
yields were little changed amid speculation signs of growth will
allow the Fed to buy fewer securities than some traders
estimated in a tactic known as quantitative easing. Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said a renewal of asset
purchases will likely signify the end of a 30-year  bull market 
in bonds. The U.S. sold $35 billion of five-year notes today.  “The market is consumed with QE,” said  John Spinello ,
chief technical strategist in New York at Jefferies Group Inc.,
one of 18 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “There are
indications that the marketplace is disappointed at the fact
that it’s more than likely not going to be a huge initial
undertaking and no one knows the amount.”  The yield on the  10-year note  increased eight basis points,
or 0.08 percentage point, to 2.72 percent at 4:59 p.m. in New
York, according to BGCantor Market Data. It touched 2.73
percent, the highest level since Sept. 20. The yield was up 37
basis points to 3.96 percent after its last six-day string of
increases, which ended Oct. 30, 2008. The 2.625 percent security
due in August 2020 dropped 21/32, or $6.56 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 5/32.  The 30-year bond yield climbed as much as seven basis
points to 4.06 percent, the highest level since Aug. 6, while
the two-year note yield added two basis points to 0.41 percent.  Monthly Loss  Treasuries overall have lost 0.4 percent in October, headed
for the first monthly decline since March, according to the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Treasury Master index.  The five-year notes sold today drew a yield of 1.33
percent, compared with a forecast of 1.319 percent in a
Bloomberg survey of eight primary dealers, which are obligated
to bid in U.S. debt sales. The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 2.82. The average at the past 10 auctions was 2.76.  The last five-year note auction, a $35 billion sale Sept.
28, drew a yield of 1.26 percent, which was the lowest on
record. Yields on five-years touched a record low of 1.069
percent on Oct. 8.  “Some areas of the curve have been really expensive in
anticipation of” Fed purchases, said  Thomas Tucci , U.S.
government bond trading head at primary dealer Royal Bank of
Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit in New York. “When you come
with supply you don’t necessarily have buyers at these outright
levels.”  New-Home Sales  Sales of new homes rose 6.6 percent in September to a
307,000 annual rate that exceeded the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey, Commerce Department data showed today.  Inflation expectations, as measured by the so-called
breakeven rate between yields on 10-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities and comparable conventional notes,
increased to the most since May 18 as traders increased bets
that quantitative easing will increase consumer prices. The
difference widened to as much as 2.2 percentage points.  Estimates for the ultimate size of the asset-purchase
program range from $1 trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
Global Research to $2 trillion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Economists at both firms agreed the Fed will likely start by
announcing $500 billion after its Nov. 2-3 policy meeting.  The central bank is likely to offer a program of Treasury
purchases worth a few hundred billion dollars over several
months at its next meeting, the Wall Street Journal said today.  $61 Billion a Month  Should the Fed’s plan resemble its $300 billion of Treasury
purchases in 2009, focusing on recently issued securities, the
central bank will probably buy about $61 billion of government
securities per month, said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader
in New York at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  Fed policy makers, who already cut  interest rates  almost to
zero and bought $1.7 trillion of securities, are discussing more
purchases of Treasuries to flood markets with cheap money to
prevent stagnating prices from undermining the recovery. The
policy is sometimes called QE2 because it will be Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s second effort at quantitative easing.  Pimco’s Gross, manager of the world’s largest bond fund,
wrote that Fed “check-writing in the trillions is not a
bondholder’s friend.”  “It is in fact inflationary, and, if truth be told,
somewhat of a Ponzi scheme,” Gross wrote in his monthly
investment outlook posted on Newport Beach, California-based
Pimco’s website today. “It raises bond prices to create the
illusion of high annual returns, but ultimately it reaches a
dead end where those prices can no longer go up.”  Cut Holdings  Gross, co-founder of Pimco, reduced holdings of government-
related debt in the $252 billion  Total Return Fund  for the third
straight month in September, to 33 percent, after the securities
accounted for 63 percent of assets in June.  At today’s auction, indirect bidders, a class of investors
that includes foreign central banks, purchased 39.5 percent of
the five-year notes, versus a 44.9 percent average for the past
10 sales. Direct bidders, non-primary dealers that place their
bids directly with the Treasury, bought 11.7 percent, compared
with an average 11.3 percent at the past 10 offerings.  A sale of $35 billion of two-year notes yesterday drew
higher-than-average demand amid speculation the Fed’s efforts
won’t bring the economy back to full speed quickly. The U.S.
will sell $29 billion of seven-year notes tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  