-- Treasury 10-Year Notes Post Longest Slide Since 2008 on Fed Easing Outlook
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-10-27T16:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/treasuries-decline-for-sixth-consecutive-day-after-durable-goods-increase.html
Treasury  10-year notes dropped for a
sixth day, the longest streak in two years, as a report showing
new-home sales rose more than forecast added to speculation a
Federal Reserve program to boost the economy may be gradual.  Thirty-year  yields climbed for a second day while two-year
yields were little changed amid speculation signs of growth will
allow the Fed to buy fewer securities than some traders estimate
in a tactic known as quantitative easing. Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said a renewal of asset purchases
will likely signify the end of a 30-year  bull market  in bonds.
The U.S. will sell $35 billion of five-year notes today.  “Some people are looking for more” quantitative easing,
said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “This doesn’t sound like it’s going
to be that big. There are a lot of concerns whether this will
work at all.”  The yield on the  10-year note  increased three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.68 percent 12:24 p.m. in New
York, according to BGCantor Market Data. It touched 2.71
percent, the highest level since Sept. 20. The yield was up 37
basis points to 3.96 percent after its last six-day string of
increases, which ended Oct. 30, 2008.  The price of the 2.625 percent security due in August 2020
dropped 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 17/32.  Sales of new homes rose 6.6 percent in September to a
307,000 annual rate that exceeded the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today in Washington.  Durable Goods  Bookings for U.S. goods meant to last at least three years
excluding transportation items increased 3.3 percent last month
after dropping 1.3 percent in August, the Commerce Department
also reported today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
was for an increase of 2 percent.  Inflation expectations, as measured by the so-called
breakeven rate between yields on 10-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities and comparable conventional notes,
increased to the most since May 18 as traders increased bets
that quantitative easing will increase consumer prices. The
difference widened to as much as 2.2 percentage points.  Estimates for the ultimate size of the asset-purchase
program range from $1 trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch
Global Research to $2 trillion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., with
economists at both firms agreeing the Fed will likely start by
announcing $500 billion after its Nov. 2-3 policy meeting.  The central bank is likely to offer a program of Treasury
purchases worth a few hundred billion dollars over several
months at its next meeting, the Wall Street Journal said today.  Economic Growth  Third-quarter gross domestic product likely rose at a 2
percent annual pace, up from a 1.7 percent rate in the previous
three months, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before the Oct. 29 report.  Even after climbing for six straight days, 10-year Treasury
yields are within 36 basis points of the lowest since January
2009 as investors expect a second round of asset purchases.  Fed policy makers, who already cut  interest rates  almost to
zero and bought $1.7 trillion of securities, are discussing more
purchases of Treasuries to flood markets with cheap money to
prevent stagnating prices from undermining the recovery. The
policy is sometimes called QE2 because it will be Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s second attempt at using quantitative easing.  Pimco’s Gross, manager of the world’s largest bond fund,
wrote that Fed “check writing in the trillions is not a
bondholder’s friend.”  High-Returns ‘Illusion’  “It is in fact inflationary, and, if truth be told,
somewhat of a Ponzi scheme,” Gross wrote in his monthly
investment outlook posted on Newport Beach, California-based
Pimco’s website today. “It raises bond prices to create the
illusion of high annual returns, but ultimately it reaches a
dead end where those prices can no longer go up.”  Gross, co-founder of Pimco, said in March that bonds may
have seen their best days while making an argument for investors
to own fewer. He reduced holdings of government-related debt in
the $252 billion  Total Return Fund  for the third straight month
in September, to 33 percent, after the securities accounted for
63 percent of assets in June, the highest since it held an equal
amount in October 2009. Pimco doesn’t comment directly on
monthly changes in portfolio holdings.  An auction of $35 billion of two-year notes yesterday drew
higher-than-average demand because of speculation the central
bank’s efforts won’t bring the economy back to full speed
quickly.  Five-Year Auction  The five-year notes being sold today yielded 1.313 percent
in pre-auction trading, compared with 1.26 percent at the prior
sale on Sept. 28, which was a record low. Investors  bid  for 2.96
times the amount on offer last month, more than the average of
2.76 for the past 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders,  the category of investors including
foreign central banks, bought 50.1 percent of the notes, versus
the 10-sale average of 44.9 percent.  The U.S. will auction $290 billion of seven-year notes
tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  