-- Renault, Nissan Seek Troika's Stake in AvtoVAZ, Ghosn Tells Russia Today
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2010-10-27T22:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/renault-nissan-in-talks-to-expand-on-avtovaz-stake-russia-today-reports.html
Renault SA , France’s second-largest
carmaker, and Nissan Motor Co. are in talks with Troika Dialog
about buying its stake in the Russian carmaker  OAO AvtoVAZ ,
Renault Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  told Russia Today.  “We are planning to buy Troika’s stake in AvtoVAZ and we
are in talks about this,” Ghosn said in an interview yesterday
with the television station.  Troika, the Moscow brokerage, Renault and Russian
Technologies, a state holding company, each currently own
25 percent plus one share of AvtoVAZ, the maker of Lada cars.
Renault agreed to pay $1 billion for its stake in the Russian
carmaker in December 2007.  Renault, along with Nissan, its Japanese affiliate, has
been planning to assemble a new line of models for the Russian
market at the AvtoVAZ plant in Togliatti, in the southern part
of the country. Sylvie Blanchet, a spokeswoman for Renault, said
in June that the company had no plans to raise its stake in the
Russian carmaker.  “We’ve always said we’re very happy with our 25 percent
stake, and we continue to be happy with it,” Blanchet said on
June 30.  Oleg Lobanov , vice president for finance at AvtoVAZ, said
Oct. 26 that the carmaker expects net income of 1 billion rubles
($32.6 million) in 2010 under Russian accounting standards.
AvtoVAZ had nine-month net income of 622 million rubles under
Russian standards, he said.  Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said in June that
Russia could acquire part of the French government’s 15 percent
stake in Renault if the carmaker decided to increase its holding
in AvtoVAZ.  “We’ve discussed it recently,” Putin said. “It would be
an interesting, very powerful cooperation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Martin  in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  