-- Republicans Plan Budget Cuts as Early Act If They Take Power
-- B y   P a t r i c k   O ’ C o n n o r
-- 2010-10-27T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/republicans-plan-100-billion-budget-cut-as-early-act-if-they-take-power.html
U.S. House Republicans plan to try
to slash $100 billion from the federal budget as early as
January if they wrest power from Democrats in this year’s
midterm elections, setting up possible early showdowns with
President  Barack Obama  on taxes and spending.  A Republican House takeover would thrust new committee
heads, such as Representative  Dave Camp  on the Ways and Means
panel, into the spotlight within weeks -- or days -- of seizing
their gavels in early January. They would confront quick
political tests that could alienate independent voters and Tea
Party activists alike, analysts said.  “The major issues are going to be fiscal, and fiscal
issues are always contentious,” said  Jack Pitney , a political
science professor at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont,
California.  Carrying out spending cuts that Republicans have pledged
to seek -- which would amount to 21 percent of the government’s
so-called discretionary money pot -- could prove politically
difficult. Reducing funds for programs such as college loans
for low-income students or medical research at the National
Institutes of Health is harder than promising to do that on the
campaign trail.  ‘Political Repercussions’  Republicans “will quickly find out that across-the-board
cuts have political repercussions,” Pitney said.  A lame-duck session of Congress convening two weeks after
the Nov. 2 elections will try to fund the government next year
and deal with Bush-era tax cuts expiring Dec. 31. Prospective
Republican House control could be an obstacle to Democrats in
finishing that work before adjourning. Camp and other
Republicans would then need to grapple with those tasks as they
take over, even as they push their promised budget cuts.  The backdrop is a  federal deficit  that the Congressional
Budget Office said totaled $1.29 trillion in the fiscal year
that ended Sept. 30. At 8.9 percent of the nation’s gross
domestic product, it was the second-biggest shortfall since
1945.  The following reviews the battle lines likely to be drawn
in top House committees under Republican rule, and looks at the
potential panel leaders who would preside over the fights:  Appropriations   If Democrats fail to fund the government through September
2011, the end of the federal fiscal year, this committee would
be the stage for that fight in the new Congress. And settling
on the panel’s chairman would be one of the initial tasks
facing Republicans.  House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio, his party’s
speaker-in-waiting, called for the $100 billion budget cut on
Sept. 23 as part of a governing agenda aimed at wooing voters.
The cuts, which weren’t specified, would come from the $477
billion Congress allocated in 2010 for non-defense domestic
discretionary programs. Social Security and Medicare are among
the programs excluded from the proposed 21 percent reductions
in discretionary spending.  Obama’s request for $73.4 billion for the Department of
Education in the 2011 budget, including $23 billion for Pell
Grants to help low-income students afford college, offers one
example of the tough choices the Republicans would face. A 21
percent cut across-the-board would take about $15 billion from
education. A 21 percent cut in Pell Grants would subtract
almost $5 billion from the program.  HHS Budget  Obama asked Congress for $76.4 billion for the Department
of  Health and Human Services . Almost half that -- $32 billion -
-is for NIH, which includes the National Cancer Institute and
other research facilities. A 21 percent cut would slash NIH
funding by more $6 billion.  The question of which Republican would lead the
Appropriations panel is complicated by the six-year limit the
party placed on how long a lawmaker could serve as its leading
member on a committee.  Representative  Jerry Lewis , a California Republican,
reaches that limit at year’s end. He has said he will seek a
waiver to allow him to take the committee’s helm.  Lewis, 76, initially balked when Boehner pushed House
Republicans to embrace a moratorium on lawmaker-sponsored
projects, known as earmarks. Lewis reversed his position last
year, gaining favor with Boehner.  Representative  Hal Rogers , a Kentucky Republican, would be
the likely committee head if Lewis fails in his bid. Rogers,
72, is known for steering funding for road improvements and
other projects to his state and district. The Lexington,
Kentucky, Herald Leader once dubbed him the “Prince of Pork.”  Financial Services   Representative  Spencer Bachus  of Alabama has two years
left as the leading Republican on this panel, putting him in
line for the chairmanship. Boehner’s staff tried to oust him
two years ago for his handling of negotiations over the
Troubled Asset Relief Program -- they thought he agreed to a
deal that they’d rejected. At this point, it looks like Bachus,
62, will avoid another challenge.  Still, the panel’s Republican membership, currently
dominated by small-government, free-market advocates, could be
reshuffled. Some of the 29 Republican members are expected to
move to Ways and Means, particularly if their party wins the
majority. And as the majority, Republicans could fill at least
12 additional slots on the financial services panel. It would
be a plum assignment for freshmen who might face a tough
contest two years from now, since the committee has become a
good place to raise campaign cash.  The panel would be the scene for any move to revamp
mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Republicans want to
limit the government’s exposure to their loan portfolios.  While some Republicans talk of trying to repeal the
president’s financial-markets overhaul, the party may resist
that, given the virtual certainty of an Obama veto.  Ways and Means   Camp, of Michigan, typically favors policy debates over
political sniping. He has the closest thing to a chairmanship
lock on any of the so-called “A” committees -- which include
Appropriations and Energy and Commerce.  Should the lame-duck Congress end up deadlocked over
extending the income tax cuts enacted under former President
 George W. Bush , Camp’s panel would be at the center of
resolving the impasse. Republicans want to extend the cuts
across the board, contending that would aid a U.S. economy
struggling to grow after the longest recession in seven
decades. Democrats want to limit the extensions, continuing the
lower rates for individual income up to $200,000 and up to
$250,000 for couples filing jointly.  Camp, 57, has advocated making all the cuts permanent.  Budget   One of the few Republicans offering concrete proposals for
cutting federal spending has been Representative  Paul Ryan  of
Wisconsin, who would take the helm of the Budget Committee.  His “Roadmap for America’s Future” would establish a
voucher system for  Medicare , scrap the current tax exemptions
for employer-sponsored health benefits in favor of individual
tax credits, and let workers under the age of 55 steer a
portion of their Social Security taxes into private accounts.  The plan elevated Ryan, 40, from an up-and-comer to a
full-fledged political star. It also became a punching bag for
Democrats, and some Republicans distanced themselves from its
proposals, concerned they would be viewed as too extreme by
independent voters. How vigorously Ryan promotes his ideas in
committee should provide early clues of how much sway the Tea
Party push for significantly limited government has gained.  Energy and Commerce   Representative  Joe Barton  of Texas is term-limited as the
top Republican on this panel, leaving three others likely to
vie for the chairmanship:  John Shimkus , 52, of Illinois,  Cliff Stearns , 69, of Florida, and  Fred Upton , 57, of Michigan, whose
seniority on the committee gives him an edge.  The panel oversees the Department of Health and Human
Services, which would give it a primary role in any bid to
“repeal and replace” the health-care overhaul Obama got
enacted this year. The committee could also keep a spotlight on
the law -- and make changes to it -- through hearings on new
rules the department will be writing to implement it.  Additionally, the panel has authority over the health-care
industry, the energy sector, the telecommunications industry,
and commercial products, including tobacco.  Upton, a journalism major at the University of Michigan,
worked in the Office of Management and Budget under former
President  Ronald Reagan . He has taken some positions, such as
supporting stem-cell research, that put him at odds with most
of his Republican colleagues.  Oversight and Government Reform   Chairmanship of this panel would give Representative
 Darrell Issa  of California subpoena power over the Obama
administration in a Republican House, handing him a political
tool he has said he would use.  Issa, 56, said he wants to work with Obama aides to probe
the Minerals and Management Service and its cozy relationship
with the industries it oversees.  Bipartisan comity might be tough to muster, though, if
Issa also demands testimony from Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  about government bailouts of Wall Street and the auto
industry, or pushes to subpoena White House officials about job
offers made to Democrats who challenged incumbent senators in
primaries.  Judiciary   Any overhaul of immigration laws must go through this
panel, which Representative  Lamar Smith  of Texas would preside
over. Smith, whose first House race in 1986 was run by
Republican political strategist  Karl Rove , wants to shelve any
discussion on such matters as a boost in visas for legal
immigrant workers and a pathway to legal permanent residency
for some of the roughly 11 million undocumented immigrants in
the U.S. to focus solely on securing the border with Mexico.  “I’m still of the mind that we have to secure the border
first,” said Smith, 62.  Transportation and Infrastructure   Obama has made infrastructure spending a priority,
proposing a public-private fund to invest in roads, railways
and an updated air-traffic control system.  Representative  John Mica  of Florida would likely head this
committee for the Republicans. Mica, 67, supports focusing
high-speed rail construction in the Northeast and opposes lines
in Ohio and California that Obama has proposed. Mica also wants
to speed the approval process for federal road-building
projects.  Armed Services   Congress continues to grapple with whether to overturn the
U.S. military’s “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy, which allows
gay and lesbian soldiers to serve on condition they don’t
reveal their sexual orientation. Under a Republican majority,
Representative  Howard P. “Buck” McKeon  of California would
oversee this panel’s debate on the issue.  McKeon, 72, has opposed previous efforts to kill the
policy, most recently saying no change should be made until the
Pentagon issues a report in December on attitudes within the
ranks on such a move.  Foreign Affairs   Representative  Ileana Ros-Lehtinen , a Cuban-born Floridian
who in 1982 became the first Hispanic woman elected to
Congress, would head this committee. The issues facing it
include whether to impose future sanctions on Iran.  Ros-Lehtinen, 58, is a staunch supporter of Israel. In an
Oct. 20 speech, she said “extremists target Israeli citizens
and seek Israel’s destruction. The UN isolates and demonizes
the Jewish state.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  