-- Reserve Bank of New Zealand's Bollard Comments on Rate Decision (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 ]   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y   [ ]
-- 2010-10-27T20:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/reserve-bank-of-new-zealand-s-bollard-comments-on-rate-decision-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a statement released today by the Reserve Bank of New
Zealand, which left its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 3
percent for a second month.  The Reserve Bank today left the Official Cash Rate (OCR)
unchanged at 3.0 percent.  Reserve Bank Governor  Alan Bollard  said: “Despite some
data turning out weaker than projected, the medium-term outlook
for the New Zealand economy remains broadly in line with that
assumed at the time of the September Monetary Policy Statement.  “Downside risks to the outlook for global growth continue,
with high public and private debt inhibiting recovery in many
developed economies. Moreover, it is unclear how further policy
support would impact on the outlook for growth in our Western
trading partners. Offsetting this weakness, strong growth
continues in China, Australia and emerging Asia.  “Domestically, recent data has turned out weaker than
projected. Continued household caution has seen consumer
spending and housing market activity remain muted, and many
firms have become less optimistic about their future prospects.
However, continued high export prices, along with reconstruction
and repairs in Canterbury, will support activity over the coming
year.  “Overall, continued GDP growth is expected to gradually
absorb current surplus capacity over the next few years.
Headline inflation is expected to move higher following the
recent increase in the rate of GST. The subdued state of
domestic demand suggests this inflation spike will have limited
impact on medium-term inflation expectations.  “While it is appropriate to keep the OCR on hold today, it
remains likely that further removal of monetary policy support
will be required at some stage.”  Ends 28 October 2010
 