-- Retail Sales Gain Less Than Expected, Adding to Economic Slowdown Concerns
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-28T00:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/retail-sales-advanced-1-2-in-september-less-than-economist-estimates.html
Japan’s retail sales rose less than
economists expected last month, adding to concern consumers
won’t be able to drive growth in place of slowing demand abroad.  Sales  increased 1.2 percent in September from a year
earlier, the slowest pace this year, the Trade Ministry said
today in Tokyo. The median estimate of 14 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News was for a 3.2 percent gain.  Today’s report underscores Japan’s dependence on overseas
economies for growth as unemployment and deflation at home
discourage consumers from spending. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
Cabinet approved a 5.1 trillion yen ($61 billion) stimulus to
fight deflation and the advancing yen.  “As production keeps slowing, consumer spending is likely
to lose momentum as well,”  Noriaki Matsuoka , an economist at
Daiwa Asset Management Co. in Tokyo, said before the report.
“On a whole, incomes will continue to increase, but the pace of
those improvements will be weak.”  Bank of Japan  Masaaki Shirakawa ’s board is meeting today
after earlier this month cutting the benchmark interest rate and
establishing a 5 trillion yen asset-purchasing fund to jumpstart
the slowing economy. All 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News said the bank will refrain from any action at today’s
gathering.  Help Cope  Kan’s new stimulus is aimed at helping local governments
and small businesses cope with the strengthening currency. The
yen has appreciated more than 10 percent against the dollar this
year, threatening to erode corporate profits and reduce the
competitiveness of Japanese goods sold abroad. It traded at
81.60 at 8:57 a.m. in Tokyo.  The government ended a subsidy program for cars last month
earlier than scheduled as funds for the program ran out.  The drop-off in demand after the end of the car program may
depress consumer spending enough to make the gross domestic
product contract this quarter, said  Azusa Kato , an economist at
BNP Paribas in Tokyo.  Wages gained for a sixth month in August and a report due
tomorrow may show that the  unemployment rate  remained unchanged
at 5.1 percent in September, according to the median estimate of
27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Sales  fell a seasonally adjusted 3 percent last month,
today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  