-- Retailers Bet on City of London's Largest Mall Defying Economy
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-10-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/retailers-gamble-on-city-of-london-s-largest-mall-defying-spending-cuts.html
While British shoppers brace for the
deepest budget cuts in decades, the largest mall in the City of
London financial district opens its doors today as retailers bet
on tourists making up for the drop in domestic spending.  One New Change  includes 220,000 square feet (20,439 square
meters) of retail space housing chains including Top Shop,
Hennes & Mauritz AB, Hugo Boss AG and Marks & Spencer Group Plc.
The mall, developed by Land Securities Group Plc, opens for
business eight days after the government detailed 81 billion
pounds ($128 billion) of cuts and 490,000 job losses.  “U.K. consumption is very difficult at the moment with
government taxes increasing,” said  Virginie Blin , an analyst at
research firm AlphaValue in Paris. “It could be even more
difficult next year because consumption will be impacted by a
lot of tax increases and difficulty in unemployment.”  U.K.  retail sales  unexpectedly dropped in September for a
second month, while Prime Minister  David Cameron’s  coalition
government imposed a 2.5 percentage-point increase in sales tax
to 20 percent starting in January.  One New Change, an eight-story complex with 550,000 square
feet in total of offices, shops and restaurants, will stay open
for more than 14 hours on the weekend, said David Atcherley-
Symes, retail manager for Land Securities.  Tapping Tourists  “If we can be part of the success of the City during the
weekend, making it more of a destination for tourists whether
they’re foreign or from out of town, that’ll be a measure of how
successful this building is,” Atcherley-Symes said in an
interview on the roof of One New Change, with a view to the dome
of  St Paul’s Cathedral . Persuading retailers to open at weekends
“wasn’t easy” he said.  Hugo Boss  said its existing stores in the City were
successful during the week and it took the opportunity to open
on the weekend in One New Change.  “We’ve had a lot of successful tourism this year, which
has kept everything going and with the bigger unit, we’ll have a
wider offer of business-wear for local business but some of our
casual wear as well,” spokesman Daniel Pearce said yesterday in
a telephone interview.  St Paul’s Cathedral attracts two million visitors a year,
according to its website.  The City of London  has featured on its “radar for a long
time and a perfect site has now been made available,”  Mary Homer , managing director of fashion retail chain Topshop, said
in response to e-mailed questions.  Sales, Wages  Retail sales fell 0.2 percent from August, when they
declined 0.7 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said on
Oct. 21. In London, though, higher levels of employment and
earnings are expected to buoy income at retailers.  Employment in the City of London’s square mile is rising
and bank bonuses returning, consulting firm  Morgan McKinley  said
in its London Employment Monitor on Oct. 11.  About 48 percent of bankers expect their bonus in 2010/11
to be higher than the previous year, with 41 percent forecasting
it will remain unchanged, according to the research. The U.K.’s
largest lenders may pay 7 billion pounds in bonuses to staff in
the financial industry this year, the  Centre for Economics &
Business Research Ltd.  has said.  The mix of stores at One New Change, less than 10 minutes
walk from both the Bank of England and the Tate Modern gallery,
will give it a mass-market appeal rather than the current crop
of luxury brands in the area, Colin Burnet, an associate
director at  DTZ Holdings Plc , said in a telephone interview.  “It matches the catchment quite well even though there’s
obviously some very wealthy people in the City,” Burnet said.  ‘Dead’ Weekends  Some people have doubts about whether the mall can attract
shoppers on the weekend to the area, which empties of office
workers on a Friday night only to fill up again on Monday.  “It’s dead around here,” said Fernando Duarte, former
acting store manager at U.K. fashion retailer  Next Plc’s  Bow
Lane store in the City district. “We’ve tried opening at
weekends and we spend more money than we make. You don’t come
into the City to shop in general.”  The Next outlet closed on Oct. 23, according to a notice in
the shop window yesterday. Next is one of the 54 outlets listed
on One New Change’s website.  “The area isn’t going to be a complete ghost town at the
weekends as it’s not really in the heart of the City,” said
 Malcolm Pinkerton , a senior analyst at Verdict Research Ltd.
“It’s not just about shopping, it’s also about socializing.”  The opening of One New Change comes about six months after
Land Securities said it was reviving a 155-meter tower known as
the Walkie-Talkie because of its resemblance to a two-way radio.  The development, in the financial district, was shelved in
2008 as the financial crisis worsened. The Walkie-Talkie will
have 11 percent of One New Change’s retail space and twice as
much office space, Land Securities said.  Since Land Securities reached a 17-year low in March 2009,
its shares have doubled their return through Oct. 26 compared
with a 65 percent advance in rival British Land Co. Plc.  “Where are you going to expand in a recession? You’re
going to expand in the best locations in the best buildings,”
said Atcherley-Symes. “That’s luckily where we are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  