-- Rice Price Likely to Extend Rally as Flooding, Storms Decimate Asian Crop
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-10-27T06:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/rice-price-likely-to-extend-rally-as-flooding-storms-decimate-asian-crop.html
Rice prices are likely to extend a
rally as flooding that’s killed at least 162 people across
Southeast Asia ravages crops in Thailand and Vietnam, the
world’s two biggest exporters.  “Rice production will become an issue next year,” Prasert
Gosalvitra, head of Thailand’s state-run Rice Department, said
in a phone interview from Bangkok. “Supply will become tight,
driving prices higher.”  Potential crop losses in Thailand and floods in central
Vietnam came after harvests in Pakistan were devastated by
flooding earlier this year and Typhoon Megi lashed the
Philippines, the world’s biggest rice buyer, widening the
country’s production deficit.  Crop losses across Asia may push more people deeper into
hunger and poverty, after the worst drought in at least half a
century in Russia and other parts of eastern Europe curbed
supply of wheat, which is milled to make bread, pasta and
noodles and mixed into animal feeds. A surge in agricultural
commodities prices since June helped push the United Nations
Food & Agriculture Organization’s Food Price  Index  to the
highest in more than two years September.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture  lowered  its estimate for
global milled rice output to 452.5 million tons on Oct. 8,
171,000 tons short of forecast demand. The global production
deficit, the first in four years, may be even wider because
typhoons and flooding hit Southeast Asia days after the USDA
released its estimate.  Surging Prices  “It’s not only us,” Prasert said in a phone interview.
“Vietnam, China, Myanmar and Pakistan will see output falling
from flood damage.” Thailand produces two rice crops a year,
with the main crop harvested from late October to April
representing about 75 percent of the country’s output.  The staple food for half the world will likely surge to a
10-month high as weather damage to crops in Pakistan and
Thailand, which represent a combined 43 percent of global
exports, threatens global supplies. The grain has jumped 57
percent from this year’s low of $9.55 per 100 pounds on June 30.
Rice was $76.36-a-ton more expensive than wheat today, after
slumping to a discount of about $53 in August.  “ Prices  can very well go up from today by $100 or even
higher around the end of the year or in January,” Mamadou Ciss,
chief executive officer of Singapore-based Hermes Investments
Pte. and a rice broker since 1984, said by phone from Geneva.
Thai rice prices, the benchmark for Asia, were at $510 a ton on
Oct. 20, close to a six-month high, according to data from the
Thai Rice Exporters Association.  ‘Definite’ Decline  Rough-rice on the Chicago Board of Trade will probably
advance to $16 per 100 pounds, Ciss said. Futures declined for
the first time in 12 days today, snapping the longest winning
streak since at least 1989, and dropped 0.5 percent to $14.985
at 1:31 p.m. in Singapore.  Rough-rice production from the main crop in Thailand, the
world’s biggest exporter, will “definitely” decline and is
estimated to fall by at least 1.5 million tons after the worst
floods in five decades inundated key growing areas, according to
Prasert Gosalvitra, head of the state-run Rice Department. That
would be a 6.5 percent decline from last year’s main crop of 23
million tons. Actual losses won’t be known until floodwaters
recede, he said.  Deaths Rise  Floods spread across 36 provinces in central, north and
northeastern Thailand, affecting at least 3.2 million people and
damaging about 3.5 million rai (1.4 million acres) of
agricultural area, the Department of Disaster Prevention and
Mitigation said in a statement today. The number of people
killed in flooding rose to 59, the Emergency Medical Institute
of Thailand said on its  website  today.  Flooding could cause as much as 24 billion baht worth of
damage and may slash the nation’s economic growth in the fourth
quarter by 1 percentage point, according to Kasikornbank Pcl.  The Thai government halted sales of rice from state
stockpiles and asked the agencies involved to review plans,
deputy government spokesman Marut Masayawanit said yesterday
after a weekly cabinet meeting.  Thailand initially planned to reduce state stockpiles to 1
million tons after sales earlier this year reduced inventories
to around 2 million tons, Taradon Pianphongsant, deputy
secretary-general to the Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva, said
by phone. Revisions will be made based on the level of crop
losses, he said.  Flood Damage  “The suspension of government rice sales may raise supply
concerns and strengthen prices,” said Kiattisak Kanlayasirivat,
a director at Novel Commodities SA’s Thai office, which trades
about $600 million of rice a year. The Thai benchmark rice price
may rise to $550 a ton in November or December, when the
Philippines, the world’s largest buyer, returns to the market to
meet a shortfall widened by damage to crops from Typhoon Megi,
he said.  Pakistan’s deadliest floods last month ruined crops worth
281.6 billion rupees ($3.27 billion), destroying 2.39 million
tons of rice, Farm Minister  Nazar Muhammad Gondal  said Sept. 28.
Pakistan was the world’s third-biggest exporter last year.  Rice production in the U.S., the fourth-biggest exporter,
may be at least 10 percent smaller than estimated, missing a
forecast for record output and pushing prices to as high as $17
per 100 pounds, Dwight A. Roberts, president of the U.S. Rice
Producers Association, said Oct. 12.  Typhoon Megi  A La Nina weather event this year has brought heavier-than-
usual rainfall to parts of Australia and Asia, including
Thailand. The weather event will intensify around the end of the
year, Thailand’s Meteorological Department has said.  Typhoon Megi, the strongest storm to hit the Philippines
this year, affected 22 percent of the 1.86 million hectares
planted with rice, the Department of Agriculture said in a
statement e-mailed today.  Losses reported from the department’s local units have so
far reached 468,546 tons, about 6 percent of the forecast
fourth-quarter harvest, the department said. The nation may lose
600,000 tons of its rice crop, Agriculture Undersecretary
Antonio Fleta said Oct. 18, two days before the typhoon made
landfall.  Still, the nation will buy no more than 2 million metric
tons of the grain for next year’s supply even after Typhoon Megi
damaged crops, Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala said.  The government of President Benigno Aquino wants to reduce
the nation’s rice imports after the state-run National Food
Authority debts ballooned to 177 billion pesos ($4.1 billion),
from about 45 billion pesos in 2005.  President Benigno Aquino is considering reducing government
rice subsidies to contain a budget deficit projected to widen to
a record this year.  The Southeast Asian nation, which has contracted to buy
2.47 million tons this year, is still assessing the extent of
the damage to the harvest to determine the volume of rice it
needs to purchase for 2011 and will decide on the amount next
month, Alcala said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi  Ann  Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  