-- Romanian Governing Coalition Survives No-Confidence Vote in Parliament
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2010-10-27T15:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/romanian-government-may-survive-no-confidence-motion-as-lawmakers-abstain.html
Romanian Prime Minister  Emil Boc 
survived a no-confidence vote in parliament for the second time
in four months as his coalition government maintained unity amid
street protests against austerity measures.  Opposition lawmakers fell short of the majority needed in
the 470-seat chamber, Senate Chairman Mircea Geoana said. The
motion was filed by the Social Democrats and Liberals to derail
Boc’s plan to cut public wages and increase taxes to meet
budget-deficit targets set by the  International Monetary Fund  as
a condition for a 20 billion-euro ($28 billion) bailout. The
parties said the moves delayed Romania’s recovery from the worst
 recession  on record.  About 30,000 state workers took to the streets in Bucharest
today to protest against the public pay cuts and government
plans to fire about 74,000 people this year. They demanded a
reversal of the measures and Boc’s resignation while trying to
pressure coalition lawmakers to vote for the motion.  “Romania is at a crossroads today: we either go ahead with
the reforms and pull Romania out of a crisis or we give in to
populism and compromise the country’s chances to exit the
recession and return to growth in 2011,” Boc told parliament
before the vote. “I understand the discontent and hardship, but
our responsible policy is the right and sustainable path.”  Boycott  The ruling coalition, which has 256 seats, survived a June
no-confidence motion by eight votes and has lost two lawmakers
to the opposition since then. Government lawmakers abstained
from voting to help ensure the no-confidence motion failed.
Members of parliament vote by placing a ball indicating ‘yes’ or
‘no’ in an urn located in a room where all deputies are present.
While the vote itself is secret, Boc was able to see whether any
coalition members cast ballots.  The government cut  public-sector wages  by 25 percent and
increased the value-added tax to 24 percent to qualify for loans
from the IMF, the  European Union  and other lenders as Romania
recovers from its deepest recession on record. The Cabinet plans
to narrow the deficit to 4.4 percent of gross domestic product
next year after it ballooned to 7.2 percent in 2009.  “It is a motion that has nothing to do with the interest
of Romanian citizens,” Adriean Videanu, deputy president of the
Democrat-Liberal party, a coalition member, said on Oct. 25.  The Romanian leu has dropped 1 percent against the euro
this year, the second-worst performance among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, trailing only the Hungarian
forint. The leu was little changed at 4.2733 per euro as of 6:07
p.m. in Bucharest. The cost of protecting against non-payment of
Romanian government bonds for five years rose to 303.2 basis
points yesterday from 275.7 on Oct. 14.  ‘Crossroads’  “The country is now at the crossroads, and strong
decisions should be made in terms of reducing public expenses,”
said  Vincent Alexandre , an emerging-markets economist at  BNP
Paribas  SA in Paris, in a phone interview.  Workers across east Europe are protesting budget cuts after
the global financial crisis slashed state revenue and investment
flows. The EU is demanding that member governments bring budget
deficits in line with the bloc’s limit of 3 percent of GDP after
Greece’s ballooning debt undermined confidence in the euro.  Romania’s  economic  decline has slowed after a 7.1 percent
contraction in 2009. Second-quarter GDP shrank 0.5 percent from
a year earlier as demand for the country’s cars, chemicals,
steel and textiles increased in western Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  