-- Roque Santa Cruz, Carlos Tevez May Leave Manchester City: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-10-27T09:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/roque-santa-cruz-carlos-tevez-may-leave-manchester-city-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from European newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Homesick Tevez?  Manchester City  may lose both  Carlos Tevez  and  Roque Santa Cruz , the  Guardian  reported.  “He wants to be among his people, who are in Argentina,”
the paper quoted Santa Cruz as saying on Spanish radio about
Tevez.  Tevez, whose contract expires in 2014, recently said he is
not “enjoying the life of a footballer,” in England. His
siblings and daughters all live in his native Argentina.  Santa Cruz wants to leave Manchester City during the
January transfer window because he’s not getting enough playing
time under manager  Roberto Mancini .  City may receive an offer for Santa Cruz from  Fulham , the
 Daily Mail  reported.  Wayne ‘Was Never Going to Leave’  Wayne Rooney  said he “was never going to leave  Manchester
United ,” after an angry fan confronted the England player in a
hotel in Dubai, the  Sun  reported.  The striker and his wife in Dubai on a holiday after Rooney
last week signed a new five-year contract, two days after he
said he wanted to leave the 18-time English soccer champion.  Ferguson Ties in O’Shea  United manager  Alex Ferguson  has offered defender  John O’Shea  a contract worth 16.5 million pounds ($26 million), the
 Sun  said.  The offer is part of Ferguson’s strategy to make the club’s
top players commit to the club. Defender  Patrice Evra  and
midfielder Anderson have all been offered new deals.  No Spending Spree at Liverpool  Liverpool  manager  Roy Hodgson  won’t be targeting any big-
name signings during the January transfer window because the
club’s new owner wants to rein in spending, the  Daily Telegraph 
reported.  New England Sports Ventures LLC, the owners of the Boston
Red Sox, bought the team on Oct. 15 for 300 million pounds after
a forced sale by its previous owners,  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett .  Former Liverpool manager  Rafael Benitez  spent 230 million
pounds on new players over six years. The new owners want to put
more emphasis on a scouting system and buying cheaper players
instead of signing expensive stars, the paper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  