-- Rousseff Increases Lead to 15 Points in Brazil Runoff Poll by CNT/Sensus
-- B y   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-10-27T15:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/rousseff-increases-lead-to-15-2-in-brazil-runoff-sensus-poll-reports.html
Brazilian presidential frontrunner
 Dilma Rousseff  tripled her lead over opposition rival  Jose Serra 
four days ahead of the country’s runoff, a Sensus poll showed.  Support for Rousseff, President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s
former Cabinet chief, rose to 51.9 percent from 46.8 percent in
the previous Sensus poll taken Oct. 18-19. Support for Serra, a
former Sao Paulo governor, declined to 36.7 percent from 41.8
percent. Serra, 68, trails Rousseff by 15.2 percentage points,
up from five points in the previous poll.  The poll surveyed 2,000 people from Oct. 23-25 and has a
margin of error of 2.2 percentage points.  Near-daily allegations of government corruption are failing
to cut into Rousseff’s support among voters who are  content  with
Lula’s track  record  for creating  jobs  and reducing poverty, said
 Andre Cesar , founder of Brasilia-based political risk analysis
firm CAC.  “The opposition didn’t present anything new on the
economic front to win voters in the second round,” Cesar said
in a telephone interview. “Rousseff is a clear favorite to
win.”  Brazil’s currency, the real, fell 0.8 percent to 1.7166 per
U.S. dollar at 11:54 a.m. New York time.  Economic Issues  Support for Rousseff, 62, rose and backing for Serra fell
in four out of five Brazilian regions as themes such as abortion
and religion faded and candidates focused on the economy, said
 Clesio Andrade , head of the National Transport Confederation,
which commissioned the poll. Lula, who is barred from seeking a
third consecutive term under Brazil’s constitution, campaigned
actively with Rousseff over the past week.  “The return of President Lula to the campaign helped
produce these results,” Andrade told reporters in Brasilia.  Rousseff won 46.9 percent of votes in the first-round
ballot on Oct. 3, to Serra’s 32.6 percent. Her lead dwindled
immediately following the vote, according to polls, shrinking to
4.1 percentage points in an Oct. 11-13 Sensus survey. As that
poll had a margin of error of 2.2 percentage points, Rousseff
and Serra were technically tied.  Now the candidates’ accusations are tending to cancel each
other out, said  Ricardo Guedes , director of the Sensus
Institute. Speaking to reporters in Brasilia, Guedes said voters
are focusing more on discussion of the issues, which benefits
Rousseff because voters expect her to maintain Lula’s policies
that have lifted 21 million Brazilians out of poverty since 2003
and created more than 14 million jobs. Latin America’s biggest
economy will grow 7.3 percent this year, according to central
bank estimates.  Investor Focus  With Rousseff’s election looking more assured, investors
will continue to focus on the composition of the next economic
team, HSBC Global Research’s  Clyde Wardle  said in a  note  to
clients today. The markets would welcome a “prompt replacement
of Finance Minister Mantega -- leading proponent of the currency
war,” and would favor a central bank president with “political
clout to withstand pressures to intervene even more
aggressively” to support Brazil’s real, the report added.  Serra and Rousseff will take part in a final live debate
tomorrow night on TV Globo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  