-- Rubber Futures Decline From 27-Month High as Dollar's Strength Cuts Appeal
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2010-10-27T08:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/rubber-futures-decline-from-27-month-high-as-dollar-s-strength-cuts-appeal.html
Rubber slumped on concern that China
may tighten trading rules to curb excessive speculation, and as
a stronger dollar reduced the appeal of commodities as
alternative assets.  The April-delivery contract declined as much as 1.4 percent
to 335.7 yen per kilogram ($4,107 a metric ton) on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange before settling at 337 yen. Shanghai futures
plunged as much as 4.4 percent to 31,210 yuan ($4,669) a ton
after reaching a record 33,320 yuan yesterday.  Commodities in China snapped a rally as the Zhengzhou
Commodity Exchange yesterday increased the margin requirement
for rice, rapeseed oil, wheat and sugar trading to 8 percent
from 3 percent or 4 percent. The exchange will track
“abnormal” trading and recommend investigation by watchdogs, a
separate statement dated Oct. 25 said.  “Rubber came under pressure amid speculation that China
may be attempting to cap raw materials prices to curb
inflation,”  Shuji Sugata , research manager at Mitsubishi Corp.
Futures Ltd. in Tokyo, said today by phone.  China’s increased liquidity after the financial crisis and
government curbs on property investments have stoked commodity
prices. In the past six months, cotton in Zhengzhou returned 61
percent, rubber in Shanghai gained 34 percent, zinc in Shanghai
rose 9.2 percent, while Dalian soybean oil rose 20 percent.  “The government has had to battle anything from
speculation in mung beans to garlic in the past and has shown
increasing signs of wanting to intervene in futures,”  Tommy Xiao , analyst at Shanghai JC Intelligence Co., said by phone
from Shanghai. “But it’s like the game Whack-A-Mole: as they
knock down one product, another one pops up.”  Dollar Strength  Rubber futures also declined because of a strengthening
dollar, said  Chaiwat Muenmee , analyst at commodity broker D.S.
Futures. The dollar rose to a one-week high against the euro
amid speculation more debt purchases by the Federal Reserve will
help revive economic growth.  The dollar gained as high as $1.3771 per euro, the most
since Oct. 20, before trading at $1.3793 at 4:44 p.m. in Tokyo.  The U.S. economy probably grew at a faster pace in the
third quarter. Gross domestic product rose at a 2 percent annual
pace, up from a 1.7 percent rate in the previous three months,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the Oct. 29 Commerce Department report.  The rubber cash price in Thailand gained 0.2 percent to
120.55 baht ($4.02) per kilogram today, boosted by worries that
increasing rains in Thailand’s southern provinces will lower
production amid persistent demand from processors, the Rubber
Research Institute of Thailand said on its website. Prices will
likely advance in the short term, the institute said.  Losses Limited  Rubber losses may be limited as reports on tightening
supply should support prices, Chaiwat at D.S. Futures said. Rain
continues to disrupt tapping among key producers, he said.  A natural rubber supply shortage will likely “worsen” in
the fourth quarter as unseasonal rainfall continues to disrupt
production from key growers,  the Association of Natural Rubber
Producing Countries  said.  Output in Thailand, the largest producer and exporter, is
estimated to fall 3.9 percent in the fourth quarter to 933,000
tons, the group said in a monthly bulletin.  Output in China and India is expected to contract during
October to December because of heavy rain, the group said. India
has scaled down its production forecast this year to 844,000
tons from 879,000 tons estimated earlier, while China cut its
2010 output forecast to 641,000 tons, a decline of 0.3 percent
from the previous year, the group said.  Global rubber production this year is unlikely to increase
more than 5.3 percent to 9.4 million tons, from a previous
forecast of 6.3 percent, the association said. A further cut in
output is expected because of tapping disruptions in Malaysia,
Thailand and India, the group said.  “Marked change in supply scenario is remote in 2011 given
the fact that yielding area is unlikely to expand before 2012,”
Jom Jacob, the group’s senior economist, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net  