-- Ruble Analysts Half as Bullish on Dollar Demand, Exchange-Rate Flexibility
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-10-27T14:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/ruble-analysts-half-as-bullish-on-dollar-demand-exchange-rate-flexibility.html
The  ruble  may appreciate half as
much as previously estimated by the end of the year as the need
to repay loans and a more flexible exchange-rate regime bolster
demand for foreign currency, analysts say.  Russia’s currency may gain 2.6 percent to 35 versus the
central bank’s dollar-euro basket by the end of 2010, according
to the median estimate of 15 economists and currency strategists
surveyed by Bloomberg last week. A poll of 13 analysts last
month had the currency 5.6 percent stronger than today’s levels
at 34 by the end of the year against the basket, which the
regulator uses to limit swings that harm exporters.  “The ruble action over the last few weeks has been
increasingly dependent on flows and banks’ rising demand for
foreign currency,”  Simon Quijano-Evans , Vienna-based head of
emerging-market economics and strategy at Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux SA, said by mobile telephone from London. “The
increasing flexibility of the ruble also plays a part.”  Russian companies need to pay back almost $13 billion of
foreign-currency debt in December, the most since at least July,
according to  central bank data . Demand for dollars and euros
will subdue the ruble’s gains until the end of 2010, said
Quijano-Evans, who sees the currency at 34.5 by year-end to the
basket.  Relaxing Boundaries  The currency weakened 0.9 percent to 30.65 per dollar by
the 5 p.m. close of trading in Moscow today, the lowest in a
week. It lost 0.2 percent to 42.34 per euro. Those movements
left it 0.5 percent weaker at 35.9105 versus the basket, which
is calculated by multiplying the dollar-ruble rate by 0.55, the
euro-ruble rate by 0.45, then adding them together.  Bank Rossii  widened the ruble’s so-called “floating
corridor” against its target basket twice since Oct. 13 and
pledged to further relax its boundaries should interventions top
$650 million, according to central bankers  Alexei Ulyukayev  and
 Sergey Shvetsov . The Moscow-based central bank is aiming to let
the ruble trade freely by 2012 and is becoming more “marginal”
on the currency markets, First Deputy Chairman Ulyukayev said
Oct. 5.  The ruble is the fifth-worst performing emerging-market
currency against the dollar this year, falling 1.2 percent.
Brazil’s real has gained 2.3 percent since the beginning of
2010, the Turkish lira added 3.9 percent and the South Korean
won strengthened 2.4 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Deposits Rise  Deposits in foreign currencies rose in September for the
first time this year, reaching 21 percent of total Russian
savings, from 20.8 percent in August, Kommersant reported today,
citing Bank Rossii data. Deposits in dollars, euros and other
international currencies were 26.4 percent of the total in
January, the Moscow-based newspaper said.  The corridor is of less relevance to ruble traders now
because the central bank is intervening within the band, not
just at its borders,  Aurelija Augulyte , an emerging-markets
analyst in Copenhagen at Nordea Bank AB, wrote in a research
note e-mailed Oct. 25.  Bank Rossii now engages in two modes of intervention,
Augulyte said. The regulator buys or sells foreign currency
inside the corridor based on oil prices in order to limit the
impact of inflows on the trade balance as well as intervening at
the boundaries of the band. The so-called “boundary”
interventions result in the corridor widening should the central
bank be forced to buy or sell more than $650 million, she said.  ‘A Temporary Thing’  The current corridor is 32.95 to 36.95, according to
Nordea, which sees the ruble at 34.40 against the basket by
year-end. Bank Rossii refuses to reveal the parameters of the
band.  The ruble will strengthen to 34.40 by the end of March next
year, according to the median forecast of 13 analysts in the
Bloomberg survey. The median in last month’s survey was more
bullish, with the ruble to appreciate to 33.50.  “This will be a temporary thing for the ruble and I expect
action to get more positive from the start of 2011,” said
Quijano-Evans, who predicts the ruble will reach 33.70 by the
end of the first quarter. “The rise in external debt repayments
is set to fall and so there will be less demand for foreign
currency.”  Companies’ external debt obligations will drop to $3.1
billion in January, and $2.8 billion in February, Bank Rossii
data shows.  Ruble Bulls  Options traders remain bullish on the ruble, with the
currency’s one-week risk reversal rate -- the premium of put
options over calls -- at 0.5 percent for the fourth trading day
today, from as high as 1.5 percent last week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Non-deliverable forwards, known as NDFs,
which provide a guide to expectations of currency movements and
interest-rate differentials, show the ruble weakening to 30.868
per dollar in three months.  Russia’s dollar bonds due 2020 fell for the 10th straight
day, the longest losing streak since the notes were sold in
April, pushing the yield up four basis points to 4.44 percent,
the highest since Oct. 4.  Bank Rossii won’t change any of its key interest rates
before the end of this year, with the refinancing, deposit and
repo rates remaining at 7.75 percent, 2.5 percent and 5 percent
respectively, according to the median of economists surveyed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  