-- Russia Uncovers 35,000 Cases of Corruption, Accuses Four Deputy Governors
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-10-27T13:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/russia-uncovers-35-000-cases-of-corruption-accuses-four-deputy-governors.html
Russian police uncovered 35,000
cases of corruption in the first nine months of this year,
including alleged crimes by four deputy governors and five
regional ministers.  Major bribe-taking increased by 17.5 percent from January
to September compared with the same period of 2009, the Interior
Ministry said in a statement distributed to reporters today. The
average size of a bribe increased 1.5 times to around $1,400.  “We understand that you can’t overcome corruption in one
year,” Alexander Nazarov, deputy head of the ministry’s
economic crimes department, said at a briefing outside Moscow.
“We are trying to minimize this problem so it doesn’t affect
the development of the economy.”  Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, according
to Berlin-based Transparency International’s 2010  Corruption
Perceptions Index  released yesterday, sliding to 154th among 178
countries and placing it alongside Tajikistan and Kenya.  While President  Dmitry Medvedev  vowed to combat corruption
when he was elected in 2008, Russians surveyed at the end of
July ranked the inability of  Vladimir Putin , now the prime
minister, to deal with the issue during his 10 years in power as
the administration’s biggest failure.  Police said on Oct. 21 they were seeking the former deputy
head of government in the Moscow region and his wife, believed
to be in the U.S., over the alleged embezzlement of $1 billion.
The authorities, who have detained the region’s former deputy
finance chief in the same case, said they managed to recover
$820 million of the misappropriated assets.  Russians pay bribes totaling $300 billion a year,
equivalent to almost a quarter of gross domestic product,
according to Kirill Kabanov, head of the National Anti-
Corruption Committee. Medvedev’s promises to reduce corruption
won’t succeed unless law enforcement is improved, he said in an
interview yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 