-- SAIC Motor Third-Quarter Profit Jumps 47% on GM, VW
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-27T11:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/saic-motor-third-quarter-profit-jumps-47-on-gm-vw-update1-.html
SAIC Motor Corp. , China’s largest
domestic automaker, boosted third-quarter profit 47 percent as
it sold more cars with partners General Motors Co. and
Volkswagen AG in the world’s biggest auto market.  Net income  for the quarter climbed to 3.7 billion yuan
($554 million) from 2.53 billion yuan a year earlier, the
Shanghai-based automaker said in a statement to the city’s stock
exchange today. Sales more than doubled to 81.6 billion yuan.  SAIC, which sells Buick Excelle compacts and VW Passat
sedans on the mainland, increased car sales as government
incentives and rising incomes spurred demand. The company’s
sales in the third quarter rose 21 percent to 884,998 units from
a year earlier, outperforming rivals  BYD Co.  and  Geely
Automobile Holdings Ltd .  “It won’t be too difficult for SAIC to maintain steady
profit growth,” said  Zhang Xin , an auto analyst with Guotai
Junan Securities Co. in Beijing. “They’ve got a good strategy
to develop their brands and can keep their production costs
under control,” Zhang said before the earnings were released.  SAIC  fell 5 percent to close at 20.91 yuan in Shanghai
trading today. The shares have risen 4 percent this year,
compared with a 9 percent fall in the benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index.  Own-Brand Vehicles  The company makes cars and minivans in partnerships with
Detroit-based GM, and cars in a 50-50 venture with  Volkswagen .
GM and Volkswagen are the two largest overseas automakers in
China, according to the  China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers .  SAIC  raised its stake in Shanghai General Motors Corp, the
two companies’ car-manufacturing venture by 1 percent to 51
percent in March, allowing them to record the partnership’s
total sales into its financial accounts.  SAIC aims to sell 3 million cars this year, including
180,000 own-brand vehicles, President  Chen Hong  said in March.
The automaker, which owns the Roewe and MG sports-car brands,
sold more than 2.66 million vehicles in the first nine months,
up 36 percent from the year before, it said Oct. 11.  SAIC-GM Stake  SAIC, headed by chairman  Hu Maoyuan , has been expanding co-
operation with its U.S. partner this year. The Chinese automaker
and GM will start exporting the Chevrolet Sail, a sedan it
produces under the partnership, to Chile this month, GM said.
The car will eventually be sold in South America, North Africa
and the Middle East.  The two carmakers also formed a partnership to sell low-
cost vehicles in India last December. SAIC-GM-Wuling Automotive
Co., SAIC and GM’s minivan venture, will also introduce its
first car in China under the newly created Baojun brand on Nov.
18, the carmakers said.  China’s passenger-car sales to dealerships rose to 19.3
percent in September, the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said in an e-mailed statement on Oct. 12.  For the nine months through September, SAIC said its profit
more than doubled to 9.58 billion yuan.  The company said a statement to Shanghai’s stock exchange
said on Oct. 12 its net income may have risen more than 140
percent in the first nine months of the year from 3.97 billion
yuan.  -- Liza Lin , with assistance from  Wang Ying  in Beijing. Editors:
 Ian Rowley ,  Ben Richardson .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Hong Kong at +86-21-6104-7010 or
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  