-- Sales of U.S. New Homes Increased Again in September
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-27T14:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/sales-of-u-s-new-homes-increased-in-september-for-second-month.html
Sales of  new homes  rose in September
for a second month to a pace that signals the industry is
struggling to overcome the effects of a jobless rate hovering
near 10 percent.  Purchases increased 6.6 percent to a 307,000 annual rate
that exceeded the  median forecast  of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, figures from the Commerce Department showed today
in Washington. Demand is hovering near the record-low 282,000
reached in May.  A lack of jobs is preventing Americans from gaining the
confidence needed to buy, overshadowing declines in borrowing
costs and prices that are making houses more affordable. At the
same time, foreclosure moratoria at some banks, including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., signal the industry will redouble efforts
to tighten lending rules, which may depress housing even more.  “These are still very low levels,” said Jim O’Sullivan,
global chief economist at MF Global Ltd. in New York.
“Ultimately, a significant recovery in housing will depend on a
clear pickup in employment.”  Another Commerce Department report today showed orders for
non-military capital equipment excluding airplanes dropped in
September, indicating gains in business investment will cool.  Capital Goods Demand  Bookings for such goods, including computers and machinery
meant to last at least three years, fell 0.6 percent after a 4.8
percent gain in August that was smaller than previously
estimated.  Total orders  climbed 3.3 percent last month, led by a
doubling in aircraft demand.  Stocks fell, snapping a five-day gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, on the durable goods report and investor
speculation that steps taken by the Federal Reserve to shore up
the economy will be gradual. The S&P 500 fell 0.5 percent to
1,179.8 at 10:14 a.m. in New York.  Economists forecast new home sales would increase to a
300,000 annual pace from a 288,000 rate in August, according to
the median of 73 survey projections. Estimates ranged from
270,000 to 330,000.  The median price increased 3.3 percent from September 2009
to $223,800.  Purchases rose in three of four regions, led by a 61 percent
jump in the Midwest. Purchases dropped 9.9 percent in the West.  Less Supply  The supply of homes at the current sales rate fell to 8
months’ worth, down from 8.6 months in August. There were 204,000
new houses on the market at the end of September, the fewest
since July 1968.  Reports earlier this month showed the housing market is
hovering at recession levels. Housing starts increased in
September to an annual rate of 610,000, the highest since April,
while building permits fell to the lowest level in more than a
year, signaling construction will probably cool.  Sales of  existing homes , which now make up more than 90
percent of the market, increased by 10 percent to a 4.53 million
rate in September, the National Association of Realtors said
yesterday. The pace was still the third-lowest on record going
back a decade.  Home resales are tabulated when a contract is closed, while
new-home sales are counted at the time an agreement is signed,
making them a leading indicator of demand.  Moratoria’s Influence  Economists are debating the likely effect on new-home sales
from the foreclosure moratoria and regulators’ probes into faulty
paperwork. Most agree the moratoria pose a risk to housing sales
as a whole.  Michelle Meyer , a senior economist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Global Research in New York, is among those who say
the moratoria, by limiting the supply of existing homes, may lift
demand for newly built houses in coming months.  “There is a possibility there will be a shift in demand for
new construction, at least in the short term,” she said.  The U.S. central bank and other regulators are
“intensively” examining financial firms’ home-foreclosure
practices and expect preliminary findings next month, Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week at a housing conference
in Arlington, Virginia.  Fed officials have signaled they may start another round of
unconventional monetary easing at their next meeting Nov. 2-3 to
try to spur the economic recovery.  Homebuilders say labor-market conditions will be the biggest
factor in spurring or delaying a recovery.  “The U.S. economy needs to improve, and we’ve got to see
some improvement in job creation,”  Larry Sorsby  , chief
financial officer at Hovnanian Enterprises Inc., the largest
homebuilder in New Jersey, said during an Oct. 7 conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  