-- Samsung Beats Apple, Coca-Cola as Top ‘Titan’ Pick: Chart of Day
-- B y   L e e   M i l l e r   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-10-27T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/samsung-beats-apple-coca-cola-as-top-titan-pick-chart-of-day.html
Samsung Electronics Co. is a better
stock investment than Apple Inc.,  Coca-Cola Co .,  Google Inc . or
any of the largest multinational companies, according to analyst
recommendations compiled by Bloomberg.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the South Korean electronics
maker has a 4.9 investment rating out of a possible 5, based on
40 analyst recommendations compiled by Bloomberg. Samsung is
followed by Coca-Cola’s 4.78 rating and Apple’s 4.75 in the Dow
Jones Global Titans Index, which tracks the 50 biggest companies
based on market capitalization outside of  China .  Samsung, the world’s top maker of televisions, memory
chips, flat screens and the No. 2 producer of mobile phones, is
better positioned to capitalize on a recovery in the global
economy because of its range of products, said Hwang Yu Sik, a
Seoul-based analyst at SK Securities Co. The company may widen
its lead as it invests 26 trillion won ($23 billion) this year,
more than any technology company, for upgrading its production
facilities and on research and development.  “Ultimately, it comes down to the fact that the company
continues to have growth potential,” said Hwang, who has a
"buy" rating on Samsung. “They’re retaining top-tier positions
in various sectors.”  Samsung’s ability to develop products that can compete with
such devices as Google TV and  Apple Inc .’s iPhone will make it
competitive next year, mitigating a risk from fluctuations in
chip prices, Hwang said.  Samsung’s stock, which closed at 763,000 won in Seoul
yesterday, appears to be cheap, based on its earnings and market
capitalization, said Han Seung Hoon, who has a "buy" rating on
Samsung as an analyst at Korea Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul . JPMorgan Chase & Co. and UBS AG are the only brokers that
have ratings equivalent to "hold" on Samsung, with the remaining
38 having "buy" ratings, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee J. Miller in Bangkok at 
 lmiller@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 