-- SAP Net Rises 12%, Short of Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-27T16:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/sap-third-quarter-profit-rises-12-short-of-analysts-estimates.html
SAP AG , the world’s biggest maker of
business-management software, said third-quarter profit rose 12
percent, missing analysts’ estimates. The stock fell the most
in almost six months.  Net  income based on International Financial Reporting
Standards climbed to 501 million euros ($691 million), from 447
million euros in the year-earlier period, the company said in a
statement today. Analysts had predicted that profit to be 553
million euros, according to the average of 16 estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 20 percent to 3 billion euros.  “People might have hoped for more” after the recent
strong rise in SAP shares,  Knut Woller , an analyst at Unicredit
in Munich, said by phone. “There is also some profit-taking
after we didn’t see a big surprise.”  SAP, like rival  Oracle Corp. , is looking to expand into new
business areas to protect market share. The Walldorf, Germany-
based company, which provides software for the order fulfillment
behind  Apple Inc.’s  iTunes download system and is used by
companies for payroll management, is expanding to applications
accessed via the Internet and mobile devices.  SAP  fell  2.8 percent to 37.23 euros in Frankfurt trading,
the biggest decline since May, valuing the company at 45.7
billion euros. The shares have climbed 13 percent this year.  Hewlett Packard Co.  hired former SAP CEO  Leo Apotheker  as
chief effective Nov. 1, spurring speculation that the two firms
could become closer or even merge. SAP is “a very strong
company and an independent company, and these are nothing but
speculative rumors,” SAP’s co-CEO  Bill McDermott  said on a
conference call with reporters today.  All Regions  SAP’s software and related services sales rose 20 percent
from a year earlier to 2.32 billion euros. Software license
sales, seen as a gauge of future maintenance and upgrade fees,
advanced 25 percent to 656 million euros.  SAP’s growth opportunities are “sustainable,” co-CEO  Jim Hagemann Snabe  said in an interview on Bloomberg TV.  The company is targeting greater  revenue  from so-called
“on-demand” software, which doesn’t involve annual license
fees from clients.  The results were “all in all OK, but nothing
spectacular,” said  Stephan Wittwer , an analyst at Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart. “The price pressure has
relaxed a bit” from SAP’s big corporate clients, who pushed to
lower costs during the global recession, he said.  “All the regions reported growth in the third quarter,
with particular strength in the U.S. and the emerging markets of
Asia, Europe and Latin America,” Chief Financial Officer  Werner Brandt  said in the statement.  Outlook  The third-quarter figures include the contribution of
Sybase Inc., which SAP bought this year.  SAP reiterated its full-year outlook of non-IFRS software
and software-related service revenue growth of 9 percent to 11
percent at constant currency rates.  It expects 2010 non-IFRS 
operating margins to be in the 30 percent to 31 percent range.  Oracle in September  reported fiscal first-quarter profit 
and revenue that beat analysts’ estimates, helped by sales of
database software and Sun Microsystems servers.  Net income at the Redwood City, California-based company
climbed 20 percent to $1.35 billion.  The world’s second-largest business software manufacturer,
wants to “play in every important industry,” Oracle Chief
Executive Officer  Larry Ellison  said last month.  Building on a run of more than 65 acquisitions during the
past five years, Oracle is looking to purchase semiconductor
companies and makers of industry-specific software, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net . 