-- Saudi Shares Fall For First Time in Week as Oil, Emerging Markets Retreat
-- B y   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 2010-10-27T10:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/saudi-shares-fall-for-first-time-in-week-as-oil-emerging-markets-retreat.html
Saudi Arabian shares retreated for
the first time in a week as oil declined and emerging markets
stocks slid on speculation a possible Federal Reserve asset-
purchase program will fail to meet investor expectation.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp.,  the world’s largest
petrochemical maker known as Sabic, ended a four-day winning
streak.  National Industrialization Co. , the petrochemical maker
known as Tasnee, fell 1 percent. The  Tadawul All Share Index 
retreated 0.4 percent to 6,309.55 at 1:14 p.m. in Riyadh.
Dubai’s benchmark index lost 0.7 percent and the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index  dropped 1.1 percent.  "The slowdown in international markets is putting pressure
on buyers," said  Amro Halwani , a trader at Shuaa Capital PSC in
Saudi Arabia. "The oil market is also taking a breather putting
additional pressure on petrochemicals."  Crude for December delivery fell as much as 1.2 percent to
$81.54 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Oil declined for the first time in four days as
traders bet stockpiles in the U.S. are rising and the dollar
strengthened, curbing investor demand for commodities.  The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council, including
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, supply about a fifth
of the world’s oil.  The  Tadawul All Share Petrochemical Industries Index  fell
0.5 percent, snapping four days of gains. Sabic retreated 0.8
percent to 94.75 riyals. National Industrialization was poised
for the lowest close in almost two weeks, declining to 30.9
riyals.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  of Gulf region stocks slid 0.3
percent. Abu Dhabi’s  measure  and Bahrain’s  measure  lost 0.1
percent, while Qatar’s  QE Index  and Oman’s  MSM 30 Index  slipped
0.3 percent. The  Kuwait SE Price Index  advanced 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahraa Alkhalisi  in Abu Dhabi at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  