-- Saudi Arabia May Become Australia's Largest Wheat Market, CBH Forecasts
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-10-27T04:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/saudi-arabia-may-become-australia-s-largest-wheat-market-cbh-forecasts.html
Saudi Arabia may become one of
Australia’s largest wheat markets as the country’s imports rise
and after changes to tender specifications this year opened
access to the trade, according to forecasts by CBH Group.  Australia may be able to supply about 1 million metric
tons a year as Saudi Arabia’s annual imports increase to about
3.5 million tons from 2011-12,  Tom Puddy , wheat marketing
manager for Perth-based  CBH’s  export division, said by phone
yesterday.  Saudi Arabia’s grain imports will probably rise to a
record in 2010-11 as the country cuts back production of water-
intensive crops, the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture
Organization said in a report this month. CBH this year shipped
the first Western Australian wheat bulk cargo to the country
for more than 20 years after tender protein specifications were
lowered and a zero tolerance for the fungus Ergot ended.  “They are going to be reliant on imported wheat in the
future, so this is probably the largest emerging end-user
market globally,” Puddy said yesterday from Bangkok. Saudi
Arabia may hold its next tender early in 2011 and could seek as
much as 1 million tons, he said.  Wheat for December delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade
rose 0.1 percent to $6.93 a bushel at 1:51 p.m. Melbourne time,
taking this year’s advance to 28 percent.  Saudi Arabia may purchase 2 million tons of wheat in 2010-
11 with foreign purchases to exceed 3 million tons in 2016,
according to the FAO. Suppliers to the country this year have
included Germany, Canada and the U.S., according to the Saudi
state-owned Grain Silos & Flour Mills Organization  website .  Shipment Arrival  The CBH shipment of 55,000 tons, which arrived last month,
followed reciprocal visits between Australia and Saudi Arabia
representatives, according to a statement this week by Western
Australian Agriculture and Food Minister  Terry Redman .  Indonesia is Australia’s largest wheat market, purchasing
2.8 million tons in the 11 months to the end of August,
according to  data  released Oct. 15 by the Australian Bureau of
Agricultural & Resource Economics-Bureau of Rural Sciences.
Vietnam bought 1.1 million tons and Japan purchased 1 million
tons, according to the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Tokyo at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  