-- SEC Poised to Ban Brokers From Permitting Unsupervised Trades
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-10-27T19:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/sec-is-poised-to-ban-brokers-from-permitting-unsupervised-exchange-trades.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is poised to ban brokers from letting clients make
unsupervised trades on stock exchanges, as it grows increasingly
concerned that a rogue transaction could roil markets.  SEC commissioners will vote Nov. 3 on a rule that would
require brokerages to implement risk controls to monitor client
trades, the agency said today in a  statement  on its website. SEC
officials first proposed the regulation in January, saying they
were concerned that a computer malfunction or human error might
trigger an order that could erode a firm’s capital.  The SEC is cracking down on computerized trading after
lawmakers such as Senator  Ted Kaufman,  a Delaware Democrat,
questioned the agency’s oversight of stock markets increasingly
dominated by electronic trading. The May 6 crash, which erased
$862 billion of value from equities in 20 minutes, has prompted
the SEC to examine high-frequency trading and the fragmentation
of transactions across 50 different venues.  The proposed rule would “effectively prohibit broker
dealers from providing” so-called naked-sponsored access, in
which a customer bypasses pre-trade risk controls, according to
the agency’s statement. Naked access accounts for about 38
percent of U.S. equities trading, according to a December study
by  Aite Group LLC .  Commissioners will also vote next week on a proposal to
expand the SEC’s ability to reward whistleblowers who provide
tips on fraud.  Dodd-Frank  The proposal stems from a provision of the Dodd-Frank
regulatory overhaul that gave the SEC authority to award
tipsters in any case that triggers a sanction exceeding $1
million. The law also stipulated that the agency could give
claimants as much as 30 percent of all the money it collects
when imposing fines or recouping ill-gotten profits.  Currently, the SEC only has authority to give tipsters 10
percent of any penalty and awards are restricted to insider-
trading investigations.  The SEC will vote on a separate proposal triggered by Dodd-
Frank that requires the agency to prohibit fraud, manipulation
or deception in derivatives transactions. Congress took aim at
the $615 trillion over-the-counter swaps market after soured
trades on mortgage and credit derivatives tipped the U.S.
economy into the worst recession since the 1930s.  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial instruments
used to hedge risks or for speculation. They’re derived from
stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to
specific events like changes in the weather or interest rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  