-- Salgado Cuts Deficit, Overcomes Spanish Chauvinism
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-10-28T14:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/selgado-brings-down-deficits-with-yoga-as-she-overcomes-spanish-chauvinism.html
As the only woman in her university
class in Franco’s Spain,  Elena Salgado  remembers being singled
out by a professor who doubted she could keep up with the male
students. After making a point to the class, her professor would
turn to her and ask: “And you, do you also understand?”  Forty years on, Spain’s finance minister is now trying to
prove that she understands how to fix the  country’s budget .  “They had a bit of a reputation for being over-optimistic
and that’s gradually shifting,” said  Michael Dicks , head of
research at Barclays Wealth in London, which oversees about $240
billion of assets including Spanish debt. “People are more
prone now to believe what’s in print and feel there’s more
cohesion and drive to do whatever’s necessary.”  Salgado, 61, is pushing through the toughest austerity
measures since Spain returned to democracy in 1978 after the
death of General Francisco Franco. She has jettisoned key
policies of the governing Socialist Party after Greece’s debt
crisis swept through the euro region earlier this year, helping
to reduce the premium that  investors  demand to hold Spanish
debt. The risk now is that the cuts will worsen a slump that’s
pushed  unemployment  to the highest in the European Union.  “This is no time for short-cuts or expecting miracles,”
Salgado told lawmakers as she presented the 2011 budget to
Parliament on Oct. 19. “Reducing the deficit has become an
urgent goal.”  Yield Premium  The extra  yield  on Spanish 10-year bonds over German bunds
has declined 60 basis points since touching a euro-era closing
high of 221 basis points in June. Spain’s central-government
budget deficit narrowed 42 percent in the first nine months of
2010 from a year earlier, the Finance Ministry reported
yesterday.  Salgado, whose interests range from yoga to the music of
 Bruce Springsteen  and  Albert Camus ’s existentialist novels, has
had to face doubts about her ability ever since Prime Minister
 Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  made her finance minister in April
2009. Alvaro Nadal, a lawmaker from the opposition People’s
Party, said Oct. 14 she lacks the “intellectual background”
for the job even though she went on to study economics after her
engineering degree.  People’s Party lawmaker  Cristobal Montoro  last year accused
her of parroting what her advisers told her and said she could
“ learn economics’ ’ from parliament’s economics committee.  Groucho Marx  Salgado replied with a quote from  Groucho Marx  that wrapped
up the meeting: “I’ve had a perfectly wonderful evening, but
this wasn’t it.” The room burst into laughter.  “She’s famous, and rightly so, for being very strong,”
said  Carmen Alborch , a senator who as culture minister appointed
Salgado to run Madrid’s Teatro Real opera house in 1996. “She’s
pure steel.”  Investors have given Salgado’s measures, which include a
public wage cut and pension freeze, a favorable response. As the
spreads on Irish and Portuguese bonds surged to euro-era highs
last month in a renewed attack on the region’s most indebted
nations, the yield on Spain’s 10-year bond rose just 7 basis
points in the month. The spread on its debt is less than half
the premiums on  Portuguese  and  Irish  bonds, which stand at 339
basis points and 426 basis points, respectively.  Salgado, who has been criticized for over-optimistic
economic forecasts, has also seen the International Monetary
Fund raise its 2010 estimates to match hers. While the IMF’s
2011 prediction of 0.7 percent  growth  lags behind the
government’s 1.3 percent forecast, Salgado says the Washington-
based lender will eventually fall in line with her again.  ‘Inspiring Confidence’  “In the market she ends up inspiring confidence and
manages to give a sense that you can rely on the government’s
determination,” said  Marco Annunziata , chief economist at
Unicredit Bank in London, who has attended investor meetings
with Salgado. “That’s helped investors differentiate Spain more
and more from the weaker peripheral countries.”  Salgado, the only surviving member of Zapatero’s first
cabinet in 2004, nevertheless still needs to repair an  economy 
battered by a property collapse and the doubling of joblessness.
The spread over German government debt is still 10 times the
average in the first decade of European monetary union. Spain’s
autonomous regions also face a funding crisis that has shut
Catalonia, the wealthiest, out of public debt markets since
March.  Job Losses  Spain’s budget deficit is forecast to be 9.3 percent of GDP
this year, the second-largest in the euro region.  Unemployment 
has surged to 20.5 percent as the construction industry’s
collapse meant that more than half the job losses in the euro
region since January 2008 happened in Spain.  Salgado has to find a way to make an economy that averaged
annual growth of 3.5 percent in the first decade of euro
membership create jobs just as households work off the debt
taken on during the boom.  “The underlying economic problems have not disappeared,
further progress is necessary and we still see big challenges
going forward,” said  Kommer van Trigt , a portfolio manager at
Robeco Group in Rotterdam.  Born in the northwestern town of Orense, she studied
engineering at the Polytechnic University of Madrid until 1972
before taking economics at Complutense University.  She served in the government of former Prime Minister
 Felipe Gonzalez  as director of personnel costs and pensions from
1985 to 1991 and secretary general of communications from 1991
to 1996. Salgado, who speaks English and French, was then
appointed director of Madrid’s  Teatro Real opera house , where
she hired Frenchman  Stephane Lissner , who now heads Milan’s
Teatro alla Scala, as artistic director.  Catholic Fight  “The temptation is to hire people from around here, but
she had the ambition to find the best and she approached the
stars of the opera world,” said  Miguel Muniz , the opera house’s
current director general, who worked with Salgado in the finance
ministry. “She had a great ambition to modernize.”  Divorced with a 34-year-old daughter, Salgado introduced a
smoking ban and took on the Catholic Church with a new
artificial fertilization law when she was health minister from
2004 to 2007. She was shortlisted to head the World Health
Organization in 2006, and Zapatero made her minister of public
administration in 2007.  Salgado, who cites Camus’s “The Outsider” as her favorite
book, climbed Mount Kilimanjaro in 2000 and now practices Bikram
Yoga, which involves holding contorted postures in 40 degree
Celsius heat (104 degrees Fahrenheit.) A fan of Wagner’s opera
Tristan and Isolde, Salgado still manages to squeeze in trips to
most of the Teatro Real’s productions, Muniz said.  Future Plans  Already second deputy prime minister as well as finance
chief, she has no plans to climb further, she told El Pais
newspaper in December. That’s giving her a year and a half to
get the economy on an even keel before the next elections are
due.  “If anyone thought she was coming to obey Zapatero’s
orders, I think sincerely that’s not the case,” said Pedro
Aspiazu, a lawmaker for the Basque Nationalist Party who
negotiated the 2011 budget with Salgado. “She’s very tenacious,
very tough and has clear ideas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  