-- Singapore Says Capital Flows Into Asian Economies Pose Risks
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-10-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/singapore-says-capital-flows-into-asian-economies-pose-risks.html
Singapore’s central bank said Asia
faces growing risks from capital inflows and called for “close
monitoring” by policy makers to avoid a disorderly reversal.  The region’s “brighter” economic outlook compared with
the rest of the world may result in higher inflationary
pressures, the  Monetary Authority of Singapore , or MAS, said in
a twice-yearly review today. Singapore’s economy, which may hit
a “soft patch” in the coming quarters, should keep expanding,
it said.  “Inflationary pressures remain significant in Asia,” the
central bank said. “Large capital inflows into the region have
continued to fuel activities and prices in the asset markets,
which could also pose a risk to the inflation outlook.”  Growth in Asia is outpacing the rest of the world,
prompting policy makers to raise interest rates ahead of their
counterparts in the U.S. and Europe to fight inflation and
prevent asset price bubbles. Singapore’s central bank signaled
this month it will allow faster gains in its dollar, its main
tool to manage inflation, after undertaking a one-time
revaluation in April.  “The policy decision was made on the assessment that the
level of economic activity would remain high, as the domestic
economy would continue to expand, albeit at a slower and more
sustainable pace,” the central bank said. “Compared to this
year, when the manufacturing sector experienced a sharp surge in
activity, gross domestic product growth next year will be driven
more by the services sector.”  Overseas Demand  Singapore has remained vulnerable to fluctuations in
overseas demand for manufactured goods even after the government
boosted financial services and tourism.  The International
Monetary Fund  this month lowered its 2011 forecast for world
growth, citing high unemployment, public debt and fragile
banking systems as risks.  “The outlook for Singapore’s key trading partners will
remain uneven,” according to the report. “Notably, the
advanced economies will continue to face significant hurdles in
transiting from public sector-driven to private demand-led
growth. While the risk of the developed economies slipping back
into recession has generally receded, final demand is likely to
remain sluggish.”  The city’s two casino resorts run by  Genting Singapore Plc 
and Las Vegas Sands Corp. have attracted millions to its gaming
centers, while employment growth is boosting spending at malls
and restaurants. The central bank reiterated the government’s
forecast for a 2010 expansion of as much as 15 percent, and said
the $182 billion  economy  will “grow in line with its
potential” in 2011, without providing figures.  Currency Gains  The Singapore dollar has gained more than 8 percent against
the U.S. currency this year. At its April monetary policy
review, the central bank said it would shift the local dollar to
a stronger range to trade in and sought an appreciation
thereafter, the first such combined move in its history.  On Oct. 14, the central bank said it will steepen and widen
the currency’s trading band while continuing to seek a “modest
and gradual appreciation.”  The Singapore dollar “has fluctuated in the upper half of
the exchange-rate policy band” since the April policy review,
the monetary authority said in today’s report.  Singapore’s  inflation  last month accelerated to the highest
level since January 2009, rising 3.7 percent from a year
earlier. Consumer price gains are forecast to quicken to about 4
percent by the end of the year, the central bank said today.  Prices will average between 2.5 percent and 3 percent in
2010 and will be between 2 percent and 3 percent next year, it
said. Inflation may be driven by higher global commodity prices
and domestic labor and accommodation costs, the central bank
said.  “Given these upside pressures to inflation, MAS deemed it
appropriate to tighten monetary policy at this juncture to
dampen external inflation as well as to provide the necessary
macroeconomic restraint on domestic economic activity, thereby
ensuring that cost and price pressures do not become
entrenched,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  