-- Soco Declines After Second Well in Congo Finds No Oil, Gas in Target Area
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2010-10-27T15:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/soco-declines-after-second-well-in-congo-finds-no-oil-gas-in-target-area.html
Soco International Plc , a U.K.
energy explorer, fell to the lowest in 15 months after saying a
second well in the Democratic Republic of Congo failed to find
recoverable oil and gas in the main target area.  The shares  sank 11 percent to close at 292 pence in London,
the lowest since July 17, 2009. The Kinganga Nyanya 1 well in
the onshore Nganzi block was drilled to a depth of 1,164 meters
(3,819 feet) and found no hydrocarbons in the target Lucula
sands, the company said today. Logs showed some oil in the
secondary target Chela sands, and the data will add to an
evaluation of the area to determine commercial possibilities.  This is the second well in the Nganzi block that Soco will
abandon after the Nganga 1 well, the first drilled in Congo in
four decades, found water. Shares have plunged more than 30
percent since Sept. 1 after it also had to plug an appraisal
well in Vietnam, thwarting the company’s plans to quadruple
recoverable oil reserves to 700 million barrels of resources.  “The 700 million target is not obtainable in this drilling
program, but it is obtainable over the longer term,”  Roger Cagle , chief financial officer of Soco, said in a telephone
interview today. “This is a high-risk business. The key is risk
management so you can see it through, and we think we’re well-
positioned to do that.”  The company will now move to the Bayingu-1 in the southern
part of the Nganzi block, which is in a different play type than
the wells drilled so far, Soco said in today’s statement.  “We continue to be encouraged that this previously
undrilled basin contains all of the ingredients to be a
significant producing area,”  Ed Story , chief executive officer
of Soco, said in the statement. “We are confident that the area
represents a high potential exploration play with more work to
be done in order to realize its potential.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  