-- Korean Won, Bonds Slide After BOK Says Capital Controls Might Be `Useful'
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-10-27T06:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/south-korea-won-drops-after-third-quarter-economic-growth-data-bonds-fall.html
South Korea’s won fell the most in a
week and bonds declined after the Bank of Korea reported slower-
than-expected economic growth and Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said
measures to mitigate capital flows could be “useful.”  Large inflows can cause excessive currency moves and asset-
price bubbles, destabilizing the economy, Kim said in Seoul
today. The government will “seriously consider” whether to
withdraw tax exemptions on government bonds for overseas
investors, Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said in Seoul on Oct.
19 during a parliamentary audit.  A tax on foreigners’ holdings of Korean bonds “is negative
for the currency and will deter inflows into the bond market for
a long time,” said  Christian Carrillo , senior rates strategist
at Societe Generale SA in Tokyo.  The won dropped 1 percent to 1,128.24 per dollar as of the
3 p.m. close in Seoul, paring this month’s advance to 0.3
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on
the 3.75 percent bond due June 2013 rose three basis points to a
three-week high of 3.31 percent, according to Korea Stock
Exchange.  Capital controls will only be considered “as a last
resort,” Bank of Korea’s Kim said. Record fund inflows are
stoking gains in emerging-market currencies, hurting exporters
and prompting countries such as Brazil to try to limit gains.  Slower Growth  South Korea has tried to limit currency gains this year to
protect its exports, which account for about half of the
nation’s economy.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.7 percent in the third
quarter from the previous three months, half the gain in the
second quarter and less than the median estimate of 0.8 percent
in a Bloomberg survey of economists, central bank data showed
today. The  Kospi  stock index dropped 0.5 percent, retreating
from yesterday, when it closes at its highest since 2007.  Slowing economic growth “is stimulating risk-off sentiment
in the market,” said  Ko Yun Jin , a currency trader at Kookmin
Bank in Seoul.  Asia’s fourth-biggest economy will likely grow around 6
percent this year on exports and reviving domestic demand, Bank
of Korea Director General Kim Myung Kee said today. The central
bank in July forecast an expansion of 5.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  