-- South Africa Cuts Deficit Forecast and Moves to Weaken the Rand in Budget
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   G o r d o n   B e l l
-- 2010-10-27T14:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/south-africa-cuts-deficit-forecast-and-moves-to-weaken-the-rand-in-budget.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  raised his growth forecasts and cut the estimate
for the budget deficit, pledging to use some of the extra funds
to finance foreign-currency purchases to weaken the rand.  The  economy  will expand 3 percent this year and 3.5 percent
in 2011, compared with the February forecasts of 2.3 percent and
3.2 percent, the National Treasury said in the medium-term
budget statement released in Cape Town today.  “South Africa’s economic recovery continues to gain
momentum,” the Treasury said. “Stronger spending by households
and income from high commodity prices has been supported by
expansionary fiscal and monetary policy and low inflation.”  Growth remains below the 7 percent the government says is
needed to create 5 million jobs over the next decade, partly
because a strong rand is limiting the expansion of exports. The
Treasury said it would use increased revenue to help the central
bank buy foreign currency, and allow South Africans to take more
money out of the country as it attempts to weaken the rand.  The currency has gained 34 percent against the dollar since
the start of last year because of surging capital inflows into
emerging markets, undermining the competitiveness of mines and
factories and adding to unemployment.  The  jobless rate  was little changed at 25.3 percent in the
third quarter, the statistics agency said yesterday.  Overvalued  “There is no doubt the overvaluation and appreciation of
the rand has had an impact on our exporters,” Gordhan told
reporters. “We need to help them to survive and to thrive.”  Allied Electronics Corp., which invests in companies that
make communications equipment and power cables, and  Sasol Ltd. ,
the world’s biggest maker of motor fuel from coal, both based in
Johannesburg, have complained in the past two months that the
rand is undermining their profits.  The rand traded at 7.0266 per dollar as of 3:18 p.m. in
Johannesburg from 7.0405 before Gordhan started his speech and
6.9431 late yesterday. The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index fell
for a second day, declining 0.3 percent at 30,046.31.  The Treasury has taken “a meaningful, albeit cautious,
move on the currency,”  Peter Attard Montalto , an economist at
Nomura Plc in London, said in e-mailed comments. “Today’s move
should make investors think twice about the rand being a one-way
bet, but equally does little to dampen its attractiveness
overall.”  Coordinated Action  “Further steps to moderate the impact of capital flows on
the South African economy will be considered, drawing on
international experience and assessments of the likely impact,”
Gordhan told lawmakers.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo today said the nation
may consider imposing capital controls to slow fund inflows.
Thailand has already said it will remove a 15 percent tax
exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds, and
Brazil has said it will raise a tax on foreign investments in
fixed-income securities to 6 percent.  South Africa’s central bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said on
Oct. 19 that the government should consider tax incentives or
subsidies to support manufacturers hardest hit by the rand’s
gains, a suggestion raised by the International Monetary Fund in
a Sept. 21 report.  The bank, which has foreign currency  reserves  of $44.1
billion, can do little on its own. The bank lost 1.05 billion
rand ($149 million) in the year through March and can’t afford
to build reserves more quickly because it earns less in interest
on foreign-currency reserves than it pays out on the bonds it
sells to soak up excess liquidity.  Exchange Controls  The Treasury said it will scrap a 10 percent levy it
charges emigrants to take funds in excess of 8 million rand out
of the country, and allow residents to invest 4 million rand a
year offshore. Individuals are currently restricted to investing
a total of 4 million rand outside the country.  “In the short-term it’s not going to have much impact,”
said  Elna Moolman , an economist at Renaissance BJM, a
Johannesburg-based stockbroker. “It’s not entirely clear that
individuals will be in a hurry to take money out of the
country.”  Gordhan said he expects tax receipts for the year through
March to be 31 billion rand higher than previously forecast,
enabling him to trim the budget deficit to 5.3 percent of gross
domestic product from the 6.2 percent estimated in February. The
deficit is narrower than the 5.5 percent median estimate of nine
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The Treasury expects the
budget gap to narrow to 4.6 percent of GDP in fiscal 2012 and
3.9 percent deficit the following year.  Spending Plans  Planned government spending over the next three years was
little changed from the February budget, even after public
sector unions won 7.5 percent pay increases after a 20-day
strike. The settlement will add 6.5 billion rand to the
government’s wage bill this fiscal year, and annual increases
should be limited to 6.3 percent for the next three fiscal
years, Gordhan said.  “It’s very encouraging that given all the political
pressure to widen the deficit that they are still sticking with
the plan to bring the deficit down,” Moolman said. “What’s
absolutely clear is the need to reduce debt and debt servicing
costs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Gordon Bell  at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 