-- South Africa Will Use Revenue Overruns to Help Weaken Rand, Treasury Says
-- B y   G o r d o n   B e l l   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-10-27T12:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/south-africa-will-use-revenue-overruns-to-help-weaken-rand-treasury-says.html
South Africa’s government will use
part of its higher than expected tax revenue this year to build
foreign reserves and will ease exchange controls as it attempts
to weaken the rand, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  Some of the 31 billion rand extra tax collected in the year
through March, 2011 will be transferred to the central bank,
Gordhan said in medium-term budget  speech  in Cape Town today.
The government will study the effectiveness of other measures
being taken by countries to weaken their currencies, including a
tax on capital inflows, he said.  The rand has strengthened 34 percent against the dollar
since the start of last year as portfolio investors seek the
higher returns offered by emerging markets. The benchmark
interest rate in Africa’s biggest economy is 6 percent, compared
with almost zero in the U.S. and the euro region. The Reserve
Bank held $44 billion in gold and foreign exchange reserves at
the end of September.  “The National and the Reserve Bank will continue to
purchase foreign exchange reserves,” Gordhan said. “These will
be funded by revenue overruns in 2010/11 and the issuance of
government bonds and debentures,” he said, without saying how
much of the overrun will be given to the central bank.  Gordhan and central bank Governor  Gill Marcus  told
reporters today that the rand was “overvalued” and is hurting
the economy.  Exchange Controls  The central bank will soak up inflows from foreign direct
investment using foreign-exchange swaps to further ease pressure
on the rand, Gordhan said. It will also ease foreign-exchange
controls, allowing individuals and companies to take more money
out of the country.  South Africa will remove a levy on money taken out by
emigrants and raise the limit on offshore investment by
individuals, Gordhan said.  A 4 million rand ($569,000) lifetime cap on investing
abroad will be changed to a 4 million rand annual limit, the
National Treasury said in a statement. The 8 million rand limit
on how much emigrants can take abroad is removed, it said.  Emigrants were previously forced to pay a 10 percent levy
if they wanted to take more than the limit with them, and the
funds were held by the central bank until the fee was paid.  “This would support reforms aimed at curbing the excessive
appreciation of the domestic currency,” the Treasury said. The
blocked funds may run “into billions” of rand, Gordhan said.  Foreign companies looking to use South Africa as a base to
expand into the rest of the continent will be allowed to raise
and invest that money abroad without exchange control approval,
the Treasury said. Private and public pension funds will also be
allowed to invest more abroad.  The Reserve Bank will issue a circular on the exchange
control changes within the next two weeks, Marcus said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gordon Bell  in Johannesburg at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 