-- South Africa to Review Private Medical Taxes Before a National Health Plan
-- B y   G o r d o n   B e l l   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-10-27T12:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/south-africa-plans-to-review-private-medical-taxes-before-health-plan.html
South Africa’s National Treasury
said it will review how it taxes private medical insurance as it
prepares to introduce a compulsory national health plan.  “Amendments to improve the fairness of the tax treatment
of medical scheme contributions will be introduced,” the
Treasury said in its medium-term budget released in Cape Town
today.  The government is looking at ways to fund a National Health
Insurance program that the ruling African National Congress
wants in operation in 2012. The NHI plan will be phased in over
14 years, costing 128 billion rand ($18 billion) in its first
year, rising to 267 billion rand by 2020, Zweli Mkhize, chairman
of the ANC’s health committee, said on Sept. 21. The money may
be raised through higher taxes, he said.  The Treasury didn’t allocate money to the program in
today’s medium-term budget, which runs until 2013/14. The
government and researchers are studying the costs of the ANC’s
proposals, it said.  The government is “absolutely committed” to improving the
country’s health system and to introducing the health plan,
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  told reporters today. It is
unclear what it will cost and some of the money will be raised
by increasing the number of people paying tax, he said.  The entire population will have to sign up to the health
plan to make it affordable and enable the government to hire an
extra 80,000 health workers,  Olive Shisana , who heads a
committee advising the government, said on Sept. 21. Privately
insured citizens on average have access to medical benefits
worth six times more than those who rely on the state, she said.  Health Spending Up  Public health spending is estimated to rise to 127.1
billion rand in 2013/14 from 101.9 billion in this fiscal year,
the Treasury said.  A report commissioned by South Africa’s three biggest
private hospital groups,  Netcare Ltd .,  Medi-Clinic Corp. Ltd. 
and  Life Healthcare Group Holdings Ltd.  showed national health
insurance would cost between 165 billion rand and 244 billion
rand a year more than the current national health budget. The
study concluded that the plan was unaffordable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gordon Bell  in Johannesburg at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net :
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 