-- South Africa's Annual Inflation Rate Declines to 3.2% on Gains by Currency
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-10-27T10:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/south-africa-s-annual-inflation-rate-declines-to-3-2-on-rand-s-increase.html
South Africa’s inflation rate fell
to a five-year low of 3.2 percent in September as the rand’s
gains reduced import costs.  Inflation  slowed from 3.5 percent in August, the Pretoria-
based statistics office said on its  website  today. It was the
ninth straight monthly decline, and the lowest rate since June
2005. The  median estimate  of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was 3.3 percent. Prices rose 0.1 percent in the month.  The rand climbed about 10 percent against the dollar in the
third quarter, helping to reduce the cost of imports such as oil
and keeping inflation within the target range of 3 percent to 6
percent. That allowed the Reserve Bank to cut its benchmark
interest  rate  to 6 percent on Sept. 9, the eighth reduction in
21 months, to help spur the  economy .  “We’re still feeling a disinflationary impact of the
rand,” said  Jean-Francois Mercier , an economist with Citigroup
Inc. in Johannesburg. “We’re close to the bottom of the cycle.
This could even be the low-point. Food and petrol might drive it
up in the next month or two.”  South Africa’s government increased gasoline prices by 0.6
percent on Oct. 6 after international oil-product costs rose.  The rand and bonds pared losses after the data was
released. The yield on the R157 bond, due 2015, dropped to 7.203
percent at 12:05 p.m. in Johannesburg, from as high as 7.252
before the inflation release. The currency was at 7.0035 per
dollar, up from 7.0395 earlier today.  Outlook ‘Benign’  Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said on Oct. 14 that
South Africa’s inflation outlook is “benign” and will remain
below 6 percent until the end of 2012. Inflation could slow
further because of the strength of the rand, which has surged
against the dollar because of capital inflows, Marcus said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said Oct. 15 that the currency is
likely to rally to 6.20 per dollar over the next year.  After cutting its key interest rate on Sept. 9, the
Monetary Policy Committee said there was limited room for
further reductions if variables affecting inflation remain
unchanged.  “It’s becoming a very close call” on whether the central
bank will be able to cut rates again, Mercier said. He declined
to comment further.  Marcus said last week that the government should also
consider tax incentives or subsidies to support manufacturers
hardest hit by the rand’s gains, a proposal also backed by the
International Monetary Fund in a Sept. 21 report.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan , who is due to present the
mid-term budget today, said on Oct. 14 that South Africa will
not engage in a “currency war” by following other emerging
economies which are devaluing to support their exports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 