-- South African Treasury Says Rand Tames Inflation, Facilitates Lower Rates
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-10-27T12:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/south-african-treasury-says-rand-tames-inflation-facilitates-lower-rates.html
South Africa’s National Treasury
expects inflation to remain below 6 percent for the next three
years, as the strong rand damps import costs.  Inflation  is expected to average 4.4 percent this year, 4.7
percent in 2011 and 5 percent in 2012, the Treasury said in its
mid-term budget statement released in Cape Town today. In the
Feb. 17 budget, the Treasury forecast inflation of 5.8 percent
this year, 6.1 percent next year and 5.9 percent in 2012.  The rand has gained 34 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of last year, helping reduce the price of fuel and
other imports. The inflation rate fell to 3.2 percent in
September from 3.5 percent the month before, the government
statistics agency said in a report released in Pretoria today.  “The strong rand currently offsets the impact of high real
wage increases on inflation,” the Treasury said. “While
inflation is low, underlying inflationary pressures remain. To
prevent a resurgence in inflation that could put further upward
pressure on the real exchange rate, monetary policy needs to
remain focused on anchoring inflation expectations.”  The central bank is tasked with keeping inflation to within
a 3 percent to 6 percent target band. Labor unions have been
pushing for the target to be scrapped, saying the bank should
focus on fostering growth and creating jobs.  “Subdued headline inflation should allow monetary policy
to remain supportive of growth over the medium-term,” the
Treasury said. “Fiscal consolidation and lower interest rates
are the macroeconomic prerequisites for a more competitive real
exchange rate. The combination of tighter fiscal policy and
looser monetary policy will support demand, while moderating the
build-up of imbalances arising from strong capital inflows.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 