-- Soybeans, Corn Fall as U.S. Harvest Nears Finish; Rice Ends Winning Streak
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   J a e   H u r
-- 2010-10-27T12:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/soybeans-fall-from-two-year-high-rice-futures-snap-12-day-winning-streak.html
Soybeans and corn fell in Chicago as
the U.S. harvest neared completion. Wheat slid on speculation
that the dollar’s advance may slow demand for U.S. crops.  U.S. farmers collected 83 percent of the national corn crop
and about 91 percent of soybeans, the Department of Agriculture
said in a  report  this week. The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-
currency gauge of the greenback’s strength, rose as much as 0.6
percent today. A stronger dollar makes U.S. crops more expensive
for importers using other currencies.  “It’s harvest season” in the U.S., said  Bill Adams ,
manager of ACT Macro in Zurich, who trades currencies and
commodities. “We know that the crop is going to be good. The
market doesn’t expect any big orders from now until the end of
the year. The dollar is playing a part.”  Soybeans for January delivery dropped 13 cents, or 1.1
percent, to $12.18 a bushel at 1:14 p.m. London time on the
Chicago Board of Trade. The oilseed touched $12.405, the highest
level for a most-active contract since Sept. 4, 2008.  Corn for December delivery fell 4.5 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to $5.665 a bushel, reversing a gain of as much as 0.8 percent.
A decline today would be the first this week.  Wheat for December delivery slid 0.5 cent, or 0.1 percent,
to $6.915 a bushel. The most-active contract is up 2.6 percent
this month.  Chinese Demand  Before today, corn jumped 53 percent since the end of June,
soybeans rose 36 percent and wheat surged 44 percent on
speculation that adverse weather would curb global production
and demand from China increased.  “Higher prices may curb buyers’ interest, while U.S.
farmers will slow sales as they bet that prices will resume the
uptrend,” said  Hiroyuki Kikukawa , general manager of research
at IDO Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The dollar’s strength will
also put a lid on any rally in commodities.”  Milling wheat for January delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris was unchanged at 214.75 euros ($296.68) a metric ton.  Wheat-growing areas in the central and southern U.S. Plains
for the hard, red winter variety will get “minimal to non-
existent” rainfall in the next 14 days, Chicago-based QT
Weather said yesterday in a report.  About 47 percent of the U.S.  wheat crop  was rated good to
excellent in the week ended Oct. 24, down from 62 percent a year
earlier, the USDA said Oct. 25.  Great Plains  Crop conditions last week were rated at the lowest level
for the period since 2001.  “Drought is the culprit affecting the key bread-wheat
states in the Great Plains and mid-South,”  Gail Martell ,
president of MartellCropProjections.com in Whitefish Bay,
Wisconsin, said yesterday in a report.  Rough rice declined for the first time in 12 days. The
grain for January delivery lost 14 cents, or 0.9 percent, to
$14.915 per 100 pounds in Chicago. Before today, futures rose 16
percent since Oct. 11 as Typhoon Megi hurt Thai and Vietnamese
crops, floods in Pakistan drowned plants and hot, dry weather
curbed U.S. production.  Thailand is the world’s largest rice exporter, followed by
Vietnam, Pakistan and the U.S.  “Rice production will become an issue next year,”  Prasert Gosalvitra , head of Thailand’s state-run Rice Department, said
in a phone interview. “Supply will become tight, driving prices
higher.”  The USDA lowered its estimate for global milled rice output
to 452.5 million tons on Oct. 8, 171,000 tons short of forecast
demand. The global production deficit, the first in four years,
may be even wider because typhoons and flooding hit Southeast
Asia days after the release of the estimate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net ;
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at   jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 