-- Spain's Deficit Cuts Rewarded With Cheaper Funding: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-10-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/spain-s-deficit-progress-rewarded-with-cheaper-funding-costs-euro-credit.html
Spain is cutting its deficit faster
than Ireland, Portugal or Greece, seeking to reassure investors
that the nation deserves cheaper borrowing costs than its peers.  Spain’s central government trimmed the deficit by 42
percent in the first nine months, compared with 31 percent in
Greece and a widening budget gap in Portugal. The figures were
released yesterday as budget talks broke down in Portugal, and
Greece said  its shortfall  was bigger than reported, pushing up
the yield premium investors demand to hold sovereign debt of the
so-called euro peripherals over comparable German bunds.  Portuguese 10-year bond yields rose 27 basis points to 5.96
percent, the biggest one-day advance in more than a month.
Greece’s yield jumped 73 basis points and Ireland added 32.
Spain’s yield gained 9 basis points, leaving the spread over
bunds near a 10-week low, reached the previous day.  “Investors seem to be differentiating more between markets
as Spain has decoupled in a sense,” said  Olaf Penninga , who
helps oversee 140 billion euros ($193 billion) at Robeco Group
in Rotterdam. He said his view has become more “constructive”
on Spanish debt.  Spain, which was forced in May to deny speculation that it
might follow Greece in seeking an international rescue, slashed
public sector wages 5 percent, reduced investment spending and
increased value-added taxes in a bid to cut the budget deficit
in half in two years. The measures are paying off as the yield
difference with Germany has fallen by more than 25 percent from
a euro-era high of 221 basis points in June, while spreads for
 Portuguese  and Irish securities rose to records last month.  ‘Better Sign’  “Generally the budget seems to be on track and that’s a
much better sign than in some countries where this data didn’t
show an improvement, so in that sense some of the risks have
abated,” Penninga said.  The spending plan includes the deepest budget reduction in
at least 30 years and aims to slash a deficit of 11.1 percent of
gross domestic product last year, the euro region’s third
largest, to 6 percent next year. That would leave Spain with a
shortfall on par with France.  “There’s more conviction that the 6 percent deficit is
achievable,” said  Antonio Garcia Pascual , chief southern
European economist at Barclays Capital in London. “They’re on
track and my sense is they’ll end up a little bit better than
9.3 percent this year.”  Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, who leads a
minority government, has already mustered enough support in
parliament to pass the plan in an initial vote, cutting deals
with two regional parties that should assure his government
survives until scheduled elections in 2012.  Breakdown in Portugal  By contrast, Portugal’s opposition broke off talks on the
minority government’s fiscal blueprint, jeopardizing its passage
in a parliamentary vote set for next week and fueling the drop
in its bonds. Portuguese Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos
Santos said yesterday that failure to pass the budget “will
plunge the country into a profound financial crisis with very
serious consequences for our economy, in which we’ll see the
channels of financing for our economy blocked.”  In Greece, Prime Minister George Papandreou has raised the
possibility of early elections if voters punish his government
in local voting starting next week for the austerity measures
he’s imposed.  Spanish tax revenues rose 13.5 percent in the first nine
months as the sales tax increase kicked in, according to the
government data published yesterday. Spain’s ability to maintain
that revenue growth may be hampered by a  jobless rate  of almost
21 percent that will lead the economy to contract for a second
year in 2010, damping tax collection.  Relative Performance  So far this year, Spanish long-term bonds returned 2.6
percent, compared with the 10.3 percent decline for Portugal and
6.2 percent drop for Irish securities of 10 years or more, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Of the peripheral countries, only
Italy, with a deficit of less than half that of Spain, has
performed better. Its bonds gained 6.2 percent.  Spain is among the peripherals most vulnerable to rising
borrowing costs. Greece accepted a European Union-led bailout
that should finance the country for at least two years. Ireland
doesn’t need to issue bonds for the rest of this year and
Portugal has met 94 percent of its financing needs, compared
with 83 percent for Spain, said  Chiara Cremonesi , a fixed-income
strategist at UniCredit Bank in London.  “We’re still short Spanish bonds because we see the risk
of supply not being taken very well over the next four bond
auctions,” said  Gianluca Salford , a fixed income strategist at
JPMorgan Chase Bank in London. “But if things continue as
they’ve been over the past few weeks, Spain will continue to
tighten gently in line with Italy.”  Default Prospects  While the relative risk of Spain has eased relative to the
other peripherals, investors still perceive that there is a
greater chance of the country defaulting than the Philippines,
Thailand or Morocco. Credit default swaps protecting Spanish
government cost 206 basis points yesterday, more than the 130.9
for the Philippines, 122.2 for Morocco and 89.3 for Thailand.  “When you look at the figures in Spain, I think we’ve seen
the worst,” said  Michael Wenselaers , a portfolio manager at KBC
Asset Management in Luxembourg, who’s underweight Spain and
“waiting for the right moment to step back in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net ; 