-- Sprott Says Mining Shares May Beat Owning Gold as Companies Post Earnings
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-10-27T13:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/sprott-says-mining-shares-may-beat-owning-gold-as-companies-post-earnings.html
Sprott Asset Management LP, which
offers two funds that invest directly in gold bullion, said gold
producers’ shares will offer better returns than the metal
itself once mining companies start reporting earnings today.  With gold futures trading at $1,338.60 an ounce yesterday
and mining costs largely fixed, gold producers’ profit margins
are likely to increase more than has been factored into their
share price, the Toronto-based money manager said in an e-mail
newsletter Oct. 26.  “You wouldn’t expect the senior gold producers to be
trailing behind gold in this environment,” Sprott said. “After
all, at $1,300 gold, these companies literally have a license to
print money.”  Gold futures have outperformed the S&P/TSX Gold Index, 22
percent to 17 percent, this year. Since the first gold exchange-
traded fund made it easier for investors to own the commodity
directly in March 2003, the price of the metal has increased at
a rate of 20 percent a year, compared with 15 percent a year for
Canadian gold stocks.  Sprott, whose chairman,  Eric S. Sprott , has lauded gold and
gold stocks since at least 2001, began offering its own products
for investors who want to own bullion in March 2009, when it
introduced the Sprott Gold Bullion Fund. A second fund, the
Sprott Physical Gold Trust, had its  initial public offering  in
February.  In the e-mail, Sprott called for investors to buy gold-
mining companies before they release third-quarter  financial
results . The world’s largest gold producer, Barrick Gold Corp.,
is scheduled to release earnings on Oct. 28, while the second-
biggest producer by market value, Goldcorp Inc., is to announce
results at 2:02 p.m. in Vancouver.  Catch-Up  “Despite the buzz you’ve heard about gold and silver over
the last two months, the stocks haven’t caught up,” Sprott
said. “We expect that to change over the next two quarters as
investors realize how much stronger gold producers’ earnings
will be at $1,350 gold.”  Sprott also offers mutual funds and hedge funds that hold
shares of mining companies, including gold explorers CGA Mining
Ltd. and Colossus Minerals Inc. and reseller Gold Wheaton Gold
Corp.  The money manager’s flagship  Sprott Hedge Fund  has soared
578 percent since its introduction in November 2000, according
to Bloomberg data.  Eric Sprott didn’t immediately return a request for
comment.  Sprott Asset Management is a subsidiary of Sprott Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 