-- Standard Chartered to Advise on Mideast, Africa Bonds
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-10-27T10:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/standard-chartered-has-over-ten-mena-bond-mandates-shankar-says.html
Standard Chartered Plc  will advise
on more than 10 bond offerings including Islamic debt from
borrowers in the Middle East and North Africa, according to a
senior official.  The average size of each debt offering is $500 million and
“some could be mega,”  V. Shankar , chief executive officer for
Europe, the Middle East, Africa and the Americas, said in an
interview at the World Economic Forum in Marrakesh, Morocco. The
bank is the second-biggest underwriter of bonds from the region
this year, after  HSBC Holdings Plc , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “There is a pipeline that could take three to four months
to come to fruition,” he said. “You should see a raft of
issuances in the region and us being strongly involved in many
of them. It’s a broad brush. It is people in telecommunications,
it’s financial institutions, utility companies.”  Record-low interest rates worldwide have spurred Middle
East and North African issuers to sell $31.4 billion of bonds so
far this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
extra  yield   investors demand  to hold emerging market debt rather
than U.S. Treasuries has fallen 38 basis points this month to
239 basis points, a six-month low, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  Equity Business  Standard Chartered is not yet in “the equity business in
the Middle East and North Africa,” Shankar said. “Maybe within
12 to 18 months, not sooner than that.”  The bank arranged $2.9 billion of bonds from the region in
2010, or 9.3 percent of the total, compared with $8 billion from
HSBC, Bloomberg data show. Standard Chartered,  Deutsche Bank AG 
and HSBC managed Dubai’s sale of $1.25 billion of bonds last
month.  “At this stage we are primarily focused on Hong Kong and
Southeast Asia,” he said. “We are going to establish an equity
presence soon in India and then in Korea, Taiwan.”  Standard Chartered has received a license to set up a
representative office in Libya to take advantage of the “huge
potential” of the country’s oil wealth, Shankar said. The bank
is also seeking to step up its services in Egypt and Turkey.  “The next phase how do we engage in cross-border mergers
and acquisitions into Egypt,” he said. “How can we take more
Egyptian issuers into the debt capital markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  