-- U.S. Stocks Fall After Durable Goods Report; Sprint Declines
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-10-27T20:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/stock-index-futures-fall-alcoa-exxon-mobile-drop-procter-gamble-gains.html
U.S. stocks tumbled, snapping a
five-day gain for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , as investors
speculated that the Federal Reserve’s efforts to shore up the
economy will be gradual.  Alcoa Inc.  and Exxon Mobil Corp. each dropped 1.3 percent
after metal and oil prices declined as the U.S. dollar rose to a
one-week high against the euro.  Sprint Nextel Corp.  slumped 9.9
percent after posting a wider-than-estimated loss.  Broadcom
Corp.  jumped 12 percent as quarterly revenue beat analysts’
predictions.  The  S&P 500  slid 0.3 percent to 1,182.45 as of 4 p.m. in
New York. Futures extended losses before the open of exchanges
after the Commerce Department reported that orders for U.S. non-
military capital equipment excluding airplanes dropped in
September. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  lost 43.18 points,
or 0.4 percent, to 11,126.28.  “Investors have been waiting for consistently better
economic growth,” said  John Carey , a Boston-based money manager
at Pioneer Investments, which oversees about $250 billion.
“Unfortunately, we’ve had more of the same -- mixed data.
There’s also hope that the Fed action will be gradual. Too much,
too soon could be a problem with respect to inflation and
interest rates down the road. Stocks have had a nice run so
maybe some people are taking profits.”  Fed Speculation  The  S&P 500  has rallied 13 percent since the end of August
as investors speculated that the Fed will pump more cash into
the economy to safeguard the recovery. The Fed will probably
announce a program to buy several hundred billion dollars of
U.S. Treasury debt over the next few months, the Wall Street
Journal reported, without saying where it got the information.  The central bank will acquire fewer assets through its new
plan, expected to be announced at the conclusion of the Federal
Open Market Committee’s Nov. 2-3 meeting, than the $2 trillion
asset-purchase program that it embarked upon during the
financial crisis, according to the report. Officials want
flexibility in the new program to determine whether it works,
the Journal said.  Estimates for the size of the program had ranged from $1
trillion at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch Global Research to $2
trillion at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., with economists at both
firms agreeing the Fed will likely begin with a $500 billion
plan after the Nov. 2-3 meeting.  Treasury 10-year notes dropped for a sixth day.  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s largest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said a renewal of asset
purchases by the Federal Reserve will likely signify the end of
the 30-year  bull market  in bonds.  ‘Ponzi Scheme’  “Check writing in the trillions is not a bondholder’s
friend,” Gross wrote in his monthly investment outlook posted
on Newport Beach, California-based Pimco’s website today. “It
is in fact inflationary, and, if truth be told, somewhat of a
Ponzi scheme. It raises bond prices to create the illusion of
high annual returns, but ultimately it reaches a dead end where
those prices can no longer go up.”  Sales of new homes rose in September for a second month to
a pace that signals the industry is struggling to overcome the
effects of a jobless rate hovering near 10 percent. Purchases
increased 6.6 percent to a 307,000 annual rate that exceeded the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
Commerce Department figures showed. Demand is hovering near the
record-low 282,000 reached in May.  ‘Looks Tired’  “The economy is still showing weakness,” said  Tom Wirth ,
senior investment officer for Chemung Canal Trust Co., which
manages $1.5 billion in Elmira, New York. “Modest economic
growth is still not enough to get employment going. On top of
that, the stock market looks tired after the big run-up.”  Gauges of  energy  and raw-materials companies fell at least
0.6 percent. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index dropped 0.7
percent as the dollar gained, reducing the appeal of commodities
as an alternative investment. An index tracking the dollar
against six major world currencies advanced 0.5 percent.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, retreated 1.3
percent to $12.70 as metal prices dropped. Exxon, the biggest
energy company, dropped 1.3 percent to $65.67.  Sprint slumped 9.9 percent to $4.30. The third-largest U.S.
mobile-phone carrier reported a wider loss than analysts
estimated as it spent more to subsidize customer upgrades to
phones capable of working on its new network. The third-quarter
loss was 30 cents a share. Analysts projected a loss of 28
cents, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chipmakers  A gauge of chipmakers rose 2.1 percent, the biggest gain
among 24 S&P 500 industries. The Philadelphia Semiconductor
Index of 30 stocks rallied 3.1 percent.  Broadcom surged 12 percent to $41.56. The microchip maker
reported third-quarter sales that beat the average analyst
estimate by 3.4 percent.  Comcast Corp. gained 3.2 percent to $20.27. The largest
U.S. cable-television company reported third-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates as rate increases and sales of products
such as high-speed Internet increased monthly bills. Sales
gained 7.3 percent to $9.49 billion, compared with a projection
of $9.36 billion.  Bank of America Corp. led the S&P 500 Diversified
Financials Index up 0.9 percent, the second-biggest gain among
24 industries. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender
advanced 2.1 percent to $11.54.  The benchmark for U.S. stock options rose a third day,
advancing 2.4 percent to 20.71. The VIX, as the  Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index  is known, has risen 10 percent
in three days. The gauge, which measures the cost of using
options as insurance against declines in the S&P 500, reached
its 2010 peak of 45.79 on May 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 