-- Stocks, Treasuries, Commodities Drop on Fed Speculation
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2010-10-27T11:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/stocks-u-s-futures-commodities-fall-as-dollar-strengthens-won-weakens.html
Treasuries dropped for the sixth day
and European bonds fell before a U.S. report that may give the
Federal Reserve fewer reasons to buy securities to support the
economy. Greek bonds and U.S. futures retreated while
commodities declined.  The 10-year Treasury note yield rose five basis points to
2.69 percent at 7:50 a.m. in New York, and Germany’s 10-year
bund yield rose six basis points to 2.58. The extra yield
investors demand to hold Greek 10-year bonds instead of German
bunds widened 40 basis points to 756 basis points, the most
since Oct. 8. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures sank 0.6
percent, while the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fluctuated. The  S&P
GSCI Index  of 24 commodities fell 0.9 percent, led by cotton.  U.S. durable-goods orders probably climbed in September by
the most in five months, according to a Bloomberg survey before
today’s report. Reports yesterday showed consumer confidence
rose more than expected and home prices unexpectedly increased,
giving the Fed less reason to boost quantitative easing. The
central bank may limit bond purchases to a few hundred billion
dollars at next week’s meeting, the Wall Street Journal reported  “Yields will rise whatever happens at the Fed meeting”
next month, said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-market debt
at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “If they do less than
anticipated, then people will think the economy is okay, and if
they exceed expectations, they will think they’re doing too much
and will create inflation.”  The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond climbed four basis
points to 4.03 percent, with the five-year note yield  advancing 
five basis points to 1.30 percent, before the government sells
$35 billion of the securities.  Durable Goods  Orders for U.S.  durable goods  probably climbed in September
by the most in five months, a sign business investment is
underpinning the recovery. Bookings increased 2 percent,
according to the median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the Commerce Department’s report, due at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Another report at 10 a.m. may show
sales of new houses rose last month to a 300,000 annual rate,
near a record low.  Greek 10-year bonds tumbled for the third consecutive day,
with the yield jumping 58 basis points to 10.34 percent. Last
year’s budget deficit will be revised above 15 percent of gross
domestic product by the European Union, Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said today in Limassol, Cyprus. The nation has
serious tax compliance issues, he said.  Bond Risk  Credit-default swaps linked to Greek government debt
climbed 51 basis points to 729, according to data provider CMA.
The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-default
swaps on 15 governments increased 1.5 basis points to 142.5, the
highest in two weeks, CMA data show.  The Portuguese-German 10-year yield spread widened four
basis points to 317 after the nation’s government and the Social
Democrats, the country’s biggest opposition party, broke off
talks on the 2011 budget proposal.  The decline in U.S. futures indicated the S&P 500 may
retreat for the first time in six days. About 85 percent of the
companies in the S&P 500 that have reported earnings since Oct.
7 topped  analysts’ predictions , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Procter & Gamble Co. reported third-quarter profit from
continuing operations of $1.02 a share. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had estimated profit of $1 on average. Comcast Corp.
had net income of 31 cents a share, more than the 30-cent
average in a Bloomberg survey. ConocoPhillips is also due to
announce results today.  SAP, Deutsche Bank  Basic-resource companies  were the worst performers in
Europe’s Stoxx 600, tracking declines in everything from nickel
to sugar. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining
company, slid 1.8 percent and oil producer BP Plc lost 1.1
percent. Nickel fell 1.7 percent, crude oil dropped 0.8 percent
to $81.86 a barrel and raw sugar declined 1.2 percent.  SAP AG, the biggest maker of business-management software,
slumped 3 percent after  earnings  fell short of analysts’
estimates. Heineken NV tumbled 4.2 percent after reporting beer
sales that missed estimates.  Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s largest
lender, advanced 2.2 percent after posting a smaller-than-
forecast loss, and STMicroelectronics NV, Europe’s biggest
semiconductor maker, rallied 3.9 percent after saying sales will
beat estimates this quarter.  The dollar appreciated against all but two of its 16 major
counterparts, gaining 0.2 percent per euro and 0.1 percent
versus the yen. The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency
against those of six trading partners, advanced for a second
day,  adding  0.1 percent.  Cutting Bets  “Although the scope of any further Fed easing remains a
significant unknown, consecutive days of decent U.S. data have
probably encouraged investors” to reduce bets the dollar will
weaken,  Gareth Berry , a currency strategist in Singapore at UBS
AG, wrote in a report today.  Norway’s krone was little changed versus the euro before
the nation’s central bank decides on interest rates. The Norges
Bank will keep its main rate at 2 percent, according to all 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The krone was at 8.1362 per
euro, from 8.1289 yesterday.  The Australian dollar slumped against all 16 of its most
traded peers after a report showed inflation accelerated less
than forecast last quarter. The Aussie tumbled 1.3 percent to
97.24 U.S. cents, and fell 0.9 percent to 79.56 yen.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  lost 1.1 percent, falling
for the first time in three days. The Shanghai Composite Index
slipped 1.5 percent, the most in a month, while benchmark gauges
in India, Turkey and Thailand fell more than 1 percent.  The Korean won tumbled 1 percent, the weakest in a week,
after Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said measures to
limit capital inflows could be “useful.” South Africa’s rand
depreciated 1 percent on speculation Finance Minister Pravin
Gordhan will announce measures to weaken the currency at a mid-
term budget speech later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Sillitoe in London at 
 psillitoe@bloomberg.net  