-- Sudan's North and South Dispute Reasons for Halt of Border Demarcation
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-10-27T14:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/sudan-s-north-and-south-dispute-reasons-for-halt-of-border-demarcation.html
Sudan’s ruling parties in its
northern and southern regions traded accusations about the halt
of a border demarcation process less than three months before
the south is due to hold a vote on independence.  President  Umar al-Bashir’s  ruling National Congress Party
in the capital, Khartoum, and the Sudan People’s Liberation
Movement, the former rebel group which now governs the semi-
autonomous south, have failed to agree on 20 percent of the
north-south boundary, officials from the two parties said today.
Both sides accused the other of delaying the process by failing
to send officials to attend a joint boundary committee.  “The NCP feels if the border is demarcated” the oil-
producing south will secede in the vote, Riek Degoal, the
Southern Sudan government representative on the boundary
technical committee, said in an interview in Khartoum.  The referendum, scheduled for Jan. 9, is a key component of
the 2005  peace agreement  that ended two decades of civil war
between the Muslim north and the south, where Christianity and
traditional beliefs dominate. About 2 million people died in the
conflict and more than 4 million were displaced.  Talks between the NCP and the SPLM, which were scheduled to
resume today in Addis Ababa, have been delayed indefinitely,
Sudan’s state-run SUNA news agency reported Oct. 25.  Northern Demands  “The SPLM is the party that is slowing down the process,”
Rabie Abdel Ati, senior NCP official and adviser to the
information minister, said in a telephone interview today from
Farwaniya, Kuwait.  The NCP wants to have a “political agreement” with the
SPLM on a border between the two regions, as well as on other
post-referendum issues such as how they will share foreign debt
obligations and oil income, before the vote is held, he said.  Sudan’s daily oil output of 490,000 barrels a day, making
it sub-Saharan Africa’s third-largest crude producer, according
to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy.  Most of the country’s oil is produced in the landlocked
southern region, and is exported through the north via a
pipeline running to Port Sudan on the Red Sea. Both sides
currently split revenue from oil pumped in the south.  “The problem is that if there is no agreement, all
scenarios are open,” Abdel Ati said. “And if there is an
agreement, there will be no need to postpone the referendum.”  SPLM officials have threatened to organize their own
referendum if the north tries to delay the poll. There is no
need to agree on the border beforehand, since Southern Sudanese
across the country will be eligible to vote, not just those
living in the south, Degoal said.  Members of the boundary committee have also disagreed on
which body should mark out the border on the ground, Degoal
said. While the SPLM prefers either an independent non-Sudanese
company or the  United Nations , the NCP wants government agencies
to do the job, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 