-- Swiss Stocks Are Little Changed; UBS Gains as Lonza Shares Drop in Zurich
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-10-27T16:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/swiss-stocks-decline-for-second-day-lonza-and-ubs-lead-retreat-in-zurich.html
Swiss stocks ended little changed as
gains by UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG offset a decline in
Lonza Group AG.  UBS and Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s largest banks,
advanced as rival Deutsche Bank AG posted better-than-estimated
results. Lonza fell 2.6 percent after its chief executive
officer warned a stronger franc will hurt sales.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most
actively traded companies rose less than 0.1 percent to 6,479.21
at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The SMI has gained 9 percent
since its low this year on July 5 on speculation policy makers
in the U.S. and elsewhere will step up efforts to stimulate
economic growth. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  fell 0.1
percent today.  UBS rose 0.5 percent to 16.84 francs. The stock tumbled 5
percent yesterday after the company reported a surprise loss at
its investment-banking unit. The stock was cut to “neutral”
from “outperform” at Credit Suisse today.  “We are seeing a rebound from technical support levels
around 16.5 francs to 16.25 francs for UBS,” said  Fernando Espinosa , a money manager at Interbrokers Espanola de Valores in
Barcelona. “But clearly Deutsche Bank’s earnings are helping
sentiment in the sector.”  Business Outlook  Deutsche Bank Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause  said
the company is “very positive” after being asked in a
conference call for an outlook on fourth-quarter business and
trading conditions. Germany’s biggest bank reported a third-
quarter loss that was smaller than estimated as higher profit at
the investment bank cushioned a writedown on its Deutsche
Postbank AG stake.  Credit Suisse gained 1 percent to 41.11 francs.  Lonza lost 2.6 percent to 86 francs, the biggest retreat
since July 16. A stronger franc is having an increasing negative
impact on sales and will be an “ongoing challenge,” CEO  Stefan Borgas  said in a conference call.  Vontobel Holding AG  declined 1.8 percent to 33.55 francs.
Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Scheidt  said third-quarter
profit growth at the Swiss bank was weaker than in the first
half, according to an interview in Handelszeitung.  Swissquote Group Holding AG jumped 6 percent to 45.1
francs, its best performance in more than a year. The provider
of online financial services said it bought ACM Advanced
Currency Markets AG, a trader of foreign exchange with about 100
employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 merritt1@bloomberg.net . 