-- Swiss School at $71,760 Is Bargain for Some When Skiing Is Free
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2010-10-27T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/swiss-boarding-school-at-71-760-is-a-bargain-for-some-when-skiing-is-free.html
Nitasha Silesh’s Swiss education is
costing her father almost twice what the parents of presidents,
prime ministers and heirs to the British throne have paid.  Silesh started last month at  Leysin American School  in the
Swiss Alps northeast of Geneva. Her tuition is 69,500 francs
($71,760). Students are charged 29,862 pounds ($46,969) a year
at Eton College, where  Prince William , England’s future king,
and Prime Minister  David Cameron  were educated. At Phillips
Academy in Andover, Massachusetts, where both Bush presidents
got their high school diplomas, annual tuition is about $41,300.  Swiss boarding schools are the most expensive in the world,
with annual costs of as much as 120,000 francs per pupil, said
Christophe Clivaz, founder of Geneva-based Swiss Learning. At
Leysin, teenagers from more than 60 countries study, schmooze,
ski and snowboard. The local resort is open to students every
Tuesday and Thursday during the winter term.  “My dad said this is a lot of money, but don’t focus only
on your studies,” said Nitasha, 15. “He wanted me to travel
and to do all the activities possible.”  Rockefellers, Vanderbilts and children from royal families
in countries such as Saudi Arabia are among Leysin’s graduates.
U.S. Democratic presidential candidate  John Kerry  and Swatch
Group AG Chief Executive Officer  Nick Hayek  studied at the
Institut  Montana  Zugerberg in Zug, about a 30-minute drive south
of Zurich. Kerry graduated in 1962 from St. Paul’s School in
Concord, New Hampshire, and then went to Yale University. Most
Swiss schools keep secret the identities of their students.  Most Expensive School  The world’s costliest school is Le Rosey, which has
campuses in Rolle and Gstaad, Switzerland, said Valerie
Scullion, director of admissions and marketing at Bishop’s
College School in Quebec.  Le Rosey , dubbed the “school of
kings” for its royal alumni, charges 92,000 francs for tuition
alone.  “Schools like Rosey are up there with Eton when it comes
to academic opportunities, but at that price, the offer must go
beyond education,” said Tom Parker, the dean of admissions at
Amherst College in Massachusetts. “The food must be pretty
good.”  Le Rosey has a 25-meter heated indoor pool with a sauna,
steam bath and Jacuzzi, two beach volley ball courts, a
skateboard park, shooting and archery ranges, a private 
equestrian ring, a sailing center and a circus tent, according 
to the school’s website.  The costs for Swiss boarding schools mean they exclude “a
great many bright, but under-resourced students,” said Philip
Smith, a former dean of admissions at  Williams College  in
Massachusetts, which is rated America’s No. 1 liberal arts
college by U.S. News & World Report. He added that students who
have attended Williams after graduating from schools such as
Leysin and Le Rosey “have succeeded and done well.”  Textile Profits  Silesh’s father wanted to be educated in Switzerland, but
he wasn’t able to, according to his daughter. He sent his only
child there after his textile company in  India  became profitable
enough.  Le Rosey is a for-profit institution, while Leysin is not-
for-profit. Neither makes its financial accounts open to the
public.  “No country in the world has been able to market itself as
strongly as Switzerland as the image of quality, stability,
safety,” said Marc Ott, 38, Leysin’s director.  With the number of millionaires in the Asia-Pacific region
equaling Europe’s for the first time in 2009, more parents have
the money to send their kids abroad to study. The gross domestic
products of emerging market countries such as China, India,
Russia and Brazil may match the world’s most-advanced economies,
excluding the U.S., within five years, according to estimates
from the International Monetary Fund.  Brazil to Russia  Applications from Brazil for spots at Switzerland’s 12
boarding schools for international students climbed 20 percent
this year, and the increase was 10 percent from China and up 9
percent from  Russia , according to Swiss Learning.  “For customers we talk to, money seems to be less of an
issue,” said Bernhard Gademann, president of  Institut auf dem
Rosenberg , a 121-year-old boarding school in St. Gallen near the
Swiss border with Austria. “It’s academia they’re after, and
they’re willing to pay for it.”  Even with  stock markets in the U.S. and Switzerland  down as
much as 55 percent during the past three years, most Swiss
schools had waiting lists, with Le Rosey turning away two-thirds
of applicants to keep its headcount at 380 students.  “In Swiss schools, it’s not uncommon to sit next to a
prince from Saudi Arabia,” said Patrick Gruhn, a German
national who founded Montreux-based Rayan Partners Sarl, which
offers advice on education to rich foreigners. “Once you create
the bond in school, these are friendships for life. Maybe you
pay 120,000 francs, but a few years down the road it pays off.”  ‘Better Food’  Private boarding schools in the U.K. and North America also
have stepped up recruiting from emerging markets.  “In Switzerland, you’re also paying for the nicer rooms,
the better food and the more varied sports opportunities,” said
Eric Brodka, an educational consultant in Munich. “In England,
schools are paying less attention to the bank account of the
parents and look closer at the qualifications.”  Along with algebra, biology and history, Leysin advertises
whitewater rafting, sailing, rock-climbing and overnight
trekking as outdoor pursuits along with winter sports. Travel
abroad organized by the school includes trips to Venice, Paris
and Istanbul, with optional journeys for an additional cost to
destinations such as Tanzania, Nepal and Egypt.  The average class size at Swiss boarding schools is a dozen
students. Classes are taught mainly in English and French, and
lead to international diplomas.  China to U.S.  Yangzeyu Yang said she plans to attend university in the
U.S. after she graduates from Leysin next year. That’s the
“typical path of Chinese students,” the 17-year-old said.  About 95 percent of the students graduating from Swiss
international boarding schools go on to university, said Clivaz
of  Swiss Learning . “Many” students end up at top-ranked
universities such as Harvard, Oxford or Yale, he said.  Maria Luiza Lopes Camargos, 17, of Belo Horizonte, Brazil,
has other thoughts about the rigors of life as a boarding-school
student in Switzerland.  “It’s quite hard to be here,” she said. “I would
recommend it, but Brazilians like to party and I would tell them
to be aware, you have to study a lot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer M. Freedman  in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 