-- Symantec Sales Forecast Tops Estimates on Corporate Spending
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-10-28T21:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/symantec-sales-forecast-tops-estimates-on-corporate-spending.html
Symantec Corp. , the world’s largest
maker of computer security software, advanced in Nasdaq trading
after forecasting higher sales than some analysts predicted.  Revenue in the period ending Dec. 31 will be $1.57 billion
to $1.59 billion, Symantec said yesterday. Analysts projected
$1.55 billion. Third-quarter profit excluding certain costs will
be 32 cents to 33 cents a share, compared with the 32-cent
average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales of security and backup software to businesses are
recovering from earlier in the year, when companies tightened
their information-technology budgets amid a slow economic
recovery. Mountain View, California-based Symantec, which gets
about 30 percent of its revenue from Europe, benefited last
quarter as the euro increased in value against the dollar.  “It wasn’t an opinion-changer for me, but it was a nice
bounce-back from June,” said  Walter Pritchard , an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. who has a “hold” rating on the shares and
doesn’t own them.  Symantec  gained  65 cents, or 4.1 percent, to $16.45 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares
had fallen 8 percent this year.  Second Quarter  Net income in the second quarter fell to $136 million, or
17 cents a share, from $155 million, or 19 cents, a year
earlier.  Revenue  increased to $1.48 billion.  Profit excluding some items rose to 34 cents a share,
compared with the 28-cent average of estimates.  Symantec has tried to gain a bigger foothold in corporate
data centers with mixed success. In 2005, it paid $10.2 billion
for storage company Veritas Software Corp., a deal that rankled
some investors. Symantec has made 21  acquisitions  since then.  Under  Enrique Salem , who has been chief executive officer
since April 2009, Symantec has been grappling with sluggish
demand in its storage business and competition from McAfee Inc.
in the corporate security market. In August, Intel Corp. agreed
to acquire McAfee for $7.68 billion.  More closely integrating security software and computer
chips can speed encryption of data, Salem said in an interview.
It won’t be as effective helping companies defend computer-
controlled industrial equipment from new types of malicious
software attacks such as the Stuxnet program that affects
machines sold by Munich-based Siemens AG, he said.  “The cyber threat environment is getting more toxic,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  