-- U.A.E.'s RAK Emirate Ruler Sheikh Saqr Al Qasimi Dies After 62-Year Rule
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-10-27T13:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/u-a-e-s-rak-emirate-ruler-sheikh-saqr-al-qasimi-dies-after-62-year-rule.html
Sheikh Saqr bin Mohammed Al Qasimi ,
who ruled Ras Al Khaimah, one of the seven members of the United
Arab Emirates, since 1948, died today at the age of 92, the
official news agency WAM reported on its website.  WAM didn’t specify the cause of death. Sheikh Saqr had been
receiving treatment in a hospital in Abu Dhabi, the capital of
the U.A.E., since June. The Emirates’ Supreme Council endorsed
his son, Sheikh Saud bin Saqr Al Qasimi, as the new ruler, the
news service said.  The rapid handover may aim to avert a power struggle
between Sheikh Saqr’s two sons for control of the sheikhdom on
the Strait of Hormuz, an artery for a fifth of the world’s oil.
In 2003, Sheikh Saqr switched his preference to his younger son,
Sheikh Saud, as heir. The ousted candidate, Sheikh Khalid,
alleges that his half-brother fosters trade with Iran.  “This announcement should ease any concerns there were
about the ambiguity of succession,”  Theodore Karasik , director
of research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East and Gulf
Military Analysis, said in a phone interview. “That is why it
came so quickly.”  Sheikh Khalid’s allegations, rejected by Sheikh Saud, come
as the U.S., United Nations and European Union tighten sanctions
against Iran over its nuclear program, broadening an arms
embargo and imposing tougher trade limits. The U.A.E. is a key
American ally in the Gulf, and Ras Al Khaimah is 60 miles (97
kilometers) from Iran.  “He helped found and build the U.A.E.,” Sheikh Khalid
said in an e-mailed statement. “I look forward to meeting with
family, friends, members of the Supreme Council and rulers of
the emirates to discuss our shared vision for Ras Al Khaimah.”  Like Dubai, Ras Al Khaimah invested in trade infrastructure
such as port facilities to compensate for its lack of oil and
gas wealth. The RAK Free Trade Zone offers companies exemption
from all taxes. The sheikhdom is home to one of the world’s
largest  ceramics  companies,  RAK Ceramics , which exports to more
than 150 countries, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 