-- U.K. Banks Boost Distribution of Five-Pound Notes Following BOE Pressure
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-10-27T12:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/u-k-banks-boost-distribution-of-five-pound-notes-following-boe-pressure.html
U.K. banks and other automated-
teller-machine operators are increasing the number of five-pound
($7.91) banknotes in the economy in response to a drive to raise
their supply, the Bank of England said.  By 2012, there will be an extra 400 million so-called
“fivers” in circulation each year, the central bank said in an
e-mailed statement today in London. The bank said it has about
300 million of the bills ready to enter circulation.  The central bank has urged U.K. lenders including  HSBC
Holdings Plc  to supply more of the nation’s lowest-denomination
paper money to increase its availability and quality. Banks have
been reluctant to stock cash machines with fivers and retailers
generally use them as change instead of banking them, reducing
the circulation of good quality notes, the bank said.  “By Easter next year, the number of five-pound notes
dispensed from ATMs should have increased five-fold,” Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  said in the statement. “The fiver
should start looking as smart as the three other
denominations.”  While opinion surveys have shown there is a particular
demand for more five-pound notes, most ATMs do not supply them
and they account for less than 0.2 percent of all banknotes
dispensed from cash machines, the bank said.  The Bank of England held talks with banks in 2007 to raise
supply of the bills as the existing stock in circulation had
become “scruffy,” according to an interview at the time with
 Andrew Bailey , the official in charge of issuance. His signature
as chief cashier appears on each of the bank’s notes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  