-- U.K. Companies Will Have to Provide Pension Plan for Employees From 2012
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-10-27T11:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/u-k-companies-will-have-to-provide-pension-plan-for-employees-from-2012.html
Pensions Minister  Steve Webb  said
businesses will have to enroll employees automatically in a
pension plan from 2012, as part of the government’s bid to close
the gap in Britain’s provision for old age.  The earnings threshold above which staff will be enrolled
automatically will be aligned with the starting rate for payment
of income tax, currently around 7,500 pounds ($11,900). There
will be an optional “waiting period” of as much as three
months before a worker needs to be automatically enrolled.
Workers may opt in during the waiting period.  The government estimates around 7 million people in the
U.K. are not saving enough for retirement. An independent review
of pension arrangements, accepted by Webb today, proposed that
companies that do not have a plan and choose not to set up one
for themselves should have to subscribe to one overseen by a
trustee body, the National Employment Savings Trust.  “The recommendations of the review team are a sensible and
balanced package of proposals,” Webb told lawmakers in a
written statement in London today. “In particular, the changes
in scope and the deregulatory measures proposed will ensure the
introduction of automatic enrollment is stable and
proportionate.”  Seasonal Workers  The British Chambers of Commerce welcomed the 12-week
exemption. It means companies with a high turnover of staff or a
large number of seasonal workers “will not have to spend a lot
of time and money enrolling employees into pensions that they do
not intend to continue, ”  Adam Marshall , policy director at the
business lobby group, said an e-mailed statement. “Employment
agencies, which will be very important in the fight against
unemployment and underemployment in the years ahead, will
benefit hugely from this change.”  The Trades Union Congress, which represents 6.2 million
workers, said there is “good and bad” in the new pensions
arrangements, saying auto-enrolment is an “historic advance”
for workers.  “But we are concerned at the increase in the threshold for
auto-enrolment and the three-month waiting period,” TUC General
Secretary  Brendan Barber  said in an e-mailed statement. “The
main losers from this increase will be part-time women workers,
the least likely group in the workforce to have a pension.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 