-- U.K. in Talks With Private Companies Over Severn River Tidal Power Project
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-10-27T16:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/u-k-in-talks-with-private-companies-over-severn-river-tidal-power-project.html
The U.K. government is in talks with
companies about generating power from the Severn Estuary after
announcing on Oct. 18 that it will not be backing a state-funded
project on the river.  A  feasibility study , which found no strategic case for a
government funded tidal power scheme on the river between south
west England and Wales, “does not preclude a privately financed
scheme coming forward,” Energy Minister  Charles Hendry  said in
a  written answer  to Parliament in London today.  “My officials are talking to private sector consortia
about their ideas,” Hendry said.  The government shelved plans for a tidal-power plant that
could have supplied as much as 5 percent of the nation’s power,
saying nuclear and wind energy represented better value,  Chris Huhne , secretary of state for energy, said in a separate
statement to Parliament last week.  The project might have cost more than 30 billion pounds
($48 billion) to harness tidal energy, making it too expensive
and “very challenging” to secure financing from private
companies, Huhne said. “Other low-carbon options represent a
better deal for taxpayers and consumers.”  Hendry said the government is not ruling out funding power
generation on the Severn, which has the second highest tidal
range in the world, at some point in the future.  “The government recognizes that factors which will
determine the feasibility of Severn tidal power could change
over time,” Hendry said. “The circumstances in which a future
Government may choose to review the case for Severn tidal power
are set out in the feasibility study summary report.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 