-- Societe Generale Former Trader's Trial Should Be Partly Closed, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-28T04:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/u-s-asks-to-seal-trial-of-ex-societe-generale-trader-agrawal-over-secrets.html
Samarth Agrawal , the former  Societe
Generale  trader accused of stealing the bank’s computer code for
high-frequency trading, should be tried partly behind closed
doors to protect the company’s trade secrets, the U.S. said.  Agrawal, arrested in April, was charged by federal
prosecutors with theft of trade secrets. The government said
Agrawal, hired by Societe Generale in New York in March 2007 to
work as a quantitative analyst in the high-frequency trading
group, made copies of one part of the code he’d been given
access to and another part he wasn’t allowed to have.  Prosecutors in New York asked U.S. District Judge  Jed Rakoff  to close portions of the trial to the public when high-
frequency trading is discussed and to seal the transcript about
such testimony, because Agrawal claims the data isn’t secret and
Societe Generale says it is.  “In short, the nature of the trade secrets is likely to be
contested at trial,” prosecutors in the office of Manhattan
U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  said yesterday.  It was the second time in two days that prosecutors from
Bharara’s office moved to seal a federal criminal trial to
protect a company’s trade secrets. They asked another federal
judge on Oct. 26 to seal portions of the trial of former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  computer programmer  Sergey Aleynikov , who is
accused of stealing trade secrets from the securities firm.  The U.S. also asked that trial exhibits “describing or
containing” New York-based Goldman Sachs’s trade secrets
shouldn’t be made publicly available, so that both sides can
present their evidence without compromising any of the firm’s
proprietary information.  Agrawal has pleaded not guilty to the charges.  ‘Revolting Request’  His lawyer, Ivan Fisher, said Agrawal’s family members plan
to travel from India for the trial and that as many as 15 of his
Indian friends want to be in the courtroom to support him. If
they are excluded, jurors may draw a negative inference, Fisher
said.  “Only Societe Generale people will be allowed,” Fisher
said in a phone interview. “The jury will think there must be
something wrong with Indians, and it’s a revolting request.”  Jim Galvin , a Societe Generale spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment after regular business
hours yesterday.  Agrawal was promoted to trader in April 2009, according to
the complaint against him. Before he resigned in November, he
deleted a computer folder on his personal network drive that
contained the code, prosecutors said.  Prosecutors have said the code Agrawal is accused of
stealing costs millions of dollars to develop and generated
millions of dollars in revenue for Paris-based Societe Generale.  The case is U.S. v. Agrawal, 10-CR-417, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 