-- UB40 Rocks, Best Brunches, Turner Prize Show: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-10-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/ub40-rocks-best-brunch-play-station-turner-prize-great-london-weekend.html
UB40 chronicled the U.K.’s last
Conservative government and its spending cuts with protest songs
like “One in Ten,” the unemployment rate back then.  The band’s members, who met at a job center and named UB40
after a benefit form, went on to score hits with “Red Red
Wine” and “(I Can’t Help) Falling in Love With You.”  They’re now back in the U.K. after a U.S. tour, performing
tracks from the 1980 reggae album “Signing Off,” recently
reissued in an extended 30th-anniversary version.  UB40 plays the  Troxy  on Friday and O2 Shepherd’s Bush
Empire on Saturday. Information:  http://www.ub40.co.uk/   Saturday  Waterloo Station  is the go-to place for southbound trains -
- and, temporarily also, for entertainment.  You can watch the play “ Railway Children ” sitting on
either side of the original track in a specially created 1,000-
seat auditorium. It’s the story of three kids whose life is
upturned when their father goes missing. A period steam engine,
from the National Railway Museum in York, gets a cameo.  The show runs through Jan. 2, with matinee shows that are
ideal for school half-term holidays this week. Information:
 http://www.railwaychildrenwaterloo.com  or call +44-871-297-0740.  Saturday Night  Eighteen-year-old Alex is a welder by day and a dancer by
night. Her aim is to get into a staid dance academy without
losing her street smarts.  Leotards, leg warmers and disco lights are back as
“ Flashdance ” comes to the West End. Victoria Hamilton-Barritt
steps into the part that made  Jennifer Beals  famous in the 1983
movie directed by Adrian Lyne.  Flashdance is at the Shaftesbury Theatre, 210 Shaftesbury
Ave., London WC2H 8DP. Information:
 http://www.flashdancethemusical.com  or call +44-20-7379-5399.  Sunday  Come Dec. 6, a panel will pick this year’s  Turner Prize 
winner from among four nominees. Tate Britain shows their work.  Angela de la Cruz knocks painting off its pedestal and
reduces it to crumpled pieces of canvas nailed to chopped-up
stretchers. An interesting idea, though the result looks like
something you might find at the back of your garden shed.  Dexter Dalwood depicts celebrities’ living quarters --
author  William Burroughs ’s room in Tangiers, for instance -- by
reproducing found images and splicing them together.  The Otolith Group reconfigures a 13-part TV series on the
Greek heritage. And Susan Philipsz has three speakers beam her
voice singing a 16th-century Scottish lament about a drowned
sailor; the work previously played under Glasgow’s bridges.  You can tweet your favorites and read other people’s tweets
at the end. Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk/britain  or call
+44-20-7887-8888.  Brunch Choices  Ready for a spot of brunch before an active day? Electric
Brasserie on Portobello Road draws a fashionable crowd in west
London. See  http://www.electricbrasserie.com/brunch/   In east London, the Albion is a popular and inexpensive
choice. See  http://www.albioncaff.co.uk/caff/   If you want something grand, the brunch at Helen Darroze 
at the Connaught is a culinary treat for special occasions. It 
costs 38 pounds ($60), or 25 pounds for children. Here’s the 
menu:  http://bit.ly/bg2rGs .  ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 