-- Lufthansa Boosts Nine-Month Profit, Raises Full-Year Forecasts
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-10-27T15:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/lufthansa-raises-annual-forecast-after-boosting-nine-month-profit-17-fold.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Europe’s
second-largest carrier, reported a 17-fold increase in nine-
month profit on a recovery in intercontinental passenger and
cargo traffic, and raised its full-year forecast.  Net income reached 524 million euros ($723 million),
compared with 31 million euros a year earlier, Lufthansa said
today, without breaking out the third quarter. Sales rose 25
percent to 20.2 billion euros. Lufthansa said 2010 operating
profit will exceed 800 million euros, or 49 percent more than
the average  estimate  of eight analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  International passenger traffic in Europe, the region whose
recovery has been the slowest, grew 8.4 percent last month,
almost catching up with Asia, industry data show. Cologne-based
Lufthansa wants to lower annual costs at its passenger division
by 1 billion euros through 2011 and is working to return the
Austrian Airlines and British Midland units to profit.  “They have exceeded the already-high expectations in the
market and remain optimistic for the next quarter,” said  Frank Skodzik , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt who
recommends buying Lufthansa. “The market environment is very
strong, especially with an upswing in long-distance traffic and
a return of premium travel.”  Traffic Soars  Lufthansa  rose  1.9 percent to 15.43 euros at the 5:30 p.m.
close of trading in Frankfurt, the highest level in almost 2 1/2
years. Air France-KLM Group, which raised its forecast
yesterday, gained 2 percent in Paris.  The German carrier said July 29 said its 2010 operating
profit would exceed last year’s 130 million euros, without
giving a figure.  Last month, Lufthansa’s passenger traffic rose 7.9 percent
to 8.65 million, while Air France gained 1.5 percent and British
Airways added 4.3 percent.  The International Air Transport Association last month
tripled its projection for 2010 airline profit to $8.9 billion
globally as travel increases. The eight biggest U.S. carriers,
including United Airlines, Continental Airlines and Southwest
Airlines Co., last week posted their highest profit in three
years on rising fares.  “The nine-month earnings reflect both the measures
undertaken in the group to reduce costs and the gratifying pace
of demand in the third quarter, particularly in the freight and
intercontinental passenger businesses,” Lufthansa said in the
statement.  Low-Cost Threat  Along with Air France and British Airways Plc, Lufthansa
faces increasing pressure on fares from low-cost carriers
including Dublin-based Ryanair Holdings Plc. The network
carriers this month called on the European Union to change
regulations that help an expansion by Gulf airlines such as
Emirates, which they said may threaten Europe’s status as an
air-travel hub.  The German carrier’s load factor, or the percentage of
seats occupied, has risen 1.7 percentage points to 79.7 percent
through September. Lufthansa last month boosted capacity by 4.2
percent even as it operated fewer flights.  Christoph Franz , who heads the main brand airline unit, is
set to succeed  Wolfgang Mayrhuber  as chief executive officer
starting next year. Franz last month set an 8 percent operating-
profit margin target for his current unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  