-- Ukraine's Hryvnia May Weaken on Import Demand, Renaissance Capital Says
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-10-27T13:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/ukraine-s-hryvnia-may-weaken-on-import-demand-renaissance-capital-says.html
The hryvnia may weaken 0.6 percent
against the dollar by the end of the year as increasing
purchases of imported goods boost demand for foreign currency,
Renaissance Capital said.  Ukraine’s currency may reach 8 per dollar, an almost eight-
month low based on closing prices compiled by Bloomberg, by the
end of 2010, Renaissance’s Ukraine analyst  Anastasia Golovach 
wrote in a research note e-mailed today. The Moscow-based
investment bank earlier predicted the hryvnia would end the year
at 7.5 per dollar, the note said.  “Increasing demand for foreign currency in the retail
market is a key risk,” Golovach said. For the hryvnia “the
supportive factors are not in place anymore.”  Ukraine’s trade deficit widened to $4.64 billion through
the end of August, from $3.453 billion through the end of July,
according to government data. Consumer demand is “recovering
faster than initially expected” and will bolster growth in
 imported goods , such as cars, which need to be paid for in
dollars and euros, Golovach said. Net purchases of foreign
currency rose to $1.5 billion in September and are likely to
grow further as the year comes to a close, according to
Renaissance estimates.  The hryvnia was little changed for the sixth straight
trading day against the dollar, trading at 7.9502 by 2:57 p.m.
in the capital Kiev. It has gained 1.2 percent versus the dollar
so far this year, compared with the 1.2 percent decline in the
Russian ruble and beating Kazakhstan’s tenge, which has added
0.5 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Sharp Changes’  The Kiev-based central bank manages the exchange rate by
selling dollars and euros and placing restrictions on the levels
at which lenders are allowed to trade the currency. National
Bank Governor  Volodymyr Stelmakh  pledged last month that the
hryvnia would not end 2010 weaker than 8 per dollar. It banned
the trading of hryvnia for future settlement last year and
forced companies seeking dollars to repay foreign debt to prove
their original loans were converted to hryvnia.  Central bank controls over the hryvnia will prevent any
“sharp changes” in the currency, Golovach said. “The  National
Bank of Ukraine  will continue to support the hryvnia via
interventions.”  The hryvnia may strengthen 0.5 percent to 7.91 per dollar
by the end of the year, according to the median estimate of 11
analysts and strategists surveyed by Bloomberg last week. The
range was 7.65 to 8.1.  Capital Controls  Ukraine may become the next emerging market to introduce
capital controls to prevent foreign investment from fueling
gains in its currency, Deputy Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said
in an interview Oct. 9. Developing nations from Brazil to South
Korea have imposed restrictions on offshore investment in their
assets and intervened in their currencies in a bid to thwart
record inflows of foreign currency from inflating their exchange
rates and reducing exporter competitiveness.  The  International Monetary Fund , which approved Ukraine’s
second loan since the start of the global financial crisis in
July, isn’t pressuring the country to accept greater exchange-
rate flexibility, one of the conditions of the loan, Tigipko
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  