-- Unemployment Drops Below `Magical' 3 Million Mark, Prompting Early Release
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-10-27T16:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/unemployment-drops-below-magical-3-million-mark-prompting-early-release.html
German  unemployment  fell below the
three-million mark in October to the lowest in 18 years as
companies stepped up hiring to meet foreign demand for goods
including cars and machinery, the Labor Ministry said.  The  number  of people out of work declined 86,000 to an
unadjusted 2.945 million, the ministry in Berlin said today,
releasing the figures a day before the Nuremberg-based Federal
Labor Agency was scheduled to give the numbers. The seasonally
adjusted total fell 3,000, the ministry said. Economists
forecast a decrease of 30,000 in the adjusted number, according
to the median of 31 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Germany’s economic recovery offers a lifeline to Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  as she struggles to haul her coalition back from
poll lows less than six months before state elections involving
25 percent of the population.  Business confidence  in Germany,
Europe’s largest economy, unexpectedly climbed in October to the
highest level in three and a half years.  “The 3 million figure is a magical psychological
threshold” that compares with the economic boom following
German reunification in 1990, said  Andreas Scheuerle , an
economist at DekaBank in Frankfurt. “It’s the ongoing economic
expansion that’s driving the labor market forward.”  Germany’s benchmark DAX Index fell 0.7 percent to 6,568 at
5:43 p.m. in Frankfurt, after earlier swinging between gains and
losses at least eight times. The dollar traded at $1.3793 per
euro at 5:45 p.m. in Berlin, compared with $1.3859 yesterday.  Germany’s economy grew 2.2 percent in the second quarter,
the fastest pace in two decades, and the Bundesbank said on Oct.
18 that expansion may exceed 3 percent this year, higher than it
forecast in August.  Volkswagen, Lufthansa  Volkswagen AG  will offer permanent contracts to about 400
temporary workers in coming months, spokesman  Stefan Ohletz  said
by phone on Oct. 26.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  is hiring flight
attendants for its bases in Munich and Frankfurt to fill as many
as 1,600 positions, it said this month. Air Berlin Plc  plans  to
add as many as 400 cabin staff at nine German locations.  German  consumer confidence  will remain at the highest level
in two and a half years in November, thanks in part to the
“significant relaxation on the labor market,” Nuremberg-based
market research company GfK AG said Oct. 26.  In France, the number of  jobseekers  approached a five-year
high in September, while unemployment in the  euro area  remained
at 10.1 percent in August, the highest in more than 12 years.
The rate in Germany in adjusted terms was 7.5 percent in
October, the Labor Ministry said.  ‘Economic Miracle’  “People are talking with good reason about a second German
economic miracle,”  Hans-Peter Friedrich , parliamentary leader
of Merkel’s CSU Bavarian allies, said in an e-mailed statement
responding to the unemployment figures. The ruling coalition is
set on a “path of investment and job creation.”  Polls show Merkel has yet to benefit even as voters begin
to feel the economic benefit. For the first time this year, more
people say they are optimistic about the economic outlook than
pessimistic, a Forsa poll for Hamburg-based Stern showed today.  Yet the chancellor’s CDU/CSU bloc dropped one percentage
point in the same poll of 2,502 voters conducted Oct. 18-22.
That gave Merkel’s coalition with the Free Democrats a combined
35 percent support, compared with a total of 47 percent for the
opposition Social Democrats and Greens, enough for an absolute
majority if elections were held now, Stern said. The margin of
error was as much as 2.5 percentage points.  Merkel’s policies helped stave off mass unemployment during
the financial crisis, including via a program that subsidized
companies that retained workers on shorter hours rather than
cutting jobs.  Wage Demands Rise  As the German economy recovers and companies’ profit
improves, labor unions are seeking higher wages. IG Metall
secured a 3.6 percent increase for 85,000 steel workers in
September after demanding 6 percent more pay. The DBB union will
demand a pay increase of at least 7 percent in 2011 wage
negotiations for public servants in Germany’s 16 states, Neue
Osnabruecker Zeitung reported Oct. 26.  “The government’s labor-market policies are still
providing support, but the recovery is standing on its own feet
now,” said  Eckart Tuchtfeld , an economist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “Companies’ willingness to hire remains high.”  According to Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development data, Germany’s jobless rate was 6.8 percent in
August. The equivalent rate in France was 10.1 percent and 9.6
percent in the U.S. The Group of Seven average was 8.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  