-- Vale May Spurn Real Hedges Next Year as Mantega's Currency War Escalates
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2010-10-27T20:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/vale-may-scrap-brazilian-real-hedges-as-currency-war-escalates.html
Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-
ore miner, may opt against hedging as much as $30 billion of
costs in currencies other than the U.S. dollar next year as a
global “currency war” complicates foreign exchange forecasts.  Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale , which hedged $4 billion of costs
at an average 1.92 reais per U.S. dollar this year betting the
real would rise, has yet to decide on its strategy for 2011 as
Brazil and other nations intervene to try and stem currency
gains, Chief Financial Officer  Guilherme Cavalcanti  said.  “Last year was very easy,” Cavalcanti, 41, said in an
Oct. 20 interview in London. “But now there is a level that is
uncertain. Maybe I’ll be out of the market because the
uncertainty would be so high,” he said of government attempts
from Turkey to Brazil to rein in soaring local currencies.  Investors are pouring money into emerging market assets
because of low interest rates and limited economic growth in the
U.S. and Western Europe. Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has spoken of a global “currency war” as governments
struggle to combat capital inflows that are hurting exporters.  While most of Vale’s sales are in U.S. dollars, the real
and Canadian dollar represented about 80 percent of costs last
year. Vale posted a currency gain of $665 million then, compared
with a loss of $1.01 billion in 2008, according to an April 29
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Vale fell 1 percent to 48.72 reais at 5:08 p.m. New York
time.  The shares  rose 17 percent this year to yesterday’s close,
more than a 3.1 percent gain in Brazil’s Bovespa index.  ‘Further Measures’  Brazil would have to cut spending to be able to lower
interest rates and take the currency to a “balanced” level,
according to Cavalcanti.  The real accounted for about 64 percent of Vale’s cost of
goods sold in 2009, while the Canadian dollar was responsible
for 16 percent. The company’s sales are “mostly U.S. dollar-
denominated,” according to the company’s 2009 annual report.  Brazil may need further measures to control the real, which
reached a two-year high of 1.6530 on Oct. 13,  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp  said last week. Brazil’s attempts to stem gains were
less successful than rival nations such as China, the bank said.  About half of Vale’s $10 billion of costs that could be
affected by currency fluctuation this year are protected by a
“natural hedge” from higher commodities prices, Cavalcanti
said. Of the remaining $5 billion, Vale covered $4 billion of
the expenses with hedging contracts, he said.  ‘Inexact Hedge’  “As long as currencies move in line with commodities there
is a natural, if inexact hedge,”  Charles Kernot , an analyst at
Evolution Securities Ltd. in London said today in e-mailed
comments. “The situation becomes complicated as countries see
their economies develop and their currencies become less exposed
to commodity price swings.”  Vale is expected to  post per-share profit of $1.03 ,
excluding some items, for the third quarter, according to the
average of 13 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The company
reports earnings today after the close of trading in Sao Paulo.
 Net income  was $1.68 billion, or 31 cents per share, in the
year-earlier period.  In 2011, as Vale doubles its investment to at least $20
billion, the so-called currency “mismatch” will also double,
according to Cavalcanti. The company may protect about $8
billion in hedging contracts or, if it decides the real won’t
appreciate, may leave those costs without cover, he said.  Commodities Prices  This year “I was confident the real would appreciate also
because my own iron-ore price was increasing,” said Cavalcanti,
who was in London and New York to meet investors last week.  Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli  said on Oct. 20 he
doesn’t expect “much” fluctuation in iron-ore prices for the
next few years after prices gained  69 percent  to $149 per metric
ton in the past year. A range of $130 to $160 per ton is a
“reasonable” price for the steelmaking ingredient, he said.  Vale is boosting spending to expand its iron-ore and nickel
capacity. The company may pass OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel as the
world’s largest producer of nickel next year, Agnelli said last
week. The company is seeking to increase copper, fertilizers and
renewable-energy output to diversify from iron ore.  Vale had about $1.47 billion of currency swap transactions
outstanding at the end of 2009, according to the April 29 SEC
filing. These contracts are intended to “mitigate our exchange
rate exposure arising from the currency mismatch between our
revenues in U.S. dollars and our disbursements and investments
in reais,” according to the document.  Financing Plans  Vale will finance its investment plan next year with its
own cash and doesn’t need to sell bonds, Cavalcanti said. The
miner is only likely to issue  bonds  if it sees an opportunity to
cut interest payments or extend the maturity of debt, he said.  The company will also use credit from the Export-Import
Bank of China and the Bank of China Ltd., Export Development
Canada, an Ottawa-based state-owned agency that funds exporters,
and Brazil’s state development bank, known as BNDES, he said.  Cavalcanti replaced  Fabio Barbosa  as Vale chief financial
officer in June. He previously worked for eight years at the
Organizacoes Globo media group and holds a master’s degree in
Economics from Rio’s Pontificia Universidade Catolica.  On Oct. 18, Brazil boosted for the second time this month a
tax on foreign capital inflows after the amount of cash coming
into the country pushed the real to a two-year high. The
government raised to 6 percent, from 4 percent, the so-called
IOF tax that foreigners must pay to buy fixed-income assets. It
also raised the tax on foreign investors’ margin deposits for
futures markets to 6 percent from 0.38 percent.  Currency War  Mantega said on Oct. 21 he agreed with U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  to act jointly with the Group of 20
nations to find a solution for the dollar’s depreciation. So-
called quantitative easing of the U.S. dollar and a 10.75
percent interest rate in Brazil are contributing to the “strong
movement” towards emerging market assets, Cavalcanti said.  “It’s difficult to say who will win this war,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net 
 Laura Price  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  