-- Vale Profit Surges to Record $6.04 Billion on Prices
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2010-10-27T21:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/vale-profit-surges-to-record-6-04-billion-on-prices-update1-.html
Vale SA , the world’s biggest iron-
ore producer, said third-quarter profit more than tripled on
rising prices and demand for the steelmaking raw material.  Net income climbed to $6.04 billion, or $1.13 a share, from
$1.68 billion, or 31 cents, in the year-earlier period, Rio de
Janeiro-based Vale said today in a statement. The company was
expected to post per-share profit of $1.03 on an adjusted basis,
according to the  average  of 13 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Vale is boosting capacity at Carajas, the world’s largest
iron-ore mine, and may surpass OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel as the
world’s largest nickel company next year, Chief Executive
Officer  Roger Agnelli  said Oct. 20. Quarterly profit topped a
previous record of $5.01 billion in the second quarter of 2008.  “The supply and demand balance continues tight and will
continue so in the coming years” as global steel output
recovers,  Juliano Navarro , an analyst at Banco Espirito Santo SA
in Sao Paulo, said by telephone before the results were
announced. “The fundamentals are very good.”  Vale and rivals BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group this
year broke with a system of setting iron-ore prices once a year
in favor of quarterly agreements. Prices more than doubled in
the quarter to $128.21 per ton, from $57.23 a year earlier.
Sales volumes were little changed at 68 million tons, compared
with 66.8 million tons in the year earlier period.  Stock Falls  Vale  fell 48 centavos, or 1 percent, to 48.72 reais in Sao
Paulo trading today. The stock rose 15 percent this year,
compared with a 2.9 percent gain for Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa
index. The results, based on U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles, were released after the end of regular trading.  “Our operations around the world are working at full
capacity,” Agnelli said last week at an investor event in New
York. Vale is “in the best moment of our history,” he said.  Vale  is planning to start producing the mineral from
Guinea’s Simandou project by the end of 2012. The company is
also investing to expand production of non-ferrous minerals,
including copper and fertilizers.  Vale said Oct. 18 that third-quarter iron-ore output
increased 24 percent amid rising demand. The company produced
82.6 million tons of the steelmaking raw material in the three
months through Sept. 30, the highest since record output of 85.8
million tons in the third quarter of 2008.  Carajas Output  Carajas’s output rose 21 percent to a record 27 million
tons after the end of some operational problems in the port
terminal of Ponta da Madeira, Vale said. An improvement in the
performance of the Carajas railway and the end of the rainy
season in the Amazon also contributed to the increase, the
company said in a regulatory filing last week.  Vale is selling all its output and benefiting from growth
in China, South Korea and Brazil, Agnelli said. Demand for
metals in Europe is “only okay” and “not getting worse,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  