-- Venezuela Seeks Meeting With Owens-Illinois to Discuss Fair Takeover Price
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2010-10-27T20:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/venezuela-seeks-meeting-with-owens-illinois-to-discuss-fair-takeover-price.html
Venezuelan Vice President  Elias Jaua 
called on U.S. glassmaker Owens-Illinois Inc. to negotiate a
“fair” compensation for the nationalization of the company’s
local unit.  The government will meet the company’s representatives in
Venezuela in the next few hours to agree on a takeover strategy
and evaluate the local unit’s worth, Jaua said today.  “The government has always honored its payments in terms
of fair and real prices to the owners of companies that have
been nationalized,” Jaua said in comments carried on state
television.  President  Hugo Chavez  is intensifying his drive to abolish
“monopolies” that he says exploit workers, seeking to create a
socialist economic model by nationalizing companies in the
agricultural, oil, metals and telecommunications sectors. Owens-
Illinois, the world’s largest producer of  glass containers , said
its local unit had always followed Venezuelan law.  Jaua said that protests by workers outside the Owens-
Illinois plant in Carabobo state had continued today, impeding
government efforts to take control of the company’s assets. He
said that Empresas Polar SA, Venezuela’s largest company and one
of Owens-Illinois’ main clients, was behind the protests.  “It’s workers connected with Empresas Polar who are massing
outside Owens-Illinois,” Jaua said. “We ask Empresas Polar,
which is impeding an act by the Venezuelan state, to distance
itself from the position some of them are taking.”  Polar spokeswoman  Ivana de Guerrero  wasn’t immediately
available for comment.  Owens-Illinois rose 15 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $28.05 at
4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  