-- Virginia Man Arrested in Washington Metro Bombing Plot
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-10-27T22:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/virginia-man-is-arrested-for-plotting-attacks-on-washington-metro-system.html
A Virginia man was arrested for
allegedly participating in what he thought was an al-Qaeda plot
to bomb Metrorail subway stations in the Washington area.  Farooque Ahmed, 34, of Ashburn, gathered information on
which stations and times would cause the most destruction, the
U.S. Department of Justice said today in a statement. He then
passed the information to people he believed to be members of
al-Qaeda, according to the government.  Ahmed, a U.S. citizen born in Pakistan, was caught in an
undercover operation, according to a federal official who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the investigation is
continuing. He
was taken into custody today after a grand jury returned a
three-count indictment against him yesterday.  “It’s chilling that a man from Ashburn is accused of
casing rail stations with the goal of killing as many Metro
riders as possible through simultaneous bomb attacks,” said
 Neil MacBride , the U.S. attorney in Alexandria, Virginia.  Ahmed may face 50 years in prison for attempting to provide
material support to a terrorist group and attempting to help
carry out attacks, the U.S. said.  From April to Oct. 25, Ahmed met in northern Virginia hotel
rooms with people he believed represented al-Qaeda, prosecutors
claim. At one meeting he agreed to watch a Washington hotel and
an Arlington, Virginia, Metro station to study the security and
learn of the busiest periods, according to the government.  Memory Stick  At subsequent meetings, Ahmed provided a computer memory
stick and a USB drive including images of stations in Arlington.
In September, he provided diagrams he had drawn of three
Metrorail stations and provided suggestions as to where
explosives should be placed on trains to kill the most people in
a simultaneous attack planned for 2011, prosecutors said.  U.S. investigators said they were monitoring Ahmed from the
start of the alleged plot.  Robert Gibbs , the White House press secretary, said in a
briefing today that law enforcement agencies were “on top of
this case from the beginning and at no point was the public in
any danger.”  The subway system covers 106 miles of tracks, providing
rail transportation through Washington, Virginia and Maryland.  The case is U.S. v. Ahmed, 10cr413, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington D.C. federal court
at   bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  