-- Virgin Media Third-Quarter Profit Rises on High-Speed Broadband Customers
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-10-27T08:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/virgin-media-third-quarter-profit-rises-on-high-speed-broadband-customers.html
Virgin Media Inc.,  the U.K.’s
second-largest pay-television company, said third-quarter
operating profit rose 11 percent as subscribers opted for its
faster and more expensive broadband products.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation,
amortization and other charges in the three months ended
September rose to 387.3 million pounds ($612.6 million), from
an adjusted 349 million pounds, the Hook, England-based company
said today in a statement. Sales climbed to 978 million pounds,
slightly ahead of analysts’ estimates of 971 million pounds.  Subscribers are taking faster broadband speeds, which
pushed up average cable revenue per user by 3.7 percent in the
quarter. The company is preparing to start its 100 megabits-
per-second broadband at the end of the year, and said it will
complete the roll out by the middle of 2012.  “Virgin Media’s network quality advantage and improved
customer experience have delivered another quarter of stronger
than expected results,” said Goldman Sachs analysts including
 Tim Boddy  in a note to clients. Virgin Media chose not to
compete with its largest competitors “in the marketing
battle,” they said.  The company’s marketing costs fell to 36.7 million pounds
from 39.7 million pounds in the previous quarter. Rival  BT
Group Plc  started showing  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc’s 
Sky Sports 1 and 2 through its television service in the
period. Virgin already shows the channels in high-definition.
BSkyB is the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV operator.  “You couldn’t turn a corner without seeing adverts” from
competitors, said Chief Executive Officer  Neil Berkett  on a
conference call with reporters. “There was so much capital
that was wasted last quarter it was unbelievable.”  Virgin Media started a 375 million-pound share buyback
program after it completed its refinancing program and said
today it concluded the first part of the buyback. Virgin also
entered into a hedging agreement to increase the conversion
price of its convertible notes from $19.22 to $35.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 