-- Visa Says Quarterly Profit Rises, Sets $1 Billion Buyback Plan
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-10-28T20:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/visa-says-quarterly-profit-rises-sets-1-billion-buyback-plan.html
Visa Inc. , the world’s biggest
payments network, fell the most in more than three months after
the company logged a quarterly profit that matched analysts’
estimates and said it may spend $1 billion to buy back shares.  Visa, which had beaten  estimates  in the prior 10 quarters,
fell 4.3 percent to $76.45 at 4:15 p.m. today in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, the steepest drop since July 16.  Chief Executive Officer  Joseph W. Saunders  is repurchasing
shares and boosting  dividends  as lawmakers, litigators and
regulators challenge the company’s fees and rules. Visa is
awaiting word from the Federal Reserve on how the central bank
will interpret Congress’s mandate to regulate debit-card fees
and earlier this month settled a U.S. antitrust lawsuit.  “While there are challenges to address, we remain
confident in our ability to adapt to the changing environment,”
Saunders, 64, said in a conference call with analysts after San
Francisco-based Visa reported earnings yesterday.  Fiscal fourth-quarter net income rose 51 percent to $774
million, or $1.06 a share, from $514 million, or 69 cents, in
the same period last year, Visa said in a statement. Adjusted
earnings per share, which excluded the revaluation of the
company’s Visa Europe Ltd. put option, were 95 cents, meeting
the estimate of 30 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Total operating revenue rose 13 percent to $2.1 billion in
the period ending Sept. 30. Visa expects net revenue growth of
11 percent to 15 percent for fiscal 2011, earnings per share to
rise more than 20 percent and free cash flow of more than $3
billion, Saunders said.  Debt Caps  The debit caps, set to take effect in July, won’t affect
Visa’s results until the fiscal fourth quarter of 2011, the
company said. The Fed may propose the rules by year-end.  “When the Fed is more explicit about rulemaking, then we
will be able to have a more informed discussion and more
informed guidance,” Chief Financial Officer  Byron Pollitt  said
during the conference call.  Transactions processed by Visa in the fourth quarter jumped
16 percent on an annualized basis to 12.1 billion, as spending
on credit and debit cards totaled $828 billion, a 14 percent
increase from a year earlier when adjusted for currency
fluctuations, the company said. Cross-border volumes climbed 16
percent, it said.  Regulatory Measures  Visa and No. 2 network  MasterCard Inc.  settled the Justice
Department’s lawsuit Oct. 4 as the U.S. challenged company
contracts that barred retailers from steering customers to
cheaper card brands and alternative payment forms.  American
Express Co.  is fighting the complaint. A separate antitrust case
brought by merchants against Visa and Purchase, New York-based
MasterCard is pending in federal court in Brooklyn, New York.  The stocks of both networks declined earlier this year as
Congress included caps on debit-card  interchange , or “swipe,”
fees, in the Dodd-Frank financial-regulatory overhaul. Visa and
MasterCard, which set the fees and pass the money to card-
issuing banks, may face pressure from lenders during contract
negotiations.  Bank of America Corp.  has said the debit caps may
trim annual interchange revenue by as much as $2.3 billion.  The contracts, Visa’s biggest  revenue  source, generated
$912 million in the fourth quarter, a 13 percent increase from
the year-earlier period, Visa said.  The company renewed “several” client contracts during the
fourth quarter and inked an early renewal of “a major
relationship that now leaves us with no major renewals until the
beginning of fiscal 2013,” Saunders said.  CyberSource  The quarterly results included Visa’s $2 billion
acquisition in July of CyberSource Corp., which helps merchants
accept payments online. Billable transactions processed on
CyberSource’s network surged 36 percent in the quarter to 829
million. CyberSource contributed $41 million in revenue in the
period, Visa said.  Visa booked a $79 million noncash charge tied to the fair
value of the Visa Europe put option.  The contract, if exercised, “will require us to purchase
all of Visa Europe’s outstanding capital stock from its
members,” Visa Inc. said in its 2009 annual report. “We will
incur a substantial financial obligation if Visa Europe
exercises the put option, which it may do at any time.”  Visa completed an earlier $1 billion stock repurchase in
the fourth quarter, buying 12.9 million shares in the full
fiscal year. The new plan runs through Sept. 30, 2011.  MasterCard, which is scheduled to report third-quarter
results on Nov. 2, fell 2.5 percent to $239.52, the most in more
than a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  