-- LVMH Says it May Add to Hermes Stake Acquired With 2008 Equity Swaps
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-27T19:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/lvmh-acquired-hermes-stake-using-equity-swaps-dating-to-2008-filing-shows.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA 
may increase its holdings in  Hermes International SCA  following
an earlier purchase of a 17.1 percent stake through equity swaps
deals made in 2008, according to a regulatory filing.  LVMH concluded the swap contracts for cash settlement with
three unnamed financial institutions in 2008. It then changed
the terms to take physical delivery of the underlying shares and
move the termination dates forward to Oct. 22 and 25, according
to a  statement  filed today with the France’s market regulator,
 Autorite des Marches Financiers , and posted on its website.  The company “foresees buying shares in Hermes
International, depending on the circumstances and the market
situation,” LVMH said. “LVMH supports Hermes International’s
strategic vision, its growth and positioning.”  LVMH, the world’s largest luxury-goods maker, announced
Oct. 23 it held a 14.2 percent stake and derivatives instruments
for another 2.9 percent in Hermes, the Paris-based maker of silk
scarves and Birkin bags. Yesterday, LVMH said it had exercised
those options in Hermes.  LVMH has said it doesn’t intend to launch a tender offer,
take control or seek board seats at Hermes, where about
75 percent of the shares are controlled by members of the
founding family. A call to Hermes seeking comment after regular
business hours wasn’t immediately returned.  Last Year’s Rules  Under disclosure rules implemented last year by the AMF, an
investor must report any acquisition of securities that entitle
it to more than 5 percent of a company’s equity. Yet LVMH’s
purchase of the Hermes stake may have exposed a problem with a
second set of disclosure rules for cash-settled securities where
there is no expectation shares will be physically delivered,
said  Colette Neuville , a French shareholder activist. Those
rules don’t kick in until an investor surpasses the first
5 percent threshold.  “You have a cash contract for two, three years, however
long you want without declaring anything because it’s in cash,
and the day you want to take the shares, you change the
contract,”  Neuville  said of LVMH’s statement. “Each operation
is legal in itself, but the combination of them is what makes
for a skirting of the regulations.”  LVMH acquired 12.13 percent of the shares through its
Sofidiv SAS unit, which took control of the swap contracts on
Oct. 21 and 22, making the change then from cash to physical
delivery of the shares. The unit also advanced the swap
settlement dates to this month from as far in the future as June
2012.  ‘Shocking’  “What is shocking in the case of LVMH is that ultimately,
they amassed three-quarters of the float without anyone seeing a
thing,” said Neuville, who worked with the AMF in tightening
the disclosure rules. “It’s not worth the trouble of making a
rule if you can get around it so easily.”  The AMF is reviewing the stake purchase to ensure LVMH
followed the regulations, a spokeswoman for the regulator said,
declining to comment further on the matter.  LVMH “scrupulously followed French market rules notably in
terms of rules regarding the breaching of share thresholds,”
the company said in an e-mailed statement Oct. 25. LVMH said it
is acting alone and financed the purchase itself, according to
today’s filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at   hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 