-- Vodafone London Store Closed After $2 Billion Tax Deal Protest
-- B y   A l i   S h e i k h o l e s l a m i   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-10-27T15:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/vodafone-london-store-closed-after-2-billion-tax-deal-protest.html
A  Vodafone Group Plc  store in
central London was temporarily closed today after protesters
demonstrated against a 1.25 billion-pound ($1.98 billion)
settlement over the taxation of the company’s Luxembourg unit.  Protesters outside the store in Oxford Street waved banners
calling the company “tax dodgers” and said Vodafone should pay
as much as 6 billion pounds in tax while the U.K. government is
seeking to cut the budget by the most since World War II.  In July,  Vodafone  agreed to settle a decade-long dispute
with the U.K. Revenue and Customs. The world’s biggest mobile-
phone company will pay 800 million pounds this financial year,
with the rest to be paid in installments over the next five
years. The dispute involved Britain’s Controlled Foreign
Companies laws relating to U.K. corporations that have units in
European Union countries with lower tax rates.  The settlement was reached “following a rigorous
examination of the facts and an intensive process of negotiation
that tested the arguments of both parties,” the tax agency said
today in an e-mailed statement. “There is no question of
Vodafone having an outstanding tax liability of 6 billion
pounds. That number is an urban myth.”  Vodafone had said it wasn’t liable for the tax, because its
Luxembourg business was a genuine commercial operation. The
company said in July it had set aside 3.1 billion pounds to
cover payments and interest in the dispute that started about 10
years ago.  “No further U.K. CFC tax liabilities will arise in the near
future under current legislation,” Newbury, England-based
Vodafone said at the time. Vodafone spokesman  Bobby Leach  today
referred back to that statement.  The U.K. government of Prime Minister  David Cameron  last
week unveiled the biggest budget cuts since World War II,
eliminating 490,000 jobs in a bid to wipe out a record budget
deficit by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net .
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 