-- VW Passes Toyota Target as Ford Surges Ahead in Profit Race
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2010-10-27T16:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/volkswagen-brand-nine-month-profit-quadruples-on-china-demand.html
Volkswagen AG , the world’s third-
largest carmaker, passed Toyota Motor Corp.’s full-year profit
target in the first nine months of the year, as a resurgent Ford
Motor Co. soared ahead in the auto industry earnings race.  VW’s nine-month net income jumped fivefold to 3.78 billion
euros ($5.2 billion).  Toyota  said Aug. 4 the carmaker is
targeting net income of 340 billion yen ($4.16 billion) for the
fiscal year ending in March. Ford earned $6.37 billion in the
first three quarters to become the most profitable carmaker.  Volkswagen Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  aims
to deliver 10 million vehicles by 2018 and overtake Toyota as
the world’s No. 1 in sales. By then, he plans to have the best
profit margins as well. VW’s earnings are advancing as customers
in China, VW’s biggest market, buy Santana and Lavida sedans.  “VW is totally focused on the BRIC markets, the extent to
which China is penetrated by VW is enormous,” said  Aleksej Wunrau , an analyst at BHF-Bank in Frankfurt who has a “strong
buy” recommendation on VW.  “That’s why Toyota is feeling the
pressure.”  VW expects 2010 global sales to be “clearly” above last
year’s record of 6.29 million cars and sport-utility vehicles.
Toyota, the world’s biggest carmaker, aims to deliver 7.38
million vehicles in the fiscal year through March.  Ford , the
fourth-largest automaker, doesn’t have a sales target. General
Motors Co. is the second biggest.  Ford Revival  Ford CEO  Alan Mulally  has revived the carmaker by improving
quality and increasing the namesake brand’s offerings. Ford
yesterday reported net income of $1.69 billion, its biggest
third-quarter profit in the 107-year-old company’s history.
Ford, which sold European luxury lines including Volvo Cars to
focus on the main brand, had nine-month global deliveries of
3.92 million units.  Winterkorn aims for a pretax profit as a percentage of
sales of more than 8 percent in 2018. VW’s nine-month pretax
margin was 5.9 percent, while  Ford ’s was 7.9 percent, according
to Bloomberg calculations. Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota,
which reports on a fiscal year ending in March, had a first-
quarter margin of 5.4 percent.  “VW is closing in on Toyota on profitability targets,”
said  Tim Schuldt , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Equinet AG who
recommends buying Volkswagen shares. “What matters now is to
keep expanding the product portfolio to underpin the positive
trend on deliveries.”  Volkswagen’s preferred  shares  have gained 60 percent this
year, valuing the carmaker at 44.7 billion euros. Ford’s stock
has risen 42 percent, while Toyota has dropped 25 percent.  China Focus  VW is focusing on China, the world’s largest auto market,
to boost the group’s results. Volkswagen’s nine-month operating
profit in the country more than doubled to 1.32 billion euros.
The Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker announced plans this year
to add two Chinese factories, bringing Volkswagen’s total in the
country to 11.  VW  is investing 6 billion euros to double
production in China to 3 million vehicles within four years from
1.4 million in 2009.  “VW is superbly positioned on a global scale; they’re
unbelievably strong in China which remains a goldmine,” said
 Frank Schwope , a NordLB analyst in Hanover, Germany, with a
“hold” recommendation on the stock. “Their biggest problem
will be to expand capacities in a proper way so that this huge
growth won’t stall.”  VW, which reported nine-month sales climbed 18 percent to
92.5 billion euros and operating profit tripled to 4.82 billion
euros, said today 2010  revenue  and earnings before interest and
tax “will continue to develop positively.”  Pole Position  “The Volkswagen group continues to have its sights firmly
set on capturing pole position in the automotive industry,”
Winterkorn said today in a statement.  Mulally, 65, has said Ford will deliver “solid profits”
this year and generate positive automotive operating cash flow
and that 2011 will be even better.  Ford , based in Dearborn,
Michigan, may have net income of $7.64 billion in 2010,
according to the average estimate of four analysts.  Ford is boosting profits because new models like the Fiesta
subcompact are fetching higher prices as buyers choose options
such as leather seats. Ford buyers in the U.S. paid an average
of $30,636 per model in September, up 10 percent from five years
ago, according to researcher Edmunds.com of Santa Monica,
California. Higher average prices helped add $400 million to
third-quarter pretax automotive profits, Ford said.  Stronger Yen  “With favorable product and pricing, we expect Ford to
continue to improve its earnings power in 2011,” Barclays
Capital analyst  Brian Johnson , who rates Ford a “buy,” wrote
in a note today to investors. “We expect the third quarter’s
strong performance to continue into the fourth.”  Toyota’s net income goal of 340 billion yen is based on a
forecast of 90 yen to the dollar. Toyota President  Akio Toyoda 
said yesterday he will likely revise his currency assumption to
about 80 yen to the dollar. The strengthening Japanese currency
reduces the value of repatriated profits from exports. Toyoda,
who will report second-quarter results Nov. 5, told TV Tokyo the
yen’s appreciation gave him “an extreme sense of crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 