-- Volvo Cars Plans as Many as Three Chinese Plants, Jacoby Says
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-10-27T14:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/volvo-cars-plans-as-many-as-three-chinese-auto-plants-chief-jacoby-says.html
Volvo Cars, the Swedish carmaker
owned by China’s  Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. , may build
vehicles at as many as three plants in the country, Chief
Executive Officer  Stefan Jacoby  said.  Volvo is committed to increasing production in China, and
its board will decide on sites once it receives approvals from
the country’s regulators, Jacoby said in an interview today at
an automotive conference in Stockholm.  “It depends on how strong we’re selling in the future” in
China, Jacoby said. The southwestern city of Chengdu, a
production hub for carmaker Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd., is a
possible location, he said.  Zhejiang Geely bought Gothenburg-based Volvo from  Ford
Motor Co.  in August for about $1.5 billion. Expanding in China
is key to Volvo’s goal of doubling sales to 800,000 cars in
10 years. Volvo, which is working to develop its dealer network,
hasn’t decided yet on how and when to expand production capacity
in China, Jacoby said.  Volvo now builds the S40 and S80L cars for the  Chinese
market  at a factory co-owned by Ford and Chongqing Changan
Automobile Co. Volvo will be able to use the plant for another
couple years, the Swedish company’s officials have said.  Jacoby arrived in Sweden today from the U.S., where he got
“the first insight on the U.S. market from the Volvo
perspective,” the executive said. Jacoby joined Volvo in August
after running the U.S. operations of Wolfsburg, Germany-based
 Volkswagen AG , Europe’s biggest carmaker.  U.S. Deliveries  The Volkswagen brand’s U.S. sales fell 4.3 percent last
year to 213,454 vehicles, slower than the 21 percent
industrywide contraction in the country. Volvo’s U.S. deliveries
dropped 16 percent to 61,435 vehicles.  “Fact is, we are losing market share and volume in the
United States” at Volvo, Jacoby said. “This is something we
need to change, and this is something we will change.”  Volvo should be able to sell 100,000 cars in the U.S. in
two to three years, he said in a speech at the auto conference,
reiterating a target he spelled out last month.  “I can’t tell you anything about the strategy because we
don’t have the puzzle pieces together,” Jacoby said in the
interview.  Volvo’s ability to expand sales will depend on employees
“working hard” and having the right attitude, Jacoby told
conference delegates. The company’s deliveries have hovered at
about 400,000 cars for years, and “there seems to be some kind
of mental barrier to expand beyond this,” Jacoby said. “I see
absolutely no reason why we can’t sell 800,000 Volvos in 10
years, in 2020, if we do things right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  