-- VW Leads European Issuers Facing $1 Trillion of Refinancing, Moody's Says
-- B y   B r y a n   K e o g h
-- 2010-10-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/vw-leads-european-issuers-facing-1-trillion-of-refinancing-moody-s-says.html
Volkswagen AG  and Daimler AG lead
European companies that must repay more than $1 trillion of
maturing debt in the next four years, raising the risk of
borrowers struggling to refinance as interest rates rise,
according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Investment-grade companies in Europe, the Middle East and
Africa have about $380 billion of bank debt and $650 billion of
bonds maturing from 2011 to 2014, Moody’s analysts led by  Jean- Michel Carayon  in Paris wrote in a report published today.
Volkswagen, Europe’s largest carmaker, and rival Daimler have
the most debt coming due, with $46.2 billion and $39.9 billion,
according to the New York-based ratings firm.  Non-financial borrowers sold 92.1 billion euros ($127.7
billion) of investment-grade debt in Europe this year following
a record 279.3 billion euros of issuance in 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Borrowing costs at a five-year low
helped stoke sales. A deterioration in Europe’s economy combined
with higher interest rates may challenge companies’ ability to
refinance debt, the Moody’s analysts wrote.  “The risk arises because the refunding might affect the
future cost of debt and might take place at a time when the
borrowing needs of large sovereign issuers are still
heightened,” they wrote. “While Moody’s central economic
scenario remains that of a ‘hook-shaped recovery,’ downside
risks to this central scenario include the failure of fiscal
policy to restore business and consumer confidence.”  Telecoms Companies  Telecommunications companies have the most debt maturing,
accounting for 15 percent of the total, according to Moody’s.
Energy companies have 14 percent of the debt, while the
automotive industry is third with 12 percent. German companies
have the greatest share at 22 percent, the analysts wrote.  Even with this debt coming due, the region’s corporate bond
market continues to rally as the European Central Bank’s record-
low 1 percent main interest rate keeps down yields on many
alternative investments.  European  corporate bond yields fell to 3.2 percent on Oct.
12, the lowest since September 2005 and down from 3.82 percent
in June, according to Barclays Capital’s Euro Aggregate
Corporate Index. Yields now average 3.39 percent, the data show.  Volkswagen and Daimler’s bonds have rallied in the past
five months. Wolfsburg, Germany-based  Volkswagen ’s 3.375 percent
notes due 2014 yield 103 basis points more than benchmark
government notes, down from as much as 187 basis points in May,
according to pricing data compiled by Bloomberg.  Daimler Notes  Daimler ’s 2 billion euros of 4.625 percent notes due 2014
yield 121 basis points more than similar-maturity government
bonds, the data show. The yield on the notes from the maker of
Mercedes-Benz vehicles is down from 206 basis points in May. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Borrowers are also turning to the bond market to meet their
refinancing needs as banks focus on rebuilding their capital
buffers, Moody’s said.  “Investor demand for investment-grade corporate credit has
been very robust,” the analysts wrote. “The main question is
whether the debt markets will be able to sustain such demand.
That depends both on the capacity of the markets to provide
funding and on the ability of issuers to afford it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  