-- Wall Seeks Saskatchewan Resolution Urging Rejection of BHP Bid for Potash
-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-27T20:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/wall-seeks-saskatchewan-resolution-asking-for-potash-rejection.html
Saskatchewan Premier  Brad Wall ’s
government will introduce a motion in the legislature asking the
federal government to reject BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion
hostile offer for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  on concern
that it would harm the province.  The proposed takeover “presents too many risks to the
people of our province and fails to provide a net benefit to
Saskatchewan and Canada,” Wall said in the text of a so-called
 Throne Speech , which opened a new legislative session today. The
speech didn’t give a timeframe for debate on the motion.  Canadian Industry Minister  Tony Clement  told reporters in
Ottawa today he is still gathering facts in a review of whether
the bid meets a ‘net benefits” test, and he has until Nov. 3 to
rule unless BHP Billiton agrees to an extension. Potash Corp.,
based in Saskatoon, has rejected BHP’s $130-a-share offer as too
low and said it was seeking alternatives amid rising prices for
agricultural commodities.  “No matter who owns the potash mines, the potash belongs
to the people of Saskatchewan,” said the speech written by
Wall’s government and read by Lieutenant Governor Gordon
Barnhart. “This principle, and the best interests of our
province and its people, will guide the actions of my government
in its deliberations on this important matter.”  Former Canadian Prime Minister  Paul Martin  said the bid
needs careful scrutiny because the provincial government has
objected to the sale.  ‘Saskatchewan Has Spoken’  “The government of Saskatchewan has spoken,” Martin said
in a Bloomberg Television interview in London today. “People
have got to give full consideration to what Saskatchewan is
saying.”  Saskatchewan’s energy minister  Bill Boyd  said in an
interview yesterday there is no need for any new discussions
with BHP Billiton and he isn’t aware of any rival bids for
Potash Corp. After meeting federal politicians in Ottawa
yesterday, he said “it looks like the government is prepared to
make a decision on this by the self-imposed deadline.”  Potash Corp. rose $1.75, or 1.2 percent, to $147.30 at
3:34 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. BHP fell
33 pence, or 1.5 percent, to 2,163.5 pence in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gene Laverty  in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 