-- Wells Fargo Will File More Foreclosure Affidavits After Lapses
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-28T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/wells-fargo-finds-foreclosure-lapses-will-file-more-affidavits.html
Wells Fargo & Co. , the biggest U.S.
home lender, said it will file supplemental foreclosure
affidavits to courts in about 55,000 proceedings after finding
some statements “did not strictly adhere to the required
procedures.”  The bank, which has proceeded with home seizures while
rivals including  Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. 
delayed theirs, said yesterday in a statement that it found some
lapses during a review of its processes. The lender will begin
filings immediately in 23 states and aims to complete them by
mid-November, subject to local laws, according to the statement.  “The issues the company has identified do not relate in
any way to the quality of the customer and loan data,” the San
Francisco-based bank said in the statement. “Nor does the
company believe that any of these instances led to foreclosures
which should not have otherwise occurred.”  Attorneys general in all 50 states started a probe into
foreclosure practices after court documents surfaced showing
employees signed papers without ensuring their accuracy. Bank of
America, JPMorgan and Ally Financial Inc. temporarily suspended
some foreclosure sales or evictions, pending reviews. Wells
Fargo reiterated in the statement that it doesn’t intend to stop
foreclosure sales.  “The company has identified instances where a final step
in its processes relating to the execution of the foreclosure
affidavits (including a final review of the affidavit, as well
as some aspects of the notarization process) did not strictly
adhere to the required procedures,” it said in the statement.  Wells Fargo has assigned 160 employees in four offices to
be part of the review, said  Teri Schrettenbrunner , a spokeswoman
for the company, in a phone interview. One of the procedural
errors included a notary who failed to complete a logbook in the
manner required by certain states, she said.  In the third quarter, Wells Fargo reduced reserves to buy
back soured mortgages to $1.3 billion from $1.4 billion in the
second quarter. The affidavit “issues” don’t affect the
estimated repurchase liabilities as of Sept. 30, the bank said
in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Donal Griffin  in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 