-- Wheat Futures Cap Longest Rally Since August on Dry Weather in U.S. Plains
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-10-27T20:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/wheat-heads-for-longest-rally-since-august-on-dry-weather-in-u-s-plains.html
Wheat futures rose, capping the
longest rally in almost three months, on concern that dry
weather in the U.S. Great Plains will harm the early development
of winter crops.  Kansas, the largest U.S. winter-wheat producer, may get
“little to no rain” in the next two weeks, QT Weather said
today in a report. Parts of Kansas and Colorado are experiencing
“moderate”  drought , according to data from the University of
Nebraska in Lincoln.  In Kansas, “it is really spotty in the western part of the
state, and that concerns me,” said  Larry Glenn , an analyst at
Frontier Ag in Quinter, Kansas. “You may see a field with 15 to
20 feet planted, and right next to that, there’s nothing there.
We may have lost some seeds because germination isn’t taking
place.”  Wheat futures for December delivery climbed 10.75 cents, or
1.6 percent, to settle at $7.0275 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. That marked the fourth straight gain,
the longest rally since early August. Earlier, the commodity
reached $7.075, the highest level since Oct. 18.  The U.S.  crop  was rated 47 percent good to excellent in the
week ended Oct. 24, down from 62 percent a year earlier,
according to the Department of Agriculture.  Demand for wheat to make livestock feed may increase
because the premium to corn has narrowed, said  Mark Schultz , the
chief analyst at Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in
Minneapolis. On Oct. 21, cash wheat prices in Kansas City were
$1.045 a bushel more than corn, the smallest premium since July.  “Eventually, if you get too close in price, you run the
risk of having more wheat making it into feed rations,” Schultz
said. “You have some of that going on globally with feed wheat
being abundant this year, and that would explain why it’s been
pretty lousy on corn exports as of late.”  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  