-- World Series Gives S.F. Giants Chance to Fix City's `Last Frontier'
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2010-10-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/world-series-gives-giants-chance-to-renew-city-s-opium-den-last-frontier.html
Docks once laden with bananas from
Central America and opium from China gave way to the $357
million privately built ballpark that hosts the World Series
beginning tonight.  The San Francisco Giants say they hope to spur a similar
transformation of the mostly neglected area behind AT&T Park,
where they welcome the Texas Rangers in the opening game of a
best-of-seven matchup for Major League Baseball’s championship.  Giants President  Larry Baer  looks at the parking lots and
decrepit docks sitting just beyond the right-field wall and
envisions a cultural, residential and retail complex.  “It’s really the last frontier in San Francisco,” Baer,
53, said in an interview in his ballpark office. “There’s
nowhere else in San Francisco left to build.”  The 1989 earthquake that devastated the southeastern part
of the city created a catalyst for redevelopment of that area
and, in 2000, the new ballpark.  Along with the 42,300-seat stadium abutting San Francisco
Bay, a new $648 million light-rail line and a biotechnology
center anchored by the University of California, San Francisco,
helped revive the 300-acre Mission Bay area that urban planner
 Gabriel Metcalf , 40, called “dying formerly industrial land.”  “The Giants’ ballpark is one of the great success stories
in America of urban revitalization,” Metcalf, executive
director of SPUR, the San Francisco Planning and Urban Research
Association, a non-profit public policy group, said in a
telephone interview. “We did a lot of other things around the
ballpark at the same time, and didn’t just hope it would work
its magic on its own.”  Arena Plans  Baer said the area behind the ballpark may be the site of a
concert hall, or a sports arena that might seek to lure the
National Basketball Association’s Golden State Warriors back to
San Francisco from Oakland, as part of an “activated,
multifaceted place for people to work and live in the city.”  The original price tag for the entire project, including an
NBA-type arena, was $1.2 billion, Baer said, adding that any
development would be done in phases.  The San Francisco-Oakland area’s gross domestic product was
$301 billion in 2008, ranking it 18th among the world’s cities,
according to a report by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  John Rahaim, 55, the city’s  planning  director, said some
plans to continue development near the ballpark have stalled
because of the economy. He said the idea of building a sports
center across from AT&T Park could work.  ‘Good Synergies’  “There are good synergies to having an arena there, if
it’s done right,” he said in a telephone interview. “It’s
important to have it be part of a mixed-use thing and not just
an arena.”  Unlike almost all American stadiums, such as the publicly
subsidized new Yankee Stadium and Citi Field in New York, AT&T
Park was built with private funds -- including a $170 million
bank loan and $100 million from naming rights and sponsorships.
The only public help was a $15 million bond paid off with Giants
property taxes.  While he doesn’t rule out public financing of a
redevelopment project, Baer said he envisions a similar plan
spurred by private financing. Real estate development firms  The
Cordish Companies  and  Wilson Meany Sullivan , as well as  Farallon
Capital Management LLC , are among the companies involved in the
project, Baer said.  “I don’t see us really looking to the city for anything
but help with entitlements and improvements,” he said.  Long Giants Drought  The Giants have not won the World Series since 1954, when
the franchise was based in New York. The Rangers are playing in
the championship round for the first time in franchise history.  Tim Lincecum , who has won the past two Cy Young Awards as
the National League’s best pitcher, will start tonight for the
Giants.  Cliff Lee , who has won all seven of his postseason
decisions, will be on the mound for the Rangers, who are the 5-6
favorite at the Las Vegas Hilton to win the championship.  The area behind the ballpark, which is leased by the Giants
from the Port of San Francisco on a year-to-year basis, is built
on landfill and once was part of San Francisco Bay. The port
budgeted for a 1 percent dip in revenue to $63.9 million in the
12 months through June 30 and has forecast a 25 percent rise to
$80.1 million by fiscal 2015.  The ballpark itself sits where the Pacific Mail Steamship
Company unloaded silk, tea, rice and opium from Asia in the
early 20th century. That commerce, and the large number of
Chinese workers on those docks, led to the area being called
China Basin.  The Del Monte Fruit Co.  built a cannery-warehouse
there in 1925 to unload banana boats.  Bars, Piers  After World War II, it became an abandoned site of
underutilized rail lines and crumbling piers. Bars and cafes
served longshoremen, and the few residents of the area lived in
mobile homes.  “If you wanted to get rid of your car, you’d take your
plates off and park it down there,”  Meade Boutwell , a senior
vice president at Los Angeles-based  CB Richard Ellis  real estate
firm, said in a telephone interview. Now “it’s the epicenter of
development in San Francisco.”  The parking lots eyed by the Giants for development are
bordered on the north by McCovey Cove, where kayakers race for
home-run balls hit into the water, and on the south by new
buildings with signs offering “prestigious waterfront office
space.” The cove is named for 72-year-old Giants Hall of Fame
first baseman  Willie McCovey .  The Giants, who moved to San Francisco from New York in
1958 and spent four decades in wind-swept Candlestick Park, led
a successful campaign for approval of Measure B in March 1996
that cleared the way for their downtown ballpark.  Record Sales  Between the beginning of 1996 and the middle of 1998, city
officials recorded 215 real-estate transactions in the China
Basin area that borders Mission Bay -- equaling the number from
the previous quarter century.  Baer said his only regret is not being more aggressive from
the start as the surrounding neighborhood was being developed,
and he is trying to catch up now.  “There are so many opportunities that are within a five-
minute walk for adding to the urban landscape,” he said. “The
opportunity to build a new neighborhood around this ballpark and
to help seed the future of this neighborhood for generations is
something that’s wonderful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  