-- Yahoo Mail Gets Photo, Twitter Features to Help Ward Off Gmail
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-10-27T20:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/yahoo-updates-e-mail-in-bid-to-stave-off-google-s-gmail-threat.html
Yahoo! Inc. , owner of the biggest
Web e-mail program in the U.S., is updating the service to
attract more users and stem defections to Google Inc.’s Gmail
and social-networking sites.  Yahoo  said it will introduce a version of e-mail today that
integrates posts from  Twitter Inc.  and delivers information at
faster speeds. The new service, still in a test phase, also
improves searches, spam protection and the viewing of photos.  Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz  aims to counter social-
communication sites like Facebook Inc. and keep from losing more
users to Google, which is adding features such as video chats to
Gmail. Yahoo needs e-mail to lure users to its Web portal and
sustain advertising, its biggest source of revenue.  “It’s definitely a step in the right direction,” said
 Aaron Kessler , an analyst with ThinkEquity LLC in San Francisco,
who recommends investors buy Yahoo’s stock and doesn’t own it.
“Google’s taken the lead in terms of technology.”  The number of Yahoo mail users in the U.S. fell 10 percent
to 94.6 million in September from the year-earlier period,
according to ComScore Inc. in Reston, Virginia.  Google ’s Gmail,
while still a distant No. 2, rose 25 percent to 49 million in
that period.  Microsoft Corp. ’s e-mail service, ranked third,
fell 5 percent to 46.3 million.  Broader Slowdown  All three companies face competition from social networks,
which give Web users new ways to stay in touch, such as through
status updates, postings on one another’s profile pages and chat
features. Total online e-mail usage declined 2 percent in the
U.S. to 158.3 million, according to ComScore.  “They’re being overshadowed by some of the social
networking that’s happening with Facebook and Twitter, where
people are using some of these things almost in lieu of what
they might have been doing with e-mail,” said  Al Hilwa , an
analyst at IDC in Redmond, Washington.  Yahoo , based in Sunnyvale, California, fell 4 cents to
$16.42 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The
shares have dropped 2.1 percent this year.  Yahoo ’s new e-mail features, which users have to opt in to
access, will let them reach out to friends through instant
messaging and texting tools from their in-boxes. The service
will feature photos from Yahoo’s Flickr, as well as Google’s
Picasa and YouTube video site.  ‘Fundamental Transformation’  “It’s a fundamental transformation of the platform,” said
Kakul Srivastava, a vice president at  Yahoo . “This is probably
the biggest core re-architecture of the product in about five
years.”  While social-networking sites are changing the way people
stay in touch, e-mail is still an important way to communicate,
said Shar VanBoskirk, an analyst with Forrester Research Inc. in
Cambridge, Massachusetts.  “E-mail is still a big deal,” VanBoskirk said. “E-mail
is never going to go away.”  Google , the world’s most popular search engine, built Gmail
around the idea of making it easy to search for messages, rather
than putting them in folders. The company’s size and reach into
different product areas are helping it attract users in ways
that Yahoo can’t easily match, Hilwa said.  Google’s search page includes a prominent link to Gmail,
and the company’s mobile operating system, Android, encourages
users to sign up for e-mail accounts on their phones. Unlike
Yahoo, Google also has its own Web browser, Chrome.  “Google really has a platform to win new users,” Hilwa
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  