-- Hybrid, Battery Car Demand Overhyped, J.D. Power Says
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-10-27T17:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/hybrid-electric-car-demand-may-be-overhyped-j-d-power-says.html
Demand for hybrid cars and electric
vehicles may be more modest than advocates for those fuel-saving
technologies expect, capturing only 7.3 percent of global sales
by 2020, according to a forecast by J.D. Power & Associates.  Combined deliveries of hybrids, such as Toyota Motor
Corp.’s Prius, and battery-powered cars including  Nissan Motor
Co. ’s Leaf may reach 5.2 million units that year, out of an
estimated 70.9 million passenger vehicle sales, J.D. Power said
in the study released today. That falls short of Nissan-Renault
Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn ’s prediction that electric
cars alone will be 10 percent of global sales by 2020.  “Consumers will ultimately decide whether these vehicles
are commercially successful or not,” said  John Humphrey , senior
vice president of automotive operations for J.D. Power. Given
consumer attitudes toward such vehicles and “barring
significant changes to public policy, including tax incentives
and higher fuel-economy standards, we don’t anticipate a mass
migration to green vehicles in the coming decade.”  Carmakers and governments in the U.S., Europe, Japan and
China are spending billions of dollars to speed development of
autos that use little or no petroleum to curb greenhouse gas
emissions and reduce exposure to oil-price swings. The Obama
administration committed at least $11 billion in taxpayer aid to
help Nissan, Ford Motor Co., Tesla Motors Inc. and other car and
battery makers get electric vehicles into production.  China Question  “It’s not a matter of if, but how fast and to what extent,
different electrified vehicles will be adopted as we approach an
electrification tipping point,” Oliver Hazimeh, auto industry
analyst for consulting company PRTM in Chicago, said today.  PRTM estimates that by 2020 electric vehicles may be 5
percent of global sales; plug-in hybrids, which operate as both
battery cars for brief periods and hybrids, may reach 6 percent;
and hybrids will account for 20 percent, Hazimeh said.  Demand may exceed 7.3 percent globally should China’s
government push electric-vehicle sales at a more aggressive
pace, according to J.D. Power. Global hybrid and battery-
electric vehicle sales may total 954,500 in 2010, or 2.2 percent
of vehicles likely to be sold in 2010, the Westlake Village,
California-based company said.  Hybrid and electric cars have been niche products in global
markets so far, purchased mainly by people who are older, more
educated and have higher incomes than the average consumer, J.D.
Power said.  “Many consumers say they are concerned about the
environment, but when they find out how much a green vehicle is
going to cost, their altruistic inclination declines
considerably,” Humphrey said. In the U.S., the number of people
who say they’re interested in buying a hybrid drops 50 percent
when they learn such vehicles typically cost about $5,000 more
than equivalent models with gasoline engines only, he said.  Prius, Leaf, Volt  Based on consumer interviews, J.D. Power said concerns
about advanced vehicles include their looks and design,
reliability, overall power and performance, range and time
needed to recharge battery packs.  Toyota’s Prius is the world’s best-selling alternative-fuel
vehicle, with cumulative deliveries of more than 2 million units
since it was introduced in Japan in 1997. Sales of the Leaf and
 General Motors Co. ’s plug-in Volt sedan, likely to be the top-
selling U.S. rechargeable models in 2011, begin late this year.  Nissan aims to deliver 20,000 Leafs to U.S. drivers in the
first year. The car travels as far as 100 miles (160 kilometers)
on a full charge of its lithium-ion batteries. The Yokohama,
Japan-based company plans to develop enough plant capacity to be
able to build as many as 500,000 Leafs worldwide by late 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  