-- Lynas Declines to Lowest in Three Weeks in Sydney After JPMorgan Downgrade
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-10-27T05:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/lynas-declines-to-lowest-in-three-weeks-in-sydney-after-jpmorgan-downgrade.html
Lynas Corp. , building a A$550
million ($535 million) rare earths project in Australia, fell to
the lowest in three weeks in Sydney trading after JPMorgan Chase
& Co. downgraded the stock following recent gains.  Lynas dropped 6.7 percent to A$1.45 at the 4:10 p.m. close
in Sydney to the lowest since Oct. 5. The Sydney-based company’s
shares have dropped 17 percent since reaching a record on Oct.
21.  Alkane Resources Ltd. , which is seeking to develop a project
to produce the minerals used in hybrid cars and wind turbines,
declined 11 percent to 76 Australian cents..  “They can’t keep running like that,”  Lucinda Chan ,
division director and head of Asian business at Macquarie
Private Wealth in Sydney said by phone. “You’ve seen trading
play in there without a doubt and there’s been a lot of talk of
rare earths, their strength and the Chinese market.”  The market values of companies with rare earth assets have
doubled and tripled since July when China, the world’s biggest
supplier, said it would cut shipments by 72 percent in the
second half. Lynas is developing the Mt. Weld project, with
first output due next year.  “Time to let project delivery catch up with the share
price,” JPMorgan analysts led by  Alistair Reid  said yesterday
in a report, cutting the bank’s rating on Lynas to “neutral”
from “overweight.” The project “remains at risk from
unforeseen cost inflation and-or commissioning delays.
Importantly, we believe the current share price is already
factoring in much of the upside from successful commissioning,”
they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  