-- News Corp. Reboots MySpace in Quest to Recapture Young Crowd
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   R o n   G r o v e r
-- 2010-10-27T20:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/myspace-recast-as-entertainment-hub-in-news-corp-quest-to-recapture-young.html
News Corp. ’s MySpace is introducing
a new website design with a focus on younger users in a drive to
stem subscriber losses and distinguish itself from Facebook, the
biggest social network.  Starting today, most U.S. users will be able to access the
 site ’s most-popular music and videos, updated in real time. They
can choose between homepage views and earn rewards for postings,
according to Beverly Hills, California-based MySpace. The new
version will be available worldwide by the end of November.  News Corp. is trying to rejuvenate MySpace, which fell
behind Facebook in U.S. users in May 2009, according to ComScore
Inc. data. The strategy hinges on drawing 13-to-35-year-olds
seeking an entertainment-centric social network separate from
parents and other adults on Facebook, MySpace Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Jones  said in an interview.  “This is a full rethink,” Jones said. “This is an
entirely different product.”  The site lost less than $100 million in the year ended in
June, MySpace said in an e-mail. That’s narrower than the $350
million loss estimated by RBC Capital Markets analyst  David Bank .  MySpace wants users to connect based on shared interests in
music, TV shows, films and celebrity news, among other
categories, after previously helping subscribers simply link up
with friends. A mobile version that doesn’t require users to
have accounts will be available in mid-November, Jones said.  MySpace averaged 57.5 million U.S. visitors in September,
24 percent fewer monthly visitors than its peak of 75.9 million
in December 2008, according to  ComScore  data. Jones, 35, joined
MySpace in April 2009 as chief operating officer. The company
today announced his promotion to CEO. Facebook has more than 500
million members worldwide.  Three Settings  Users can view the MySpace site in three settings. They can
select a traditional homepage with a profile picture, columns
separating friends, a running commentary and events. The site
will still let users personalize pages with backgrounds, a
feature not available on  Facebook .  In another setting, a user’s entire screen is over taken by
a slideshow of recommended videos, messages from friends and
news flashes from bands and other interests.  A third setting displays a quilt of messages, media and
tiles of information that are updated constantly.  The videos are pulled from TV networks including News
Corp.’s Fox and from  Google Inc. ’s YouTube, and can be assembled
into a personal TV playlist. A similar feature lets users
assemble a music playlist that that others may share. Jones also
replaced MySpace’s bright-blue logo with the word “MY”
followed by a fill-in-the-blank space that will feature artwork
from users, artists and celebrities.  Loyalty Program  MySpace plans to reward users who contribute content and
attract a following. The more members upload videos and post on
a topic, for example the Fox TV show “ Glee ,” the more MySpace
will promote their profile. Users will also receive badges that
let others know they are a “taste maker.”  Leading up to the debut of today’s redesign, Jones has cut
homepage clutter, introduced mobile features and added the
ability to sync accounts with Facebook and YouTube.  News Corp.’s digital operations, including MySpace, lost
$575 million last year, according to company reports.  Chase Carey , chief operating officer of New York-based News
Corp., set a goal of making MySpace cash positive by the end of
the fiscal year ending in June 2011. News Corp. doesn’t break
out results of MySpace, which it  bought  in 2005 with the $580
million purchase of Intermix.  Site’s Valuation  If the site doesn’t turn around, New York-based News Corp.
will likely sell the business within two years, analyst Bank
said. MySpace is worth about $300 million,  Alan Gould , an
analyst with New York-based Evercore Partners Inc., said in an
e-mail.  News Corp., also owner of the Twentieth Century Fox film
studio and the Wall Street Journal, gained 1 cent at to $14.32
at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The
shares have advanced 4.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  