-- Yuan Loan 30% Cheaper as Hong Kong Deposits Hit $20 Billion: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-28T08:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-27/yuan-loan-30-cheaper-as-hong-kong-deposits-hit-20-billion-china-credit.html
The  130 billion yuan  ($19 billion)
of savings in Hong Kong’s banks is making it cheaper for Chinese
companies to borrow yuan-denominated loans in the city rather
than back home.  China Automation Group Ltd.  will pay 4.6 percent interest
for 3 1/2-year yuan funding in the first syndicated loan
arranged in Hong Kong using the currency, according to Chief
Financial Officer  Cui Da Chao . A similar-maturity loan in China
would cost as much as 6.6 percent, the company said.  “Borrowing renminbi in Hong Kong is much cheaper than in
China,” Cui said in a phone interview from Beijing, referring
to the yuan by its alternative name. The maker of safety control
systems for the chemicals and rail industries is arranging a $40
million facility of which the yuan loan is a part.  Lending in yuan outside China is a step in Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s efforts to open financial markets while seeking to
avoid currency gains that would jeopardize growth in the nation
of 1.3 billion people. Though the rate on China Automation’s
loan is 2 percentage points less than a similar-maturity loan in
China, it’s still 1.6 percentage points more than what Houston,
Texas-based Patterson-UTI Energy Inc. pays on credit with a
similar maturity.  Yuan deposits in Hong Kong, which is controlled by China
yet operates its own legal and financial systems, doubled to a
record 130 billion yuan in the first eight months of 2010, Hong
Kong central bank data show, on anticipation of currency gains.  Yuan Expectations  “Hong Kong residents are buying yuan, and bank deposits
are growing,”  Mitul Kotecha , the Hong Kong-based head of global
foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Agricole CIB, said in a
phone interview. “China wants to use Hong Kong to help
internationalize the yuan, and there’s also this expectation the
yuan will strengthen.”  The yuan appreciated 2.2 percent versus the dollar since a
two-year peg was relaxed in June, and non-deliverable forwards
show traders are betting on 2.8 percent increase in the coming
12 months. It weakened 0.1 percent to 6.6870 per dollar as of
3:13 p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System.  Elsewhere in China’s debt market, the cost of insuring
against losses on Chinese government debt rose yesterday after
bond yields reached the highest in nine months. Interest-rate
swaps were little changed and  Lenovo Group Ltd. , China’s biggest
maker of personal computers, hired seven banks to help it borrow
$500 million in a revolving loan.  Default Swaps, Yields  Five-year credit-default swap contracts on the nation’s
bonds climbed 3.5 basis points to 59.6 basis points, CMA prices
in New York show. The contracts have fallen about 10 percent in
October following a drop of 19 percent in September.  Credit-default swaps typically decline as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to debt agreements. Government debt investors
usually buy the contracts to hedge against a rise in yields.  The yield on the 3.28 percent government bond due August
2020 has risen 28 basis points this month to 3.6 percent, after
reaching the highest level for a benchmark 10-year note since
January yesterday, Interbank Funding Center data show. China’s
debt has returned 7.9 percent this year, compared with 15
percent in Brazil and 11 percent in Russia,  JPMorgan indexes 
show.  Interest-Rate Swaps  One-year interest-rate  swaps , or the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , fell 2 basis
point to 2.35 percent today, after reaching a four-month high of
2.38 percent in the past week. Five-year swaps dropped 1 basis
point, to 3.47 percent from the highest since April. That rate
is up from this year’s low of 2.68 percent on Aug. 12, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The People’s Bank of China raised its benchmark rate for
one- to three-year loans to 5.56 percent on Oct. 19 as part of
efforts to combat the fastest inflation in almost two years. The
central bank will raise the rate again by at least half a
percentage point before the end of 2011, according to more than
half of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg on Oct. 21.  China’s economy, which grew at 9.6 percent in the third-
quarter, will probably expand 10.5 percent this year, the
International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 6. U.S. gross domestic
product will increase 2.6 percent, down from a 3.3 percent
estimate three months ago, the Washington-based fund said.  Lenovo, Three Gorges  Lenovo’s five-year facility, which will be used to
refinance debt, will be put out for general syndication by early
next month, according to a person familiar with the matter who
asked not to be identified as details are private.  Jay Chen , a
spokesman for Lenovo, wasn’t immediately available for comment
yesterday when contacted by telephone at his office.  Lenovo, based in Beijing, has $630 million of loans
maturing by the end of 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In a revolving loan money that’s been repaid can be
borrowed again.  China Three Gorges Corp. received a credit line of 50
billion yuan and $4 billion from China Development Bank Corp.
until 2015 to fund its alternative energy projects and overseas
business, the company said in a statement on its website today.  Hidili Industry International Development Ltd. , the Chinese
coal mining company, plans to sell $400 million of five-year
bonds to yield around the 8.75 percent area, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Repatriating Funds  Approval to repatriate yuan funds to China is given on a
case-by-case basis, limiting the ability of many Chinese
companies to take advantage of cheaper funding in Hong Kong,
according to  Zhang Zhiming , head of China research at HSBC
Holdings Plc in Hong Kong.  “The companies have the incentive to go offshore but
whether they can take the money back is subject to approval,”
he said.  Yuan appreciation will benefit China Automation since the
company buys raw materials from suppliers using dollars,
according to Cui. Proceeds from the loan will help raise the
company’s stake in  Ning Xia Yin Xing Energy Co. , an industrial
valve-maker, to 80 percent from 25 percent, he said.  China Automation’s yuan funding will pay interest of 1.35
percentage points more than Hang Seng Bank Ltd.’s renminbi prime
rate of 3.25 percent, according to the company. Hang Seng is
leading banks arranging the loan, and about 17 lenders attended
a site visit in Beijing last week, Cui said.  Yuan-denominated syndicated loans fell to 69 billion yuan
this year from 177 billion yuan in all of 2009 and 72 billion
yuan in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hong Kong Loans  “Hong Kong is cheaper than the mainland because in the
mainland the loan interest rates are controlled,”  Allen Xu ,
head of loan syndication and project finance at Bank of China
Ltd., said in a phone interview from Beijing.  China’s banks extended 595.5 billion yuan of  new loans  last
month, according to the central bank. A record 9.59 trillion
yuan of new lending last year prompted regulators to impose a
7.5 trillion yuan annual limit on bank lending this year.  “We’re happy to see the development of renminbi business
in Hong Kong, and renminbi lending to corporate customers is now
allowed under the existing regime,” said an official at the
 Hong Kong Monetary Authority , who asked not to be identified
citing departmental policy.  Hong Kong banks can lend yuan without seeking approval from
the regulator, the official said in an e-mailed statement.  -- Henry Sanderson . With assistance from  Shelley Smith  and James
Regan in Hong Kong and  Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore. Editors:
 Hugh Chow ,  Will McSheehy   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  