-- Fear recedes as corporate profits reassure investors
-- By  Doris Frankel
-- Wed Apr 16, 2008 7:22pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/04/16/businesspro-vix-volatility-dc-idUSN1644713420080416

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - The Chicago Board Options Exchange 
Volatility Index .VIX or VIX on Wednesday dropped to its 
lowest levels this year as encouraging earnings from blue-chip 
stocks helped lift investors' spirits after a string of 
disappointments last week. 

  The VIX, Wall Street's main barometer for assessing 
investor anxiety, dropped 9.88 percent to 20.53, its lowest 
level since December 27, 2007, when the gauge closed at 20.26.  The VIX is viewed as a contrary indicator and generally 
runs inversely to the Standard & Poor's 500 index  .SPX .  The indicator, which measures near-term projected stock 
market volatility based on prices paid for S&P 500 options, 
sank after earnings from Intel Corp ( INTC.O ), JPMorgan Chase & 
Co ( JPM.N ) and other blue chips triggered a sharp rally in U.S. 
stocks.  The technology sector got another boost after IBM ( IBM.N ) 
posted stronger-than-expected quarterly results late in the 
session and raised its 2008 outlook.  "Positive surprises from bellwethers is a big reason why 
risk perceptions are falling," said independent options trader 
Frederic Ruffy.  The fact that earnings helped fuel Wednesday's rally was 
important in restoring some of the investor confidence that was 
lost during the first quarter of 2008, he said.  Herb Kurlan, chief executive of broker-dealer Vtrader Pro 
in San Francisco, echoed that view.  "Investors are feeling a bit more confident now that they 
have a handle on the credit crisis," he said.  Investors were also less inclined to buy options to manage 
their stock market risk.  The foundation was laid for future weakness in the VIX 
during Friday's stock market decline, said Bud Haslett, 
director of option analytics at Miller Tabak & Co in New York.  U.S. stocks slumped on that day after surprisingly weak 
earnings from General Electric Co ( GE.N ), which is viewed as an 
economic bellwether because of the range of its businesses.  The VIX closed at 23.46 on April 11, modestly up from a 
21.98 reading the previous session.  "It gave an indication that the upside in the VIX was 
limited and set the stage for lower VIX values as the market 
rose during this week," Haslett said.  (Reporting by Doris Frankel; Editing by  Diane Craft )