-- Banking Fix Made Easy With Six Simple Steps: Roger Lowenstein
-- Roger Lowenstein
-- 2009-11-17T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-11-16/banking-fix-made-easy-with-six-simple-steps-roger-lowenstein.html

          
          
             Financial reform seems to be
flailing. Legislation has been proposed, but it is complicated
and diffuse. Most of the proposed fixes are incremental changes
that don’t seem likely to prevent a future bubble.  
 The House and Senate are squabbling over which federal
agency should take the lead in supervising banks. The
administration, as well as the Congress, have fallen into the
trap of trying to fix everything. Instead, they should agree on
the most important remedies.  
 The crash exposed six serious problems:  
 No. 1: Mortgage regulation was too lax and in some cases
nonexistent.  
 No. 2: Capital requirements for banks were too low.  
 No. 3: Trading in derivatives such as credit default swaps
posed giant, unseen risks.  
 No. 4: Credit ratings on structured securities such as
collateralized-debt obligations were deeply flawed.  
 No. 5: Bankers were moved to take on risk by excessive pay
packages.  
 No. 6: The government’s response to the crash also created,
or exacerbated, moral hazard. Markets now expect that big banks
won’t be allowed to fail, weakening the incentives of investors
to discipline big banks and keep them from piling up too many
risky assets again. It’s time to end too big to fail by making
it less palatable for banks to remain big.  
 Pay Back  
 The first of these problems, mortgages, has already been
addressed by the Federal Reserve and other regulators. It is
much harder today to get a “liar” loan or a mortgage with no
money down. Congress should ensure that the reforms stick by
legislating a simple principle: mortgages should be approved
only on the basis of a borrower’s ability to service the loan,
not on the expectation that the loan will be refinanced.  
 There has also been a hint of progress on the second
problem -- capital requirements. The Group of 20 nations have
vowed to raise standards for banks when the world economy
recovers. The U.S. shouldn’t wait; Congress must insist on
higher standards now. Leverage is already down from pre-crash
levels, so regulation would ensure that banks won’t return to
their old, highly leveraged ways.  
 The Securities and Exchange Commission and bank regulators
should throw out model-based approaches that set leverage ratios
according to Monte Carlo-type formulas. These formulas treat
financial assets like random pegs that can’t all default at
once. (Memo from the recent crash: they can.)  
 Adult Supervision  
 The proposed legislation attacks the third issue by
requiring that some derivatives be traded on an exchange where,
presumably, they would receive adult supervision. Critics are
unhappy because many derivatives still could be traded in
customized, private arrangements.  
 But the issue of where derivatives are traded is secondary.
 American International Group Inc .’s credit default swaps could
have been struck on the moon and it still would have needed a
bailout. It got into trouble because it had to post tens of
billions of dollars in extra collateral as its positions went
sour. Thus, the relevant question is the amount of collateral
supporting each trade.  
 David Moss , a regulatory expert at Harvard Business School,
has suggested an ingenious solution. Exchanges should require
traders to post significant collateral, and Congress should
mandate that, for derivatives traded in back alleyways or
elsewhere, traders adhere to the highest collateral minimums set
on the exchange.  
 Don’t Rate  
 As for No. 4, Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings
fed the mortgage bubble with unconscionably permissive ratings
on mortgage-backed securities. The ratings companies were paid
by the Wall Street firms who put the deals together and needed
the ratings to market their products.  
 At the very least, the U.S. should stop endorsing this
conflict-ridden arrangement. The SEC designates certain
companies as “nationally recognized,” and its stamp of
approval qualifies the firm for many lines of business. Congress
should mandate that only rating companies paid by disinterested
parties can qualify for official status.  
 The fifth issue, inflated compensation, is endemic to all
industries, not just financial firms. But it encouraged
excessive risk-taking, and thus high leverage, on Wall Street.  
 The government is trying to restrain compensation in
various ways, such as rulings from the pay czar and Fed
guidelines for banks.  
 They’re Back  
 They aren’t working -- witness the return of big bonuses on
Wall Street. Moreover, the new fixes suffer from micro-
management. We don’t want bureaucrats sifting through every
paycheck.  
 A simpler fix would be to require shareholder approval for
outsized pay packages, say $5 million and up. Many banks would
pay just under the threshold to avoid a vote. Investment bankers
might discover that life can be acceptable on $4,999,999 a year.
And for those who get shareholders to approve a greater swag,
that’s the free market at work.  
 Last, in 2008, when regulators bailed out Bear Stearns,
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, they insisted they weren’t setting a
precedent for future rescues. Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said
addressing the problem of too big to fail should be a “top
priority.” In a perfect world, all banks would be allowed to
fail.  
 Secrets Kept  
 We know from recent experience they aren’t. Endowing them
with a privileged position promotes reckless behavior.  
 The government, instead, should make it undesirable for
banks to be within the circle of protection. It could do this by
charging big financial institutions hefty insurance premiums and
by further raising their capital standard. This would encourage
them to shrink to a size where failure didn’t pose a threat.  
 As bad as the financial crisis was, we don’t need the
government running Wall Street from the inside, nor do we need
new federal agencies or bureaucracies. We need a few carefully
chosen rules to reassert proper incentives and proper limits.  
 ( Roger Lowenstein , author of “When Genius Failed,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the author of this column:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        