-- Lehman May Sell Archstone Apartment Assets to Affiliates, Court Papers Say
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-09-22T23:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-05-25/lehman-wins-bankruptcy-court-approval-for-archstone-restructuring-deal.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  may
sell its largest real-estate asset, the apartment-complex owner
Archstone it acquired in a $22 billion leveraged buyout, to two
affiliates for “yet undefined consideration,” according to a
court filing by  Gerard Uzzi , a lawyer for Lehman creditors.  The two affiliates are Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and
Luxco, or Luxembourg Residential Properties Loan Finance
S.a.r.l, according to a Sept. 20 filing by Uzzi, who represents
a group of creditors of the defunct Lehman, including hedge fund
Paulson & Co.  Archstone, which has required two bailouts from its bankers
in the last two years amid the real-estate slump, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments from Washington
and New York to Los Angeles and San Francisco.  The deal might represent “the most valuable give-up” by
the Lehman holding company to its affiliates, Uzzi said in a
footnote to a filing protesting another deal involving Lehman,
LCPI and Luxco. Lehman currently is trying to untangle numerous
claims and obligations with its bankrupt and non-bankrupt
affiliates.  Details of the Archstone transaction weren’t given in the
court filing. Uzzi didn’t return calls and e-mails seeking
comment.  The sale referred to by the creditors is related to the two
affiliates’ earlier aid for the bailout of two Lehman banks.  “Certain pieces” of an Archstone loan that had been
pledged to the banks will be returned to the Lehman affiliates,
Jeff Fitts, co-head of LBHI’s real estate group, said in an e-
mailed statement.  “These pledges effectively go away. Ownership of debt
tranches will not move,” he said.  Restructuring Agreement  Lehman, which is liquidating in bankruptcy over five years,
won court approval in May for a second attempt to salvage its
investment in Archstone. The restructuring agreement approved by
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James Peck  in Manhattan allowed Lehman to
join Barclays Plc and  Bank of America Corp.  in converting $5.2
billion in Archstone loans to preferred equity, according to
court documents that put Lehman’s share of the conversion at
$2.4 billion of secured Archstone debt.  Last year, Lehman, Barclays and Bank of America committed
$485 million in additional financing to Archstone.  Lehman and Tishman Speyer Properties took the former
Archstone Smith private in October 2007. Lehman in May held 47
percent of the controlling stock in Archstone, according to
court papers.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .
 David McLaughlin  in U.S. bankruptcy court in Manhattan at +1-
   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  