-- UPDATE 5-Ryanair Q2 profit jumps, raises winter outlook
-- 
-- Mon Nov 6, 2006 7:35am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/06/airlines-ryanair-idUSL0627557720061106

 

  (Adds CEO on Aer Lingus, return of capital in paragraphs 9-13) 

  By  Paul Hoskins  and  Jodie Ginsberg DUBLIN  Nov 6 (Reuters) - Ryanair ( RYA.I ) posted a
stronger-than-expected jump in second-quarter profit on Monday
and raised its full-year forecast on a rosier winter outlook,
pushing its shares to a record high.  Europe's biggest budget airline said it now expected profit
after tax for the year to the end of March 2007 to rise 16
percent to 350 million euros ($445 million) compared with
previous guidance of an 11 percent rise to 335 million euros.  "They're very strong results and clearly the outlook is
significantly enhanced," said John Sheehan, analyst at NCB
Stockbrokers. "Despite high fuel costs they're on track for a
strong second half and the results should be well received."  Net profit was 213.4 million euros in the three months to
end-September, up 23.7 percent on the same period last year and
above the average 210 million euros of six analysts' forecasts.  The Dublin-based company now expects average fares to rise 2
to 3 percent in the third quarter against an earlier forecast
for a 5 percent decline. For the second half as a whole, yields
are seen flat.  Its shares were up 3.7 percent at 9.29 euros in Dublin by
1208 GMT, outperforming a 0.5 percent rise in the Irish SE Index
 .ISEQ , after earlier rising to a new life high of 9.35 euros.  Chief Financial Officer Howard Millar told Reuters in a
telephone interview he was upbeat about the company's 2007/2008
business year. "We have lots of plans for next year and we'd be
very confident for the summer," he said.  
  AER LINGUS  On Ryanair's hostile bid for fellow Irish carrier Aer Lingus
( AERL.I ), Millar said he expected Ryanair to extend the offer
period beyond next week's deadline after a staff trust launched
a ballot on the offer that runs until late November.  Chief Executive Michael O'Leary later told reporters in
London he expected members of the trust to reject the offer and
therefore for the bid to fail. He would not be drawn on whether
Ryanair would increase its offer.  Ryanair, whose bid values Aer Lingus at 1.48 billion euros,
has said it would remain a long term investor in its rival if
the bid failed. It holds 19.2 percent already.  "If we don't make it, well then we can continue to be a
minority stakeholder and we can hold our position and in a
year's time we can make another bid if we so wish," Millar said
in a radio interview with Irish broadcaster RTE.  O'Leary said Ryanair planned to return some of its cash pile
to investors by the end of 2007 either with a special dividend
or share buyback, regardless of whether the offer succeeds.  "I would be very reluctant to commit to a very boring annual
dividend policy in an industry which is very cyclical and
volatile," added O'Leary, whose company has said it has cash
resources of 2 billion euros to fund its Aer Lingus bid.  
  FUEL HEDGING  Revenues rose 27.4 percent to 689.8 million euros in the
second quarter -- above the 676.8 million euros expected by
analysts.   Ryanair plans to seek shareholder approval in December for
a two-for-one share split to improve the marketability and
liquidity of its stock, particularly in the United States where
its depositary receipts are trading at over $60.  "It has a more appealing look about it when the share price
is $25 to $30," Millar said.  Ryanair has again extended its fuel hedging, having already
insured 90 percent of its needs against price rises for the
remainder of 2006 at an equivalent oil price of $73 a barrel.  "We have used the recent weakness in forward oil prices to
hedge 50 percent of our requirements for the quarter from
October to December 2007 at a cost which is 10 percent lower
than comparable Q3 this year," Ryanair said.  Goodbody stockbrokers analyst Joe Gill said he expected to
raise his earnings forecasts for this year and next.  "Together with the planned reduction in ex-fuel unit costs
next year, it (fuel hedging) provides a powerful platform for
price competition and market share expansion."  Revenues from sources other than ticket sales, such as car
hire and in-flight services, rose to 87.7 million euros in the
quarter from 71 million in the same period last year.  Ryanair said online hotel provider Need a Hotel had ended
its partnership with the airline following a change of ownership
but the move was not expected to effect earnings this year.
 (Additional reporting by  Michael Smith  in London)



