-- UPDATE 6-Dutch retailer Ahold to sell U.S. Foodservice
-- 
-- Mon Nov 6, 2006 1:25pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/06/retail-ahold-idUSL0631085620061106

 

  (Adds source on Centaurus in paragraph 8) 

  By  Foo Yun Chee  and  Reed Stevenson AMSTERDAM  Nov 6 (Reuters) - Dutch food retailer Ahold
( AHLN.AS ) bowed to shareholder pressure on Monday and said it
would sell its U.S. Foodservice business, slash debt and costs
as it pulls free of an accounting scandal.  Ahold, the owner of U.S. supermarkets including Stop & Shop,
said it would return some 2 billion euros ($2.5 billion) to
shareholders and cut its debt by the same amount as it announced
an overhaul aimed at boosting profitability.  In line with expectations, Ahold said it would sell U.S.
Foodservice, the unit at the centre of a nearly 1 billion euro
accounting scandal, as well as its U.S. Tops retail chain and
operations in Poland and Slovakia.  The world's fourth-largest retailer said it would cut
operating costs by 500 million euros by the end of 2009 and sell
its 49 percent stake in Portugal's Jeronimo Martins Retail.  "Since the crisis in 2003, we have completed a comprehensive
revitalisation programme," Ahold President and Chief Executive
Anders Moberg said in a statement.  "It is now time for us to focus our efforts on strengthening
our retail competitive position, particularly in the United
States."  Ahold's review follows fierce pressure to sell its U.S.
Foodservice unit -- valued at as much as 5.2 billion euros by
analysts and estimated to have a book value of about 4 billion
euros by the retailer -- from activist hedge funds Centaurus
Capital and Paulson & Co., owners of 6.4 percent of the group.  A source familiar with the matter said Centaurus considers
Monday's announcements "a step in the right direction" but now
needed to study the proposals and speak to Ahold's management
before reaching a firm position.  Analysts said the asset sales could raise some 4.5 billion
euros.  Moberg said Ahold would make acquisitions to expand the
business but declined to comment on expectations the asset sales
could pave the way for a merger with Belgian supermarket chain
Delhaize DELBt.BR.  "We are always looking into opportunities which are
interesting to us as a company that can create value ... We will
keep our eyes open," he told a press conference when asked about
a tie-up with Delhaize.  
  ALL OPTIONS OPEN  Petercam analyst Fernand de Boer did not rule out a merger.  "In our view the review still leaves all options open for a
further break-up, a full takeover or merger with Delhaize," he
said in a note.  Ahold shares ended 0.1 percent higherat 8.36 euros, after
having hit a 45-month high earlier at 8.65 euros. The DJ Stoxx
retail index was 0.4 percent firmer. Delhaize shares were 0.2
percent lower at 64.15 euros.  The cost of insuring Ahold debt against default fell nearly
20 percent and its bonds rose. At the end of the first half,
Ahold said its debt stood at 5.2 billion euros.  Moberg, who launched the review this year after admitting
fierce rivalry from Kroger Co. ( KR.N ) and Safeway Inc. ( SWY.N )
in the United States, reaffirmed a target of retail net sales
growth of five percent and retail operating margin growth of
five percent.  Analysts said the sales were in line with expectations.  "We are positive about Ahold reaffirming its retail targets.
On the negative side, we are disappointed about the fact that
Ahold intends to return only 2 billion euros to shareholders
after the divestments," Kempen & Co analyst Erwin Dut said.  Moberg said Ahold had not discussed potential buyers for its
U.S. Foodservice unit but there was "lots of interest out
there".  Private equity firms Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts and Cerberus Capital Management are interested in
U.S. Foodservice, a person familiar with the matter said last
week.  Ahold's sale of U.S. Foodservice could spur consolidation in
the U.S. northeast supermarket industry, Goldman Sachs wrote in
a note.  Analysts said selling off assets, especially U.S.
Foodservice, followed by a debt buyback, could help Ahold to
regain an investment-grade credit rating.  The U.S. Foodservice business, which sells catering
supplies, had 14.87 billion euros ($19 billion) in 2005 sales,
one-third of the group's revenues, but has few synergies with
Ahold's core food retail business.







