-- Sun Microsystems turns profit after 5 qtrs in red
-- By  Duncan Martell
-- Tue Jan 23, 2007 9:46pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/24/businesspro-sunmicrosystems-results-dc-idUSWEN259720070124

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - Sun Microsystems Inc. on Tuesday 
posted a surprise profit -- after five quarters of losses -- 
and said Kohlberg Kravis Roberts would make a $700 million 
investment in Sun debt, sending its shares up 8 percent. 

  The quarterly results and Sun's SUNW.O revenue forecast 
were both better than expected.  Sun said 7 percent revenue growth in the just-completed 
quarter was due to better sales of servers using its Sparc 
chips, servers using Intel-compatible chips, and the acceptance 
of its Solaris 10 operating system. Since Sun made Solaris 
freely available, more than 7 million copies of it have been 
downloaded, Chief Executive Jonathan Schwartz said on Monday.  Sun said on Tuesday that KKR Private Equity Investors 
KKR.AS, the public fund of private equity firm Kohlberg 
Kravis Roberts & Co. KKR.UL, will get a seat on Sun's board 
in exchange for its $700 million convertible debt investment.  "The company had a very good quarter with the return to 
profitability," said Pacific Crest Securities analyst Brent 
Bracelin. "Clearly there is momentum with the new product 
upgrades."  Sun posted a fiscal second-quarter net profit of $126 
million, or 3 cents per share, compared with a net loss of 
$223.0 million, or 7 cents per share, a year ago. Revenue rose 
to $3.57 billion from $3.34 billion.  Analysts expected Sun to report earnings of nil per share, 
on average, on revenue of $3.52 billion, according to Reuters 
Estimates.  "What I see here that is encouraging is 14 percent 
year-over-year growth in their computer systems, which is 
decent, good, strong," said Martin Reynolds, an analyst and 
managing vice president at Gartner.  Earnings per share were 4 cents, excluding restructuring 
charges but including stock-based compensation expenses, which 
beat the consensus of break-even, according to Reuters 
Estimates.
  KKR DEAL "OPPORTUNISTIC" FOR SUN  KKR's investment will buy $350 million in convertible 
senior notes due in 2012 and $350 million in convertible senior 
notes due in 2014. Schwartz in a conference call called the 
deal "opportunistic" for Sun, which ended the quarter with $4.8 
billion in cash and short-term investments.  "The KKR investments are interesting, but it's unclear what 
it plans to do with the money," Pacific Crest's Bracelin said. 
"It's causing all sorts of speculation out there."  Schwartz said in an interview that if KKR opted to convert 
the notes into equity, it would hold less than 5 percent of 
Sun's shares outstanding.  Sun Chief Financial Officer Michael Lehman forecast revenue 
in its current quarter to decline 3 percent to 5 percent from 
last quarter, in line with historical seasonal norms.  That forecast implies revenue in the current quarter of 
$3.39 billion to $3.46 billion, compared with analysts' 
expectations for revenue of $3.32 billion.  Lehman also said on a conference call that the company was 
on track to achieve its goal of at least a 4 percent operating 
profit margin when it exits the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007.  Many Wall Street analysts, including Deutsche Bank's Chris 
Whitmore, have said Sun's software is key to its financial 
turnaround and return to profit growth.  Shares of Sun rose 29 percent in 2006, compared with an 11 
percent increase in the Merrill Lynch Technology 100 Index, of 
which Sun is a member, in the same time period.  Shares of Sun jumped to $6.13 in extended trade on the 
results and KKR investment. In regular trade, the stock fell 9 
cents, or 1.6 percent, to close at $5.66.