-- Williams-Sonoma denies it has hired Goldman
-- By  Michael Flaherty  and  Jessica Hall
-- Tue Jan 23, 2007 9:13pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/24/businesspro-williamssonoma-takeover-dc-idUSN2332115120070124

 

 NEW YORK/PHILADELPHIA  (Reuters) - Williams-Sonoma Inc. 
( WSM.N ), the owner of kitchenware stores and the Pottery Barn 
home decor retail chain, denied on Tuesday it has hired Goldman 
Sachs ( GS.N ) or any other investment bank to explore strategic 
options, calling it an "absolutely incorrect" rumor. 

  Williams-Sonoma said in a statement it generally does not 
comment on market speculation. But the San Francisco-based 
company said it was compelled to do so because "this rumor is 
absolutely incorrect."  "Williams-Sonoma has not retained any firm to explore 
strategic options," said company spokeswoman Patricia Sellman 
in a telephone call from San Francisco.  Sources told Reuters earlier on Tuesday Williams-Sonoma's 
options could include the sale of the company.  Goldman declined to comment.  Williams-Sonoma's contact with Goldman was said to be in 
its early stages and the sources were not aware of any buyers 
at the doorstep yet. But the sources said the company was 
expected to attract the interest of private equity firms drawn 
to its popular brand, cash flow and prime real estate.  Private equity firms buy companies using a small portion of 
their own cash and borrow the rest. They sell the companies 
later either to other buyers or on the open market in a public 
offering. Buyout firms seek strong cash flows in their targets 
because they need the cash to pay down debt borrowed for their 
deals.  Williams-Sonoma, which has a market capitalization of about 
$4.0 billion, has faced competition in its Pottery Barn chain 
as cheaper retailers like Target Corp. ( TGT.N ) and Wal-Mart 
Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ) offer similar merchandise at lower prices.  The company faces pressure from the slowing housing market, 
which has dampened consumer demand for high-ticket items like 
furniture. It also endured a difficult and price-competitive 
holiday shopping season.  Williams-Sonoma, which operates 582 stores, has been trying 
to revitalize its Pottery Barn chain. The company, founded in 
1956, also owns the Pottery Barn Kids, PBTeen, and West Elm 
brands.  Earlier this month, Williams-Sonoma gave a "cautious" 
outlook for 2007, citing competitive pressure and the 
"home-related macroeconomic environment."  The company's stock has fallen 15 percent in the past 12 
months. Shares of Williams-Sonoma closed on Tuesday at $34.11 
on the New York Stock Exchange.  Still, shares of Williams-Sonoma trade at about 19 times 
earnings, which outpaces the sector average of 17.5.  Several retailers have hired Goldman to explore options 
recently, hoping to take advantage of hungry private equity 
buyers and cheap capital sloshing around in the market.  Claire's Stores Inc. CLE.N, a costume jewelry and 
accessories retailer, said in December that it hired Goldman to 
explore its options. And Jones Apparel ( JNY.N ) is looking for 
Goldman to help sell off certain units after failing to find a 
buyer for the whole company, media reports have said.