-- `Galleon' Case Defense Gets Trial Run in Unrelated Prosecution
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-09-28T14:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/-galleon-case-defense-gets-trial-run-in-unrelated-prosecution.html
The U.S. government rested its case
today in a prosecution that may provide a preview of next year’s
trial of Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , accused of
helping direct the largest-ever hedge fund insider trading scam.  The week-long trial of  Joseph Contorinis , 46, a former
general partner of the  Jefferies Paragon Fund , has yielded
testimony by an ex- UBS AG  investment banker that he was fed
secret tips by a former managing director at Blackstone Group
LP, and that he leaked information on mergers to an analyst at
SAC Capital Advisors LP.  The trial, though unrelated to the Galleon case, may show
how Rajaratnam’s defense, that he traded based on public
information and press reports, will resonate with a federal jury
in Manhattan. Contorinis has made a similar argument in pleading
not guilty in his case, which is being prosecuted by Assistant
U.S. Attorneys  Andrew Fish  and  Reed Brodsky  -- both also
involved in  Galleon  case.  “It’s an opportunity for the defendants in Rajaratnam to
see how the defense plays before a jury,”  Jacob Frenkel , a
former Securities and Exchange Commission attorney, said in an
interview. Frenkel, a partner at Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy &
Ecker PA in Potomac, Maryland, isn’t involved in either case.  Contorinis, who lives in Brooklyn, is accused of earning
more than $7 million and avoiding losses of millions more by
trading on tips from the government’s chief witness,  Nicos Stephanou . An associate director of mergers and acquisitions at
Zurich-based UBS, Stephanou told him about transactions from
2004 to 2006, prosecutors said. The trial began Sept. 20.  Pleaded Guilty  Stephanou, 36, has pleaded guilty and is testifying in
exchange for leniency. He said last week that he routinely told
friends from New York and his native Cyprus about companies that
were to be acquired. Some trades were executed through offshore
accounts he set up, and Stephanou and his friends split the
profits, he said.  “He was a close personal friend of mine and I was happy to
help him,” Stephanou said of Contorinis.  The 2006 acquisition of Albertsons Inc., then the second-
largest U.S. grocer, is at the center of the case. At the time,
Contorinis’s hedge fund held more than $70 million in Albertsons
stock, prosecutors said. Stephanou was on the UBS team that
advised Cerberus Capital Management LP, part of the group trying
to buy the grocery chain.  Sushi at Masa  As the deal was being negotiated in December 2005,
Stephanou said he alerted Contorinis and other friends to the
progress of the talks. Contorinis sold all his Albertsons stock
before news that the talks collapsed became public, prosecutors
said.  After negotiations resumed, and a group that included
Cerberus and  Supervalu Inc.  agreed to buy Albertsons in January
2006, Stephanou testified that he again leaked the news to
Contorinis, who immediately bought $45 million in shares.  Days later, Contorinis footed the bill as the two
celebrated over sushi at Masa, a restaurant in Manhattan’s Time
Warner Center, according to court testimony.  “It was the most, you know, exquisite dinner, sushi dinner
I’ve ever had,” Stephanou testified, as prosecutors showed
jurors the menu from his $1,000 meal. “I had asked them to send
it to me so I’d have it as a reference, as memorabilia,”
Stephanou said of the menu.  Stephanou said Contorinis told him how to disguise his
insider trading by “trading in and out” of a stock. “He told
me not to be greedy,” Stephanou said.  Newspaper Reports  In an opening statement on Sept. 21, lawyers for Contorinis
told jurors that his trades were based on newspaper reports and
that his rapid buying and selling of Albertsons shares over many
months belies the government’s claim that he was trading on
inside information. During the trial, defense attorney  Theodore Wells  assailed Stephanou as a liar who traded on inside tips for
more than a decade and deceived prosecutors and family members.  “Your resume says nothing about how you had deceived
people for years, correct?” Wells asked Stephanou on cross-
examination.  “I didn’t tell people that I was doing inside trading,”
Stephanou replied. “I was ashamed and embarrassed to have
criminal activities linked to my name.”  In Rajaratnam’s case, scheduled for trial in January, his
lawyers similarly have argued that his trades were based on
media reports and research, and that his rapid buying and
selling of shares over long periods undermines the government’s
allegations. Rajaratnam, 53, also has attacked the prosecution’s
star witness as a liar.  Jim McCarthy, a spokesman for Rajaratnam, declined to
comment.  ‘Confidential Information’  In the Contorinis case, Stephanou also named five other
friends to whom he “provided confidential information,”
including  Jonathan Hollander . Hollander had worked as an analyst
at SAC Capital, the hedge-fund firm run by  Steven Cohen ,
 Jonathan Gasthalter , a spokesman for SAC Capital, said in
January. Hollander last year was identified as “Tippee 1” in a
lawsuit filed by the SEC.  “He is a friend of mine from New York,” Stephanou said of
Hollander, who hasn’t been sued by the regulator or charged with
criminal wrongdoing.  Hollander’s lawyer,  Aitan Goelman , declined to comment.
Gasthalter, who declined to comment yesterday, said in January
that, “SAC thoroughly investigated this former employee’s
trading in Albertsons and, on its own initiative, presented the
findings to government authorities in February 2009.”  Another Source  At the trial, Stephanou testified that he passed along tips
about Albertsons learned at UBS. He also had another source of
information, according to court records.  On Aug. 27, Contorinis’s lawyers filed court papers saying
prosecutors wanted to offer evidence that Stephanou got leaks
from  Ramesh Chakrapani , a managing director at New York-based
 Blackstone , the world’s largest private-equity firm, which
advised Albertsons.  Prosecutors claim “that Stephanou obtained information
from Mr. Chakrapani that Mr. Chakrapani in turn misappropriated
from his own employer (Blackstone),” the defense lawyers wrote
in court papers. They asked the judge to bar prosecutors from
presenting that evidence. Stephanou testified at the trial that
he told Contorinis about information he claimed to have received
from Chakrapani.  “I told him that my information was coming from the deal
team members at UBS and from Ramesh,” he said.  Peter Rose , a
spokesman for Blackstone, declined to comment.  Dismissed Charges  Chakrapani’s lawyer,  Michael Sommer , didn’t return calls
seeking comment. Prosecutors and the SEC dismissed civil
allegations and criminal charges against Chakrapani following
his January 2009 arrest.  Stephanou testified that, after his own arrest, he agreed
to make secret tape recordings of Contorinis, Chakrapani and
other friends. Defense attorneys told jurors that Contorinis,
taped while on vacation in South America, didn’t mention
Albertsons, while others did.  One of Stephanou’s friends, Michael Koulouroudis, was
sentenced to three months in prison in April after admitting
that he traded on tips from Stephanou, according to court
papers.  The case is U.S. v. Contorinis, 09-cr-1083, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in U.S. District Court in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 