-- ‘Das Rheingold’ Glitters as Met Unveils 45 Ton Set: Review
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2010-09-28T06:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/-rheingold-casts-a-spell-as-met-unveils-45-ton-set-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
The prospect of a new “Ring” at
the  Metropolitan Opera  has sent opera nuts into a state of
hyper-excitement for months on end.  This may be the first production in opera history
generating a stream of bulletins on the weight of the set.  Yes, the set, not the soprano.  For this unusual obsession, we thank Canadian director
 Robert Lepage . The multimedia wizard, best-known for his Cirque
du Soleil extravaganzas, was hired to give  Wagner’s  four-opera
epic (full title: “Der Ring des Nibelungen”), a new dimension
of edgy fabulousness.  Weighing in at 45 tons, the set was finally unveiled last
night as patrons squeezed into the theater, paying as much as
$5,500 a seat (this did include a champagne dinner ending with
‘Smores) for “Das Rheingold.”  More frugal brothers and sisters braved the drizzle and
settled into free seats in front of the Met and down a few
blocks at Times Square for a live transmission.  With gold at record heights and Gordon Gekko back at the
trough, what could be more entertaining than this story of
boundless ambition and greed in the pursuit of power and wealth
-- including the acquisition of one large and unaffordable
mansion called Valhalla.  Auf Wiedersehen  Rejected by the three Rhinemaidens, gnome Alberich, the
Nibelung of the title, steals their gold, setting in motion
events that will culminate, almost 17 hours later, in
“Goetterdaemmerung,” when Valhalla is destroyed as the world
burns to a crisp.  The Met’s retired production, first seen in 1986, reflected
Wagner’s stage directions to the last musty leaf and painted
boulder. It looked as if Bruennhilde had galloped into a diorama
of the wildebeest at the  American Museum of Natural History .  The old-fashioned production made the Met a magnet for
battered Wagnerian world wanderers seeking to escape concept
productions by avant-garde directors in chic operatic enclaves
of Europe where it’s verboten to stage Wagner without
referencing the Fuhrer, who was such a fan.  Lepage’s “Ring” is abstract, weighty and costly, though
we await a truth-telling Norn to reveal the actual budget. The
Met has suggested something in the range of $16 million for the
production. Another $4.5 million was spent replacing the wagons
that roll sets to the footlights. Reinforcing the main stage to
support the set cost $100,000.  I guess no one thought of suggesting plastic to Lepage or
set designer Carl Fillion.  Flying Maidens  The thing is so heavy it slumbers on its own wagon on a
side stage between shows. Normally, stage hands pack sets into
trucks.  When rolled out in front of the prompter’s box, it takes on
a life of its own, albeit slowly and sometimes sullenly. The
computer programmers supervising the thing must have sweated
bullets all night long.  In the front, is a strip where the singers take their
place. Behind that, a trough, which facilitates magic tricks and
at one point turns into a garbage chute when the gnome needs to
disappear. Beyond that, is the shape-changing thing, whose
elements fold and open into all kinds of unusual forms:
battlements, a wing, a sheltering keyboard.  The most startling effect came right at the start, when the
Rhine, after hesitating, flowed into view.  As those somber E flat chords drifted up from the pit, the
set began to move, undulating like a wave. Then the Rhinemaiden
trio floated up, attached to cables and harnesses, blowing
bubbles as they dangled 30 feet above the stage.  Scary Serpent  It was spellbinding. So was the visit to Nibelheim, where
Alberich turns himself into a serpent. As the gnome disappeared
into the trough, an amusingly horrible skeletal head stuck out
its tongue from one side of the stage, while lashing the
opposite side with its tail. Doubles for Wotan and Loge pick
their way up a scary staircase.  The real Wotan ( Bryn Terfel ) tended to hover near the
prompt box with wife Fricka (Stephanie Blythe). Both sang
magnificently, though Lepage doesn’t provide much space for
conflict and drama.  Wotan’s family shuttles along a narrow platform, though
Loge, god of fire, gets to walk backward up an incline.  Everyone sang exceedingly well, urged on to ever greater
glory by  James Levine , celebrating 40 years at the Met. He
didn’t conduct like someone who has recently endured back
surgery and serious ailments. Perhaps he has access to Freia’s
magic apples?  Eric Owens  The keeper of the rejuvenating fruit was brightly sung by
Wendy Bryn Harmer. Richard Croft was charming as Loge, god of
fire. Adam Diegel brought a first-rate tenor and paisley skirt
to the effete Froh. The giants, Franz-Josef Selig and Hans-Peter
Koenig, rumbled impressively. Gerhard Siegel was an especially
vivid Mime. Eric Owens, now one of the greatest bass-baritones
in the world, was sublime as crazy Alberich.  Still, as time went on, I was thankful the set was so
active, since it did get boring watching the singers walk on and
off. Then the set let me down.  What happened to the rainbow bridge? You know, the rainbow
bridge which spans the valley and brings the gods to Valhalla?
Wotan and his family just stood around staring at a multicolored
airstrip. Did one of the elves working the computers keel over?  But by then a spell had been cast by Lepage and his team.
“Rheingold” is just the beginning of a long journey.  Some in the audience did not seem pleased by the prospect,
judging by the curtain calls. While deafening cheers greeted the
cast and Levine, Lepage’s reception was mixed with boos.  “Das Rheingold” continues in repertory at the
Metropolitan Opera, New York, through April 2, 2011.
Information:  http://www.metopera.org .  ( Manuela Hoelterhoff  is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Manuela Hoelterhoff  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net . 