-- Ackman Venture Loses Bid to Stop Foreclosure of New York's Stuyvesant Town
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-09-28T20:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/ackman-venture-loses-bid-to-stop-foreclosure-of-new-york-s-stuyvesant-town.html
Pershing Square Capital Management
LP and  Winthrop Realty Trust  lost their bid to halt a planned
foreclosure  sale  next week of the Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper
Village apartment complex in Manhattan.  A New York state appeals court rejected a request by
Pershing and Winthrop for a stay of the Oct. 4 foreclosure
planned by the property’s senior debt holders. The court didn’t
give a reason for its ruling in its one-page order today.  Although the foreclosure can go forward, Pershing and
Winthrop will continue to pursue their appeal of a lower court
ruling blocking their effort to take control of the 11,000-unit
apartment complex, said  Edward Weisfelner , an attorney for
Pershing and Winthrop, in a phone interview today.  “The senior lenders are going to be exposed to whatever
damages we suffer,” he said. “We still remain convinced we
will prevail on appeal.”  Greg Cross, an attorney for CWCapital Asset Management LLC,
the special servicer for the senior mortgage on the property,
said in a phone interview that the ruling “reaffirmed” a
lower-court decision preventing Pershing and Winthrop from
proceeding with their own foreclosure.  “We’re moving forward with our foreclosure on the
fourth,” Cross said.  Pershing and Winthrop, both junior debt holders, asked the
appeals court to stop the foreclosure by senior lenders. The
move came after a lower-court judge issued a preliminary
injunction on Sept. 16 blocking Pershing and Winthrop from
foreclosing on the property unless they first paid senior
creditors the $3.67 billion that they are owed.  ‘Complete Loss’  Pershing and Winthrop said in court papers they would
suffer “a complete loss” of their investment if the appeals
court didn’t stay the foreclosure by senior lenders while their
appeal is considered.  Tishman Speyer Properties LP and BlackRock Inc. bought
Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village, Manhattan’s biggest
apartment complex, for $5.4 billion in 2006, a record New York
commercial real estate deal at the time. They stopped payments
on the mortgage loan in January after the development’s value
sank and rents didn’t rise as fast as anticipated.  In June, a federal judge in New York approved a foreclosure
of the property by senior lenders.  Senior creditors sued Pershing and Winthrop in New York
state court in August, arguing an agreement between the two
groups of creditors prohibited Pershing and Winthrop from taking
control of the property by foreclosing on the entities that own
it.  Pershing and Winthrop disagree, arguing they have the right
to foreclose on their collateral, which is separate from the
lenders’ collateral. Pershing and Winthrop’s investment is
backed by equity interests in the borrowers of the mortgage.
Senior lenders are secured by the actual property.  The case is Bank of America NA v. PSW NYC LLC, 10-651293,
New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First
Department (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .. 