-- Taiwan Central Bank Will Weigh Interest Rate Increase as Home Prices Climb
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   J a y   W a n g
-- 2010-09-29T06:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/taiwan-central-bank-to-weigh-interest-rate-increase-as-home-prices-advance.html
Taiwan’s central bank may discuss
raising its benchmark interest rate tomorrow for the second time
this year after the island’s economic recovery and the threat of
a property bubble added to the case for higher borrowing costs.  Governor  Perng Fai-nan  will increase the benchmark by 0.125
percentage point to 1.5 percent after the policy board meets,
according to 11 of 14 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.
Three expect no change following June’s advance from a record-
low 1.25 percent. The decision is due after 3 p.m. in Taipei.  Taiwan’s economy  expanded  at the fastest pace in more than
30 years in the first half, helping to boost home prices. The
central bank may increase borrowing costs on concern the
property gains signal speculation, rather than join counterparts
from South Korea to Australia in pausing rate advances to assess
the strength of the world recovery.  “The economy in the third quarter continues to expand from
the strong second quarter, and that will lend support for the
central bank to keep its tightening cycle,” said  Alan Liao , an
economist at Chinatrust Commercial Bank in Taipei. Housing
prices remain “high,” he said.  The benchmark Taiex stock index climbed 0.6 percent to
close at 8,240.89 in Taipei today. The Taiwan dollar rose 0.4
percent to NT$31.292 against its U.S. counterpart as of 2:38
p.m., having surrendered gains yesterday on signs the central
bank intervened to check appreciation that may hurt exports.  Bond Yield  The yield on the 2 percent bond maturing July 2015 climbed
0.8 basis point to 0.885 percent as of 1:30 p.m., the first
increase in three days, according to Gretai Securities Market,
Taiwan’s biggest exchange for bonds. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. The overnight interbank rate climbed to the
highest since March last year.  The central bank introduced mortgage restrictions in June
as well as raising the discount rate on 10-day loans to banks to
1.375 percent. The steps included a 70 percent cap on loans for
second homes in the Taipei metropolitan area.  Perng subsequently wrote to the chairmen of the island’s
financial institutions in July to ask them to help prevent
housing speculation, after complaints from citizens that homes
were becoming unaffordable.  The ratio of Taipei’s average existing-home prices relative
to annual disposable incomes climbed to the highest in two
decades in August, Sinyi Realty Co., Taiwan’s biggest property
broker, said last month.  Property Prices  “Record-low borrowing costs turned many savers to the
housing market,” Lee Jain-ming, a researcher at Sinyi, said in
a telephone interview on Sept. 27. Property prices in the
capital are set to rise for the seventh year in 2010, Lee said.  The central bank may limit mortgages to no more than 60
percent of a property’s value and stipulate interest rates of at
least 2 percent, the China Times reported two days ago without
saying where it got the information. It may also move to tighten
rules governing loans to land developers, the report said.  The island’s economy expanded by 13.1 percent in the first
half, recovering from its deepest recession on record in 2009.  Reviving demand for computers and semiconductors in major
export markets including China boosted earnings at companies
such as  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , the world’s
largest custom manufacturer of chips.  Taiwan’s  industrial production  growth accelerated to 23.4
percent in August, gaining for a 12th straight month. Exports
advanced for a 10th consecutive month, while the jobless rate
fell to a 20-month low of 5.11 percent.  Still, economic growth will slow to 1.37 percent by the
fourth quarter, according to a forecast by the statistics bureau,
amid concern that elevated U.S. unemployment and European
austerity may crimp export gains across Asia.  Regional governments should sustain the expansion by
refraining from tightening fiscal and monetary policies “too
quickly,” the Asian Development Bank said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .
 Jay Wang  in Singapore at 
 jwang298@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  