-- Takefuji Bond Investors May Recover Less Than 10% of Holdings, Nomura Says
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2010-09-28T03:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/takefuji-bond-investors-may-recover-less-than-10-of-holdings-nomura-says.html
Takefuji Corp.  bond investors may
recover less than 10 percent of the face value of their holdings
if Japan’s third-largest consumer lender files for bankruptcy
today, according to Nomura Securities Co.  “It’s hard to see a loss rate lower than 90 percent,”
 Toshihiro Uomoto , chief credit analyst at Nomura in Tokyo, wrote
in a note to clients. Takefuji may have to pay as much to settle
claims for overcharged interest as it owes on unsecured bonds
and loans, he said.  Takefuji, based in Tokyo, will file for bankruptcy
protection today because of rising refunds to borrowers for
overcharged interest, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the matter. Japan’s consumer lenders are battling
to survive after a 2006 crackdown on coercive lending practices
and tighter borrowing laws saddled them with 4.4 trillion yen
($52 billion) in costs.  Takefuji has 433.6 billion yen of  liabilities , Tokyo Shoko
Research Ltd. said in a statement yesterday. It has 91.4 billion
yen of bonds outstanding, including $645 million of 9.2 percent
notes due in April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Traders in so-called recovery locks forecast an 18 percent
recovery rate yesterday, which is “a bit too high,” according
to Uomoto.  Recovery locks are bought as insurance by sellers of
credit-default swaps, such as banks, hedge funds and insurers.
Holders of recovery locks agree to exchange a preset fixed rate
for the actual amount received by bondholders after a default.  Credit-default swaps protecting Takefuji debt for five
years were quoted at 8,853 basis points yesterday compared with
4,408 basis points on Sept. 13, according to CMA prices in New
York. A basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000
annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  The swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its debt obligations less the value of the defaulted debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net ; 