-- Takefuji's Credit-Default Swap Traders Seek Ruling on Bankruptcy Trigger
-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2010-09-29T03:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/takefuji-credit-default-swap-traders-seek-ruling-on-bankruptcy-trigger.html
The committee that governs credit-
default swaps in Japan was asked to rule whether contracts
protecting against a default by  Takefuji Corp.  were triggered by
the consumer lender filing for bankruptcy.  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association ’s
determinations committee will rule if swaps on Takefuji should
be settled, the New York-based association said on its website.
Contracts protecting a net $786.8 million of the Tokyo-based
company’s debt were outstanding as of Sept. 24, according to the
Depository Trust Clearing Corp., which runs a central repository
for the credit swaps market.  Takefuji, founded in 1966, became the biggest casualty of a
four-year crackdown on coercive lending to individuals when it
filed for bankruptcy protection yesterday, listing 433.6 billion
yen ($5.1 billion) of liabilities. Japan’s consumer lenders are
battling to survive after tighter borrowing laws and claims for
overcharged interest saddled them with 4.4 trillion yen in costs.  “The filing came at a surprising time,” said  Akira Nomura ,
a credit analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Some
overseas investors seem to have hedged Takefuji’s dollar bonds
or convertible bonds with credit-default swaps, and they may
have been waiting for this event.”  Recovery Outlook  Takefuji bond investors may recover less than 10 percent of
the face value of their holdings, Nomura Securities Co. chief
credit analyst  Toshihiro Uomoto  wrote in a note to clients on
Sept. 27. The lender has 91.1 billion yen of bonds outstanding,
including $645 million of 9.2 percent notes due in April,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ISDA’s determinations committee will meet at 9:00 a.m.
London time on Sept. 30, according to association’s website.
After ruling that Takefuji’s bankruptcy filing is a so-called
credit event triggering swaps, the panel will probably also
decide to hold an auction to settle the contracts, according to
Mizuho’s Nomura. The auction will take place “by mid-November,
unless there is something unexpected,” he said.  Consumer lender  Aiful Corp.  won approval from creditors for
a debt restructuring plan to avoid bankruptcy in December,
triggering Japan’s first auction to settle credit-default swaps.
Traders set a value of 33.875 percent of face value for
contracts linked to the Tokyo-based company.  The cost of swaps insuring against a default by competitor
Promise Co. for five years jumped 54 basis points yesterday to
584 basis points, according to CMA prices in New York. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its debt obligations less the value of the defaulted debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net 
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  