-- Akzo Nobel Pledge to Boost Dividend Falls Short; Shares Drop
-- B y   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r
-- 2010-09-28T08:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/akzo-nobel-aims-for-sales-of-26-9-billion-while-maintaining-13-15-margin.html
Akzo Nobel NV , the world’s largest
paint maker, pledged to increase this year’s dividend to a level
below analysts’ estimates, sending the Dutch paint maker’s
shares as much as 4.3 percent lower.  Shareholder  payouts should advance by 5 euro cents to 1.4
euros, according to a strategy update unveiled by Chief
Executive Officer  Hans Wijers  in London today. The pledge falls
short of the average 1.6 euros in a Bloomberg survey of 27
analysts.  Akzo Nobel said consumer caution and the state of the
construction and housing markets continue to weigh on its
outlook. The company aims to raise annual revenue by more than
50 percent to 20 billion euros ($26 billion) in the coming five
years by tapping demand in faster-growing markets such as India
and China and seeking further takeovers.  “The change in dividend policy implies a floor to the
dividend, but the rate of increase in 2010 is disappointing,”
 Martin Dunwoodie , an analyst at Deutsche Bank, said in a note.  The Dutch paint-maker plunged 3.7 percent to 45.1 euros as
of 10:44 a.m. in Amsterdam, the biggest drop in more than a
month.  Destroy Value  Akzo, which also makes coatings for container vessels and
chloride for swimming pools, aims for earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of 13 percent to 15 percent
of annual sales in the next five years. That compared to an
earlier target of 14 percent for 2011, which Akzo met this year.  “We did a lot of analysis on that,” Wijers told analysts
and investors. “Both in mature and emerging markets, going for
higher margins may destroy value. Investing in a brand and the
management will create more value in the mid-term.”  Wijers in 2007 sold Akzo Nobel’s drug unit and used the
proceeds for the $15.9 billion purchase of Imperial Chemical
Industries, betting that growth of the U.K. paint maker’s Asian
businesses would offset sluggish demand in both the U.S. and
Europe. Following the integration of ICI, a refurbishment of the
U.S. Glidden brand and a European cost overhaul, Wijers is now
focused on accelerating growth.  “We can grow market shares in mature markets and have
excellent growth plans for high-growth markets,” said Wijers.
“Acquisitions will be part of our growth strategy, though not
of the magnitude of ICI.”  Akzo aims to double revenue from China to $3 billion, and
boost sales from India to 1 billion euros and Brazil to 1.5
billion euros, according to a presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam at 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  