-- Malaysia's Equities Market Rediscovers `Long-Lost Mojo' as Foreigners Buy
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-09-28T04:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/malaysia-s-equities-market-rediscovers-long-lost-mojo-as-foreigners-buy.html
Malaysia’s  stock market  has
“rediscovered its long-lost mojo,” evidenced by rising trading
volumes as a stronger ringgit and economy lure investors, Credit
Suisse Group AG said.  “We have noticed a distinct shift in the tone of the
market over the last few weeks,” according to a report by
analysts led by  Stephen Hagger . “Foreign funds have been
attracted by a combination of a strengthening currency and
economy, Malaysia being part of ‘hot’ Southeast Asia, it being
under-owned, and increasingly Prime Minister  Najib Razak ’s
economic reforms.”  Hagger, whose team was ranked second for Malaysian research
in Institutional Investor’s 2010 Asian poll, favors so-called
proxies for economic growth including banks, property companies,
 Tenaga Nasional Bhd.  and PLUS Expressways Bhd.  Malaysia’s government said on Sept. 21 it plans to develop
a nuclear energy industry, build a mass rail network and create
a shopping district to rival Singapore’s Orchard Road. The plans
are part of the $444 billion worth of potential projects it has
identified to accelerate growth and transform it into a high-
income nation.  The benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI index  has surged 17
percent since the May 26 low, surpassing levels before the start
of the global financial crisis in 2008. Foreigners have become
net buyers of the nation’s stocks since June, Hagger said.  ‘Positive News’  “Up until recently, stocks did not react to positive news,
and the market lacked a certain vibrancy,” Hagger said.  That’s changing as  turnover  increases, Hagger said. Trading
volume on the stock market rose to 1.7 billion shares on Sept.
24, the highest level since Jan. 5, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The daily average has risen to 843 million shares
this quarter so far, from 788 million in the second quarter.  Malaysia’s economy expanded 8.9 percent in the second
quarter, close to the fastest pace in a decade, the central bank
said on Aug. 18. Growth may exceed 6 percent this year, Governor
 Zeti Akhtar Aziz  said then. That’s helped to boost the Malaysian
ringgit by 10.8 percent against the dollar this year, the best
performance in Asia excluding Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  