-- Ally Financial Asked to Halt Evictions in Colorado
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2010-09-28T16:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/ally-financial-asked-to-halt-evictions-in-colorado-update1-.html
Ally Financial Inc., the lender
that stopped evictions in 23 states amid concern that its
foreclosure process may be illegal, was asked by Colorado’s
attorney general to extend the freeze by its GMAC Mortgage unit
to his state.  In a letter dated yesterday, Attorney General  John W. Suthers  said he wanted to hear what new procedures GMAC has put
in place to “ensure that fair and accurate representations are
made when it pursues foreclosure actions.” He asked for a
meeting between GMAC and members of his consumer protection
staff.  GMAC Mortgage notified agents and brokers on Sept. 17 that
it had suspended evictions in 23 states. Last week, Ally, the
Detroit-based auto and home lender, said it found a
“technical” deficiency in its foreclosure process allowing
employees to sign documents without a notary present or with
information they didn’t personally know was true. Colorado
wasn’t one of the 23 states.  Attorneys general in at least five states including Texas
and Florida are investigating GMAC mortgage practices and
California has ordered the company to prove its foreclosures are
legal or halt them. In North Carolina, the attorney general’s
office has asked for a meeting with a GMAC Mortgage
representative and more information from the company about its
foreclosure practices.  Colorado Foreclosures  GMAC initiated more than 1,000 foreclosure actions in
Colorado since January 1, Suthers, the attorney general, said in
his letter. In most, if not all of these foreclosures, “local
attorneys for GMAC represent in various required documents that
GMAC Mortgage LLC is the ‘holder of the evidence of debt’ under
Colorado law,” he said.  These lawyers made further representations about the unpaid
loan balance, its delinquency and the validity of the note and
deed of trust, he said. “While these are not sworn affidavits
of the kind at issue in other states, the accuracy of these
documents is essential for preserving the integrity of the
foreclosure process in Colorado.”  North Carolina sent a similar letter to Ally yesterday.
“The use of unverified affidavits to obtain judicial relief
could constitute a fraud upon the court,” North Carolina
Assistant Attorney General  Philip Lehman  wrote in a Sept. 27
letter to Ally General Counsel  William B. Solomon Jr .  “A willful corporate pattern and practice of generating
affidavits from employees who have no personal knowledge of the
facts asserted could constitute unfair and deceptive
practices,” he wrote. Lehman said he wants confirmation of the
company’s moratorium on foreclosure-related evictions.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 