-- Ally Gets Ohio, Colorado, North Carolina Queries on Evictions
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-09-28T21:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/ally-gets-ohio-colorado-north-carolina-queries-on-foreclosure-process.html
Ally Financial Inc. , the lender
that stopped evictions in 23 states, faces new queries from
Ohio, Colorado and North Carolina about whether its foreclosure
process is legal.  Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray  asked state judges in
a  letter  today to do a special review of all foreclosures
involving Ally’s GMAC Mortgage unit and urged them “to exercise
caution when approving any  foreclosure  orders involving GMAC.”
Colorado Attorney General  John W. Suthers  asked Ally yesterday
to extend the freeze on evictions to his state, and his
counterpart in North Carolina is asking for a meeting with GMAC.  Mortgage firms have drawn fire from lawyers and homeowners
about methods used to streamline foreclosures as U.S. evictions
hit record levels. GMAC Mortgage notified agents and brokers on
Sept. 17 that it had suspended evictions. Ally, the Detroit-
based parent company of GMAC, said it found a “technical”
defect in its foreclosure process allowing employees to sign
documents without a notary present or with information they
didn’t personally know was true.  Attorneys general in at least five states including Texas
and Florida are investigating GMAC’s  practices  and California
has told the company to prove its foreclosures are legal or halt
them.  North Carolina sent a letter yesterday telling Ally that
“use of unverified affidavits to obtain judicial relief could
constitute a fraud upon the court.” The letter was sent by
North Carolina Assistant Attorney General  Philip Lehman  to Ally
General Counsel  William B. Solomon Jr .  Ally spokeswoman  Gina Proia  wasn’t immediately available
for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Danielle Kucera  in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net 
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 