-- Amaranth Suit Certified as Class Action by U.S. Judge
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-09-28T22:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/amaranth-suit-on-market-manipulation-claims-to-be-class-action-judge-says.html
Amaranth Advisors LLC, the hedge
fund that collapsed in 2006 after losing $6.6 billion on energy
trades, must face a class-action lawsuit in which it’s accused
of market manipulation, a judge in New York ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Shira A. Scheindlin  said in a decision
made public today that futures traders who bought, sold or held
gas futures or options on futures contracts from Feb. 16 to
Sept. 28 in 2006 can sue as a group.  “This case is best suited to proceed as a class action,”
Scheindlin said in the opinion. “It involves more than 1,000
potential claimants who are asserting claims based on common
issues.”  Amaranth failed after losing two-thirds of its assets on
natural-gas bets. According to the traders, Amaranth used its
market power to manipulate the prices of natural gas futures
contracts.  The hedge fund controlled more than half of the U.S.
natural gas market before it collapsed, according to a 2007 U.S.
Senate report.  “Judge Scheindlin made no decision on the merits of the
claims against Amaranth and we are confident that if, and when,
those merits are heard, the claims against Amaranth will be
rejected,”  Steven M. Schwartz , a lawyer for Amaranth, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Schwartz said the chief economist of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission determined that Amaranth didn’t cause the
changes in natural gas futures pricing in 2006. Amaranth is
considering an appeal of Scheindlin’s ruling, he said.  The case is In Re Amaranth Natural Gas Commodities
Litigation, 07-cv-06377, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at  drovella@bloomberg.net . 