-- Man Group Expects 55% Drop in First-Half Profit as Fees Decline
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2010-09-28T10:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/man-group-says-assets-advance-2-6-helped-by-favorable-currency-movements.html
Man Group Plc , the hedge fund
manager that’s buying GLG Partners Inc., said it estimated
first-half profit will drop by 55 percent as income from
management and performance fees decline.  Pretax profit will be about $135 million for the six months
ended Sept. 30 compared with $302 million in the year-earlier
period, the firm said in a statement today. Investors withdrew
$600 million from the London-based firm in the fiscal second
quarter. Performance fees dropped 79 percent to 10 million
pounds in the fiscal first half, the firm said.  The statement “was disappointing in our view as it
indicated that the company expects to report performance fees,
flows and performance below our expectations,” said  David McCann , a London-based analyst at Numis Securities Ltd., who
downgraded his earnings forecast by 12 percent to 14 percent and
lowered his stock recommendation to “add” from “buy.”  The world’s largest publicly traded hedge-fund manager
agreed in May to buy New York-based GLG for $1.6 billion to
broaden its range of funds. The firm said the acquisition would
create a company with about $63 billion in assets, easing
dependence on Man AHL Diversified Plc, an investment program
that accounts for more than half of Man’s holdings.  Assets are likely to increase to $39.5 billion at Sept. 30
from $38.5 billion at the end of June, Man Group said. The firm
had sales of $1.4 billion in the period, while favorable
currency movements added $1.7 billion to assets.  ‘Mixed Signals’  “The last six months have seen further mixed macro signals
across global economies and continued uncertainty in markets,”
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Clarke  said in the statement. “It
has therefore been pleasing to see Man’s investment strategies
performing well in these difficult conditions.”  Man Group fell 2.9 percent to 213 pence at 11:21 a.m. in
London trading, valuing the company at 3.6 billion pounds ($5.7
billion). The stock has declined 31 percent this year.  Costs linked to the GLG takeover and an arbitration
settlement with MF Global are expected to total $80 million, Man
Group said. The company expects the GLG purchase to close
shortly after GLG’s shareholder meeting on Oct. 12.  Man AHL Diversified Futures Ltd. , which uses computer
programs to identify trades in more than 150 futures markets
around the world, increased about 7.6 percent in the year until
the end of August. AHL slumped 16 percent last year for its
first loss, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net  and  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  