-- Landrieu Retains Block on Budget Director Nominee
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-09-28T20:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/landrieu-says-she-plans-to-keep-block-on-budget-director-nominee.html
U.S. Senator  Mary Landrieu  said she
plans to extend her hold on  Jack Lew ’s confirmation to lead the
White House budget office until the administration lifts or
modifies its moratorium on deep-water drilling.  President  Barack Obama ’s decision to halt exploration after
 BP Plc ’s Gulf of Mexico spill is causing more harm in her state
than damage from the spill, Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat, told
reporters today in Washington. Landrieu said she met during the
weekend with Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  and today with
 Michael Bromwich , director of the U.S. office that oversees
offshore oil exploration.  “We’re making slight progress but not enough for me to
change my position,” Landrieu said after testifying to a
national commission investigating the spill. “I’m getting
pushback but I didn’t expect they would be happy about it so I’m
not surprised.”  Lew’s nomination was approved 22-1 last week by the Senate
Budget Committee, clearing the way for a vote by the full
chamber. The Senate lets lawmakers block action on presidential
nominations, a power they sometimes wield to get concessions
from the executive branch on unrelated issues.  Landrieu’s hold on the nomination comes at an inopportune
time, said Kenneth Baer, spokesman for the Office of Management
and Budget. The administration is compiling a proposed budget
for fiscal 2012 that Obama will send to Congress in February, he
said.  “You want an OMB director in there, with sleeves rolled
up, working day in and day out,” Baer said, “Right now, Jack
Lew can’t do that.” Lew remains deputy secretary of state.  Lew, Orszag  Obama nominated Lew to replace  Peter Orszag , who stepped
down in July.  Jeffrey Zients , OMB’s deputy director, is serving
as acting director until Lew is confirmed.  The Obama administration halted drilling in waters deeper
than 500 feet (152 meters) after BP’s Macondo well off the
Louisiana coast blew out April 20, killing 11 workers and
setting off the biggest U.S. oil spill. The suspension is
scheduled to expire Nov. 30.  Salazar may soon lift the ban, now that the measure has met
some of its goals, the government said in court papers. Bromwich
yesterday told the National Commission on the BP Deepwater
Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling that he is reassigning
staff to speed processing of drilling permits under new safety
and environmental rules.  Landrieu and Republican Governor  Bobby Jindal  are among
Louisiana officials who have urged an end to the ban. The
administration also slowed permits in shallow waters not subject
to the moratorium.  Seven Permits  Seven permits for shallow-water wells have been approved
since new rules were issued in June, according to the Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management website. The fewest permits issued in a
month last year was eight, Louisiana Lieutenant Governor  Scott Angelle  said at an Aug. 4 hearing in New Orleans.  “The oil spill made us sad, the moratorium makes us mad,”
Angelle said today at the commission’s hearing. “There has not
been one shred of evidence of a systemic failure, and yet we
have a one-size fits all response from the government.”  “Oh yeah, we’re getting a lot of pushback,” Landrieu
said. “They’re not happy with it but I said our people are not
happy with the moratorium.”  Budget challenges are being compounded by the Nov. 2
elections, delays passing a federal budget for fiscal year that
starts Oct. 1, a federal commission poised to make tax and
spending recommendations on Dec. 1, a directive to most agencies
to submit proposals for a 5 percent budget cut and an order to
all agencies to identify the five poorest performing programs.  “Everyone’s doing as much as they can but at some point
you really need an OMB director,” Baer said. He said
administration officials, “including the White House,” are in
contact with Landrieu and her staff, urging that Lew’s
nomination be allowed to proceed to a Senate vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in Washington at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  