-- Anglo Irish Cost May Exceed 35 Billion Euros, S&P Says
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   L o u i s a   F a h y
-- 2010-09-28T15:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/anglo-irish-cost-may-exceed-35-billion-euros-s-p-says-update1-.html
Anglo Irish Bank Corp. ’s bailout
may cost Ireland’s government more than 35 billion euros ($47
billion), Standard & Poor’s credit analyst  Trevor Cullinan  said,
exceeding the rating company’s previous estimate.  “Estimates which were previously strongly against our 35
billion euro now seem to be coming in line with that
recapitalization cost,” Cullinan said in an interview conducted
Sept. 14 and broadcast by Dublin’s  RTE  Radio today. “So the
government’s kind of Plan B with Anglo means this 35 billion
euros could even be exceeded.”  Ireland’s financial regulator is due this week to release
an estimate for recapitalizing the state-owned lender as it is
split into a deposit bank and an asset-recovery unit. Irish
bonds fell today, pushing the extra yield investors demand to
hold the country’s 10-year debt over German bunds to a record.  “The sell-off seems to be triggered by the S&P remarks,”
said  Fergal O’Leary , a director at Dublin-based Glas Securities,
which specializes in fixed-income markets. “S&P’s previous
estimate of 35 billion euros was at the upper end of market
expectations. Any suggestion that this could be raised is a
concern.”  S&P lowered Ireland’s credit rating to ‘AA-’ on Aug. 24,
warning of further possible downgrades. The ratings company said
yesterday it doesn’t expect Ireland to default on its debts.
Anglo won’t need more than 29 billion euros, two people with
knowledge of the matter said last week.  Ratings  If the 35 billion-euro estimate is exceeded, “there
potentially could be further downward rating actions from
Standard & Poor’s,” said Cullinan.  The premium investors charge to hold Irish 10-year debt
over the German equivalent, Europe’s benchmark, rose to 448
basis points today from 430 yesterday. Ireland has a “clear
pathway” out its banking crisis, which has come at a
“horrendous” cost, Irish Foreign Affairs Minister  Micheal Martin  said today in New York in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.”  Martin’s government colleague, Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan , plans to meet investors in New York next month to
convince them the country can withstand a banking crisis,
according to a government aid with knowledge of the matter. The
visit is being planned following a World Bank and International
Monetary Fund meeting in Washington DC in October, the person
said, declining to be identified as details haven’t been
finalized.  ‘Resolute’  Anglo Irish’s senior debt was yesterday cut to the lowest
investment grade rating by Moody’s Investors Service, which said
it may reduce the rating to junk unless the government
guarantees bondholders against losses. Anglo Irish’s
subordinated debt, guaranteed by Ireland’s government until
Sept. 29, was downgraded to ‘Caa1’ from ‘Ba1.’  The Irish government appears to “remain resolute that
there will be no renegotiation” with Anglo Irish’s senior
bondholders, Goodbody Stockbrokers said in a note to clients
today.  The cost of credit-default swaps to insure the senior debt
of Anglo Irish rose 4 basis points today to 940, after earlier
reaching an all-time high, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts have more than doubled since July, CMA prices show.
Credit-default swaps on Irish government debt climbed 4.5 basis
points to 493 from a record-high closing price yesterday, CMA
prices show.  “It’s all about getting clarity on Anglo at the moment,”
said O’Leary at Glas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
 Louisa Fahy  in Dublin at 
 lnesbitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  