-- AOL Acquires TechCrunch Sites to Add Technology Blogs
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-09-28T20:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/aol-agrees-to-purchase-technology-website-owner-techcrunch-to-add-blogs.html
AOL Inc. , the Internet company spun
off from  Time Warner Inc. , agreed to buy technology-blog owner
TechCrunch Inc. to add news content and advertising revenue.  TechCrunch’s blogs will become part of the AOL Technology
Network “while retaining their editorial independence,” AOL
said today in a statement. The company paid about $25 million,
according to two people familiar with the matter who asked not
to be identified because the terms weren’t made public.  AOL is using acquisitions to attract more users, along with
the advertisers that want to reach them. TechCrunch, the third
most popular technology blog, may help the company remain
relevant as Web users spend more time on competing sites, such
as Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. New York-based AOL scooped up
two other companies today: 5min Media and Thing Labs Inc.  “They want to keep accumulating sites where there are a
lot of users,” said  David Joyce , a media analyst at New York-
based Miller Tabak & Co. “You are going to get more page views
out of a TechCrunch user than you would out of an average user
of the Internet.”  In August, TechCrunch sites had 3.8 million unique
visitors, according to Reston, Virginia, data tracker ComScore
Inc. That puts it third behind AOL’s Engadget blog, with 7.5
million visitors, and Gizmodo, a site owned by Gawker Media,
with 6.5 million. AOL, then part of Time Warner, purchased
Engadget’s parent company, Weblogs Inc., in 2005.  AOL rose 63 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $24.15 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have
gained 3.7 percent this year.  5min Media, Brizzly  Earlier today, AOL acquired 5min Media, which has a library
of more than 200,000 videos, covering topics such as fashion,
cooking and fitness. The company also purchased Thing Labs,
which makes the Brizzly line of social software. The programs
let users create and share content online.  Meanwhile, AOL said today it’s closing social news
aggregator Propeller.com, which has struggled to attract as many
visitors as Facebook and Twitter.  TechCrunch was founded in 2005 by  Michael Arrington , who
started the blog from his home in Atherton, California, to share
news about emerging Internet companies. The company is now based
in San Francisco and has more than 40 employees, according to
its website. In addition to publishing an assortment of
technology blogs, TechCrunch hosts conferences, including
 TechCrunch Disrupt , which is going on now in San Francisco.  Time to Sell  Becoming part of  AOL  will help TechCrunch alleviate some of
the challenges that came as a result of its rapid growth,
Arrington said in an interview.  “It was time for us either to start investing a lot more
money in things like technology and marketing -- which probably
meant raising a venture round -- or to simply sell and partner
with somebody who could do that,” he said.  “AOL has a very
robust, large blog network that shows they have the software
side nailed. So it solves a real problem for us from the
technology side.”  TechCrunch expects sales of $10 million in 2010. The
company will have a profit of about $3.5 million, according to a
person familiar with its finances.  Arrington said he will remain at  AOL  for at least three
years after the acquisition. “There are incentives for me and
the team to stay,” he said.  Prior to TechCrunch, Arrington worked at technology
startups, including Achex Inc., a company he co-founded that was
bought by  First Data Corp.  in 2001. Until 1999, he was a
corporate and securities lawyer, whose clients included
technology companies, venture funds and investment banks.  For  Tim Armstrong , who became chief executive officer of
AOL in April 2009 and led its spinoff from Time Warner,
TechCrunch is part of a return to expansion following a period
of unloading assets, Joyce said. In two separate deals announced
this year, AOL sold social network  Bebo  and instant-messaging
service ICQ to private investors.  “Now they’re in a more proactive mode,” Joyce said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  