-- Apple Sues Nokia in U.K. in Ongoing Patent Fight
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   D i a n a   B e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-09-28T17:22:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/apple-sues-nokia-in-u-k-claims-infringement-of-patents.html
Apple Inc.  said it filed a patent-
infringement lawsuit against  Nokia Oyj  in the U.K., part of a
broader fight between the companies over smartphone technology.  A copy of the complaint, filed yesterday in the U.K. High
Court of Justice Chancery Division, wasn’t immediately
available.  Kristin Huguet , an Apple spokeswoman, said the case
is related to patent-infringement claims that Apple lodged
against Nokia in December in the U.S.  “This is an unsurprising development, which seems designed
to put pressure on the ongoing dialogue between both
companies,” said  Mark Durrant , a Nokia spokesman. “It changes
nothing in the fundamentals of the matter, which are rooted in
Apple’s refusal to respect Nokia’s intellectual property and
attempt to free-ride on the back of Nokia’s innovation.”  The dispute began in October, when Espoo, Finland-based
Nokia filed a  lawsuit  accusing Apple of infringing 10 patents.
It demanded royalties on all iPhones sold since Apple Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Jobs , 55, introduced the device in 2007.  Charges and countercharges followed, including complaints
at the U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington that
may result in a ban on imports of either the Nokia or Apple
phones. Some Apple claims against Nokia are scheduled for a
trial beginning Nov. 1 at the agency, and Nokia’s case against
Apple is scheduled for Nov. 29, according to information on the
ITC’s website.  ‘Defend Itself’  The U.K. case is based on “nine implementation patents
already in suit between the two companies in the U.S.,” Durrant
said. “Though litigation is always a last resort for Nokia, the
company will continue to defend itself to the utmost.”  In court filings in December and February, Apple claimed
Nokia was seeking to force Apple into surrendering access to
proprietary technology that differentiates the iPhone. Apple
said it doesn’t want to license its iPhone-related patents to
competitors.  The new case is Apple Inc. v. Nokia Corp., HC10CO3053, High
Court of Justice, Chancery Division (London).  Nokia’s ITC case against Apple is In the Matter of
Electronic Devices, including Mobile Phones, Portable Music
Players and Computers, 337-701, and Apple’s case is In the
Matter of Certain Mobile Communications and Computer Devices,
337-703, both U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 