-- Marble Bar Said to Shut Asia Hedge Fund, Mulls Options for Singapore Team
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-09-28T03:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/marble-bar-said-to-shut-asia-hedge-fund-mulls-options-for-singapore-team.html
Marble Bar Asset Management LLP,
the London-based hedge fund firm focused on Europe, has closed
its Asia fund and is considering options for its team in
Singapore, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  The firm has returned money to investors in its MBAM Pan
Asia Fund, the people said, asking not to be identified because
the information is private. The Asia fund, which had its first
full year of trading in 2005, had assets of about $100 million
before it was closed, down from about $530 million at its peak,
the people said.  Marble Bar management including  Hilton Nathanson , who
started the company in 2002 to trade European equities, bought
back the firm in May from Zurich-based  EFG  International AG in
exchange for a portion of future fees. Marble Bar’s main hedge
fund is focusing on European stocks, dropping strategies that
had been added since EFG’s purchase in December 2007, people
with knowledge of the matter said in June.  “By refocusing on their home base, stripping out the
complications, simplifying the business, they’re increasing
their chances of generating some performance,” said  Peter Douglas , the principal of Singapore-based GFIA Pte, which
advises investors seeking to allocate money to hedge funds and
runs a wealth-management business. “Marble Bar is fundamentally
a London shop, they understand Europe.”  Andrew Hood, a spokesman for Marble Bar, declined to
comment.  Chief Investment Officer  Jake Kee  oversaw the Asia fund in
Singapore with another manager. Marble Bar has already stopped
operating in Hong Kong, where it had three managers, one of the
people said.  Declining Assets  The Asia fund didn’t lose money during the global credit
crisis in 2008 and its returns were little changed, one of the
people said, declining to give the fund’s performance. The fund
gained in 2009, though it trailed the 34 percent advance in the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the person said.  The firm’s assets declined to about $1 billion from a peak
of $6 billion in the first half of 2008 and from $4.4 billion
when EFG, the Swiss bank controlled by Greek billionaire Spiro
Latsis and his family, bought the stake, according to EFG
statements.  EFG acquired 90 percent of Marble Bar for $517 million as
the bank targeted assets under management of as much as 131
billion Swiss francs ($133 billion) by the end of 2008.  Marble Bar posted a pretax profit of $9.1 million in 2009,
according to EFG’s annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  