-- Harper Two-Year Bond Spread to U.S. Widens Most Since 2008: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-09-28T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/harper-two-year-bond-spread-to-u-s-widens-most-since-2008-canada-credit.html
The  gap  in yields on two-year
Canadian and U.S. government debt has increased this month by
the widest margin in two years with the Bank of Canada lifting
borrowing costs while the Federal Reserve stands ready to pump
more money into the economy.  Canadian securities yield 1 percentage point more than two-
year U.S. notes, or 0.27 percentage point more than in August,
according to Bloomberg data. That’s the biggest increase since
the 0.48 percentage-point  gain  in September 2008, when investors
worldwide sought a refuge in U.S. government debt as Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed and credit markets froze.  The yield advantage of Canadian bonds over their U.S.
counterparts means international investors may step up purchases
of the nation’s debt as benchmark rates remain close to record
lows. Foreigners bought C$5.17 billion ($5.03 billion) more
Canadian bonds than they sold in July, the 19th consecutive
monthly net purchase, Canada’s statistics agency said last week.  “There’s potential for further widening, but this is close
to the level that it should trade around for most of the next
six months or so,”  Mark Chandler , head of Canadian fixed-
income and currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto,
said via e-mail. “A combination of the last rate hike and the
prospect of U.S. quantitative easing drove it.”  Canada’s two-year yields rose 21 basis points this month,
gaining more than half of that on Sept. 8, the day the central
bank lifted borrowing costs for the third time this year as the
nation recovers faster from the recession than the U.S., its
largest trading partner. Canada’s government bonds are set for
the first monthly loss since March.  Provincial Bonds  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of Canada’s companies instead of its
federal government ended yesterday at 144 basis points. The
spread has tightened 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
so far in September and the same amount since June 30. Yields
fell to 3.69 percent, from 3.95 percent at the end of June.  In the nation’s provincial bond market, relative yields
tightened to 56 basis points yesterday, from 60 on Aug. 31 and
64 on June 30. Yields rose to 2.98 percent, from 2.93 percent at
the end of last month. Provincial debt has made investors 0.4
percent this month, extending the gain this quarter to 3.3
percent and this year to 7.5 percent, which would be the best
annual performance since 2005.  Government bonds, with about C$326 billion outstanding,
have declined 0.1 percent this month, after reinvested interest,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch Index. The index
dropped 0.8 percent in March, its last monthly loss. U.S.
government bonds are down 0.1 percent this month, compared with
a 0.7 percent drop for government bonds worldwide.  Ontario, British Columbia  Ontario, Canada’s most-populous province, paid 88.5 basis
points over benchmarks to sell C$750 million in a reoffering of
its 4.65 percent bonds due in June 2041, bringing the total
outstanding to C$2.55 billion.  British Columbia, the third-most populous  province ,
reoffered C$500 million of its 4.3 percent bonds due June 2042
at 82 basis points over benchmarks. The issue now has C$1
billion outstanding.  The U.S. two-year note’s  yield  reached an all-time low of
0.41 percent on Sept. 22, the day after Fed policy makers said
they’re willing to ease monetary policy further to boost the
economy. By contrast, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government
released a fiscal plan in March aimed at balancing the budget
within five years by ending stimulus spending.  ‘Spread to Widen’  Canada’s 2-year  yield  ended yesterday at 1.42 percent,
versus 0.424 percent for the U.S. 2-year. The spread has
averaged about 53 basis points in Canada’s favor over 20 years,
Bloomberg data show.  “The Bank of Canada delivered on a rate hike in September,
forcing Canada’s short end to sell off to accommodate the new
higher level,”  Eric Lascelles , chief economics and rates
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said via e-mail. “I’d look
for the spread to widen more across 2011.”  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said yesterday in Montreal
his government would “protect” Canada’s economic recovery
while working to reduce the deficit. Flaherty released a
progress report on the stimulus program that showed it boosted
Canadian economic growth by an average of 1.5 percentage points
each quarter since the second quarter of last year and created
or helped protect about 200,000 jobs.  Yields on the December 2010 bankers acceptances futures,
the most-active contract, fell 2 basis points yesterday to 1.37
percent, indicating traders are trimming bets on short-term
interest rates, and may be pricing in a pause in rate increases
at the central bank’s next meeting on Oct. 19. The yield was
above 2 percent in April.  ‘Re-Start Tightening’  “Although the market is bracing for a break in the
tightening cycle, a pause will not last forever,”  Mohammed Ahmed , a Toronto-based rates strategist at Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce, said via e-mail. “The Bank of Canada is
likely to re-start tightening before the Fed is even out of the
gates, and as such there is a case to be made for a widening of
the Canada-U.S. 2-year spread.”  Ahmed, Lascelles and Chandler all predict the Bank of
Canada will hold its key  overnight rate  steady at 1 percent
until early next year, before resuming its cycle of rate
increases. The central bank lifted borrowing costs from a record
low 0.25 percent starting in June.  The Fed will hold rates at a record low range of zero to
0.25 percent until the third quarter of 2011, according to the
weighted average of 68 responses in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  The Canadian dollar has dropped 2 percent this month
against a basket of currencies from 10 developed-world nations,
the worst performer after the U.S. dollar, yen and pound among
the group, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes. The loonie, as the dollar is sometimes known because of
the aquatic bird on the one-dollar coin, has risen 1.5 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  