-- Arsenal, Chelsea Stay Perfect in Champions League Soccer Groups
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2010-09-29T00:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/arsenal-chelsea-madrid-bayern-lead-groups-after-champions-league-wins.html
Arsenal won 3-1 at Partizan
Belgrade and Chelsea got a 2-0 home win against Marseille as the
London soccer rivals maintained perfect Champions League starts
before their first matchup of the English season.  Record nine-time European champion Real Madrid and four-
time winner Bayern Munich had away wins last night to lead their
groups. Spartak Moscow and Shakhtar Donetsk also have the
maximum six points from two matches.  Marouane Chamakh and  Sebastien Squillaci  scored second-half
goals for Arsenal in Belgrade after  Andrey Arshavin  gave the
Gunners a 15th-minute lead. Cleo got the home team’s goal from
the penalty spot and each side missed a penalty kick in the
second half.  “When it was 1-1 it was a question of patience but in the
end we got an important win,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger ,
whose team visits Chelsea on Oct. 3, said in comments on UEFA’s
website. “It puts us in a good position confidence wise.”  Partizan was reduced to 10 men after 56 minutes when Marko
Jovanovic was red-carded for fouling Chamakh. Arshavin’s
subsequent penalty kick was saved by Vladimir Stojkovic.  Arsenal took the lead 16 minutes later when Chamakh met
 Tomas Rosicky ’s cross with a header that Stojkovic tipped onto
the crossbar. Chamakh put the rebound into the net.  Squillaci got his first goal for Arsenal 11 minutes later
when he headed in substitute  Sami Nasri ’s corner kick. Two
minutes later, Gunners goalkeeper Lukasz Fabianski, standing in
for the injured  Manuel Almunia , turned Cleo’s second spot kick
of the game around the goalpost.  Keeper Confidence  “Fabianski had a good game, we have seen the player
tonight who we see in training,” Wenger told Arsenal’s website.
“I am confident he will come out as a great keeper.”  Shakhtar Donetsk won 3-0 at Braga to join Arsenal on six
points from two games in Group H.  Chelsea got the win over Marseille even though the French
champion had more shots and possession at Stamford Bridge in
west London. The Blues moved to six points in Group F ahead of
back-to-back games against Spartak, which beat MSK Zilina 3-0.  Central defender  John Terry  put Chelsea ahead after seven
minutes and  Nicolas Anelka  doubled the advantage from the
penalty spot 21 minutes later.  “It is a good step this victory but the next two games
will be very important,” Chelsea manager  Carlo Ancelotti  said
in comments on his team’s website.  Group Leaders  In Group E, Bayern Munich won 2-1 at Basel and Roma
defeated visiting Cluj by the same score, leaving Bayern three
points clear at the top with the maximum six points.  Substitute Angel Di Maria scored the only goal as Real
Madrid took a two-point lead atop Group G by winning at Auxerre
as past champions Ajax and AC Milan drew 1-1.  Former Ajax striker  Zlatan Ibrahimovic  got the goal for
seven-time champion Milan 14 minutes after  Mounir El Hamdaoui 
scored the opening goal in the 23rd minute for the home team,
which has won the continent’s top title four times.  Inter Milan continues its title defense today against
Werder Bremen, while Manchester United visits Spanish league
leader Valencia. Elsewhere, it’s Rubin Kazan vs Barcelona,
Tottenham vs Twente, Hapoel Tel Aviv vs Lyon, Schalke vs Benfica,
Rangers vs Bursapor and Panathinaikos vs Copenhagen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dex McLuskey  in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  