-- Asian Governments Should Refrain From Tightening `Too Quickly,' ADB Says
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2010-09-28T07:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/asian-government-s-should-refrain-from-tightening-too-quickly-adb-says.html
The  Asian Development Bank  raised
its 2010 economic growth forecast for the region and said
governments should sustain the expansion by refraining from
tightening fiscal and monetary policies “too quickly.”  Asia, excluding Japan, will grow 8.2 percent in 2010,
faster than an April estimate of 7.5 percent, the Manila-based
development lender said in a report today. The ADB maintained
its 2011 growth forecast at 7.3 percent.  Growth in Asia is outpacing the rest of the world,
prompting policy makers to raise interest rates ahead of their
counterparts in the U.S. and Europe to fight inflation and curb
asset price bubbles.  Asian emerging-market stocks  have risen
more than 8 percent this year in dollar terms, beating the 1
percent gain in  global shares , indexes tracked by MSCI show.  “Shifting too quickly to fiscal and monetary tightening
could heighten the risk of another contraction,” the ADB said
in the report. “The global recovery remains shaky, and downside
risks lurk. The possibility of a double-dip recession in the
major industrial economies has not receded completely.”  In one sign of the appeal of Asia’s growth,  Julius Baer
Group Ltd.,  the 120-year-old Swiss private bank, set up a desk
in Singapore to serve wealthy Russians seeking to invest in the
region, according to a report yesterday. The bank forecast as
much as 20 percent annual growth in net money inflows from the
region, compared with the global rate of as much as 6 percent.  Rate Increases  India this month increased its benchmark interest rate a
fifth time this year. Thailand in August raised its key rate and
signaled further increases after the economy overcame political
unrest to grow faster than estimated last quarter. Taiwan,
Malaysia and South Korea are also among those that have boosted
borrowing costs.  In contrast, the U.S. Federal Reserve on Sept. 21 said it’s
“prepared to provide additional accommodation if needed to
support the economic recovery.” Household wealth in the U.S.
fell 2.8 percent in the second quarter as share prices were
depressed by the European debt crisis, according to the Fed’s
Flow of Funds report on Sept. 17.  Developing Asian countries “are starting to raise interest
rates, that means interest rate differentials between emerging
Asia and industrialized countries will widen, that would attract
more capital inflow,”  Jong-Wha Lee , the ADB’s chief economist,
said in Hong Kong today. The capital inflow presents “potential
risk to the global economy” and “another threat to financial
stability” should there be fund reversal, Lee said.  ‘Comfort Zones’  Inflation in Asia will generally be within central banks’
“comfort zones” and may average 4.1 percent in 2010 and 3.9
percent in 2011, the ADB said.  China will expand 9.6 percent this year, unchanged from the
previous estimate, the ADB said. It lowered its forecast for the
nation’s inflation to 3.2 percent in 2010 from an earlier
estimate of 3.6 percent.  China’s fiscal stimulus will fade by the end of the year,
and policy makers’ steps to cool the economy, including property
curbs, are easing monetary and credit growth and reducing the
need for further tightening policies, Paul J. Heytens, country
director of the ADB, said in Beijing today. The bank expects no
benchmark interest rate changes this year.  India’s economy will grow 8.5 percent this year, faster
than the previous forecast of 8.2 percent, ADB said today. It
forecast Indonesia’s economy will expand 6.1 percent this year,
faster than the previous projection of 5.5 percent.  The International Monetary Fund has called on Asian nations
to allow greater appreciation in exchange rates to help bolster
global demand.  ADB President  Haruhiko Kuroda  echoed that sentiment today,
telling reporters in Kuala Lumpur that “emerging currencies in
Asia need to be more flexible and probably need to appreciate
against the” euro, dollar and yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  