-- Treasuries, Stocks, Gold Climb on Speculation Fed to Boost Debt Purchases
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2010-09-28T20:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/asian-stocks-commodities-decline-on-europe-economy-concerns-euro-weakens.html
Treasuries rose, sending five-year
yields to the lowest since 2008, while U.S. stocks gained and
the dollar slid as investors speculated the Federal Reserve will
increase purchases of debt to safeguard the economic recovery.  The five-year note’s rate lost 6 basis points to 1.23
percent at 4 p.m. in New York after the government sold $35
billion of the debt at a record-low yield. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  climbed 0.5 percent to 1,147.7, recovering from an
early slump. The Dollar Index, which measures the currency
against six major peers, slid to an eight-month low of 78.17.
Gold surged to a record near $1,312 an ounce and copper climbed.  A bigger-than-forecast drop in consumer confidence to the
lowest level since February and the smallest year-over-year gain
in home prices since March helped trigger bets that the Fed
would announce another round of U.S. bond purchases, a practice
known as quantitative easing. The speculation overshadowed
concern that Europe’s debt crisis is worsening as costs to
protect Irish bonds from default surged to a record high.  “Investors are getting more comfortable with taking some
risk as it sounds like the Fed’s goal is to increase inflation,”
said  Eric Green , director of research at Penn Capital Management
in Philadelphia, which oversees $5 billion. “If the economy
doesn’t get better, there seems to be a belief the Fed is going
to stimulate through purchases. If it does get better, that’s
good for stocks also.”  September Rally  The  S&P 500  has rallied 9.37 percent since the end of
August, poised for its best month since April 2009 and its
biggest September rally since 1939, as concern eased that
Europe’s debt crisis and U.S. unemployment will derail the
economic rebound. Stocks and Treasuries also have gained on
speculation the Fed will buy more U.S. government debt to keep
interest rates low.  Intel Corp., Pfizer Inc. and Alcoa Inc. climbed at least
1.2 percent to lead gains in  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
stocks. Walgreen Co. surged 11 percent for the biggest gain in
the S&P 500 after earnings topped analysts’ estimates.  The Conference Board’s confidence index declined to 48.5,
lower than forecast, from 53.2 the prior month. The median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
decline to 52.1. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values
increased 3.2 percent from July 2009, the smallest year-over-
year gain since March, the group said today in New York.  5-Year Auction  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note lost 6 basis points
to 2.47 percent, the lowest in a month. The five-year securities
sold today drew a yield of 1.260 percent, the lowest since the
government began quarterly sales of the securities in 1976. The
auction yield compared with the 1.276 percent average forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey of 8 of the 18 primary dealers
obligated to participate in auctions.  The Fed announced after its Sept. 21 meeting that it’s
prepared to do more to help the economy, spurring speculation
policy makers will add Treasury securities to the central bank’s
holdings. The Fed today purchased $550 million of Treasury
Inflation Protected securities as part of a program to reinvest
principal payments on its mortgage holdings into long-term
government debt.  “Knowing the Fed is likely to announce another round of
Treasury purchases, likely a month from now, buyers now are just
jumping on board,”  Peter Boockvar , equity strategist at Miller
Tabak & Co. in New York, said in a note to clients. “Yes, there
is an inherent contradiction of buying conventional Treasuries
and believing in reflation but for now the Fed is on your
side.”  European Stocks  European stocks fell as Irish and Portuguese bonds plunged,
fueling concern that the sovereign-debt crisis is worsening.
Michelin & Cie., the world’s second-largest tiremaker, tumbled
10 percent after saying it plans to raise 1.2 billion euros
($1.6 billion) in a rights offering. Akzo Nobel NV lost 2.2
percent after setting a target of 20 billion euros in revenue in
the next five years.  Irish 10-year yields surged 17 basis points to 6.74 percent
and the premium investors demand to own the bonds instead of
benchmark German bunds surged to as high as a record 453 basis
points, or 4.53 percentage points. The so-called  spread  for
Portuguese bonds also touched a record 440 basis points.  Credit-default swaps tied to Irish bonds jumped as much as
33 basis points to 521.5 after more than doubling in the past
two months, according to data provider CMA. Contracts on Anglo
Irish rose 4 basis points to 940, implying a 56 percent
probability of default within five years, after earlier climbing
to an all-time high of 960.5.  Yen Rallies  The yen appreciated 0.4 percent to 83.93 against the dollar
and touched 83.69, the strongest level since the Bank of Japan
intervened to weaken the currency. The Bank of Japan sold yen
Sept. 15 to stem an 11 percent surge in the currency that
hampered an export-led economic recovery. The dollar reached a
five-month low against the euro, dropping as much as 1 percent
to $1.3595.  Crude oil for November delivery fell 0.4 percent to $76.18
a barrel as U.S. gasoline demand declined for the fifth time in
six weeks and on speculation gasoline inventories rose from a
six-month high. Oil dropped after MasterCard Inc. reported that
demand slipped 0.2 percent to 8.98 million barrels of fuel a day
in the week ended Sept. 24.  Copper prices rose for the fourth time in five sessions as
inventories fell and a weaker U.S. dollar boosted demand. Copper
for December delivery rose 1.1 percent to $3.637.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael P. Regan  in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  