-- Asian Currencies Trade Near a Two-Year High as ADB Raises Growth Forecast
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-09-28T09:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/asian-currencies-trade-near-a-two-year-high-as-adb-raises-growth-forecast.html
Asian currencies traded near their
highest level in two years, supported by strengthening inflows
of funds as economies improve.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index  climbed in each of
the last four weeks and the Asian Development Bank today raised
its 2010 growth forecast for the region’s developing nations to
8.2 percent, from an April estimate of 7.5 percent. South
Korea’s won climbed 0.2 percent to 1,146.25 per dollar as of the
3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The basic trend is for Asian currencies to appreciate
because of the fund inflows into the region,” said  Tohru Nishihama , an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc.
in Tokyo. “Asia’s economic growth is very solid and people want
to benefit from that.”  Global fund managers pumped $7.32 billion into stocks in
Indonesia, the Philippines, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand
this month through yesterday, according to exchange data.  The won rose to a four-month high on speculation a
strengthening yuan will deter South Korea from intervening to
help exporters compete with Chinese rivals. The won has gained
4.3 percent so far this month, the best performance among Asia’s
10 most-used currencies, while the yuan has advanced 1.7
percent.  U.S. Pressure  Korean Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said on Sept. 15
that gains in the yuan and the yen may lead to a stronger won.
The yuan has gained 1.5 percent in the past 11 trading days
before the U.S. House of Representatives considers legislation
this week that would let companies petition for higher duties on
imports from China to compensate for a weak currency.  “The government is allowing the won to gain somewhat as it
is wary that U.S. pressure on China to appreciate its currency
will spill over to Korea,” said Seo Jeong Hun, chief economist
at Korea Exchange Bank in Seoul. “Economic fundamentals and
strong exports give the won more room to strengthen in the long-
term.”  The currencies of emerging economies, particularly those in
Asia, need to appreciate against the dollar, euro and the yen to
help rebalance the global economy, Asian Development Bank
President Haruhiko Kuroda said today.  India’s rupee dropped 0.4 percent to 45.20 per dollar on
speculation the Reserve Bank of India may combat gains to help
protect exporters’ earnings. The currency has gained 4.1 percent
this month, the second-best performance in Asia.  “Dollar demand from importers is expected to increase as
we approach the end of the month and that will cap rupee gains
for now,” said  Roy Paul , deputy general manager at Federal Bank
Ltd. in Mumbai. “The RBI may intervene to protect exporters
since the rupee has already rallied quite a bit.”  Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit and Thailand’s baht both
declined 0.1 percent to 3.0933 per dollar and 30.60
respectively. China’s yuan and Singapore’s dollar were both
little changed at 6.6931 and S$1.3225 respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 