-- Asian Stocks Fall on Renewed European-Debt Concern; Takefuji Plunges 32%
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2010-09-28T11:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/asian-stocks-fall-on-renewed-european-concerns-takefuji-poised-to-slump.html
Asian  stocks  fell, dragging down
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index by the most in almost two weeks, on
concern European government finances are worsening and that
China will intensify measures to rein in property prices.  Trend Micro Inc. , which gets almost 20 percent of its sales
from Europe, slumped 3.3 percent in Tokyo as yield spreads
showed perceptions of Ireland and Portugal’s creditworthiness
are deteriorating.  Takefuji Corp. , Japan’s third-largest
consumer lender, plunged 32 percent on speculation it will file
for bankruptcy protection. China Vanke Co. led the country’s
developers lower after China Business News said the government
will announce new measures to limit property-price gains.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  lost 0.5 percent to 126.41 as
of 8:02 p.m. in Tokyo, the biggest drop since Sept. 16. Concerns
that mounting European government debt will hurt global economic
growth contributed to the MSCI gauge slumping 15.7 percent from
its 2010 high on April 15 to its low for the year on May 25. The
index has since climbed 16 percent.  “European debt concerns will linger and that clouds the
pace of the global economic recovery,” said  Hiroshi Morikawa , a
strategist in Tokyo at MU Investments, which manages about $14
billion in assets. “It will take a long time to solve the
issue.”  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  sank 107.38, or 1.1 percent,
to 9,495.76 in Japan, where about 1,400 companies went ex-
dividend today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
means investors who bought the stocks aren’t entitled to receive
dividends for April-September. SMBC Friend Securities estimated
that would erase about 63 points from the Nikkei 225.  Record Irish Spreads  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  sank 0.6 percent, and Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index slumped 1 percent. South Korea’s Kospi
Index dropped 0.3 percent, while India’s Sensitive Index lost
less than 0.1 percent.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The index dropped 0.6 percent yesterday. Financial
companies led the decline as investors speculated that merger
talks between M&T Bank Corp. and Banco Santander SA broke down,
while the extra yield investors demanded to buy Irish 10-year
bonds instead of Germany’s bunds widened to a record.  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.’s senior debt was cut to the lowest
investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service, which said it may
reduce the rating for the Dublin-based firm to junk unless the
government guarantees bondholders against losses. The cost of
credit-default swaps to insure Irish and Portuguese debt has
surged, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Concerns about the global economic outlook haven’t
cleared,” said  Yasushi Noguchi , a strategist in Tokyo at SMBC
Friend Securities Co. “There are still issues related to
Europe’s debt.”  Gold Falls  Trend Micro, the maker of anti-virus software, fell 3.3
percent to 2,583 yen in Tokyo.  Standard Chartered Plc , the
London-based bank, lost 1.9 percent to HK$231 in Hong Kong.  HSBC
Holdings Plc , Europe’s largest bank, slid 1.5 percent to
HK$80.35.  Samsung Electronics Co. , which counts Europe as its
second-biggest market after China, retreated 1.3 percent to
745,000 won in Seoul.  Gold companies declined after the price of the precious
metal for immediate delivery fell for a second day. Bullion lost
0.4 percent, extending yesterday’s 0.1 percent drop.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. , Australia’s biggest gold producer,
dropped 0.8 percent to A$39.38 in Sydney. Avoca Resources Ltd.,
which focuses on gold exploration, lost 3.4 percent to A$3.15.  Shares of Japanese companies that make rare-earth magnets
declined after Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said China’s de
facto ban on exports to Japan of rare earths, materials used in
hybrid vehicles and laptop computers, may have a “big impact”
on Japan’s economy.  September Rally  Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., which makes semiconductor silicon,
synthetic and rare-earth quartz, dropped 1.1 percent to 4,255
yen. Fujitsu Ltd., which makes chips and computers, lost 1.3
percent to 596 yen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has jumped 8.5 percent in
September, set for its biggest monthly increase since July 2009,
as government reports showed U.S. private payrolls climbed more
than forecast and better-than-expected gains in Chinese
industrial production.  Stocks in the gauge trade at 14.2 times estimated  earnings 
on average, compared with 13.7 times for the S&P 500 and 12
times for the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index .  In Tokyo, Takefuji plunged 32 percent to 116 yen, the
 biggest drop  on the Topix index. The company filed for
bankruptcy protection after Japan’s stock markets closed,
becoming the country’s biggest casualty of a four-year crackdown
on coercive lending to consumers.  China Property Speculation  China Vanke , the nation’s biggest listed property developer,
dropped 2.8 percent to 7.89 yuan in Shenzhen. Guangzhou R&F
Properties Co., the biggest real-estate company in the southern
Chinese city, declined 2.9 percent to HK$11.22 in Hong Kong.
China Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled developer, fell 3
percent to HK$16.66.  China will announce a round of measures to tighten property
prices “soon,” targeting second- and third-home loans, the
China Business News said today, citing an unidentified person.  “The impact of further possible tightening measures on the
property market and the whole economy remains unknown,” said  Wu Kan , a Shanghai-based fund manager at Dazhong Insurance Co.,
which oversees $285 million. “Property stocks have yet to fully
price in these policy risks.”  A gauge of health-care stocks in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index sank 1.6 percent, the most of 10 industry groups.  Shionogi & Co. , a Japanese drugmaker, retreated 1.7 percent
to 1,532 yen. Barclays Plc reduced its investment recommendation
to “equal weight” from “overweight” and cut the share-price
estimate to 1,500 yen from 2,100 yen.  In Hong Kong, Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the nation’s
largest producer of the metal, jumped 4.3 percent to HK$7.32 for
the Hang Seng Index’s biggest advance. The company’s  parent 
announced a plan to invest at least 10 billion yuan ($1.5
billion) in rare earths.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 