-- Mauritius to Hold Interest Rates for 2 Quarters After `Exceptional' Cut
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2010-09-28T13:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/mauritius-to-hold-interest-rates-for-2-quarters-after-exceptional-cut.html
Mauritius plans to keep its
benchmark interest rate on hold for the next two quarters after
yesterday’s “exceptional” reduction, central bank Governor
 Rundheersing Bheenick  said.  The bank, which cut the repo rate by 100 basis points to
4.75 percent, won’t change it in that period unless there’s a
major change in the economic climate, Bheenick told a media
briefing today in the capital, Port Louis, according to a text
given to reporters. The Monetary Policy Committee has exhausted
its “room for maneuver,” he said.  The rate cut was prompted by concern that economic growth
may slow next year because of the debt crisis in Mauritius’s
main European markets, with a weaker euro undermining the Indian
Ocean island country’s exports and tourism revenue. Two-thirds
of tourists to Mauritius are from Europe, figures from the
statistics office show.  “The key repo rate could have been reduced step by step
but the MPC considered that the economy needed a shock to regain
momentum,” Bheenick said. Growth is expected to slow
significantly in 2011, and the “debt crisis in Europe and
austerity measures in several European countries would impact
negatively on consumption in our main export markets.”  Mauritius’s government last month announced a 12 billion-
rupee ($392-million) program to boost growth and reduce the
impact on export revenue from a weaker euro. The rupee has
gained about 5 percent against the euro this year. The Central
Statistics Office in June cut its prediction for growth this
year to 4.2 percent from 4.6 percent.  Debt Reduction  Exporters should use the interest rate cut to reduce debt
and adjust their strategies rather than to increase profit,
Bheenick said.  The central bank also increased two-week minimum cash-
reserve requirements for banks to 6 percent from 5 percent with
effect from Oct. 8, according to a statement posted on its
website today. The daily minimum ratio was also raised to 4.5
percent from 4 percent. The bank said the measures will help
address “high excess liquidity in the system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kamlesh Bhuckory  in Port Louis at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 