-- Australian Markets Regulator to Publish Timetable for Rival Exchanges
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 2010-09-28T04:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/australian-markets-regulator-to-publish-timetable-for-rival-exchanges.html
Australia’s markets regulator
expects to publish a new timeframe for the entry of additional
stock-exchange operators after speaking to Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s government.  The Australian Securities and Investments Commission will
unveil the timetable after determining how the government, re-
elected last month, intends to proceed with plans to license new
operators to rival the nation’s main exchange, run by  ASX Ltd. ,
ASIC Chairman  Tony D’Aloisio  told Bloomberg News in an interview
today at a conference in Kuala Lumpur.  “With Australia having gone through an election process
and new government structure, there has been some time loss,”
D’Aloisio said. “If the government makes the final decision to
proceed, we will work as quickly as we can. We’ll see what we
can do and issue a new timetable as soon as we can to the
market.”  ASIC took over oversight of real-time trading on domestic
licensed markets from ASX on Aug. 1 as part of government
attempts to pave the way for competitors that might help
Australia attract more foreign investment. Chi-X Global Inc., an
electronic-trading-platform, has won preliminary approval to
become the first rival to the nation’s dominant exchange
operator.  A drawn-out election last month saw Gillard’s Labor Party
lose its majority, forcing it into a power-sharing agreement
with the Greens Party and three independents. D’Aloisio said the
election result hadn’t yet made ASIC change its expectation that
a market newcomer could start operating early next year.  Chi-X’s local unit said it’s sticking to its target to
begin operating by the end of the first quarter of 2011.  “We’re hopeful the overall impact of any delays on our
launch date will be minimal,”  Peter Fowler , Chi-X Australia
Pty.’s chief operating officer, said in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 