-- Avenue Capital Said to Be in Talks to Recruit Goldman Sachs Trading Unit
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-09-28T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/avenue-capital-said-to-be-in-talks-to-recruit-goldman-sachs-trading-unit.html
A group of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. 
traders in the U.S. is being pursued by at least three competing
firms including Avenue Capital Group as the investment bank
prepares to break up the unit, according to two people briefed
on the discussions.  Marc Lasry , founder of Avenue Capital, is courting the
Goldman Sachs team run by  Bob Howard  to expand his New York-
based firm beyond its focus on distressed and credit investing,
the people, who asked not to be named because the talks are
private, said yesterday. He’s vying with buyout firm KKR & Co.
and investment bank Perella Weinberg Partners LP, which also are
negotiating with Howard, people with knowledge of the matter
said Sept. 8.  Goldman Sachs is disbanding the principal-strategies
business to comply with new U.S. rules aimed at curbing risk.
Members of the unit, which uses multiple strategies to make bets
with the New York-based firm’s own money, could go their own way
if an agreement isn’t reached soon, said  Robert Olman , president
of Alpha Search Advisory Partners, a recruitment firm based in
Roslyn, New York.  “The longer it takes to work out a deal, the more likely
that members of the team will work something out for themselves
elsewhere,” Olman said.  Lasry, 51, declined to comment, as did  Ed Canaday , a
spokesman for Goldman Sachs.  Avenue Capital was founded by Lasry and  Sonia Gardner  in
1995 and managed $18.8 billion at the end of July, according to
its website. The firm says it has more than 300 employees.  Post-Goldman Options  The Goldman Sachs group is led globally by Hong Kong-based
 Morgan Sze , who may start his own hedge fund focused on Asia,
two people with knowledge of the matter said earlier this month.
Sze in March replaced  Pierre-Henri Flamand , the former global
head who left to set up a London-based hedge fund called Edoma
Capital Partners LLP.  Some of the principal strategies group’s traders and
support staff may get roles at Goldman Sachs or seek jobs
independently, the people said.  BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest asset manager, also
held talks to hire one or more people from the Goldman Sachs
group, a person with knowledge of the talks said earlier this
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  