-- Lazio Exit May Bolster Paladino's Prospects in New York Governor Contest
-- B y   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-09-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/lazio-exit-may-bolster-paladino-s-prospects-in-new-york-governor-contest.html
Rick Lazio ’s exit from the New York
governor’s race as the candidate of the  Conservative Party  may
boost Republican  Carl Paladino , who trails in the polls against
Democrat  Andrew Cuomo .  Lazio, 52, a former four-term congressman from Long Island
who lost the Republican primary to Paladino, had remained the
Conservative Party’s candidate until yesterday. Lazio said that
staying on the ticket would have siphoned votes from Paladino
and made a Cuomo win more likely.  Most voters who cast their primary ballots for Lazio will
throw their support behind Paladino, said  Lee Miringoff ,
director of the Poughkeepsie, New York-based Marist Institute
for Public Opinion.  “Generally, the expectation is that Conservative Party
voters would be more likely to vote for a Republican than a
Democrat,” Miringoff said. Among voters crossing party lines,
however, “Cuomo is getting more Republicans than Paladino is
getting Democrats,” he said.  Voters will choose on Nov. 2 between Paladino, 64, a
Buffalo real-estate developer and favorite of the Tea Party, and
Cuomo, 52, New York’s attorney general and son of former
Governor Mario Cuomo.  In Democrat-dominated New York, with a “fairly significant
cohort” of moderate Republicans and independents, Republican
candidates must be able to speak to the center to win, said  Ken Sherrill , a political-science professor at Hunter College in
Manhattan. Cuomo might lose by failing to generate enough
enthusiasm in the Democratic base, he said in an interview.  Registered Democrats outnumber Republicans in New York,
5.79 million to 2.91 million,  according  to the Board of
Elections.  Chance to Appeal  Paladino will “only succeed if he can appeal to voters who
he’s yet to appeal to,” Sherrill said.  Four polls last week showed Cuomo as the frontrunner. Three
registered leads of at least 16 percentage points, including a
19-percentage point lead among likely voters polled by Marist
College.  Lazio  had the backing of 9 percent, Marist said.  A Sept. 22 Quinnipiac University poll that excluded Lazio
showed Cuomo ahead of Paladino by 6 points. That poll had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.6 percentage points.  Thirty percent of likely voters behind Lazio said they were
“unwavering” in their support, while 28 percent said they were
“somewhat” behind him, Marist’s poll  found . Forty percent said
they may change their decision before Election Day and choose
another candidate, Marist said.  ‘Champion of the Taxpayers’  The Conservative Party will probably vote to nominate
Paladino tomorrow, Chairman Michael Long said. Long said he
intends to campaign for Paladino, and the party will nominate
Lazio for a judgeship.  The 48-year-old  Conservative Party  calls itself “the
champion of the taxpayers” and advocates curtailing excessive
spending, a reduction in personal and corporate income taxes,
and Medicaid and pension reform.  The previous Republican governor, George Pataki, won office
in 1994 thanks to the Conservative Party’s backing. Its 328,605
votes, when added to 2.16 million Republican votes, allowed him
to beat Mario Cuomo.  Bruce Gyory , a political adviser at Corning Place
Consulting in Albany, said in an interview that Lazio’s
withdrawal is good news for Paladino. “It will help Paladino
consolidate” his supporters, he said.  Paladino won an upset in the Sept. 14 primary, beating
Lazio, the candidate selected by Republican Party leaders. He
has promised to clean up Albany with “a baseball bat” and to
cut taxes 10 percent and spending 20 percent in his first year
as governor.  Cuomo has said he is seeking a coalition with lawmakers and
unions to support his plan to freeze taxes and government wages,
and to limit growth of state spending to the rate of inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Esme E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  