-- China's Stocks Fall, Erasing Gains; Developers Drop, Coal Producers Climb
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-29T08:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/baosteel-sinopec-hebei-iron-steel-wuhan-linuo-china-equity-preview.html
China stocks  fell as developers
dropped amid speculation the government will issue new measures
to avert a property bubble, overshadowing gains by energy
producers after manufacturing rose for a second month.  China Vanke Co. dropped to a two-month low after Credit
Suisse Group AG said regulators will implement a property tax.
 China Shenhua Energy Co.  gained the most in three weeks as a
purchasing managers’ index rose to the highest level in five
months in September.  Jiangxi Copper Co. , the nation’s biggest
copper producer, surged 4.2 percent after metal prices rose.  “There’s still caution ahead of holidays and the market is
concerned the government may introduce further tightening
measures,” said  Dai Ming , a fund manager at Shanghai Kingsun
Investment Management & Consulting Co.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  dropped 0.68, or less than 0.1
percent, to close at 2,610.68, erasing an earlier 0.9 percent
advance. Chinese markets will be closed from Oct. 1 to Oct. 7
for National Day holidays. The  CSI 300 Index  slipped 0.2 percent
to 2,874.81.  The Shanghai index has plunged 20 percent this year, the
world’s third-worst performer, as the government imposed
tightening measures ranging from restrictions on multi-house
purchases to a 22 percent cutback on annual new lending by banks.
The gauge has climbed 10 percent from this year’s low on July 5
on signs the nation’s economic slowdown is stabilizing.  Property Tax  An index tracking real-estate companies lost 0.5 percent,
extending yesterday’s 1 percent decline. Vanke, the nation’s
biggest listed developer, fell 1 percent to 7.81 yuan, the
lowest since July 21.  China Merchants Property Development Co. 
slid 1.5 percent to 16.25 yuan. Citichamp Dartong Co., a Fujian-
based developer, sank 1.2 percent to 8.93 yuan.  The government may implement a property tax in some cities
soon with Shanghai, Shenzhen and Chongqing the most likely
candidates, according to Credit Suisse.  Credit Suisse recommended “reducing exposure” to Chinese
property stocks in the near term, saying a tax would hurt real-
estate market sentiment and property stocks’ performance,
analysts led by  Jinsong Du  wrote in a note to clients.  An  index  tracking energy producers jumped 2.2 percent, the
most since Sept. 6 and the biggest advance among the CSI 300’s
10 industry groups. Shenhua, the nation’s largest coal producer,
rose 2.7 percent to 23.26 yuan. China Coal Energy Co., the
second biggest, advanced 2.2 percent to 9.69 yuan.  Datong Coal
Industry Co. , the third biggest, rallied 6.4 percent to 16.41
yuan.  Manufacturing Index  A purchasing managers’ index released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to 52.9 from 51.9 in
August. The data are seasonally adjusted and a reading above 50
indicates an expansion.  A separate government-backed PMI is scheduled to be
released on Oct. 1. The index, released by the National Bureau
of Statistics and the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing,
may rise to 52.5 from an August reading of 51.7, according to
median forecast of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Signs of easing restrictions on power usage also lifted
coal companies. The index of  energy producers  has lost 2.8
percent this month, the second-biggest decline among the 10
industry groups, as the government restricted power to steel
mills and shut small power generators to meet energy usage
targets.  China’s goal is to cut energy consumption per unit gross
domestic product by 20 percent in the five years through 2010.
Energy intensity rose 0.09 percent in the first six months
compared with a year earlier.  Steel Mills  Shanxi province may lift power restrictions on some mills
soon, according to Shanxi Jincheng Steel Holding Group Co., a
closely held steelmaker. Some producers in the city of Wu’an in
Hebei province partially resumed production after 20 days of
stoppage on power restrictions, the China Securities Journal
said, citing unidentified company officials.  Some steelmakers have continued production and even boosted
output amid government measures to curb overcapacity, including
power restrictions, the 21st Century Business Herald reported
today, citing an unidentified person at the China Iron & Steel
Association.  Vale SA, the world’s biggest exporter of iron ore, said
demand in China hasn’t been affected by government measures to
curb overcapacity in its steel industry.  Jiangxi Copper climbed 4.2 percent to 30.13 yuan. Tongling
Nonferrous Metals Group Co., the second biggest, added 1.9
percent to 17.41 yuan.  Jinduicheng Molybdenum Co. , Asia’s
largest producer of the metal used to harden steel, gained 0.3
percent to 17.52 yuan.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals advanced 0.6 percent yesterday. Copper futures
in New York jumped 1.1 percent while gold futures gained 0.7
percent to a record.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , also known as Chalco, rallied
7.5 percent to 11.70 yuan, extending yesterday’s 10 percent jump,
after its parent announced a plan to invest at least 10 billion
yuan ($1.5 billion) in rare earths.  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Richard Frost ,   Allen Wan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  