-- Barnes & Noble Investors Choose Founder Riggio Over Burkle
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2010-09-28T20:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/barnes-noble-investors-choose-founder-riggio-over-burkle.html
Barnes & Noble Inc.’s shareholders
voted to keep Chairman  Leonard Riggio  on the board of the
company he founded, rejecting an attempt by  Ron Burkle’s  Yucaipa
Cos. to shake up the largest U.S. bookstore chain.  Riggio, the  biggest shareholder , was re-elected to the
nine-member board with 53 percent of the vote, people familiar
with the situation said. Eighty-three percent of outstanding
shares were voted, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the results aren’t public. The slate from
Yucaipa, the second-largest holder, included Burkle.  Barnes & Noble is attracting “a lot of interest” as the
board contemplates a possible sale, a process that the proxy
vote delayed, Chief Executive Officer  William Lynch  told
Bloomberg Television today. Burkle and Riggio clashed for a year
on strategy as the company tries to keep 700 superstores
profitable amid the growing popularity of digital books.  “Our job is to get a lot of bidders interested,” said
Riggio, 69, after the meeting. Riggio said he isn’t part of a
group that plans to bid. He declined to comment on Burkle.  Barnes & Noble, based in New York, rose 4 cents to $16.49
at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The
shares have dropped 14 percent this year.  Riggio’s re-election “is not a hindrance” to a sale, said
 Peter Wahlstrom , an analyst with Morningstar in Chicago.
“You’ve got somebody who has been the patriarch of the industry
for 45 years and knows the business in and out. That knowledge
is valuable as the process goes forward.”  Share Amendment Fails  Shareholders rejected Yucaipa’s proposed amendment to
increase the shares allowed to be owned under the company’s
takeover defense, a so-called poison pill. The defense, enacted
last year, caps the amount of shares that can be owned at 20
percent. Yucaipa wanted to increase it to 30 percent.  A shareholder vote on whether to keep the pill, mandated
when it was enacted last year, will take place by Nov. 17. A
date hasn’t been set.  David Golden , a partner at investment firm Revolution LLC,
and  David Wilson , CEO of the Graduate Management Admission
Council, will join Riggio on the board.  A Yucaipa victory would have named as directors  Stephen Bollenbach , chairman of KB Home, and  Michael McQuary , CEO of
Wheego Electric Cars Inc.  With none of his directors on the board, “we don’t have
any comfort that this strategic review by this independent
committee is actually going to be independent and go through the
process that you’d expect to attract bidders,” Burkle said by
telephone. Yucaipa isn’t part of the bidding, he said today.  Focus Beyond Books  Yucaipa may consider making a bid on the condition that
Riggio agreed to vote for the highest offer, Burkle said. Riggio
said today that he would do what’s best for shareholder value.  Barnes & Noble, which released the Nook reader last year to
compete with Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle, will have a difficult
time being successful as a device maker because competitors have
more money and expertise, Burkle said. The company should take a
page from Indigo Books & Music Inc., a Canadian chain, and
revamp stores to sell more non-book items, he said.  The retailer posted a loss excluding one-time items of
$1.02 a share in the three months ended July 31 as sales at
stores open at least 15 months fell 0.9 percent, the 11th
straight drop. The average estimate from analysts was for a loss
of 80 cents a share.  Barnes & Noble overcame Yucaipa receiving the support last
week of Institutional Shareholder Services, often considered the
most influential proxy adviser. Adviser firms Glass Lewis & Co.,
Proxy Governance Inc. and Egan-Jones Ratings Co. backed Barnes &
Noble last week.  “The dissident has given insufficient reason to support
its contest,” Glass Lewis said in its report. “We fail to see
by what measure the dissident’s limited plans offer greater
value to shareholders.”  Purchasing Shares  Burkle started to buy  Barnes & Noble shares  in November
2008 and by January 2009 owned 8.3 percent of the company. After
Barnes & Noble agreed to purchase Barnes & Noble College
Booksellers Inc. from Riggio in August 2009, Burkle criticized
the deal in a letter to Riggio.  The  stock  dropped after the college deal and Yucaipa bought
more shares and said in a  filing  on Nov. 13 that its stake
increased to more than 17 percent. The board adopted a provision
four days later that capped shares acquired by a single
shareholder at 20 percent. Riggio owned about 27 percent at the
time it was adopted and was prohibited from buying more shares.  Burkle, who owned about 19 percent of shares as of May 5,
asked the board unsuccessfully in January to increase the amount
that can be owned to 37 percent. Yucaipa filed a lawsuit in May
to have the provision overturned. Barnes & Noble said Aug. 3 it
was considering a sale of the company. A Delaware judge upheld
the provision on Aug. 12 and a few hours later Yucaipa filed a
proxy to get board seats and raise the share limit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  