-- Berlusconi Stakes Survival on Italian Confidence Vote to Revive Leadership
-- B y   S t e v e   S c h e r e r   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2010-09-28T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/berlusconi-to-stake-survival-of-government-on-vote-reaffirm-leadership.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  will put the survival of his government on the line
to reaffirm his leadership after a party split in July.  Berlusconi, who turns 74 today, will outline the five
priorities for the remaining 30 months of his term in a speech
to the Chamber of Deputies in Rome at 11 a.m. Lawmakers will
then vote beginning at 7 p.m. on supporting the premier. A loss
would bring down his government.  “I’m working on a document that will have to be voted on
by the majority of parliament so that I can move forward,”
Berlusconi said on Sept. 27 in Amelia, Italy.  A July 30 split with  Gianfranco Fini , co-founder of his
People of Liberty party, robbed him of an absolute majority in
the lower house. While Fini has pledged to back the government,
Berlusconi is seeking to broaden his support so that he doesn’t
have to depend on his former ally, 58, who criticized the
premier for not allowing dissent within the party  Berlusconi’s third stint in office is faltering before its
scheduled end in 2013 as the government tries to slash 25
billion euros ($34 billion) from its deficit and must pay back
50 billion euros of bonds that mature this year. The billionaire
premier is trying to head off an early vote that polls show he
may not be able to win because of the dispute with Fini.  Berlusconi’s standing was unchanged this month at 39
percent, matching the lowest level since he was re-elected in
April 2008, according to an IPR Marketing poll that surveys
1,000 adults by telephone and has a 2.5 percent margin of error.  In an Aug. 4 vote in the Chamber, Berlusconi was 17 votes
shy of a majority. He has openly courted opposition members,
some of whom have pledged to switch allegiance. While Fini’s
group has said they’d back Berlusconi’s administration, today’s
vote will test their loyalty.  “Everyone will be forced, between today and tomorrow, to
assume their own responsibilities,” said Osvaldo Napoli, a
deputy whip for Berlusconi’s party in the Chamber.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Scherer  in Rome at 
 scherer@bloomberg.net ;
 Marco Bertacche  at   mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  