-- Bet Australia Will Increase Rates Twice by Year-End, Barclays Capital Says
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-09-28T23:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/bet-australia-will-increase-rates-twice-by-year-end-barclays-capital-says.html
Australia’s central bank will raise
interest rates twice this year to damp price pressures as U.S.
and Asian policy makers keep borrowing costs low to spur growth,
feeding demand for commodities, Barclays Capital said.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens  signaled 
Sept. 20 that he may resume raising rates as the biggest mining
boom in more than a century stokes the economy. Led by iron ore
and coal, commodities are a majority of Australian exports to
countries including China, its largest trading partner. Central
banks from Brazil to South Korea this month indicated they will
curb rate increases amid concerns over slowing global growth.  “You have a lot of liquidity sloshing around in the global
markets and invariably a lot of the time that tends to end up in
commodity prices,” said  Gavin Stacey , an interest-rate
strategist in Sydney at the investment-banking unit of Barclays
Plc. “The RBA increasingly fears commodity demand is going to
keep prices strong and therefore keep the terms-of-trade shock
alive and well in Australia.”  Concerned the Asia-Pacific region’s fourth-biggest economy
is rebounding strongly enough to fuel inflation, Stevens led
Group of 20 policy makers by raising  rates  in six quarter-
percentage-point steps from October.  The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News is for Stevens to end a four-month pause and increase the
cash rate 25 basis points to 4.75 percent when policy makers
meet Oct. 5.  Interbank Futures  Investors would benefit by selling the 30-day interbank
cash rate futures contract for December with markets pricing in
only one 25-basis point increase by year end, Stacey said.
Investors stand to gain if the RBA raises rates twice this year
and yields extend gains on prospects Stevens will boost the
benchmark again in the future, Stacey said.  The December bill future was yielding 4.775 percent as of
9:26 a.m. in Sydney, according to the Sydney Futures Exchange.  Barclays forecasts the RBA will increase its benchmark in
October and November.  “The RBA doesn’t have the luxury of sitting on its hands
and seeing whether or not the worst-case scenario comes into
play or something better materializes in the U.S.,” he said.  The statistics bureau said Sept. 9 that Australia’s  jobless
rate  fell to 5.1 percent, nearly half the U.S.  unemployment 
rate.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and fellow policy
makers hinted last week they are willing to embark on another
round of so-called quantitative easing asset purchases to spur
growth and support prices.  The Bank of Korea unexpectedly left its benchmark rate
unchanged on Sept. 9, the same day that Brazil’s policy makers
signaled borrowing costs are unlikely to rise again in the
foreseeable future with inflation remaining on target.  Officials in emerging markets are indicating a “very low
tolerance for lower growth,” amid concern a slowing in the U.S.
will hurt their exporters, said Stacey. For Australia’s central
bank there’s “a sense that they’re out there on their own
again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 