-- Blockbuster, Bear Island, Thompson, Old GM, Meruelo Maddux: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-09-28T11:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/blockbuster-bear-island-thompson-old-gm-meruelo-bankruptcy.html
Blockbuster Inc. , the movie rental
chain, received interim approval from a bankruptcy judge
yesterday for $45 million in financing from a promised loan that
will grow to $125 million at the final hearing on Oct. 19.  The judge also granted interim authority to pay $28 million
toward the pre-bankruptcy claims of Twentieth Century Fox Home
Entertainment, Warner Home Video Inc. and Sony Pictures Home
Entertainment, which are owed $68.5 million secured by assets of
the Canadian subsidiary. The judge also gave interim approval to
paying another $12.4 million to movie suppliers whose support is
deemed critical.  The financing requires approval of a disclosure statement
explaining the Chapter 11 plan by Jan. 15 and approval of the
reorganization plan itself by March 15. The plan would give all
the new stock to holders of the $630 million in 11.75 percent
senior-secured notes. Holders of the $300 million in 9 percent
subordinated notes are to be given nothing.  The so-called plan-support agreement, negotiated with
holders of 80 percent of the senior notes, calls for offering
warrants for 3 percent of the stock to general unsecured
creditors. The three-year warrants would be based on an equity
value of $630 million.  The new stock is to be listed on the New York Stock
Exchange or the Nasdaq Stock Market.  The $125 million credit for the reorganization is to be
converted to exit financing on confirmation of the plan. The
exit loan will bear interest at 8.5 percentage points more than
the London interbank borrowed rate. Libor can’t be lower than 2
percent. In addition, there can be a $50 million revolving
credit on emergence from Chapter 11.  Dallas-based Blockbuster has 5,600 stores, including 3,300
in the U.S. and the remainder abroad. In the U.S., almost 3,000
of the stores are owned while the rest are franchised.  The Chapter 11 financing requires converting $250 million
of existing secured debt into a new loan with a lien ahead of
existing debt.  The petition listed assets of $1.017 billion against debt
of $1.465 billion. Blockbuster estimated it owes $57 million in
accounts payable in addition to the secured and subordinated
notes.  The Dallas-based company had a $134.1 million net loss for
six months ended July 4 on revenue of $1.728 billion.  The case is In re Blockbuster Inc., 10-14997, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Updates  Bear Island-White Birch Auction Winner to Be Decided by Judge  The bankruptcy judge must decide at a Sept. 30 hearing who
made the best offer to buy Bear Island Paper Co. LLC and its
Canadian parent, White Birch Paper Co.  Two groups of first-lien lenders participated in the
auction last week. The company decided that the best bid came
from the original bidders, a group comprised of Black Diamond
Capital Management LLC, Credit Suisse Group AG, and Caspian
Capital Advisors LLC. They hold 65 percent of the $438 million
in first-lien debt.  A group holding 22 percent of the first-lien debt contend
in a court filing that their offer was the best. The minority
group includes funds managed by BlueMountain Capital Management,
Lombard General Insurance Co. of Canada, Macquarie Americas
Corp., and Wexford Capital LP.  Arguing its offer is the best, the minority group points
out that the collateral for the first-lien lenders doesn’t
include current assets. The minority group, which calls itself
Sixth Ave. Investment Co. LLC, offered $175 million. The group
says its offer allocates $173.4 million to the current assets by
means of $136.7 million cash and $36.7 million in assumed
liabilities. First-lien lenders would receive $35 million cash.  As a result, the Sixth Ave. group says its offer would
produce almost $140 million cash to pay administrative costs
with $44 million available for unsecured creditors.  As explained by the Sixth Ave. group, the Black Diamond bid
includes $90 million allocated to the current assets that have a
going-concern value of $173.4 million. The Black Diamond offer
would provide $4.5 million for fixed assets and a $78 million
credit bid for the Canadian fixed assets.  The Sixth Ave. group contends that the Black Diamond offer,
if approved by the court, would give general unsecured creditors
less than one-half of one percent.  Dune Capital LP and another investor in the second-lien
debt want the judge to approve the Sixth Ave. bid. They say they
hold 61.5 percent of the $100 million in second-lien debt.  Bear Island’s exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11 plan
was extended to Jan. 3.  Based in Nova Scotia, White Birch and U.S. subsidiaries
filed for reorganization simultaneously in the U.S. and Canada
in February. White Birch is the second largest newsprint maker
in North America.  Secured liabilities include $438 million on a first-lien
term loan, $104 million on a second-lien term loan, $50 million
on an asset-backed revolving credit, and $51.5 million on swap
agreements. Trade suppliers are owed $9.5 million. The companies
had $667 million in sales during 2009, with $125 million
attributable to Bear Island. White Birch has three pulp and
paper mills in the province of Quebec. The Bear Island plant is
in Ashland, Virginia. White Birch is controlled by Brant-Allen
Industries, according to Bloomberg Data.  The case is In re Bear Island Paper Co. LLC, 10-31202, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Virginia (Richmond).  Thompson Publishing Wins Approval for $750,000 Interim Loan  Thompson Publishing Holding Co., a publisher of newsletters
and loose-leaf services on regulatory issues, filed under
Chapter 11 on Sept. 21 and three days later secured interim
approval for $750,000 in financing. At an Oct. 12 hearing,
Thompson will be asking the bankruptcy judge in Delaware to give
final approval for a $3 million credit.  The Oct. 12 hearing will also see Thompson asking for
approval of auction and sale procedures where the business would
be sold to first-lien lenders in exchange for secured debt. The
loan agreement requires having approval of the auction process
within 20 days of the Chapter 11 filing. The auction itself must
take place within 45 days of the bankruptcy filing.  At auction, the first bid will come from the first-lien
lenders under contract to buy the business in exchange for $42
million in secured debt. The buyer will assume liabilities on
subscriptions and obligations to employees.  Based in Washington, D.C., Thompson has 300 products and
70,000 subscribers. The company expects revenue will decline
this year to $49 million. Debt includes $122.6 million owing on
first-lien debt with PNC Bank NA serving as agent. Second-lien
creditors, owed $43.5 million, have Ableco Finance LLC as agent.  Controlled by Avista Capital Partners LP, Thompson
generated 74 percent of income from subscription. The company
also arranges conferences and employee training events.  The case is In re Thompson Publishing Holding Co., 10-
13070, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  PharMerica Aims to buy Chem Rx for $70.6 Million  Chem Rx Corp. , the third-largest provider of institutional
pharmacy services in the U.S., has a contract to sell the assets
after more than four months in Chapter 11.  Over the weekend,  PharMerica Corp.  signed a definitive
agreement to buy the business for $70.6 million plus the
assumption of specified liabilities.  The bankruptcy judge scheduled a hearing for Oct. 4 to rule
on proposed auction and sale procedures. If adopted by the
judge, competing bids would be due initially by Oct. 25,
followed by an auction on Oct. 27. A hearing to approve the sale
would take place around Oct. 28.  Chem RX said it signed 65 prospective buyers to
confidentiality agreements. The last round of bidding had eight
potential buyers. PharMerica, the so-called stalking horse,
operates 90 institutional pharmacies in 41 states.  Chem Rx filed under Chapter 11 on May 11 after first-lien
lenders owed $103 million were seizing the Long Beach, New York-
based company’s income. The first-lien debt had been in default
since early 2009. Other liabilities include $37 million owing on
a second lien and $8.3 million in subordinated debt held by
affiliates of insiders. CIBC World Markets Corp. is agent for
the lenders on the first- and second-lien loans. The petition
listed assets of $170 million against debt totaling $178
million.  The case is In re Chem Rx Corp., 10-11567, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  CBGB Trademark to be Used in Guitar Hero 6 Game  CBGB Holdings LLC , the owner of trademarks associated with
what was a music club at Bowery and Bleecker Streets in
Manhattan, has approval to grant a non-exclusive license for use
of the trademarks in the sixth iteration of the video game
 Guitar Hero . The game is developed by  Activision Blizzard Inc.   Although the license will bring in only $30,000, CBGB
explained how using the trademark appearing in the new version
of the game will give “vital” exposure to the “12-25
demographic.”  The club was opened in 1973 by Hillel Kristal, known as
Hilly. The name is an acronym for Country, Blue Grass, and
Blues. It closed in October 2006, less than a year before
Kristal’s death.  Kristal’s estate sold the CBGB trademarks and other
intellectual property to the company that filed under Chapter 11
in New York in June. The buyer paid $3.5 million, with $1.11
million in cash and the remainder covered by a secured note with
a lien on the assets.  Kristal’s estate claims the debt is now $2.58 million.
Ownership of the assets is being contested between Kristal’s
heirs and his former wife.  CBGB’s bankruptcy schedules listed assets of $133,500
against debt totaling $3.59 million.  The case is In re CBGB Holdings LLC, 10-13130, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Surefil, Shampoo Maker, Sold for $4.5 Million  Surefil LLC , a contract manufacturer of shampoos,
conditioners and mouthwash, completed the sale of the assets
last week to a company led by  Bill Currie , the chairman of
 Universal Forest Products Inc. , the company said in a statement.
The sale for $4.5 million was approved this month by the
bankruptcy court.  Surefil’s formal lists of assets and debt showed property
with a value of $5.1 million against liabilities totaling $19.3
million. The secured lender Huntington National Bank was owed
$11.6 million.  The Grand Rapids, Michigan-based company filed under
Chapter 11 in June 2009 in its hometown.  The case is In re Surefil LLC, 09-06914, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Western District Michigan (Grand Rapids).  Meruelo Maddux Told by Judge to Withdraw Inaccurate Statement  Meruelo Maddux Properties Inc.  was officially instructed by
the bankruptcy judge last week to withdraw a Sept. 9 press
release. After holding hearings, the judge concluded that the
release contained “substantial inaccuracies” and was an
“improper plan solicitation in violation” of the Bankruptcy
Code.  Shortly after the release was issued, the official
creditors’ committee accused the Los Angeles-based developer and
manager of commercial and multifamily residential property of
making “inaccurate and materially” false statements. The
company already withdrew the release at the behest of the judge.  The judge is in the process of approving disclosure
statements explaining three competing reorganization plans. The
first, for the plan proposed by lenders Legendary Investors
Group No. 1 LLC and East West Bank, was approved by the judge
last week.  The company itself has a plan, as do shareholders
Charlestown Capital Advisors LLC and Hartland Asset Management
Corp. The committee previously recommended that creditors turn
down the company plan. The creditors’ committee previously said
that the shareholders’ plan would give the reorganized company
more liquidity from a $30 million cash infusion at confirmation.  The deadline for voting and the date for a confirmation
hearing haven’t yet been set, a court filing says.  The bankruptcy court in Woodland Hills, California, began
allowing other plans in May. The Chapter 11 petition filed in
March 2009 listed assets of $682 million against debt totaling
$342 million.  The case is In re Meruelo Maddux Properties Inc., 09-13356,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District California (Woodland
Hills).  Old GM Gets Voting Exclusivity Extension Until March 29  Old  General Motors Corp. , now formally named Motors
Liquidation Co., sought and received an extension until March 29
of the exclusive right to solicit votes on a Chapter 11 plan.  The bankruptcy judge also authorized old GM to vote in
favor of an amendment to new GM’s corporate charter designed to
preserve $42 billion of net operating losses that went to new GM
when it bought old GM’s business.  If the charter amendment weren’t to occur until after an
initial public offering, old GM said that the prohibitions on
accumulating additional stock would be more restrictive.  Old GM filed a liquidating Chapter 11 plan in August. The
hearing for approval of the explanatory disclosure statement is
scheduled for Oct. 21. The company previously said it hopes the
confirmation hearing for approval of the plan will occur two
months later. A trust for unsecured creditors would distribute
stock and warrants in new GM that resulted from the sale of the
core business last year. To read about the plan, click here for
the Sept. 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The sale of the core business brought in 10 percent of the
stock of the new GM plus warrants for 15 percent. The warrants
will have value if the new company is profitable enough to raise
the company’s value to specified levels. New GM, formally named
 General Motors Co. , is 60.8 percent owned by the U.S.
government.  Old GM began the largest manufacturing reorganization in
history by filing under Chapter 11 on June 1, 2009. The sale was
completed on July 10, 2009. GM listed assets of $82.3 billion
against debt totaling $172.8 billion.  The case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 