-- BMW Extends Chief Reithofer's Contract by Five Years to 2016
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2010-09-29T12:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/bmw-said-to-extend-ceo-reithofer-s-employment-contract-to-2016.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG 
extended Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer ’s contract to
2016, leaving him to steer the largest luxury-car maker to its
goal of boosting deliveries by half in the next decade.  BMW’s supervisory board approved the new five-year contract
at a meeting today, the Munich-based automaker said in an e-
mailed statement. Reithofer, 54, would become the longest-
serving top executive at BMW since  Eberhard von Kuenheim  led the
carmaker from 1970 to 1993.  Reithofer took over as CEO in September 2006. He trimmed
the payroll by 11,000 workers, set a goal of reducing costs by 6
billion euros ($8.2 billion) by 2012 and pushed the development
of electric cars. He also guided BMW through the financial
crisis and recession  without losing money  by quickly halting
production to conserve cash and prop up car prices.  “BMW is on top right now; the fruits of Reithofer’s
efforts over the past few quarters are currently being hauled
in,” said  Frank Biller , an analyst with Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart, Germany, who has a “hold” rating on
BMW shares.  Surging demand in China and a recovery in the U.S. have
helped BMW rebound this year. BMW forecasts deliveries will rise
about 10 percent to at least 1.4 million vehicles after a 10
percent drop to 1.29 million in 2009. BMW may add a new factory
as it expands models to meet its target of selling 2 million
cars by 2020, Reithofer said in an interview this month.  Best Performer  “This step will provide continuity over the years ahead and
ensure trust and constructive cooperation between the
supervisory board and the board of management,” Chairman  Joachim Milberg  said in the statement.  German supervisory boards typically decide on whether to
keep their CEOs a year before their contracts expire. The
announcement comes as Reithofer is scheduled to attend the Paris
Motor Show this week, where BMW plans to premiere the revamped
X3 sport-utility vehicle and show a 6 Series coupe concept.  BMW  added  98 cents, or 1.9 percent, to 51.65 euros at 1:37
p.m. on the Frankfurt exchange. The shares have jumped 62
percent this year, giving the carmaker a market value of 32.8
billion euros and making BMW the best performer on Germany’s
benchmark DAX 30 Index.  “His biggest challenge over the next few years will be to
manage the shift away from a reliance on oil, through
electrification and cleaner engines,” Biller said.  Saab Deal  BMW signed an agreement today with Saab Automobile to
supply the Swedish manufacturer with engines starting in 2012.
Saab, owned by  Spyker Cars NV , will purchase 4-cylinder, 1.6
liter turbocharged gasoline engines, which will be adapted for
Saab’s next-generation vehicles.  Reithofer joined BMW in 1987 after studying machine tools
and operating science under Milberg, who was previously a BMW
CEO. After starting in maintenance planning, Reithofer managed
BMW’s factory in Spartanburg, South Carolina, before being named
head of production in 2000.  The executive still lives in Penzberg, the former coal-
mining town about 50 kilometers (31 miles) south of Munich.
Residing a short distance from the house where he was born, he’s
stayed in the area to be close to family and the Alps, where he
unwinds by skiing and mountain biking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Paris via 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 