-- Boeing Says Rolls Has Remedy for 787 Engine Failure
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-09-28T03:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/boeing-rolls-royce-to-meet-this-week-over-engine-blowout.html
Boeing Co.  said Rolls-Royce Group
Plc has a remedy for the August blowout of a jet engine for the
787 Dreamliner aircraft and the two companies will discuss it in
meetings in Seattle this week.  A Rolls-Royce team will brief Boeing on a plan that
supports the latest target for delivering the delayed Dreamliner
at the beginning of next year, Boeing Commercial Airplanes
President  Jim Albaugh  said.  “Rolls is stepping up, and we’ll take a hard look at the
recovery plan tomorrow, and based on what they told us, I think
we’ll be OK,” Albaugh said in an interview today.  Boeing delayed the 787’s first delivery last month for the
sixth time, saying Rolls-Royce wasn’t going to be able to supply
an engine needed to finish flight testing. A $17 million Trent
1000 blew up during testing on Aug. 2, forcing Rolls-Royce to
close the plant for repairs to the Derby, England, site used to
test engines for the 787 and the Airbus SAS A350.  “They knew that they had the potential for what happened,
and they have the fixes in to address that,” Albaugh said.  Rolls-Royce competes with  General Electric Co.  to supply
engines for the Dreamliner, which is running almost three years
behind schedule because of problems with the materials and new
manufacturing system being used. The 787 is the first airliner
with a fuselage and wings made of composites instead of aluminum.  Power Surge  Boeing, based in Chicago with commercial headquarters in
Seattle, parked one of its five Dreamliner test jets earlier
this month to replace one of its two Rolls-Royce engines that
had experienced a power surge before takeoff. Albaugh said a fix
is already in place to address the issue, which Boeing has said
was unrelated to the engine blowout.  Separately, a decision on a new engine for the 737 single-
aisle jet, Boeing’s best-selling aircraft, may come next year
instead of this year as planned, Albaugh said. Most customers
don’t think the business case for a new engine makes sense and
would prefer that Boeing instead develop a new airplane toward
the end of this decade, he said.  “We’ll make a decision when we’re very comfortable with
what the market wants,” Albaugh said. “If that’s this year,
that’s fine, or if it’s next year -- we just want to make sure
we get it right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 