-- Boeing Scrutinizes Rolls Recovery Plan for 787 Dreamliner Jets
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-09-28T21:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/boeing-says-we-ll-be-ok-with-rolls-royce-787-recovery-plan.html
Boeing Co.  will begin poring over
plans today from  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  aimed at avoiding further
delays to the 787 Dreamliner following the blowout of an engine
in testing last month, the head of its jetliner division said.  A team from London-based Rolls-Royce will deliver a
briefing today and tomorrow in Seattle, where the 787 is built,
Boeing Commercial Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh  said in an
interview yesterday. The proposed steps should allow the
aircraft to enter service as planned early next year, he said.  “Rolls is stepping up, and we’ll take a hard look at the
recovery plan, and based on what they told us, I think we’ll be
OK,” Albaugh said. “They knew that they had the potential for
what happened, and they have the fixes in to address that.”  Boeing delayed the 787’s first delivery for the sixth time
on Aug. 27, saying Rolls-Royce couldn’t supply an engine to
finish flight testing, 3 1/2 weeks after a $17 million Trent
1000 blew up. The biggest risk to the jet’s development probably
now comes from the turbines being supplied by Rolls, JPMorgan
Securities analyst  Joseph Nadol  said on Sept. 20.  Rolls-Royce competes with  General Electric Co.  to produce
engines for the Dreamliner, which is running almost three years
behind schedule because of problems with the new manufacturing
system and materials used. The 787 is the first airliner with a
fuselage and wings made of composites instead of aluminum.  Power Surge  Boeing, based in Chicago, parked one of five Dreamliner
test planes earlier this month to replace one of its two Rolls-
Royce engines following a power surge before a takeoff in New
Mexico. Albaugh said a fix is already in place to address that
issue, which was unrelated to the engine blowout.  In the Aug. 2 test, debris was flung out at high speed and
pierced the engine housing. That engine had incorporated changes
from the version being used on test jets currently, and Boeing
had been planning to use it on its ninth Dreamliner, intended
for Japan’s All Nippon Airways, said  Lori Gunter , a Boeing
spokeswoman.  That plane and engine are intended to be in the
configuration that will be delivered to customers and will be
used to verify some final function, reliability and extended-
operations tests necessary before the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration grants approval for passenger use, Gunter said.  Rolls-Royce has since supplied other engines for the ninth
Dreamliner, she said.  Rolls-Royce Confirmation  “We would expect to hear something in the next couple of
months from Rolls to confirm that the technical issues have been
dealt with,” said  Edward Stacey , an analyst at Execution
Holdings Ltd. in London who has a “sell” rating on the stock.  A spokesman for Rolls-Royce didn’t respond to voice-mail
messages seeking comment.  Boeing rose 63 cents to $64.52 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Rolls-Royce increased 0.4
percent to 591.5 pence in London, extending gains this year to
24 percent.  Following the blowout of the Trent 1000 last month, Rolls-
Royce was forced to close the testbed in Derby, England, for
repairs. The site is also used to trial engines for Airbus SAS’s
rival A350 model.  The Trent 1000 should still become a “blockbuster”
product for Rolls-Royce by 2015, said  Virginie Vacca , an analyst
at Standard & Poor’s in London.  Before Boeing’s August statement on the latest 787 setback,
the company had said only that the project might be delayed
further by flaws in horizontal stabilizers made by Italy’s
 Alenia Aeronautica SpA . The plane was originally supposed to
enter service in May 2008.  New 737 Engine?  Separately, a decision on a new engine for the 737 single-
aisle jet, Boeing’s bestselling aircraft, could slip into 2011
instead of this year as planned, Albaugh said.  Most customers don’t think the business case for a new
engine makes sense and would prefer that Boeing instead develop
a new plane toward the end of this decade, he said.  “We’ll make a decision when we’re very comfortable with
what the market wants,” Albaugh said. “If that’s this year,
that’s fine, or if it’s next year -- we just want to make sure
we get it right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  