-- Boeing, Carnival, JetBlue, DineEquity, HP: U.S. Equity Preview
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-09-29T13:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/boeing-green-mountain-hp-mgm-wynn-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses, and prices are as of 8:50 a.m.  Gaming, casinos and luxury hotel stocks were rated by
analyst Carlo Santarelli at Wells Fargo Securities LLC, who
initiated new coverage of the industry.  Ameristar Casinos Inc.  (ASCA US),  Boyd Gaming Corp.  (BYD
US),  Isle of Capri Casinos Inc.  (ISLE US),  International Game
Technology  (IGT US),  Las Vegas Sands Corp.  (LVS US),  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd.  (MPEL US),  MGM Resorts International  (MGM
US),  Pinnacle Entertainment Inc.  (PNK US) and  Scientific Games
Corp.  (SGMS US) were rated “market perform.” Boyd Gaming Corp.
rose 2.1 percent to $7.22. Las Vegas Sands Corp. advanced 0.1
percent to $35.61. MGM Resorts International rose 2 percent to
$11.67.  Bally Technologies Inc.  (BYI US),  Penn National Gaming Inc. 
(PENN US) and  Wynn Resorts Ltd.  (WYNN US) were rated
“outperform.” Wynn Resorts Ltd. fell 0.3 percent to $87.42.  American Greetings Corp.  (AM US): The second-largest U.S.
maker of greeting cards posted second-quarter adjusted per-share
earnings of 29 cents, which missed the 38 cents estimated by
analysts. Second-quarter revenue was $342.8 million, compared
with the $357 million estimated by one analyst surveyed by
Bloomberg.  AU Optronics Corp.  (AUO US) rose 3.3 percent to $10.30. The
company climbed to the highest in four months in Taipei trading
after the Economic Daily News reported its subsidiary Cando
Corp. may get orders for a new version of Apple Inc.’s iPhones.  Boeing Co.  (BA US) gained 1.1 percent to $65.25. The
second-largest U.S. defense contractor received a contract for
124 F/A-18 fighter jets valued at $5.3 billion, the Pentagon
said on its website.  Carnival Corp.  (CCL US) advanced 1.5 percent to $38.90. The
world’s biggest cruise-line operator was upgraded to “buy” by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Chelsea Therapeutics International Ltd.  (CHTP US) declined
5.2 percent to $5.25. The biotechnology company said it plans to
offer $35 million in shares. Additional stock can dilute the
value of existing shares.       CryoLife Inc.  (CRY US): The supplier of cadaver tissue for
implantation said it has entered into a worldwide distribution
agreement and a manufacturing agreement with Starch Medical Inc.
for PerClot, a hemostatic agent used in surgery.  DineEquity Inc.  (DIN US): The restaurant company said it’s
signing three non-binding letters of intent to sell 86 of its
Applebee’s Neighborhood Grill & Bar restaurants. It will sell 36
in St. Louis, 20 in Virginia and 30 in the Washington, D.C.,
market.  Discovery Communications Inc.  (DISCK US): The highest price
since July 2005. The owner of the Discovery Channel and Animal
Planet cable channels was cut to “hold” from “buy” at
Gabelli & Co.  Endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings Inc.  (ENDP US): The
drugmaker, which agreed yesterday to buy Qualitest
Pharmaceuticals for about $1.2 billion in cash, was raised to
“outperform” at Oppenheimer Holdings Inc.  Family Dollar Stores Inc.  (FDO US) rose 4.5 percent to
$45.27. The discount retailer said it may buy back up to $750
million in shares. The company’s fourth-quarter per-share
earnings were 56 cents, beating analysts’ estimates of 51 cents.
The Matthews, North Carolina-based retailer said its first-
quarter 2011 per-share earnings will be 55 cents to 60 cents.
Analysts estimate 57 cents a share for the first quarter.  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc.  (GMCR US) fell 14
percent to $31.90. The maker of coffee and Keurig brewing
machines said the Securities and Exchange Commission is
conducting an inquiry and requested documents that may be
related to the company’s “revenue recognition practices” and
its relationship with a vendor.  Hewlett-Packard Co.  (HPQ US) gained 1 percent to $42.02.
The world’s largest computer maker expects 2011 earnings
excluding costs of $5.05 to $5.15 a share on sales of $131.5
billion to $133.5 billion, interim Chief Executive Officer
Cathie Lesjak said at an investor meeting. Analysts had
predicted sales of $131.7 billion and earnings of $5.01 a share,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  JetBlue Airways Corp.  (JBLU US) rose 0.3 percent to $6.55.
The seventh-biggest domestic airline’s CEO Dave Barger said the
company doesn’t need to merge with another carrier to compete
with  Southwest Airlines Co. , the Associated Press reported,
citing an internal memo. Barger said growing too fast through an
acquisition could jeopardize financial stability and that
Southwest’s deal with AirTran Holdings Inc. doesn’t change
JetBlue’s plans to grow in Boston and the Caribbean, the AP
said.  Live Nation Entertainment Inc.  (LYV US) advanced 3.2
percent to $10.16. Barry Diller said he plans to resign as
chairman of the company that combined the world’s largest
concert promoter and ticketing companies in a merger eight
months ago.  ModusLink Global Solutions Inc.  (MLNK US): The supply-chain
management firm said its fourth-quarter loss from continuing
operations widened to 58 cents a share from a loss of 9 cents a
share a year earlier.  Raymond James Financial Inc.  (RJF US) rose 2 percent to
$25.91. The firm was raised to “neutral” at Ticonderoga
Securities LLC.  Seattle Genetics Inc.  (SGEN US) gained 3.3 percent to
$14.58. The drugmaker was given a new “buy” rating at
Jefferies Group Inc.  Standard Microsystems Corp.  (SMSC US) fell 7.7 percent to
$20.75. The semiconductor manufacturer forecast earnings per
share of no more than 43 cents for the third quarter. Analysts
on average had estimated earnings of 45 cents, according to a
survey by Bloomberg.  ZymoGenetics Inc.  (ZGEN US) advanced 0.2 percent to $9.77.
The drugmaker reported increased survival rates in its study of
a drug for treating melanoma patients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 