-- Boeing, General Dynamics Get High Court Hearing in Stealth-Fighter Dispute
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-09-28T16:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/boeing-general-dynamics-get-hearing-in-a-12-case-update1-.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court , accepting a
case that will affect government secrecy claims, agreed to
review a ruling that could force  Boeing Co.  and  General Dynamics
Corp  to pay $3 billion in a dispute over a canceled Navy
aircraft contract.  The justices today said they will intervene in a 19-year-
old legal dispute over the Pentagon’s 1991 termination of the A-
12 Avenger stealth fighter aircraft program. A federal appeals
court said the government was justified in canceling the
contract because the companies weren’t living up to their
obligations.  A victory for the companies could wipe out the government’s
demand for the return of $1.35 billion in payments, plus the
interest that has accrued over two decades. More broadly, the
case could affect the government’s use of the so-called state
secrets privilege, which Boeing and General Dynamics say
unfairly prevented them from mounting a defense in their case.  “By invoking the state-secrets privilege, the government
has not simply taken some evidence out of this case,” General
Dynamics argued in its appeal. “Rather, it has entirely
prevented the contractors from raising a critical defense.”  The A-12 was one of the largest defense procurement fiascos
in U.S. history. The plane, designed to penetrate heavily
defended locations, never made it into production in spite of
years of development.  Navy Planes  In 1988, General Dynamics and McDonnell Douglas signed a
contract to build eight of the planes for the Navy at a total
target price of $4.4 billion. Three years later, the Navy and
then-Defense Secretary  Dick Cheney  declared the company in
default and canceled the contract.  The two sides have traded blame. The government says the
companies weren’t able to produce the aircraft as designed on
schedule.  In the weeks leading up to the termination, the companies
“adhered to the position that they could not build the A-12
aircraft for the agreed-upon price, under the agreed-upon
schedule and to the agreed-upon specifications,” Acting U.S.
Solicitor General  Neal Katyal  told the Supreme Court.  The state secrets issue stems from the companies’
contention that the delay was caused by the government’s refusal
to share essential stealth technology.  Military Secrets  The government argued that the companies couldn’t press
that argument because litigating the issue would require the
disclosure of military secrets and jeopardize national security.
Two lower courts agreed.  The companies don’t directly challenge the assertion of the
state secrets privilege. They instead say the government’s
invocation of the privilege should have precluded it from
claiming default.  The Obama administration has drawn fire from human rights
advocates for using the state secrets privilege in other
contexts, including lawsuits by suspected terrorists who say
they were subjected to torture.  Two business trade groups, including the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, joined Boeing and General Dynamics in urging Supreme
Court review. Boeing, a Chicago-based aerospace company,
inherited the litigation through its 1997 purchase of McDonnell
Douglas Corp.  The companies at one point stood to recover $1.2 billion,
plus interest. A trial judge awarded that sum in 1998 after
ruling that the government improperly terminated the contract.
An appeals court panel overturned that ruling.  The two companies would split any liability in the case.
Boeing, which set aside $350 million in 1990, said in a July
regulatory filing that the company ultimately could take $1.7
billion in pre-tax charges. General Dynamics, which is based in
Falls Church, Virginia, said its after-tax charge could be $805
million, or $2.07 per share.  The cases are General Dynamics v. United States, 09-1298,
and Boeing v. United States, 09-1302.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 