-- Bank of America Sells $89.3 Million of Structured Notes Tied to Gold Price
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2010-09-28T17:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/bofa-sells-89-3-million-of-structured-notes-linked-to-gold.html
Bank of America Corp., the biggest
underwriter of gold-linked notes in the U.S. this year, sold
$89.3 million of bonds linked to the precious metal that reached
a record high today.  The lender sold $29.8 million of five-year structured notes
that pay any gains in the spot price of gold, with returns
capped at 52 percent, according to a prospectus filed yesterday
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The Charlotte,
North Carolina-based bank also underwrote $59.5 million of gold-
linked notes issued by Svensk Exportkredit AB, or SEK, which
finances Sweden’s exports, according to a separate filing.  Buyers of the securities are betting that a rally that has
pushed gold futures up 19 percent this year will continue. The
contracts, which are headed for a 10th straight annual gain,
reached an all-time high today of $1,309.20 an ounce on the
Comex in New York.  Investors in the five-year notes receive their principal
back at maturity whether gold rises or falls. The securities
issued by SEK, which mature in 14 months, pay three times any
increase in the price of the metal. If gold falls, investors
lose a percentage of their principal equal to the decline.
Returns on the 14-month notes are capped at 20.2 percent.  Gold prices are not in a “bubble,” said  Graham Birch , a
former manager of BlackRock Inc.’s BGF World Gold Fund, at the
London Bullion Market Association conference in Berlin
yesterday. Gold futures for December delivery rose $8.80, or 0.7
percent, to $1,307.40 an ounce at 11:46 a.m. on the Comex.  Bank of America has underwritten $409.5 million of gold-
linked notes in the U.S. this year, more than all other banks
combined, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank also
leads with $8.8 billion of structured-note offerings overall.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zeke Faux  in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 