-- BP Sells $3.5 Billion of Bonds After Debt Swaps Rally
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-09-28T22:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/bp-sells-3-5-billion-of-debt-in-first-offering-since-gulf-of-mexico-spill.html
  BP Plc  sold $3.5 billion of bonds
in its first debt sale since a rig explosion caused an estimated
4.9 million barrels of crude oil to spew into the  Gulf of Mexico 
in the largest offshore U.S. spill in history.  The energy company sold $2 billion of 3.125 percent, 5-year
notes that yield 195 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, and $1.5 billion of 4.5 percent, 10-year debt at a
spread of 210 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The debt was issued through BP Capital Markets Plc,
the data show.  BP has regained its investment-grade status in the eyes of
credit investors more than two months after containing the leak,
which was caused by an April 20 explosion on a rig in the Gulf.
Credit-default swap prices, which soared to levels implying the
debt was junk-rated after the explosion, last week declined to
imply a rating of Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, the lowest
step of investment-grade.  “It obviously proves access,” said Jason Brady, a
managing director at Thornburg Investment Management in  Santa
Fe ,  New Mexico , which oversees more than $65 billion, including
BP bonds. It shows, “‘Look, we can come to the debt markets and
get money, we’re going to be able to work our way through this
thing,’” he said.  Credit-default swaps protecting against losses on BP debt
for five years declined 86.2 basis points this month to 186.1
basis points as of 5:03 p.m. in New York, according to data
provider CMA. The contracts have decreased from at least 631
basis points on June 16, CMA data show.  Credit Swaps  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The sale is part of BP’s regular accessing of credit
markets and the timing isn’t related to the Gulf spill, BP
spokesman  Robert Wine  said. He earlier indicated the offering
would be about $2 billion, similar in size to a sale in August
2009.  “From a pricing perspective, they’re certainly not being
priced as a single A industrial,” Brady said. “They’re coming
to market at a price which I would say is indicative of a mid-to
low BBB company.”  Restrictive Covenants  Spreads on BBB rated company debt were 235 basis points
yesterday, compared with the 166 basis-point spread on A rated
company bonds, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds fell to 3.69
percent yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. Corporate Master index, the lowest in data going back to
Oct. 31, 1986.  BP previously sold 3.625 percent, five-year, U.S. dollar-
denominated notes in May 2009 at a spread of 165 basis points
over benchmarks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company last issued debt on March 3, denominated in Australian
dollars, the data show.  Its last U.S. dollar-denominated sale was in August 2009,
when the company sold $750 million of 2-year, 1.55 percent notes
that priced to yield 40 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, and $1.25 billion of debt in a reopening of 3.875
percent notes due in 2015, the data show.  The terms on the debt being offered don’t include change of
control protection or “meaningful” restrictive covenants,
Alexander Diaz-Matos, an analyst at Covenant Review wrote in a
note today. Covenant Review is a research firm that analyzes
corporate bonds’ investor safeguards.  ‘Macondo Accident’  “Around the time of the Macondo, there was a lot of hair-
pulling about where bondholders would be in terms of a potential
recovery against BP and in a lawsuit where they’d fall,” he
said, referring to the name of the well.  “Here we are a few months later and BP continues to issue
debt with the same terms and bondholders are still subject to
the same structural subordination issues as they were before the
accident.” It makes “it seem as if the Macondo accident never
happened,” he said.  Moody’s grades the company’s debt A2, four levels above the
implied rating from its capital markets research group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  