-- BP Plans $3.5 Billion Bond Sale, First Since Spill
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   H y d e
-- 2010-09-28T16:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/bp-to-sell-five-year-10-year-bonds-in-dollars-bankers-say.html
  BP Plc  is planning its first bond
sale since a rig explosion caused an estimated 4.9 million
barrels of crude oil to spew into the  Gulf of Mexico  in the
largest offshore U.S. spill in history.  The energy company may sell as much as $3.5 billion of debt
as soon as today, according to a person familiar with the
offering. London-based BP plans to issue 5- and 10-year notes
through BP Capital Markets Plc, it said today in a regulatory
filing that didn’t specify the sale’s size or timing.  BP has regained its investment-grade status in the eyes of
credit investors more than two months after containing the leak,
which was caused by an April 20 explosion on a rig in the Gulf.
Credit-default swap prices, which soared to levels implying the
debt was junk-rated after the explosion, last week declined to
imply a rating of Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, the lowest
step of investment-grade.  “It obviously proves access,” said Jason Brady, a
managing director at Thornburg Investment Management in  Santa
Fe ,  New Mexico , which oversees more than $65 billion, including
BP bonds. It shows, “‘Look, we can come to the debt markets and
get money, we’re going to be able to work our way through this
thing,’” he said.  Credit-default swaps protecting against losses on BP debt
for five years have declined to 191.6 basis points as of 8:37
a.m. in New York, from at least 631 basis points on June 16,
according to data provider CMA.  Credit Swaps  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The sale is part of BP’s regular accessing of credit
markets and the timing isn’t related to the Gulf spill, BP
spokesman  Robert Wine  said. He earlier indicated the offering
would be about $2 billion, similar in size to a sale in August
2009.  BP’s $2 billion of 5-year notes may yield 195 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries, and its $1.5 billion of
10-year debt may pay a spread of 210 basis points, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
public. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “From a pricing perspective, they’re certainly not being
priced as a single A industrial,” Brady said. “They’re coming
to market at a price which I would say is indicative of a mid-to
low BBB company.”  Restrictive Covenants  Spreads on BBB rated company debt were 235 basis points
yesterday, compared with the 166 basis-point spread on A rated
company bonds, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds fell to 3.69
percent yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. Corporate Master index, the lowest in data going back to
Oct. 31, 1986.  BP last sold five-year, U.S. dollar-denominated notes in
May 2009 at a spread of 165 basis points over benchmarks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company last issued
debt on March 3, denominated in Australian dollars, the data
show.  Its last U.S. dollar-denominated sale was in August 2009,
when the company sold $750 million of 2-year, 1.55 percent notes
that priced to yield 40 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, and $1.25 billion of debt in a reopening of 3.875
percent notes due in 2015, the data show.  The terms on the debt being offered don’t include change of
control protection or “meaningful” restrictive covenants,
Alexander Diaz-Matos, an analyst at Covenant Review wrote in a
note today. Covenant Review is a research firm that analyzes
corporate bonds’ investor safeguards.  It makes “it seem as if the Macondo accident never
happened,” he said, referring to the name of the well.  Moody’s grades the company’s debt A2, four levels above the
implied rating from its capital markets research group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Hyde at 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  