-- Brazil Not Raising Inflow Tax Right Now, Mantega Says
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2010-09-28T23:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/brazil-not-raising-inflow-tax-right-now-mantega-says-update1-.html
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the government doesn’t plan to increase its tax on
capital inflows “at this time.” His comments come after a
published report that the levy would be doubled following next
month’s election.  “There is no plan to change the IOF,” Mantega told
reporters in Brasilia. “Of course all possibilities are open,
but only if the currency behaves in an inappropriate way.”  Guilherme Barros, a columnist at IG news services, wrote
today that the tax would be increased after Oct. 3 presidential
elections in a bid to curb the real’s gains. He didn’t say how
he obtained the information. President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da
Silva’s administration is trying to stem a four-month rally in
the real, which has advanced 36 percent since the end of 2008,
the second-best performance among emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said today that
Brazil was considering higher inflow taxes as other countries
adopt policies to weaken their currencies, potentially putting
Brazilian exporters at a disadvantage by making their product
more expensive in dollar terms.  “We should have a balanced global economy,” Meirelles
told reporters in London. “We can’t have some countries having
their currencies weakened. Evidently, we’re going to have a few
countries paying the price for that.”  Meirelles said an increase in taxes was an “open
possibility” and that the Finance Ministry is responsible for a
final decision.  Yields Jump  Yields in interest-rate futures contracts due in January
2021 jumped 0.11 percentage point to 11.65 percent on
speculation a tax may discourage foreign investments in local
assets. The real gained 0.2 percent to 1.7079 per U.S. dollar.
after the Australian dollar and South African rand.  “The government is looking at exchange rates,” said
 Felipe Brandao , director of emerging markets at ICAP Brasil SA,
the fourth-largest currency broker in Brazil’s futures exchange.
“But this may affect interest rates, because foreign investors
are taking part more and more in Brazilian debt.”  Mantega said yesterday in an event in Sao Paulo the
government will buy all “excess dollars” entering Brazil.  “We are experiencing a currency war,” he said.
“Devaluing currencies artificially is a global strategy.”  Brazil’s government imposed a 2 percent tax on foreign
purchases of equities and fixed-income securities in October to
fend off what Mantega considered “excess speculation”
involving the real.  ‘Currency Problem’  “There is a very serious currency problem, which should be
addressed,” Meirelles said today. The central bank and the
Finance Ministry “agree that’s not something Brazil should pay
the price for.”  The central bank bought $5.9 billion in the first 12 days
of September, the most in 11 months, according to  Altamir Lopes ,
head of the bank’s economic department. The bank has purchased
dollars every day since July 9, swelling its foreign reserves to
a record $274 billion.  The bank has been boosting its intervention in the foreign-
exchange market to offset an inflow of dollars from investors
participating in Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s $70 billion share
offering.  “The Petrobras share sale was bringing some risks,”
Mantega said today. “Now it’s being digested, mainly through
dollar purchases by the central bank in the spot markets. Each
problem has a way to be solved.”  Meirelles said the effect of the inflow of dollars from
Petrobras’s sale has “apparently” eased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Arnaldo Galvao  in Brasilia at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  