-- Bovespa Advances for Second Day as Steelmakers, Petrobras Rally
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-09-28T20:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/brazil-s-bovespa-index-futures-fall-as-commodities-decline.html
Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index
advanced for a second day as steelmakers rallied after a sale of
iron-ore assets and Petroleo Brasileiro SA gained.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA , Brazil’s second-
biggest steelmaker, rose the most in three weeks after Sumitomo
Corp. reached a final agreement to buy as much as $1.93 billion
of shares in the company’s iron-ore unit.  Vale SA , the world’s
largest iron-ore producer, extended the longest streak since
January, rising for a seventh day as metals climbed. Petrobras
advanced ahead of a 2-percentage-point boost in its weight in
the MSCI Brazil stock index because of its $70 billion share
sale.  “The sale removed a lot of uncertainty related to
Petrobras,” said  Augusto Lange , who helps manage 1.25 billion
reais ($732.1 million) at Neo Gestao de Recursos in Sao Paulo.
“It’s a relevant stock in the index and improves the outlook
for the Bovespa as a whole.”  The  Bovespa  rose 0.6 percent to 69,227.63 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo at 4 p.m. New York time, after falling as
much as 0.5 percent earlier. Thirty-five stocks gained on the
index while 30 declined. The real strengthened 0.2 percent to
1.7072 per dollar.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge rose yesterday to the
highest level since April as an increase in Chinese industrial
profits boosted the outlook for economic growth in Brazil’s
largest trading partner. The  Bovespa  is headed to the biggest
quarterly advance in a year, rising 14 percent since June 30.
It’s up 6.3 percent this month, the most since July.  Jobs and Wages  The Bovespa slumped in earlier trading after a report cast
doubt on the strength of the economic recovery in the U.S.,
Brazil’s second-biggest trade partner.  Mounting pessimism over the outlook for jobs and wages
caused American consumers to lose confidence in September,
indicating spending will take time to recover. The Conference
Board’s sentiment index declined to 48.5 this month, lower than
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and
the weakest level since February, according to figures from the
New York-based private research group today. Another report
showed home prices cooled, hurt by a slump in sales following
the end of a government tax incentive.  Sumitomo, a Japanese trading company, will buy as much as a
30 percent stake in an iron-ore unit of Brazil’s Usiminas,
according to a statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Usiminas 
agreed in June to sell the holding in Mineracao Usiminas SA to
Sumitomo.  Usiminas Gains  Usiminas gained 2.7 percent to 23.10 reais while  Gerdau SA ,
Latin America’s largest steelmaker, rose 2.1 percent to 23.38
reais. Vale rose 0.7 percent to 45.90 reais.  Petrobras rose 0.8 percent to 26.70 reais. Effective Sept.
30, the company’s preferred shares will add 2.2 percentage
points to 11.1 percent of the MSCI Brazil Index while its common
shares will rise 1.8 points to 9.1 percent, Raman Aylur
Subramanian, MSCI’s vice president of index research, said in a
phone interview from New York.  The  Bovespa  index trades for 12.9 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, compared with 12.7 times for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.6 times
for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 15.1 times the reported profits
of its companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  