-- U.K. Retail-Sales Index Increases to Six-Year High, CBI Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-09-28T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/british-retail-sales-index-increases-to-a-six-year-high-more-growth-seen.html
A U.K.  retail-sales  index rose to
its highest in more than six years in September and stores
forecast further growth next month, the Confederation of British
Industry said.  Retailers saying sales volumes rose from a year earlier
outnumbered those reporting falls by 49 percentage points, the
London-based  group  said in a report today. That’s the third
consecutive increase and it pushed the index to the highest
since May 2004. A gauge of expectations for October was at 47,
the highest since October 2001.  While data today confirmed that the U.K.  economy  grew at
its fastest pace in nine years in the second quarter, the
recovery may flag as the government implements the biggest
budget squeeze since World War II. The Bank of England is trying
to get the U.K. economy back to a “reasonable” level of
activity and encourage household spending, Deputy Governor
 Charles Bean  said in an interview with Channel 4 News yesterday.  “High-street sales performed well this month, with growth
better than retailers predicted,” CBI Chief Economic Adviser
 Ian McCafferty  said in a statement. “However, weak prospects
for take-home pay mean that consumer spending is likely to be
fairly restrained in 2011.”  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its 2011 U.K.
growth forecast and said the Bank of England should be ready to
add more stimulus if the recovery falters. Policy makers kept
their key  interest rate  at a record low this month and
maintained their bond-purchase plan to support the economy.  The CBI said the increase in the index in September was led
by clothing and footwear. The index of orders placed on
suppliers rose to 39 from 37 the previous month, and a measure
of sales for the time of year increased to 14 from 2. A gauge of
retailers’ stocks in relation to demand fell to 12 from 21.  House of Fraser Plc , the U.K.’s third-largest department
store chain, said on Sept. 22 that sales since July have climbed
10 percent as it sold more own-label products and expanded the
number of brands it sells online.  The CBI report is based on a survey of 61 companies between
Aug. 26 and Sept. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  