-- Budding Gekkos Get Tips on Ponzis in ‘History of Greed’: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2010-09-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/budding-gordon-gekkos-get-tips-on-ponzi-scams-in-history-of-greed-books.html
David Sarna’s  “History of Greed”
exposes the swinish side of finance. Will it also, like Gordon
Gekko, inspire impressionable college kids to get up to no good?  The mere thought may repulse Sarna, a  management consultant 
and former high-tech executive who remains passionate about the
uses and abuses of markets.  “Capitalism is not about stealing, swindling or screwing
the little guy,” he writes in this uneven yet handy compendium
of frauds and scams. “It is about the individual improving his
or her own situation by producing something of worth that
improves the lives of others.”  We can only hope that his text doesn’t succumb to the law
of unintended consequences. Witness how  Oliver Stone’s  assault
on barbarians-at-the-gate capitalism in the original “Wall
Street” turned many an MBA student into a trader or investment
banker.  Contrary to his title, Sarna’s book isn’t a history. The
great financial scandals of old -- John Law’s Mississippi
Company and the South Sea Bubble, for instance -- are just
briefly summarized in one chapter. In place of a continuous
chronicle, Sarna offers up a series of sometimes dense case
studies on fraud in its myriad forms, especially those practiced
in the U.S. in recent decades.  Drawing on court records, news reports and his own
unpleasant run-ins with flim-flam artists, Sarna takes us on a
tour of the sleazy back alleys of markets. He lucidly explains
how some unscrupulous operators manipulate shell companies while
others pump up stocks they later dump at inflated prices. If
you’re bent on becoming the next  Bernie Madoff , these profiles
in greed form a veritable guidebook on how to build your own
financial weapon of mass destruction.  Boggling Diversity  The book rehashes many familiar stories, yet the diversity
of the scams still boggles the mind: One ring of people has been
charged with fraud in a scheme to steal millions of dollars by
falsely claiming refunds on fraudulent income-tax filings, Sarna
says. Other swindles look as complex as Swiss timepieces: They
tick through layers of stock promoters, short sellers, day
traders and money launderers.  The book’s cover sports a pink piggy with a con man’s face.
The account climaxes with the orgy of Ponzi schemes whose
magnitude and duration grew exponentially during the housing
bubble. Many targeted members of their own religious groups,
preying on the trust found among Orthodox Jews, for example.  Each Ponzi claims to have his own secret sauce for
outperforming the market, be it in metals arbitrage or currency
trading. Madoff famously attributed his too-good-to-be-true
returns to a strategy known as a split-strike conversion.  Greenspan’s Bubbles  Ponzi schemes flourish during booms -- when investors are
less likely to tap their savings -- and collapse during busts,
when redemptions outpace new investments. That’s what happened
during the meltdown. How many investors might have been saved
from ruin if  Alan Greenspan  had dared to prick the dot-com and
housing bubbles during his tenure at the Federal Reserve?  Sarna derides venture capitalists as “vulture
capitalists” and tends to lump short sellers together with
crooks. He does acknowledge that short selling -- a bet that
prices will fall -- is “a legitimate investment strategy.” Yet
he attempts to tar a pioneer of the practice,  Isaac le Maire .  Le Maire, a former Dutch East India Company director,
famously shorted the monopoly’s stock in 1609. He lands in the
rogue’s gallery here because he sold more shares than he owned,
“making him the  first naked short  seller.”  Shareholder Value  Sarna glides past the reality that the company’s directors
were abusing investors: They milked their positions for private
benefit, failed to pay dividends and withheld information about
financial results. They were, in today’s parlance, destroying
shareholder value, as  Paul Frentrop  has explained in his book,
“A History of Corporate Governance.”  For those tempted to try out the scurrilous techniques
described in these pages, Sarna offers a warning -- a whole
chapter of punishments meted out to convicted financial felons.  Fraudster Sholam Weiss, for one, was sentenced to 845 years
in prison, easily topping Madoff’s 150 years. Now incarcerated
as  inmate 32610-054  in U.S. Penitentiary-Canaan in Pennsylvania,
Weiss has a projected release date of Nov. 23, 2754.  “By way of comparison, the punishment for murder can be as
little as 10 years in some jurisdictions,” Sarna writes.  “History of Greed: Financial Fraud From Tulip Mania to
Bernie Madoff” is from  Wiley  (398 pages, $29.95, 19.99 pounds,
24 euros). To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( James Pressley  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 