-- CBO Chief Says Tax Cut Extension Would Hurt Economy
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-09-28T21:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/budget-scorekeeper-says-tax-cut-extension-would-hurt-economy.html
A permanent extension of Bush-era
tax cuts would provide a temporary boost to the U.S. economy and
then become a drag on growth by pushing up interest rates, the
head of the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said.  Douglas Elmendorf  said extending breaks due to expire at
year’s end would increase demand in the next few years by
putting more money in consumers’ pockets.  Over the long term, he said, the tax cuts would hurt the
economy because the government would have to borrow so much
money to finance them that it would begin competing with private
companies seeking loans. That, in turn, would drive up interest
rates, Elmendorf said.  “The problem is that if those tax cuts are not accompanied
by other changes in the  government budget  and are simply funded
through borrowing,” the borrowing “crowds out other private
investment in productive capital -- in the sorts of equipment,
the computers, the machinery, the buildings -- that are the
source of long-term economy growth,” Elmendorf told the Senate
Budget Committee today.  “That connection is less visible, and I think thus less
apparent in most people’s intuition, but it is no less important
for being not-so-visible,” he said.  Elmendorf said lawmakers wouldn’t avoid this dilemma by
extending the tax cuts only for individual income up to $200,000
and up to $250,000 for couples filing jointly, as President
 Barack Obama  has proposed.  20 to 25 Percent  The administration’s proposal, which would cover about 97
percent of taxpayers, would reduce needed borrowing only by 20
to 25 percent compared with the Republican push to extend the
cuts for higher-income brackets as well, he said.  “Extending all the tax cuts except for those higher-income
people has three-quarters or four-fifths, roughly, of the
positive effects and the negative effects of extending all of
the tax cuts,” he said.  Elmendorf said lawmakers could avoid crowding out private
investment by pairing tax cuts with offsetting spending cuts or
tax increases elsewhere in the budget. He also said large
increases in government spending would similarly push up rates
because that too would require additional borrowing. “It’s
symmetric,” he said.  Lawmakers have been at odds over who should be covered by a
tax-cut extension, a dispute exacerbated by looming deficits
fueled by rising health care costs and an aging population.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc . said in a research note released Sept.
22 that even a temporary failure by Congress to extend the cuts
may erase U.S. economic growth in the first half of next year.  Senate Democrats have postponed a vote on the tax cuts
until they return to Washington for a lame-duck session
following the Nov. 2 elections. The tax cuts were enacted in
2001 and 2003 during President  George W. Bush ’s administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at   or
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 