-- California Treasurer Lockyer Calls for Ban on Muni Credit-Default Swaps
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-09-28T21:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/california-treasurer-lockyer-calls-for-ban-on-muni-credit-default-swaps.html
California  Treasurer  Bill Lockyer 
said he wants regulators to prohibit municipal credit-default
swaps because of concern that investors may use the instruments
to manipulate the market and cost state taxpayers.  Lockyer, 69, said he would ban credit-default swaps, a type
of derivative used to protect debt-holders against default, if
he had the authority. He’s called on regulators to adopt
capital-margin requirements to reduce leverage and to prohibit
the speculative use of credit-default swaps -- the trading of
debt-insurance contracts by investors who don’t own the
securities.  “I’d just ban them if I could,” Lockyer said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York today.  The growth of credit-default swaps has raised questions
among officials including Lockyer about whether Wall Street
banks that are paid to underwrite their bonds also profit by
arranging or promoting bets against them. California is the
largest issuer of U.S. municipal debt, with more than $30
billion of sales in 2009.  There were $31 trillion of credit-default swaps outstanding
in the first half of 2009, more than double the level four years
earlier,  according  to the International Swaps and Derivatives
Association.  Lockyer is a Democrat who faces re-election in November. He
started a probe in March into whether speculative trading of
credit-default swaps on state bonds had raised California’s debt
costs by creating an unjustifiably negative perception of the
issuer’s default risk.  ‘Market Mischief’  California’s constitution gives debt service the second
priority after education in drawing from the $88 billion general
fund. The state has never missed a bond payment.  “I’m partially perplexed and partially worried about some
future potential for some market mischief,” Lockyer said. “I’m
perplexed because I don’t know why anyone would buy CDS. I
understand why people hedge, but if you are hedging against
default risk, every serious analyst says that the likelihood of
California debt default is zero.”  The insurance contracts pay off if a borrower fails to meet
its debt agreements.  The price of credit-default swap contracts on California
bonds maturing in 10 years has fallen to about $270,000 to
protect $10 million of bonds, from above $350,000 in June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “CDS spreads suggest the potential for default currently
is 50 percent,” Lockyer said. “That’s crazy. The only reason I
can imagine that someone would want to buy that is to sell it to
a bigger fool next. Otherwise it doesn’t make any sense to me
at all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  