-- Cameron Said to Have Not Yet Made Decision on Scope of U.K. Defense Cuts
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-09-28T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/cameron-said-to-have-not-yet-made-decision-on-scope-of-u-k-defense-cuts.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  has
not yet made a final decision on which defense programs should
be axed under the U.K.’s review of its military capabilities,
said a person familiar with discussions that took place today.  Cameron’s coalition government will publish its first
strategic defense review since 1998 within weeks, setting out
cuts to programs as it seeks to tackle the  record budget deficit 
and redefine its military requirements in the post-Cold War age.  A meeting of the National Security Council today chaired by
the prime minister agreed that more work needs to be done,
according to the person familiar with the discussions, who
declined to be named because it was a private meeting.  The panel, which included Defense Secretary  Liam Fox ,
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and the incoming
armed-forces chief, General  David Richards , agreed in principle
that the U.K. will make operations in Afghanistan its priority,
the person said. The army is the lead force in the country,
rather than the air force and navy.  Cameron also made it clear that the review should be
genuinely strategic, rather than just about spending, and that
greater efficiencies in defense need to be found, the person
said. The defense ministry won’t be able to afford between a
third and half of the equipment it plans to buy over the next
decade, with a 38 billion-pound ($60 billion) shortfall in its
budget.  Spending Review  The National Security Council will meet again at the end of
next week. Osborne will set out by how much government
departments will cut their spending on Oct. 20 and the defense
review will also be published around that date.  A panel of lawmakers criticised the speed at which the
review is being carried out on Sept. 15, saying Britain’s future
security is under threat because of the haste of the examination
of military requirements.  Fox said Aug. 13 that he does not want the nation’s defense
capacity to be “salami-sliced” by budget reductions, arguing
that he favors looking ahead to 2020 to decide what sort of
capabilities the country needs.  Among projects under discussion are a 4.9 billion-pound
order for two aircraft carriers. British media have also
reported that orders for aircraft to replace Tornado jets may be
cut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in Manchester, England, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 