-- Campbell Soup Says CEO Conant to Step Down in July
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-09-28T23:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/campbell-soup-says-ceo-conant-to-step-down-morrison-is-likely-successor.html
Campbell Soup Co. , the world’s
largest soup maker, said  Denise Morrison  will succeed  Douglas R. Conant  as chief executive officer next year.  Conant, 59, will step down July 31, Campbell said today in
a statement.  Morrison , 56, will become executive vice president
and chief operating officer as of Oct. 1 in anticipation of her
election to succeed Conant, Campbell said.  Conant has held the top job for almost a decade, joining
Campbell in January 2001 from Nabisco Foods Co., now part of
Kraft Foods Inc. Early in his tenure, he increased marketing and
research spending to revive soup sales. More recently, he
reduced the sodium in soups and expanded into Russia and China.  “The average CEO lasts four years, so 10 is long enough,”
Conant said today in an interview. “Denise is an excellent
candidate to lead the company forward. I have known her for 15
years and recruited her to both Nabisco and Campbell.”  He said a July 2009 car accident, in which he broke ribs
and sustained other injuries, “didn’t play a role at all” in
the decision, which was completed at the company’s board meeting
in Camden, New Jersey, last week.  This month, Campbell released a full-year earnings forecast
that fell short of some analysts’ projections after U.S. soup
sales slumped in the latest quarter. In the past two years,
Campbell’s $2 billion U.S. soup business has failed to meet some
analysts’ expectations as frozen pizza, macaroni and cheese and
microwave dinners ate into its sales.  ‘Lackluster’ Results  “Their results have been lackluster and the soup category
has been dismal,”  Jack Russo , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co.
in St. Louis, said in a telephone interview. “You could say the
category is tough, so let’s get some new blood in there. But is
she really new blood?” He recommends holding the shares.  Morrison has led the North American soup, sauces and
beverage unit since October 2007, Campbell said. The unit
accounts for 42 percent of the company’s $7.7 billion in revenue
and about 63 percent of its profit.  She also spearheaded the company’s push to reduce sodium in
its soups. Campbell has more than quadrupled the number of
 products  with lower sodium levels to more than 110 since 2005,
the company said earlier this year.  ‘Lifelong Dream’  Morrison has spent more than three decades in the consumer
packaged-goods industry, working for  Kraft , PepsiCo Inc. and
Procter & Gamble Co. She was one of the first women hired as a
sales representative by P&G in the late 1970s to sell its
Pampers diapers and Bounty paper towels, she said in a 2009
interview.  “This is the achievement of a lifelong dream for me,” she
said today in an interview. “I am one of four girls and was
inspired by my father to dream big. Some girls want to be
doctors, but I wanted to run a company.”  Morrison said she will focus on accelerating growth of
Campbell’s brands, which include Pepperidge Farm crackers and V8
beverages, and “capitalizing on global opportunities.”
Campbell entered Russia and China in October 2007. Countries
outside the U.S. account for about one-quarter of Campbell’s
sales.  Campbell rose 22 cents to $36.45 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have gained 7.8
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  