-- Canadian Dollar Reaches 6-Month Low Versus Euro on Rate-Hold Speculation
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-09-28T20:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/canadian-currency-weakens-for-a-second-day-amid-decrease-in-commodities.html
The Canadian dollar touched the
weakest level since March against the euro amid speculation the
Bank of Canada may keep the benchmark interest rate on hold at
its next meeting.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of the
bird on the C$1 coin, dropped against 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts. It has lost 0.3 percent since Sept. 21, the day
the Federal Reserve said it’s “prepared to provide additional
accommodation” to spur the economy. The greenback touched a
five-month low versus the euro as U.S. home prices cooled.  “The U.S. recovery is going to be weighing on Canada,”
 Brian Kim , a currency strategist at UBS AG, said by phone from
Stamford, Connecticut. “The fact that the U.S. recovery is
going to be very choppy is weighing on sentiment there.” He
predicted the loonie will weaken to C$1.06 versus the greenback
in three months.  Canada’s currency was little changed at C$1.0300 per U.S.
dollar at 4:22 p.m. in Toronto, after weakening earlier to
C$1.0362, compared with C$1.0293 yesterday. One Canadian dollar
buys 97.09 U.S. cents. The loonie touched C$1.4025 per euro, the
weakest level since March 15.  The loonie is still up 3.4 percent against the greenback
this month, after a 3.4 percent loss in August. It has
strengthened 3.3 percent for the quarter.  “Close ties to the U.S. economy” are hurting the Canadian
dollar,  Camilla Sutton , director of currency strategy in Toronto
at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit, said via e-mail.  Fed Purchases  The U.S. dollar fell against most major counterparts after
American home prices rose at a slower pace in July, increasing
the possibility the Fed will restart purchases of government
debt, a stimulus effort known as quantitative easing that it
ended in March. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values
increased 3.2 percent from July 2009, the smallest year-over-
year gain since March, the group said today in New York.  The U.S. is Canada’s largest trading partner, and the two
countries conduct the world’s largest bilateral trade
relationship, worth $565 billion in 2008, according to the
website of the  U.S. Embassy  in Ottawa.  Quantitative easing by the Fed would be “negative for the
Canadian dollar on the crosses,” Sutton said, referring to
trades involving currencies other than the greenback. The
Canadian dollar “is now more closely tied to developments at
the Fed -- QE -- and the Bank of Canada -- will they really hike
in this environment?”  The Canadian central bank, which meets in October, raised
the  key interest rate  three times since June, bringing it to 1
percent from a record low 0.25 percent. The Fed has kept its
benchmark at a zero to 0.25 percent range since December 2008.  Bonds Gain  Canada’s government bonds rose, pushing the  yield  on the
benchmark two-year note down 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 1.39 percent. The price of the 2 percent security due
in September 2012 rose 6 cents to C$101.17.  Government bonds overall are poised to gain 0.3 percent
this month, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  The loonie pared declines today after stocks reversed
losses and crude oil fluctuated. Crude for November delivery
rose as much as 0.8 percent to $77.12 a barrel in New York and
fell as much as 1.3 percent to $75.53. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  was up 0.5 percent after a 0.9 percent retreat. The loonie
tends to rise and fall in tandem with stocks and raw materials.  ‘Seriously Underperforming’  “The Canadian dollar is seriously underperforming on a
cross-basis still,”  Firas Askari , head currency trader in
Toronto at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital unit. He cited the
pick-up in oil and stocks as the reason the loonie trimmed its
decline versus the greenback.  Canada’s currency has dropped 5.7 percent against the
Swedish krona in September, 5.1 percent against the Australian
dollar and 4.1 percent against Norway’s krone.  The greenback’s rise versus its Canadian counterpart after
failing to break through a key support level yesterday signals
the pair will remain in a three-month-old range, Royal Bank of
Canada said.  The U.S. and Canadian dollars will likely continue to trade
in a “neutral” range of C$1.0216, the support level, to
C$1.0374, near the 200-day moving average, strategists led by
 George Davis , chief technical analyst at the bank’s RBC Capital
Markets unit in Toronto, wrote in a note to clients.  “We continue to stress that a break above 1.0374 or below
1.0216 will be required in order to resolve the current neutral
backdrop,” the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  