-- Caribbean Storms May Become Cyclone, Reach Florida Within Days, U.S. Says
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-09-28T14:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/caribbean-storms-may-become-cyclone-reach-florida-within-days-u-s-says.html
Caribbean thunderstorms and clouds
south of Cuba are becoming more likely to develop into a
tropical cyclone within two days, the U.S. National Hurricane
Center said.  They have an 80 percent chance of intensifying into a
tropical depression or storm in that period, up from 60 percent
earlier today, the center said today in a  statement  on its
website at 8 a.m. Miami time. The forecaster advised residents
of the Cayman Islands, Cuba and central and southern Florida,
including the Keys, to monitor the weather system.  Winds of almost tropical storm force moving at 39 miles (63
kilometers) an hour are already being registered along with
“widespread” thunderstorms, the center said. An Air Force
Reserve aircraft is scheduled to fly through the storm later
today.  “Heavy rains and strong gusty winds to tropical storm
force are expected to affect the Cayman Islands, Jamaica and
Cuba today,” the center said. “These weather conditions are
likely to spread over the Florida Keys, southern Florida and the
northwestern Bahamas later today and Wednesday.”  If the storm develops into Nicole it won’t likely become a
threat to the U.S. gas and oil interests in the Gulf of Mexico
because it will be moving away from those areas, said  Michael Schlacter , chief meteorologist at  Weather  2000 Inc. in New York.  The Gulf of Mexico is home to 31 percent of U.S. oil and 10
percent of gas production.  “It’s moving away from the Gulf,” Schlacter said. “The
debate is what kind of a ricochet it makes after it crosses
Cuba.”  In one scenario the storm moves up across Florida possibly
bringing heavy rains, he said. In another it turns more to the
east and heads out over the Atlantic toward Bermuda.  If the storm does move up into Florida, Schlacter said he
expects it will be short lived because it will be absorbed by a
weather front there.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  