-- Case Says Housing Will Grow Slowly After Free-Fall: Tom Keene
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-09-28T15:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/case-says-u-s-housing-market-will-grow-slowly-after-free-fall-tom-keene.html
The U.S. housing market has reached
its lows and will expand slowly as the economic recovery remains
subdued, said the S&P/Case-Shiller index co-creator  Karl Case .  The  index  of property values in 20 U.S. cities increased
3.2 percent in July from 12 months earlier, the smallest year-
over-year gain since March. The gauge is a three-month average,
which means the July data are still being influenced by
transactions in May and June that may have benefited from the
government homebuyer tax credit incentive.  “It’s bouncing along the bottom, it stopped that free-
fall,” Case said in an interview today on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “The combination of the
tremendous drop in prices, the fall in interest rates, the
government going all in and buying mortgage-backed securities to
keep mortgage rates low, and the credit, of course -- it’s not
surprising that it’s come to an end.”  A government tax credit of as much as $8,000 gave housing a
temporary lift in late 2009 and early this year. The incentive
required contracts be signed by the end of April and closed by
June. The closing deadline has since been extended to the end of
this month.  “I don’t think anybody is predicting that it’s going to go
up very much in the next couple of years unless we see a
resurgence of economic growth,” said Case, professor emeritus
of economics at Wellesley College in Wellesley, Massachusetts.
Case and  Robert Shiller , a Yale University professor, created
the index based on research from the 1980s.  The Obama administration said last month it planned to
announce a proposal for an emergency loan program to help the
unemployed avoid default. The plan would also include a
government mortgage refinancing effort to lower monthly mortgage
payments for Americans facing foreclosure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  