-- Hog Prices Drop as U.S. Meatpacker Supply Increases; Cattle Little Changed
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-09-28T17:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/cattle-futures-rise-as-falling-dollar-may-boost-exports-hogs-prices-gain.html
Hog futures fell for the first time
in three days as spot-market prices dropped, signaling that the
supply of animals to U.S. meatpackers may be outpacing demand.
Cattle were little changed.  The price of  hogs  for immediate delivery to slaughterhouses
dropped to 78.68 cents a pound yesterday, a three-week low, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data show. About 2.21 million hogs
were  processed  last week, up 1.9 percent from a week earlier.
Pork supplies tend to increase from August to December, based on
animal breeding cycles and as cooler weather boosts hog weights.  “Cash hogs got thumped a little bit yesterday, and that’s
keeping a little pressure on futures here,” said  Dick Quiter , a
broker at McFarland Commodities LLC in Chicago. “With hog
numbers being good, and weights being a little higher than
earlier in the summer, the kills are big. There seems to be
plenty of product around.”  Hog futures for December settlement dropped 1 cent, or 1.3
percent, to 75.775 cents a pound at 12:02 p.m. on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange. A close at that price would be the biggest
decline since Sept. 7. Before today, the price gained 17 percent
this year.  Cattle futures for December delivery were unchanged at 99.3
cents a pound, fluctuating between gains and losses. As of
yesterday, the commodity climbed 15 percent this year. Feeder-
cattle futures for November settlement advanced 0.5 cent, or 0.5
percent, to $1.10275 a pound.  Cattle Fluctuate  Cattle futures earlier rose to a one-week high as the
dollar slipped, boosting prospects for U.S. meat exports.  The  dollar  extended a slide to the lowest level since
February against a basket of six major currencies. U.S.
exporters sold 14,274 metric tons (31.5 million pounds) of beef
in the week ended Sept. 16, more than twice as much as a week
earlier, the most recent data from the USDA show.  “Demand is still going to increase worldwide, export-wise,
with the dollar still having problems and being weak,” said
 Lane Broadbent , a vice president of KIS Futures Inc. in Oklahoma
City. “The market is still excited about the prospects of
moving more beef overseas.”  Concern over beef demand in the U.S. pared gains, said  Rich Nelson , the director of research at Allendale Inc. in McHenry,
Illinois.  Wholesale  choice beef  prices are down 3.6 percent this
month. U.S. consumer confidence fell in September to the lowest
level in seven months, indicating slowing economic recovery, the
Conference Board said today. Meatpackers processed 128,000 head
of cattle yesterday, or 4.9 percent more than the same time last
year, USDA data show.  “We don’t have any strong indications that demand is
coming back yet” for beef, Nelson said. “We have more cattle
showing up to packers, and that will remain with us for several
months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  