-- CFTC Chairman Gensler Says Position Limits Important for Commodities, CDS
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2010-09-28T12:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/cftc-chairman-gensler-says-position-limits-important-for-commodities-cds.html
Commodity Futures Trading
Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler  said it’s “important” to have
limits on trading positions in credit-default swaps as well as
for commodities derivatives.  Regulators should have the authority to set position
limits both on credit-default swaps and physical commodities
derivatives, Gensler told a conference on financial rules in
Brussels today. Limits “allow us to better protect against
abusive practices.”  “We’ve been setting position limits in agricultural
commodities and energy commodities for decades so we can learn
from that,” Gensler said in an interview. Details of limits for
credit-default swaps “are yet to come.”  Congress sought to regulate over-the-counter derivatives,
including swaps, after the trades complicated efforts to solve
the financial crisis. Establishing clearinghouses and
transparent trading systems such as swap-execution facilities
are the main components of the new rules.  President  Barack Obama  signed the Dodd-Frank bill into law
on July 21, setting off the first round of lobbying and rule-
writing inside U.S. regulatory agencies. Along with a new
regulatory structure for derivative markets, the law also
creates a new agency to monitor consumer financial products and
a council of regulators to oversee systemic risks.  July 2011 ‘Realistic’  The CFTC and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
have been meeting to craft the new rules, which in most cases
must be released by July 2011.  “We’re going to start publishing rules this Friday, and
through December,” said Gensler. “We’re human, we may slip,
but I think it’s really realistic.”  Gensler said today he was consulting with European Union
authorities on the U.S. derivatives reforms after the EU
published similar plans to rein in risks. The U.S. and the EU
are “partners” in the effort to regulate over-the-counter
derivatives, he said.  “There are modest differences because we are different
culture and political systems, but we both agree there are to be
mandatory regulation of the large banks that are doing this
business,” Gensler said.  Under two separate initiatives announced Sept. 15, frequent
traders of some OTC derivatives in Europe will have to use
central clearinghouses to close sales, and naked short-sellers
would be required to submit proof they can access underlying
securities to settle trades.  Derivatives are financial instruments based on the value of
another security or benchmark. Some instruments, including
contracts that insured mortgage-backed bonds, have been blamed
for fueling a financial crisis that led to the worst recession
since the Great Depression.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Connan  in Brussels via 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  