-- Chalco Shares Surge on Parent's Plan to Invest in Rare Earths
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-28T08:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/chalco-shares-surge-on-parent-s-plan-to-invest-in-rare-earths-production.html
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest producer of the metal, rose by the most in a
year in Shanghai trading after its parent announced a plan to
invest at least 10 billion yuan ($1.5 billion) in rare earths.  Chalco , as the Beijing-based company is known, rose 10
percent, the daily limit, to close at 10.88 yuan at 3 p.m. local
time, the biggest advance since Oct. 9, 2009. The shares climbed
4.3 percent to close at HK$7.32 at 4 p.m. in Hong Kong.  Aluminum Corp. of China, or Chinalco as the state-owned
parent is known, yesterday  agreed  to build rare earth production
base in Jiangxi province with a local partner. Chinalco is
investing in copper, iron ore and rare earths to diversify as
aluminum overcapacity in China and higher power costs shrink
profit margins.  “The share jump should relate to its parent’s investment
plan in rare earths,” said  Heng Kun , a Shanghai-based analyst
at Essence Securities Co. “The market expects that Chalco will
eventually become a diversified metals producer.”  Chalco Chairman  Xiong Weiping  said in August he held talks
with provincial governments in Jiangxi and Guangxi to win the
right to consolidate resources of rare earths, a group of 17
metals used to make parts used in weapons, computers and hybrid
electric cars. The company is also studying investments in rare
earth smelting facilities, he said.  The venture with Jiangxi Rare Earth & Rare Metals Tungsten
Group Corp. will seek to become “a world producer with strong
competitiveness and pricing power,” Chinalco said late
yesterday in a statement.  China Consolidation  China’s government wants companies including  Jiangxi Copper
Co . and China Minmetals Corp. to consolidate rare earth
resources by buying mines or smelting facilities. The nation,
which controls more than 90 percent of the global rare earth
market, also cut export quotas this year, forcing prices higher.  The rare earth policy has strained trade relations with
countries including the U.S. and Japan. The U.S. has asked
business groups and unions to provide evidence that China is
hoarding rare earths for a case that may be filed at the World
Trade Organization, according to industry representatives who
asked not to be identified.  Japanese Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said today that
China had instituted a de facto ban on rare earth exports that
may have a “big impact” on Japan’s economy. China’s Ministry
of Commerce last week said it hadn’t banned rare earth exports
to Japan.  Rare earths are 17 chemically similar elements, with names
including as neodymium and dysprosium. The oxides are used in
the production of equipment for General Dynamics Corp.’s M1A2
Abrams tank and Aegis SPY-1 radar made by  Lockheed Martin Corp .  -- Xiao Yu . Editors:  Andrew Hobbs ,  Tan Hwee Ann   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at   yxiao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs@bloomberg.net . 