-- Chavez May Strengthen Grip on Economy As Foes Make Gains in Venezuela Vote
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2010-09-28T20:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/chavez-may-strengthen-grip-on-economy-as-foes-make-gains-in-venezuela-vote.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ,
after suffering his worst setback at the ballot box since taking
office in 1999, may seek to strengthen his grip on the economy
and undermine opponents ahead of the 2012 presidential election.  Chavez’s United Socialist Party of Venezuela, while
securing 98 of 165 seats in National Assembly elections Sept. 26
after the redrawing of electoral districts, lost the two-thirds
majority needed to pass key legislation by itself. The
opposition took 65 seats and says it won 52 percent of the
popular vote. Authorities didn’t release an official vote count.  Chavez has experienced defeat just once before in 12
elections. He may look to regain political momentum by
increasing state control of the economy, boosting spending on
social programs and cracking down on opponents, analysts at
Barclays Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  “It’s not in Chavez’s nature to take this threat lying
down,” said  Ray Walser , a Latin America analyst at the Heritage
Foundation in Washington. “He will likely take a retaliatory
step.”  Venezuela’s bonds posted the biggest gain in emerging
markets yesterday as the election results were revealed. The
extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan bonds instead of
U.S. Treasuries fell 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage point,
to 11.54 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+
index. Today, the spread narrowed four basis points to 11.50
percent.  Bond Rally  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 9.25 percent dollar
bond due 2027 fell six basis points to 13.35 percent at 4:14
p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan. That’s its lowest
level since Aug. 24.  “The key victory by the opposition could provide a near-
term boost to asset prices, but the rally could be short-lived
until Chavez acts,” Bank of America Corp. said in a  report .  Opposition candidates, whose boycott in 2005 on concern of
possible fraud handed Chavez near-absolute control of the
unicameral legislature, benefited from voter discontent with
rising crime and 30 percent  inflation , analysts said.  Henrique Capriles Radonski , a member of an anti-Chavez
party and governor of Miranda state, said winning the popular
vote will rouse the opposition ahead of presidential elections
in 2012. The new assembly doesn’t convene until January and
Capriles said Chavez may use the last three months of the
outgoing assembly to pass laws by decree and weaken parliament.  “We need to keep our eyes peeled,” he said. “We hope they
will respect what the country voted for on Sunday.”  Lame-Duck Congress  Chavez may use his control of the lame-duck congress to
push through measures that strengthen his rule, said  Alejandro Grisanti , a Barclays economist.  Grisanti said that in January, without a two-thirds
majority, Chavez cannot change laws governing the central bank
like his party did twice in the past year. His majority will
also fall short of the three-fifths needed to grant Chavez
powers to govern by decree.  “The next congress will be full of debates and conflict,
but few laws will be passed,” Grisanti said in an interview
from New York.  Chavez, in a press conference with foreign correspondents
yesterday, called the results a “triumph” for his Bolivarian
revolution, while acknowledging that he fell short of his
“maximum goal” of winning a super majority of 110 seats.  He said the media distorted the results to falsely claim
victory and that his allies won the popular vote 5.4 million to
5.3 million for the Democratic Unity Table alliance. He said the
alliance, which said it won 52 percent of the overall vote, was
errantly counting for themselves ballots cast for the Fatherland
for Everyone party, which broke with the government this year
and won two seats in the new congress.  ‘Radicalizing Policy’  “The squalid ones said they won,” he said in a message on
his  Twitter  account yesterday. “Well, let them keep winning
like this!”  “The Chavez administration still has a very strong grip on
power,” Goldman Sachs economist  Alberto Ramos  wrote in a report
yesterday. Ramos said he wouldn’t be surprised if Chavez reacted
to the election results by “radicalizing the policy approach
and eroding even further the remaining institutional checks and
balances” before Chavez seeks a third, six-year term in 2012.  Chavez suffered his only electoral defeat in 2007 when
voters narrowly rejected a referendum to change 69 articles of
the constitution. He went on to implement many of the measures,
including making it easier to expropriate property and giving
more power to community councils closely allied with him.  New Districts  Venezuela redrew electoral districts last year giving a
larger voice to rural areas where the government is more
popular. The changes mean that 20,000 people in pro-Chavez
Amazonas state elected a single lawmaker, giving them the same
representation as 350,000 people in the opposition-controlled
capital of Caracas.  More than 66 percent of Venezuela’s 17 million registered
voters cast ballots in what Chavez, citing “comrade”  Abraham Lincoln ’s Gettysburg Address, said was an “exemplary” exercise
in democracy “of the people, by the people and for the
people.”  Venezuela’s  flailing economy , the fastest inflation rate
among 78 economies tracked by Bloomberg and sporadic blackouts
from underinvestment in the nation’s power grid have caused
Chavez’s approval ratings to fall below 50 percent this year,
according to Datanalisis polling firm.  Shrinking GDP  A drop in foreign investment due to nationalizations and
lower oil prices caused the economy to shrink 3.5 percent in the
first half of 2010 even as the rest of South America surged
ahead from the global financial crisis.  Also hurting the government’s approval rating are homicides
that have more than tripled since Chavez came to power to a
record 16,047 last year, according to the Caracas-based
 Venezuelan Observatory of Violence .  Still, the 56-year-old former paratrooper remains revered
among many poor Venezuelans who benefit from free health clinics
and subsidized food markets. Poverty has fallen by half to 24
percent in 2009, government data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
 Corina Rodriguez-Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  