-- Chile Industrial Production Rose 6.9% in August, Biggest Gain Since 2006
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2010-09-28T17:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/chile-industrial-production-rose-6-9-in-august-biggest-gain-since-2006.html
Chilean  industrial output  rose the
most in more than four years in August as factories reopened
after a devastating February earthquake.  Production in South America’s fifth-largest economy rose
6.9 percent in August from a year earlier, the National
Statistics Institute said in a report distributed in Santiago
today. Economists had predicted a gain of 4.3 percent, according
to the median estimate of 13 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg .  Retail sales growth slowed to 13 percent in August from
19 percent in July as an increase in supermarket revenue
moderated, the institute said. That deceleration could mark the
beginning of a trend in which industrial output starts to
replace internal consumption as the driver of Chile’s economic
growth,  Matias Madrid , chief economist at Banco Penta, said.  “Industries most affected by the earthquake are returning
to normal,” Madrid said in a telephone interview from Santiago.
“Consumption obviously will stay dynamic, but at a slower rate
of growth. Industrial production, together with the construction
sector, should start to drive growth next year.”  Chile’s peso strengthened 0.1 percent to 485.73 per U.S.
dollar at 12:38 p.m. New York time. The peso has appreciated
11 percent against the dollar in the past three months, the best
performance among seven Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Machinery Investment  Investment also is helping Chile recover from the
8.8-magnitude earthquake and last year’s slump, when the economy
contracted 1.5 percent, central bank President  Jose De Gregorio 
said in a Sept. 10 speech in Santiago.  Investment in machinery and equipment expanded 65 percent
in the second quarter as companies rebuilt following the
temblor, the central bank said in its latest quarterly monetary
policy report, published Sept. 8.  Production of machinery and equipment increased 9.6 percent
in August, the statistics agency said. Production of food and
beverages climbed 9 percent in August as output of wood and wood
products rose 15 percent.  Industrial sales declined 0.2 percent in August from the
previous year as gains in the chemical business failed to offset
a drop in metal and paper sales, the institute said. The median
estimate of five economists  surveyed by Bloomberg   was for
industrial sales to grow 1.3 percent in August.  The growth in industrial output suggests economic activity
will expand at an annual rate of 7.7 percent in August, which
would be the fastest pace of growth since 2004,  Cristobal Doberti , chief economist at Bice Inversiones in Santiago, said
in an e-mailed note to investors today.  Growth in Consumption  Economic activity  grew 6.5 percent in the second quarter
and 7.1 percent in July from a year earlier, led by the
transport, communications, energy and retail industries, the
central bank said Sept. 6.  “Growth has been very balanced between consumption,
investment and some transitory effects,” De Gregorio said in a
Sept. 12 interview in Basel, Switzerland.  The economic recovery will create inflationary pressure,
motivating the central bank to increase interest rates by a
half-point in October, Doberti said in the note.  The central bank on Sept. 16 raised its overnight interest
rate for a fourth straight month to 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randall Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  