-- China Ends Effective Ban on Rare Earth Shipments to Japan, Asahi Reports
-- B y   G o   O n o m i t s u   a n d   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2010-09-29T11:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/china-may-approve-japan-rare-earth-export-applications-today-asahi-says.html
China ended an effective ban on
rare-earth exports to Japan yesterday when it began accepting
customs applications, the Asahi newspaper  reported , citing
unidentified Japanese companies.  Companies were able to apply for customs clearance over the
Internet yesterday and may be able to obtain permits as early as
today, the newspaper said. China had halted customs procedures
since Sept. 21, the newspaper said.  Ties between China and Japan soured this month over the
detention of a Chinese boat captain whose ship collided with two
Japanese Coast Guard vessels in disputed waters. Japanese
Economy Minister Banri Kaieda yesterday said China’s “de
facto” export ban on rare earths, metals used to make parts of
hybrid cars, missiles and televisions, will hurt its economy.  Tsutomu Murasaki, director for the non-ferrous metals
division of Japan’s trade ministry, couldn’t be reached for
comments. Tadashi Kurakata, general manager of Advanced Material
Japan, a Tokyo-based trading house that specializes in rare
earths, said he couldn’t confirm the Asahi report.  China is the world’s largest supplier of rare earths, and
Japan accounts for about 65 percent of exports from the nation,
according to a Sept. 24 report by Macquarie Group Ltd. Carmakers
such as  Toyota Motor Corp. , Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co.,
which require rare earth elements for vehicle development, are
among the companies most affected by restrictions on trade,
Macquarie said.  Major Material  In July, China cut rare earths export quotas for this half
by 72 percent to bolster prices and ensure domestic supplies.  “Rare earths are becoming a major raw material in
electronics,” Peter Strachan, a Perth-based analyst for
independent advisory firm StockAnalysis, said today in a phone
interview. “When China announced it was restricting exports,
prices started to rise dramatically.”  Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry is
investigating China’s effective ban on rare earths. The
government will check with about 30 companies including users
and trading houses to confirm whether China has banned the
shipments, Murasaki said yesterday.  China’s Ministry of Commerce spokesman Chen Rongkai said
yesterday that there was no ban on exports to Japan, repeating a
statement he made last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Go Onomitsu  in Tokyo at 
 gonomitsu@bloomberg.net ;
 Masumi Suga  in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 