-- China Moves Closer to Becoming Currency King: Riccardo Barbieri
-- B y   R i c c a r d o   B a r b i e r i
-- 2010-09-28T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/china-edges-closer-to-being-currency-king-commentary-by-riccardo-barbieri.html
When U.S. President  Barack Obama 
told Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  last week that the yuan’s peg to
the dollar is unsustainable, he forgot to add one thing: It also
threatens the world’s floating exchange-rate system.  China’s official currency reserves are simply becoming too
large. The Bank for International Settlements’  triennial survey 
of foreign-exchange and derivatives activity, released this
month, points to huge and growing trading volumes in the global
currency market. But make no mistake: China and other trade
surplus countries have accumulated reserves even faster in
recent years. If this trend continues, China may soon set
trading ranges for major currencies such as the U.S. dollar and
the euro, effectively ending their free float in the market.  At first blush, the survey provides a reassuring message
about the state of foreign-exchange markets: Daily trading of
all currency-related products in April 2010 averaged almost $4
trillion, a 20 percent increase since the  previous survey  three
years earlier. Such a huge market volume suggests that exchange-
rate levels for the currencies whose values are determined on
the open markets can hardly be manipulated. Every day, euro/
dollar transactions alone amount to a massive $1.1 trillion.  Most of the growth in the currency markets over the past
three years has come from spot foreign-exchange trading, while
daily transactions in options and other derivatives products
contracted slightly. Those between dealers and “other financial
institutions” -- including not only pension and hedge funds but
also central banks -- were the main driver.  Key Drivers  While most comments on the BIS data have focused on hedge
funds as the most likely source of growth in trading volumes, a
breakdown of the “other financial institutions” category isn’t
available. Thus, it may well be that spot transactions with
central banks was one of the key drivers.  Foreign-exchange market trading in recent years has grown
much less rapidly than the currency reserves of the surplus
countries that still maintain fixed or managed exchange rates.
Over the past three years, China’s reserves doubled to about
$2.5 trillion. Brazil’s did, too, though to a more modest $247
billion. Other surplus countries such as Russia, Japan and South
Korea recorded increases in the dollar value of their reserves.  If China’s reserves were to double again in the next three
years and if the foreign-exchange market grows 20 percent, as it
did in 2007-2010, China would hold more than the daily trading
volume in all currency instruments.  Speculative Trades  The net flows required to move a currency pair are much
smaller than the daily trading of the market. To provide an
order of magnitude, consider that the largest net speculative
position recorded in euro/dollar futures in recent years was
equivalent to $18 billion, or that the reported size of Japan’s
recent intervention was $30 billion to $50 billion.  If China decided to actively trade its reserves, it could
not only influence the exchange rate of the yuan -- as it has
done so far -- but also effectively set if not the level, at
least a trading range for other major currencies.  There has been frequent talk in recent years about
consequences for the dollar if China dumps Treasuries in
retaliation against U.S. protectionism. The process of reserve
diversification by surplus countries (notably the BRIC nations
of Brazil, Russia, India and China) away from the dollar also
helped explain the long period of dollar weakness in 2002-2008.  Central-Bank ‘Ammunition’  A more fundamental issue is now likely to come to the fore:
The floating exchange-rate system rests not only on the Federal
Reserve and other leading central banks abstaining from
intervention, but also on third-party central banks holding
small “ammunition.” Even if China never targets a level or
trading range for the majors, its asset-allocation changes will
be vital. If China’s reserves grow at the pace of recent years,
a 1 percent allocation shift in its reserves in 2013 would
generate a net flow into the market of $50 billion.  Trading volumes in currency markets will probably grow in
coming years, but unless we see a generalized move toward
exchange-rate flexibility, particularly in Asia, they will be
increasingly driven by decisions taken in the government sector
-- and certainly not in the U.S. and Europe.  It’s not a question of if, but Wen.  ( Riccardo Barbieri Hermitte  is an independent economist and
market strategist. He was previously head of international
economics and global rates and currency research at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Riccardo Barbieri at  Riccardo100@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  