-- China’s Foreign Buyout Investments Slow on Local Competition
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-09-28T06:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/china-s-foreign-buyout-investments-slow-on-local-competition.html
Foreign private-equity investment
in China has slowed as competition from domestic funds pushed
asset prices higher, said  Antony Leung , chairman for Greater
China at  Blackstone Group LP .  Some local funds are more aggressive and tend to outbid
overseas buyout firms, Leung said in an interview at the
SuperReturn conference in Hong Kong today. The absence of a
capital shortage and demands for higher valuations for assets
also pose challenges to foreign private-equity funds, he said.  “Compared with the other countries, China is still trading
at a premium,” Leung said at the conference. “Obviously we can
argue that there is growth, but on the other hand, the message
is, ‘not cheap.’”  Completed foreign private-equity investments in China fell
27 percent to $675 million in the third quarter from the first
three months of the year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
number of transactions fell to 19 from 26, the data show.  Blackstone, based in New York, was the first global
private-equity firm to set up a domestic buyout fund in China
last year, followed by Carlyle Group and TPG Inc. A locally
registered fund in China requires less regulatory approval for
some investments and use of foreign exchange, and has better
access to local targets, Leung said.  Blackstone has raised more than half of the 5 billion yuan
($747 million) it aims for and will announce the first closing
of the fund when it makes an initial investment, Leung said.  China Investments  The firm has made five investments in China since it hired
Leung in 2007, including a stake in Chinese agricultural
products distributor Dili Group Holdings Co. this year, and a 20
percent stake in National BlueStar Group, a specialty chemicals
maker, in 2008, Bloomberg data show.  Carlyle said in July it raised 2.4 billion yuan for its
Beijing local-currency fund in its first closing, and plans to
double the capital this year. It also received approval in March
to form a $100 million fund with Fosun Group, a privately held
Chinese company whose businesses span steel, mining and property.  Private-equity firms have set up 35 yuan-denominated funds
with an aggregate value of $5.88 billion in China this year, an
increase of 186 percent from the same period in 2009, the  Asian
Venture Capital Journal  said in a Sept. 13 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  