-- China Rare Earth Says Japan Exports Halted on Lack of Government Permits
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-28T08:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/china-rare-earth-says-japan-exports-halted-on-lack-of-government-permits.html
     Sept. 28 (Bloomberg) --  China Rare Earth Holdings Ltd. ,
which exports 30 percent of its products to Japan, said
shipments to the nation were halted from last week after a local
branch of the Chinese trade ministry stopped issuing licenses.  “We couldn’t get export licenses to Japan,” John Jiang, a
sales manager in charge of exports at China Rare Earth, said by
phone from Yixing, Jiangsu province. “They cited system
failure.”  Ties between China and Japan soured this month over the
detention of a Chinese fishing boat captain whose ship collided
with two Japanese Coast Guard vessels in disputed waters.
Japanese Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  today said China’s “de
facto” export ban on rare earths, metals used to make parts of
hybrid cars, missiles and televisions, will hurt its economy.
      China Rare Earth  rose 9.2 percent to a record HK$3.44 at
the 4:00 p.m. close in Hong Kong. The stock has gained 39
percent in the past three trading days.  The share price gain “maybe due to the fact that rare
earth is a very hot investment these days,” Jiang said in the
interview. “The market may believe the lack of license to
export to Japan won’t hurt our overall business.”  Exports to Europe and U.S. are unaffected, Jiang said. The
company lists General Electric Co., Japan’s Nippon Electric
Glass Co. and  Krosaki Harima Corp.  as customers on its website.  Japanese Sales  Japan accounts for about 6 percent of the company’s  sales 
in 2009, the second-biggest contributor, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company gets about 86 percent of its
revenue from China.  Rare earths are 17 chemically similar elements, including
neodymium and dysprosium. The oxides are used in the production
of equipment for General Dynamics Corp.’s M1A2 Abrams tank and
Aegis SPY-1 radar made by Lockheed Martin Corp.  China, which controls more than 90 percent of the global
rare earth market, cut export quotas this year, forcing prices
higher.  China’s Ministry of Commerce spokesman  Chen Rongkai  said
today that China didn’t impose a ban on exports of the products
to Japan, repeating a statement he made last week.  -- Feiwen Rong  and  Xiao Yu . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Andrew Hobbs .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at   yxiao@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs@bloomberg.net . 