-- China's Rare-Earth Ban Would Hurt Japan, Kaieda Says
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   J a r r e t t   B a n k s
-- 2010-09-28T09:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/china-s-rare-earth-ban-would-hurt-japan-economy-minister-kaieda-says.html
China’s “de facto” ban on exports
to Japan of rare earths, a group of 17 metals used in weapons,
hybrid vehicles and laptop computers, may have a “big impact”
on Japan’s economy, Japanese Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said.  China’s  Ministry of Commerce  spokesman  Chen Rongkai  said in
a telephone interview today that China has not imposed such a
ban, repeating a stance he made last week, after media reports
said China was restricting shipments. Japan Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  said today there has been no indication from
China that there is a formal ban in place.  “There has been concern that some problems have developed
at customs for exports and imports and there has also been
concern about rare-earth materials. We are looking into that,”
Noda said at a press conference in Tokyo today. “We intend to
confirm the facts of the situation by using our diplomatic
routes.”  Ties between Asia’s two biggest economies soured over the
detention of a Chinese fishing boat captain whose ship collided
with two Japanese Coast Guard vessels. Japan’s decision to
release him last week failed to assuage China, which demanded
compensation for the seizure of the trawler and crew.  The ban “could have a very big impact on Japan’s
economy,” Kaieda said today in Tokyo. China has been making a
“very severe” response to the captain’s arrest, he said.  First Step  Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry said it
will investigate China’s de facto export ban on rare earths. The
government will check with about 30 domestic companies including
users and trading houses to confirm whether China has banned the
shipments, Tsutomu Murasaki, director of METI’s non-ferrous
metals division, told reporters at a briefing in Tokyo today.  A Japan-China summit would be the first step toward
improving relations between the nations, Kaieda said. Japan’s
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  plans to attend a summit of Asian and
European leaders in Belgium next week, according to Chief
Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku .  Japan is China’s second-biggest trading partner after the
U.S., with two-way commerce in the first seven months of the
year rising 24.7 percent from the same period in 2009 to $65.2
billion, according to Chinese customs statistics.  China’s government wants companies including  Jiangxi Copper
Co.  and  China Minmetals Corp.  to consolidate rare earth
resources by buying mines or smelting facilities. The nation,
which controls more than 90 percent of the global rare earth
market, also cut export quotas this year, forcing prices higher.  ‘System Failure’  China Rare Earth Holdings Ltd., which exports 30 percent of
its products to Japan, said shipments to the nation were halted
from last week after a local branch of the Chinese trade
ministry stopped issuing licenses.  “We couldn’t get export licenses to Japan,” John Jiang, a
sales manager in charge of exports at China Rare Earth, said
today by phone from Yixing, Jiangsu province. “They cited
system failure.” The company’s exports to Europe and the U.S.
are unaffected, Jiang said.  The likelihood of a sustained or extensive embargo is low,
Macquarie Equities Research said in a report Sept. 24. “The
intertwining of supply chains and trade between China and Japan
would result in effects damaging to both. However, Japan’s
vulnerability from its dependence on China’s rare earth
production has been highlighted once again.”  Building Stockpiles  Advanced Material Japan, a Tokyo-based trading house that
specializes in rare earths, has been building its stockpiles as
much as possible, pushing up prices, said a spokesman, who
declined to be named.  Mitsubishi Corp. said it was unable to confirm whether
exports had stopped. “The weekend shipment hasn’t passed through
customs yet. We are still checking the reason for the delay,”
said Shunsuke Nanami, manager of corporate communication.  Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corp., which manages
Japan’s strategic metals including rare earth, declined to
disclose stockpile details, said spokesman Kazuhiro Uematsu.  The rare earth policy has strained trade relations with
countries including the U.S. and Japan. The U.S. has asked
business groups and unions to provide evidence that China is
hoarding rare earths for a case that may be filed at the World
Trade Organization, according to industry representatives who
asked not to be identified.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
 Jarrett Banks  in Tokyo at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net . 