-- City's Mancini Wants Adam Johnson to Work Harder, Mirror Says: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-09-28T10:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/city-s-mancini-wants-adam-johnson-to-work-harder-mirror-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Johnson’s Task  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  says Adam Johnson
must work harder to win back his place in the starting lineup,
the  Daily Mirror  said.  Johnson scored twice for England in Euro 2012 qualifiers
earlier this month and Mancini is worried his overnight success
may have “gone to his head,” the Mirror said.  The winger has not started City’s past two Premier League
matches and was played in a weakened League Cup squad against
West Brom last week.  Carlos Tevez  says City must beat the smaller clubs if it’s
to win the Premier League, the  Sun reported .  The striker feels City has to follow its weekend victory
over Chelsea with strong efforts against Newcastle and
Blackpool, the Sun said. City beat Liverpool 3-0 in August only
to lose at Sunderland and draw with Blackburn.  Fabianski Backed  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  spoke in support of backup
goalkeeper Lukasz Fabianski ahead of tonight’s Champions League
game at Partizan Belgrade, the  Sun said .  Fabianski, who will play in place of injured  Manuel Almunia , is known by Gunners fans as “Flappy Handski” after a
pair of glaring errors led to a 2-1 loss at Porto last season,
the Sun said.  “Fabianski is ready,” Wenger was quoted as saying by the
newspaper. “I don’t have any concerns.”  No Concerns  Chelsea manager  Carlo Ancelotti  has downplayed any talk of
injury concerns at the Premier League champion, the  Daily
Telegraph  said.  Five injuries and  Didier Drogba ’s suspension will leave the
Blues with just 11 experienced players for tonight’s Champions
League match against Marseille.  “I have a lot of options,” the Telegraph quoted Ancelotti
as saying. “It’s normal to have in the season two to three
injuries and this is not a problem.”  Deschamps ‘No’ to Reds  Marseille coach  Didier Deschamps  said he rejected the
chance to manage Liverpool during the summer, the  Guardian 
reported.  Deschamps held what he called “a long discussion” with
Liverpool officials to replace  Rafael Benitez , the Guardian
said. However the approach came too close to pre-season for him
to leave Marseille. Roy Hodgson left Fulham to take the post.  O’Neill Return?  Former Aston Villa manager  Martin O’Neill  has been targeted
for a return to Leicester following the club’s poor start, the
 Mirror said .  Leicester’s Thai owners want to bring back O’Neill, who
guided the Foxes from 1995-2000 before leaving for Celtic, as
pressure mounts on  Paulo Sousa  with the club last in the second-
division Championship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 