-- Sugar Rises to Seven-Month High on Supply Concern; Coffee Jumps
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2010-09-28T18:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/coffee-rises-to-one-month-high-on-concern-vietnamese-supply-may-be-curbed.html
Sugar futures rose for a fifth
straight session amid global supply concerns, extending a rally
to a seven-month high. Coffee had its biggest gain in a month.  Flooding in Pakistan ruined crops valued at $3.27 billion,
including 10.4 million metric tons of standing sugar cane, Farm
Minister  Nazar Muhammad Gondal  said today. A drought in Brazil,
the world’s biggest producer, is harming crops and drying the
Amazon River to its lowest level in 47 years.  “Dry weather in Brazil and flooding in other regions is
causing a lot of concern,” said  Marius Sonnen , the president of
Sonnen & Co., a New York-based sugar trader.  Raw sugar for March delivery gained 0.31 cent, or 1.2
percent, to settle at 25.29 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York. Earlier, the price reached 25.35
cents, the highest level for a most-active contract since Feb.
22. The commodity has surged 11 percent in the past week.  Sugar may rise to 30 cents, Sonnen said.  In London, refined-sugar futures for December delivery rose
90 cents, or 0.1 percent, to close at $645 a ton at 5:30 p.m.
local time on NYSE Liffe.  Arabica coffee futures for December delivery rose 6.7
cents, or 3.7 percent, to $1.8895 a pound in New York, the
biggest gain since Aug. 27.  “There is some technical buying,” said  Boyd Cruel , a
senior analyst at Vision Financial Markets in Chicago. Cruel
expects prices to rise to $1.94 a pound.  In London, robusta-coffee futures for November delivery
advanced $30, or 1.7 percent, to close at $1,766 a ton. Earlier,
the price reached $1,773, the highest level since Aug. 24.  Robusta climbed on concern that supplies from Vietnam, the
biggest grower of the variety, may be limited.  No Forecast  The Vietnam Coffee and Cocoa Association has yet to make an
estimate on the nation’s production. The absence of a forecast
before the harvest, which usually starts in November, probably
will drive prices higher, said  Andrea Thompson , an analyst at
Belfast, Northern Ireland-based research company CoffeeNetwork.  “There has been awareness that if robusta is going to go
higher, it’s going to be in this period before the new crop flow
begins, with the Vietnamese harvest particularly,” she said.  Arabica is grown mainly in Latin America and brewed by
specialty companies including Starbucks Corp. Robusta beans,
used in instant coffee, are harvested mostly in Asia and parts
of Africa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at   ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  