-- Teams See Improvement as Delhi Games Planners Race to Be Ready
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-09-28T11:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/commonwealth-games-teams-see-improvement-as-organizers-race-to-be-ready.html
Commonwealth Games team officials
said conditions at the athletes’ village in New Delhi are
improving as the city’s top official suggested that cleanup work
may continue until the eve of the event.  After collapsing beds and invading snakes over the weekend
heaped further embarrassment on the local organizing committee,
officials from countries including Australia, England and New
Zealand said they were satisfied with progress ahead of the  Oct.
3-14  multisport competition.  Sheila Dikshit , Delhi’s Chief Minister, said removing water
from basements and scrubbing apartments may continue for two to
three days, CNN-IBN television reported. Yesterday, Dikshit had
said the authorities were “rushing against time” as teams from
 71 countries and territories  arrive. Mike Fennell, president of
the Commonwealth Games Federation, said Sept. 25 that there was
a “considerable amount of work” remaining.  “I’m seeing that work first hand and they’re doing an
unbelievable job in there,”  Steve Moneghetti , the Australian
team’s chef de mission, told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.  The first batch of 48 English athletes moved into the
village yesterday after staying in hotels as the cleanup
continued over the weekend. Another 36 members of the English
team are scheduled to arrive today.  “It’s not perfect but the accommodation is acceptable,”
 Craig Hunter , head of the England team delegation in Delhi, told
the British Broadcasting Corp.  Beds and Snakes  The buildup to the Games, aimed to showcase India’s
economic might, has been marred by the collapse of a footbridge
next to the main stadium, an outbreak of dengue fever, monsoon
floods and security concerns after the Sept. 19 shooting of two
Taiwanese nationals near a mosque.  Indian boxer Akhil Kumar told journalists the bed in his
village room collapsed Sept. 25 as he sat on it for the first
time, Press Trust of India reported.  The  Times of India  newspaper yesterday published a front-
page photograph of a cobra snake it said was rescued from the
event’s tennis stadium. South Africa’s high commissioner to
India said another snake was found at the weekend in a room
allocated to one of the country’s athletes.  Several athletes, including world discus champion Dani
Samuels of Australia and  Elena Baltacha , Britain’s No. 1-ranked
female tennis player, have withdrawn citing health and safety
concerns. While individuals have pulled out, Fennell said all
the competing teams are sending squads.  ‘Safe and Secure’  New Zealand, which last week delayed the arrival of its
athletes into the Indian capital because of a “long list of
outstanding issues” including plumbing, wiring and leaks, said
competitors would begin moving into the village today as planned.  “Facilities are now safe and secure,” the New Zealand
Olympic Committee, which is responsible for the country’s
Commonwealth Games team, said today in a statement.  Scotland’s archers, lawn bowlers and shooters, who had
their arrival delayed by three days because of the readiness of
the village, yesterday worked for the first time at their
respective training venues, Commonwealth Games Scotland said.  “The venue is very impressive and it’s all looking in
great shape,” Scottish bowler David Peacock said on Team
Scotland’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  