-- Commodity Volatility May Gain Amid Recovery Concerns, SocGen's Godin Says
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-09-28T07:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/commodity-volatility-may-gain-amid-recovery-concerns-socgen-s-godin-says.html
Commodity prices, which have surged
to the highest level since January, may see greater volatility
as investors react to threats to the global economic recovery,
according to Societe Generale SA.  “We’re not completely out of the crisis,”  Olivier Godin ,
the bank’s head of commodities derivatives in Asia, said in an
interview from Hong Kong. “There might be some bumps along the
way, and that’s going to affect our markets.”  The  Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 raw materials has
advanced to an eight-month high, driven by a weaker dollar.
Cotton jumped to the highest price in 15 years today amid a
supply squeeze, while gold climbed to a record yesterday. Wheat
more than doubled between June and August as drought slashed the
Russian harvest. Corn has rallied to a two-year high.  The European government-debt crisis, shifts in currencies,
or U.S. political developments may “move the market as much as
fundamental factors,” said Godin, who works for SocGen’s
corporate and investment-banking arm and has traded commodities
for more than 15 years.  Investors planned to increase their commodity investments
over the next three years, expecting returns to match or beat
historical averages, Barclays Capital, the investment-banking
arm of Barclays Plc, said in March, citing a survey.  ‘React Very Quickly’  “Commodities will react very quickly to any global, macro
factor, much more these days than before with the growth of
investors’ participation,” Godin said on Sept. 22 by phone.  Asian stocks  and commodities declined today on concern that
Europe’s debt crisis may slow global economic growth. “Concerns
about the global economic outlook haven’t cleared,” said  Yasushi Noguchi , a strategist at SMBC Friend Securities Co. in Tokyo.  The CRB Index’s 30-day  historical volatility , a measure of
how much commodities fluctuate, declined to 11.3 percent last
week, the lowest level since October 2007. The measure rose to
50 percent in November 2008 as prices collapsed following the
failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, which began in Greece,
stoked investor concern earlier this year that the possibility
of a default may derail the economic recovery. The crisis sent
the euro lower and hurt commodity prices, including copper.  China’s Curbs  The metal, seen by some investors as a gauge of economic
activity as it’s used in construction, slumped 16 percent in the
three months to June 30, the worst quarterly performance since
2008. Three-month futures also dropped as authorities in China,
the largest metals user, curbed loans for third homes and raised
mortgage rates from mid-April to prevent asset bubbles.  Copper has risen about 21 percent since the end of June as
the Dollar Index fell 7.3 percent. The contract on the London
Metal Exchange reached a five-month high of $7,990 a metric ton
on Sept. 24, and was at $7,862 at 3:04 p.m. in Singapore.  “In the last five years, there’s been a very important
growth in the commodities trades in Asia, especially from
China,” Godin said. “I don’t see why that will not continue
because raw materials are transformed and consumed in great deal
in emerging countries like China and India.”  China’s economy may expand 9.5 percent this year, according
to State Council researcher  Zhang Liqun . The country outpaced
Japan as the second-largest economy in the last quarter, and
last year overtook Germany as the largest exporter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Glenys Sim  in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  