-- Company Privacy Rights Get Review at U.S. High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2010-09-28T18:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/company-privacy-rights-get-review-in-u-s-supreme-court-case.html
The  U.S. Supreme Court  agreed to
use a case involving  AT&T Inc.  to consider whether a corporation
can challenge the release of government documents as an
infringement of the company’s privacy rights.  The justices today said they will hear the Obama
administration’s appeal of a ruling that said corporations can
invoke a provision in a federal document-disclosure law that
protects against invasions of “personal privacy.”  The government says the U.S. appeals court ruling upset the
decades-old understanding of the Freedom of Information Act,
under which hundreds of thousands of requests are filed every
year.  The ruling “likely also will result in the withholding of
agency records to which the public should have access, including
records documenting corporate malfeasance,” the administration
argued in a brief filed by then-Solicitor General  Elena Kagan .  President  Barack Obama  has since appointed Kagan to the
Supreme Court, and she didn’t take part in the court’s decision
today agreeing to hear the case.  AT&T, the largest U.S. phone company, is trying to block
disclosure of what it says are competitively sensitive documents
connected to a 2004 Federal Communications Commission
investigation into the company’s billing practices under a
government program aimed at improving telecommunications
technology in schools. AT&T reached a $500,000 settlement with
the FCC that year.  FOIA Request  CompTel, a trade association representing companies that
compete with AT&T and  Verizon Communications Inc. , filed a
freedom of information request in 2005, seeking access to the
investigation file.  AT&T urged the Supreme Court not to hear the appeal, saying
the Philadelphia-based appeals court reached the right
conclusion.  “Corporations, like individuals, face the prospect of
public embarrassment, harassment and stigma based on their
involvement in such investigations,” the company argued.  AT&T’s contentions, if adopted by the court, “would be a
much more sweeping protection of company documents,” said
 Charles Davis , a professor at the University of Missouri’s
journalism school. He called the case “huge.”  In interpreting the phrase “personal privacy,” the
appeals court pointed to the statute’s definition of “person”
as including corporations. The appeals court said that
definition suggests that “personal” includes corporations as
well.  Only Individuals  The government argues that the most natural meaning of
“personal” covers only individuals and that AT&T’s reasoning
would also let government agencies assert a privacy interest.  The Supreme Court’s ruling might affect a bid by Bloomberg
LP to force the Federal Reserve Board to release documents
identifying banks that might have failed without the U.S.
government bailout, Davis said. A federal appeals court in New
York has ordered the disclosure, and the Fed is weighing an
appeal to the Supreme Court.  The Bloomberg case centers on a separate FOIA provision
that protects against the disclosure of company trade secrets.
Even so, Davis said an AT&T victory in its case might give the
banks a new line of argument to try to block disclosure of the
Fed records.  Bloomberg LP is the parent company of Bloomberg News.  The case is Federal Communications Commission V. AT&T Inc.,
09-1279.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 