-- Consumer Prices in Saxony Accelerated in September on Clothing, Shoes, Oil
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-09-28T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/consumer-prices-in-saxony-accelerated-in-september-on-clothing-shoes-oil.html
Inflation  in the German state of
Saxony accelerated in September as prices for clothing, shoes
and heating oil rose.  The inflation rate increased to 1.5 percent from 1.1
percent in August, the state’s statistics office in Kamenz said
in an e-mailed statement today. Prices rose 0.1 percent on the
month. Economists predict  German inflation , calculated using a
harmonized European method, will accelerate to 1.3 percent from
1 percent, according to the median of 20 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey . That report, based on data from six
states, is due later today.  While Germany’s economy expanded at the  fastest pace  in two
decades in the second quarter and companies are stepping up
production to fill incoming orders, the Bundesbank expects price
developments to remain “moderate.” The euro has risen 5
percent against the dollar this month, offsetting price pressure
from a 3.6 percent increase in crude oil prices.  “There’s absolutely no inflation pressure of any kind,”
said  Klaus Baader , co-chief euro-region economist at Societe
Generale in London. “If anything, we will undershoot the
European Central Bank’s inflation threshold.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday that the
rate of inflation in the 16-nation euro region “could increase
slightly in the short term but should remain moderate over the
policy-relevant horizon.” The Frankfurt-based central bank aims
at keeping annual consumer-price increases slightly below 2
percent.  Clothing and Shoes  Euro-area inflation may accelerate to 1.8 percent this
month from 1.6 percent in August, another survey of economists
shows. That report is due from the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg on Sept. 30.  In Saxony, prices for clothing and shoes rose 7.3 percent
in the month and 2.5 percent in the year, while heating oil was
23.2 percent more expensive than 12 months earlier, the
statistics office said. Food prices increased 0.2 percent in
September and 2.9 percent from a year ago. Prices for package
tours were down 9.1 percent in the month and 1.5 percent in the
year.  Consumer spending, which contributed about 60 percent to
Germany’s gross domestic product last year, increased 0.6
percent in the second quarter as  confidence  in the economic
recovery increased and  unemployment  declined. The country’s HDE
retail association last week raised this year’s sales growth
forecast to 1.5 percent from zero.  “Private consumption will continue to pick up against the
backdrop of a favorable labor-market situation and the quite
optimistic mood of consumers,” the Bundesbank said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  