-- Italy Consumer Confidence Increases to 5-Month High
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2010-09-28T10:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/consumer-confidence-unexpectedly-rose-in-september-to-highest-since-april.html
Italian consumer confidence 
unexpectedly increased this month to the highest since April as
households grew more optimistic about their finances and the
outlook for jobs.  The  Isae Institute’s  consumer sentiment index rose to 107.2
from 104.1 in August, the Rome-based research center said today
in a statement. Economists forecast a reading of 104, according
to the  median of 13 estimates  in a Bloomberg survey.  Households “were more confident that the labor market will
improve,” Isae said. “The general picture still shows
pessimism about the economic outlook.”  A sub-index measuring household expectations climbed to the
highest since Dec. 2009, a sign that a growing number of
consumers see employment improving in coming months, Isae said.
Italy’s  jobless rate  fell in July for a third month to 8.4
percent, statistics institute  Istat  projected on Aug. 31.  The $2.2 trillion  economy , which emerged last year from its
worst slump since World War II, expanded 0.5 percent in the
three months through June as exports more than offset a drop in
 consumer spending . Weak demand may weigh on the recovery, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development forecast
on Sept. 9. Italy would be the only member of the Group of Seven
nations to contract in the third quarter, the OECD said.  Optimism in Italy was mirrored in Europe’s biggest economy.
German  consumer sentiment  will rise next month, the Nuremberg-
based market research company GfK AG said yesterday. German
households may grow more confident after the  economy  expanded a
record 2.2 percent in the second quarter and  unemployment 
declined in July, GfK said.  The Isae survey was conducted between Sept. 1 and Sept. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorenzo Totaro  in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  