-- Copper Advances in N.Y. as Inventory, Dollar Declines Boost Metal Demand
-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n   a n d   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-09-28T15:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/copper-advances-in-n-y-as-inventory-dollar-declines-boost-metal-demand.html
Copper prices rose for the fourth
time in five sessions as inventories fell and a weaker U.S.
dollar boosted demand.  Stockpiles  tallied by the London Metal Exchange have
dropped 25 percent this year to the lowest level since November,
a sign of steady consumption. The  dollar  fell to near an eight-
month low against a basket of six major currencies, boosting the
appeal of commodities as alternative assets.  “Copper has shifted from our least-preferred industrial
metal to the most,” analysts at Deutsche Bank AG led by  Michael Lewis  in London said in a quarterly report today.  Copper futures for delivery in December rose 3.1 cents, or
0.9 percent, to $3.628 a pound at 11:31 a.m. on the Comex in New
York.  “Most of the demand for copper has been from emerging
markets like China and India, and LME stocks are still
declining,” said  Frank Lesh , a trader at FuturePath Trading LLC
in Chicago.  Before today, copper gained 31 percent in the past year as
manufacturing accelerated in China, the world’s largest metals
buyer.  Earlier, the metal fell as much as 0.8 percent as reports
showed sluggish U.S. growth and the dollar rose.  Property values in 20 U.S. cities increased at a slower
pace in July from a year earlier and consumer confidence dropped
to a seven-month low, separate reports showed.  “Good U.S. consumer-confidence and house-price data are
crucial for metals and other risk assets to avoid further
losses,” said  David Thurtell , a Citigroup Inc. analyst in
London.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months rose $63,
or 0.8 percent, to $7,973 a metric ton ($3.62 a pound).
Aluminum, lead, nickel, tin and zinc also gained.  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  