-- Copper Slides for a Second Day Before U.S. Home-Price, Confidence Figures
-- B y   A n n a   S t a b l u m
-- 2010-09-28T12:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/copper-slides-for-a-second-day-before-u-s-home-price-confidence-figures.html
Copper fell for a second day in New
York and London before a report that may show cooling house
prices in the U.S., the world’s second-largest user of the
metal.  Property values in 20 cities increased 3.1 percent in July
from a year earlier, below the 4.2 percent gain in the 12 months
to June, according to the median forecast of 28 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Separate figures may show consumer
confidence in the U.S. weakened.  “Good U.S. consumer-confidence and house-price data are
crucial for metals and other risk assets to avoid further losses
today,” said  David Thurtell , a Citigroup Inc. analyst in
London.  Copper for delivery in December dropped 1.8 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $3.579 a pound at 8 a.m. on the Comex in New York.
Copper for delivery in three months slid 0.6 percent to $7,861 a
metric ton at on the London Metal Exchange. All of the six main
metals traded on the LME retreated except tin.  The S&P/Case-Shiller home-price figures are scheduled for
release at 9 a.m. in Washington. Construction accounts for a
quarter of copper demand, according to the Copper Development
Association.  A report from the Conference Board due an hour later may
show its index of consumer confidence slipped to 52.1 from an
August reading of 53.5, according to analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Dollar Movement  Prices slid as the euro weakened against the dollar before
rebounding. Metals “tracked the dollar so far today, coming
under pressure during the morning before stabilizing,”  Leon Westgate , an analyst at Standard Bank Plc in London, said in a
report. A stronger U.S. currency makes dollar-priced metals more
expensive in terms of other monies.  Signs of stronger German consumer confidence suggested that
debt concern was “not affecting consumers in Western Europe’s
largest economy,” Citigroup’s Thurtell said. Market researcher
GfK AG said today its index of German consumer sentiment will
rise to 4.9 from a revised 4.3 in September.  At the same time, consumer confidence fell to the lowest
level in 14 months in South Korea, the Bank of Korea said. The
country is the fourth-largest copper user after China, the U.S.
and Germany.  “Over the last few months, the economic outlook has been
unusually uncertain,” leading physical users of industrial
metals to defer buying,  Tobias Merath , an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, said in a report yesterday. “Now local
stockpiles are depleted and consumers are buying again in the
market,” he said.  Wider Contango  Immediate-delivery copper’s discount to the three-month
price, the so-called contango, widened to $4 a ton from $2.50
yesterday, according to LME figures. The gap was as wide as $16
as of Sept. 15. A shrinking discount for near-term prices in
relation to longer-dated contracts may signal concern about
scarcity.  “The futures curve is flattening, particularly at the
front end, suggesting that physical availability is gradually
drying up,” Merath said. “Accordingly, supply growth is unable
to keep up with demand, leading to a further tightening of the
market balance.”  LME copper stockpiles fell for a second day to 375,275
tons, the lowest level since Nov. 4, daily exchange figures
showed. Inventories posted a 31st weekly drop in a row last week
and have slid 25 percent this year, on course for the first
annual contraction since 2004.  Tin Climbs  Orders to draw copper from inventories, or canceled
warrants, slid for a fifth day, declining 4 percent to 23,300
tons.  Tin for three-month delivery on the LME rose 0.5 percent to
$23,760 a ton. The metal is this year’s best LME performer, up
40 percent, beating the 23 percent advance by closest rival
nickel. LME  inventories  dropped for a third day to 13,500 tons,
the lowest level since May 13, 2009, and down by almost half
since the start of this year.  Cash tin yesterday traded $2 above the three-month
contract, the market’s first so-called backwardation since Sept.
1. Immediate-delivery metal was at a $14 discount to the three-
month price on Sept. 23.  Nickel slid 1 percent to $22,850 a ton. Cash metal’s
backwardation compared with the three-month price yesterday
swelled to $27 a ton, the widest level since Sept. 1, 2009,
according to LME data. Immediate-delivery nickel was at a
discount of $8 as recently as Sept. 22.  Aluminum fell 1.1 percent to $2,269 a ton, lead dropped 0.8
percent to $2,251 a ton and zinc declined 1.7 percent to $2,170
a ton.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 