-- Oil Rises as China Manufacturing, Stockpiles Boost Demand Bets
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2010-09-29T06:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/crude-oil-trades-near-three-day-low-on-gasoline-supply-gain-weak-demand.html
Oil advanced in New York as an
increase in Chinese manufacturing and a decline in U.S. supply
bolstered speculation fuel demand in the world’s two biggest
energy consumers will rise.  Futures retraced yesterday’s 0.4 percent drop after a
purchasing managers’ index showed manufacturing in China, the
fastest-growing major economy, accelerated for a second month.
An Energy Department report today will probably show crude
inventories in the U.S. fell last week, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of analysts.  “There is still reasonable demand out there, and perhaps
the sentiment toward economic optimism is still quite
positive,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of
Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney.  Crude for November delivery rose as much as 52 cents, or
0.7 percent, to $76.70 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. It was at $76.66 at 2:52 p.m.
Singapore time. Yesterday, the contract fell 34 cents to settle
at $76.18, snapping a four-day rally.  Futures are down 3.5 percent this year. For September, the
contract has climbed 6.5 percent and is poised for a 1.2 percent
gain for the third quarter. Oil lost 9.7 percent between April
and June, the first drop in six quarters.  An index of China’s manufacturing released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics rose to 52.9, the highest in
five months, from 51.9 in August. The data are seasonally
adjusted and readings above 50 indicate an expansion. China
overtook the U.S. as the world’s largest energy user last year.  U.S.  crude stockpiles  probably fell 700,000 barrels in the
week ended Sept. 24, according to the median estimate from 14
analysts polled by Bloomberg News before an Energy Department
report today. Supplies previously reached 358.3 million, 13
percent above the five-year average level.  Fuel Demand  Oil, which climbed to a 19-month high of $87.15 a barrel on
May 3, has gained 15 percent in the past year amid speculation
the global economic recovery would boost fuel demand.  Yesterday, the industry-funded American Petroleum Institute
said U.S. crude stockpiles decreased 2.42 million barrels to
361.7 million, the first drawdown in three weeks.  “We should be at $70 a barrel given the supply and where
we are in the year,” said Barratt at Commodity Broking Services.
“The market is doing exceptionally well holding up.”  Motorists in the U.S. bought an average 8.98 million
barrels a day of  gasoline  in the week to Sept. 24, down 0.2
percent from the previous week, MasterCard Inc. said yesterday.
The strongest demand this year was 9.71 million barrels a day
late in May as motorists filled their tanks before the Memorial
Day holiday, the company said in its SpendingPulse report.  Gasoline Supplies  U.S. gasoline inventories climbed 3 million barrels last
week to 230.8 million, the highest since Feb. 26, the API said
yesterday. The Energy Department will report an increase of
350,000 barrels, based on the Bloomberg News survey.  “We would expect to see builds at this time of the year
given the end of the driving season and storage-building ahead
of maintenance season,”  Stephen Schork , president of
consultants The Schork Group Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania,
said in a report today. “But if we see a similarly large build
from the DOE, it will not bode well.”  The API collects stockpile data on a voluntary basis from
operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Brent crude for November settlement rose as much as 54
cents, or 0.7 percent, to $79.25 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. Yesterday, the contract advanced 14
cents, or 0.2 percent, to settle at $78.71.  Atlantic Depression  Tropical storm warnings were issued for parts of Florida,
the Cayman islands, Cuba and the Bahamas as a tropical
depression threatened heavy rains and isolated tornadoes along
its path, according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center.  The storm, about 230 miles (370 kilometers) south-southwest
of Miami, packed maximum winds of 35 miles per hour as it
approached the south coast of Cuba, according to a bulletin
issued yesterday. Thirteen systems, including  seven hurricanes ,
have been named so far this Atlantic storm season, which runs
from June 1 to Nov. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee in Kuala Lumpur at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  