-- Crude Oil Declines as Dollar Rises, Forecasts of U.S. Stockpile Increase
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-09-28T12:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/crude-oil-declines-as-dollar-rises-forecasts-of-u-s-stockpile-increase.html
Oil fell in New York, snapping a
four-day rally as analysts forecast that U.S. gasoline
inventories swelled to their highest levels in six months.  Futures slipped before a U.S. Energy Department report
tomorrow, which may show  gasoline stockpiles  climbed 750,000
barrels last week from 226.1 million. The industry-funded
American Petroleum Institute will release its weekly report on
supply and demand today.  “The trend may be for further weakness, and the stats
later today could provide an excuse for this,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Bache Commodities Ltd. in London.
“There is plenty of crude, and any strength in the market will
be first seen in refined products, particularly if we get an
early winter in the northern hemisphere.”  The November contract lost as much as 99 cents, or 1.3
percent, to $75.53 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, and was at $76 at 1:09 p.m. London
time. Brent crude for November delivery declined 35 cents, or
0.5 percent, to $78.22 a barrel after falling as low as $77.74
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  November Brent’s premium to the corresponding West Texas
Intermediate future in New York narrowed to $2.22 a barrel
today, down from $3.45 a week earlier as inventories contract at
the main delivery point in  Cushing, Oklahoma .  Crude Stockpiles  Crude stockpiles  probably declined  600,000 barrels last
week from 358.3 million, according to the median estimate of
nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Inventories of
distillate fuel, a category that includes heating oil and
diesel, climbed 500,000 barrels, the survey showed.  Refineries probably operated at 87.3 percent of capacity,
down 0.5 percentage point from the previous week, according to
the Bloomberg survey. Operating rates unexpectedly increased 0.2
percentage point in the week ended Sept. 17.  “We really haven’t made any headway into stockpiles,”
said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne. “Activity hasn’t improved.
The crude market followed equity markets overnight.”  Oil may decline based on technical factors used by traders
to judge price movements. Crude closed only 3 cents higher than
its open yesterday, creating what is known as a doji formation,
which uses candle charts to track levels and indicate a reversal
in price direction.  “Yesterday’s tight open-close could qualify as a doji
signal, signifying an end of the uptrend seen last week,”
 Stephen Schork , president of consultants The Schork Group Inc.
in Villanova, Pennsylvania, said in a report today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net 
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  