-- D.E. Shaw Said to Eliminate 10% of Workforce as Assets Decline
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-09-28T22:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/d-e-shaw-hedge-fund-firm-said-to-cut-10-of-workforce-as-assets-decline.html
D.E. Shaw & Co., the hedge-fund
firm founded by  David Shaw , cut 10 percent of its workforce, or
about 150 people, after assets fell by almost half in the past
two years, according to two people familiar with the firings.  “The D.E. Shaw group has taken steps to strengthen our
business and maximize value for our investors over the long
term,” said  Paul Welsh , a spokesman for the New York-based
firm. He declined to comment on the specific actions taken.  The firm oversees $21 billion, down 46 percent from a peak
of $39 billion in 2008, before it limited client withdrawals as
the financial crisis deepened. Its Composite Fund, which uses
computer models to make buy and sell decisions, dropped 3
percent this year through August, compared with the 6.4 percent
gain by the Relative Value Index compiled by Chicago-based Hedge
Fund Research Inc. The fund, D.E. Shaw’s largest, climbed 20
percent in 2009, less than the index’s 26 percent return.  “I think this is an isolated case and not reflective of
trends in the hedge-fund industry at the moment,” said  Ross Baltic , a managing partner at Mercury Partners Inc., a New York-
based recruiting firm whose clients include hedge funds.
“There’s a healthy level of sustainable hiring activity.”  Hedge funds returned 1.45 percent on average this year
through August, according to Hedge Fund Research, compared with
a decline of 4.6 percent by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The
$1.6 trillion industry pulled in a net $23 billion in the first
half. At that rate, 2010 would be the third-worst year for
deposits since 2001.  Redemption Restrictions  The job cuts were reported earlier today on the website of
Institutional Investor magazine.  D.E. Shaw restricted investor withdrawals in November 2008
for both its Composite and Oculus funds, even though the
Composite fund had dropped 11 percent, about half the industry
average, and the Oculus fund was up about 10 percent.  At that time, the firm told clients it had enough cash to
meet withdrawals. Even so, fund executives said they wouldn’t
allow investors to pull their money because the funds’ documents
stipulated that if redemptions reached a certain percentage of
assets, the firm could halt outflows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  