-- Dell Gets Into `Rhythm' on Acquisitions, Altabef Says
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2010-09-29T16:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/dell-is-in-rhythm-for-acquisitions-board-member-altabef-says.html
Dell Inc. , the world’s third-
biggest maker of personal computers, will make acquisitions to
complement internal growth that’s set to exceed the market, said
 Peter Altabef , president of the company’s  services division .  Following the acquisition of Perot Systems Corp. last year,
its biggest-ever purchase, Dell has bought four companies and
plans to seek more. This month, it was beaten by  Hewlett-Packard
Co.  in an 18-day bidding war for data storage provider 3Par Inc.  “We are getting in a mode now where we really do have a
rhythm of how to acquire and integrate companies,” Altabef said
in an interview in Berlin yesterday.  Dell has about $15 billion in cash that it could spend on
acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  told French
newspaper Le Figaro in an interview published yesterday. He may
seek new targets that have technology similar to 3Par’s. Such
companies include Pillar Data Systems Ltd., Xiotech Corp. and
 Compellent Technologies Inc. , according to Roger Cox, an analyst
at Gartner Inc.  Altabef declined to comment on whether one of those
companies might be next on Dell’s list, while saying that the
company wants to continue to make acquisitions and invest
internally in storage capabilities. He said it was Dell’s
“choice” to quit bidding for 3Par.  Dell, based in Round Rock, Texas, climbed 15 cents to
$12.86 at 12:28 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
 trading . The shares had declined 11 percent this year before
today.  Cloud Technology  Dell bought Perot Systems for about $3.9 billion last year
to reduce its reliance on PC  sales . Altabef was the CEO of Perot
Systems, which provides computer services. Since then, Dell has
bought systems-management-appliance company Kace, software maker
Scalent, and data storage companies Exanet and Ocarina Networks.  “We’ve shown discipline in our approach to acquisitions,
and we’ve shown that we’re successfully marching on a path to
bring in companies with particular needs,” he said.  Altabef said technologies such as cloud computing are
“fostering consolidation.”  Cloud technology -- which lets users log onto exactly the
same virtual desktop wherever they are in the world from a
mobile phone, a tablet, a laptop or a desktop -- is one of those
technologies, he said.  With virtual desktop services, data typically resides on a
remote server, so having data storage centers is becoming more
important.  “There is a certain amount of scale associated with these
trends and there is a certain amount of convergence of hardware,
software and services,” Altabef said.  High Prices  To do a virtualized desktop correctly, companies need the
hardware, the software and the service ability to make sure that
it integrates and works, he said.  “So there are some trends that would point to this kind of
consolidation,” he said.  He said that while some price tags for companies may appear
high, “the market tends to react by companies developing more
capabilities” in the areas that are particularly in demand.  “I would expect that we’ll see a bevy of companies working
very hard in such areas as storage, which are clearly things
that are becoming more and more important,” Altabef said.
“It’s clearly an area that will grow in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ragnhild Kjetland  in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Vidya Root at
   vroot@bloomberg.net  