-- Dividend Deals Most Since 2007 as Loans Heat Up: Credit Markets
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2010-09-28T14:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/dividend-deals-most-since-2007-as-leveraged-loans-heat-up-credit-markets.html
Speculative-grade companies are
borrowing to finance dividend payments to their private-equity
owners at the fastest rate since before the credit crisis,
taking advantage of investor demand for high relative yields.  Banks arranged or started marketing $8.77 billion of high-
risk, high-yield loans slated for shareholder payouts this
quarter, bringing 2010’s total to $17.1 billion, more than five
times the amount of the past two years combined, according to
Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and Data.  Private-equity firms, facing a jump in taxes on capital
gains next year and a slumping market for initial public
offerings, are saddling their companies with more debt as the
U.S. economic recovery slows. Last week, landscaping company
Brickman Group Holdings Inc., which is owned by Los Angeles-
based Leonard Green & Partners LP, started raising $550 million
of loans to refinance debt and pay a dividend.  “We’re going to see record-breaking transactions as the
fourth quarter rolls in,” said  Robert Willens , president of
Robert Willens LLC, who previously was a managing director in
charge of tax and accounting analysis at Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. “Companies are in the process of setting up
dividend programs now so that they can get them implemented by
the end of the year.”  Tax Increase  Taxes on dividends are slated to jump to 39.6 percent next
year from the current 15 percent, which was adopted in 2003 by
former-President  George W. Bush  and a Republican-controlled
Congress. President  Barack Obama ’s budget, sent to Congress Feb.
26, would limit the increase to 20 percent.  Dividend deals make up 11 percent of this year’s $161
billion of institutional leveraged-loan issuance, double last
year’s total and $3.86 billion more than in 2008, according to
S&P LCD.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar maturity
government debt rose 1 basis point to 173 basis points, or 1.73
percentage point, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate Index. The index narrowed from 181
basis points at the end of August and 196 in June. Yields
averaged 3.45 percent, the lowest since Aug. 24.  BP Plc  is planning its first bond sale since a rig
explosion caused an estimated 4.9 million barrels of crude oil
to spew into the Gulf of Mexico in the largest offshore U.S.
spill in history. The energy company may sell about $2 billion
in debt, similar in size to an offering last August, according
to BP spokesman  Robert Wine  in London. BP plans to issue 5- and
10-year notes through BP Capital Markets Plc, it said today in a
regulatory filing that didn’t specify the sale’s size or timing.  Investment-Grade Status  BP has regained its investment-grade status in the eyes of
credit investors more than two months after containing the leak,
which was caused by an April 20 explosion on a rig in the Gulf.
Credit-default swap prices, which soared to levels implying the
debt was junk-rated after the explosion, last week declined to
imply a rating of Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, the lowest
step of investment-grade.  No oil has leaked from the well since July 15. Credit-
default swaps protecting against losses on BP debt for five
years have declined to 191.6 basis points as of 8:37 a.m. in New
York, from at least 631 basis points on June 16, according to
data provider CMA.  Markit CDX Index  A benchmark indicator of corporate credit risk in the U.S.
rose for the fifth time in six days. Credit-default swaps on the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors
use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 1.1 basis points to a mid-price of
111.01 basis points at 10:20 a.m. in New York, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, began a new series Sept.
20 at 108.4 basis points.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  rose to 90.25
cents on the dollar yesterday, the highest since May 19.  Leveraged buyouts climbed to $85.2 billion this year from
$39.3 billion in the first nine months of 2009, Bloomberg data
show. While companies have raised $19.2 billion in initial
public offerings this year, up 85 percent from 2009, that’s
below the $67.5 billion recorded in the first three quarters of
2007, nine days before the S&P 500 Index peaked.  Brickman joined SK Capital Partners LP’s Ascend Performance
Materials, J.W. Childs Associates LP-owned CHG Healthcare
Services Inc., Hilex Poly Co. and Angelica Corp. in seeking
leveraged loans this quarter for shareholder payouts, Bloomberg
data show.  Brickman Loan  Based in Gaithersburg, Maryland, Brickman is offering
lenders an interest rate 575 basis points more than the
benchmark London interbank offered rate, with a 1.75 percent
Libor floor, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The average new-issue spread for loans of companies
with similar ratings of B+ or B was 487 basis points as of Sept.
16, according to S&P LCD.  The proposed $500 million six-year term loan B portion is
expected to price at 98 cents on the dollar, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the terms are private.
That would boost the yield to investors to about 8 percent.  “Investors are looking at dividends and given the use of
proceeds they are seeking higher yields compared to similar-
rated LBO credits,” said  Douglas Antonacci , New York-based head
of primary loan sales at Bank of America Corp. “The market is
healthy and receptive, it’s also discerning. You’re looking at
the market pricing risk differently.”  ‘Yield Starved’  Dividend deals rose from $880 million last year and $2.4
billion in 2008, which was down 94 percent from 2007, S&P LCD
data show.  “You should be getting paid a premium yield for dividend
deals,” said  Cliff Noreen , president of Babson Capital
Management LLC, which oversees $128.9 billion of assets. “We’re
in an environment today where investors are yield starved.”  The S&P/LSTA Leveraged Loan Index, representing about 95
percent of the institutional U.S. bank debt market, gained 6.51
percent this year. That compares with a total return of 3.94
percent on the S&P 500 Index and 11.3 percent on  Bank of America
Merrill Lynch ’s US High Yield Master II Index. So-called
institutional loans are sold to investors such as collateralized
loan obligations, mutual funds and hedge funds.  ‘Return Expectations’  “You look at the return expectations for leveraged loans
relative to other risk asset classes and they look very
compelling, especially compared with equities,” Noreen said.
“Dividend deals now are somewhat different than they were at
the top of the market in 2006-2007. Private-equity firms
probably have a better understanding of how companies will fare
under a stressed economic environment and how much debt they can
reasonably support.”  U.S. economic growth slowed to an annualized pace of 1.6
percent during the second quarter from 3.7 percent during the
first three months of this year.  The world’s biggest economy expanded at an average rate of
2.6 percent from the end of the previous recession in November
2001 until December 2007. It will match that pace by the second
quarter of next year, said economists surveyed from Sept. 1 to
Sept. 8.  “In a low-growth economic environment, you can pick up a
secured floating-rate instrument with decent yield and call
protection and be pretty comfortable taking that risk,”
Antonacci said. “The post-Labor Day LBO calendar that everybody
was gearing up for has obviously made it through; the next few
deals to come to market have been dividend recaps, potentially
the start of a trend.”  -- With assistance from  Sapna Maheshwari ,  Mary Childs ,  Tim Catts ,  Shannon D. Harrington  in New York,  Haris Anwar  and
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai,  Phil Mattingly  in Washington,  Sonja Cheung ,  Abigail Moses  and  Caroline Hyde  in London and  Ed Johnson 
in Sydney. Editors:  Faris Khan ,  Chapin Wright   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  