-- Dollar Trades Near Five-Month Low Against Euro; Fed May Ease to Aid Growth
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-09-28T23:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/dollar-trades-near-five-month-low-against-euro-fed-may-ease-to-aid-growth.html
The dollar traded near a five-month
low against the euro on speculation the Federal Reserve will add
to monetary easing to bolster the U.S.’s slowing economy.  The dollar was set for a quarterly loss against all 16
major counterparts before a report forecast to show U.S.
business activity slowed. The yen was near the strongest versus
the dollar since the Bank of Japan intervened to weaken the
currency as the central bank’s Tankan survey today is forecast
to show a slowing pace of improvement in business confidence,
spurring demand for the yen as a haven.  “Expectations for additional monetary easing linger amid
the U.S. economic uncertainty,” said  Kazuya Yashiro , currency
analyst at Himawari Securities, Inc. in Tokyo. “The dollar is
in a firm downtrend.”  The dollar was at $1.3577 per euro as of 8:11 a.m. in Tokyo
from $1.3585 in New York yesterday, when it touched $1.3596, the
weakest since April 15. The yen traded at 83.91 per dollar from
83.87. It reached 83.69 per dollar yesterday, the highest level
since Sept. 15, when Japan sold its currency. The euro was
unchanged at 113.94 yen, after reaching 114.02 yen yesterday,
the strongest since Aug. 3.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. is
forecast to report tomorrow that its business barometer fell to
55.7 this month from 56.7 in August, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Figures
greater than 50 signal expansion.  Tankan Survey  The dollar depreciated 9.9 percent versus the euro this
quarter in the worst performance among the European currency’s
16 major counterparts. The greenback has pared this year’s
advance to 5.5 percent.  A quarterly index of sentiment at Japan’s large
manufacturers rose 6 points in September, the least since March
2009, according to the median forecast of 19 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. The Tankan report is due at 8:50 a.m. today
in Tokyo.  Japan’s current-account surplus means the country doesn’t
need to rely on foreign capital to fund a trade deficit, making
the currency a haven in times of economic crisis.  “As the economy deteriorates, the BOJ may find it easier
to do additional monetary easing,” said  Takuji Okubo , chief
Japan economist at Societe Generale SA in Tokyo. “Any action by
the BOJ is likely to be a yen-negative factor.”  The Ministry of Finance in Tokyo will report tomorrow the
amount of yen the central bank sold from Aug. 28 through Sept.
28 to curb the appreciation of the currency. Demand for the yen
has been tempered by speculation Japan will sell its currency
again.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 