-- Dollar Near Five-Month Low Versus Euro as Fed May Signal Additional Easing
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-09-28T05:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/dollar-near-five-month-low-versus-euro-as-fed-may-signal-additional-easing.html
The dollar traded near a five-month
low against the euro on speculation Federal Reserve officials
will signal this week their readiness to take more credit-easing
steps.  The greenback was near a two-week low against the yen
before reports forecast to show home U.S. prices dropped for the
first time in four months and consumer confidence weakened. The
yen rose against 14 of its 16 major counterparts as Asian stock
losses boosted demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge. The
Australian dollar was close to its strongest level in two years
on prospects the central bank will increase benchmark interest
rates next week.  “There are lingering worries over the sustainability of
America’s recovery,” said  Yoh Nihei , a Tokyo-based trading
group manager at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co. “Expectations for
lower U.S. rates may keep the dollar under downward pressure.”  The dollar traded at $1.3456 per euro as of 6:45 a.m. in
London from $1.3455 in New York yesterday, when it dropped to
$1.3507, the lowest level since April 20. The greenback was at
84.24 yen from 84.29 yen yesterday, when it declined to 84.12
yen, the weakest since Sept. 15. The euro bought 113.35 yen from
113.41 yen.  The U.S. currency has fallen 9 percent versus the euro this
quarter, the worst performance among 16 major counterparts and
paring this year’s advance to 6.7 percent.  Fed Reserve Bank of Atlanta President Dennis Lockhart will
speak on the U.S. economic outlook today, and Fed Reserve Bank
of Minneapolis President Narayana Kocherlakota will discuss the
economic outlook and monetary policy in London tomorrow.  The Fed said on Sept. 21 it is prepared to do more to help
the economy, fueling speculation policy makers will add
securities to the central bank’s holdings by increasing their
Treasury purchases, a plan known as quantitative easing, or QE.  ‘Lingering Concerns’  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values fell 0.1
percent in July, according to the median estimate of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. The Conference Board’s U.S. consumer
confidence index declined to 52.1 this month from 53.5 in
August, according to another survey.  Gains in the euro may stall ahead of major resistance at
the $1.3510 level, based on trading patterns, according to
Nomura Australia Ltd. in Sydney.  “If you’ve got some lingering concerns with Ireland and
Portugal, you’re not exactly going to be a big buyer of the euro
against the dollar,” said  Kurt Magnus , executive director of
foreign exchange sales at Nomura Australia.  The $1.3510 level is 50 percent retracement of the euro’s
fall from the November high to the June low, based on a series
of numbers known as the Fibonacci sequence. Resistance is where
sell orders may be clustered.  ‘Doubts About Strength’  Ireland will disclose this week the final cost to bail out
 Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan , who said
Sept. 22 the costs will be “manageable,” is scheduled to
publish the latest estimates by Oct. 1.  The bank’s senior debt was cut to the lowest investment
grade rating by Moody’s Investors Service, which said it may
reduce the rating to junk unless the government guarantees
bondholders against losses. The ratings company cut the lender’s
senior unguaranteed debt to Baa3 from A3, Moody’s said in a
statement yesterday.  “The risk of some retracement is growing as news headlines
bring back to the fore some of the doubts about the strength of
the European banking system,” analysts led by  Hans-Guenter Redeker , London-based global head of foreign-exchange strategy
at BNP Paribas SA, wrote in a note yesterday. “The risk is for
yen crosses to remain under pressure.”  Share Decline  The yen was supported as the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  of
regional shares fell 0.5 percent. The currency tends to
strengthen during financial and economic turmoil as Japan’s
trade surplus makes it less reliant on foreign capital.  The yen has risen 6.6 percent this year against a basket
of currencies from 10 developed-world nations, the best
performer of the group, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes.  The Bank of Japan’s  Tankan survey , a quarterly  index  of
sentiment at large manufacturers, advanced by 6 points in
September, the smallest gain since March 2009, according to the
median forecast of 19 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News
before tomorrow’s report.  The Australian dollar was set for its biggest monthly gain
since May 2009 against the greenback. RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens 
will raise borrowing costs to 4.75 percent next week, according
to the median  estimate  of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Australia Rates  “The Aussie has been underpinned by the interest-rate
outlook and general weakness in the U.S. dollar because of the
potential for quantitative easing from the Fed,” said  Derek Mumford , a Sydney-based director at Rochford Capital, a currency
and rates risk management firm. “You have to buy dips.”  Australia’s currency traded at 95.96 U.S. cents from 96.09
cents yesterday, when it reached 96.45 cents, the most since
July 2008. It has risen 8.1 percent this month and 16 percent
since June 30. The currency fetched 80.82 yen from 81 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 