-- Dubai Says Canceled Half of Planned Real Estate Projects on Weak Demand
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2010-09-28T08:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/dubai-says-canceled-half-of-planned-real-estate-projects-on-weak-demand.html
Dubai’s government canceled almost
half of the real estate projects planned in the emirate after
the credit crisis caused demand to collapse and a housing glut
drove down home prices.  Out of 980 registered projects, 495 were scrapped or are in
the process of being cancelled by the emirate’s Real Estate
Regulatory Agency the government said in a bond prospectus
posted on the London Stock Exchange website yesterday.  The cancellations have been prompted by “liquidity
shortages for developers, decreasing headline real estate prices
and rental rates, and increasing market uncertainty and negative
sentiment,” the government said in the  prospectus .  Forty-six property projects have been completed since 2008
and another 307 will be finished “in due course,” the
government said without naming the projects.  The deepest global financial crisis since the 1930s led
Dubai property prices to drop by at least 50 percent from the
2008 peak and forced builders to delay or cancel projects worth
about $330 billion, Dubai-based market researcher Proleads
estimated in April.  Values may drop another 20 percent as 41,000 new homes are
put on the market by the end of this year aggravating an
existing glut, said  Ahmed Badr , a Dubai-based analyst for Credit
Suisse Group AG.  Nakheel PJSC, the developer of palm-shaped islands off
Dubai’s coast, today announced plans to resume work on the
Garden View villas project. The 134 townhouses are expected to
be completed in the third quarter of 2011, it said. Last week,
the developer restarted construction work in its Al Furjan
project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 