-- Dubai Shares Fall a 2nd Day on Concern September Gains Overdone; Oil Drops
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-09-28T12:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/dubai-shares-fall-a-2nd-day-on-concern-september-gains-overdone-oil-drops.html
Dubai shares declined for a second
day on speculation gains this month are overdone and as global
markets fell on concern that economic growth may slow. Crude oil
dropped, ending a four-day rally.  Emaar Properties PJSC  retreated 0.8 percent after the
builder of the world’s tallest tower postponed a board meeting.
Gulf News reported Indian officials blamed Emaar’s local unit
for poor facilities at the Commonwealth Games village. The share
have surged 16 percent this month.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC,  the
biggest shariah-compliant lender in the United Arab Emirates,
decreased for the first time in four days. The  DFM General Index 
slipped 0.5 percent to 1,690.19 at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai,
trimming the gain for September to 14 percent.  “Keeping in mind September’s strong performance for the
market, it is natural to see profit-taking,” said  Marwan Shurrab , assistant fund manager and chief trader at Gulfmena
Alternative Investments Ltd. in Dubai. “We follow international
markets, so if they sell off, we sell off. Nevertheless the
bullish sentiment is still intact.”  European stocks slipped for a second day before reports
that may show gains in American home prices slowed in July and
consumer confidence this month cooled. Crude oil declined after
analysts forecast an increase in U.S. gasoline supplies,
signaling demand recovery in the world’s largest crude user may
falter. Oil retreated as much as 1.3 percent to $75.53 a barrel.
The six nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council supply about a
fifth of the world’s oil.  Emaar MGF  Dubai’s measure jumped 6.2 percent since Dubai World, one
of three main holding companies, said Sept. 10 that 99 percent
of creditors agreed to alter the terms on $24.9 billion of debt.
Twenty-one shares including Emaar were added to the FTSE’s
Global Equity Index after the close on Sept. 17 as the U.A.E.
was classified as a secondary emerging market, also helping push
up local stocks this month.  Emaar retreated to 3.77 dirhams. The company postponed its
board meeting until tomorrow to discuss its performance and
matters of “importance.”  Delhi Chief Minister  Sheila Dikshit  and organizing
committee chairman Suresh Kalmadi have blamed Emaar MGF for
problems at the Commonwealth games village, Gulf News reported
today. Emaar MGF said housekeeping issues by the organizers are
behind the “current controversy.”  Dubai Islamic, up 24 percent in September, slipped 1.7
percent to 2.30 dirhams.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  dropped 0.2 percent, Saudi
Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  fell 0.7 percent and Bahrain’s
 gauge  retreated 0.2 percent. Oman’s  MSM 30 Index  lost 0.3
percent and Abu Dhabi’s  measure  slipped 0.1 percent. Qatar’s
 index  rose 0.2 percent and the  Kuwait SE Price Index  gained 0.6
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 