-- Dubai Government Said to Raise $1 Billion in 2 Part 5 to 10-Year Bond Sale
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b ,   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2010-09-28T15:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/dubai-government-10-year-bonds-may-yield-about-8-people-familiar-say.html
Dubai may raise $1 billion in a
two-part bond sale in its first sovereign issue since the Dubai
World credit crisis, according to a banker and an investor
involved in the deal.  The Persian Gulf financial hub’s 5-year, $500-million issue
may be priced to yield about 6.75 percent, according to the
people with knowledge of transaction. The similar size 10-year
note may be priced to yield about 7.875 percent, they said,
declining to be identified because the information hasn’t been
made public. Dubai’s 6.396 percent Islamic bonds maturing 2014
were yielding at 6.403 percent, down one basis point, at 6:31
p.m. in the emirate, according to prices on Bloomberg.  “We think the pricing on the five-year looks tight,”
 Stuart Culverhouse , London-based chief economist at investment
bank Exotix Ltd. said by e-mail today. “New issues are being
well received by the market at the moment, so this will attract
demand, and of course, Abu Dhabi backstops credit risk.”  Emerging market bond sales have raised $75.5 billion so far
this month, an increase of 38 percent compared with September
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Dubai’s sale will
be the first by the emirate after state-owned holding company
Dubai World announced plans in November to delay payments on
$24.9 billion of debt, roiling global markets.  Pakistan Bond  The sheikhdom borrowed $20 billion last year from wealthier
neighbor Abu Dhabi, which holds about 7 percent of the world’s
proven oil reserves, and the U.A.E. government. Some of Dubai’s
state-owned companies have struggled to repay debt after frozen
credit markets prevented them from raising new loans and as
property prices fell.  The yield on the emirate’s 10-year note compares with
Pakistan’s similar maturity 6.875 percent dollar bond that was
yielding 8.874 percent today, according to Bloomberg composite
prices. Pakistan has a B3 rating, the sixth-lowest non-
investment grade, at Moody’s Investors Service. Dubai has yet to
seek a credit rating.  The sheikhdom’s government last sold bonds in October 2009,
when the Department of Finance raised $1.93 billion from five-
year Islamic notes. In the same month, the emirate set up a $2.5
billion Islamic medium-term note program and a $4 billion plan
to sell regular bonds.  Borrowings  Dubai hired  Deutsche Bank AG ,  HSBC Holdings Plc  and
 Standard Chartered Plc  as joint lead managers for a dollar bond
offering, the government said in a statement yesterday. The
sheikhdom expects the notes to be sold subject to market
conditions, with the money used for the general budget, it said.  Dubai World said Sept. 10 creditors holding more than 99
percent of the value of its loans approved its restructuring
plan. The emirate borrowed $109.3 billion as it transformed
itself into a financial, logistics and tourism hub, with about
$15.5 billion of debt due this year, the International Monetary
Fund estimates.  The Dubai Department of Finance held a series of investor
meetings in Asia in August and in Europe in June aimed at
providing updates to existing and prospective bondholders around
the world on the emirate’s economy, it said at the time.  Dubai Electricity & Water Authority was the last
government-owned entity to tap capital markets since the Dubai
World debt announcement. The utility sold $1 billion of five-
year bonds with a yield of 8.5 percent in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net 
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net .
Claudia Maedler at 
Claudiamaedler. 