-- Dudley's Safety Mandate Risks Hobbling BP Exploration Success
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2010-09-29T07:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/dudley-s-safety-mandate-risks-bp-s-industry-beating-oil-exploration-record.html
Robert Dudley , who becomes chief
executive officer at  BP Plc  this week, will try to convince
investors he can improve safety without hampering the industry’s
most efficient oil exploration business.  BP has the lowest costs for finding and developing oil and
gas among its peers during the last five years, averaging $7.70
a barrel, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It replaced more
reserves through exploration --rather than acquisitions -- than
Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Chevron Corp.,
according to research by JPMorgan Cazenove.  Dudley, 55, has to repair a corporate reputation ruined by
the accidents that contributed to the departures of his two
predecessors. The Gulf of Mexico disaster, caused by an
explosion in an exploration well, wiped 38 percent off the
company’s  market value  after  Tony Hayward  pledged a “laser-like
focus” on safety.  John Browne  left BP following a deadly blast
at a Texas refinery and pipeline leaks in Alaska.  “There will be a different BP that comes out of this,”
said  Lucy Haskins , an oil equity analyst at Barclays Capital in
London. “The risk is that it won’t have the appetite to be as
bold as it has been historically.”  Dudley is likely to shake up BP’s management after he
starts in the top job.  Andy Inglis , BP’s head of exploration and
production, is likely to leave his role, Sky News reported
yesterday, without saying where it got the information. An
announcement is expected in the next few days, Sky said.  BP spokesman Robert Wine declined to comment on the report.  Chairman Svanberg  “It’s for Bob to think about how he wants to form his
leadership team,” Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  said in a
Bloomberg Television interview on July 27.  BP’s  upstream business , the part that finds crude, ranked
fifth overall out of 12 oil and gas companies in the decade to
2009, based on output, discoveries, efficient use of capital and
profit margins, JPMorgan said in a Sept. 23 report. The
company’s stock performance ranked last.  Analysts say BP has scope to recover from the Gulf spill.
Twenty-eight give the shares a “buy” recommendation, 12 a
“hold” and two call it a “sell,” according to a data
compiled by  Bloomberg . The average target price is 532 pence, 31
percent above yesterday’s close of 405.15 pence in London
trading. At Exxon Mobil, 43 percent of analysts recommend buying
the stock, while Shell has 68 percent “buy” ratings from
analysts, the data show.  BP rose as much as 1.9 percent to 412.9 pence in London
today and traded at 412 pence at 8:12 a.m. local time.  ‘Beyond Profit’  Dudley, the first American chief and the first who didn’t
spend his entire career at BP, takes over Oct. 1.  “Dealing with the public image is the number one priority
from an investor standpoint,” said David Henderson, a lecturer
in corporate leadership at the London School of Economics.
“They’re going to have to turn around their culture to think
about the long-term consequences of their decisions beyond just
profit. Leadership will always look for cost efficiencies, but
they’re not going to be able to touch safety.”  Dudley will also decide whether to maintain a slimmer BP or
to rebuild it to its size before the crisis, Barclays’s Haskins
said. BP pledged to sell as much as $30 billion in assets to pay
for the Gulf spill. It  has already reaped  more than $10 billion
from disposals in the U.S., Canada, Egypt, Colombia and
Malaysia.  Hayward said July 27 that the company may shed 8 percent to
10 percent of its production capacity, bringing total output to
about 3.5 million barrels of oil equivalent from 3.8 million
barrels a day in the second quarter.  Reverse Increases  The selloff will reverse increases in reserves. BP on
average replaced in new reserves 130 percent of the oil and gas
pumped each year from 2000 to 2009, placing it second behind BG
Group Plc, according to JPMorgan analysts  Fred Lucas  and  Nitin Sharma .  “It is in their interest to continue as planned for
exploration commitments where they can,” said  Jason Kenney ,
head of oil and gas research at ING Commercial Banking in
Edinburgh. “Proving up reserves is still a core part of long-
term value delivery, and their skill set is still very capable
in this regard.”  BP this year declined to seek exploration licenses in
Greenland, Denmark’s island territory whose waters may hold 50
billion barrels of crude and gas, the U.S. Geological Survey
estimates.  Cairn Energy Plc  reported its first oil discovery
there on Sept. 21. Exxon and Chevron own rights in the area.  Gulf Coast  Dudley, who grew up close to the Gulf of Mexico in
Hattiesburg, Mississippi, may begin his tenure by trying to
secure BP’s U.S. future. Dudley spent half of his career at
Amoco Corp. before it was acquired by BP in 1998.  The Gulf accounts for more than 10 percent of BP’s
production. A probe by U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  may
lead to suspension of well operating licenses and debarment from
government contracts under U.S. pollution law, BP said.  Dudley will have to rebuild BP’s image both inside and
outside of the company, said Gerard George, a professor of
innovation and entrepreneurship at Imperial College in London.
That means strengthening accountability for management decisions
and rethinking the approach to risk, he said.  “You need leadership by example, and Dudley’s the person
for it,” George said in a telephone interview. “He’s
innovative and open to new ideas. But changing a company’s
culture takes time, probably two to three years for new ideas to
gain traction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  