-- Dutch to Complete Talks on Cabinet Backed by Anti-Islamist Freedom Party
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2010-09-28T10:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/dutch-to-complete-talks-on-cabinet-backed-by-anti-islamist-freedom-party.html
The Dutch Liberal Party and the
Christian Democratic Alliance intend to reach an agreement today
on forming a government with support from the anti-Islam Freedom
Party, creating the Netherlands’ first minority administration
since World War II.  The three parties resume talks this afternoon in The Hague
and expect to complete them during the day, the government
information service said in an e-mailed statement. Party leaders
plan to submit the accord to their lawmakers for approval
tomorrow before reporting back on Sept. 30 to Ivo Opstelten, who
chairs the negotiations on behalf of  Queen Beatrix .  It’s taken three attempts to form a coalition following the
inconclusive June 9 election. The proposed government, to be
headed by Liberal leader  Mark Rutte , would have a combined 52
seats in the lower house of parliament and rely on the 24
lawmakers from the Freedom Party, led by  Geert Wilders , to give
it the smallest possible majority in the 150-seat chamber.  “This is new for the Netherlands; it’s an experiment,”
Kees Aarts, a professor of political science at the  University
of Twente  in Enschede, said in a telephone interview.  Austerity measures have been the most important issue on
political leaders’ agenda, with the Netherlands, the fifth-
largest economy in the euro region, needing to narrow its budget
deficit from almost 6 percent of gross domestic product this
year to 3 percent by 2013 to meet EU rules.  Budget Cuts  Outgoing Prime Minister  Jan Peter Balkenende ’s caretaker
government presented its 2011 budget last week, including a
reduction in spending. While the cuts will help narrow next
year’s budget shortfall to 4 percent of GDP, further reductions
are needed to trim the deficit, Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said.  Wilders’s party more than doubled its representation in
parliament at the election, while the Christian Democrats, who
were led into the vote by Balkenende, lost half of their
support. Rutte’s party is the largest in the new parliament.  The Freedom Party seeks to ban new mosques, curb
immigration, cut development aid and reduce European Union
influence in the Netherlands. Wilders, 47, receives police
protection around the clock and faces trial next week on charges
of inciting hatred in his 2008 film “Fitna,” in which he calls
on Muslims to rip out “hate-preaching” verses from the Koran.  Although the Freedom Party leader won’t be a part of the
government, Wilders’s involvement may hurt Dutch diplomatic and
business interests abroad. “Fitna” sparked protests in
majority-Muslim countries including Indonesia and Pakistan and
led to calls for the boycott of Dutch products in Malaysia and
Iran.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 