-- Medvedev Fires Moscow Mayor Luzhkov After Conflict
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-09-28T14:46:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/medvedev-fires-moscow-s-mayor-yury-luzhkov-citing-a-loss-of-confidence-.html
Dmitry Medvedev  fired Moscow Mayor
 Yury Luzhkov  after 18 years in office, opening the way for the
Russian president to put his own person in charge of the capital
as the country prepares for national elections next year.  Luzhkov was removed after three weeks of headlines accusing
him of corruption and favoritism toward his wife, billionaire
developer  Yelena Baturina . After returning from a week-long
vacation, Luzhkov yesterday refused to step down in the face of
Kremlin pressure. He denies any wrongdoing.  Medvedev cited a “loss of confidence” in Luzhkov as the
reason for the dismissal in a  decree  posted on the Kremlin’s
website today. He named  Vladimir Resin , a Luzhkov deputy, as
acting mayor.  Luzhkov, 74, is the last long-serving regional leader to be
ousted as Medvedev and Prime Minister  Vladimir  Putin increase
the power of the central government. His departure comes as
Russia prepares for parliamentary elections next year and a 2012
presidential contest in which Putin, 57, may seek to return to
the Kremlin at the expense of Medvedev, his protege.  A former chemical engineer, Luzhkov established “absolute
financial and administrative power” in Moscow after the late
President  Boris Yeltsin  picked him to replace  Gavriil Popov  in
1992, said  Nikolai Zlobin  of the Washington-based  World Security
Institute .  ‘Monopoly on Power’  “He was a good mayor when he succeeded Popov,” Zlobin
said in an interview. “But a monopoly on power corrupts even
good men.” The firing is an “epochal event” that may
undermine stability in the capital as the new mayor grapples
with a machine that Luzhkov built over two decades, he said.  Putin said Luzhkov is a “significant figure” and “did a
lot” to develop Moscow, “but it’s utterly obvious the Moscow
mayor’s relationship with the president didn’t work out.”  “The mayor is subordinate to the president, not the other
way around,” Putin told reporters on a trip to Syktyvkar in
northern Russia today. “So the necessary steps should have been
taken in a timely fashion to smooth out this situation.”  Putin said he and Medvedev would discuss possible
candidates to replace Luzhkov.  The new mayor will inherit a city with a budget of 1
trillion rubles ($32.8 billion) and that accounted for about 24
percent of Russia’s gross domestic product in 2008, according to
government data. National media have focused on a handful of
possible successors, including Deputy Prime Minister  Sergei Sobyanin  and Emergency Situations Minister  Sergei Shoigu .  Luzhkov Ally  Resin, a 74-year-old Luzhkov ally, will run the city until
Medvedev nominates a permanent replacement, Timakova said. The
president is preparing a list of candidates for the post, which
must be approved by the Moscow city council. Putin eliminated
direct elections for governors and mayors of the biggest cities
in 2004, when he was president.  Luzhkov’s dismissal is the first time Medvedev invoked his
power to remove a governor in whom he has lost confidence.  “I don’t rule out the possibility that such cases may
happen again,” Medvedev, 45, said in Shanghai. “It depends on
the specific situation.”  Changing mayors now will give Luzhkov’s successor time to
build his own power base before the elections, said Dmitry
Orlov, director of the Moscow-based Agency for Political and
Economic Communications.  Luzhkov consistently delivered Moscow for the Kremlin at
election time, including 71.5 percent for Medvedev in the 2008
presidential ballot, when the city’s almost  7 million registered
voters  accounted for 6.5 percent of the  national total ,
according to the Central Election Commission.  No ‘Angel’  Luzhkov “revived” Moscow after the economic collapse that
accompanied the demise of the Soviet Union in 1991, said
Alexander Khinshtein, a United Russia lawmaker in Russia’s lower
house of parliament.  “He isn’t a saint or an angel,” said Khinshtein, who
describes himself as “close” to the mayor. “But I wouldn’t
wish the task of replacing Luzhkov on anyone, because they’ll
always be compared with him. He’s a rare national politician who
has maintained the luxury of having his own position.”  Standard & Poor’s said Luzhkov’s firing will have “no
immediate effect” on Moscow’s BBB credit rating. The ruble was
little changed at 30.5463 per dollar as of 4:56 p.m. in Moscow,
compared with 30.5358 late yesterday.  Luzhkov entered city government in 1987. As mayor he won
re-election three times. Luzhkov was named to a new four-year
term in 2007 that was scheduled to end next year.  Architectural Heritage  As mayor, Luzhkov oversaw a construction boom that
transformed Moscow with new highways and a proliferation of
high-rise office and residential buildings, such as developer
 Don-Stroi ’s 264.3-meter (867-foot)  Triumf-Palas  apartment tower
reminiscent of Soviet-era skyscrapers.  He also faced accusations of destroying the city’s
architectural heritage and favoring Inteco, his wife’s
development company.  Billionaire  Alexander Lebedev , a Luzhkov critic, said the
mayor and Baturina’s main asset was the power “to permit or
deny permission” for projects in Moscow.  Baturina has denied getting special treatment from her
husband’s government. Inteco won only one city building tender
and was forced to abandon it because local authorities didn’t
meet their obligations. All of Inteco’s other deals were with
the federal government or private people, she said in an
 interview  published on Sept. 20 in news magazine The New Times.  ‘Independent Figure’  Luzhkov said on Sept. 18 that he had never given preference
to Inteco and that Baturina would be “even richer” if she
hadn’t been the mayor’s wife, RIA Novosti reported.  Even critics of the mayor such as  Sergei Mitrokhin , a
leader of the opposition Yabloko party, admit that he improved
the lives of many Muscovites during his tenure, particularly by
developing welfare benefits for veterans and the elderly.  “I’ve always opposed Luzhkov, but at least he was an
independent figure who was elected several times,” Mitrokhin
said. “The next mayor won’t be dependent on the people, and
this is unacceptable. Moscow can’t be ruled by the Kremlin’s
marionette.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Syktyvkar at  iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
 Lyubov Pronina  in Shanghai at  lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  