-- Egypt's Budget Gap Likely to Beat Target, Shrinking to 7.5%, Minister Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2010-09-28T09:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/egypt-s-budget-gap-likely-to-narrow-to-7-5-of-gdp-boutros-ghali-says.html
The Egyptian government is on
course to beat its budget deficit target for the second straight
year as the economy recovers from the global financial crisis,
Finance Minister  Youssef Boutros-Ghali  said.  The shortfall will “very likely” decline to 7.5 percent
of gross domestic product in the fiscal year through June from
8.1 percent in the previous 12 months, Boutros-Ghali told an
investment conference in Cairo today. The official target for
the deficit is 7.9 percent.  Today’s estimate “is a very ambitious target,”  Alia Mamdouh , an economist at investment bank CI Capital, said in an
interview at the conference. “I expect revenue to pick up, but
I am not expecting expenditure to slow down significantly.” She
is forecasting a deficit of 8 percent of GDP.  The  International Monetary Fund  advised Egypt in February
to reduce the shortfall by 1.5 percent to 2 percent of gross
domestic product this fiscal year, to signal its commitment to
bringing the gap to 3 percent by 2015.  “Unless a strong signal is sent out to investors that the
government will meet its target for budget deficit reduction,
one might lose confidence in broader macroeconomic stability,”
said Ania Thiemann, senior economist at the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  The government relies mostly on borrowing from domestic
banks to finance the deficit “and it does tend to crowd out
lending to the private sector,” she said at the conference.  6 Percent Growth  The economy of the most populous Arab country may grow 6
percent or more this year, Boutros-Ghali said, echoing a similar
forecast that Prime Minister  Ahmed Nazif  made on Sept. 23.
Growth will be mainly driven by domestic demand, the finance
minister said.  “During the crisis we discovered that we had a very lively
domestic demand component in our economy,” he said. “Domestic
investment was affected, but it still held up. Domestic consumer
spending was affected, but it still held up.”  Egypt may attract almost $9 billion in foreign direct
investment this year, Boutros-Ghali said, up from $6.7 billion
in the previous 12 months.  Foreign investment, along with revenue from tourism and the
Suez Canal, helped the economy expand at an average rate of 7
percent in the three fiscal years through June 2008.  Egypt’s benchmark  EGX30  stock index has gained 7 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  