-- Egypt's Moustafa Escapes Death Sentence, Gets 15-Years in Murder Retrial
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2010-09-28T14:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/egypt-s-hisham-talaat-moustafa-gets-15-year-sentence-in-murder-retrial.html
An Egyptian court jailed real-
estate billionaire  Hisham Talaat Moustafa  for 15 years in a
retrial for the murder of a Lebanese singer, the state-run
Middle East News Agency reported today, citing the court.  Former police officer Mohsen al-Sukary received a 25-year
sentence for killing singer Suzanne Tamim on Moustafa’s orders,
the Cairo-based agency said. Both men had been found guilty and
sentenced to death before an Egyptian court ordered a retrial in
March.  Moustafa, a former lawmaker representing the ruling party
of President  Hosni Mubarak  and chairman and chief executive
officer of Talaat Moustafa Group, was previously found guilty in
May 2009 of paying a hit man to kill Tamim, his former
girlfriend.  “There’s a big discrepancy between 15 years and 25 years
because incitation is meant to have the same sentence,” said
 Hisham Kassem , a democracy activist and former newspaper
publisher, in a telephone interview. “We’ll have to wait to see
the justifications for that.”  The murder and trial have captivated the media in the Arab
world, where politicians and the wealthy are generally perceived
to be above punishment. The Egyptian government says the
judiciary is independent and its rulings not politically
motivated.  No Impact  Shares of  Talaat Moustafa , the biggest publicly traded
real-estate company in Egypt, rose 1.1 percent to 7.13 Egyptian
pounds as of the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo, valuing the company
at 14.5 billion pounds ($2.54 billion).  “The ruling does not have an impact on the company’s
fundamentals or operational performance because it has well-
established management,” Rehab Taha, equity analyst at Cairo-
based Prime Securities SAE, said by telephone.  At the time of his arrest in September 2008, Moustafa was a
member of the upper house of parliament. Egyptian police said he
had an affair with Tamim and then paid al-Sukary $2 million to
kill her in Dubai after she left him. Both men had pleaded not
guilty.  The Egyptian prosecutor said in September 2009 that
Moustafa, who is married with three children, helped al-Sukary
obtain visas to the U.K. and the United Arab Emirates so that he
could stalk Tamim.  Stripped of Immunity  Al-Sukary entered Tamim’s Dubai apartment on July 28, 2008,
on the pretext of doing work there and stabbed her repeatedly
before cutting her throat, the prosecutor said.  Moustafa, who was born in 1959, was arrested and stripped
of his parliamentary immunity a month after the killing.  Egypt said on Sept. 26 that Talaat Moustafa Group Holding
will be allowed to keep land for its Madinaty housing project,
bypassing a court ruling that annulled the company’s purchase of
the property from the state.  The government will revoke its existing sales contract with
Talaat Moustafa, Cabinet spokesman  Magdy Rady  said. It will then
reallocate the land to the same company under a new contract,
invoking a law that allows the authorities to assign land by
direct order to protect public interest, he said.  Madinaty is Talaat Moustafa’s biggest development, designed
to accommodate 600,000 people in 120,000 housing units. The
government sold the land in 2005 in exchange for 7 percent of
the project’s built-up area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mahmoud Kassem  at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  