-- Brazil Weighs Higher Capital-Inflow Tax to Stem Real Rally, Meirelles Says
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2010-09-28T18:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/meirelles-says-brazil-considering-higher-inflow-taxes-to-stem-real-s-rally.html
Brazil’s government is considering
increased taxes on capital inflows in a bid to stem the real’s
rally as other countries adopt policies to weaken their
currencies, central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said.  “We should have a balanced global economy,” Meirelles
told reporters today in London. “We can’t have some countries
having their currencies weakened. Evidently, we’re going to have
a few countries paying the price for that.”  Yields in interest-rate futures contracts due in January
2021 jumped 0.185 percentage point, the most in a month, to
11.73 percent on speculation a tax may discourage foreign
investments in local assets. The January 2021 rate was at 11.67
percent at 1:57 p.m. New York time. The real gained 0.2 percent
to 1.7070 per U.S. dollar from 1.7106 yesterday.  President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s administration is
trying to stem a four-month rally by the real that has extended
its advance to 35 percent since the end of 2008, the second-best
performance among emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after the South African rand.  “The government is looking at exchange rates,” said
 Felipe Brandao , director of emerging markets at ICAP Brasil SA,
the fourth-largest currency broker in Brazil’s futures exchange.
“But this may affect interest rates, because foreign investors
are taking part more and more in Brazilian debt.”  Meirelles said an increase in taxes was an “open
possibility” and that the Finance Ministry is responsible for a
final decision.  ‘Serious problem’  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , speaking yesterday in Sao
Paulo, said Brazil was considering taxes on short-term, fixed-
income investments. He didn’t provide details. The yield on the
January 2021 interest-rate futures contract rose 0.135
percentage point, or 13.5 basis points, to 11.55 percent
yesterday.  Brazil’s government last October slapped a 2 percent tax on
foreign purchases of equities and fixed income securities to
fend off what Mantega considered “excess speculation”
involving the real.  “There is a very serious currency problem, which should be
addressed,” Meirelles said today. The central bank and the
Finance Ministry “agree that’s not something Brazil should pay
the price for.”  The central bank bought $5.9 billion in the first 12 days
of September, the most in 11 months, according to  Altamir Lopes ,
head of the bank’s economic department. The bank has purchased
dollars every day since July 9, swelling its foreign reserves to
a record $274 billion.  The bank has been boosting its intervention in the foreign-
exchange market to offset an inflow of dollars from investors
participating in Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s $70 billion record
share offering last week.  Meirelles said the effect of the inflow of dollars from
Petrobras’s sale has “apparently” eased off.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Price  in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net ;
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  