-- Telstra Says It Can `Comfortably'' Fund Planned Dividend as Growth Revives
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-09-28T23:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/telstra-says-it-can-comfortably-fund-planned-dividend-as-growth-revives.html
Telstra Corp. , Australia’s largest
telephone company, said it can “comfortably” pay shareholders
an annual dividend of 28 cents a share in the year ending June
30 as it seeks to revive profit growth.  The company will spend A$1 billion ($967 million) to
increase its market share during the financial year by meeting
demand for its mobile and digital television services and
simplifying its systems, Melbourne-based Telstra said in a
statement today.  Telstra has seen growing sales momentum in July and August
as consumers responded to new offers, products and improvements
in customer service, the company said.  “Our long-term growth strategy takes advantage of changes
in technology, a growing sales and marketing-led culture and
simpler company systems that lower our costs,” Chief Executive
Officer  David Thodey  said in the statement.  Thodey has begun cutting prices for mobile phone and
internet services to stem a loss of customers to smaller rivals
including  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. ’s Optus unit. Last
month Telstra posted its first annual  profit decline  in four
years and said earnings this fiscal year will  fall  by a “high
single digit” percentage as it boosts spending.  The plan by Thodey, who became CEO last year, is Telstra’s
first major restructure since predecessor  Sol Trujillo ’s so-
called “transformation” plan started in 2006.  Trujillo’s five-year plan involved increasing profitability
by slashing as many as 12,000 workers and spending more than
A$10 billion to upgrade networks.  The company may cut jobs as part of its simplification
process, Chief Financial Officer  John Stanhope  said during a
speech in Sydney on Sept. 22.  Broadband Network  Telstra reiterated it aims to seek shareholder approval on
its agreement with the federal government’s National Broadband
Network, a A$43 billion high-speed fiber project, by late June
in a separate presentation to investors.  In June, the company reached a non-binding agreement to
shut down its rival copper wire network and transfer customers
to the NBN in exchange for an A$11 billion compensation package.  Telstra will proceed with its simplification process
regardless of the NBN, Thodey said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy in Singapore at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  