-- Emanuel May Decide White House Departure, Mayoral Run This Week
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/emanuel-may-decide-white-house-departure-mayoral-run-this-week.html
Rahm Emanuel , President  Barack Obama’s  chief of staff, may announce a decision as soon as Oct.
1 on whether he will leave the White House to run for mayor of
Chicago, a person close to Emanuel said.  If he enters the race, Emanuel would be seeking to replace
Chicago Mayor  Richard M. Daley , who said Sept. 7 that he
wouldn’t seek re-election to a seventh term.  ABC News reported the timing of Emanuel’s possible
announcement yesterday.  The chief of staff is still considering the impact of a
candidacy on his family and hasn’t made a final decision, said
the person, who asked not to be named.  Emanuel, 50, was the first major appointment Obama
announced after winning the presidency. He would be the fourth
top-level adviser to leave the White House since July. Others
who have left or have announced their departures are National
Economic Council Director  Lawrence Summers ,  Peter Orszag , who
served as budget director, and  Christina Romer , head of the
president’s Council of Economic Advisers.  Speculation about Emanuel’s plans increased after he said
in an April 19 interview on PBS television’s “ Charlie Rose Show ” that running for mayor has long been an aspiration of
his, though he wouldn’t run against Daley.  Nov. 22 is the last day to file nomination papers for the
Feb. 22 Chicago mayoral election. That contest is almost certain
to be followed by an April 5 runoff for the top two vote-
getters, which is needed if no candidate gets more than 50
percent of the vote.  List of Candidates  A growing list of candidates is exploring bids for the
office following Daley’s announcement that he wouldn’t run for
mayor of America’s third-largest city.  Other potential candidates include  Cook County Sheriff Tom Dart ; State Senator  James Meeks , minister of one of Chicago’s
largest congregations; Democratic Representative  Luis Gutierrez ;
and former U.S. Senator  Carol Moseley Braun .  The Chicago mayor’s office has been held by the current
Daley or his father,  Richard J. Daley , for 43 of the past 55
years.  Emanuel is a Chicago native and owns a  house  in the
Lakeview neighborhood, where he lived while he was a member of
Congress representing a district that includes parts of the city
and adjacent suburbs. When he and his wife, Amy Rule, moved
their family to Washington, they rented out the 2,719-square-
foot home, the Chicago Tribune  reported .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Albuquerque, New Mexico, at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  