-- Emanuels May Be Homeless in Chicago as Tenant Won't Budge
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-09-28T15:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/emanuel-homeless-in-chicago-as-tenant-won-t-budge-for-possible-mayoral-bid.html
Rahm Emanuel , President  Barack Obama’s  chief of staff, may not be able to live in his own home
if he returns to Chicago to run for mayor.  Emanuel is a Chicago native and owns a  house  in the
Lakeview neighborhood, where he lived while he was congressman
for a district that includes parts of the city’s north side and
adjacent suburbs.  When he and his wife, Amy Rule, moved their family to
Washington, they rented out the 2,719-square-foot home. The
Chicago Sun-Times  reported  today that Emanuel is having a hard
time persuading his tenant to move out before the lease expires
in June.  The situation presents a possible political headache
because opponents could challenge Emanuel’s residency. As
Chicago friends learned about the situation, he received several
offers of places to stay in the city, said a person close to him
who asked not to be named.  Another person close to him said yesterday that Emanuel may
announce a decision as soon as Oct. 1 on whether he will leave
the White House.  Richard M. Daley  said Sept. 7 that he wouldn’t
seek election to a seventh term as mayor of the third-largest
U.S. city.  ABC News reported the timing of Emanuel’s possible
announcement yesterday.  The chief of staff is still considering the impact of a
candidacy on his wife and three children, and hasn’t made a
final decision, said the person, who asked not to be named.  Cluster of Departures  Emanuel, 50, was the first major appointment Obama
announced after winning the presidency. He would be the fourth
top-level adviser to leave the administration since July. Others
who have left or announced plans to leave are National Economic
Council Director  Lawrence Summers ,  Peter Orszag , who served as
budget director, and  Christina Romer , head of the president’s
Council of Economic Advisers.  Speculation about Emanuel’s plans increased after he said
in an April 19 interview on PBS television’s “ Charlie Rose Show ” that running for mayor has long been an aspiration,
though he wouldn’t run against Daley.  Nov. 22 is the last day to file nomination papers for the
Feb. 22 Chicago mayoral election. An April 5 runoff for the top
two vote-getters will follow if no candidate receives more than
50 percent.  A growing list of candidates is exploring bids for the
office following Daley’s announcement. Possible candidates
include  Cook County Sheriff Tom Dart ; State Senator  James Meeks ,
minister of one of Chicago’s largest churches; Democratic
Representative  Luis Gutierrez ; and former U.S. Senator  Carol Moseley Braun .  The Chicago mayor’s office has been held by Daley or his
father,  Richard J. Daley , for almost 43 of the past 55 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Albuquerque, New Mexico, at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  