-- Emerging-Market Stocks Fluctuate on Europe Debt Concern; Chalco Advances
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-09-28T12:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/emerging-market-stocks-fluctuate-on-europe-debt-concern-chalco-advances.html
Emerging-market stocks fell the
most in eight trading sessions as concern deepened that Europe’s
debt crisis and China’s curbs on property speculation will slow
global economic growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  dropped 0.3 percent to
1,058.25 as of 8:17 a.m. in New York, slipping from the highest
level since July 2008. MSCI Inc.’s gauge of east European  shares 
sank 0.5 percent and its measure of Chinese stocks lost 0.9
percent. Russia’s  Micex Index  slid 0.3 percent and the ruble
weakened 0.2 percent against the dollar as oil prices fell and
President  Dmitry Medvedev  fired Moscow’s longest-serving mayor.  Irish bonds sank, sending yields on the nation’s two-year
notes to the highest since Bloomberg began compiling the data in
2003, as Standard & Poor’s said the bailout for Anglo Irish Bank
Corp. may exceed its earlier forecast of 35 billion euros ($47
billion). Chinese lenders and developers slid after China
Business News said the government will announce a new round of
property tightening measures.  “Investors are becoming skeptical,” said  Arun Kejriwal ,
the Mumbai-based director of Kejriwal Research & Investment
Services Pvt. “The weakness in overseas markets is not
helping.”  Poland’s  WIG20 Index  of shares slumped 0.5 percent and the
zloty weakened 0.6 percent against the euro. Hungary’s forint
slipped 0.2 percent versus the common currency.  Luzhkov Ouster  The cost of insuring Irish sovereign debt against default
touched a record today and has more than doubled in the past two
months even as the European Union and International Monetary
Fund put in place a $1 trillion financial backstop for the
region’s most indebted countries.  Yields on Irish two-year notes pared their increase after
three people with knowledge of the transactions said the
region’s central banks bought the debt and European Central Bank
Executive Board Member  Juergen Stark  hailed an increase in
credit to Europe’s households and companies.  The MSCI emerging index also recouped some of its early
losses that had sent the gauge down as much as 0.6 percent.  Russian shares fell for a second day and the ruble snapped
a five-day rally. Medvedev fired  Yury Luzhkov  after 18 years in
power, saying he had “lost confidence” in the longest-serving
leader of Russia’s biggest and richest city. Luzhkov’s ousting
“may cause capital outflows in the very short term, which would
be ruble-negative,” said  Alexander Morozov , chief economist at
HSBC Holdings Plc in Moscow.  Crude-oil futures expiring in November lost 0.7 percent to
$76.02 a barrel in New York trading. Oil is Russia’s biggest
export earner.  China Tightening  Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co.  retreated 2.7 percent
in Shanghai while  China Citic Bank Corp.  slid 2 percent. China
will announce a round of property tightening measures “soon,”
targeting second and third-home loans, the China Business News
reported today, citing an unidentified person.  Relevant Chinese government departments may jointly sign
off on trials for a property tax, the Shanghai Securities News
also reported, without citing anyone. The trials may be
announced soon, it said.  “Banking stocks don’t present a big investment opportunity
because the market is still concerned the government will have
tight control over credit growth going forward, including
possible interest-rate increases,” said  Zhao Zifeng , who helps
oversee about $10.2 billion at China International Fund
Management Co. in Shanghai.  Dubai’s sale of five-year dollar notes, the first issue
since the Dubai World credit crisis, may be priced to yield
about 6.875 percent, according to four people with knowledge of
the sale. The Persian Gulf financial hub’s 10-year bonds may be
priced to yield about 8 percent, the people said, declining to
be identified because the information hasn’t been made public.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
dollar debt over U.S. Treasuries declined four basis points to
2.82 percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI+ Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 