-- Endo Pharmaceuticals Agrees to Acquire Qualitest for $1.2 Billion in Cash
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-09-28T20:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/endo-pharmaceuticals-to-purchase-closely-held-qualitest-for-1-2-billion.html
Endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings Inc. 
agreed to buy U.S. generic-drugmaker Qualitest Pharmaceuticals
for about $1.2 billion from private-equity firm  Apax Partners
LLP . Endo’s shares rose to their highest value in three years.  The cash acquisition will add about $400 million in annual
 sales  and 40 cents to earnings per share excluding some items
after closing, Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania-based Endo said today
in a  statement. Endo repeated its 2010 financial forecast.  The combined company will have revenue of about $2 billion
and more than 3,000 employees. Endo and Qualitest have 46
generic-drug applications under review by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, including treatments for pain, cancer and high
blood pressure, Endo said.  ”Any time you can add as much in earnings per share as
they’re doing without paying too much, it’s a smart
acquisition,” said  James Molloy , a Boston-based analyst for
Caris & Co., in a telephone interview.  Endo climbed $2.49, or 8.1 percent, to $33.10 at 4:00 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, its
highest closing price since August 2007.  “If we can’t supply a diverse portfolio at various value
points, we’re not going to be long-term players” said Chief
Executive Officer  David Holveck  in an interview today.
“Building and diversifying has been the plan from day 1.”  Endo said it plans to retain closely held Qualitest’s
facilities, which are located in Huntsville, Alabama, and
Charlotte, North Carolina.  Lazard Ltd. served as financial adviser to Endo, while
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP provided legal advice,
according to the statement. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and RBC Capital
Markets are providing financing commitments. Qualitest’s bankers
were from J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, while Kirkland & Ellis LLP
acted as legal counsel.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Kristen Hallam  at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at  Q
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 