-- Energizer Bids $301 Mln for Bankrupt American Safety
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-09-28T21:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/energizer-holdings-bid-301-million-for-bankrupt-american-safety-razor.html
Energizer Holdings Inc. , maker of
Schick shavers, offered $301 million in cash to buy bankrupt
competitor  American Safety Razor Co. , a financial adviser said
today in court.  The offer was disclosed during testimony in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Wilmington, Delaware, where American Safety is seeking
permission to reject Energizer’s bid in favor of a lower, debt-
for-equity offer from lenders. American Safety financial adviser
 Andrew Torgove , managing director of Lazard Middle Market LLC,
said the Energizer bid raises too many antitrust issues.  Energizer refused to make a “hell-or-high-water”
guarantee that it would buy the company even in the face of
opposition from government antitrust regulators, Torgove told
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Mary F. Walrath .  American Safety, based in Cedar Knolls, New Jersey, filed
for bankruptcy in July, blaming increased competition for
inexpensive shavers and the loss of its biggest customer. The
company said at the time it had accepted an offer from its lead
lenders to cancel the $244 million they are owed in return for
American Safety’s assets.  The hearing will continue tomorrow, Walrath said.  Energizer said in court papers filed late yesterday that it
was still interested in buying American Safety. Until then,
American Safety and Energizer, which owns the Energizer battery
brands, had kept the offer secret.  In regulatory filings, Energizer said it is the second-
biggest maker of wet shavers. The largest is Procter & Gamble
Co.’s Gillette unit.  Energizer fell 88 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $70.38 in New
York Stock Exchange trading.  The case is In re American Safety Razor Co., 10-12351, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 