-- E. Guinea May Decide on $2.2 Billion LNG Plant in 2012
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-09-28T16:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/equatorial-guinea-may-decide-on-2-2-billion-lng-plant-in-2012.html
Equatorial Guinea may decide to
build a $2.2 billion liquefied natural gas plant in 2012,
according to  Gabriel Obiang Lima , a vice minister of mines,
industry and energy.  The unit would be the second in the African country, which
has more than 8.5 trillion cubic feet of natural-gas reserves.
The investment estimate includes spending on pipeline
infrastructure and hubs, Lima said in an interview in Cape Town.  State-owned Sociedad Nacional de Gas, or Sonagas, together
with Germany’s  E.ON AG , Portugal’s Galp Energia SGPS SA and
Spain’s Union Fenosa SA, has been designing a plan to develop
the local gas industry. The African nation needs to ensure fuel
supply to domestic industry and to stop flaring, or the burning
of gas associated with oil, most of which comes from the Exxon
Mobil Corp.-operated  Zafiro field , Lima said last year.  “Priority number one is the gas master plan,” Serapio
Sima Ntutumu, a deputy general director at Sonagas, said today
at an  Africa Energy Week  conference in Cape Town. The second
priority is a gas distribution plan and third is expansion and
diversification, he said.  Equatorial Guinea LNG Holdings Ltd.  can expand by adding a
second production unit and load its first cargo in 2016 or 2017,
according to Marathon Oil Corp. estimates made last year. Gas
supplies from Nigeria and Cameroon may be required to make the
unit commercially viable.  Alen Resources  Noble Energy Inc., the U.S. oil and natural-gas producer
with prospects from the Rocky Mountains to West Africa, plans to
pump 40,000 barrels a day from the Alen field in Equatorial
Guinea in 2014, Lima told conference delegates today. Alen holds
247 million barrels of gross oil and gas resources, according to
Houston-based Noble’s estimates.  Noble will also start oil production from Equatorial
Guinea’s Aseng field in mid-2012 and produce about 50,000
barrels a day, Lima said, adding that, over the life of the
project, the company expects to recover gross hydrocarbon
liquids of about 100 million to 120 million barrels.  Aseng also holds an estimated 450 billion to 550 billion
cubic feet of gas resources that will be produced as part of the
country’s gas plan once the pressure maintenance phase is
completed, according to Lima’s presentation.  Bids  The West African nation, which produces about 415,000
barrels a day of liquid oil equivalent, in August invited 12
companies to build its 20,000 barrel-per-day Mbini refinery, the
deputy energy minister said in his speech. The government will
consider proposals from companies including KBR Inc., Ventech
Technology Inc. and China Petroleum and Chemical Corp. by
January, he said.  Equatorial Guinea is a “significant oil exporter”
according to the  U.S. Energy Information Administration ’s
website, which says the majority of the country’s oil exports
are destined for European, North American and Asian markets.  The West African country has had $35 billion of direct
investment in its petroleum industry so far, Lima said.  In the power industry, the country expects to complete its
Malabo electricity network project on Bioko island in June 2011
at a cost of about $370 million, Lima said. It also expects to
complete the Djibolo power plant near Rio Muni at the same time,
at a cost of $250 million, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Cape Town at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net 
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  