-- Merkel's Cabinet Backs Nuclear Plans, Courting Public Protests
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2010-09-28T16:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/merkel-s-cabinet-to-pass-nuclear-plans-court-public-protests.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet
approved an extension of the lifecycle of Germany’s 17 nuclear-
power plants, rejecting public protests and opposition threats
to challenge the government’s plans in court.  Ministers meeting in Berlin today ratified an accord forged
earlier this month with the utilities  E.ON AG  and  RWE AG  to
permit atomic plants to run eight years to 14 years longer.
Merkel, whose coalition trails the opposition in polls, has said
the aim is to build a “bridge” to renewable energies, which
will benefit from plans also before Cabinet to levy 30 billion
euros ($40 billion) from utilities.  “Germans remain deeply suspicious of nuclear power and
need convincing as to why the plants should run longer,”  Hans- Juergen Hoffmann , managing director of Berlin-based polling
company Psephos, said by phone. “If you foist unpopular policy
on the electorate, you can’t be surprised if you shed votes.”  One year after her re-election, support for Merkel’s
coalition is stuck near historic lows after months of party
bickering and policy drift. The opposition Social Democrats and
Greens, which approved the nuclear phase-out by about 2022 when
in government, are stepping up their protests against atomic
power, buoyed by polls showing them with enough backing to form
a majority government if elections were held now.  ‘Dirty Business’  The SPD agreed at a Sept. 26 party convention to overturn
the proposed nuclear extension if it wins elections in 2013,
calling Merkel’s accord with utilities “dirty business.” An
anti-nuclear demonstration that drew an estimated 100,000 to
Berlin on Sept. 12 shows Merkel “has reopened one of society’s
deepest conflicts of recent decades,” said a resolution from
the SPD’s executive board.  Dusseldorf-based E.ON reversed earlier losses in Frankfurt
trading to gain 0.6 percent to 21.89 euros. Shares in smaller
rival RWE of Essen fell 0.1 percent to 50.16 euros, while the
benchmark German DAX index was little changed. RWE is  the worst
performer  this year on the 30-member DAX and E.ON is the third-
worst. Both companies have dropped 25 percent or more.  E.ON sees the government’s policy, which also sets targets
for cutting carbon-dioxide output and developing renewable
energy, “as an important step for Germany’s energy future,”
the company said in an e-mailed statement today.  EnBW Energie
Baden-Wuerttemberg AG , Germany’s third-largest utility, said in
a separate statement that it welcomed the government’s plans.  End Campaign  “Now we know what the next steps look like,”  Juergen Grossmann , chief executive officer of RWE, said in an e-mailed
statement. “It’s time to end the campaign against German
nuclear power that’s being conducted by parts of the public.”  Steffen Herrmann , a spokesman for the German unit of
Vattenfall AB, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The Cabinet approved seven separate bills from three
ministries that encompass its energy policy, from promoting
research to increasing energy efficiency in buildings. Merkel
intends to put the bills to the lower house, where she has a
majority, without seeking the approval of the upper chamber, the
Bundesrat, where her bloc is outnumbered by the opposition.  Legal opinion is divided on whether Merkel can bypass the
Bundesrat, where Germany’s 16 states are represented, and the
opposition has said it will challenge any such attempt on
constitutional grounds.  Merkel’s “energy concept” obliges the four main utilities
to pay a nuclear tax from next year through 2016 valued at 2.3
billion euros annually. The companies will also pay 15 billion
euros into a government-run fund for developing renewable energy
and energy storage from 2017 until the reactors shut down.  Offshore Wind Parks  Five billion euros will be made available to encourage
development of offshore wind parks, Environment Minister  Norbert Roettgen  told reporters in Berlin. That will help Germany meet
its target of generating 80 percent of energy from renewable
means by 2050, he said.  The decision to harness windfall profits for renewable
energy may be the “best protection” against scrapping the
extension in coming years,  Bernhard Jeggle , an analyst at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart, said in an
interview. “Government windfall revenue is a powerful
enticement to sticking with the extension,” he said.  Hamper Competition  It remains unclear how the government will ensure that the
nuclear extension doesn’t hamper competition in the German
energy market, said the BDEW, which lobbies for the country’s
four reactor owners as well as smaller competitors. Municipal
utilities and mid-sized energy companies should have “preferred
access” to the fund into which nuclear plant operators will
contribute some of their profits, the BDEW said in a statement.  Greenpeace said it is stepping up its campaign against the
nuclear plans with nationwide protests, while BUND, an
environmental group, dismissed the government’s renewable plans
as relying on “yesterday’s recipe.” The German  BEE Renewable
Energy Federation  said the energy policy is “a journey to the
past” that will hinder the development of alternative energy.  “I admit our goals are ambitious,” Merkel said in a
speech to the BDI industry federation in Berlin. “We believe
that we can reach the age of renewable energy, generating new
opportunities, new technologies and  new jobs for Germany .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Comfort  in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 