-- 
Hertz Tops Avis With $2.24 Billion Offer to Buy Dollar Thrifty Automotive

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-09T15:16:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/hertz-avis-fight-for-dollar-thrifty-propels-offer-to-triple-similar-bids.html
(Corrects Dollar Thrifty share history in 10th paragraph of
story published Sept. 28, 2010.)  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  and  Avis
Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  are offering about three times the average
premium for an auto- or equipment-rental business in their
pursuit of  Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. (DTG)   Hertz’s initial cash-and-stock offer for Dollar Thrifty was
valued at $41 a share on April 26, 17 percent more than the
target’s average closing price the previous 20 days. That equals
the average premium in car- or equipment-rental acquisitions
since 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Avis and
Hertz have raised their bids, with Avis’s most recent $53.09-a-
share cash-and-stock offer representing a 51 percent premium.  Hertz and Avis are dueling for the last available publicly
traded auto-rental company, putting competitive pressure on the
company that loses, said  John Healy , an analyst with Cleveland-
based Northcoast Research Holdings.  “There aren’t enough small regional brands you could
cobble up together to replicate Dollar Thrifty, so there’s an
increased desire to pursue the asset,” Healy said.  Dollar Thrifty said yesterday it supports Hertz’s $1.46
billion bid over Avis’s $1.52 billion offer because it can be
completed more rapidly and better protects shareholders.  The winner of the bidding war would become the second-
largest U.S. auto-rental chain by revenue, trailing only closely
held Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co. Demand for rental cars will
increase in the next two years, making Dollar Thrifty more
valuable, Healy said.  ‘Best and Final’  Hertz said Sept. 24 that its offer, valued at $50.78 a
share at yesterday’s closing prices, is its “best and final”
bid. The offer reflects “full value” for Dollar Thrifty,
Richard Broome, a spokesman for  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based
Hertz, said in an e-mail. Hertz Chief Executive Officer Mark Frissora said in a statement that the offer’s premium, now 44
percent, is “substantial.”  The proposal includes a $44.6 million breakup fee Hertz
would pay Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty in case the
acquisition doesn’t win regulatory approval. Avis’s offer
doesn’t include such a fee, which Dollar Thrifty had requested.
Dollar Thrifty shareholders are set to vote on Hertz’s proposal
Sept. 30.  Avis yesterday asked Dollar Thrifty to delay that vote
until Dec. 30 so the bids can clear regulatory approval. If
Dollar Thrifty doesn’t postpone the vote and shareholders reject
Hertz’s bid, Avis said it would start an exchange offer.  Dollar Thrifty has gained 31 percent since the day before
Hertz announced its first offer in April. The shares fell from
$53 on March 22, 2007, to $0.62 on March 3, 2009, and closed at
$50.79 yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange.  ‘Vested Interest’  The fight between Hertz and Avis shows that a takeover
target’s value can be boosted by an acquirer’s desire to prevent
a rival from buying it, said Mike Shore, assistant professor of
economics at  Vanderbilt University ’s Owen Graduate School of
Management in Nashville,  Tennessee .  “The irony is Dollar Thrifty is going to get much more
than it’s potentially worth because the bidders have a vested
interest in not letting the other one have it,” Shore said.  Six acquisitions of publicly traded auto- or equipment-
rental companies have been completed since 2005, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. They include Platinum Equity LLC’s
2008 takeover of Maxim Crane Works Holdings and Rent-A-Center
Inc.’s 2006 purchase of Rent-Way Inc. All were completed before
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. None of the six
was worth more than $500 million.  Avis’s 2002 acquisition of Budget and Hertz’s 2009 takeover
for Advantage Rent-a-Car both came as a result of the target’s
bankruptcy proceedings.  ‘Fair Price’  “History tells these companies nothing, as far as what’s a
fair price,” said Chris Agnew, analyst at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based MKM Partners. “This is the last round of
consolidation in the industry. That can have a huge bearing on
what you’re willing to pay.”  Hertz’s debt is rated B at  Standard & Poor’s , five levels
below investment grade. Parsippany, New Jersey-based Avis is
rated B+ at S&P, four levels below investment grade.  Hertz had $896.9 million in cash and $11.7 billion of long-
term borrowings as of June 30. Avis had $458 million in cash and
$8.1 billion in debt as of the same period.  Neither company’s rating would be affected if they complete
a deal, unless Avis finances its takeover with secured debt,
Lisa Jenkins and Betsy Snyder, analysts for S&P in New York,
said in a note this month. S&P would likely lower its rating on
Avis in that case because of “less favorable recovery prospects
in a default scenario,” Jenkins and Snyder said.  Hertz rose 12 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $11.28 yesterday in
 New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Avis gained 1 cent to
$11.15. Hertz has dropped 5.4 percent this year, and Avis had
declined 15 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has risen
2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 