-- EU to Propose Fines for Uncompetitive Euro-Region Economies, Official Says
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2010-09-28T10:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/eu-to-propose-fines-for-uncompetitive-euro-region-economies-official-says.html
Euro countries would face fines for
letting wages or house prices get out of hand under European
Commission proposals to lessen the economic imbalances that
played havoc with the 16-nation euro region this year.  Countries that ignore recommendations to strengthen their
competitiveness could be fined as much as 0.1 percent of gross
domestic product, a senior commission official told reporters in
Brussels today.  The penalties, which Ireland or Spain might have faced on
the eve of the financial crisis, will be part of a “credible
sanctions regime” to be proposed tomorrow, the official said on
condition of anonymity.  With Ireland’s deteriorating public finances looming as the
euro’s next test, the proposals are designed to plug holes in an
economic management system that in May forced European
governments to offer 860 billion euros ($1.2 trillion) in loans
and pledges to blunt speculation that the currency union might
break up.  The product of four months of debate, the commission’s
proposals tilt toward German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in her bid
to impose a tighter fiscal corset on wayward euro governments
and have already sparked opposition from France.  Penalties for imbalances such as outsized current-account
deficits would be imposed “asymmetrically” on weaker
economies, such as Portugal or Greece, the official said.
Germany, with its trade surpluses, wouldn’t be penalized for
being too competitive.  EU Scoreboard  The official didn’t spell out how imbalances would be
judged. While house prices will be one component of a planned
competitiveness scoreboard, Europe-wide property-price
statistics are not yet reliable enough to be used for “legally
binding purposes,” the official said.  Tomorrow’s package includes plans to force governments
heading over the euro deficit limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product to set aside an interest-bearing deposit as
high as 0.2 percent of GDP.  Excessive deficits that fail to come back under the limit
would be penalized with a non-interest bearing deposit, which
would be confiscated from repeat violators. The system builds on
existing punishments that haven’t been imposed in the euro’s
almost 12-year history.  Countries with debt above the 60 percent limit would be
ordered to hit an annual reduction target equal to 1/20th of the
excess. A country with debt at 100 percent, for example, would
need to cut it by 2 percentage points each year.  French Opposition  In the face of French-led opposition, the commission will
propose that sanctions kick in automatically unless blocked by a
“qualified majority” in which bigger countries have more
votes.  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  last night urged
a simpler one-country, one-vote system that would lessen the
influence of Germany, the country pushing hardest for tougher
rules.  The six-law package will require approval by European
governments and the  European Parliament.  The commission hopes it
will take effect by mid-2011, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  