-- European Stocks Decline on Irish Debt Concern; Michelin Drops
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-09-28T14:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/european-stock-index-futures-retreat-michelin-nokia-shares-may-be-active.html
European  stocks fell as Irish and
Portuguese bonds plunged, fueling concern that the sovereign-
debt crisis is worsening, while a report showed U.S. consumer
confidence declined to the lowest level in seven months.  Michelin & Cie., the world’s second-largest tiremaker,
tumbled 10 percent after saying it plans to raise 1.2 billion
euros ($1.6 billion) in a rights offering. Akzo Nobel NV lost
3.4 percent after setting a target of 20 billion euros in
revenue in the next five years. Stada Arzneimittel AG slumped 11
percent after saying it will take a charge in the third quarter,
leaving its targets for the year “just achievable.”  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  lost 0.4 percent to
261.91 as of 3:44 p.m. in London. The gauge has gained 4 percent
this month, bringing its rally since June to 7.6 percent, as
investors speculated that stimulus measures will cement the
recovery even as European nations slash spending to reign in
their budget deficits. The cost of insuring against default on
Ireland’s government debt surged to a record today as Standard &
Poor’s said the price of bailing out nationalized lender Anglo
Irish Bank Corp. could exceed $47 billion.  “We’re seeing some renewed fears regarding peripheral
European countries again, which is spreading into banks,” said
 Espen Furnes , a fund manager at Storebrand ASA in Oslo, which
oversees about $54 billion. “Investors are a bit more jumpy
than usual, especially after the good returns we’ve seen so far
in September.”  Stimulus Measures  Stocks rallied earlier today as three people with knowledge
of the transactions said European central banks bought Irish
government debt after yields on the nation’s two-year notes
surged to the most since at least 2003. The purchases focused on
securities with maturities of as long as five years, said one of
the people, who declined to be identified because the deals are
private.  In the U.S., an S&P/Case-Shiller report showed home prices
in 20 cities rose at a slower pace in July from a year earlier,
reflecting a drop in sales following the end of a government tax
credit.  The Conference Board’s confidence index declined to 48.5,
from 53.2 the prior month, figures from the New York-based
private research group showed today. The median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a decline to 52.1.  John Lipsky , the No. 2 official at the International
Monetary Fund, said global economic growth in the second half of
this year will fall short of the fund’s forecast.  “Growth has slowed in this year’s second half,” he said
in the text of a speech posted on the IMF’s website today, and
added that “this sluggishness will persist into early 2011.”
The Washington-based fund had forecast growth at a 3.75 percent
annual rate for the second half.  U.S. Economy  National benchmark indexes declined in 14 out of the 18
western European markets. France’s  CAC 40  and Germany’s DAX
Index lost 0.6 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slipped
0.5 percent.
      Michelin  plunged 10 percent to 58.68 euros, the biggest
daily drop in 12 years. The French tiremaker will offer the new
shares at 45 euros apiece and shareholders will be able to buy 2
new shares for every 11 held, it said in a statement today. The
sale will help Michelin fund capital spending of 1.6 billion
euros in 2011 and beyond, compared with about 1 billion euros
this year.  Sales Target        Akzo Nobel , the world’s biggest coatings maker, declined
3.4 percent to 45.27 euros as it said it is aiming for sales to
grow to 20 billion euros in the “mid-term.” Akzo Nobel wants
to increase earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization each year, while maintaining a 13 to 15 percent
margin, the Amsterdam-based company said today.  Stada, Germany’s largest publicly traded maker of generic
drugs, tumbled 11 percent to 21.25 euros, the biggest fall since
March last year. The company said it will take a charge in the
third quarter of about 29.5 million euros, “due to liquidity
problems on the part of Serbian wholesalers.”  JJB Sports Plc  slumped 14 percent to 9.5 pence after the
U.K. sports retailer said it incurred a first-half operating
loss of 24.6 million pounds ($38.9 million).  “Since the half-year end, sales have been more volatile,”
Chief Executive Officer  Keith Jones  said in today’s statement.
“We have consequently taken further steps to drive autumn and
peak season sales through increased promotional activity.” [bn:WBTKR=TCG:LN]   Thomas Cook Group Plc [] retreated 7.5 percent to 169.6 pence
as Europe’s second-biggest tour operator said higher costs for
leasing aircraft will place an additional burden on profit in
its U.K. business amid the toughest year on record.  UPM-Kymmene Oyj rallied 3.5 percent to 12.32 euros as
Europe’s second-biggest paper maker said it’s in talks that may
lead to the acquisition of competitor Myllykoski Oyj.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 