-- Europe Commodity Day Ahead: Volatility May Increase, SocGen's Godin Says
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2010-09-28T05:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/europe-commodity-day-ahead-volatility-may-increase-socgen-s-godin-says.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  ECONOMIC EVENTS, AGRICULTURE REPORTS:  
TOP STORY:  Commodity Volatility Set to Gain, Societe Generale’s Godin Says  Commodity prices, which have surged to the highest level
since January, may see greater volatility as investors react to
threats to the global economic recovery, according to Societe
Generale SA.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Gourmet Coffee May Cheapen, Helping Starbucks: Chart of Day  Mild-tasting coffee used by Starbucks Corp. and Green
Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. is poised to cheapen versus its
bitter-tasting competitor as production of so-called arabica
beans increases to a record.  Noble Group’s Leiman Seeks to Grow Oilseeds Business  Noble Group Ltd., the commodity supplier backed by China
Investment Corp., is seeking to expand its grain and oilseeds
business to take advantage of rising global food demand, Chief
Executive Officer Ricardo Leiman said.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper May Decline for a Second Day on Strengthening Dollar  Copper, little changed, may decline for a second day as the
dollar strengthened against the euro on mounting concern that
Europe’s debt crisis is escalating. Zinc and aluminum declined.  Rio Doesn’t See Any Demand Slowdown on China’s Power Cut  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-biggest exporter of
iron ore, hasn’t seen any demand slowdown after China cut power
supplies to steelmakers.  Chinese Ports Have 72.4 Million Tons of Iron Ore Inventories  Chinese ports are holding 72.4 million metric tons of iron
ore inventories, Fu Jinxiu, deputy chief of transportation and
safety at the Ministry of Transport, said today at a conference
in Dalian.  Steelmakers in China’s Hebei Resume Production, Securities Says  Some steelmakers in Wu’an city of the Chinese province of
Hebei partially resumed production after 20 days of stoppage on
power restrictions, the China Securities Journal said, citing
unidentified company officials.  China Iron Ore Imports Won’t Exceed 2009 Levels, CISA Says  Iron ore imports by China, the biggest buyer, won’t exceed
last year’s levels, the China Iron & Steel Association said.  Chalco Shares Surge on Plan to Invest in Rare Earths  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest producer
of the metal, rose by the most in a year in Shanghai trading
after its parent announced a plan to invest at least 10 billion
yuan ($1.5 billion) in rare earths.  MINING:  Anglogold CEO to Complete Hedge Book Restructure Next Few Mths  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Mark
Cutifani expects to complete the hedge book restructure in the
next few months. He made the comments today on a conference call.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold May Drop on Dollar Gain; Silver Declines From 30-Year High  Gold, trading little changed near a record, may drop as an
advance in the dollar reduces demand for the precious metal as
an alternative asset. Silver declined from a 30-year high.  Swiss & Global ETF Assets in Gold, Silver, Palladium Advance  Swiss & Global Asset Management Ltd.’s exchange-traded
products in gold, silver, platinum and palladium advanced since
Sept. 23.  Gold ETP Assets May Gain Up to 20%, ABN Amro’s Schubert Says  Gold holdings in exchange-traded products may climb between
10 percent and 20 percent for each of the next two years, said
Gerry Schubert, head of precious metals at ABN Amro Markets
(U.K.) Ltd.  Bank of China Sets Up Shanghai Precious Metals Business Center  Bank of China has established a precious metals business
center in Shanghai which will handle spot gold trading, gold
deposit, gold leasing, forward trading, swaps and options, it
said in a statement on its website today.  AGRICULTURE:  Cotton Extends Advance to 15-Year High on China, U.S. Concerns  Cotton extended a rally to the highest price in more than
15 years after China’s top planning agency said output may drop
in the world’s largest user, while the U.S. government said
local crop conditions deteriorated.  Corn May Extend Drop From Two-Year High on U.S. Harvest Advance  Corn, little changed, may drop for a second day after
climbing to a two-year high yesterday as the harvest advances in
the U.S., the world’s largest exporter.  Soybean Premiums Rise as U.S. Exports Jump; Corn Basis Steady  Cash premiums for soybeans shipped to export terminals near
New Orleans increased relative to Chicago futures as U.S. export
shipments jumped last week to the highest level in six months.
Corn premiums were steady.  Palm Oil Drops From 16-Month High on Concern Over Stockpiles  Palm oil dropped, slipping from yesterday’s 16-month high,
on concern that a seasonal boost in output may expand stockpiles
for a second month in September.  Rubber Drops as European Debt Concerns Trigger Commodity Sales  Rubber dropped from a five-month high as concern grew that
European government finances may be worsening, leading to sales
of industrial commodities.  India Said to Consider Extending Duty-Free Vegetable Oil Imports  India, the world’s second-biggest cooking oil consumer, may
extend duty-free imports of crude palm and soybean oils by a
further 12 months as it seeks to control domestic prices, two
government officials said.  Singapore Mercantile Exchange Plans to Trade Black Pepper  The Singapore Mercantile Exchange plans to start trading
international black pepper futures contracts with settlement
based on physical delivery, the bourse said.  Sugar Mills in India’s Top Grower to Delay Crushing, Line Says  Sugar producers in Uttar Pradesh, India’s biggest cane-
grower, may delay crushing as excess rain inundated fields, the
Hindu Business Line newspaper reported, citing millers.  Vietnam Increases Estimate for Rubber Shipments in August by 4%  Vietnam, the world’s third-biggest rubber exporter,
increased by 4 percent its estimate of shipments last month.  SHIPPING:  India Aims to Raise Share in Global Shipbuilding to 5% by 2017  India aims to raise its share in global shipbuilding to 5
percent by 2017 from the current 1.25 percent, K. Mohandas, the
nation’s shipping secretary, said in Singapore today.  Shipping Corp. of India Plans to Double Capacity in Five Years  Shipping Corp. of India Ltd. plans to double its current
capacity in the next five years, Chairman and Managing Director
S. Hajara told reporters in Singapore today.  ECONOMIES:  Ken Fisher Dubs New Normal Concept as ‘Idiotic’  The next decade will be as good for investors as the 1990s,
said Ken Fisher, the billionaire chief executive officer of
Fisher Investments Inc., dismissing notions that developed
economies face below-average growth.  France Chafes at German Plea for Quasi-Automatic Euro Penalties  France sought to blunt German calls for “quasi-automatic”
sanctions on debt-laden euro-area countries as finance ministers
squared off over how to patch up the management of the 16-nation
euro economy.  Asia Must Refrain From Tightening ‘Too Quickly,’ ADB Says  The Asian Development Bank raised its 2010 economic growth
forecast for the region and said governments must refrain from
tightening fiscal and monetary policies “too quickly” to
sustain the expansion.  South Korean Consumer Confidence Declines to a 14-Month Low  South Korea’s consumer confidence fell to the lowest level
in 14 months amid concern that the nation’s economic recovery
will slow.  OTHER MARKETS:  Oil Falls First Time in Five Days on Forecast Supply Increase  Oil fell in New York, snapping four days of gains, after
analysts forecast an increase in U.S. gasoline supplies,
signaling demand recovery in the world’s largest crude user may
falter.  Asian Stocks Fall on Renewed Europe Concerns; Trend Micro Drops
??Asian stocks fell, dragging down the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
by the most in almost two weeks, on concerns European government
finances are worsening and that China will intensify measures to
rein in property prices.  Dollar Near 5-Month Low on Prospects Fed May Signal More Easing  The dollar traded near a five-month low against the euro on
speculation Federal Reserve officials will signal this week
their readiness to take more credit-easing steps.  Dividend Deals Most Since 2007 as Loans Heat Up: Credit Markets  Speculative-grade companies are borrowing to finance
dividend payments to their private-equity owners at the fastest
rate since before the credit crisis, taking advantage of
investor demand for high relative yields.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  