-- Hewlett-Packard Forecasts Profit, Revenue Topping Estimates
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-09-29T14:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/hewlett-packard-forecasts-sales-profit-that-exceed-analysts-estimates.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. , the world’s
largest computer maker, forecast earnings and sales for fiscal
2011 that exceeded analysts’ estimates and said it’s considering
good internal and external chief executive officer candidates.  The company expects earnings excluding costs of $5.05 to
$5.15 a share on sales of $131.5 billion to $133.5 billion,
interim Chief Executive Officer  Cathie Lesjak  said yesterday.
Analysts had predicted sales of earnings of $5.01 and revenue of
$131.7 billion, according to a  Bloomberg survey .  Lesjak, who’s making  acquisitions  and hiring sales staff,
said she expects the company to “grow profitably” as its board
searches for a successor to  Mark Hurd . HP plans to return some
 cash  to shareholders through dividends and stock repurchases,
she said. That would help buoy a stock that has slumped 10
percent since Aug. 6, when Hurd departed after allegations of
sexual harassment.  “The stock is so cheap right now that a higher dividend
would create a better yield for investors, and potentially a
reason to buy the stock,” said  Brian Marshall , a Gleacher & Co.
analyst in San Francisco, who  recommends  buying HP shares.  HP currently pays an 8-cent quarterly  dividend , for a 12-
month yield of 0.8 percent. The company plans to hire “several
thousand” salespeople in the coming quarters, though it remains
focused on curtailing costs, Lesjak said.  She gave analysts no indication how soon the board would
choose a CEO and said there’s room for Hurd’s successor to “put
their stamp” on the company.  Capex, Dealmaking  Spending on capital expenditures and acquisitions will be
the “No. 1 priority” for HP’s cash, Lesjak said. Buying back
shares will be of secondary importance, she said.  HP, based in Palo Alto, California,  rose  94 cents, or 2.3
percent, to $42.56 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading
at 10:03 a.m. It had slid 19 percent this year before today.  The company also announced plans to sell a device called
the “Palmpad,” using technology from its Palm Inc.  acquisition 
earlier this year. HP has hired 200 people for the Palm business
since the takeover was completed in July, said  Todd Bradley , who
oversees the division.  HP expects to hold 17 percent of the market for tablet
computers by 2013, Bradley said. HP this month began shipping a
$399 printer that includes a built-in tablet running Google
Inc.’s Android software.  Margin Outlook  HP expects to have a fiscal 2011 operating margin,
excluding costs, of 11.6 percent to 11.8 percent, Lesjak said.
HP’s operating margin, the percentage of sales left after
production, sales and marketing costs, was 9.9 percent in the
most recent quarter. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg have
predicted an 11.6 percent operating margin in fiscal 2011.  Operating profit and per-share earnings are likely to rise
more quickly than revenue, Lesjak said. The company also plans
to boost research and development spending faster than sales in
fiscal 2011, she said.  International Business Machines Corp.  CEO  Sam Palmisano 
publicly criticized HP this month for using acquisitions, rather
than spending on research, to pursue innovation.  HP’s research and development spending has declined by 18
percent over the past five years, even as sales increased 45
percent, said Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst  Toni Sacconaghi 
in a note to clients this month.  The spending level may be appropriate, said Sacconaghi, who
has an “outperform” rating on HP shares. That’s because almost
95 percent of the company’s sales growth over that time has come
from businesses that require low R&D spending, such as personal
computers, Intel-based servers and technology services, he said.  In August, HP hired Spencer Stuart Inc. to help it find a
new CEO. While the company hadn’t ruled out picking an outside
executive, the board was leaning toward an internal candidate, a
person familiar with the matter said earlier this month.  The short list included Bradley, head of the PC division;
 Dave Donatelli , who runs the storage and server unit; and  Ann Livermore , executive vice president of the enterprise business,
said the person.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  