-- Ex-Alaska Lawmaker Weyhrauch Wins U.S. Ruling on Corruption Trial Evidence
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-09-28T00:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/ex-alaska-lawmaker-weyhrauch-wins-u-s-ruling-on-corruption-trial-evidence.html
Bruce Weyhrauch , a former Alaska
state representative indicted on corruption charges in 2007, won
a federal appeals court ruling preventing prosecutors from
offering evidence at trial that he concealed a conflict of
interest in seeking a job with an oil contractor.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco upheld a judge’s
pre-trial order in Weyhrauch’s criminal case, citing a U.S.
Supreme Court ruling in June involving  Jeffrey Skilling , Enron
Corp.’s former chief executive officer, that limited some fraud
prosecutions.  Under the Supreme Court’s ruling in the Skilling case,
“nondisclosure of a conflict of interest is no longer a basis
for prosecution,” the appeals court in San Francisco said
today.  Weyhrauch, the former Republican state lawmaker, was
indicted by a federal grand jury in May 2007 on bribery and
conspiracy charges for allegedly seeking a job with Veco Corp.,
an oilfield-services company, in return for his support of oil
tax legislation favored by the firm’s former owner, Bill Allen.  Weyhrauch’s attorney, Douglas Pope, said he was pleased
with the appeals court ruling because the government had argued
that court should allow the trial judge to decide the conflict
of interest issue. Pope said in a telephone interview that he
planned to seek dismissal of the case.  M.  Kendall Day , an attorney at the Justice Department’s
public integrity section, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail
message seeking comment.  Weyhrauch’s trial, which had been scheduled to start Sept.
13, was postponed, according to court filings.  The case is U.S. v. Weyhrauch, 07-30339, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 