-- Ex-Union Chief Stern Said to Be Investigated by FBI, Labor Office
-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 2010-09-28T19:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/ex-union-chief-andy-stern-said-to-be-investigated-by-fbi-labor-department.html
Andy Stern , former president of the
Service Employees International Union, is being investigated by
the FBI and Labor Department in a corruption probe, according to
two union officials who said they were interviewed by U.S.
agents.  The officials, who asked not to be identified discussing
the pending investigation, said they spoke with FBI and Labor
Department investigators about Stern’s $175,000 book contract in
2006 from publisher Simon & Schuster. The SEIU bought thousands
of copies and paid to help promote the book, “A Country That
Works,” the officials said.  The FBI also asked about Stern’s role approving the salary
of Alejandro Stephens, a California SEIU leader who may have
performed no work, the officials said.  “I have absolutely no reason to believe, and not the
slightest indication, that I am being investigated by federal
authorities with respect to Alejandro Stephens, or ‘A Country
That Works,’ or for that matter anything else,” Stern said
today in an e-mailed statement issued by the union.  Stern resigned in April after 14 years leading the 2.2
million-member SEIU, the fastest-growing U.S. union. Stern said
at the time that he wanted to spend more time on other projects,
including President  Barack Obama ’s deficit commission on which
Stern serves. Stern backed Obama’s election, helped win passage
of the president’s health-care legislation and was among the
most frequent visitors to the White House last year.  Michelle Ringuette, an SEIU spokeswoman, said today the
union hasn’t been contacted by the FBI or any investigative
agency.  ‘Flat-Out False’  “To our knowledge this is flat-out false,” Ringuette said
of reports about an investigation into Stern. The Los Angeles
Times reported the investigation earlier today.  Opponents of the SEIU may be trying to “smear” the union,
Ringuette said in a phone interview.  Christopher Seagle, a spokesman for the Labor Department’s
inspector general, said he wouldn’t confirm or deny that the
office is investigating Stern.  Bill Carter , an FBI spokesman,
declined to comment.  The labor-union officials said investigators asked whether
Stern approved payments to Stephens, a former president of an
SEIU local that represents Los Angeles County government
workers. Stephens has been sentenced to four months in jail and
three months’ home confinement after pleading guilty to stealing
$52,000 from a voter outreach program.  Stern is now a research fellow at Georgetown University in
Washington and an SEIU consultant, as well as serving on the
commission studying ways to reduce the federal deficit.  ‘Full Federal Vetting’  “Andy went through a full federal vetting process before
he was put on the commission,” Ringuette said. “His book deal
was vetted by the SEIU board.”  “He never received royalties from the sale of the book,”
she said. “There was an airtight conflict of interest policy.”  The union talked to the U.S. attorney months ago about the
Stephens investigation, Ringuette said.  “We dismiss these unsubstantiated allegations as a
nuisance at a time when 25 million Americans are looking for
work, and we will not be distracted from fighting for a more
fair economy,” Ringuette said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holly  Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 