-- Mexico Landslide May Have Killed as Many as 1,000
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d   a n d   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o
-- 2010-09-28T18:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/mexico-landslide-in-oaxaca-may-have-killed-as-many-as-1-000-governor-says.html
An early morning landslide in
southern Mexican killed at least seven people and left 100
missing, Oaxaca state Governor  Ulises Ruiz  said.  Severe rains caused a hillside to collapse at about 4 a.m.
local time, burying homes in the town of Santa Maria
Tlahuitoltepec as residents slept, Ruiz said, citing information
from local authorities, news agency AFP reported.  Rescuers from the military are beginning to arrive in the
rural town, at least three hours by car from the state capital.
Access has been difficult because many roads are blocked by mud,
Ruiz said earlier today in an interview on the Televisa network.  “We’re sending machinery, army personnel, police,
ambulances and rescue workers,” Ruiz said.  Tropical Storm Matthew caused heavy flooding in much of
Oaxaca last week, and Mexico is in the midst of its rainy
season. The Oaxaca landslides come days after Hurricane Karl
forced some 16,000 people to evacuate their homes in Veracruz
state, about 280 miles (450 kilometers) north of Oaxaca on
Mexico’s Gulf coast. A landslide also killed at least five
people in the state of Mexico on Sept. 20.  Most of Santa Maria Tlahuitoltepec’s 9,000 residents are
from indigenous ethnic groups, and the majority make their
living from agriculture, according to the national statistics
 agency  and the state  government .  Rescue Efforts  The Mexican Red Cross is sending 40 health specialists to
Oaxaca to assist in the rescue, spokesman Rafael Gonzalez said.
The organization is also sending rescue dogs and 15 emergency
vehicles, he said in a phone interview from Mexico City.  About 300 houses may have been hit by the mudslide,
representing 10 percent of the dwellings in the town, said
Carlos Ramos Aragon, director of the state civil protection
agency, speaking in a telephone interview from Oaxaca.  Ramos Aragon said “some” military personnel had reached
the area. He spoke at 1 p.m. New York time on his way to the
affected town.  The Defense Ministry’s press office said it didn’t have any
additional information on the rescue efforts.  In Colombia, as many as 30 people were trapped after heavy
rains caused a landslide on a road near Medellin, Caracol Radio
reported today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Adriana Lopez Caraveo  in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  