-- Texting Bans Fail as Drivers Ignore Rules, Insurer Study Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2010-09-28T18:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/texting-bans-fail-as-u-s-drivers-ignore-rules-insurer-funded-study-says.html
Bans on texting while driving fail
to reduce crash rates because motorists ignore the rules,
according to a study by the Highway Loss Data Institute, a group
funded by the insurance industry.  Crashes increased in three of four states it surveyed where
driver texting was banned, according to the group’s  statement 
released today. The study focused on collision claims in the
states before and after they enacted bans.  Laws against texting from mobile phones have been enacted
in 30 states since 2004, and almost half of them this year, the
group said. The Obama administration has called for a federal
law outlawing driver texting. More than 5,800 traffic deaths
were tied to distracted driving in 2008, according to the U.S.
Department of Transportation.  “Texting bans haven’t reduced crashes at all,” said
 Adrian Lund , president of the Highway Loss Data Institute and
the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, in the statement.  Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  said the results were
misleading. They don’t match up with his agency’s research
showing that deadly distracted driving declines when laws are
strictly enforced, he said in a statement.  The “narrow findings” of the report fail to indicate that
all texting bans fail, and no evidence exists that state bans on
driver texting cause crashes, the National Safety Council said
in an e-mailed statement today. The council said the study took
place in the four states “when consistent, uniform and
effective enforcement was not in place.”  Laws must combine enforcement and public education for
texting bans to work, according to a statement today from
 Allstate Corp. , the largest publicly traded U.S. home and auto
insurer. “Legislation is only the first step,” said  Joan Walker ,
vice president of corporate relations for the Northbrook
Illinois-based company. “To have real impact, laws must be
strongly enforced.”  The Highway Loss Data Institute study covered four states
that prohibited driver texting in 2008 and 2009, California,
Louisiana, Minnesota and Washington. Lund said that the bans may
worsen the problem as drivers moved their phones out of sight to
avoid detection, shifting their eyes farther from the road.  Young drivers are more likely than older people to text
while driving, and collision rates among drivers younger than 25
increased in the four states studied. The biggest crash increase
in the study was among young drivers in California, where
collision claims rose 12 percent after the bans were enacted.  Drivers aged 18 to 24 were also the most likely to ignore
the laws, the study said. In states with bans, 45 percent of
that age group reported flouting the law, compared with 48
percent of drivers who said that they text while driving in
states without bans.  Crash increases among all drivers ranged from one percent
in Washington to nine percent in Minnesota, the study said.
Texting rose 60 percent, to 1.6 trillion in 2009, from 1
trillion messages in 2008, the institute said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at   dkraut@bloomberg.net . 