-- Facebook Backer Thiel to Give $100,000 Grants to Entrepreneurs
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-09-28T01:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/facebook-backer-thiel-to-give-100-000-grants-to-entrepreneurs.html
Facebook Inc. investor and board
member  Peter Thiel  plans to make 20 grants of as much as
$100,000 apiece to teenagers who have promising ideas for
technology businesses.  The investor’s  Thiel Foundation  will award as many as 20
grants to individuals or small teams of entrepreneurs by the end
of 2011, Thiel said today during a technology conference in San
Francisco. Some partners at the  Founders Fund , the venture
capital firm co-founded by Thiel, will act as advisers and
mentors to the grant winners.  The grants are aimed at removing some of the barriers, such
as heavy course loads and high college costs, that young people
face as they try to create businesses, Thiel said in an
interview. He was one of the first investors in Facebook, which
like  Microsoft Corp.  and Apple Inc., was founded by a person who
hadn’t completed college.  “We need to encourage young Americans to take more
risks,” Thiel said. Traditional education steers young people
away from entrepreneurship and into steady jobs, he said.
“While they are able to get certain types of jobs with it, the
problem is they can’t actually do anything that pays less in the
short term and may have more value in the long run.”  Thiel contributed to Facebook’s $500,000 first round of
funding in 2004, when founder  Mark Zuckerberg  was 20. Zuckerberg
hadn’t completed his undergraduate degree at  Harvard University 
when he began Facebook.  Napster Site  Besides Facebook, other startups created by teenagers in
recent years include  Halcyon Molecular , a genetic engineering
company, and Napster Inc., the music file-sharing site created
by programmer  Shawn Fanning , Thiel said. He was one of Halcyon’s
investors.  The greatest opportunities for new and world-changing
businesses may lie in the hard sciences, as opposed to consumer-
oriented Internet startups, Thiel said. A backer of rocket
builder  Space Exploration Technologies , Thiel is exploring
investments in artificial intelligence, robotics, biotechnology
and aerospace engineering.  Facebook, valued by secondary-share markets at about $30
billion, is undervalued, Thiel said.  A top candidate among Silicon Valley startups for an
initial public offering, Facebook is unlikely to make its IPO
until 2012, Thiel said. The offering would be one of the biggest
in the technology world since  Google Inc.  went public in 2004.  “They’re focused on building a great product and building
a great business around that product,” he said. “Google in
some ways did it right by waiting a long time to have their
IPO.”  Facebook was likely to put off an IPO until that time to
give Zuckerberg more time to gain users and boost sales, three
people familiar with the matter said in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 