-- Fixing Harvard Endowment Failures Will Take Mendillo Five Years
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2010-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/failures-of-harvard-endowment-will-take-five-years-to-fix-in-mendillo-plan.html
Shortly after she took over as
chief executive officer of Harvard Management Co. on July 1,
2008, Jane Mendillo gathered the university endowment’s 200-
member staff for a town-hall-style meeting at the Federal
Reserve Bank Building in downtown Boston, across the Charles
River from  Harvard University .  What did Mendillo think the outlook was for global markets?
asked one of the managers gathered on the fund’s 16th-story
trading floor. She replied that she didn’t follow them closely,
according to four people who were at the meeting.  It wasn’t long before the markets demanded Mendillo’s
attention -- and everyone else’s. In September 2008,  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc . collapsed, setting off a global rout. By
June 2009, 27 percent, or $10.1 billion, of investments at the
world’s richest university endowment was wiped out. That’s more
than any other Ivy League school lost in dollar or percentage
terms, and it sparked a round of cutbacks in everything from  capital spending  to student services, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in the November 2010 issue.  “I certainly didn’t expect that we would be in the type of
roiling markets and crisis conditions that the whole world found
itself in during the fall of 2008,” Mendillo, 52, says in an
interview. “We had to put the longer-term plans on hold.”  Unwinding Investments  Mendillo, who says she doesn’t believe she was asked about
her view of the markets at the 2008 meeting, has focused on
unwinding some of the endowment’s investments in private equity
and hedge funds made by her predecessors from 2005 to 2008 and
bringing more of Harvard’s money to in-house managers.  She has started to restructure the school’s real-estate
holdings, which lost 50 percent of their value in the year ended
on June 30, 2009. She has been increasing investments in natural
resources and timber, an area that she pioneered during an
earlier, 15-year stint at Harvard.  Mendillo has recouped some losses. In the fiscal year ended
on June 30, the endowment crept back up 11 percent to $27.4
billion, still 26 percent below its peak. That performance lags
behind the 13 percent median for public and corporate pensions,
endowments and foundations during that time, according to
Wilshire Associates Inc., a consulting firm based in  Santa
Monica ,  California .  The endowment of  Columbia University , for instance, gained
17 percent in the same period.  Yale University ’s increased 8.9
percent.  ‘Five-Year Proposition’  “It’s a five-year proposition to reshape a portfolio of
this kind,” says Mendillo, attired in a crimson knit suit and a
strand of pearls.  Mendillo’s bosses say they’re willing to give her time.
“Jane has been spectacular,” says James Rothenberg, a Harvard
Management board member who helped hire Mendillo. “It hasn’t yet
shown in terms of investment returns very dramatically, but I
don’t think that’s been the issue in the past couple years.”  After a phase of upheaval in which her two predecessors,
15-year veteran  Jack Meyer  and emerging-markets specialist
Mohamed El-Erian, exited within a three-year span, the board
wanted someone who would spend at least a decade at Harvard,
says Rothenberg, 64, who’s also the university’s treasurer and
chairman of Capital Research & Management Co., the owner of
American Funds.  In her first months on the job, Mendillo had to hasten to
raise funds to extricate the university from interest-rate swaps
it had entered into under former President  Lawrence Summers , a
Harvard economics professor who’s now an adviser to U.S. President  Barack Obama . The White House said in September that
Summers would resign and return to Harvard by year-end.  Battling Factions  Mendillo has also had to deal with battling factions:
alumni unhappy with the ways the school is spending its money,
students facing cuts in services and faculty looking at
diminished resources. Two top managers left to join El-Erian at
Pacific Investment Management Co., where he’s now CEO. Several
others quit. El-Erian declined to be interviewed for this
article.  “She got dealt a tough deck of cards,” says Walter Cabot,
who was Harvard’s chief investment officer for 16 years until he
left in 1990. “It’s going to take a while to work off their
private placements and time to work off their future
commitments. Hopefully, they’ve learned something.”  Still, the market crash didn’t deflect Mendillo’s focus
from her long-term goal of growing the endowment while managing
risk. “We are acutely aware that the investment portfolio must
support current university operations and maintain the
purchasing power of the endowment over time,” she says.  Virtual Hedge Fund  Mendillo honed her investing skills during the years she
spent working under Meyer, who transformed the endowment’s
portfolio from a sleepy mix of blue-chip stocks and bonds into a
virtual hedge fund with stakes in real estate, private equity
and natural resources.  Meyer made the richest university in the world even richer:
Harvard’s endowment quintupled under his leadership, to $25.9
billion in 2005 from $4.7 billion in 1990. By the time Mendillo
took over, Harvard had $36.9 billion, $14 billion more than
No. 2 Yale, her alma mater.  Harvard counted on its burgeoning wealth to finance its
ambitions. The school boosted salaries for faculty, recruited
top researchers, promised free education to low-income students
and extended financial aid to families earning $180,000 a year
or more.  50-Year Plan  In 2007, Harvard announced a grandiose 50-year expansion
plan that envisioned adding as many as 12,000 jobs and 10
million square feet (930,000 square meters) of new space,
including a $1 billion science center in Allston, across the
river from the main campus in Cambridge.  “Harvard made more plans than it so far has been able to
pay for,” says Lawrence Golub, 51, New York-based chairman of
private investment firm Golub Capital and a Harvard donor.  The school also increased its dependence on the endowment
fund’s returns. Under its mandate from Harvard Corp., which runs
the university, Harvard Management has to use its profits to
supply a set percentage of the university’s operating expenses.
That was 38 percent of the $3.8 billion annual budget in fiscal
2009, up from 23 percent a decade earlier.  The spending boom was a massive miscalculation for an
institution purported to be run and frequented by some of the
smartest people in the world.  Harvard admitted just 1 in 14 applicants for the class of
2014. It has educated eight U.S. presidents, including Franklin D. Roosevelt, John F. Kennedy and Obama. Many Nobel Prize
winners have been associated with the 374-year-old institution,
either as students, professors or researchers.  Hot Breakfasts  On a recent afternoon in Harvard Yard, students sit under
the trees typing on their laptops, and there are few overt signs
of the cutbacks the school announced after the crisis. Some
staff at residence halls has been trimmed, and one of the
libraries has been shut. Students complain that the school
scrapped hot morning meals in dorm dining rooms.  “Hot breakfasts are still the iconic issue,” senior Zane
Wruble, 21, says. “Perhaps we’re being too entitled about it,
but I do think that’s what most people are still upset about.”  The university froze pay for all faculty and nonunion
employees for the year ended on June 30, 2009, and 556 employees
took voluntary early retirement packages. Almost 275
administrative and support workers were fired.  On Hold  In Allston, a working-class neighborhood bisected by the
Massachusetts Turnpike that had pinned its economic hopes on
Harvard’s munificence, an empty foundation sits surrounded by
fencing where the science center was supposed to stand. The
project, which would have brought 1,500 jobs over 50 years, is
on hold indefinitely.  Harvard Management also had to tighten its belt. Mendillo
fired 50 people -- a quarter of her staff -- and cut the ranks
of outside fund managers by 20 percent, leaving a cadre of 150
to 200 firms that handle about two-thirds of the university’s
money.  She also reduced by almost half the $11 billion that her
predecessors had committed to hard-to-sell investments such as
those in private equity and real estate.  Harvard found itself with a cash crunch in the fall of
2008. Four years earlier, while Summers was president, the
university had bought interest-rate swaps, which were contracts
to protect the university from ballooning borrowing costs should
rates rise from 2.25 percent, where they stood at the time.  Wrong-Way Bet  It turned out to be a wrong-way bet. After the Lehman
collapse, rates plunged to zero, making the cost of the swaps
soar.  Mendillo tried to sell some assets to help the school raise
the $1 billion it needed to exit the swaps. She demurred when
she learned the size of the losses the school would have had to
take on the assets.  In December 2008, Harvard issued $2.5 billion of bonds,
refinancing $1 billion of existing debt and taking on an
additional $1.5 billion.  The timing was terrible: Harvard was borrowing money at a
time when the spread between yields on corporate bonds and U.S.
Treasury securities was the highest in at least 18 years,
according to data from Barclays Plc. A few weeks after Harvard
exited the interest-rate swaps, the contracts began to recover.  In January 2010, the school borrowed $400 million more,
increasing its debt to $6.5 billion, up 71 percent from 2007,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a Jan. 8 report.  Summers Flap  Summers resigned in 2006 after provoking a firestorm of
protest by suggesting in a speech that female students had less
aptitude for math and sciences than males. He also publicly
clashed with African-American studies professor Cornel West over
a hip-hop record West participated in. West now teaches at
Princeton. Summers declined to be interviewed for this story.  Today, Mendillo takes  Boston ’s T mass transit system’s Red
Line to Cambridge to meet with Summers’s successor, Drew Faust,
once a month.  Faust, a history professor and former dean of Harvard’s
Radcliffe Institute, which emphasizes women’s studies, is the
first woman to lead Harvard and the first president without a
degree from the school since Charles Chauncy in 1654. (Faust
received a bachelor’s degree in history from Bryn Mawr College
in suburban Philadelphia and her master’s and doctorate from the  University of Pennsylvania .)  Their talks center more on management than on what types of
assets to invest in.  ‘Reassured Alumni’  “Her role is not to pick stocks so much as it is to run the
whole organization,” Faust, 63, says.  “One of the impressive aspects of Jane’s performance is the
way she dealt with alums,” she adds. “She’s been pretty
transparent and has explained things clearly and has really
reassured our alumni community.”  Golub, who holds a bachelor’s, an MBA and a law degree from
Harvard, concurs. “There’s got to be a bigger communication and
political component of the role than there’s been in the past,”
he says.  Unlike El-Erian, who appeared frequently in the media
prognosticating about markets while at Harvard, Mendillo has
kept a low profile.  “Jane’s approach is more soft-spoken,” says Richard
Flannery, CEO of the Investment Fund for Foundations, whose
board Mendillo chaired from 2006 to 2009. “People would judge
that as a weakness at their peril.”  Mendillo also used New York-based public relations firm
Abernathy MacGregor Group Inc. as the fund faced questions from
alumni and faculty.  Building Bridges  “She can build bridges and listen to lots of people,” says
Harry Hoffman, a former business school classmate of Mendillo’s
who now manages $7.5 billion in investments and pension assets
at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,  Minnesota . “She’s not the kind
of person who feels she has to be noticed.”  Mendillo didn’t shun the limelight while growing up as the
middle of five children in New Britain,  Connecticut . Young Jane
was a high school cheerleader who also played Beethoven and
Chopin on the piano and performed in a production of South
Pacific, says her mother, Love Mendillo, 79, a retired
schoolteacher.  “She loved music and reading,” her mother says. “Anything
she could get her hands on, she read.”  The third generation of her family to attend Yale, Mendillo
majored in English literature. Her mother expected her to become
a writer.  A summer job at Yale’s investment office between her junior
and senior years changed Mendillo’s mind, her mother says. She
spent two years working at the university’s investment office
before getting her MBA from the Yale School of Management.  Bloodcurdling Scream  In graduate school, Mendillo was an academic standout. “She
was the star of my class by far -- a fabulous student,” says
Richard Levin, 63, her former economics professor and now the
president of Yale. “Some people learn economics and have
intuitive aptitude for the subject. She was among those.”  In 1983, Mendillo made her classmates laugh at a spring
follies skit in which students lampooned Levin. As students in
the skit pretended to nod off during a long, post-lunch lecture,
Mendillo suddenly let out a bloodcurdling scream, says Hoffman,
Mendillo’s former classmate.  The sketch was so popular that people were still talking
about it last year at the class’s 25-year reunion, Hoffman, 55,
says. Levin was played by another classmate, Ralph Earle, now
Mendillo’s husband of 24 years. Earle, a consultant, and
Mendillo have two teenage children.  Steel and Insurance  Mendillo joined Harvard in 1987 after learning about an
opening from Michael Eisenson, a fellow Yale alumnus who worked
at Harvard. She became a stock picker, assigned to steel and
insurance -- two industries no one else wanted to cover, she
says. She later oversaw trusts and gifts.  It was the endowment’s heyday. Meyer, a Harvard MBA who had
previously managed the Rockefeller Foundation’s investments, had
assembled a team of in-house traders that handled 85 percent of
Harvard’s endowment, compared with about 30 percent today.  Meyer assigned Mendillo to push into timberland, an area
now managed by a team that invests in natural resources around
the world, including agriculture in  South America . “There
weren’t many institutional investors,” Mendillo says. “Pricing
was extremely inefficient. We were able to go in and look for
things that were significantly underpriced relative to their
intrinsic value.”  Meyer’s investments were less liquid than the traditional
portfolios of U.S. stocks and bonds that Harvard had bought in
the past.  Managers Rewarded  The bets paid off. From 2000 to 2003, as the  Nasdaq
Composite Index  tumbled more than 60 percent, Harvard was
shielded. It fell 2.7 percent in the 12 months ended on June 30,
2001, and 0.5 percent the following year and then gained 12.5
percent a year later.  In the decade ended in June 2005, the endowment gained
16.1 percent annually compared with an 11.8 percent increase in
the university’s internal benchmark.  Meyer rewarded his top managers richly. Star bond traders
Maurice Samuels and David Mittelman were the highest paid in
2003, earning $35.1 million and $34.1 million apiece. The fat
paychecks aroused the ire of alumni, who said the money would be
better spent on scholarships.  Some members of the class of 1969 wrote a letter of
protest to Summers in 2003. Harvard spokesman John Longbrake
says the fund’s operating costs, including pay and bonuses,
amount to only 0.3 percent of funds under management.  The complaints prompted some managers to quit and set up
their own firms. Meyer himself quit in 2005, taking more than 30
Harvard staff members with him. His Boston-based Convexity
Capital Management LP as of Dec. 31 managed $10.6 billion for
college endowments, including a commitment of $500 million from
Harvard.  Move to Wellesley  Mendillo, who oversaw $7 billion as vice president of
external investments at Harvard, left in 2002 to become the
first chief investment officer at nearby Wellesley College.  There, she generated returns that averaged 13.5 percent
annually compared with 11 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index in the same period. Mendillo diversified the Wellesley
portfolio from stocks and bonds to so-called alternative assets
including private equity and real estate, a strategy popularized
by her former boss Meyer and David Swensen, the top-performing
endowment manager at Yale, on whose investment committee she sat
from 2002 to 2008.  When Mendillo returned to Harvard, Wellesley had a $1.7
billion endowment.  El-Erian, who had previously overseen $28 billion of
emerging-markets debt at Pimco, the world’s biggest manager of
bond funds, joined Harvard in February 2006. A graduate of
Cambridge University with a doctorate from Oxford University and
a former International Monetary Fund director, El-Erian had no
prior connection to Harvard or experience managing an endowment
with its multimanager, multi-asset-class structure.  While Meyer’s own staff had managed as much as 85 percent
of Harvard’s money, the percentage shrank under El-Erian to
about 30 percent. That was partly because so many in-house
managers had left with Meyer.  It was also because El-Erian had started allocating money
to hedge funds via Mark Taborsky, whom he hired from Stanford
University’s endowment to head investment with outside managers.
Within a year, Taborsky’s team revamped Harvard’s group of
managers, with some of those relationships forged in exchange
for longer lockups of capital, El-Erian wrote in his 2008 book
“When Markets Collide.”  Turnover Continues  In September 2007, El-Erian quit to return to Pimco.
The turnover continued as Mendillo moved into the H-shaped
Boston Federal Reserve Building, where she decorated her office
with family pictures and sidewalk art picked up from her travels
in  Europe .  Taborsky resigned and went to work for El-Erian, as did
Marc Seidner, the head of U.S. bond investing. Karen Parker Feld, who ran the foreign-exchange team, also quit.  Among those who remained at Harvard, Stephen Blyth, who led
the international fixed-income team, was disappointed at being
passed over for the top job, according to two people familiar
with the matter. Blyth, a 43-year-old Briton, previously led the
global rates proprietary trading group at Deutsche Bank AG in  London .  Blyth had joined the Harvard endowment staff after El-Erian
took over. “It was a deep visceral reaction,” Blyth says of the
prospect of working at Harvard, where he earned his Ph.D. in
statistics on a scholarship. “I have a deep connection to
Harvard.”  ‘Yale Sucks’  Blyth, who also teaches a statistics class at the school,
displays a T-shirt from a 1989 football game in his office. It’s
emblazoned with “Yale sucks” in red lettering.  Mendillo promoted Blyth to be in charge of all internal
investment managers, and he was won over by her cool head amid
the crisis. “She very quickly established herself as someone who
brought confidence to the whole organization,” he says. “She’s
very calm, very thoughtful.”  Blyth was her top-performing manager last year, earning
compensation of $6.4 million. That compares with $1 million for
Mendillo during the six months she spent at the fund in 2008.
Pay packages are far lower than in Meyer’s day.  Mendillo, whose bookshelf is dotted with Michael Lewis’s
Moneyball, Robert Shiller’s The New Financial Order and other
finance books, now links senior managers’ pay to the returns
they produce, unlike in the past, when pay was tied to
benchmarks.  Trying to Sell Assets  Mendillo has hired several former hedge fund managers and
has also poached John Barker, one of her two Wellesley deputies.
And she’s rearranging the fund’s mix of assets. She tried to
sell parts of its $5 billion in property holdings. The endowment
canceled the sale after talks with  China ’s sovereign wealth fund
collapsed, a person briefed on the matter said in September.  Mendillo declines to make projections on whether or when
Harvard’s endowment will return to its 2008 levels. “The success
of some investment decisions cannot be determined for probably a
decade or more,” she says.  At that time, if her bosses’ instincts are right, Mendillo
will still be at Harvard and can take the credit -- or the
blame.  Gillian Wee covers endowments at Bloomberg News in New
 York.gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in  New York  at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 