-- Fed's Lockhart Says Debate to `Intensify' on Possibility of Debt Purchases
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   J o s h   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-09-28T21:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/fed-s-lockhart-says-debate-will-intensify-on-prospect-of-debt-purchases.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the debate over whether policy
makers should undertake a new round of asset purchases will
“intensify” soon, and officials have the “will to act” as
needed to support the flagging U.S. recovery.  “In the coming weeks, monetary policy makers must come to
grips with the question of whether there is anything they can do
to improve the situation in the economy and, if so, what that
action should be,” Lockhart said in the text of a speech today
in Sewanee, Tennessee. While declining to take a position, he
said “this debate will intensify over the coming weeks.”  The Fed has “the will to act, or not, as demanded by
economic conditions in the near term,” he said, in remarks
about the Federal Open Market Committee’s decision last week to
move toward a second wave of unconventional monetary easing.  Fed
officials  said inflation is “somewhat below” levels consistent
with their congressional mandate for price stability, and said
for the first time that such a condition along with sluggish
growth would warrant taking more action.  “I do not expect outright deflation to develop,”
Lockhart, 63, said during the speech at The University of the
South. Yet “the slowing of the economy in the middle of this
year, combined with a very low measured rate of inflation,
suggests to me the risk of deflation cannot be dismissed.”  ‘Anemic’ Rate  The economy grew at an “anemic” annual rate of 1.6
percent in the second quarter and remains “weak” in the
current quarter, he said. While the slowdown should be
temporary, the U.S. will need to create at least 150,000 new
jobs a month to make “significant progress” on unemployment,
which was 9.6 percent as of August, he said.  “To summarize, the picture painted is one of lackluster
economic expansion with several drags on recovery,” said the
former Georgetown University professor, who joined the Atlanta
Fed in March 2007 and doesn’t vote on policy this year.
Businesses unsure about the economic outlook and direction of
fiscal policies remain reluctant to hire and careful about
spending, leading to slower growth and inflation that’s too low,
he said.  The dollar slid today as investors speculated the Fed will
increase purchases of debt to ensure the economic recovery. A
bigger-than-forecast drop in consumer confidence to the lowest
level since February and the smallest year-over-year gain in
home prices since March helped trigger bets that the Fed would
announce another round of U.S. bond purchases, a practice known
as quantitative easing.  Index Rose  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.5 percent to
1,147.70 at 4 p.m. New York, recovering from an early slump. The
Dollar Index, which measures the currency against six major
peers, slid to an eight-month low of 78.17.  The Fed’s Sept. 21 move positions the central bank to
expanding its near-record $2.3 trillion balance sheet as soon as
November. While the FOMC’s statement didn’t say what level of
inflation would be consistent with the Federal Reserve Act’s
directive, Fed officials indicated in June that they prefer
long-run inflation ranging from about 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  The Commerce Department’s personal consumption expenditures
price index rose 1.5 percent in the 12 months ended July.
Excluding food and energy costs, it rose 1.4 percent.  “The concern is that disinflation may tip over into
deflation,” or a broad and persistent decline in prices, he
said. “Deflation can be a very bad state of affairs for the
economy as a whole,” and “none of us wants an economy that
falls into a deflationary spiral.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Sewanee, Tennessee at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  