-- Druckenmiller's Exit Marks End of `Old Normal' for Investing, Gross Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-09-28T16:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/fed-quantitative-easing-likely-pimco-s-bill-gross-writes.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest mutual fund at  Pacific Investment Management Co. , said
the planned exodus of hedge-fund icon  Stanley Druckenmiller 
helps mark the end of the “old normal” for investing.  The departure of Druckenmiller, who has run Duquesne
Capital Management LLC since 1980, and that the Chicago-based
hedge-fund Citadel LLC is considering cutting fees on some funds
as it attempts to attract clients, “are reflective of a broader
trend in capital markets,” Gross wrote in a monthly investment
outlook on Pimco’s  website  today. “The new normal has a new set
of rules. Leverage and deregulation are fading from the horizon
and their polar opposites are in the ascendant,” Gross added.  Druckenmiller told investors last month he’d been worn down
by the stress of trying to maintain one of the best trading
records in the industry while managing an “enormous amount of
capital.”  Citadel LLC, the $11.1 billion firm founded by  Ken Griffin , is said to be considering cutting fees on the
Kensington and Wellington hedge funds, according to two people
with knowledge of the firm’s plans.  The “new normal” will be an environment where “future
investment returns will be far lower than historical averages,”
Gross added. “If bond investors believe that the resplendent
and abundant capital gains of the past 25 years will be
duplicated from yield levels of 2 to 3 percent -- well, they
just haven’t been to Japan, have they?”  ‘Idiotic’  Ken Fisher , the billionaire chief executive officer of
Fisher Investments Inc., said today that the concept of a “new
normal” is “idiotic,” pitting him against Gross and Pimco
Chief Executive  Mohamed El-Erian , who coined the term to
describe a world of high unemployment, more regulation, and the
shrinking importance of the U.S. in the global economy. Gross,
the founder a Pimco, and El-Erian serve as co-chief investment
officers.  “We are chimpanzees with no memory,” Fisher said at the
Forbes Global CEO Conference in Sydney. “The next 10 years are
going to be just as good as the 1990s. The problems in this
current environment we think are so different, and so new and so
unique. It’s the same stupid old normal we’ve always had. We’ve
got a great future.”  Even as the best route to economic prosperity is the “good
old-fashioned route,” involving things like investment
production and new technology development, the Federal Reserve
policy makers will resort to “reflation” through a combination
of low interest rates and “quantitative easing,” wrote Gross,
who runs the $248 billion  Total Return Fund .  Total Return Fund  The fund has returned 11 percent in the past 12 months,
outpacing 69 percent of his competition, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It gained 1.12 percent over the past
month. Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer Allianz SE,
managed, managed about $1.1 trillion of assets as of June 30.  Gross reduced his  holdings  of government-related debt in
the fund for a second consecutive month in August as Treasury
yields fell to an 19-month low, according to the latest data
available on the Newport Beach, California-based firm’s  website .
The Total Return Fund’s investment in the debt was cut to 36
percent of assets in August, from 54 percent the previous month.  Pension Funds  Pension fund portfolios will likely return well below the 8
percent average that some funds assume, according to Gross. With
most these portfolios split with 60 percent in equities and 40
percent in bonds, an 8 percent return would require nearly a 12
percent return on equities, given bond yields are about 2.5
percent, which isn’t probable, added Gross. Pension portfolio
returns have actually averaged about 3 percent over the past 10
years, Gross wrote.  Less than half the 50 state retirement systems had assets
to pay for 80 percent of promised benefits in their 2009 fiscal
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S.
recession and stock-market collapse drained about $835 billion
of value from the 100 largest public  funds,  according to U.S.
Census Bureau data.  “The most likely consequence of stimulative government
policies that strain to get us there will be a declining dollar
and a lower standard of living,” Gross wrote in the note.
“Stan Druckenmiller is leaving, and with good reason. A future
of low investment returns, and a heap of trouble for those
expecting more, is what lies ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  