-- Lockhart Says Need for More Fed Easing Not Foregone Conclusion
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   J o s h   Z u m b r u n
-- 2010-09-29T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/federal-reserve-s-lockhart-says-need-for-more-monetary-easing-isn-t-clear.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said policy makers haven’t agreed on
whether to begin a new program of buying Treasuries, and the
need for further monetary easing isn’t clear.  “For me, personally, it is not a foregone conclusion that
more accommodation is required,” he told reporters after a
speech yesterday in Sewanee, Tennessee. “I am not yet of a firm
mind of what exactly that problem is, and for that reason I’m
not yet committed to a particular course of action that might
involve further accommodation.”  Policy makers said after a meeting on Sept. 21 that too-low
inflation and sluggish growth may warrant a second round of
unconventional easing. Fed officials “must come to grips” in
the coming weeks “with the question of whether there is
anything they can do to improve the situation in the economy
and, if so, what that action should be,” Lockhart said in his
speech about the Federal Open Market Committee’s decision.  “If in six months or 12 months the economy is operating at
the low level it is today” and unemployment is 9.5 percent or
higher, “I will be comfortable with taking action,” he said.  The economy grew at an “anemic” annual rate of 1.6
percent in the second quarter and remains “weak” in the
current quarter, he said. While the slowdown should be
temporary, the U.S. will need to create at least 150,000 new
jobs a month to make “significant progress” on unemployment,
which was 9.6 percent as of August, he said.  ‘Several Drags’  “To summarize, the picture painted is one of lackluster
economic expansion with several drags on recovery,” said the
former Georgetown University professor, who joined the Atlanta
Fed in March 2007 and doesn’t vote on policy this year.
Businesses unsure about the economic outlook and direction of
fiscal policies remain reluctant to hire and careful about
spending, leading to slower growth and inflation that’s too low,
he said.  Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh  said yesterday financial markets
and the economy are getting better without being fully healed,
and the central bank can help foster growth by acting in a
predictable way.  “Markets are normalizing if not normal,” Warsh said
during a panel discussion at Georgetown University in
Washington. “The economy is improving if not improved.” For
the Fed, “the clearest that we can be about decisions we’re
going to make going forward, the better,” he said.  The dollar slid yesterday as investors speculated the Fed
will increase purchases of debt to ensure the economic recovery.
A bigger-than-forecast drop in consumer confidence to the lowest
level since February and the smallest year-over-year gain in
home prices since March helped trigger bets that the Fed would
announce another round of U.S. bond purchases, a practice known
as quantitative easing.  Index Rose  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.5 percent to
1,147.70 yesterday in New York, recovering from an early slump.
The Dollar Index, which measures the currency against six major
peers, slid to an eight-month low of 78.17.  Fed officials  said in their Sept. 21 statement that
inflation is “somewhat below” levels consistent with their
congressional mandate for price stability. The Fed’s decision
positions the central bank to expand its near-record $2.3
trillion balance sheet as soon as November.  The debate among policy makers on the “diagnosis of our
economic troubles and the appropriate prescription” will
“intensify over the coming weeks,” Lockhart said, adding that
he and his staff “will be tackling these and related questions
to prepare for the important decisions coming.”  ‘One Gets Nervous’  While the FOMC’s statement didn’t say what level of
inflation would be consistent with the Federal Reserve Act’s
directive, Lockhart said after his speech that 1.5 percent to 2
percent is a “healthy rate of inflation.” He added that a low
rate of inflation “requires very careful watching” and “one
gets nervous around 1 percent or lower.”  The Commerce Department’s personal consumption expenditures
price index, excluding food and energy costs, rose at a 1.4
percent rate in July and has been below a 2 percent year-over-
year rate for 20 consecutive months.  “I do not expect outright deflation to develop,”
Lockhart, 63, said during the speech at The University of the
South. Yet “the slowing of the economy in the middle of this
year, combined with a very low measured rate of inflation,
suggests to me the risk of deflation cannot be dismissed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Sewanee, Tennessee at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  