-- FedEx, Delta Shipments Signal Holiday Sales Pickup
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2010-09-28T20:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/fedex-li-fung-shipments-signal-improved-u-s-holiday-sales.html
A pickup in shipments to U.S.
stores by  FedEx Corp.  and Delta Air Lines Inc. signals a
brighter holiday sales season for retailers.  Delta , which handles more air freight than any other U.S.
airline, will have a “perfectly decent” holiday season, Neel
Shah, cargo unit vice president, said in a Sept. 8 interview.
Shipments are “solid” at FedEx, the world’s second-largest
package-shipping company, Chief Executive Officer  Fred Smith 
said on a Sept. 16 conference call.  “It’s a lot better than last year, our orders are way
ahead,”  Bruce Rockowitz , president of Hong Kong-based  Li & Fung
Ltd. , said in an interview on Sept. 17 in New York. The company
is the biggest supplier of clothes and toys to U.S. retailers
such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and  Target Corp.   Shipments are being fueled by retail inventories that are
close to record lows at the current sales pace, meaning stores
must replenish shelves ahead of the biggest shopping period of
the year. While the recession ended in June 2009, the loss of
more than 8 million jobs has prompted retailers to discount
merchandise to attract customers.  ‘Better Place’  “We expect a very, very competitive and aggressive
Christmas and holiday selling season, price-focused,”  William Simon , head of Wal-Mart’s U.S. stores, said at an analyst
presentation on Sept. 15. “Customers are focused on their
savings,” and “challenged” by unemployment close to a 26-year
high, he said.  While “nobody knows what the consumer’s going to do,”
retailers, with leaner inventories this year, “are in a better
place,” Li & Fung’s Rockowitz said.  Toys ‘R’ Us Inc. , the world’s biggest toy retailer, today
said it plans to hire about 45,000 employees to cope with
holiday demand, about 10,000 more people than in the prior year.
The move is “essentially doubling” the domestic workforce, the
Wayne, New Jersey-based company said in a statement.  Jon Langenfeld , transportation analyst at Milwaukee-based
Robert W. Baird & Co. Inc., said Asian deliveries herald
increased U.S. activity as goods make their way from planes and
ships to trucks. Baird’s Asian Port Index climbed 16.2 percent
in August from a year ago, and its Asian Airfreight Index was up
about 23 percent. The Baird U.S. Truck Freight Index rose 4.7
percent, while it was down 9.4 percent in August 2009.  Constrained by Jobless  Retailers’ holiday sales from November through January will
rise 2 percent from a year earlier, according to Deloitte LLP’s
retail group, following a 1 percent gain in 2009. A year ago,
Americans had no plans to boost spending, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy, after retrenching during the
worst recession since the 1930s, a Bloomberg News survey showed
at the time.  “Household spending is increasing gradually, but remains
constrained by high unemployment, modest income growth, lower
housing wealth, and tight credit,” Federal Reserve policy
makers said in a statement on Sept. 21. They kept the benchmark
interest rate near a record low and said they’re willing to ease
monetary policy further to spur growth.  With consumers waiting later and later to make purchases,
retailers may step up the last-minute deals, said  Walter Todd ,
who helps manage $850 million at Greenwood Capital Inc. in
Greenwood, South Carolina.  Last-Minute Deals  “Shippers are going to get paid regardless of whether the
merchandise at retailers sells,” said Todd, whose holdings
include shares of Wal-Mart, Target and  United Parcel Service
Inc.  “If the stock market continues to do well, and once the
elections are over, consumers may begin to feel better, and that
could give a boost to holiday sales.”  That indicates “upside” to the share price of companies
ranging from Target, the second-biggest U.S. discount retailer,
to luxury chains  Tiffany & Co.  and  Coach Inc. , “where there’s
risk but potentially more reward,” he said.  Target shares have gained more than 12 percent this year.
Coach shares have gained almost 20 percent, while Tiffany has
increased more than 9 percent. Target gained 14 cents today to
close at $54.53, while shares of Tiffany gained $1.25 to $47.11
and Coach gained $1.14 to $43.71.  Stores are restocking as their inventory-to-sales ratio
fell to 1.33 in March and April, the lowest since comparable
records began in 1992. The latest data show chains in July had
enough goods on hand to meet 1.38 months’ worth of sales at the
current pace.  Shares This Year  The ratio “is way too low,”  Gene Huang , FedEx’s chief
economist, said in a Sept. 21 interview. “Even if you have
stabilized consumption demand, you need restocking. So that will
give you confidence that this holiday season should be pretty
good.”  Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy Co.’s stockpiles are up
6 percent from a year earlier.  The inventory “puts us in great position for the
holidays,”  Brian Dunn , chief executive officer of Best Buy, the
world’s largest consumer-electronics retailer, said in a Sept.
14 interview.  Success at ordering enough of the key products, without
having too much left over to discount, will determine the
season’s winners and losers. Best Buy is expanding offerings of
Apple Inc.’s iPad to all its U.S. locations and devoting more
space to the so-called tablets category.  Toys ‘R’ Us  will operate 600 mall-based temporary stores
for the holidays. It had 90 so-called pop-up stores last year.
The retailer expects video games to rebound with the release of
Microsoft Corp.’s Kinect and Sony Corp.’s Move, both competitors
of Nintendo Co.’s Wii.  Closely held Toys R Us is building more inventories than
last year, and expects “a great holiday,” Chief Executive
Officer  Gerald Storch  told reporters on Sept. 15 in New York.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
 Anthony Feld  in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  