-- Fernandez Rejects 8% Yield Overseas to Pay 12% in Pesos: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-09-28T21:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/fernandez-rejects-8-yield-overseas-to-pay-12-in-pesos-argentina-credit.html
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is holding off on selling bonds abroad at
the lowest yields in two years, forcing the central bank to pay
12 percent interest in pesos as she uses reserves to pay debt.  Fernandez said Sept. 24 that she isn’t interested in
selling bonds at an 8 percent yield while the government has
access to reserves earning 0.5 percent interest. The average
yield on Argentine  dollar bonds  fell to a two-year low of 9.82
percent last week after the June completion of a $12.9 billion
debt restructuring, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  The government has spent $5 billion of reserves this year
and plans to use another $7.5 billion in 2011, Economy Minister
 Amado Boudou  said. Policy makers finance these reserves by
issuing local debt paying about 12 percent to 14 percent, above
the official inflation rate of 11.1 percent, compared with a
yield of about 0.25 percent on one-year U.S. Treasury notes.  “The reserves aren’t free,”  Miguel Kiguel , the 56-year-
old former finance undersecretary who runs research company
Econviews, said in a phone interview from Buenos Aires. “The
central bank buys them with pesos that it pays about 12 percent
to remove from the monetary supply.”  The weekly auction of local notes, known as Lebacs, takes
place today. Last week the bank’s 126-day notes yielded 11.9
percent while 504-day notes sold at 14.2 percent, the bank said
in a Sept. 21 statement. It sold a total of 2.5 billion pesos
($631 million) of the securities.  Sale Delayed  The total supply of central bank notes maturing in one
month to three years rose to 60.4 billion pesos this month from
34.1 billion in June of last year, it said.  Boudou delayed a sale of as much as $1 billion in bonds
during the debt restructuring, saying South America’s second-
biggest economy didn’t need additional financing this year and
that it would wait until rates fell under 10 percent. Argentina
hasn’t sold bonds since a record 2001 default on $95 billion of
debt.  “Today rates are in the single digits but we aren’t
interested in taking on debt that could be at 8 or 8.75 percent,
because in reality we can pay debt with reserves that are
earning 0.5 percent,” Fernandez told reporters in New York last
week. Reserves are a “rational” use of the savings, she said.  The reserves have climbed about 7 percent this year to $51
billion amid a record 55-million metric ton soybean harvest and
surging automobile sales to neighboring Brazil.  A message left with the central bank’s press office for
comment wasn’t returned.  Holding Out  “When they say there’s no cost in using reserves, well,
there is a cost,”  Bret Rosen , a Latin America debt strategist
with Standard Chartered Bank in New York, said in a phone
interview. “Her strategy right now is to hold out” for rates
to fall further.  Buenos Aires province sold $550 million of five-year notes
yesterday, its first international bond sale since 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The province sold the
11.75 percent notes to yield 12 percent.  Shareholders of Aeropuertos Argentinas 2000 SA, the
country’s main airport operator, earlier this month approved
plans to sell as much as $300 million in bonds.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Argentine debt fell
16 basis points to 746 yesterday. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Warrants  The  extra yield investors  demand to own Argentine bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries slid six basis points to 672 at 5:13
p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy fell 0.02 cent to 11.83 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The peso fell 0.3 percent to 3.9725 per
dollar.  Boudou originally canceled the $1 billion debt sale
following the economic crisis in Greece, which prompted
investors to pull back from emerging markets.  Fernandez’s decision to hold out for lower rates could
backfire, said  Claudia Calich , who helps manage $1.5 billion in
emerging market debt, including Argentine bonds, at Invesco
Advisers Inc. in New York.  “It’s always hard to pick the absolute low point in
yields,” Calich said in a phone interview. “At what point do
you want to finally issue, even if it’s a small amount, just to
test the waters and reintroduce Argentina to the capital
markets?”  Fueling Inflation  Paying debt with reserves also fuels inflation by freeing
up budget money for other uses, said  Claudio Loser , a former
International Monetary Fund official, in a Sept. 22 interview.
Consumers expect prices to rise 25 percent over the next year, ,
more than double the official rate and the most in the world
after Venezuela, according to a Sept. 15 survey by Buenos Aires-
based Torcuato Di Tella University.  Argentina’s economy will expand as much as 9.5 percent this
year, the fastest since 1992,  Banco Central de la Republica 
Argentina said, after growing 0.9 percent in 2009. That puts the
country in a “position of strength” for now, Rosen said.  “They are awash in cash,” Rosen said. “If economic
conditions globally were to change dramatically you may not have
the ability to use $7 billion or $8 billion in reserves per year
to service debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  