-- Fewer U.S. CEOs Project Gains in Sales, Employment
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2010-09-28T17:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/fewer-ceos-see-sales-hiring-gains-in-business-roundtable-s-economic-index.html
Chief executive officers in the
U.S. turned less optimistic in the third quarter as fewer
projected sales and hiring will improve, a survey showed.  The Business Roundtable’s economic outlook index fell to 86
in the July-to-September period, the first decrease since the
beginning of 2009 when the gauge dropped to a record-low of
minus 5, the Washington-based group said today. Readings higher
than 50 coincide with an economic expansion. The gauge fell from
a second-quarter reading of 94.6, the highest since 2006.  Sixty-six percent of respondents said they expect sales
will grow in the next six months, down from 79 percent in the
second quarter, while 31 percent said they will add to payrolls,
a decrease of 8 percentage points. At the same time, companies
are taking the opportunity to invest in new equipment, signaling
capital spending will be a source of strength for the U.S.
economy.  “This is, and will continue to be, somewhat of a long and
uneven recovery,”  Ivan G. Seidenberg , chairman of the Business
Roundtable and chief executive officer of New York-based  Verizon
Communications Inc. , said today in a teleconference. “We’re not
seeing a lot of major momentum develop here.”  Forty-nine percent of executives said they plan to spend
more on equipment, up from 43 percent, the survey showed.  Cut Forecast  The executives reduced their economic growth forecasts to
1.9 percent for 2010 from 2.7 percent in the previous survey.
That compares with the 2.7 percent median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News from Sept. 1-8.  “We’re not seeing business fundamentals deteriorate to the
point where we would be concerned in a major way about a double
dip,” or another recession, said Seidenberg, 63.  The Business Roundtable survey, taken from Sept. 1 to Sept.
21, included the responses of 125 chief executive officers.  A separate survey today showed confidence among U.S.
consumers fell in September to the lowest level in seven months
as Americans became less optimistic about the labor market.  The Conference Board’s  index of confidence  declined to
48.5, lower than forecast, from 53.2 the prior month, figures
from the New York-based private research group showed today. The
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for
a decline to 52.1.  “We’re still seeing some caution from consumers and
companies alike, and when consumers are cautious, it decreases
demand projections,” Seidenberg said. “CEOs need to see
growing demand in order to increase hiring.”  Jobs Lost  The recession that began in December 2007 led to the loss
of about 8.4 million jobs, the biggest employment slump in the
post-World War II era. So far this year, companies have added
763,000 jobs. The  unemployment  rate was 9.6 percent in August,
up from 9.5 percent in July.  Textron Inc ., a Providence, Rhode Island-based maker of
airplanes and member of the Business Roundtable, said Sept. 21
it is cutting 700 jobs and adjusting production schedules at its
Cessna unit because of continued weakness in new orders.  Indianapolis-based appliance and electronics retailer
 hhgregg Inc . last week announced it was seeking to fill 50 sales
positions each at new stores in Manassas, Virginia, and Erie,
Pennsylvania.  President  Barack Obama  this month proposed a package of
$180 billion in business tax breaks and infrastructure spending
to boost job growth. That would be in addition to the $814
billion in stimulus measures enacted last year.  Fiscal Policy  Obama and Congress should work to accelerate policy
decisions before the end of the year, including measures on tax
cuts, financial regulation, and health care reform, to clear up
uncertainty for businesses, Seidenberg said.  While lawmakers debate whether to extend all or some of the
George W. Bush-era tax cuts, a significant tax increase could
impede the recovery, Seidenberg said.  “As far as we’re concerned, you have a big tax increase
during this period of time, it’s not going to help the growth of
the economy,” he said.  Seidenberg, who serves on the President’s Exports Council,
also said Business Roundtable respondents agree with the
administration’s stance that China needs to let its currency
strengthen.  The Business Roundtable is an association of CEOs of
corporations representing a combined workforce of more than 12
million employees and almost $6 trillion in annual revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  