-- Sportswear Maker Fila Korea Doubles From IPO Price on Seoul Exchange Debut
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2010-09-28T07:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/fila-korea-doubles-on-seoul-debut-after-oversubscribed-initial-share-sale.html
Fila Korea Ltd. , which bought
worldwide rights to the sports apparel brand in 2007, had the
second-best debut on South Korea’s Kospi Index this year amid
speculation new products and royalty income will boost earnings.  The Seoul-based company  surged  to 68,700 won at the 3 p.m.
close on the Korea Exchange, almost doubling from the initial
public offering price of 35,000 won, amid demand from investors
who missed out on buying the stock in its IPO. The benchmark
 index  fell 0.3 percent.  Fila Korea and some of its shareholders raised 113.8
billion won ($99 million) by offering 3.25 million new and
existing shares at the top end of the indicative price range.
The company will use some of the funds from the sale to repay
debt, according to a Sept. 9 filing.  “The company is expected to boost its domestic market
share by launching new brands and by strengthening the shoes
business, while its global royalty income is also rising,”
 Chung Yon Woo , an analyst at Daishin Securities Co., wrote in a
note today. “It’s also positive that the company has a joint
venture in China where there’s great potential.”  Fila Korea received bids for about 330 times the number of
shares allocated to individual investors in the IPO, said
Samsung Securities Co., which arranged the sale.  Clothing sales may benefit from an economy that was
forecast by the Bank of Korea in July to expand 5.9 percent this
year, faster than the estimate of 5.2 percent in April. Private
consumption will probably increase 3.9 percent this year, the
central bank said.  South Korean companies have raised 9.5 trillion won in IPOs
this year, almost three times the 3.4 trillion won of shares
sold last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 Kospi Index  has climbed 10 percent this year, adding to last
year’s 50 percent gain.  Among companies that listed shares this year, Woojin Inc.
posted the biggest first-day gain from its IPO price, soaring by
130 percent, according to data provided by Korea Exchange Inc.,
the nation’s bourse operator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saeromi Shin  in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua in at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  