-- Ford Expects Loss of Investors to GM Will Be `Muted'
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-09-28T21:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/ford-says-loss-of-investors-to-general-motors-will-be-muted-.html
Ford Motor Co. ’s loss of
institutional investors to General Motors Co. after its planned
initial public offering will be “muted,” Ford Treasurer  Neil Schloss  said today in an interview.  “I’m not overly worried about what GM’s IPO does,”
Schloss said when asked how the stock sale will affect Ford’s
shares. “I think it’s muted. We have to continue with our
results, and if we do, our investors will stay with us.”  Executive Chairman  Bill Ford  said in August that some
 investors  may reduce their holdings in the second-largest U.S.
automaker to buy shares in GM’s IPO and spread their risk across
the automotive industry. GM, 61 percent owned by the U.S.
Treasury, filed in August for a share sale that would cut the
government’s stake and mark the Detroit-based company’s return
to public markets after filing for bankruptcy last year.  “We don’t sense that anybody is full-exposure in autos, so
to the extent that they like GM and like Ford there’s no reason
why they can’t  hold  them both,” Schloss, 51, said in the
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  Schloss, who joined Ford in 1982, said investors will make
relative-value trades of Ford depending on where GM prices its
IPO. GM probably will seek to raise $8 billion to $10 billion in
November, a smaller sale than the automaker originally targeted,
two people familiar with the matter said last week.  “I’m sure a lot of guys are underweight autos, but the GM
IPO still might hurt them,” said  Joe Phillippi , principal of
AutoTrends Inc., a consulting firm in Short Hills, New Jersey.
Some investors “will have to either stay with their Ford bet or
hedge their bet by selling some Ford and buying GM.”  Economy Recovering  The U.S. economy is recovering, “but it’s not going
anywhere fast,” Schloss said. Ford is “nervous” about Europe
and the austerity programs being implemented in the region.  In Asia, “growth is there, it’s just a little lighter than
it has been,” he said.  Ford, based in Dearborn, Michigan, rose 4 cents to $12.52
at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The
shares have gained 25 percent this year.  Ford earned $4.7 billion in the year’s first six months,
the  largest first-half profit  since 1998. Sales of redesigned
models such as the Taurus and Fusion sedans helped propel the
automaker’s U.S. sales to an 18 percent increase this year,
compared with an industrywide gain of 8 percent.  ‘On a Trajectory’  Ford is “on a trajectory” to returning to an investment-
grade credit rating, Schloss said. Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally , who left Boeing Co. to lead the automaker four years
ago, told an aviation-industry group in New York on Sept. 15
that Ford “is going to be back to investment grade a lot sooner
than what we thought.”  “To get to an investment-grade rating, they have a lot of
cash they’re going to have to raise through operations or
through equity issuance,”  Kip Penniman , a debt analyst at KDP
Investment Advisors in Montpelier, Vermont, said yesterday in an
interview. “Ford can certainly get to investment grade, but I
think the question on how soon is really a macro call.”  Standard & Poor’s raised Ford’s credit rating last month
two steps to B+, the fourth level below investment grade.
Moody’s Investors Service rates Ford B1, also the fourth level
below investment grade. Speculative-grade debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  Bond Sales  “We’re trying to make an argument where it’s going to be
really hard for them not to” rate Ford investment-grade,
Schloss said.  Ford’s finance arm,  Ford Motor Credit Co. , has tapped the
corporate bond market four times this year, selling $4.5 billion
of notes, according to Bloomberg data.  Ally Financial Inc. , the
auto and home lender majority owned by the U.S., is the only
junk-rated company to sell more this year, the data show.  Ford’s 7.45 percent notes due in July 2031 rose 0.25 cent
on the dollar to 102.15 cents on the dollar at 2:49 p.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 