-- Ford Sets Price Guide on $500 Million Securities Backed by Dealer Payments
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-09-28T18:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/ford-sets-price-guidance-on-500-million-of-asset-backed-bonds.html
Ford Motor Credit Co. ’s $500
million bond offering backed by dealer payments may yield from
70 basis points to 75 basis points more than the benchmark
interest rate, according to a person familiar with the
transaction.  The top-rated bonds mature in about three years, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
public. The issue may be sold as soon as today, the person said.
The debt is backed by so-called floorplan loans that car dealers
use to buy inventory.  Ford Motor Credit, the finance arm of the Dearborn,
Michigan-based automaker, last sold similar debt in March with
help from the Federal Reserve’s Term Asset-Backed Securities
Loan Facility. The previous offering totaled $1.13 billion, with
the top-rated portion maturing in about five years and priced to
yield 170 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate,
Bloomberg data show.  “It seems like the worst of the cycle is over for the
automakers,” said John McElravey, an analyst at Wells Fargo
Securities LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina. “That’s one of the
reasons spreads have come in. There is more clarity on what’s
going to happen.”  Jumpstart from Fed  The Federal Reserve started TALF in March 2009 to revive
the securities market backed by consumer payments on car loans,
student debt and credit cards. Sales of so-called asset-backed
debt plummeted 42 percent in 2008, choking off funding to banks
and finance companies.  Bert Boeckmann, owner of Galpin Motors in Los Angeles, said
his net cost of borrowing for Ford inventory is about 2 percent
to 3.25 percent. He uses floor-planning to pay for about 90
percent of new cars on the lot.  “The cost of flooring the business pretty much follows the
market and the cost of money,” he said today in a telephone
interview.  Galpin , which Boeckmann predicted would have sales of more
than $500 million this year, carries Ford cars and trucks
including F-150 pick-ups, Mustangs, and sport utility vehicles
such as the Expedition and Explorer.  The brand accounts for about 40 percent of his business,
Boeckmann said. Galpin also sells Aston Martin, Honda and Jaguar
brands, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein{ at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  