-- French First-Half Commercial-Property Values Gain, Ending Two-Year Slide
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-09-28T07:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/french-first-half-commercial-property-values-gain-ending-two-year-slide.html
French commercial-property values 
rose in the six months through June, snapping a two-year decline
as investors competed to buy the best office buildings,
Investment Property Databank Ltd. said.  Properties ranging from apartment blocks to shops gained
1.6 percent in the period, according to the London-based
 research company ’s semi-annual index. Values fell 0.4 percent
over the 12 months through June, after a drop in the second-half
of 2009, IPD said.  Commercial values in France dropped 18 percent in the past
two years after the financial crisis caused investment demand to
collapse and companies became reluctant to expand, stifling
rental growth. The price slide persuaded investors such as
German insurer  Allianz SE  to acquire prime buildings, targeting
Paris offices in particular.  “French property has finally turned the corner,”
Christian de Kerangal, IPD’s managing director for southern
Europe, said in the report. “Since mid-2009, we have seen quite
a lot of cash-rich investors seeking to buy prime stock --
properties in prime locations, with financially strong tenants
on longer leases.”  Allianz agreed in May to acquire part of the Capital 8
office complex. The property includes three buildings near
Paris’s Parc Monceau that are fully leased to investment bank
Rothschild & Compagnie and corporate finance adviser Aforge SA.
The purchase price was about 240 million euros ($323 million).  Central Paris  Paris’s central business district had the biggest gains in
the period at 2.8 percent, followed by La Defense on the city’s
western fringe. The Paris region is Europe’s largest office
market by size, making it the favorite location for
international investors after London.  Across France, office values gained the most, with a 2.4
percent rise that was double the rate for shops and mixed-use
buildings. Warehouses and industrial sites depreciated by 1.4
percent in the period.  If rental income is added, owners of French commercial
properties made a profit of 4.7 percent on their investment in
the six months. The gains multiply if debt is included.  IPD compiled its semi-annual index using appraisals of
1,480 properties across France worth an estimated 33.9 billion
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 