-- G-20 Officials Seek Currency Policy Compromise
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-09-28T14:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/g-20-seeks-exchange-rate-truce-amid-charge-nations-cheapening-currencies.html
Leaders of Group of 20 nations may
ease tensions over exchange-rate policies by the end of their
November summit, a South Korean official said after Brazil
warned of deepening divisions.  “Policy makers are talking over the currency issue and
thus I expect they will be able to find a compromise at the
Seoul summit,” Sakong Il, chairman of the nation’s presidential
committee for the summit, told reporters in Seoul today. He
didn’t elaborate on what kind of solution may be found.  Sakong’s comments come a day after Brazilian Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said a “currency war” has begun, with
nations seeking to cheapen their exchange rates to bolster
exports. Japan this month broke a six-year policy by selling
yen, joining countries across Asia and Latin America that have
tempered gains in their currencies against the dollar in a move
that drew criticism from the U.S. and euro area.  “You’re bound to have these reactions which I think are
very dangerous because they lead to a beggar-thy-neighbor
attitude,”  Jacques de Larosiere , the former head of the
International Monetary Fund and Bank of France, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Brussels today.  Since G-20 leaders began holding summits in November 2008,
they have pledged not to raise or impose trade barriers, seeking
to avoid the type of protectionist measures that crippled the
global economy in the 1930s.  G-20 Pledges  The G-20 pledged in April 2009 in London to “refrain from
competitive devaluation” of their currencies, and the leaders
said at their last gathering in Toronto in June that “market-
oriented exchange rates that reflect underlying economic
fundamentals contribute to global economic stability.”  Even so, Mantega said yesterday said that “we are
experiencing a currency war -- devaluing currencies artificially
is a global strategy.” He added that his government will buy
all “excess dollars” in the market to curb the real’s
appreciation. “We’re already buying a bigger volume of currency
-- we’ll keep buying.”  China has incurred international criticism for limiting
gains in its exchange rate. The yuan has risen about 2 percent
versus the dollar since the People’s Bank of China in June
pledged greater flexibility in the currency after pegging it
around 6.83 for two years.  Currency Selling  Asian nations including South Korea and Thailand have also
sold their currencies as have Brazil and Switzerland. Japan did
so on Sept. 15 after the yen surged to the highest level since
1995 against the dollar, imperiling the exports responsible for
more than half of Japan’s economic growth in the second quarter.  “The days of global cooperation to achieve internationally
shared goals are long past,”  Stephen Lewis , chief economist at
Monument Securities in London, said in a research note
yesterday. “There must be some danger to the global free
trading system.”  Neil Mellor , a currency strategist at Bank of New York
Mellon Corp., said policy makers are acting to weaken their
currencies as the Federal Reserve considers taking more steps to
boost the U.S. economy, resulting in a weaker dollar.  “It’s almost inevitable with the Fed’s policy that we’ll
have more central banks looking to intervene,” he said. “There
are huge forces against the dollar right now.”  ADB’s Call  “Emerging currencies in Asia need to be more flexible and
probably need to appreciate against the G-3,” Asian Development
Bank President  Haruhiko Kuroda  told reporters today in Kuala
Lumpur. The G-3 refers to the euro, dollar and yen. “Emerging
economies in Asia are really growing fast.”  U.S. lawmakers aim to consider this month legislation
allowing American companies to seek protection against imports
from nations pursuing misaligned exchange rates.  Former Canadian Prime Minister  Paul Martin  also said at the
joint press conference in Seoul today that the G-20, as a
steering committee for international economic cooperation, has
to deal with the currency issue involving the U.S. and China.
It’s not just a matter between the two countries, Martin, also a
former finance minister, said.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said this month
that the Obama administration will use every available tool to
urge China to let its currency rise more quickly. Premier  Wen Jiabao  countered last week that a 20 percent jump in the yuan
risks “major” social upheaval and job losses.  European Rebuke  Japan’s intervention this month drew a rebuke from
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs
meetings of euro-region finance ministers. Juncker said in an
interview in Brussels that the group was “insisting” Japanese
authorities “step back from unilateral interventions.”  Juncker’s comments came the same day the European Union’s
statistics office said the region’s exports fell in July for the
first time in three months.  The G-20 includes the world’s biggest developed and
emerging-market nations, from China, Brazil, Russia and India to
the U.S., Japan, Germany, France and the U.K. Its finance
ministers meet in Korea on Oct. 21-23 ahead of the summit of
leaders in Seoul on Nov. 11-12. The topic of currencies will
also likely be discussed when finance chiefs gather in
Washington next week for the annual meetings of the IMF and
World Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at   eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at   canstey@bloomberg.net  