-- Gauguin’s Dreamy Mysteries Seduce in Tate Show: Martin Gayford
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2010-09-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/gauguin-s-dreamy-mysteries-seduce-baffle-in-tate-exhibit-martin-gayford.html
London is hosting the second half
of one of the most remarkable double acts in the history of art.  The spring exhibition calendar was dominated by “The Real
Van Gogh” at the  Royal Academy , this autumn the most exciting
art show in town is “Gauguin: Maker of Myth” at  Tate Modern .
On display are some of  Gauguin ’s greatest achievements across
his career and in many diverse media. Together, they emphasize
what a different kind of artist Gauguin was from  Vincent .  The two are forever linked by the fraught two months they
spent together in 1888 at Arles, and in some ways -- the use of
heightened, non-naturalistic color, for example -- they were
working on parallel lines. There were, however, crucial
differences of temperament and approach, which was one reason
why they got on each other’s nerves.  Van Gogh, with a few notable exceptions -- “Starry
Night,” for one -- painted what he saw in front of his eyes.
Gauguin sometimes did that too but he was at his best when he
let his dreamy imagination flow.  That’s what this exhibition is about. It isn’t a
chronological survey of his work. The theme is about how Gauguin
told stories, invented private myths, and just made up stuff.
Seldom in his best work are we looking at a straightforward
transcription of reality.  When Gauguin painted “Christ in the Garden of Olives”
(1889), for example, he depicted himself as the main figure,
with the addition of red hair (like Van Gogh’s). What’s going on
here? Is it self-dramatization, irony, identity theft? Perhaps a
bit of all three. It’s characteristic of Gauguin’s art that
you’re never sure what’s going on. You can never pin him down.  Tahiti Temptation  What’s also typical is a bit of religious narrative,
puzzlingly recycled. Gauguin went to Polynesia but he didn’t
often paint everyday life in Tahiti. More frequently what you
see is Christian imagery, relocated, with the meanings blurred
and altered: Eve and the serpent, the earthly Paradise.  Figures drift from one image to another, they mutate and
turn up in differing media -- paint, print, pastel, wood
carvings, ceramics. That’s another difference between Van Gogh
and Gauguin. Using the classical distinction between a hedgehog
which knows one big thing and a fox that knows many, Van Gogh
was the former: He was able to paint (and draw) supremely well.  Gauguin wasn’t such a great painter. But like a fox (one of
his favorite symbols), he investigated all manner of visual
methods. His sculpture and works on paper, well represented in
this show, were more radically creative than his oil paintings.  Nude Demon  The little stoneware sculpture “Oviri” (1894) is one of
Gauguin’s most terrifying creations: a goggle-eyed female nude,
with a huge head and tiny legs, a snarling wolf at her feet and
two wolf cubs clutched in her hands.  He wanted this nightmarish creature placed on his grave
(where a bronze replica stands today). Nobody has ever quite
worked out what “Oviri” is -- goddess, demon, alter ego -- and
Gauguin never explained. Possibly, he didn’t really know.  A lot of his work is about the mystery of the imagination.
A wonderful early painting “Still Life With Profile of Laval”
(1886) shows a friend and fellow artist staring at a
conventional pile of apples, like a picture by Cezanne, except
that what has caught Laval’s attention is one of Gauguin’s own
ceramics.  This is a bizarre, bulbous hollow object, unlike anything
in 19th-century art. The effect is surreal. One of the reasons
Gauguin was such an important artist is that he points forward
to surrealism and abstraction. That little ceramic might almost
be an  Anish Kapoor .  The great thing about this show is that it stresses what
was truly interesting about Gauguin: not that he went to the
South Seas and lived in a hut but how he changed the course of
art.  “Gauguin: Maker of Myth,” which opens tomorrow at Tate
Modern, London, and runs through Jan. 16, 2011, is supported by
Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The exhibition will travel to the
National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C. (Feb. 27-June 5,
2011). Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk .  ( Martin Gayford , chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News, is the author of “The Yellow
House: Van Gogh, Gauguin, and Nine Turbulent Weeks in Arles.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 