-- German State Banks May See Merger Plan by Middle of 2011, Kampeter Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n ,   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P h i l l i p   E n c z
-- 2010-09-28T17:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/german-state-banks-may-see-merger-plan-by-middle-of-2011-kampeter-says.html
German officials may agree on how
to merge state-owned banks as soon as the middle of 2011, said
Deputy Finance Minister  Steffen Kampeter .  The federal Finance Ministry aims to forge a merger plan
between the end of 2010, a deadline sought by state prime
ministers, and the end of 2011, as favored by savings banks,
Kampeter said today in an interview in Berlin.  European Union pressure over state subsidies and capital
requirements set out in the Basel accord means there’s no option
other than mergers among the eight banks, known as Landesbanken,
Kampeter said. Talks hosted today by the Finance Ministry with
state leaders and bank chiefs need to “use the political
momentum” to push consolidation, he said. “The old arguments
against consolidation no longer count.”  Bayerische Landesbank  and  WestLB AG , two of the state-owned
lenders that needed government aid during the financial crisis,
said on Sept. 9 they were examining a possible merger that would
create the country’s third-biggest bank. That announcement
sparked government hopes that years of delay over mergers talks
in the German state banking industry are about to end.  “The federal government is open for any outcome of these
talks; we’re not aiming for a specific Landesbank structure,”
Kampeter said. At the same time, any solution “must make sense
from a business point of view. We’ll have fewer Landesbanks and
clearly smaller balance sheets.”  Schaeuble Pledge  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said on Sept. 15
that he will intensify his attempts to solve problems at the
Landesbanken. New capital rules approved by central bankers and
regulators in Basel have increased pressure on state banks to
try to bolster their businesses with mergers after taxpayer
bailouts.  Finance Ministry, state and bank officials focused on two
consolidation models, Kampeter told reporters separately after
the talks.  The creation of a central clearing house for Germany’s
savings banks comprising WestLB, Dekabank Deutsche Girozentrale
and Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen Girozentrale, known as Helaba,
was discussed alongside a merger of WestLB and BayernLB,
Kampeter said.  Resumed merger talks between the Munich-based and
Dusseldorf-based lenders were “not conclusive,” according to
Bavarian Finance Minister  Georg Fahrenschon , who also took part
in the discussions.  The group of officials intends to continue talks in
November, Kampeter said.  WestLB Bailouts  As part of its restructuring, WestLB has to sell itself by
the end of 2011 under conditions imposed by the European
Commission. The lender has received several bailouts, including
3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) in capital from Germany’s Soffin
bank-rescue fund. It set up a separate “bad bank” to rid
itself of a third of its assets, including toxic securities.  BayernLB, Germany’s second-biggest state-owned lender after
Stuttgart-based Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, needed 10 billion
euros in fresh capital and a 4.8 billion-euro risk shield for
its portfolio of asset-backed securities from the German state
of Bavaria, which now owns 95.8 percent of the bank. Chief
Executive Officer Gerd Haeusler has said he is seeking to
improve BayernLB’s profitability to attract new owners.  Earlier attempts by Germany’s Landesbanken to merge have
mostly failed because of wrangling between regional politicians.
Germany may need only two or three state-owned banks,  Heinrich Haasis , president of the DSGV association of savings banks, said
in February.  “What’s being underestimated is the determination of the
European Commission to actively pursue the consolidation of the
banking system within Europe,” Kampeter said. “I therefore
think the connection between a favorable business case and
compliance with European rules will be the key to the
solution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Parkin  in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Philipp Encz  in Frankfurt at 
 philippencz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  