-- Irish, Portugal Bonds Lead Peripheral Debt Lower on Bank Bailout Concern
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-09-28T13:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/german-bund-yield-reaches-four-week-low-as-irish-government-bonds-decline.html
Irish bonds plunged, leading losses
by European debt, on concern the region’s banks may need
additional funding.  The drop pushed the yield on Irish two-year  notes  to the
highest since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 2003 after
Standard & Poor’s said the cost to bail out Anglo Irish Bank
Corp. may exceed its previous estimate. The yield subsequently
pared its rise on speculation central banks bought the debt. The
difference in yield, or spread, between Portugal’s 10-year bonds
and German bunds widened to a record.  “Anglo Irish is still hanging over Irish debt and we’ve
got the Portuguese fiscal situation, which is just unclear,”
 Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank, said on Bloomberg Television’s
“Countdown” with  Maryam Nemazee  today. “Spreads are going to
be pushing out wider.”  The Irish 10-year bond yield rose 18 basis points to 6.82
percent as of 1:46 p.m. in London, after reaching 6.95 percent,
the highest since 1997. The 4.50 percent security maturing in
April 2020 fell 1.08, or 10.80 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,347)
face amount, to 84.07. The two-year note yield reached 4.76
percent, the most since at least 2003, according to Bloomberg
generic data.  Anglo Irish Rescue  Investors are shunning the debt of so-called peripheral
nations in favor of the safest fixed-income assets on concern
banks in the region may require further government aid, and on
speculation a slower economic recovery may dent efforts to rein
in deficits.  Ireland’s cost to rescue Anglo Irish may be more than the
35 billion euros S&P forecast, credit analyst  Trevor Cullinan 
said in an interview broadcast by Dublin’s RTE Radio today.
Credit-default swaps tied to Irish bonds jumped as much as 30.5
basis points to a record 519, according to data provider CMA.  The  yield premium  investors demand to hold Irish 10-year
bonds instead of benchmark 10-year German bonds reached a record
453 basis points, before narrowing to 445 basis points. The
 yield spread  between Portuguese securities and bunds widened to
as much as 441 basis points.  European central banks bought Irish  government debt  today,
according to three people with knowledge of the transactions.
The purchases focused on securities with maturities of as long
as five years, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the deals are private.  China has a “positive attitude” toward European debt and
supports the region’s recovery efforts, a Foreign Ministry
official said.  Chinese Support  “We are supporting Europe,” Vice Foreign Minister  Fu Ying 
told reporters in Beijing today. Asked if that meant China would
continue to buy European bonds, she said the nation will
“maintain a positive attitude.”  German notes and bonds fell amid speculation the European
Central Bank will progress with its exit from non-standard
policy measures, raising borrowing costs. ECB board member
 Juergen Stark  said the latest money and credit data suggest a
“turning point” may have been reached, while council member
 Erkki Liikanen  said there will be no double dip in the global
economy and the easing of growth will be “temporary.”  The ECB today allotted 166.4 billion euros in seven-day
funds at a fixed rate of 1 percent at its weekly refinancing
operation, before 225 billion euros of loans expire on Sept. 30.
The tender compares with 153.8 billion euros at an auction on
Sept. 21.  The German two-year note yield rose 2 basis points to 0.74
percent.  German Borrowing  Germany’s borrowing costs may rise “slightly” during 2011
as the economy improves,  Carl Heinz Daube , the head of Germany’s
Federal Finance Agency, said in an interview today.  “Bond yields are likely to normalize only gradually” in
the coming 12 months, S&P said today in an e-mailed statement.  Spanish 10-year bond yields rose 3 basis points to 4.18
percent. The nation auctioned 3 billion euros of bills today, at
a higher borrowing cost than a month ago, amid a looming
decision by Moody’s Investors Service on whether to lower the
country’s credit rating.  The Netherlands sold 1 billion euros of bonds due in 2015
and 2018 and Italy sold 1.4 billion euros of index-linked bonds.  German consumer confidence will climb to a three-year high
in October, according to GfK AG’s consumer sentiment index. A
separate report today showed the German inflation rate rose to
1.3 percent in September from 1 percent last month.  German government bonds are headed for a monthly loss of
1.1 percent, paring their return for the quarter to 2.1 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. The indexes show
U.S. Treasuries handed investors a loss of 0.2 percent for the
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  