-- Germany's Biggest Banks Boost Capital Ahead of Rules, Ernst & Young Says
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-09-28T11:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/germany-s-biggest-banks-boost-capital-ahead-of-rules-ernst-young-says.html
Germany’s 14 biggest banks,
including  Deutsche Bank AG  and  Commerzbank AG , boosted their
capital buffers in the first half before the introduction of
tighter regulatory requirements, according to Ernst & Young.  The banks’ Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, rose to 10.1 percent on average in the first six
months of 2010, from 9.3 percent in the year-earlier period, the
consulting firm said in an e-mailed statement today. Nine of the
lenders raised their capital, three were unchanged and state-
owned banks Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale and Landesbank
Hessen-Thueringen Girozentrale saw declines.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  this month
agreed to more than double capital requirements for banks after
the financial crisis forced state bailouts of firms including
Commerzbank,  WestLB AG  and Bayerische Landesbank.  Hypo Real
Estate Holding AG , the commercial-property lender rescued by the
government, was the only one among the 14 German banks to fail a
European Union-wide stress test in July.  Lenders are facing “lasting challenges” to improve their
business models amid rising requirements for capital, said Dirk
Mueller-Tronnier, head of banking at Ernst & Young. “The banks
still have a lot of work to do.”  The 14 lenders surveyed by the consulting firm boosted net
income to a total of 4.35 billion euros ($5.85 billion) in the
first half from 1.1 billion euros in the year-earlier period,
helped by a 51 percent decline in loan-loss provisions, the
study showed. Eight of the banks increased profit, led by a
rebound at Commerzbank, while the remaining ones saw a decline
in earnings. Munich-based Hypo Real Estate had the biggest loss.  Eleven of the banks employed 234,333 people in the first
half, down 4 percent, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  