-- MGM China Applies for Hong Kong Initial Share Sale
-- B y   F r a n k   L o n g i d
-- 2010-09-28T23:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/mgm-china-files-proposed-listing-application-in-hong-kong.html
MGM China Holdings Ltd., the Macau
venture between the biggest casino owner on the Las Vegas Strip
and billionaire  Stanley Ho’s  daughter, filed a preliminary
application for an initial public offering in Hong Kong.  The venture between  MGM Resorts International  and  Pansy Ho 
submitted a proposed listing application with the Hong Kong
Stock Exchange yesterday, according to a  filing  to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. No decision has been made
about when to hold the share sale or how much to raise,
according to the  statement .  MGM  Chief Executive Officer  Jim Murren  said in August he
plans to build “multiple properties” in Macau, where total
 casino revenue  has surged 63 percent this year through August.
The MGM venture has the smallest market share of the six casino
operators in the world’s biggest gambling hub, according to
estimates by CLSA Ltd. analyst  Aaron Fischer .  “We designed this joint venture to go public,” Murren
said today in an interview in Las Vegas. “It’s happening at a
time when the Macau market is obviously large and growing. We
like our how we’re positioned there.”  The listing plan is “modestly bullish” for MGM Resorts,
 David Katz , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New York, wrote in
a note to investors today.  “Management has indicated previously its intention to
pursue an IPO of 25 percent of its Macau assets, which we expect
to generate $300 million for MGM’s 50 percent share,” he wrote.  MGM Resorts  rose 1.7 percent to close at $11.44 in New York
trading today, boosting its gain this year to 25 percent.  Las
Vegas Sands Corp. , the world’s biggest casino operator by market
value, rose 1.4 percent to $35.59 and has more than doubled.  Sands China, SJM  If the share sale proceeds, MGM China will become the owner
of MGM Grand Paradise SA, which operates the MGM Macau casino
resort, according to the statement. Murren said in March he was
“confident” the share sale would be done in the third quarter.  Sands China Ltd. , the Macau unit of billionaire  Sheldon Adelson’s  company, gained 2 percent to HK$13.36 in Hong Kong
trading. Stanley Ho’s  SJM Holdings Ltd. , which has the biggest
market share in Macau according to CLSA’s Fischer,  slid  4
percent to HK$8.74.  MGM Grand Paradise said Aug. 2 it agreed to a $950 million
loan to refinance existing debt and provide added liquidity.  Casino revenue in Macau may grow as much as 40 percent this
month to about $2 billion from a year earlier,  Gary Pinge ,
regional head for consumer and gaming research at Macquarie
Group Ltd. in Hong Kong, wrote in a Sept. 14 note to clients.  Macau surpassed the Las Vegas Strip as the world’s biggest
gambling hub in 2006.  Macau casino revenue rose 40 percent to 15.8 billion
patacas ($2 billion) in August, according to the city’s Gaming
Inspection and Coordination Bureau. Casino sales for the year
through August totaled 117.9 billion patacas.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  