-- Jailed Billionaire Huang Loses Boardroom Battle for China's Gome
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o   a n d   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 2010-09-29T08:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/gome-shareholders-reject-billionaire-founder-s-proposal-to-remove-chairman.html
Jailed billionaire  Huang Guangyu ,
fighting for control of the electronics retailer he founded,
failed to win investor support for his proposals to oust its
chairman and install his sister and lawyer as directors.  While Huang, once China’s richest man, is the largest
investor in  Gome Electrical Appliances Holdings Ltd. , 52 percent
of the votes at a special general meeting yesterday were in
favor of keeping  Chen Xiao  as chairman. Still, Huang’s proposal
to cancel a mandate to sell new shares was approved.  Huang, who resigned from the  board  last year and is being
sued by Gome in Hong Kong for breach of trust, sought to cancel
the mandate to prevent the dilution of his stake in China’s
second-largest electronics retailer. He’s serving a 14-year
sentence after being convicted in a Beijing court in May of
bribery, insider trading and illegally buying foreign currency.  “There’s still some uncertainty because Huang still has a
lot of  shares , so the management may still be undermined,”
 Kenny Tang , executive director at Redford Asset Management Ltd.
in Hong Kong, said in a phone interview late yesterday.  Gome  fell 3.6 percent to HK$2.40 in Hong Kong trading today
extending its decline this year to 15 percent, compared with a
2.3 percent gain for the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  Huang, also known as Wong Kwong Yu, is the retailer’s
biggest shareholder with a 31.01 percent  stake  while his wife
Lisa Du Juan holds 1.46 percent, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Bain Capital LLC is the second-biggest shareholder
with 9.98 percent, and Chen owns 1.25 percent, the data show.  Bain’s Zhu  Ninety-five percent of votes were in favor of keeping Bain
representative  Jonathan Zhu Jia  as a non-executive director,
Gome said in a statement. Bain said Sept. 16 that it would
support Chen.  “It’s a clear vote in favor of minority shareholder rights
and good governance,”  Tim Payne  of Brunswick Group LLC, hired
to handle public relations for Gome, said in a phone interview.  Huang’s corporate lawyer  Zou Xiaochun  didn’t reply to calls
or mobile-phone text messages seeking comment. The billionaire
had proposed appointing his sister Huang Yanhong as well as Zou
as executive directors.  “Nothing has changed about our concerns regarding the
unrepresentative nature of the board and we reserve all our
rights to take appropriate action to protect our interest,”
Huang’s representatives said in an e-mailed statement.  Government Investigation  Huang was detained by Beijing police on Nov. 17, 2008, for
suspected manipulation of the shares of Shenzhen-listed  Beijing
Centergate Technologies (Holding) Co. , a property company he
controls, and  Sanlian Commercial  Co., according to a Shenzhen
stock exchange filing.  The government began investigating Huang in 2006 for back
taxes, according to a court judgment verified by his appeal
lawyer Lv Guoyu. The Ministry of Public Security’s Economic
Crimes Bureau also probed his companies for improperly obtained
loans, back taxes and gambling, according to the judgment.  Huang was convicted at a Beijing court in May. He lost his
appeal last month, the Shenzhen-based newspaper Securities Times
reported.  “He’s lucky that he’s able to fight for board control
under stable conditions,” said Li Delin, author of “The Truth
about Huang Guangyu,” a book about Huang’s case. “Eighty
percent of companies fall apart under these conditions.”  Past convictions for Chinese tycoons, including Shanghai
Land Holdings Ltd. Chairman Zhou Zhengyi in 2007 and flower
baron  Yang Bin  of Euro-Asia Agricultural (Holdings) Co. in 2003,
caused their companies to collapse.  Peasants’ Son  Born to peasants in the southern Chinese province of
Guangdong, Huang left school in 1985 at 16, bringing samples of
radios, batteries and other small electrical goods to Beijing,
collecting orders that he filled in Guangdong.  Two years later, he and older brother  Huang Junqin  bought a
clothes shop in Beijing named Gome that Huang turned into
China’s largest electronics retailer until it was surpassed by
 Suning Appliance Co.  in 2008.  Huang is a “genius businessman,” said stockholder Li
Qiang, who holds 24,000  shares  and voted in favor of the
billionaire’s proposals. “We can’t reject him because he is in
jail. We can’t forgive? A flawed hero is still a hero.”  Chen, who joined the retailer’s board after it bought his
China Paradise Electronics Retail Ltd. in 2006, has said Huang
left Gome “almost on the verge of bankruptcy” when he was
detained.  Huang’s Wealth  Huang disagreed with Chen about slowing the rate of store
openings and broke with him over negotiations for an investment
by Bain, according to Zou. In mid-July, Huang asked Chen to
resign. Chen refused and sued Huang on behalf of the company.  Huang had called for the special general meeting yesterday
to vote on his five proposals, four of which were defeated.  The shareholders reelected Bain’s two other representatives,
 Ian Andrew Reynolds  and  Wang Li Hong , as non-executive directors.
Huang’s proposal to oust  Sun Yi Ding  as an executive director
was rejected.  Huang topped the Hurun Report’s  China Rich List  in 2008
with an estimated net worth of $6.3 billion. Forbes last year
ranked him  130  in its list of richest Chinese with a net worth
of $725 million. The 32.47 percent he and his wife hold in Gome
is worth HK$13 billion ($1.68 billion) at today’s closing price.  “We’ve seen the likes of Enron and WorldCom where the
management went to prison and the company went bankrupt,” said
 Alexis Krajeski , associate director of governance and
sustainable investment at F&C Asset Management Plc, which holds
about 8.3 million Gome shares. “To management’s credit, they’ve
managed to keep this company afloat when it could’ve all gone
down the drain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net ;
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  