-- Government Should Explore Benefits of Strong Yen, Cabinet Office Aide Says
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   T a t s u o   I t o
-- 2010-09-28T09:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/government-should-explore-benefits-of-strong-yen-cabinet-office-aide-says.html
Japan should consider ways to
benefit from a strong currency because the yen is likely to stay
expensive against the dollar in the medium term, a government
official said.  “Japan should change its structure to raise living
standards using the strong yen,” by encouraging overseas
mergers and acquisitions and purchasing mining rights for
natural resources,  Kazuo Mizuno , deputy director-general of
economic assessment at the Cabinet Office, said in an interview
in Tokyo today.  Japanese authorities  intervened  in the currency market for
the first time in six years on Sept. 15 as the yen advanced to a
15-year high against the dollar, threatening the export-led
recovery. U.S. President Barack Obama has vowed to double
exports over five years and the Federal Reserve has signaled its
willingness to embark on more quantitative easing, a sign
Japan’s currency will remain strong, Mizuno said.  “Japan had to put out the fire” by selling the yen, he
said. U.S. policies indicate the currency trend won’t be
reversed soon so “Japan should expect the dollar to remain weak
in the mid-term,” he said.  ‘Benign Neglect’  Mizuno, 56, said the U.S. is likely to take a policy of
“benign neglect” by tolerating a weakening dollar to drive
exports. As for Japan, if it continues to intervene in the
currency market, “the effect will gradually fade,” he said.  The dollar traded at 84.21 yen at 6:07 p.m. in Tokyo. The
Japanese currency climbed as high as 82.88 to the dollar on Sept.
15, prompting intervention by Japan.  Should the U.S. currency stay around 84 to 85 yen to the
dollar, Japanese exporters’ profit ratios and sales volumes will
be hurt, which could lead to more companies moving their
factories abroad, said Mizuno, a former chief economist at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.  Japan’s exports increased 15.8 percent from a year earlier
in August, the slowest growth since December, the Finance
Ministry said in Tokyo yesterday. The Bank of Japan’s Tankan
survey due out tomorrow is expected to show that sentiment at
large manufacturers rose 6 points in September, the least since
March 2009, according to a survey of economists’ forecasts.  Export Volume  Mizuno said that Cabinet Office calculations show that
exports on a volume basis decreased 5.4 percent in August from
July, and exports to the U.S. declined 6.7 percent. The stronger
yen may have been a factor in that drop, he said.  Asia ought to create a common currency in the medium- to
long-term, importing cheaply from the U.S. if the dollar stays
weak while focusing on exports within the region, Mizuno said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  