-- Miami Passes $499 Million 2011 Budget With New Fees, Employee-Cost Cuts
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-09-28T16:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/miami-passes-499-million-budget-with-new-fees-3-reduction-in-spending.html
Miami  commissioners passed a $499
million general-fund budget for fiscal 2011 after closing a $115
million deficit with new fees and payroll and pension cuts.  The commission unanimously passed the plan today for the
year beginning Oct. 1. The budget spends 3 percent less than the
current one and includes about $18.6 million of additional fees,
such as fines anticipated from new cameras monitoring traffic
violations.  Miami, Florida’s second-largest city after Jacksonville,
imposed more than $75 million of wage, pension and health-care
cuts on police and firefighter unions on Aug. 31. The city,
whose pensions will consume almost one-fifth of its budget this
year, declared a state of “financial urgency” in April that
allowed it to rewrite contracts with four unions without their
agreement.  “We would have brought the services in the city of Miami
in all different areas way below the typical levels” if the
city had not modified the contracts,  Carlos Migoya , city
manager, told the commission after presenting his deficit
estimate.  The 2011 budget also includes a $10.4 million transfer from
the city’s redevelopment agency and saves $9.7 million in
police, fire and other equipment costs. Operating cuts across
departments will save $13 million more, said Mirtha Dziedzic,
budget director.  The police union has filed two lawsuits to stop the city
from rewriting its contract and is planning a third within two
days, said Armando Aguilar, president of the Miami Fraternal
Order of Police.  Union Lawsuits  The firefighters have two suits seeking to restore their
contract, said Robert Suarez, the union’s president. The general
and sanitation employees are also affected by the cuts.  “It’s a very risky move to base your budget on,” Suarez
said in an interview. “We’re asking them to reinstate and
reverse what they did.”  The city doesn’t have a plan to amend its budget if the
courts force it to restore back pay, Migoya said during a break
in the commission meeting.  “We believe we’re in the right,” he said.  Pension costs in fiscal 2011 will be reduced by about $43
million; salaries will fall $27 million, including more than
$1.5 million less for non-union employees, and contributions
toward health care will drop $7 million, according to the budget
document provided by the city.  Miami will spend almost 75 percent of its current $514
million budget on employee costs, including about 18 percent on
pension contributions, according its annual budget book.  Ratings Cut  Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service cited
pension costs when they cut Miami’s general-obligation bond
ratings earlier this year. Moody’s lowered Miami’s rating one
level on July 1 to A1, its fifth-highest rank. S&P reduced the
city’s rating on June 16 by two levels to A-, its seventh-
highest score.  The 2011 budget won’t require further dipping into reserve
funds, which will contain $16 million to $17 million when the
current fiscal year ends on Sept. 30, Dziedzic said. The city
expects to tap about $23 million of reserves in the current
year, she said.  Miami’s finances were approved four days after Miami-Dade
County, Florida’s largest municipal-bond issuer, passed a $7.4
billion budget that plugged a $444 million deficit with job
cuts, expense reductions and higher property taxes to compensate
for falling housing values.  The tax increase prompted  Norman Braman , a local car-
dealership owner, to announce a petition drive to recall Miami-
Dade Mayor  Carlos Alvarez .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 