-- Iberdrola to Start Building World's Largest Wind Park in 2011
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2010-09-28T13:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/iberdrola-to-start-building-world-s-largest-wind-park-in-2011.html
Iberdrola SA  will next year start
building the first 600 megawatts of capacity for the world’s
largest onshore wind-park in Romania as it seeks to produce
energy for local and regional markets, Adrian Goicea, manager of
renewable-energy unit Iberdrola Renovables Romania, said.  Construction of the planned park will start “sometime next
year and is expected to be finalized in 2016-2017,” Goicea told
reporters in Bucharest today. Iberdrola also plans to build a
separate 80-megawatt wind-farm, starting “this autumn or in the
spring” and delivered by mid-2011, Goicea said.  The Spanish utility said April 19 it acquired rights from
the Romanian government to build the largest onshore wind-energy
project with 1,500 megawatts of capacity. Iberdrola, which
became the world’s biggest wind-farm owner by using government
incentives and charging above-market electricity rates for clean
energy, operates in 10 markets including the U.S. and U.K.  The average cost to buy and install wind turbines is now
estimated at 1.7 million euros ($2.3 million) a megawatt, Goicea
said. Using those figures, Iberdrola’s Dobrogea project in
southeastern Romania on the Black Sea would cost more than 2.5
billion euros.  “Iberdrola established a special trading company in
Romania for the future sale of the produced energy from the
wind-farms,” Goicea said. “We are analyzing all the
opportunities from internal markets, exports, bilateral
agreements.”  Iberdrola is also part of a venture to build and operate
Romania’s planned two new nuclear reactors, together with
Italy’s  Enel SpA , Belgium’s Electrabel SA, Germany’s RWE AG and
steelmaker ArcelorMittal. Romania yesterday postponed until the
end of the year a decision on whether to keep its majority in
the venture or reduce its stake, according to Economy Ministry
officials. Czech utility  CEZ AS , which held 9.12 percent of the
venture, said Sept. 22 it plans to sell its stake to focus on
domestic investments.  “Iberdrola is still interested in the nuclear reactors
project,” Goicea said, without giving any details whether the
company is interested in buying an additional stake from CEZ.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andra Timu  in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  