-- Iceland's Haarde Indicted by Lawmakers Over Role in Crisis
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-09-29T11:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/iceland-s-lawmakers-to-vote-on-indictment-of-former-prime-minister-haarde.html
Iceland’s former Prime Minister
 Geir H. Haarde , who led the island from boom to bust two years
ago, became the first political leader to be indicted for
mismanagement of economic affairs during the financial crisis.  Parliament voted 33 to 30 to charge Haarde, 59, in
Reykjavik yesterday. Lawmakers decided not to charge former
Finance Minister  Arni M. Mathiesen , former Business Minister
 Bjorgvin G. Sigurdsson  and former Foreign Minister  Ingibjorg Solrun Gisladottir . The indictment is the first time a special
court set up in 1905 to hear such cases will be convened.  The 2008 banking failure forced the island, the world’s
fifth-richest per capita a year earlier, to turn to the
 International Monetary Fund  for help and sent the krona plunging
as much as 80 percent against the euro in the offshore market.
Lawmakers had been debating the issue of whether to move against
individual political leaders since a parliamentary committee on
Sept. 11 recommended the four be charged.  “This indictment is unprecedented,” said Gudni Th.
Johannesson, an historian with the  Reykjavik Academy . “Over the
past two years, banks all over the world have collapsed and
economies faltered. Obviously, heads of state have been indicted
before for war crimes, such as Slobodan Miloševi? and Charles
Taylor, but never for anything such as economic mismanagement.”  ‘Violations’  Haarde, who was prime minister from 2006 until the
beginning of 2009, must be held responsible for “violations
committed from February 2008 through the beginning of October of
the same year, by intent or gross neglect, mostly violations
against the laws of ministerial responsibility” as well as
breaches of the penal code, the committee of nine lawmakers
said. The same charges were brought against the other three.  Bjarni Benediktsson , chairman of Haarde’s Independence
Party and leader of the opposition bloc, said this month his
lawmakers would seek to block any charges. The Independents,
among five parties represented in the committee, recommended
none be indicted. The ruling Social Democrats wanted to indict
only Haarde, Gisladottir and Mathiesen, while the Left Green
Movement -- the junior coalition partner -- and the opposition
Progressive and Movement parties insisted all four be indicted.  ‘Peculiar’  “This is a very peculiar outcome -- parliament has decided
to hold one man accountable for the economic collapse,” said
Eirikur Bergmann, a professor in political science at Bifrost
University on the island. “This decision will mean that
Iceland’s political discourse will be plagued by disunity. More
than anything, this is a sad outcome.”  The government of Prime Minister  Johanna Sigurdardottir , in
office since January last year, is struggling to rebuild the
crippled economy as Icelanders come to terms with spiraling debt
burdens and incomes reduced by 20.3 percent last year.  “An indictment will tell politicians that their posts are
associated with great responsibility and that the law dictates
that this responsibility be interpreted in the strictest sense;
they shouldn’t just sit there and look pretty,” said Gunnar
Helgi Kristinsson, a professor in political science at the
 University of Iceland , in an interview before the vote. “This
could set a political precedent.”  The committee was appointed after a separate commission
investigating the causes of the 2008 crisis in April found that
the government, central bank and financial regulator had all
been “negligent” in their failure to address some of the
factors that exacerbated the collapse.  Oddsson’s Role  The commission had suggested previous central bank governor
 David Oddsson  as well as former head of the Financial
Supervisory Authority  Jonas Fr. Jonsson  acted negligently in the
years leading up to the meltdown, according to the April report.  Jonsson and Oddsson, who now runs the country’s second-
biggest newspaper Morgunbladid, escaped legal action when the
state prosecutor said in June a Special Investigation
Commission’s findings didn’t warrant a criminal probe.  Oddsson was head of government from 1991 until 2004, making
him Iceland’s longest-serving Prime Minister and the principal
architect of the privatization of the island’s banks. Haarde
served as Finance Minister from 1998 until 2005.  The commission alleged that Haarde, Sigurdsson and
Mathiesen didn’t exert enough pressure on the banks to shrink
their balance sheets after they amassed debts equivalent to 10
times Iceland’s economic output, a development the commission
said was key in fuelling the financial collapse.  Bank Failures  Kaupthing Bank hf,  Landsbanki Islands hf  and Glitnir Bank
hf all collapsed within weeks of each other in October 2008
after they were unable to secure enough short-term funds to
continue their operations. The state was forced to step in and
take control of the domestic assets to create new local units.
The banks’ failures left creditors wondering how to recoup a
total of $86 billion.  The committee had also recommended the former ministers be
charged for failing to ensure that Landsbanki created a U.K.
subsidiary when selling its Icesave accounts there -- a measure
that would have forced the British government to cover depositor
claims, it said.  Iceland’s government has yet to settle a dispute with the
U.K. and Dutch over how to settle $5.1 billion in depositor
funds stemming from the failure of Landsbanki.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar R. Valdimarsson  in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  