-- Michelin Shares Slide After $1.6 Billion Rights Offer
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-09-28T17:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/michelin-starts-1-6-billion-stock-sale-to-investors-at-45-euros-per-share.html
Michelin & Cie. , the world’s
second-largest tiremaker, announced a surprise 1.2 billion-euro
($1.6 billion) share sale to finance its global expansion. The
stock fell the  most  in 12 years in Paris trading.  The rights issue, in which investors may buy 2 new shares
at 45 euros each for every 11 held, will help Michelin fund
capital spending of 1.6 billion euros in 2011 and beyond,
compared with about 1 billion euros this year.  The French tiremaker, which ranks behind  Bridgestone Corp. 
of Japan in production, said it needs extra cash to fund plant
investments in India, Brazil and China as well as other
undisclosed plans. Michelin aims to add the equivalent of a new
factory every year to harness annual tire-market growth
averaging 9 percent in emerging markets, compared with less than
2 percent in western Europe, Managing Partner  Jean-Dominique Senard  said at news conference in Paris.  “This is a complete surprise, and the problem is that
investors are being asked to take things on faith,”  Mike Tyndall , a London-based automotive specialist with Nomura
Securities in London, said in a telephone interview. “Michelin
is testing their patience.”  Michelin  slumped  10 percent, or 6.66 euros, to 58.60 euros
at the 5:30 p.m. close in Paris, the biggest decline since
September 1998.  ‘Blank Check’  “We’re not asking for a blank check,” Senard said. “We
wouldn’t have dared to ask the market for capital if we hadn’t
already demonstrated our ability to deliver growth.”  Announcing a 71 percent decline in net income for 2009,
Chief Executive Officer  Michel Rollier  said in February that
tire markets were still showing “too much volatility” for the
company to reinstate the 10 percent operating-margin target
originally set for this year, then dropped in 2008.  The company said today it expects to achieve only 1.15
billion euros of the 1.5 billion euros in  savings  it had pledged
between 2007 and 2010. Even without the recession, the cost
savings would likely have come up short at 1.31 billion euros,
Rollier said in February.  “None of these misses are catastrophic, but you do wonder
whether they’ve delivered enough on horizon 2010 for people to
see the capital increase as a good idea,” Nomura’s Tyndall
said.  Michelin said today it is targeting 2 billion euros in
operating profit before one-time items by 2015, 9 percent return
on capital and positive cash flow every year -- while paying out
30 percent of its profit as  dividends . Sales volumes will
probably grow 25 percent by 2015 and 50 percent by 2020.  India, Brazil  The targeted expansion is based on internal growth typified
by the Indian, Brazilian and Chinese factory investments, rather
than acquisitions, Senard said. “Obviously we’re not going to
limit ourselves to these three projects, and there are other
plans in the drawer,” he added, declining to elaborate.  While takeover opportunities may arise from reorganization
among Asian tiremakers, “we have no such plans as of today,”
the executive said.  Subscription to the rights offer will open from Sept. 30 to
Oct. 13. The share issue is arranged by BNP Paribas, with
Citigroup Inc. and Credit Agricole as associate bookrunners,
according to the share-sale document.  The sale should improve Michelin’s  debt rating , the company
said. Moody’s Investors Service ranks the debt at Baa2, the
second-lowest investment grade. The debt has an equivalent
rating of BBB by Standard & Poor’s.  Michelin’s first-half  net income  reached 504 million euros,
compared with a 122 million-euro loss a year earlier, the
company reported July 30. German competitor Continental AG
returned to a second-quarter profit, while  Pirelli SpA  of Italy
raised its full-year sales target in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  