-- Tiger Woods Would Be Happy to Share First Win of Year With Ryder Cup Team
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-09-28T17:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/tiger-woods-would-be-happy-to-share-first-win-of-season-in-ryder-cup-team.html
Tiger Woods  is looking to the Ryder
Cup for his first victory of the season in a team format he
wasn’t very fond of early in his professional golfing career.  Woods went winless in 11 PGA Tour events this season and
struggled since admitting to several extramarital affairs that
led to his divorce last month. He was then named to the U.S.
Ryder Cup team as one of captain  Corey Pavin ’s picks after
failing to qualify automatically.  “It would be great to get a win,” Woods said today at a
press conference from Celtic Manor in Newport, Wales, where the
biennial match against Europe starts in three days. “I’m
looking forward to getting out there and contributing. Hopefully
I can get some points and hopefully we can get this thing
done.”  Woods admitted he wasn’t a fan of team golf early in his
career. He made his first Ryder Cup lineup as a 21-year-old in
1997, and said that contributed to the way he looked at the team
concept as a professional after a college career at Stanford
University.  “I was a pretty young guy and I was usually the youngest
player on the team for basically I think eight years,” he said.
“Most of the guys I played with my rookie year are now on the
senior tour. It was harder to relate because these guys were
older than I was and I just left the Stanford team.”  Now one of the more experienced members of the U.S. team,
Woods is enjoying his sixth Ryder Cup appearance, especially
since it was so uncertain that he’d be in Wales.  ‘Great to Be a Part’  Pavin also added  Zach Johnson ,  Stewart Cink  and Rickie
Fowler as captain’s picks.  Phil Mickelson ,  Hunter Mahan , Bubba
Watson, Jim Furyk, Steve Stricker, Dustin Johnson, Jeff Overton
and Matt Kuchar had already qualified for the U.S. squad after
the PGA Championship last month.  “It’s great to be part of it,” Woods said. “I tried to
make the team on points, it didn’t occur and was lucky enough to
get a pick. And here I am.”  Woods missed the U.S.’s 2008 victory in Louisville,
Kentucky, while recovering from knee surgery. The top player in
the Official World Golf ranking, he has a 9-13-2 record in 24
matches at the Ryder Cup, including a 3-1-1 mark in singles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 