-- Miliband Says Labour Would Be Unable to Scrap All Cameron's Spending Cuts
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-09-28T15:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/miliband-says-labour-would-be-unable-to-scrap-all-cameron-s-spending-cuts.html
Ed Miliband , the leader of the
U.K.’s opposition Labour Party, said that if he wins the next
election, due in 2015, he will not be able to reverse all the
spending cuts made by Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government.  Speaking as the coalition of Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats prepares to set out plans to reduce public spending
on Oct. 20, Miliband said he could not guarantee he would go
back on its decisions and pledged to be “serious” about
tackling the  record budget deficit .  “Come the next election there will be some things they
have done that I want to reverse but won’t be able to,”
Miliband told his party’s annual conference today in Manchester,
northwest England in his first keynote speech since being
elected leader three days ago. “I say this because the fiscal
credibility we earned before 1997 was hard won and we must win
it back by the time of the next general election.”  In a speech designed to distance himself from the mistakes
that led Labour to electoral defeat in May after 13 years in
power, Miliband challenged the economic orthodoxy that caused
the worst financial crisis in more than 60 years. He said the
Labour governments of former Prime Ministers  Gordon Brown  and
 Tony Blair  didn’t do enough to control mounting personal debt,
regulate banks and secure jobs.  Coalition Plan  Labour and the Conservatives clashed before May’s election
about how to tackle the deficit. While Labour Chancellor of the
Exchequer  Alistair Darling  promised to cut the budget deficit in
half from 11 percent of gross domestic product by April 2014,
the coalition now aims to narrow the shortfall by two thirds
over same four-year period by implementing the deepest spending
reductions since World War II.  “The starting point for a responsible plan is to halve the
deficit over four years, but growth is our priority and we must
remain vigilant against a downturn,” Miliband said, without
being specific about how quickly or deeply he would cut.  “He is trying to move on from Alistair Darling, but we are
going to need more detail,” said Labour lawmaker  Diane Abbott ,
one of four defeated leadership candidates. Cameron said in
August the cuts won’t be reversed once the economy recovers.  Miliband said high pay for bankers raises questions about
the nation’s values, pledging a more stringent bank levy to
allow higher spending on public services.  ‘Living Wage’  “What does it say about the values of our society, what
have we become, that a banker can earn in a day what the care
worker can earn in a year?” Miliband said, repeating a call for
a “living wage” for low-paid workers of 7 pounds ($11) an
hour.  “Responsibility in this country shouldn’t just be about
what you can get away with,” Miliband said. “And that applies
to every chief executive of every major company in this
country.”  “It is early days, but we detect a drift away from New
Labour’s efforts to talk up a pro-enterprise agenda,”  Graeme Leach , chief economist at the Institute of Directors, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Miliband said the Labour Party’s acceptance of low taxation
and light regulation of financial institutions had been
misguided and that Brown was wrong to argue that his policies
could end the economic cycle of “boom and bust.”  Treasury Adviser  The 40-year-old former energy secretary was an adviser in
the Treasury under Brown, who presided over the longest unbroken
economic expansion on record during his decade as chancellor.
Arguing that growth had been underpinned by the 1997 decision to
give the Bank of England control over interest rates and by his
own rules to constrain government borrowing, Brown said
repeatedly Labour had put an end to “boom and bust.”  Within months of becoming prime minister in 2007, though,
Brown was forced to nationalize banks as the financial crisis
swept the globe. As spending to shore up the banks and stimulate
the economy increased, Britain’s  budget deficit  swelled to the
highest among Group of 20 countries.  “I am of a different and new generation,” Miliband said,
aiming to draw a line under the Blair-Brown era. “There is a
big defining difference between us and David Cameron and that is
optimism.”  A poll published today by YouGov Plc for The Sun newspaper
put Labour ahead of the Conservatives for the first time since
2007. The survey put Cameron’s Tories at 39 percent, Labour at
40 percent and the junior coalition partner, the Liberal
Democrats, at 12 percent. The company interviewed 1,948 voters
Sept. 26 and yesterday; no margin of error was given.  ‘No Truck’  Miliband, who owed his leadership victory to the support of
union members, warned that organized labor should not seek to
disrupt the country over the spending cuts. “I have no truck
with irresponsible strikes,” he said.  “The responsibility for strikes lies not on the shoulders
of our hard-working members but the government,”  Mark Serwotka ,
general secretary of the Public and Commercial Services Union,
said in an e-mailed statement. “The real militants are in the
Cabinet as they are driving through irresponsible and
unnecessary spending cuts.”  Miliband paid tribute at the start of his speech to the
“graciousness” of his elder brother David, whom he beat to
lead the party. David has to yet to announce whether he will
join his brother’s team of opposition spokesmen.  “It was a really strong speech, a very good speech, the
speech of a conviction politician,” David told reporters in
Manchester. “I thought he delievered it very well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in Manchester, England at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Penny  in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 