-- India's Top Court Opens Way for Ruling on Ayodhya Religious Site Dispute
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   P . S .   P a t n a i k
-- 2010-09-28T11:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/india-may-decide-on-ayodhya-dispute-amid-heightened-hindu-muslim-tension.html
India’s Supreme Court opened the
way for a ruling this week on the ownership of a fiercely
disputed religious site, where the razing of a mosque by a Hindu
mob in 1992 sparked riots that killed 2,000 people.  Senior judges, including the country’s chief justice,
dismissed a plea that had sought to further delay the lower
court verdict on the grounds that it could trigger further
violence. The top court had on Sept. 23 postponed the judgment,
a day before it was to be delivered in northern  Uttar Pradesh 
state, and asked all parties to seek reconciliation.  “The final roadblock has been cleared and we expect the
judgment will be delivered at the earliest,”  Ravi Shankar Prasad , a spokesman for the  Bharatiya Janata Party  and a Supreme
Court lawyer said. The verdict will be given on Sept. 30 at 3:30
p.m. local time, CNN-IBN television reported.  At stake is control over land in the northern town of
Ayodhya, where the 16th-century Babri Masjid was demolished 18
years ago and where Hindus believe their god Ram was born.
Federal and local governments last week deployed more police in
towns with a history of Hindu-Muslim violence, banned rallies
and bulk mobile-phone messaging, fearing new clashes.  Attorney General G.E. Vahanvati said today that the
government wanted uncertainty over the lower court decision to
end. “We cannot keep the security forces in suspended animation
for long,” he said.  BJP Rise  Muslims claim the land based on the existence of the mosque
since 1528. Hindu groups argue the Babri Masjid was built on the
site of an earlier temple .  Clashes between Muslims and Hindus ravaged India after a
campaign led by the Hindu-nationalist BJP for a temple to be
built at the spot ended with the destruction of the mosque.  The BJP used the temple issue to gain support among
majority Hindus, surging from having two members of parliament
in 1984 to winning 120 at elections in 1991 and leading a
coalition government seven years later.  Hindus account for 80.5 percent of the country’s 1.2
billion population while Muslims make up 13.4 percent.  An independent Indian commission in November blamed top BJP
leaders for igniting sectarian clashes in 1992. The commission
named former BJP Prime Minister  Atal Bihari Vajpayee ,  Lal Krishna Advani  and other party chiefs among 68 people who played
key roles in sparking the crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
PS Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  