-- State Bank, India In Talks to Set Up $11 Billion Fund for Infrastructure
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2010-09-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/india-is-holding-talks-with-state-bank-for-11-billion-infrastructure-fund.html
India is in talks with the nation’s
largest bank over an $11 billion fund as Asia’s third-biggest
economy seeks to raise finances to build roads, ports and power
plants, an aide to the prime minister said.  The government is holding discussions with the State Bank
of India and “a couple of other players” for a debt fund that
would buy bonds sold by infrastructure companies,  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , 66, said in an interview in Kuala Lumpur yesterday.
The State Bank may act as an anchor investor along with one or
two local or foreign funds, he said.  “We should be able to have an infrastructure debt fund
announced somewhere in the beginning of next year,” said
Ahluwalia, who is the deputy chairman of the nation’s  Planning
Commission . “It will require certain regulatory relaxations and
they are working out what those would be.”  The effort is part of India’s plan to propel economic
growth to a sustained average annual rate of 10 percent, from
the 8.5 percent pace forecast for this year. Ranked below Ivory
Coast for the quality of its public facilities, the nation will
need an estimated $1 trillion in infrastructure in the five
years to March 2017 to reach such an expansion rate.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  last week allowed overseas
investors to buy $5 billion more bonds with a five-year maturity
sold by infrastructure companies, boosting permitted foreign
investment in corporate debentures to $20 billion.  Behind China  The world’s second-most populous nation needs to “do
more” on improving its infrastructure, Ahluwalia said. The
government last year spent 6.5 percent of its  gross domestic
product  on infrastructure, compared with about 11 percent by
China, according to an Ernst & Young India report.  The South Asian country is ranked 89 out of 133 nations for
its infrastructure, according to the World Economic Forum’s
Global Competitiveness Index.  India produces about 10 percent less electricity than it
needs. Roads, which account for 65 percent of India’s cargo, are
plagued by single lanes and irregular surfaces, slowing trucks
to an average speed of about 20 kilometers per hour, according
to a 2009 study by Transport Corp. of India and the  Indian
Institute of Management  in Kolkata.  The average time taken by ships to unload and load at
Indian ports is almost 96 hours, about 10 times longer than in
Hong Kong, the government said in its latest annual economic
survey.  Inflation Forecast  Turning to inflation, the Oxford University-educated
Ahluwalia said it’s likely to slow in coming months. The
benchmark wholesale-price  inflation  rate is likely to be about 6
percent by end-December and a further increase in interest rates
will depend on the central bank’s assessment of inflation,  “Inflation was a concern, remains a concern but actually
is coming down,” he said. “It’s up to the RBI to determine
whether the pace at which inflation is coming down meets with
what they think the inflation objective should be or not.”  Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on Sept. 16
raised the interest rates for the fifth time since mid-March,
boosting the  repurchase rate  to 6 percent from 5.75 percent, and
the reverse repurchase rate by a half point to 5 percent.  Inflation moderated to 8.51 percent in August from 9.8
percent the previous month, a government report showed Sept. 14.  Ahluwalia said economic growth will pick up to 9 percent in
2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ranjeetha Pakiam  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  