-- India to Allow Cotton Shipments Statrting Nov. 1 Boosting Local Supplies
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2010-09-28T15:38:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/india-to-allow-cotton-shipments-statrting-nov-1-boosting-local-supplies.html
India, the second-biggest grower of
cotton, will allow shipments starting Nov. 1, said Rita Menon,
secretary in the ministry of textiles.  Suppliers can register shipments starting Oct. 1 to export
as much as 5.5 million bales of 170 kilograms each, Menon told
reporters after a meeting of a group of ministers today in New
Delhi, reiterating earlier government decisions. India said Sept.
14 it would start registering contracts from Oct. 1.  A delay in exports from the Asian country, also the second-
biggest shipper, may widen a supply deficit that’s made cotton
the best performer this year on the  Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index 
of 19 commodities. Global output will increase to 116.97 million
bales, short of demand of 119.16 million, Macquarie Group Ltd.
forecast last week. A U.S. bale weighs 480 pounds or 218
kilograms.  “The delay will improve availability of cotton in the
domestic market” helping textile makers, who expected shipments
to start in October, said  Shishir Jaipuria , chairman of
Confederation of Indian Textile Industry.  Indian textile mills have demanded a halt in registration
of contracts in the quarter ending Dec. 31 and sought a duty of
10,000 rupees ($221) a metric ton to deter exporters.  The government will consider imposing a duty on exports in
the middle of October, Menon said.  Futures Surge  December-delivery futures surged as much as 2.4 percent to
$1.064 per pound on the ICE Futures U.S. and traded at $1.039 at
11:24 a.m. New York time.  Yesterday, the most-active contract rose the exchange limit
as the China Cotton Association said demand in the top producer
and user of the fiber exceeded output by 3.6 million tons in the
year ended August and the U.S., the largest exporter, said local
crop conditions deteriorated.  The harvest in India may be less than forecast because of
an extended monsoon season, according to the Confederation of
Indian Textile Industry. Production in the year from Oct. 1 may
be less than the 32.55 million bales estimated by the state-run
Cotton Advisory Board last month, Confederation Vice Chairman
Prem Malik said in an interview on Sept. 16. Output this year is
estimated at 29.5 million bales, according to the board.  The monsoon rains, the main source of irrigation for the
nation’s 235 million farmers, were 4 percent above the 50-year
average between June 1 and Sept. 22, according to the weather
bureau.  India will review the 5.5 million bales limit on exports in
the middle of December, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  told
reporters in New Delhi today. The nation can export 7.5-8
million bales in the year starting Oct. 1, he said.  “Cotton crop in India is extremely good this year” as are
international prices, Pawar said. “This is a golden opportunity
for cotton growers to get a better price.”  The government today extended duty free imports of edible
oils and rice, and said it would continue the sale of rice and
wheat in the open market to keep inflation in check.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pratik Parija  in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
 Prabhudatta Mishra  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  