-- Inflation Quickens in Five States as Prices for Oil, Clothing, Shoes Rise
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-09-28T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/inflation-quickens-in-two-german-states-on-higher-prices-for-oil-clothing.html
Inflation  in five German states
accelerated in September as prices for clothing, shoes and
heating oil rose.  The inflation rates in Baden-Wuerttemberg, Bavaria, North
Rhine-Westphalia, Hesse and Saxony increased from August while
Brandenburg’s rate held steady, the states’ statistics offices
said in e-mailed statements today. Economists predict  German
inflation , calculated using a harmonized European method, will
accelerate to 1.3 percent from 1 percent, according to the
median of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . That report,
based on data from the six states, is due later today.  While Germany’s economy expanded at the  fastest pace  in two
decades in the second quarter and companies are stepping up
production to fill incoming orders, the Bundesbank expects price
developments to remain “moderate.” The euro has risen 5
percent against the dollar this month, offsetting price pressure
from a 3.6 percent increase in crude oil prices.  “There’s absolutely no inflation pressure of any kind,”
said  Klaus Baader , co-chief euro-region economist at Societe
Generale in London. “If anything, we will undershoot the
European Central Bank’s inflation threshold.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday that the
rate of inflation in the 16-nation euro region “could increase
slightly in the short term but should remain moderate over the
policy-relevant horizon.” The Frankfurt-based central bank aims
at keeping annual consumer-price increases slightly below 2
percent.  Clothing and Shoes  Euro-area inflation may accelerate to 1.8 percent this
month from 1.6 percent in August, another survey of economists
shows. That report is due from the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg on Sept. 30.  In Saxony, clothing and shoes cost 7.3 percent more in the
month and 2.5 percent in the year. Heating oil was 23.2 percent
more expensive than 12 months earlier. Food prices increased 0.2
percent in September and 2.9 percent from a year ago. Prices for
package tours were down 9.1 percent in the month and 1.5 percent
in the year.  Consumer spending, which contributed about 60 percent to
Germany’s gross domestic product last year, increased 0.6
percent in the second quarter as  confidence  in the economic
recovery increased and  unemployment  declined. The country’s HDE
retail association last week raised this year’s sales growth
forecast to 1.5 percent from zero.  “Private consumption will continue to pick up against the
backdrop of a favorable labor-market situation and the quite
optimistic mood of consumers,” the Bundesbank said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  