-- Inflation in Germany Accelerates as Prices for Heating Oil, Food Increase
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-09-28T13:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/inflation-in-germany-accelerates-on-higher-prices-for-heating-oil-food.html
German  inflation  accelerated in
September after prices for heating oil and food rose.  The inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized European
method, increased to 1.3 percent from 1 percent in August, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said in a statement.
That’s in line with the median estimate of 20 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Prices fell 0.2 percent in the month.  While Germany’s economy expanded at the  fastest pace  in two
decades in the second quarter and companies are stepping up
production to fill incoming orders, the Bundesbank expects price
developments to remain “moderate.” The euro has risen 5
percent against the dollar this month, offsetting price pressure
from a 3.6 percent increase in crude oil prices.  “The risk of too-low inflation is still higher than the
danger of too-high inflation,” said  Karsten Junius , a senior
economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “The price trends are
probably rather welcome to the European Central Bank.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB aims to keep inflation in the 16-
nation euro region just below 2 percent. Euro-area inflation may
accelerate to 1.8 percent this month from 1.6 percent in August,
another survey of economists shows. That report is due from the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg on Sept. 30.  Heating Oil, Food  Germany’s statistics office said inflation pressure came
mainly from “strong price increases in light heating oil and
fuels as well as fruit and vegetables.”  The non-harmonized inflation rate rose to 1.3 percent in
September from 1 percent in August. On the month, non-harmonized
prices fell 0.1 percent, the report showed.  Earlier, the state of Saxony said clothing and shoes cost
7.3 percent more in the month and 2.5 percent in the year.
Heating oil was 23.2 percent more expensive than 12 months
earlier. Food prices increased 0.2 percent in September and 2.9
percent from a year ago. Prices for package tours were down 9.1
percent in the month and 1.5 percent in the year.  Consumer spending, which contributed about 60 percent to
Germany’s gross domestic product last year, increased 0.6
percent in the second quarter as  confidence  in the economic
recovery increased and  unemployment  declined. The country’s HDE
retail association last week raised this year’s sales growth
forecast to 1.5 percent from zero.  The economy, Europe’s largest, will expand about 3 percent
this year, according to the Bundesbank.  “For the time being, the German economy will be growing in
a low-inflation environment,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior
economist at ING Group in Brussels. “A fully fledged deflation
scenario has been prevented but inflationary pressures are also
hard to find.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  