-- Iran Self-Sufficient in Gasoline Output, Begins Exports, Oil Ministry Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-09-28T13:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/iran-starts-exporting-gasoline-in-self-sufficiency-drive-ministry-says.html
Iran, which aims to counter U.S.
sanctions by halting gasoline imports and supply its own needs,
has started exporting the fuel, the Oil Ministry said.  “Iran has exported its first load of gasoline,”  Ali Asghar Arshi , the National Iranian Oil Co.’s director of
international affairs, said on the Oil Ministry’s news website,
 Shana . He didn’t give the shipment’s date or destination.  “Thanks to the production of gasoline in some of its
petrochemical complexes, Iran has become self-sufficient and
will soon export one more gasoline load,” Arshi said.  Iran, the second-largest oil producer in the Middle East
after Saudi Arabia, previously relied on imports for as much as
40 percent of its gasoline as it lacked the refining capacity to
meet its consumption.  The Persian Gulf state is under a fourth round of United
Nations sanctions because it refuses to curtail its nuclear
program, which the U.S. and European Union say is a shield for
weapons development. The U.S. tightened sanctions on July 1 to
also punish foreign suppliers of gasoline to Iran.  Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said on Sept. 23 that
his country would soon export two cargoes of gasoline. Iran said
in June that it could begin exporting gasoline as early as next
year after upgrading its refineries.  Self-Sufficiency  Daily output of the motor fuel increased to 66 million
liters, or 415,000 barrels, from 44 million liters, after the
start of a self-sufficiency plan, Oil Minister  Masoud Mir-Kazemi 
said on Sept. 7. Iran won’t have to rely on imports anymore, he
said at the time.  Iran is currently producing gasoline from five of its
petrochemical units in response to U.S. sanctions, Ali-Mohammad
Bosaghzadeh, director for production control at the National
Petrochemical Co., said this week.  “Iran has substantial experience and extensive ties in the
international market and has successfully overcome harder
sanctions than those related to fuel,” Arshi said. “The
passing of gasoline sanctions is not an issue that can harm Iran
or that can’t be solved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  