-- Ireland Swaps Surge to Record on Anglo Irish Bailout Cost Wager
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-09-28T15:34:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/ireland-leads-surge-in-sovereign-default-swaps-on-bank-system-bailout-cost.html
The cost of insuring against
default on Ireland’s government debt surged to a record as
Standard & Poor’s said the price of bailing out nationalized
lender Anglo Irish Bank Corp. could exceed $47 billion.  Credit-default swaps tied to Irish bonds jumped as much as
33 basis points to 521.5 after more than doubling in the past
two months, and were at 493 basis points as of 4 p.m. in London,
according to data provider CMA. Contracts on Anglo Irish rose 4
basis points from yesterday’s record high closing price to 940,
implying a 56 percent probability of default within five years.  European countries are struggling to repair their finances
and prevent a collapse of their banking systems after a
sovereign debt crisis that has roiled markets. Investors are
speculating the ballooning cost of rescuing Dublin-based Anglo
Irish will force the nation’s government to choose between fully
repaying senior bondholders and tackling the region’s biggest
budget deficit.  “It’s a key test for the market,” said  Greg Venizelos , a
credit strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “The cost of the
Anglo Irish bailout is too high for Ireland to afford without
jeopardizing its fiscal position.”  The speculation about Ireland weighed on sentiment in the
region, driving up credit-default swaps on other governments and
banks. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of default
swaps on 15 governments rose 5 basis points to 165, according to
CMA.  Sovereign Swaps  Credit-default swaps on Portugal increased 19 basis points
to 449.5, approaching the record-high closing price of 461,
while Greece climbed 2.5 basis points to 818.5 and Italy was up
5.5 basis points at 202, CMA prices show. Spain added 8 basis
points to 235.5. Irish two-year government notes slumped,
sending yields to the highest level since Bloomberg began
collating the data in 2003.  The yield on Ireland’s two-year government note rose as
much as 52 basis points to 4.76 percent, Bloomberg generic data
show.  Credit-default swaps on financial-company debt rose, with
the Markit iTraxx Financial Index of 25 banks and insurers
rising 3 basis points to 149 and an index of their riskier
subordinated debt climbing 1 basis point to 218, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Gauges of corporate risk also jumped. The Markit iTraxx
Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50 mostly junk-rated
European companies climbed 6.5 basis points to 523.4, according
to Markit Group Ltd.  Bailout Bill  Anglo Irish’s bailout may cost Ireland’s government more
than 35 billion euros ($47 billion), Standard & Poor’s credit
analyst  Trevor Cullinan  said on Dublin’s RTE Radio today,
exceeding the rating company’s previous estimate.  Ireland’s government is due to announce the final bill this
week. The bank has already cost the country 22.9 billion euros.
Moody’s Investors Service lowered its rating yesterday on the
senior unguaranteed securities of the Dublin-based lender.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements, and an increase
signals a deterioration in investor perceptions of credit
quality.  A basis point on a contract protecting 10 million euros of
debt for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  