-- Irish Foreign Minister `Absolutely' Rules Out Activating Euro Bailout Fund
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-09-28T17:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/irish-foreign-minister-absolutely-rules-out-activating-euro-bailout-fund.html
Irish Foreign Minister  Micheal Martin  “absolutely” ruled out activating the European bailout
package for Ireland, saying markets will calm after the
government clarifies bank-bailout costs and the budget outlook.  The government in Dublin will provide details of the
bailout costs for  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  by the end of the week
and soothe bond investors after Standard & Poor’s said more than
35 billion euros ($47 billion) may be needed, Martin said. The
budget is financed through the middle of next year and Ireland
won’t need money from the euro fund, he said.  “By and large we are very confident we’ll come out of
this,” Martin said in an interview today in New York. “Clearly
it’s challenging and so on, but there’s no necessity for the
triggering of such a mechanism.”  Buyers of Irish debt reacted to concern about the bank
bailout, pushing the extra yield investors demand to hold the
country’s 10-year debt over German bunds to a record today.
Martin said he’s confident that calm will return when the cost
for recapitalizing the state-owned lender is released this week
and the government publishes its fiscal outlook in mid-October.  He also dismissed speculation about a default among holders
of Anglo Irish’s senior debt, which was cut yesterday to the
lowest investment grade rating by Moody’s Investors Service.  “The minister of finance has made it clear that he’s not
into default on senior bondholders, not into that at all,”
Martin said.  The premium investors charge to hold Irish 10-year debt
over the German equivalent, Europe’s benchmark, rose to 448
basis points today from 430 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in New York at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 