-- Israeli Navy Intercepts Gaza-Bound Jewish Aid Ship
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2010-09-28T12:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/israeli-navy-intercepts-gaza-bound-jewish-aid-ship-boards-boat-peacefully.html
Israel intercepted a boat carrying
Jewish activists and aid to the Gaza Strip, halting the vessel
without violence four months after naval commandos killed nine
Turks on an aid ship trying to breach its blockade of Gaza.  The U.K.-flagged ship Irene was stopped inside the 20-mile
area of the Mediterranean Sea off Hamas-controlled Gaza that
Israel has declared off-limits to international maritime
traffic, Israeli army spokesman Barak Raz said. The boat is
being taken to Israel’s Ashdod port, he said.  “Prior to boarding the yacht, the Israeli naval ships
transmitted two warnings,” Raz said by telephone from
Jerusalem. “These warnings were ignored by the captain of the
yacht and its passengers, who sailed further into the area under
naval blockade.”  An Israeli commando operation on May 31, which violently
stopped the Turkish aid ship and provoked international
condemnation, is under investigation by Israel, Turkey and the
United Nations. The pro-Palestinian Freedom Flotilla Coalition,
which was behind the May ships, said in Athens yesterday that it
is planning a second attempt to break the blockade. Five other
ships that were part of that flotilla were stopped without
violence.  Since the incident with the Turkish ship, two other boats
have tried to breach the blockade, include an Irish ship, the
MV Rachel Corrie, that was intercepted without violence on June
5. A Libyan aid ship was persuaded to dock in the Egyptian port
of El Arish July 14 after being promised its cargo of 2,000 tons
of food and medicine would be transported to Gaza.  No Violence  Raz and the Irene’s media coordinator in London, Yosh
Kosminsky, said today no violence took place from either side
during the takeover.  Israeli officials said yesterday they wouldn’t allow the
aid boat, which is carrying toys, textbooks and prosthetic
limbs, to break Israel’s maritime blockade against Gaza.  The boat was sponsored by the London-based  Jews for Justice
for Palestinians  and other Jewish groups in Germany, Australia
and the U.S. Its aim was to “challenge the continuing blockade
of Gaza” and assert that “Israel’s policies are not supported
by all Jews,” according to its website.  The UN Human Rights Council said in a Sept. 22  report 
Israel’s assault on the Turkish ship Mavi Marmara constituted
“grave violations of human rights law and international
humanitarian law.”  ‘One-sided’  Israel’s Foreign Ministry, which refused to cooperate with
the inquiry, called the report “biased and one-sided.”  Israel says that on May 31 its soldiers were attacked with
knives and clubs and seven were wounded, including by gunfire
after people aboard the Mavi Marmara managed to grab Israeli
firearms. Activists have said they threw the weapons into the
sea and that the Israelis instigated the violence.  Israel says the blockade is legal because it is in “a
state of armed conflict” with Hamas, which is considered a
terrorist organization by the U.S., European Union and Israel.
Hamas seized control of Gaza in 2007, ending a partnership
government with Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s
Fatah party.  Israel started a military operation in the Gaza Strip in
December 2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of
rockets into its territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13
Israelis were killed in the conflict. Since the end of the
three-week operation, more than 400 rockets have been fired from
Gaza into Israel, killing one foreign worker last March, the
Israeli army said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 