-- U.S. Asks Israel to Weigh 60-Day Settlement-Ban Extension
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-09-29T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/israel-asked-by-u-s-to-consider-60-day-extension-of-settlement-moratorium.html
The Obama administration is asking
Israel’s government to consider extending a freeze on settlement
building in exchange for security assurances, in an effort to
keep Middle East peace talks afloat.  The U.S. is proposing a 60-day extension of a suspension on
Israeli construction in areas of the West Bank claimed by the
Palestinians, one of a few options on the table, according to a
person briefed by American officials on the matter. The initial
10-month building ban lapsed Sept. 26, raising concerns the
Palestinians would fulfill a threat to drop out of the talks.  U.S. envoy  George Mitchell  arrived in Israel yesterday as
West Bank settlers began a second day of construction since the
freeze expired.  The administration wants to strike a deal to overcome the
impasse before an Oct. 4 meeting of the  Arab League  in Cairo,
said the person, who asked not to be identified. The Arab group
will discuss the issue along with the Palestine Liberation
Organization and Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s
political party, Fatah.  “There is a multilevel conversation going on,” State
Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  told reporters yesterday
in Washington. “The Israelis, the Palestinians, others in the
region, the United States, everyone is advancing ideas and
formulas that we hope will convince the parties to stay in the
negotiation.”  Mark Regev , a spokesman for Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , said yesterday he couldn’t go into the content of the
discussions.  Abbas, Netanyahu  Abbas has said he will wait on deciding whether to continue
the peace talks, begun this month in Washington, until after the
Arab League meeting. Netanyahu, faced with domestic opposition
to a further West Bank construction halt, has declined to extend
the freeze amid direct appeals from Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton . Netanyahu urged Jewish settlers to show restraint as
the ban was lifted.  The Palestinians are waiting to see what emerges from U.S.
diplomatic efforts. “Let’s see what is concrete and on the
table,”  Riyad Mansour , the Palestinian Authority envoy to the
United Nations, said in an interview yesterday. “I can tell you
that our president is saying that we are patient with giving the
Americans a few more days to hopefully succeed in dealing with
this issue by extending the moratorium.”  The person briefed on the American proposal couldn’t say
what specific assurances the Obama administration has described
to Israel as an inducement to lengthen the ban.  Former Negotiator  Aaron David Miller , a former Middle East negotiator for
President  Bill Clinton , said the security offer could include a
guarantee that Israel will be able to deploy troops between
Jordan and a future Palestinian state.  “This is a very dangerous and difficult business to pay
this kind of price just to extend a settlement freeze,” said
Miller, who wasn’t familiar with the 60-day extension idea. “It
may come back to haunt you.”  Differences within the Israeli government over how to
approach the talks surfaced yesterday during a speech by Foreign
Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  at the United Nations. Lieberman
called for an “intermediate agreement” with the Palestinians
because he said it will take “a few decades” to establish the
trust required for a final status agreement.  Lieberman at UN  Lieberman, who heads Yisrael Beitenu, the second-largest
party in Netanyahu’s ruling coalition, suggested “an exchange
of populated territory,” meaning establishment of borders
between Israeli and Palestinian states that reflect
“demographic realities.”  The minister’s comments, made at a General Assembly
meeting, are at odds with Netanyahu, who has agreed to President
 Barack Obama ’s goal of completing a peace accord in a year.  Netanyahu’s office issued a statement after Lieberman’s
appearance saying “the foreign minister’s speech was not
coordinated with the prime minister.”  Issues in the talks “will be discussed and decided only
around the negotiating table and nowhere else,” the office
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  