-- Italy's Nuclear Revival Requires Political Guarantee, Enel CEO Conti Says
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2010-09-28T09:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/italy-s-nuclear-power-revival-requires-guarantee-by-politicians-enel-says.html
Politicians must guarantee future
governments won’t reverse a decision to build atomic reactors to
ensure Italy’s nuclear revival wins financial backing, the chief
executive officer of the country’s largest utility said.  Enel SpA will use loans backed by long-term power contracts
from industrial users to pay for four new French-designed atomic
plants expected to cost 18 billion euros ($24 billion),  Fulvio Conti  said in an interview in Rome. Italy’s parliament voted
last year to reverse a 1987 referendum that had caused the
shutdown and dismantling of the country’s plants.  The regulatory framework needs to make sure “that once
this program is started it cannot be stopped by a change of
government, otherwise it will be a totally futile effort,”
Conti said. “I’m confident we can achieve our goals.”  Enel and partner  Electricite de France SA  plan to build
four so-called EPR plants by 2020. Delays in setting up a
national atomic energy agency to regulate the program and
opposition from regional authorities have raised concerns the
project isn’t feasible.  “If Italy wavers or looks less committed the cost of
credit for the project will rise and all your cost calculations
will be off,” said Carlo Stagnaro head of energy research for
think tank Istituto  Bruno Leoni . “Project financing, once you
have a deal, reduces some of the risk, with the producer having
a guaranteed buyer and the buyer a guaranteed energy price.”  The plan, which would allow  Enel  to secure loans backed by
long-term contracts with industrial power customers, is being
used to build a nuclear plant in Olkiluoto, Finland.  Start Construction  “There are discussions for enacting the long-term
contracts available for big end-users and single buyers,” Conti
said. “I’m confident that the experience acquired will allow us
to start construction in 2014 and achieve completion of the
first unit by 2020.”  Conti’s plan may allow Enel to keep the cost of new
nuclear plants off its balance sheet. The company is cutting
costs and selling assets to help lower debt. It’s also
undertaking an initial public offering of its Enel Green Power
unit to achieve its goal of reducing debt to 45 billion euros by
2010, Conti said.  Conti said the Italian plants will cost 4.5 billion euros
each and produce 1,600 megawatts. That’s more than France’s
older generation plants which produce between 900 and 1,400
megawatts. Italy gets the majority of its power from burning
imported coal and natural gas.  Nuclear Power  Enel estimates that energy generation by a nuclear power
plant has the same cost as energy produced by a modern coal
plant and is 20 percent cheaper than power produced from a
combined cycle gas turbine. The nuclear plant’s advantage,
according to Conti, is that it has no carbon dioxide emissions
and is not sensitive to fluctuating commodity prices.  “My concern with the reintroduction of nuclear is that
it’s not as economically convenient as it seems,” said  Fabrizio Spagna , chief executive officer of Axia Financial Research.
“They tell us nuclear energy is cheap, but if you factor in the
huge initial costs plus waste disposal and dismantling it’s not
that different from other sources of energy.”  Italy’s finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said Sept. 5
atomic energy is “key” for the country. Some regional
authorities and members of the opposition disagree.  The region of Puglia in Italy’s south, headed by opposition
party member and environmentalist Nichi Vendola, is among those
trying to stop the process. The region  said  Sept. 13 it would go
to court to challenge the law reintroducing nuclear energy into
Italy on grounds it violates regional autonomy.  Conti said local authorities need to be better informed
about the high degree of safety modern plants afford and the
advantages in terms of lower electricity price. Each plant will
create 10,000 temporary jobs during construction and 1,200
permanent ones during operation, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alessandra Migliaccio  in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 