-- J&J Must Pay Louisiana $257.7 Million Over Risperdal Marketing Practices
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2010-10-15T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/j-j-owes-louisiana-for-risperdal-claims-jury-told-update1-.html
Johnson & Johnson  lost a $257.7
million jury verdict in Louisiana for making misleading claims
about the safety of the company’s Risperdal antipsychotic drug.  J&J officials defrauded the state’s Medicaid system by
wrongfully touting Risperdal as superior to competing
antipsychotic drugs and minimizing its links to diabetes, said
jurors in state court in Opelousas, Louisiana.  Yesterday’s verdict is the second trial loss in a state
lawsuit brought over Risperdal marketing. A West Virginia judge
in a non-jury trial last year awarded $3.95 million, finding the
company misled doctors about the risks and benefits of
Risperdal. New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J appealed.  Michael Heinley, a spokesman for J&J’s Ortho-McNeil Janssen
Pharmaceuticals unit, said the company is disappointed with the
jury’s decision and will appeal.  “We believe the jury was not appropriately instructed on
applicable legal standards and that critical and highly relevant
evidence was excluded,” he said in an interview.  The jury found 35,542 violations of the state’s Medical
Assistance Programs Integrity Law and imposed a penalty of
$7,250 for each. The total $257.7 million verdict is the fifth-
largest in the U.S. so far in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘False and Misleading’  “You can’t come into Louisiana and disseminate false and
misleading information,” Patrick Morrow, who represented the
state, said after the verdict in a phone interview. “I’m sure
this matter will be in the appellate courts for years to come.
This is the first step.”  The state’s case centered on drug safety claims that J&J
and Ortho-McNeil Janssen made in November 2003 correspondence to
700,000 doctors. In those letters, J&J touted Risperdal as safer
than competing antipsychotics such as  Indianapolis-based Eli
Lilly & Co. ’s Zyprexa and London-based  AstraZeneca Plc ’s
Seroquel. Risperdal global sales peaked at $4.5 billion in 2007,
declining after the company lost patent protection.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration responded with a
warning letter saying J&J made false and misleading claims that
minimized the potentially fatal risks of diabetes and overstated
the drug’s superiority to rival medicines.  7,604 Letters  Lawyers for the state asked jurors to hold J&J liable for
the 7,604 letters it sent to Louisiana doctors and regulators
making those claims along with more than 27,542 sales calls in
the state made by the drugmaker’s representatives in 2003 and
2004.  The state sought a total of $351 million in damages,
including penalties of $10,000 for each fraudulent claim and
misrepresentation in violation of the Medical Assistance
Programs Integrity Law.  In June, J&J won dismissal of Pennsylvania’s suit alleging
the company hid health risks and duped officials into paying
millions more than they should have for the medicine.  The case is Caldwell ex rel. State of Louisiana v. Janssen
Pharmaceutical, 04-C-3967, 27th Judicial Court, St. Landry
Parish, Louisiana (Opelousas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 