-- Japan Discussed China Boat Captain With Local Prosecutors Ahead of Release
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-09-28T05:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/japan-discussed-china-boat-captain-with-local-prosecutors-ahead-of-release.html
Japan’s government contacted
prosecutors before they released a Chinese fishing-boat captain
last week, bolstering claims by ruling-party and opposition
lawmakers that  Naoto Kan ’s government caved to pressure.  The prime minister’s office spoke to foreign ministry
officials who visited prosecutors in the southern city of Naha,
Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  said in Tokyo today.  Japan’s release of the captain drew criticism from ruling
Democratic Party of Japan lawmakers, 73 of whom signed a
statement yesterday calling the decision “regrettable.” The
government has said local prosecutors, who cited Japan-China
ties as a contributing factor in their actions, made the
decision on their own.  “I understand that suitable officials at the foreign
ministry went to answer questions” at the Naha prosecutors’
office, Sengoku said.  Relations between Asia’s two biggest economies deteriorated
after Japan cited violations of domestic law for detaining the
captain and his boat earlier this month. The Chinese fisherman
collided with two Japanese Coast Guard ships near disputed
islands known as Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese.  China has demanded compensation and Japanese Economy
Minister  Banri Kaieda  said the Chinese government had put a “de
facto” ban on exports to Japan of rare-earth elements, used in
hybrid cars, laptop computers and iPhones.  Prime Minister  Kan  plans to attend an Asia-Europe summit
next week, where he’s seeking a meeting with Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  to help mend relations, Sengoku said. Wen declined to
meet Kan last week when the two leaders attended the United
Nations General Assembly in New York.  Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  said today Japan will
handle similar incidents according to domestic laws, while
calling the last collision an “accident.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  