-- Japanese Stock Futures Decline on Currency, While Australian Futures Climb
-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2010-09-28T23:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/japanese-stock-futures-decline-on-stronger-yen-australian-futures-climb.html
Japanese  stock   futures  fell as the
dollar weakened against the yen after a report showed U.S.
consumers lost confidence in September. Australian stock futures
advanced as metal prices increased.  American depositary receipts of Canon Inc., a Japanese
camera maker that gets about 28 percent of its revenue in the
Americas, lost 0.5 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo
as the lower dollar dimmed the outlook for export earnings.
Those of Sharp Corp., Japan’s biggest maker of liquid-crystal
display panels, retreated 1.6 percent. ADRs of BHP Billiton Ltd.,
the world’s largest mining company, rose 0.9 percent from the
closing share price in Sydney. The Bank of Japan is scheduled to
release a quarterly survey of business sentiment this morning.  “The worst of the U.S. recession is already behind us, but
the data showed it’s still taking time for consumer spending to
pick up steam,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in
Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 9,485 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
9,500 in Singapore. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,500 in
Osaka, Japan, at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.4 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index increased 0.2 percent in Wellington.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The index rose 0.5 percent yesterday in New York as
Walgreen Co., the largest U.S. drugstore chain, led a rally in
consumer-staples and health companies, and investors speculated
the Federal Reserve will buy more debt to safeguard the economy.  U.S. Confidence, Housing  The U.S. Conference Board’s index of consumer sentiment
fell to 48.5 this month, lower than the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the weakest level
since February, according to figures from the private research
group yesterday. A report from S&P/Case-Shiller showed house
prices in 20 U.S. cities rose at a slower pace in July from a
year earlier following the end of a government tax incentive.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has increased 5.1 percent in
2010, compared with gains of 2.9 percent by the S&P 500 and 3.3
percent for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the Asian
benchmark are valued at 14.3 times estimated  earnings  on average,
compared with 13.8 times for the S&P and 12 times for the Stoxx.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum rallied 0.6
percent yesterday. Copper futures for delivery in December rose
0.9 percent at 11:31 a.m. in New York.  The yen appreciated to 83.80 against the dollar today from
84.21 at the close of stock trading in Tokyo yesterday. A
stronger yen cuts the value of overseas income at Japanese
companies when converted into their home currency.  The Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey will probably show a
slowing pace of improvement in business confidence, adding to
pressure on policy makers to counter gains in the yen by
injecting more cash into the economy.  A quarterly index of sentiment at large manufacturers rose
6 points in September, the least since March 2009, according to
the median forecast of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The Tankan report is due at 8:50 a.m. in Tokyo.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
 Toshiro Hasegawa  in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 