-- Japan's Bonds Advance for Sixth Day as Tankan Spurs BOJ Easing Speculation
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2010-09-29T06:44:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/japan-government-bonds-may-rise-on-yen-concern-tankan-business-sentiment.html
Japanese  bonds  rose for a sixth day
after the Tankan survey showed the nation’s large manufacturers
forecast pessimists will outnumber optimists by year-end,
stoking speculation the central bank will ease monetary policy.  Benchmark 10-year  bonds  extended their rally to the longest
in 10 months after the Bank of Japan said yesterday the nation’s
financial companies should watch out for risks resulting from a
U.S. economic slowdown. The central bank’s warning came before
an industry report showing confidence among U.S. consumers fell
this month more than economists had estimated.  “The Tankan report has boosted people’s expectations for
additional easing by the central bank,” said  Hiroyuki Seki ,
chief manager of the portfolio and treasury department at Bank
of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., Japan’s biggest lender. “That’s
the sort of report that discourages investors from selling
bonds.”  The  yield  on the 10-year bond fell 3.5 basis points to 0.92
percent as of 3:30 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1 percent security
due in September 2020 rose 0.321 yen to 100.730 yen.  The six-day rally in benchmark bonds is the longest since
the period ended Nov. 18. Yields have dropped 5.5 basis points
since Aug. 31, headed for a sixth monthly decline.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery advanced 0.35
to 143.40 on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the highest closing level
since June 2003.  Tankan Survey  The  Tankan  index of sentiment at the nation’s largest
manufacturers climbed by 7 points in September, the smallest
increase since early 2009, the Bank of Japan said in Tokyo.
Confidence is expected to fall to minus 1 in December, the
report said. Negative numbers mean that pessimists outnumber
optimists.  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said on Sept. 27 the BOJ is
prepared to ease monetary policy further should a stronger yen
threaten the economy. The BOJ starts a two-day policy meeting in
Tokyo on Oct. 4.  “We should put more emphasis on the outlook index, which
signals business will likely deteriorate in the second half,”
said  Masaaki Kanno , chief Japan economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in Tokyo. The central bank “may cite today’s Tankan as a
possible reason for easing policy,” he said.  Overseas conditions including concerns over a U.S. economic
slowdown have increased “future uncertainties,” requiring
financial companies to pay attention to spillover risk to Japan,
the central bank said in a semi-annual report yesterday.  The Conference Board, a private research group in New York,
said yesterday its consumer  sentiment  index declined to 48.5
this month from a revised 53.2 in August.  ‘Buying Catalysts’  “There are lots of buying catalysts for Japanese bonds,”
 Shinji Nomura , chief debt strategist at Tokyo-based Nikko
Cordial Securities Inc., wrote in a report today. “The 10-year
yield reflects a stalling of the economic recovery, or even a
double-dip recession.”  Japanese bonds have handed investors a return of 1 percent
from June 30 through yesterday, after gaining 2.3 percent the
previous quarter, according to an index compiled by Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 