-- Japanese Smokers Buoying GDP by Hoarding Before New Tax
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2010-09-29T06:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/japanese-smokers-buoying-gdp-in-quarter-by-hoarding-cartons-before-new-tax.html
Yusuke Sato says a man walked into
his tobacco store in Atsugi, southwest of Tokyo, this month and
bought 100 cartons of Mild Seven cigarettes. While they may not
be good for his health, he may have saved $1,300.  The man is one of thousands of smokers across Japan
stocking up before Oct. 1 to beat a record 40 percent tax
increase on tobacco. Their hoarding may add as much as 1.4
percentage points to this quarter’s annualized economic growth
rate, according to estimates from the Japan Research Institute.  “We were afraid we would run out of stock,” said Sato,
who started taking reservations for cartons last month. “Thirty
cartons has been the norm.” Next month, customers would pay
110,000 yen ($1,300) more for the same 20,000-cigarette order
after the price of a pack of 20 jumps by a third, he said.  Japan is the fourth-largest market by volume for the
world’s tobacco makers, after China, the U.S. and Russia,
according to a report from U.K.-based market researcher ERC
Group. Retailers like Sato and JR East Retail Net Co. and
producers including  Japan Tobacco Inc.  have gained from the rush
of demand as they increased output and orders.  Japan Tobacco, the world’s third-largest publicly traded
cigarette maker, which controls 65 percent of its home market,
is raising prices on 103 of its 105 brands in October. A pack of
its flagship brand Mild Seven will cost 410 yen, up 110 yen, as
the government will raise the duty by 3.5 yen per cigarette,
with tobacco companies charging an extra 1.5 yen each. That’s
still less than half the $10.80 average price for a pack in New
York City.  Japan Tobacco has slid 10 percent this year, compared with
a 9.4 percent decline in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average. The stock
gained 0.1 percent to 280,700 yen today.  12 Billion Cigarettes  Japan Tobacco expects 12 billion cigarettes of additional
demand before the tax is introduced, and has increased
production accordingly, said spokeswoman Yuka Sugimoto.  “Looking at the numbers, it looks like the frontloading
already began in August,” she said. Japan’s cigarette sales by
volume climbed 1.9 percent from a year earlier, the first gain
since April 2008, according to the Tobacco Institute of Japan.  Former Prime Minister  Yukio Hatoyama  proposed the tax
increase last year to discourage smoking in a country where 36.6
percent of men and 12.1 percent of women smoke, according to
Japan Tobacco. The average Japanese smoked 2,028 cigarettes in
2007, according to ERC, almost twice as much as Americans and
Germans and almost three times as much as Swedes.  ‘Feel Bad’  “We’ve increased supply by about five times our regular
amount,” said Mitsuko Matsui, 82, owner of a tobacco store in
the Kanda business district of Tokyo. “I feel bad for the men
who come here. They’re saying their cigarettes are going to be
more expensive than their lunches.”  While New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is pushing to
extend the city’s smoking ban in indoor workplaces to public
parks and beaches, many of Japan’s restaurants don’t even have
non-smoking sections and government buildings still include
smoking rooms. The mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  The Institute for Health Economics and Policy estimates the
cost to society from smoking was 4.3 trillion yen in fiscal
2005, including fees for smoking-induced illnesses, lost
productivity and fires started by cigarettes. The Finance
Ministry, the majority shareholder of Japan Tobacco, estimates
that the tax will raise 1.97 trillion yen this fiscal year.  Naoko Ogata , a senior researcher at the Japan Research
Institute, a Tokyo-based think tank, predicts last-minute
purchasing of cigarettes this month will boost consumer spending
in the quarter ending Sept. 30 by 0.2 to 0.6 percentage points.
With consumer spending accounting for about 60 percent of the
nation’s economy, that results in a 0.5 to 1.4 percentage point
increase to annualized growth in gross domestic product.  Post-Tax Slump  This isn’t the first time smokers hoarded before the
government raised the levy. In June 2006, a month before the
last time Japan raised the duty, spending on tobacco soared 49
percent from a year earlier, according to calculations made from
statistics bureau data. The month the tax took effect, the
figure slumped 40 percent.  Japan’s economy will  expand  at a 1.7 percent annual pace in
the three months ending Sept. 30, according to 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Growth slowed to 1.5 percent annual pace
in the previous period, the slowest pace in three quarters as
consumer spending stalled, prompting Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  to
propose a new 915 billion yen stimulus package this month.  Some households this quarter also rushed to buy a new car
before a subsidy was withdrawn, prompting the government to cut
the program short as allocated funds ran out.  ‘Unbelievable Drop’  “With the cigarette tax and the end of the subsidies,
we’re going to see a huge surge this quarter, followed by an
unbelievable drop the next,” said  Azusa Kato , an economist at
BNP Paribas in Tokyo.  The long-term drop-off in tobacco demand will probably
outweigh the temporary gain as the added costs encourage smokers
to quit or cut back, said Japan Research’s Ogata. Cigarette
consumption fell by about 20 percent after past levy increases,
she said.  Some 10 percent of smokers said they would stop smoking if
the price of a pack of cigarettes became 50 yen higher, a Kansai
Institute for Social and Economic Research survey showed. Almost
half of respondents said they would quit with a 200 yen
increase.  Japan Tobacco may be looking abroad as it expects revenue
in its home market to decline 16 percent this fiscal year
because of the tax increase. The company said yesterday that
demand in Russia, Ukraine and neighboring countries is
recovering as the region emerges from the global recession.  Time to Quit  Still, analyst  Mikihiko Yamato  said the price increase will
help Japan Tobacco’s profits hold up because of the additional
1.5 yen per stick for producers.  “No questions asked, I’d say ‘buy’ to the long-term
investor,” said Yamato at Tokyo-based Japaninvest KK.  Meanwhile, smokers like Tomohiko Sato, 30, are stockpiling
ahead of the deadline.  “This changes nothing,” said Sato, who saved up 20
cartons of Lucky Strikes. “I’m not going to quit, I’m not going
to cut back. I love smoking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Teo Chian Wei  at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net . 