-- Japan's Tankan Sentiment Index Climbs Least in Six Quarters
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-09-29T01:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/japan-manufacturer-sentiment-rises-least-in-six-quarters-as-yen-advances.html
Confidence among large Japanese
manufacturers rose the least since early 2009 in September, and
companies forecast that pessimists will outnumber optimists by
year-end, as a rising yen threatens the nation’s recovery.  The Tankan  index  of sentiment climbed 7 points in September
to 8, the Bank of Japan said in Tokyo today. The figure compares
with a 15-point increase in June. Confidence is expected to fall
to minus 1 in December, the report said.  Stagnating sentiment adds to the case for the Bank of Japan
to ease monetary policy as Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  compiles a
stimulus plan to counter the effect of the yen’s 10 percent
surge against the dollar this year. The gains forced  Murata
Manufacturing Co. , an electronics components maker, to announce
it will cut most temporary jobs and move production abroad.  “The BOJ may have little choice but to take some action at
its next meeting” on Oct. 4-5, said  Norio Miyagawa , senior
economist at Mizuho Securities Research and Consulting Co. in
Tokyo. “The yen is still on the rise even though the government
intervened in currency markets and pledged an extra budget.”  Prospects for additional BOJ liquidity injections helped
bolster stocks, with the Nikkei 225 Stock Average up 0.3 percent
at 10:43 a.m. The yen traded at 83.91 per dollar, from 83.89
before the report was published. Big manufacturers see the
currency trading at 89.66 this fiscal year.  ‘Never Thought’  “We have to reduce the number of temporary workers in
Japan,” Murata President  Tsuneo Murata  said yesterday in an
interview at the company’s headquarters in Kyoto. “We never
thought the yen would become this strong.”  Confidence among large manufacturers was forecast to climb
to 7, according to the median estimate of 19 economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg News.  Politicians have already indicated the BOJ could do more,
with Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  saying on Sept. 27 that
additional liquidity injections by the Bank of Japan may be
effective in influencing the yen. Vice Finance Minister  Mitsuru Sakurai  also said on the same day that increasing government
bond purchases is one policy option for the central bank.  Authorities intervened in currency markets for the first
time since 2004 this month as the stronger yen threatens profits
of exporters from  Nissan Motor Co.  to  Canon Inc .  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his board will deliberate
policy at a meeting next week. He reiterated this week that the
bank stands ready to take action when necessary. They last eased
policy by expanding a credit lending program to 30 trillion yen
($357 billion) on Aug. 30.  Growth Cooling  Recent data point to a tempering rebound in the economy,
with growth last quarter decelerating to a 1.5 percent annual
pace, compared with 5 percent in the first three months of the
year. Exports grew at the slowest pace this year in August.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty about where the economy is
headed,” said  Yoshiki Shinke , senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life
Research Institute in Tokyo. “With companies this cautious,
they’re likely to be careful about spending and hiring.”  Canon, the world’s largest camera maker, estimates that
 operating profit will shrink  by 4.7 billion yen for every 1 yen
the currency strengthens beyond 90 per dollar in the second half
of 2010.  Even a yen level of 90 to the dollar may not be enough to
prevent production draining out of Japan,  Toshiyuki Shiga ,
chairman of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, said
Sept. 16. Shiga is also the chief operating officer of Yokohama-
based Nissan, Japan’s third-biggest carmaker.  Automakers appear to be especially concerned about the
outlook and expect the sentiment index to decline 38 points in
three months’ time, the biggest drop for the industry since the
central bank started tracking confidence by sector in 1992.  Incentives Ending  In addition to the currency, growth may be affected by the
ending of incentives for purchases of energy-efficient cars this
month. Kan asked his ministers to compile additional measures to
supplement a stimulus package he unveiled on Sept. 10. The extra
budget for the fiscal year ending March 2011 may be as much as
4.6 trillion yen, a government official said on condition of
anonymity earlier this week.  Large companies plan to boost  spending  by 2.4 percent in
the year ending March 31, today’s report showed. Economists
forecast a 3 percent increase. The figures are based on the new
accounting standard for lease transactions. Based on the
previous accounting rule, companies planned to increase spending
by 4.4 percent in June.  Weak Momentum  “Capital spending is increasing, but the momentum of these
gains has been weak,” Dai-Ichi’s Shinke said. “Capital
spending isn’t strong enough to make up for the slowdown in
exports and fading of stimulus measures.”  The Tankan was conducted from Aug. 23 to Sept. 28 and
surveyed 11,283 businesses. About 70 percent to 80 percent of
the responses were collected by Sept. 7, more than a week before
the government intervened in currency markets.  “Japan’s economy may experience a severe pullback in the
fourth quarter and the first quarter of the next year after
last-minute buying of cars boosts consumer spending in the July-
September period,” said  Seiji Adachi , a senior economist at
Deutsche Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “There’s a chance that Japan
will dip into a recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  