-- JJB Sports Slumps as Retailer Adds Promotions to Drive Growth in Its Sales
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-09-28T09:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/jjb-sports-slumps-as-retailer-adds-promotions-to-drive-growth-in-its-sales.html
JJB Sports Plc , the U.K.’s third-
largest sporting goods retailer, fell the most in more than 14
months in London trading after the company added promotions
following “more volatile” sales since August.  Revenue at stores open at least a year climbed 6 percent in
the four weeks through Sept. 26, the Wigan, England-based
retailer said today in a statement. That compares with an 18
percent gain in the prior month.  JJB will become “synonymous” with value-added promotions,
with more planned for October, Chief Executive Officer  Keith Jones  said today in an interview. The 249-store  retailer  offered
discounts such as the “Save and Spend” promotion in September
offering 5-pound ($7.90) price-reduction vouchers on purchases
of at least 30 pounds.  “With competition intensifying and competitors, such as
Sports Direct, adapting similar strategies, it will be a long
haul to put the company back on the recovery track,” said
 Freddie George , an analyst at Seymour Pierce with a “sell”
 recommendation  on the stock.  JJB fell as much as 1.96 pence, or 18 percent, to 9.04
pence, the biggest  intraday drop  since July 6, 2009, and was
down 11 percent as of 10:09 a.m. The stock has plunged 61
percent this year.  First-Half Loss  The operating loss in the six months ended Aug. 1  narrowed 
to 24.6 million pounds from 41.9 million pounds a year earlier
after sales of replica football clothing increased during the
World Cup soccer tournament, JJB said. Sales rose 10 percent to
184 million pounds. Gross profit, or revenue minus the cost of
sales, rose to 77.6 million pounds from 60 million pounds.  JJB is sticking to a  target  of full-year gross margin at
the “lower end” of 40 percent to 42 percent of revenue this
year, even with an increase in sales promotions, Jones said.  A refurbished store format being tested in Slough, England,
will be extended to five more outlets by the end of October, he
said. The store has performed “well ahead of company group
averages,” with sales exceeding the average at other outlets by
4 percent and average transaction values beating the others by 5
pounds, according to the CEO. Jones said he’ll decide next year
on whether the remaining outlets will be renovated.  JJB has added to senior  management  this year with  Kate Hayes , a former international retail director at Ben Sherman and
a buying director at  Nike Inc ., appointed as trading director
last month and  Ron Rome  as retail director in April. The company
said today that Debbie Robinson, formerly head of food marketing
at The Co-Operative Group, will run JJB’s marketing, completing
the company’s sports-operating board.  “I never said the turnaround would be quick or easy but we
have made a good start,” Jones said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 