-- JPMorgan Plans to Triple Private Banking Assets in Asia Over Five Years
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-09-29T01:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/jpmorgan-plans-to-triple-private-banking-assets-in-asia-over-five-years.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  plans to
triple private banking assets in Asia, its fastest-growing
market, over the next five years after moving one of its top
executives to the region.  The unit, which manages money for wealthy clients and
employs 400 people in Asia, intends to increase its number of
client advisors in the region by 40 percent this year and next,
after growing at a similar pace in 2009,  Douglas Wurth , chief
executive officer for international private banking at New York-
based JPMorgan, said in an interview.  JPMorgan aims to generate about half of its non-U.S.
business from Asia, up from the current 20 percent, according to
Wurth, who moved to Hong Kong in February from New York. Rivals
including  UBS AG  are also expanding in the region, where assets
of millionaires grew 31 percent in 2009, according to a June
report by Capgemini SA and Bank of America Corp.  “However excited one can be about the opportunities when
you’re in New York, that only magnifies ten-fold once you’re
here in Hong Kong, Singapore, Beijing, Jakarta,” Wurth said in
Singapore yesterday. “You just see up close and personal the
dynamic changes taking place.”  JPMorgan’s expansion comes after the number of millionaires
in the Asia-Pacific region reached 3 million in 2009, matching
those in Europe for the first time, according to the report by
Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit and Capgemini. The
millionaires’ assets rose 31 percent to $9.7 trillion, it said.  Multi-Millionaires  Wurth said the private bank will expand its services in
Asia to the high net worth segment, or to people with investible
assets of more than $10 million, from ultra high net worth
people, or those with about $50 million. JPMorgan will also grow
in markets like India and China, where it will hire more than
half of its new staff, he said. The private bank manages more
than $700 billion of assets globally, Wurth said.  “JPMorgan as a bank has a good brand, but expanding to the
high net worth segment is going to be a brand new business for
them,” said Chris Claridge, managing partner at  Consulting
Partnership , a Singapore-based recruitment firm. “There are
already many established players in the market, and clients will
be asking why I would want to move my money again.”  It could also be a “toughish proposition” in the short
term to attract talent as the bank grows and modifies its
platform to accommodate the expanded clientele, Claridge said.  JPMorgan appointed  Peter Flavel , formerly  Standard
Chartered ’s global head of private banking, in July to a newly
created role as Asia CEO of private wealth management, focusing
on individuals with more than $10 million. A month earlier, it
appointed  Andrew Cohen  as Asia-Pacific CEO of private banking
for ultra-high net worth individuals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  