-- Oracle, JPMorgan, Potash, GMAC/Ally in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-09-28T11:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/jpmorgan-potash-gmac-ally-pfizer-vodafone-in-court-news.html
Oracle Corp.  sued Micron Technology
Inc., alleging it overcharged  Sun Microsystems Inc. , which
Oracle acquired, by conspiring to fix prices for computer memory
chips.  Micron  and other makers of dynamic random access memory, or
DRAM, artificially inflated the price of chips they sold to Sun,
Oracle claimed in an antitrust complaint filed Sept. 24 in
federal court in San Jose, California.  The case is partly based on a 2002 U.S. Justice Department
investigation of price fixing in the memory-chip industry that
led to claims against four companies and 16 people who have been
fined as much as $731 million.  Micron  cooperated with U.S.
officials in exchange for not being charged with a crime,
according to Oracle’s complaint.  The memory manufacturers “conspired to control production
capacity, raise prices or slow their decline, allocate
customers, and otherwise unlawfully overcharge their DRAM
customers,” Oracle said in its complaint.  Dan Francisco, a spokesman for Boise, Idaho-based Micron,
declined to comment.  Ichon, South Korea-based  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. , Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung Electronics Co., Tokyo-based Elpida
Memory Inc. and Neubiberg, Germany-based Infineon Technologies
AG are indentified by Oracle as co-conspirators in the case.
Those companies aren’t named as defendants.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Micron Technology Inc.,
10-04340, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more, click here.  Lawsuits  JPMorgan Based Home Foreclosures on Faulty Court Documents  JPMorgan Chase & Co . faces a legal challenge next month
that could cast doubt on thousands of foreclosures after a
mortgage executive at the bank said she didn’t verify documents
used to justify home seizures.  Lawyers for a Palm Beach County, Florida, homeowner asked a
judge to throw out a foreclosure as a penalty for misleading the
court, according to attorney Tom Ice of  Ice Legal PA . They’re
citing a May 17 deposition in which the JPMorgan executive said
she signed thousands of affidavits and documents supporting the
New York-based bank’s claims without personally checking loan
records. The court is scheduled to hear arguments Oct. 19.  The Chase Home Finance operation supervisor, Beth Ann
Cottrell, said in May she was among eight managers who together
sign about 18,000 documents a month, according to a  transcript 
of her sworn deposition provided by Ice. Asked how they were
prepared, she said she relied on other people at the firm.  “My review is more or less signing the document unless
it’s questionable,” she said. That means, “somebody has a
question and brings it to me and says, ‘Beth, can you take a
look at this?’”  Inaccurate statements by banks in foreclosure documents may
give borrowers who have lost their homes a legal basis to
challenge the seizures, derailing resales and casting doubts on
property titles. A Florida court sanctioned  Ally Financial
Inc. ’s  GMAC Mortgage  unit for faulty affidavits in 2006, and the
firm suspended evictions in 23 states this month after finding
employees still signing affidavits without checking the data.  JPMorgan spokesman Tom Kelly declined to comment. Cottrell
didn’t return phone calls to her office requesting comment. A
lawyer representing her at the deposition, Joseph Mancilla of
the Florida Default Law Group PL, didn’t return calls. Cottrell
isn’t named as a defendant.  For more, click here.  Potash Corp. Can Examine BHP Evidence U.S. Judge Says  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  is entitled to
documentary evidence requested from  BHP Billiton Ltd.  in a
lawsuit in which the Canadian fertilizer company seeks to block
a $40 billion hostile takeover offer.  “Unless BHP is prepared to extend the tender date, I’m not
going to stay discovery,” U.S. District Judge David H. Coar in
Chicago told lawyers for both sides yesterday. BHP set a Nov. 18
deadline for Potash stockholders to accept its $130-a-share
offer.  The world’s largest fertilizer maker, Saskatoon-based
Potash sued BHP on Sept. 22, alleging that the company’s
executives made misleading public statements to drive down its
share value, increasing the likelihood of a successful bid.  Potash asked Coar for an order barring Melbourne-based BHP
from taking further steps to acquire its shares. It also asked
the judge to direct BHP to issue a “corrective disclosure”
statement, and to give Potash shareholders 60 days to consider
it.  Coar yesterday scheduled a hearing on the injunction
request for Nov. 4.  BHP, in a Sept. 24 court filing, called Potash’s demand
that it hand over large quantities of documents burdensome and a
“fishing expedition” and said the company waited too long to
make the request.  The company said Coar should deny the discovery demand
until he rules on a dismissal request the Australian company has
not yet submitted.  Coar yesterday told BHP attorney Michele Odorizzi that he
won’t set any dates concerning a dismissal motion until one is
actually filed.  He said the Potash evidence demand was overly broad and
that BHP would not be required to produce documentation until
the scope of that demand had been narrowed either by mutual
agreement or the direction of a federal magistrate judge.  “We are pleased that the court has scheduled a hearing on
Nov. 4, well in advance of the Nov. 18 scheduled expiration of
our offer,” BHP said in an e-mailed press statement after
yesterday’s court appearance. “We believe the case is without
merit and we intend to contest it vigorously, including by
filing a motion to dismiss later this week.”  Potash declined to comment on the court’s ruling.  The case is Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan v. BHP Billiton,
10-06024, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  BP’s Probation Over Fatal Texas Blast Won’t Be Revoked by U.S.  BP Plc’s  probation for violating a plea deal that resolved
the company’s criminal liability for a fatal 2005 explosion at
its Texas City, Texas, refinery won’t be revoked by the U.S.
Justice Department.  After consulting with BP, regulators and blast  victims ,
prosecutors said they would give the company 18 more months to
complete required safety reviews and upgrades at the Texas
refinery, according to documents filed in federal court in
Houston.  “The Department of Justice is not seeking a revocation or
extension of probation at this time,” Daniel Dooher, a senior
trial attorney in the U.S. environmental crimes division, said
in a Sept. 8 letter to U.S. District Judge Lee Rosenthal. Dooher
said safety regulators and “BP have executed a stipulation and
agreement resolving the allegations of non-compliance,” which
includes an extension of BP’s deadline to complete the work
until March 12, 2012, the date its probation will expire.  BP Products North America, a unit of the London-based
company, agreed in March 2009 to pay a $50 million fine and
complete three years probation for violating U.S. air pollution
laws linked to the March 2005 explosion that killed 15 and
injured thousands.  BP’s plea deal required it to complete a review of
pressure-relief valves throughout its largest U.S. refinery and
complete installation of automated safety instrumentation, as
required by the company’s settlement with the U.S.  Occupational
Safety and Health Administration .  Brent Coon, the lead lawyer for victims of the explosion,
called the government’s decision “disappointing but not
surprising.” He said yesterday in an e-mail that prosecutors
had told him they “don’t want to reopen the case unless
negotiations with OSHA collapse.”  Daren Beaudo, a BP spokesman, didn’t return a call and e-
mail seeking comment yesterday after regular business hours.  The 2005 explosion occurred when an octane-boosting unit
overflowed as it was being restarted, igniting a blast that
shattered windows five miles away. The U.S. Chemical Safety
Board found numerous safety lapses that rendered the plant “a
catastrophe waiting to happen,” according to John Bresland, the
board’s chairman.  The case is U.S. v. BP Products North America, 4:07-cr-
00434, U.S. District Courts, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  Kerimov’s Assets Are Frozen in Second Court Order  A Cyprus court extended a freeze on Russian billionaire
Suleiman Kerimov’s assets, including stakes in mining company
 OAO Polyus Gold  and fertilizer maker  OAO Uralkali .  The case, reviewed yesterday, will be heard again on Nov.
17, Nicosia District Court President Michalis Christodoulou said
at the court. A Sept. 17 order already banned Cyprus-registered
entities controlled by Kerimov from any transactions using
shares in Uralkali and Polyus.  The move follows a complaint against Kerimov by Ashot
Egiazaryan, a member of Russia’s lower house of parliament, who
claims Kerimov forced him to relinquish 25.5 percent of the
 Moskva hotel  near Moscow’s Red Square. Egiazaryan filed a
request for $2 billion in damages at the London Court of
International Arbitration on Sept. 13, according to court
documents in Cyprus.  A lawyer for Kerimov, Michael Stepek at Akin Gump Strauss
Hauer & Feld LLP in Geneva, would only say he was aware of the
Cypriot injunction.  Soteris Flourentzos and George Triantafyllides, lawyers who
represent five of Kerimov’s companies affected by the
injunction, had appealed against the Sept. 17 order.  Those five companies have been officially notified of the
court’s latest ruling, Andreas Chaviaras, Egiazaryan’s lawyer,
said yesterday. “We have indications that also the remaining
companies have been notified,” he said.  Kerimov, ranked by  Finans magazine  as Russia’s fourth-
richest man with a fortune of $14.5 billion, owns 37 percent of
Polyus, according to a July 2009 company filing, and 25 percent
of Uralkali. The stakes, of which part are pledged for bank
loans, are worth $3.4 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively,
Bloomberg calculations show.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Legal Reviews  Bar to GMAC/Ally Foreclosures Sought by Connecticut  Connecticut Attorney General Richard Blumenthal said his
office is investigating defective foreclosure documents filed by
 GMAC/Ally Finance Inc.  and demanding that the company freeze
foreclosures in the state.  “The GMAC/Ally foreclosure steamroller should be stopped
so the company can be held accountable,” Blumenthal said
yesterday in a statement. “My office has already confirmed that
some defective documents were filed in Connecticut.”  Blumenthal’s action follows news of investigations by
Texas, Iowa and Illinois into mortgage practices at Ally.
California ordered the company to stop foreclosures until it can
prove it is complying with state law.  Ally, the Detroit-based auto and home lender, faces claims
that its GMAC unit evicted people from their homes without first
ensuring that the borrowers were in default or the firm had
legal standing to take possession of the homes.  GMAC Mortgage on Sept. 17 notified agents and brokers that
it was suspending evictions in 23 states.  New Suits  Pfizer Sues Novo Nordisk Over Insulin-Device Patent  Pfizer Inc. , the world’s biggest drugmaker, sued Danish
competitor  Novo Nordisk A/S  in a U.K. court to invalidate its
patent for an injection mechanism that prevents overdoses.  Novo Nordisk’s European patent for the dose-setting device
is based on claims that weren’t new when the patent application
was filed, New York-based Pfizer said in a complaint in the High
Court in London. The suit, filed July 5 and made public this
week, didn’t say if Pfizer is using the technology.  “We disagree with Pfizer’s claim and we will defend the
patent in court,” Mike Rulis, a spokesman for Bagsvaerd,
Denmark-based Novo Nordisk, said yesterday in a phone interview.  Pfizer and Novo Nordisk, the world’s biggest maker of the
diabetes treatment insulin, have sparred over delivery methods
for the drug since at least 2005. The disputed patent concerns a
device that lets doctors set maximum dose limits to prevent the
visually impaired and other groups from using too much during
self injections.  Pfizer also sued Novo Nordisk in Switzerland over the same
patent, which expires in 2026, Pfizer spokeswoman Charlotte
Binstead said in an e-mailed statement.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  India Court Tells Authorities to Fix Vodafone Taxes  India’s Supreme Court gave the tax department four weeks to
fix the amount it’s claiming from  Vodafone Group Plc  on the
company’s purchase of Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s wireless assets
in the country.  A three-judge bench of India’s highest court headed by
Chief Justice S.H. Kapadia yesterday set Oct. 25 as the date for
its next hearing on an appeal by Vodafone of a lower court
ruling that upheld authorities’ right to claim the taxes. The
company may need to pay a part of the liability, estimated at
more than 120 billion rupees ($2.6 billion) including interest,
pending disposal of the case, the court indicated.  The Newbury, England-based company is appealing against the
Sept. 8 verdict of the Bombay High Court, which ruled
authorities have the jurisdiction to seek taxes from Vodafone
International Holdings BV on its 2007 purchase of Hutchison’s
Indian wireless operations.  “The Supreme Court will now give a final take on the
Vodafone matter,” Hitesh Jain, a partner at Mumbai-based law
firm ALMT Legal, said by telephone. “It’s also one more forum
for Vodafone to debate the issue, to explain their position, so
it’s a positive development for the company.”  The carrier “firmly” believes its acquisition isn’t
liable for tax in India, Vodafone said in an e-mail. The
transaction was between Netherlands-based Vodafone International
and Hong Kong-based Hutchison and the stake Vodafone acquired
was owned by a Cayman Islands-based holding company.  U.S. Urges Stem-Cell Funding Stay by Appeals Court  The U.S. Justice Department urged a federal appeals court
to maintain its stay on a lower-court order cutting off funds
for embryonic stem cell research while it seeks to overturn the
trial judge’s ruling.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia, after an hour-long hearing, didn’t say
when it would decide whether to make the emergency hold extend
through the appeal. The Obama administration attorneys argued
that even a temporary cutoff would cause irreparable harm to
researchers, taxpayers and scientific progress.  The appeals court ruled on Sept. 9 that the government can
keep funds flowing for the research at least during the initial
stages of the administration’s challenge to the order banning
taxpayer support for any activity using cells taken from human
embryos.  U.S. Judge Royce Lamberth last month cited the still-in-
force 1996 Dickey-Wicker Amendment in his ruling, saying
Congress prohibited funding any research in which a human embryo
was destroyed.  The decision will be made by Judith Rogers, appointed by
former President Bill Clinton, and Thomas Griffith and Brett
Kavanaugh, both appointed by former President George W. Bush.  Beth Brinkmann, an attorney for the Justice Department,
told the panel that cutting off funding would waste millions of
dollars in already earmarked grants and force scientists to
start research over should Lamberth’s ruling ultimately be
overturned,.  “We’re not here to” decide “upon the wisdom of the
government policy,” said Griffith. Rather, the court is
deciding whether the funding violates the statute.  Thomas Hungar, an attorney for stem-cell research
opponents, said government attorneys are only speculating on the
potential harm, and no injury is imminent or irreversible.  The case is Sherley v. Sebelius, 10-5287, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia (Washington).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here. For the
latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at   eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 