-- Kan Asks to Meet Wen in Belgium to Repair Strained China Ties
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-28T10:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/kan-asks-to-meet-wen-in-belgium-to-repair-strained-china-ties.html
Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
said there is no plan “at this point” to meet with Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  at an Asia-Europe summit next week to help
mend relations strained by a boat collision in disputed waters.  Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  said earlier that
Japan was “exploring” the possibility of arranging a meeting
at the Oct. 4-5 forum in Brussels. A Chinese Foreign Ministry
official said Wen, who declined to meet Kan last week at the
 United Nations General Assembly  in New York, didn’t have many
one-on-one meetings with leaders scheduled.  “It is important for the heads of Europe and Asia to
gather together, which is why I’m going,” Kan told reporters
today in Tokyo. “At this point, there isn’t anything else
planned.”  Asked about the possibility of a Japan-China summit in
Brussels, Chinese Vice Foreign Minister  Fu Ying  today said,
“there will not be too many bilateral meetings.”  Ties between Asia’s two biggest economies soured over the
detention of a Chinese fishing boat captain whose ship collided
with two Japanese Coast Guard vessels. Japan’s decision to
release him last week failed to assuage China, which demanded
compensation for the seizure of the trawler and crew. Japanese
Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said China had put a “de facto”
ban on exports to Japan of rare-earth elements, used in hybrid
cars, laptop computers and iPhones.  Rare Earth Shipments       China Rare Earth Holdings Ltd. , which exports 30 percent of
its products to Japan, today said shipments there were halted
last week after a local branch of the Chinese trade ministry
stopped issuing licenses.  The ban “could have a very big impact on Japan’s
economy,” Kaieda said at a press conference in Tokyo today.
China has been making a “very severe” response to the
captain’s arrest, he said.  Restrictions on rare-earth exports suggest the diplomatic
row may now be affecting economic ties. Japan is China’s second-
biggest trading partner after the U.S., with two-way commerce in
the first seven months of the year rising 24.7 percent from the
same period in 2009 to $65.2 billion, according to Chinese
customs statistics.  Speaking in New York on Sept. 21, Wen said the incident had
caused  “serious damage”  to bilateral ties.  Japan Criticism  The Sept. 24 release of the captain after 17 days in
detention triggered criticism in Japan that Kan’s administration
caved to Chinese pressure. Opposition politicians questioned
Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  today in parliament over the
incident. Government officials contacted local prosecutors
before they set the captain free, Sengoku said today.  Japan yesterday said China should pay for repairing the two
damaged Coast Guard vessels, rejecting Chinese compensation
demands for detaining the captain and crew.  The dispute has stirred up nationalist sentiment in China
where millions of people died during Japan’s occupation of large
portions of the country during World War II. Online blogs are
full of references to Japanese “devils.” Protesters outside
the Japanese Embassy in Beijing on Sept. 18 called for a boycott
of the nation’s goods.  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  said the onus
was on Japan to mend ties.  “We hope that China and Japan can make joint efforts and
meet each other halfway,” Jiang told reporters in Beijing.
“But whether bilateral relations can come back to the right
track lies with the attitude and actions of the Japanese side.”  -- Takashi Hirokawa ,  Michael Forsythe ,  Sachiko Sakamaki . Editors:
 John Brinsley   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  