-- Ken Fisher Dubs New Normal Idiotic, Sees Great Decade Ahead
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-09-28T09:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/ken-fisher-dubs-new-normal-idiotic-sees-good-returns-over-next-decade.html
The next decade will be as good for
investors as the 1990s, said  Ken Fisher , the billionaire chief
executive officer of Fisher Investments Inc., dismissing notions
that developed economies face below-average growth.  Fisher said the concept of a “new normal” is “idiotic,”
pitting him against money managers including  Mohamed El-Erian ,
the CEO of Pacific Investment Management Co., which coined the
term to describe a world of high unemployment, more regulation,
and the shrinking importance of the U.S. in the global economy.  “We are chimpanzees with no memory,” Fisher said at the
Forbes Global CEO Conference in Sydney. “The next 10 years are
going to be just as good as the 1990s. The problems in this
current environment we think are so different, and so new and so
unique. It’s the same stupid old normal we’ve always had. We’ve
got a great future.”  Any revaluation of China’s currency against the dollar is
unlikely to have a long-term effect on investors, said Fisher,
who oversees $35 billion from Woodside, California.  The U.S. is seeking a stronger yuan after its trade deficit
with China widened to $145 billion in the first seven months of
this year, from $123 billion for the same period in 2009.  Skepticism and pessimism are normal sentiments for
investors 18 months after the bottom of a bear market, according
to Fisher, who said in July 2007 that the global credit crunch
was “just all minor volatility” and “just fears of much ado
about nothing.”  ‘Bumbling Along’  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed for eight of the 10
years, from 1990 to 1999, including five consecutive annual
gains of at least 19.5 percent in the second half of the decade.
In London, the  FTSE 100 Index  also rose for eight of the 10
years.  Pimco, based in Newport Beach, California, used the phrase
“new normal” last year, forecasting an extended period of
lower-than-average economic growth. Bond and equity strategists,
bankers and economists adopted the term as concerns grew about
Europe’s debt crisis and the strength of the global recovery.  “We can quibble about details, but right now, we’ve got
the world snarky, skeptical, pessimistic, which is normal a year
and a half after the bottom of a big bear market,” said Fisher.
“It’s what we always get.”  Fisher said in October 2008 that U.S. stocks were close to
the bottom. The S&P 500 fell about 30 percent from October 2008
to a 12-year low in March 2009.  Yuan Revaluation  Fisher said he disagreed with billionaire investor  Wilbur Ross , chairman of New York-based WL Ross & Co., who said at the
conference today that the U.S. economy will be “sort of
bumbling along, not having a lot of direction one way or the
other.”  An upward revaluation of China’s yuan against the dollar
wouldn’t create any new jobs in the U.S., said Ross.  “Those jobs are gone,” he said. “‘The only question is,
do they stay in China or do they migrate to Indonesia, Malaysia,
Thailand or Vietnam? It’s total political nonsense, all the
China bashing.”  Forcing China to raise the value of its currency may create
500,000 U.S. jobs, according to C.  Fred Bergsten , director of
the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  