-- Kim Puts Family First as Son Named to North Korea Party Post
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-09-29T00:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/kim-jong-il-puts-family-first-as-son-sister-named-north-korean-generals.html
Kim Jong Il  appointed his son to
the ruling party’s second-highest military position, indicating
North Korea’s ailing leader intends to extend his family’s rule
of a totalitarian state that has armed itself with nuclear
weapons while relying on donors to feed its 24 million people.  Kim Jong Un  was elected one of two Central Military
Commission vice chairmen at a Worker’s Party of Korea meeting
yesterday, a day after he was made a four-star general, the
official Korean Central News Agency said. He also joined the
party’s Central Committee, though not the more elite Politburo,
at a meeting yesterday. His father’s sister,  Kim Kyong Hui , was
given several high-ranking posts, including politburo
membership, KCNA reported.  The Kim family’s tightening grip on the military and party
hierarchy underscores the challenge of transferring power to a
son who had never before been mentioned in a KCNA dispatch. Kim
Jong Un faces an increasingly disgruntled public in an economy
squeezed by United Nations sanctions targeted at its weapons
programs and a bungled currency revaluation.  “Even Kim Jong Il must be wary of public criticism should
his son fail to improve economic conditions,”  Paik Hak Soon ,
director of inter-Korean relations at the Seongnam, South Korea-
based Sejong Institute, said before the commission appointment.
“Domestic political stability will be Kim Jong Un’s key
focus.”  Kim Jong Il, 68, was re-elected as party chief, general
secretary and chairman of the military commission, KCNA said.  China’s Congratulation  China’s President  Hu Jintao  congratulated Kim Jong Il on
his re-election, pledging to strengthen ties with his country’s
communist neighbor “to a higher level,” the state-run Xinhua
News Agency reported today, without mentioning the son. Kim Jong
Il made an unprecedented two trips to China this year, prompting
speculation he was seeking endorsement of the power transfer
from his nation’s main political and economic ally.  North Korea’s economy is faltering after floods wiped out
crops and damaged houses. There have been sporadic public
protests since food shortages worsened following a government
decision to devalue the currency and confiscate savings,
according to reports by Seoul-based rights groups, including
 Good Friends .  The economy shrank 0.9 percent to 24.7 trillion won ($20
billion) in 2009 after the UN toughened sanctions against the
country of 24 million people over its second nuclear test in May
last year, according to the Bank of Korea in Seoul.  Swiss Schooling  Kim Jong Un, said by South Korea’s Unification Ministry to
be in his late 20s, attended the  International School of Berne 
in Switzerland, according to media, including the Seoul-based
Dong-A Ilbo newspaper. The school declined to comment.  A North Korean student named Pak Un, though, attended a
nearby school called  Liebefeld Steinhoelzli , near where North
Korean embassy employees  lived , school head Peter Burri said in
an interview last year.  The Washington Post  reported in July
2009 that that student was Kim Jong Un.  Pak Un was “interested in sports, open-minded, and
intelligent,” said town councilor Ueli Studer. Joao Micaelo, a
then-student who was reported by the Post to have been friends
with Kim Jong Un, said in an interview that his friend went by
Pak Un, without commenting on any other identity.  Kim Jong Un’s public debut supports speculation that his
father has been preparing to hand over power since reportedly
suffering a stroke in 2008. The latest published  picture  of Kim
Jong Il from a meeting with Chinese President  Hu Jintao  in
August showed his hair was thinner than when he was last seen in
May. He was shown then limping and dragging his left foot.  Father’s Favorite  The father favored Kim Jong Un over the other sons, Kenji
Fujimoto, a Japanese sushi chef who worked for the dictator for
13 years, wrote in a 2004  book , “Kim Jong-Il: North Korea’s
Dear Leader.”  “Jong Un is very similar to his father, even his physical
shape,” he wrote.  Kim Jong Un and his older brother,  Kim Jong Chol,  were born
to Kim Jong Il’s companion, Ko Young Hee. The eldest son, Kim
Jong Nam, who had a different mother, fell out of favor after he
was caught trying to enter Japan in 2001 on a fake passport,
Yonhap News reported yesterday. Kim Jong Chol was too unhealthy
and mentally weak to be picked, Yonhap said.  The orders promoting Kim Jong Un and his aunt, Kim Kyong
Hui, to four-star general were issued by Kim Jong Il, who called
on military commanders to “remain true to the party’s
leadership in the future,”  KCNA  said, without mentioning the
family ties.  ‘Hasty’  “It seems a little hasty for Kim Jong Il to be revealing
his son at such a young age, but he must have felt time is
running out,” said  Kim Yong Hyun , professor of North Korean
studies at Seoul-based Dongguk University. “He may have his
sister and brother-in-law act as his son’s shield until Kim Jong
Un proves his leadership.”  Kim Kyong Hui, 64, is a member of the central committee of
the Workers’ Party in charge of light industry, according to
South Korea’s Unification Ministry. Her husband,  Jang Song Thaek , was named vice chairman of the National Defense
Commission in June, making him North Korea’s second-most
powerful official.  ‘Symbolic Step’  “The promotions are a significant symbolic step to
legitimatizing Kim Jong Un as successor, as gaining military
support is crucial to becoming a leader in North Korea,” said
 Baek Seung Joo , a senior research fellow at the Korea Institute
of Defense Analyses in Seoul. “This will pave the way for Kim
Jong Un to assume key party posts, which will allow him to exert
greater powers.”  Kim Jong Il’s position as heir to his father, North Korean
founder  Kim Il Sung , was cemented at the last party congress in
1980. It wasn’t until his father’s death 14 years later that he
took power.  “Kim Jong Un has to prove his worth and has to do it
fast,” Baek said. “He may still be a better leader than Kim
Jong Il having been educated abroad and we can only hope he will
to opening up the country.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story
Bomi Lim at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  