-- Nairobi City Council Considers $1.2 Billion Bond Sale for Housing, Roads
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-09-28T14:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/nairobi-considers-selling-1-2-billion-in-bonds-to-build-roads-schools.html
The City Council of Kenya’s
capital,  Nairobi , is considering a proposal to raise 100 billion
shillings ($1.2 billion) through the sale of bonds to revamp
roads, schools and hospitals, Town Clerk Philip Kisia said.  While Nairobi generates 60 percent of gross domestic
product in East Africa’s largest economy, half of its 3.1
million people live in slums, Kisia told a conference in the
city today. Plans to repair potholed roads, build affordable
housing and ease traffic gridlock are the key to realizing
Kenya’s goal of becoming a middle-income nation by 2030, he
said.  “Poor infrastructure leads to high costs of doing
business,” Kisia said.  Nairobi will have trouble raising the funds unless there’s
an improved public perception of the city’s handling of
budgetary matters,  John Murugu , director of Kenya’s Finance
Ministry’s Debt Management Department, said at the conference.  “Financial conditions must be met, including showing it
can service debts,” Murugu said. That will require “changing
the council’s image with figures, so investors can have
confidence,” he said.  Kenya’s new constitution, which was signed into law in
August, gives scope for local governments to take on debt and
tap other sources of revenue,  Lewis Nguyai , assistant minister
for local government, said at the meeting. County-level bonds
must come with a government guarantee, he said.  Population Growth  The expansion of roads and electricity in Nairobi hasn’t
kept pace with population growth of 3.8 percent a year over the
last decade. About 40 percent of the city’s residents use open-
pit toilets, while one out of every four people lacks access to
treated, piped water, according to the  Kenya National Bureau of
Statistics . The issuance of bonds would be the city’s first
since Kenya gained independence from Britain in 1963.  Building and upgrading roads would get 67 billion
shillings, while construction of medical facilities and schools
would receive 10 billion shillings each, according to an initial
bond-sale proposal, Kisia said. The remaining funds would be
used to build stadiums, develop communications technology and
boost fire-fighting and disaster-management capacity.  The City Council is clearing debts and ensuring it’s
operating in accordance with auditing standards in preparation
for the planned bond sale, said Kisia. Nairobi has debts
totaling 28.5 billion shillings, he said.  A bond offer of 100 billion shillings by the council would
be supported by ample liquidity in the Kenyan market, said Kevin
Bender, a capital-markets expert at the International Finance
Corp., World Bank’s private-sector lending arm.  “Knowing this market and knowing the global market, this
is very doable,” Bender said at the conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ana Monteiro at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net . 