-- New Zealand Trade Deficit Widens as Exports Drop to Lowest in Nine Months
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-09-28T23:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/new-zealand-trade-deficit-widened-in-august-as-exports-fell-to-9-month-low.html
New Zealand’s trade deficit widened
in August as exports declined to a nine-month low, led by milk,
butter and meat shipments and lower prices for products shipped
abroad.  The shortfall was NZ$437 million ($323 million), after a
revised NZ$183 million in July,  Statistics New Zealand  said
today in Wellington. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of nine economists was for a NZ$417 million deficit.  Falling exports add to signs that New Zealand’s expansion
has moderated, held back by declining business confidence and
slowing economies overseas even before counting the impact of
the worst earthquake in eight decades. Central bank Governor
 Alan Bollard  has little incentive to resume raising interest
rates, economist  Mark Smith  said.  “Today’s data reaffirms the case for the Reserve Bank to
remain on the sidelines until global developments improve,”
said Smith, an economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington.
“The extent of the fall in export values was weaker than we had
expected. The weakening trend in commodity export prices
suggests there could be more to come.” Smith expects the
Reserve Bank of New Zealand to keep its benchmark rate unchanged
until March.  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed after the report,
buying 73.91 U.S. cents at 11:50 a.m. in Wellington from 73.90
cents immediately before the report.  ‘Bumpy’ Growth  The economy grew 0.2 percent in the three months ended June
30, according to government figures published this month.
Finance Minister  Bill English  said last week the recovery “will
be bumpy at times” after second-quarter growth unexpectedly
weakened.  Bollard on Sept. 16 left the official cash rate at 3
percent. The RBNZ next meets on Oct. 28.  August’s trade shortfall was still smaller than the NZ$717
million deficit recorded in the same month a year earlier. As a
result, the trade surplus for the 12 months through August 2010
widened to NZ$866 million. Economists expected a NZ$869 million
surplus.  The monthly figures aren’t seasonally adjusted.  Exports 
fell 12 percent from July to NZ$3.15 billion, led by dairy
products and meat, today’s report showed. New Zealand’s milk,
wool and meat production typically peak in May.  Commodity Prices  Prices of commodity exports dropped for a third month in
August, declining 1.4 percent, according to an index calculated
by ANZ National.  Milk powder, butter and cheese exports, which make up a
fifth of overseas sales, slumped 33 percent from July. Meat
sales dropped 31 percent. Shipments of fruit and crude oil also
fell. Wine sales increased.  Imports  declined 4.1 percent from July to NZ$3.59 billion,
the first drop in four months. Crude oil purchases fell to the
lowest since February as the volume imported declined 22 percent.
Prices were little changed.  Purchases of consumption goods exceeded NZ$1 billion for
the first time since December 2008. Passenger car imports also
increased.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  