-- NFL, Packers Fans Boost Broadway’s $3 Million ‘Lombardi’ Drama
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/nfl-green-bay-packers-fans-boost-broadway-s-3-million-lombardi-drama.html
The new Broadway play “ Lombardi ,”
about the revered football coach  Vince Lombardi , needs no
introduction to one demographic: expatriate fans of his Green
Bay Packers.  “He’s a bigger deal than the pope,” said Jim Clarahan, a
51-year-old management consultant, at  Kettle of Fish , a
Greenwich Village bar that broadcasts Packers games.  Matt Giordano, a 23-year-old accountant, added: “I’m not
big on plays, but I’ll see it.”  The biographical drama began previews on Thursday at  Circle
in the Square Theatre . It’s by Los Angeles writer and director
 Eric Simonson , drawn from  David Maraniss’s  best-selling 1999
biography, “When Pride Still Mattered.”  “I didn’t write a play about football,” Simonson said.
“I wrote a play about a guy trying to be perfect. And he wasn’t
able to achieve it.” That story, according to the producers,
should attract more than just football fans to the theater.  “Some people say it’s risky to bring a show about football
to Broadway,” said  Tony Ponturo , a “Lombardi” producer. “We
salivate about bringing in new customers.”  Brooklyn-Born  The one-act drama is set primarily in November 1965, seven
years after the Brooklyn-born coach arrives in Green Bay,
Wisconsin. When we meet Lombardi (Dan Lauria), he’s transformed
the mediocre team by applying football and management insights
honed in coaching positions back East.  “In three seasons, Vince Lombardi turned those perpetual
losers into perennial winners,” a fictional journalist named
Michael McCormick (Keith Nobbs) tells the audience.  “But then came two seasons of second-place finishes,” the
journalist says, “which for Coach Lombardi was completely
unacceptable.”  Lombardi mixes it up with his wife, the reporter (writing
for the now-defunct Look magazine) and his team, represented by
three actors. He guides, goads and strategizes, at once
inspiring and controlling.  He also struggles with the increasing influence of agents
in football and, more broadly, young Americans’ antipathy to
authority.  “The world was changing around him,” Simonson said. “And
he didn’t get it.”  Female Appeal?  Ponturo and producing partner  Fran Kirmser  say the play
appeals to women and men, fans and non-fans alike. One-third of
the women surveyed in a 2004 Harris Poll identified football as
their favorite spectator sport, according to the National
Football League.  “Lombardi” was capitalized at just over $3 million,
according to an April filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Ponturo, who ran sports marketing for Anheuser-Busch
Cos. until 2008, when it was purchased by  InBev NV , contacted
NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  about co-producing. The league
provided uniforms, helped with marketing and provided film clips
and Lombardi memorabilia. (Although the league has a producing
credit, it had no say in the content of the play.)  With the cooperation of Maraniss and the NFL, “we know
we’re getting it right,” Kirmser said.  Robyn Goodman , a Broadway producer who isn’t involved in
this show, sees it as a test of whether a title appealing
primarily to men can succeed. Women are two-thirds of the
Broadway audience and make most ticket-purchasing decisions,
according to a recent survey by the  Broadway League , the
industry’s trade group.  “History shows that women buy the tickets and drag their
husbands to the theater,” Goodman said. “Will it work the
other way around?”  At 50th St. and Eighth Ave. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.lombardibroadway.com/   To contact the writer on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 