-- Nigeria Plans Sukuk Debut Targeting Role as Shariah Hub: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2010-09-28T11:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/nigeria-plans-sukuk-debut-targeting-role-as-shariah-hub-islamic-finance.html
Nigeria, Africa’s second-largest
economy and home to 75 million Muslims, plans to sell its first
Islamic debt within 12 months as part of a bid to become the
continent’s center for Shariah-compliant financing.  “Nigeria will be the Islamic hub by 2020,” central bank
Governor Lamido Sanusi said in a Sept. 24 telephone interview
from the capital, Abuja. The government has yet to decide on a
size for the sukuk sale, he said.  The West African country, which holds the eighth-highest
crude oil reserves among  OPEC members , is seeking to diversify
the economy by developing its finance industry. Gross domestic
product may grow 7.78 percent in 2010, accelerating from 6.96
percent last year, driven by non-oil industries such as
agriculture, Sanusi said Sept. 21.  The central bank bailed out 10 banks last year with 620
billion naira ($4.1 billion) to prevent a collapse of the
financial system, and is now pushing for the takeover of some
banks and the merger of others. Global assets held by Shariah-
compliant financial institutions may climb to $1.6 trillion in
2012 from about $1 trillion today, the  Islamic Financial
Services Board  said in April.  International sales of Islamic debt, which comply with the
religion’s ban on interest by paying asset-based returns,
declined 24 percent to $10.7 billion so far this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance is rebounding after
Dubai World, one of the emirates’ three main state-controlled
holding companies, reached an agreement this month with
creditors to change terms on $24.9 billion of debt.  Yield Spreads  The spread between the average yield for global sukuk and
the London interbank offered rate shrank 67 basis points to 376
this quarter, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk
Index . Shariah-compliant bonds returned 4.9 percent in the
period, according to the index. Debt in developing markets
gained 7.5 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global
Diversified Index  shows.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s dollar
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 has narrowed 34 basis points to 378 this month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Dubai’s 6.396
percent sukuk maturing in November 2014 rose 1 basis point to
6.43 percent today, the data show.  ‘Backward-Mentality’  Nigeria’s population, which is 50 percent Muslim, “remains
largely unbanked,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa research at
Standard Chartered Bank Plc in London, wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions yesterday. “So yes, Nigeria has the right
demographics to emerge as a hub for Islamic banking in Sub-
Saharan Africa.”  Nigeria’s efforts contrast with those of Egypt, which, with
71 million, also has one of the biggest Muslim populations in
Africa, according to the CIA World Factbook. The  Egyptian
Financial Supervisory Authority  plans to issue regulations that
will allow companies to issue Sukuk by the end of the year,
Chairman Ziad Bahaa El-Din said in a telephone interview in
Cairo today.  Youssef Ibrahim, director of Al-Azhar University’s Saleh
Kamel Center for Islamic Finance in Cairo said Egypt’s
government hasn’t encouraged investment in the sector.  “We have a backward-mentality when it comes to Islamic
finance,” he said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Bank Guidelines  Nigeria, which drafted Islamic banking guidelines last
year, has lowered the initial capital requirement for national
Islamic banks to 10 billion naira from 25 billion naira. It also
granted a license to Nigeria’s first Islamic bank,  Jaiz
International Bank . The bank may begin operations in the fourth
quarter, Sanusi said last week. He expects the nation to have as
many as three Islamic banks by the end of 2011.  The country in a “few weeks” will issue guidelines to
allow conventional banks to open so-called Islamic windows and
subsidiaries, Sanusi said. “There is a very strong desire among
the population for Islamic financial products.”  Nigeria is rated B+, the fourth-highest non-investment
grade, by Standard and Poor’s and has a BB- from Fitch Ratings.  Nigeria’s bond “will generate some interest among Persian
Gulf investors because of a lack of sovereign borrowers in the
sukuk market,”  Naji Nabaa , a Dubai-based associate director of
fixed-income sales for the Middle East and North Africa at
Exotix Ltd., an investment bank specializing in illiquid assets,
said by telephone yesterday. “Nigeria isn’t a country Middle
Eastern investors know much about, but they’d be interested in
buying it if the yields and price are attractive enough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  