-- Ningbo Port Drops on Debut After $1.1 Billion IPO
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-28T09:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/ningbo-port-falls-on-shanghai-debut-after-1-1-billion-initial-share-sale.html
Ningbo Port Co. , operator of the
world’s second-busiest harbor, fell in its debut on the Shanghai
stock exchange because of concern that a trade slowdown in China
may damp traffic growth.  Ningbo Port dropped 3.5 percent to 3.57 yuan at the 3 p.m.
close in Shanghai trading, from its initial public offering
price of 3.70 yuan. The port operator raised 7.4 billion yuan
($1.1 billion) in the IPO, China’s sixth-largest this year.  The Zhejiang, eastern China-based company, which operates a
harbor 90 miles south of Shanghai, pared its share sale by 20
percent as concern over easing trade volume sapped demand.
China’s export growth may slow to 15 percent next year as waning
consumer sentiment in the U.S. and Europe will cut demand for
Asian-made goods, said  Ji Min , an analyst at China Merchants
Securities Co. in Shenzhen.  “A possible slowdown in China’s export growth next year
doesn’t bode well for container volume,” Ji said. Chinese
exports jumped 35.5 percent in the first eight months, according
to the Beijing-based customs office.  The port operator plans to use proceeds from the IPO to
build coal and container berths.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  declined 0.6 percent today and
has fallen 20 percent this year as the Chinese government
imposes tightening measures to cool growth and inflation.  “Sentiment is bearish in China’s equity market,” said
 Wang Li , an analyst at Guodu Securities Co. “Investors also
have concerns about the potential of the port, which has seen
most of its growth.”  Shanghai International Port (Group) Co. , operator of the
world’s busiest harbor, fell 1.9 percent to 4.17 yuan. The
company has lost 28 percent this year.  Ningbo and neighboring Zhoushan port together handled 423
million tons of cargo in the first eight months of the year and
Shanghai moved 372 million tons, according to the Ministry of
Communications. The ministry doesn’t issue separate data for
Ningbo.  -- Li Xiaowei . Editors:  Neil Denslow ,  Lena Lee .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Xiaowei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7506 or
 Xli12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  