-- Novozymes Loses U.S. Court Bid to Halt Danisco Biofuel Enzyme on Patent
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2010-09-28T08:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/novozymes-loses-u-s-court-bid-to-halt-danisco-biofuel-enzyme-on-patent.html
Novozymes A/S  lost a U.S. court bid
to prevent  Danisco A/S  from selling an enzyme used in biofuel
production until a trial can be held on patent-infringement
claims.  U.S. District Judge  Barbara Crabb  in Madison, Wisconsin,
rejected arguments by Novozymes that Danisco would cause
irreparable damages to Novozymes’ market share unless it was
halted. Danisco is able to make financial compensation if it
ultimately loses the case, the judge ruled, according to the
document dated Sept. 24. There’s still a “substantial question”
about the validity of the Novozymes patent, the judge said.  Novozymes contends its smaller Danish rival infringes a
patent on an alpha amylase enzyme that remains active in high
temperatures. The two companies are the world’s biggest makers
of enzymes that break down organic material, such as grain and
corn, to form bioethanol, which is used as an alternative to
fossil fuels.  Novozymes has “not shown that they are likely to lose a
significant amount of additional market share between now and
trial,” Crabb wrote. “The accused products had been on the
market for more than two years” when the patent was issued.  Danisco dominated the market until 1999, when Novozymes
began selling its Liquozyme enzyme, according to Crabb’s ruling.
At one point, Liquozyme accounted for 80 percent of the market,
before Danisco introduced a new product called GC358. Liquozyme
now has about 60 percent of the market, the judge said.  ‘Gratified’  “We are gratified and very pleased about the court’s
ruling in denying preliminary injunction and maintaining the
rights of consumers to access the most innovative technologies
available in an open marketplace,” Soonhee Jang, chief
intellectual property counsel at Danisco’s Genencor unit, said
by e-mail. “But we’re mindful that this decision is just a
preliminary step in a very long and complicated legal process,”  The judge also said it wasn’t in the public’s best interest
for Danisco to be ordered off the market, since Novozymes said
Liquozyme doesn’t use the invention covered by the patent. She
said it was “inconsistent” for  Novozymes  to argue that the
patent “represents an important new invention” and then say it
would make no difference if no one is allowed to use it.  “The legal standard for obtaining a preliminary injunction
is higher than the legal standard Novozymes must meet at trial,
and as such preliminary injunctions are rarely given,”
Annegrethe Jakobsen, a spokeswoman for Novozymes, said by e-
mail. “We believe we will ultimately prevail at the trial,
which is scheduled for the fall of 2011.”  Danisco, based in Copenhagen, paid Novozymes $15.3 million
to settle a 2007 patent dispute over another enzyme used in
ethanol production. In that case, Novozymes won after first
being denied a preliminary injunction.  In a separate case, Danisco filed a U.K. patent-
infringement lawsuit against Novozymes over an unspecified
enzyme on July 19.  The case is Novozymes A/S, et al v. Danisco A/S, et al, 10-
cv-251, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gelu Sulugiuc  in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net ;
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 