-- Obama Returns to College Campus in Election Appeal to `Fire Up' Students
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-09-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/obama-takes-to-road-to-appeal-to-hispanics-students-ahead-of-midterm-vote.html
President  Barack Obama  urged
thousands of college students at a campaign-style rally last
night to “stay fired up” and help Democrats hold back a
Republican surge in November’s congressional elections.  Obama returned to the  University of Wisconsin  in Madison
seeking to energize a voting base that he used to help propel
his campaign for president and direct it toward the party’s
candidates for the House and Senate.  “We need you to stay fired up,” Obama said at the event,
which was broadcast to more than 200 other campuses. “We face
another test and the stakes could not be higher.”  Wisconsin was the second stop in a four-state trip by the
president to promote his policies and drum up support for
Democratic candidates. Earlier in the day he talked with voters
in New Mexico, where two Democratic House members elected on
Obama’s coattails in 2008 are facing re-election.  The president and other members of his administration have
been attempting to combat apathy in a midterm election year when
turnout typically lags.  Obama told the Madison crowd that political analysts are
predicting a Democratic “bloodletting” in the elections
because his supporters have lost their enthusiasm.  “They’re basically saying you’re apathetic, you’re
disappointed,” he said. “We cannot let that happen. We cannot
sit this out.”  Election Outlook  The stakes are high for Obama and the Democrats.
Republicans need a net gain of 39 seats to gain a majority in
the 435-member House of Representatives. The non-partisan Cook
Political Report in Washington forecasts Republicans will gain
at least 40 seats after November’s election. In the Senate,
where Republicans hold 41 of 100 seats, the Cook report says
they are poised to pick up from seven to nine seats.  Graham Wilson , a Boston University political science
professor and author of books on American politics, said Obama’s
visit to the University of Wisconsin, a long-time bastion of
Democratic support, is an indication of the party’s concerns
before the election.  “If a Democratic president needs to go to Madison to get
a crowd, that’s worrying for him,” Wilson said in an e-mail.  Obama attracted more than 25,000 people to last night’s
rally, according to Sue Riseling, chief of the University of
Wisconsin police department. Obama drew a crowd of 19,000 people
when he appeared in Madison during the primary campaign in
February 2008.  New Mexico Event  Earlier yesterday, Obama told the Albuquerque audience his
policies have had “some success” in helping pull the U.S. out
of the worst recession since the 1930s and that improving the
nation’s education system is crucial to long-term prosperity.
Republicans, Obama warned, would unravel that progress.  “I hope everybody is going to pay attention and do their
homework and find out about candidates,” he said. “This
election coming up in November is going to offer a choice on a
whole range of different issues.”  He said Republicans would cut education funding by as much
as 20 percent to pay for tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans
as part of their “Pledge to America” plan for the
congressional elections. He repeated that caution to the
Wisconsin students.  “I just want everybody to think about those kinds of
issues as you go into the polling place in November,” Obama
said in Albuquerque. “Nothing’s going to be more important in
terms of our long-term success” than education.  Iowa and Virginia  Later today Obama will have events in Iowa and Virginia.  Last night’s gathering in Madison is the first of four such
rallies planned to aid Democratic Party effort to get young
voters to the polls for the November elections.  “Every single one of you is a shareholder in that mission
of rebuilding our country and reclaiming our future,” Obama
said during the rally. “We are bringing about change and
progress is going to come, but you’ve got to stick with me. You
can’t lose heart.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Madison, Wisconsin, at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  