-- Obama Says Schools Are Key to Growth, Republicans Would Reverse Progress
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-09-28T18:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/obama-says-schools-are-key-to-growth-republicans-would-reverse-progress.html
President  Barack Obama , on the
first stop of a four-state trip to promote his policies and
boost Democratic candidates, criticized Republicans on
education, immigration and the budget.  The president said his policies have had “some success”
in helping pull the U.S. out of the worst recession since the
1930s and that improving the nation’s education system is
crucial to long-term prosperity. He told a group of residents in
Albuquerque, New Mexico, that Republicans would reverse the
progress that’s been made.  “We’re making progress, we’re moving in the right
direction” on the economy, Obama said at a question-and-answer
session in the backyard of a private home.  He said future progress depends on improving schools and he
accused Republicans of calling for cuts of as much as 20 percent
in education funding in order to pay for tax cuts for the
wealthiest Americans as part of their “Pledge to America” plan
for the congressional elections.  “I just want everybody to think about those kinds of
issues as you go into the polling place in November,” Obama
told the group of area residents. “Nothing’s going to be more
important in terms of our long-term success” than education.  Later today, he is scheduled to fly to a campaign-style
rally at the University of Wisconsin in Madison that will be
simulcast to other campuses, in a bid to boost turnout among
young voters who helped propel his presidential campaign.
Tomorrow, he’ll have backyard economy events in Iowa and
Virginia.  Top Campaign Issue  The economy is the top issue in the election Nov. 2, in
which Republicans are seeking to overturn the Democratic
majorities in the House and Senate. U.S. consumer confidence
fell in September to the lowest level in seven months as
Americans became more pessimistic about the labor market, with
the unemployment rate forecast to exceed 9 percent through 2011.  In response to questions from his audience, Obama said the
growing economy eventually will strengthen the housing market.
As it does, he said, Americans will have to return to more
“traditional” approaches to buying and owning a home.  To avoid another boom-and-bust cycle in housing, Americans
must go back to thinking about their houses as residences rather
than investments that will only rise in value, he said. That
includes having to “save for a while” to come up with a down
payment and being realistic about affordability, he said.  “We have to have a different attitude,” he said.  Immigration  He also addressed immigration policy, an issue that has a
high priority in New Mexico, where about 45 percent of the
population is Hispanic.  Obama said the nation’s immigration system must be
overhauled in a way that the process for entry is “orderly and
fair.”  While the U.S. has a tradition of welcoming immigrants from
around the world, Obama said the nation’s borders must be secure
and the system for entry into the country must ensure that those
who come to the U.S. are following the law.  Obama repeated his vow to continue pushing for changes in
immigration laws.  Tonight’s event in Madison will be the first of four such
rallies seeking to get young voters to the polls for the
November elections. Obama targeted college students in his
presidential campaign.  Rallying Supporters  “The reason we’re going to Madison is because I want to
send a message to young people across the country about how
important this election is,” Obama told college journalists on
a conference call yesterday. “You can’t sit it out, you can’t
just suddenly check in once every 10 years or so on an exciting
presidential election.”  While the administration bills the trip as a series of
events to talk about policy rather than a campaign trip, White
House Communications Director  Dan Pfeiffer  said Obama will be
taking aim at Republicans in all four states.  Obama plans to “highlight specific areas” of the
Republican “Pledge to America,” and argue that following the
plan “would be irresponsible and be a mistake,” Pfeiffer told
reporters yesterday.  The stakes are high for Obama and the Democrats.
Republicans need a net gain of 39 seats to gain a majority in
the 435-member House of Representatives. The non-partisan Cook
Political Report in Washington forecasts Republicans will gain
at least 40 seats after November’s election. In the Senate,
where Republicans hold 41 of 100 seats, the Cook report says
they are poised to pick up from seven to nine seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Albuquerque at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  