-- Moelis Said to Plan Acquisition of Gracie Credit to Add First Hedge Fund
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2010-09-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/moelis-said-to-plan-gracie-credit-opportunities-purchase-to-add-hedge-fund.html
Moelis & Co., the New York-based
investment bank founded by  Kenneth Moelis , plans to buy the $2
billion Gracie Credit Opportunities Fund to expand into hedge
funds, according to two people briefed on the talks.  Gracie, headed by founder  Daniel Nir , will operate
independently of Moelis, the people said. The deal price wasn’t
known, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the negotiations are private.  Pen Pendleton , a spokesman for Moelis, and  Dan Gagnier , a
spokesman for New York-based Gracie, declined to comment.  Investment banks are adding to their asset-management
businesses to diversify revenue sources after the financial
crisis that froze credit markets in mid-2007. In March, New
York-based  Evercore Partners Inc. , founded by former U.S. Deputy
Treasury Secretary  Roger Altman , agreed to buy a 49 percent
stake in money-manager  Atalanta Sosnoff Capital LLC , also based
in New York, for as much as $83.3 million in cash and stock.  Nir founded his firm as Gracie Capital in 1999 and opened
the Credit Opportunities Fund in 2004. The fund has averaged
gains of about 13 percent a year since inception, according to
the people.  Nir liquidated a Gracie fund in 2008 that focused on
companies going through mergers and other corporate events.  Gracie executives will get a stake in Moelis’s firm, and
Nir has agreed to stay on for at least two years, the people
said. Gracie partners  James Palmisciano ,  Manbir Singh ,  Michael Robertson  and  Alex Koundourakis  will remain for at least five
years, according to the people. Gracie has 30 employees,
including 18 investment professionals.  Moelis, 52, started his firm three years ago after quitting
his job at Zurich’s UBS AG, where ran investment banking.  Moelis & Co. runs a private-equity fund in addition to
advising companies on mergers and restructurings. Private-equity
firms pool investor money to take over companies, financing the
purchases mostly with debt, with the intention of selling them
later for a profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  