-- Lohan's Dull Rolls-Royce Marks Shift to Luxury Cars in Matte
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2010-09-29T11:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/lohan-s-dull-rolls-royce-marks-shift-to-cool-matte-finished-luxury-cars.html
When U.S. actress  Lindsay Lohan 
stepped out of a black Rolls-Royce  Phantom  last year, her car
wasn’t bearing the traditional hand-buffed shine.  Lohan’s choice of a matte-finished vehicle from  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG ’s ultra-luxury brand underscored an emerging
trend in the luxury auto industry.  “Matte cars are cool,” said  Sebastian Vettel , the 23-
year-old driver for Red Bull’s team who has won seven Formula
One races. “They come across as a bit aggressive.”  Dull paintjobs will feature at the Paris Motor Show this
week as never before, with image-conscious drivers seeking to
rise above the glossy masses.  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz will
show six matte cars including the 187,425 euro ($255,000) gull-
wing SLS in cashmere white, while BMW will present a 69,400 euro
M3 sedan in frozen gray.  Matte cars, which stand out on city streets by deflecting
the glow of animated billboards and flashing neon, have a long-
standing association with speed.  BMW ’s aluminum-clad 328 sports
car, which won the Mille Miglia race in 1940, was unpolished to
reduce glare for the driver.  While matte cars have been growing in numbers by applying
vinyl foils over the finish, dull paints are a new phenomenon on
modern cars because they are technically more complex than
standard high-gloss paints and can be difficult to repair.
They’re also pricey, with  Volkswagen AG ’s Lamborghini charging
as much as 20,000 euros for a matte finish.  Lamborghini Options  The cost hasn’t deterred wealthy buyers seeking
exclusivity. Lamborghini sells 10 percent of the Murcielago and
as much as 3 percent of the Gallardo model with matte finishes,
spokesman  Raffaello Porro  said. Its dull paintjobs start at
10,000 euros and come in black, brown, white and yellow.  Luxury-car sales are rebounding from the financial crisis,
when wealthy consumers held back on flashy purchases. Driven by
a recovery in the U.S. and growth in China, BMW and  Mercedes  are
each targeting 10 percent sales gains this year. VW’s Audi brand
forecasts record sales in 2010, while Rolls-Royce expects to
double sales on demand for the less-conspicuous Ghost, which
came to market late last year. Flat finishes fit this shift to
more understated luxury.  “The consumption is there but it’s not quite as loud and
obnoxious,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst with IHS
Automotive based in Lexington, Massachusetts.  Different Look  Mercedes customers order matte paint, which costs between
4,200 euros and 5,400 euros, on as much as 3 percent of SL
roadsters and CLS coupes, spokeswoman  Verena Mueller  said.  “The texture is so much different, which makes the shape
much different because the light changes the way you look at
it,” said Gorden Wagener, Mercedes-Benz’s design chief, who
currently drives a matte red CLS with a white leather interior.
“It’s a completely different look, more technical.”  Mercedes’ matte paint program started in 2004 with a
limited series of the CLK convertible designed by  Giorgio Armani . Other special editions followed in 2005 and 2009. The
SLS, introduced earlier this year, was the first to offer dull
colors as a standard option.  The automaker, based in Stuttgart, Germany, offers matte
finishes on other models through its customization program. The
world’s second-largest luxury-car maker expects growing demand
for matte paints and plans to offer flat colors on all its model
lines in the future, Wagener said.  ‘Frozen’ Colors  Still, matte car buyers risk getting sucked into a fad,
which could backfire if trends change. “It’s a brave choice,
when you’re spending that amount of money,” said  Colin Couchman , a London-based IHS analyst.  BMW  began offering “frozen” gray and black on the M3 this
year, as an option that costs about 3,000 euros. The world’s
largest maker of luxury cars introduced a special version of the
Z4 roadster in April to commemorate the 1940 victory in the
Mille Miglia. The Z4 edition, available only in Italy, simulates
a matte paint with a foil, a technique used to dim glare.  “When you have a matte surface, you see nothing but the
shape, nothing but the form,”  Adrian van Hooydonk , BMW chief
designer, said at the carmaker’s Munich headquarters. “When you
have a high-gloss surface, the whole world reflects in it. Some
people may find the colors a little more distinct, while others
might find them a little more subtle.”  Audi R8 GT  Lohan, the 24-year-old actress who went to jail for a brief
period earlier this month after failing a court-ordered drug
test, wasn’t available to comment, according to her publicist.  Audi, which aims to overtake BMW in luxury-car sales by
2015, will offer its first-ever flat finish with the R8 GT
sports car in early 2011, spokesman  Eric Felber  said. Customers
will be able to order the R8 GT, a special edition limited to
333 vehicles, in matte gray at a price of 193,000 euros. The
flat finish adds 4,300 euros to the cost.  “We’ve been noticing growing demand for matte finishes,”
Felber said. “But it’s still relatively costly and quite
difficult to buff out scratches. That’s why we’re starting with
a limited-edition model.”  Not all manufacturers of high-performance cars are fans of
flat colors.  Porsche SE , the maker of the 911 sports car,
doesn’t offer dull finishes because of concerns about the
paint’s durability.  “The quality of matte finishes available does not yet
satisfy the standards we have at Porsche,” spokesman Hermann-
Josef Stappen said, explaining that flat paints haven’t been
fully developed yet and can be damaged by car-wash brushes.  The dull look also isn’t for everybody.  “It won’t take over in the sense that now all of a sudden
all of the world will have matte-colored cars,” van Hooydonk
said. “The overriding association with expensive luxury
products is still that they need to be shiny.”  That’s just fine for drivers like Vettel, who finished
second last weekend at the Singapore Grand Prix, looking for a
car with distinction.  “Since you don’t see them too often, they’re a bit more
special,” he said. “The look is very trendy at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Reiter  in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 