-- Tokio Marine, MS&AD, NKSJ Said to Face More Oversight of Overseas Business
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2010-09-29T06:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/tokio-marine-ms-ad-nksj-said-to-face-more-oversight-of-overseas-business.html
Japan’s financial regulator will
increase oversight on nonlife insurers including  Tokio Marine
Holdings Inc.  to limit risks associated with their overseas
expansion, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  The Financial Services Agency will require insurers that
have grown abroad through acquisitions or by opening regional
offices to provide estimates for the maximum losses those
operations may incur, the people said, speaking on condition of
anonymity as no announcement has been made.  Japan’s three biggest casualty insurers --  MS&AD Insurance
Group Holdings Inc. , Tokio Marine and  NKSJ Holdings Inc.  -- are
pushing into overseas markets as a stagnant economy and a
shrinking population hurt profits at home.  Tokio Marine  paid
$4.7 billion for Philadelphia Consolidated Holding Corp. in
December 2008, the biggest overseas takeover by a Japanese
insurer.  “The insurers can’t expect a lot from the domestic market
to give them a sizable business growth in the coming years,”
said  Natsumu Tsujino , a Tokyo-based analyst who covers the
financial industry at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “Beefed-up
supervision would give a sense of reassurance to insurers’
shareholders.”  Tokio Marine  shares  added 0.1 percent to 2,311 yen at the 3
p.m. close of Tokyo Stock Exchange trading.  MS&AD  advanced 1.1
percent to 1,983 yen, while  NKSJ  fell 0.4 percent to 541 yen.  Oversight Powers  Regulators have moved to limit banks’ risk-taking to avert
a repeat of the financial crisis that sparked a global
recession. Earlier this year, the watchdog stepped up oversight
on investment banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Morgan
Stanley and  Nomura Holdings Inc.  by setting up a new unit to
scrutinize their risk-taking activities.  Insurers will also be required to state the maximum amount
of losses they can withstand from their overseas operations
before being forced to sell or close them, one of the people
said.  The regulator plans to set up a group of about 10 officials
including lawyers and actuaries in addition to an existing team
of 40 inspectors that oversees insurance companies, one of the
people said. It may also ask overseas counterparts to inspect
 Japanese insurers’  local units, the person said.  Hideyuki Ishii , Tokyo-based spokesman at Tokio Marine,
declined to comment on the regulator’s increased scrutiny, as
did Yuichi Murakami at MS&AD and Nobutaka Yasukawa, a spokesman
at NKSJ unit Sompo Japan Insurance Co. Toshiharu Mashita, a
spokesman at the Financial Services Agency, also declined to
comment.  Global Expansion  Tokio Marine boosted  profit  at its overseas businesses more
than eight-fold to 68.9 billion yen ($818 million) in the fiscal
year ended March 31 from the previous 12 months, according to
Ishii.  The company’s number of foreign affiliates more than
quadrupled to 49 companies in 13 countries including China and
Malaysia as of March 31 from 11 firms in eight nations four
years ago, Ishii said. Tokio Marine’s units and offices abroad
are located in 38 nations.  Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., a unit of MS&AD, set up a
new division in June responsible for overseeing risks at
overseas operations. The Tokyo-based insurer reported a loss of
36 billion yen from international businesses in the year to
March 31 because of deficits related to credit insurance deals
at its European unit, said Murakami.  Earnings Abroad  MS&AD aims to increase overseas profit to 30 billion yen,
or 20 percent of total earnings, by March 2014, Murakami said.
The company earned about 20 billion yen from abroad last fiscal
year, he said.  In March, MS&AD Insurance Group President  Toshiaki Egashira 
said the company is in talks with Chinese and Indian firms to
expand its life business as earnings growth stalls in Japan.  NKSJ, a holding company of Sompo Japan Insurance Inc. and
Nipponkoa Insurance Co., will spend 200 billion yen over the
next three years to expand overseas operations, Yasukawa said.
The insurer aims to boost  net income  from businesses abroad to
about 16 billion yen by March 2015 from 1.5 billion yen last
financial year, according to the firm.  Tokyo-based Sompo has 33 units overseas in more than 20
countries including the U.S., U.K., Brazil, China and Vietnam.  “Heightening their presence in the global market is vital
for Japanese insurers,” said Tsujino of JPMorgan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Shingo Kawamoto  at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 