-- Sterlite Tumbles After Getting Court Order to Shut Copper Smelter in India
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2010-09-28T08:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/olam-international-s-ceo-says-louis-dreyfus-merger-is-the-preferred-option.html
Olam International Ltd. , the
Singapore-based commodities trader, said merging with Louis
Dreyfus Commodities is its preferred option as talks for a tie-
up with the world’s largest rice and cotton trader continue.  “That would probably be the ideal outcome, but in this
process we will see how else we can collaborate,” Olam Chief
Executive Officer  Sunny Verghese  said today in an interview at a
conference in Sydney. “A merger would probably be a desired
outcome.”  The discussions are preliminary and the outcome is
uncertain, Verghese said. The two companies have been talking
“for a while,” he said. He declined to say which company
started the talks.  Olam said Sept. 24 it was in talks with closely held Louis
Dreyfus over “possible business collaboration, which may take
the form of, among others, a merger.” Agricultural companies
worldwide are seeking acquisitions to benefit from surging
demand for food led by China and India.  “It’s a good combination in terms of geography,” Verghese
said, referring to a possible merger with Louis Dreyfus. “It’s
very complementary in terms of businesses. These talks could
last six months, twelve months. It’s difficult to predict. In
these kinds of talks, it’s difficult to say where you are in the
process.”  Farming Investments  Louis Dreyfus Commodities , about 20 percent owned by its
employees, has offices in more than 55 countries, according to
its website.  Olam, which said in June it has $1 billion to spend on
acquisitions and investments, had sales of S$10.4 billion ($7.9
billion) last fiscal year. The agricultural commodities trader,
partly owned by  Temasek Holdings Pte , completed six acquisitions
worth more than $700 million in the past year to expand into
production and farming to augment its trading activities.  The two companies have cooperated before, with Louis
Dreyfus agreeing in 2007 to sell its 20 percent in Queensland
Cotton to Olam. Olam said at the time it would explore possible
partnerships with Dreyfus in non-cotton products.  The United Nations Food & Agriculture Organization’s global
 Food Price Index  surged in August to the highest level since
September 2008 as wheat and rice prices advanced after Russia,
the world’s third-largest wheat grower last year, banned exports
and flooding in Pakistan damaged rice crops, curbing supplies of
Asia’s two main staple grains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  