-- Home Prices Probably Cooled, U.S. Consumer Sentiment Off
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/home-prices-probably-cooled-u-s-confidence-restrained-by-unemployment.html
Gains in U.S. home prices probably
slowed in July and  consumer confidence  this month cooled,
restraining the biggest part of the economy, a pair of reports
may show today.  Property values  in 20 cities increased 3.1 percent in July
from the same month last year, less than the 4.2 percent gain in
the 12 months to June, according to the median forecast of 28
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Unemployment  close to a 26-year high, the absence of a
government incentive for buyers and an increase in foreclosures
are weighing on the housing market. Depressed home values and a
lack of employment opportunities may keep limiting confidence,
holding back consumer spending, which accounts for about 70
percent of the economy.  “Consumers are still stressed,” said  Michael Gregory , a
senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. Americans
are willing to spend “when you give them a big sales or a big
tax incentive. Short of that, consumers don’t want to spend.”  The home price data from S&P/Case-Shiller are scheduled to
be released at 9 a.m. Washington time. Estimates in the
Bloomberg News survey ranged from year-over-year gains of 2
percent to 4.2 percent.  The Conference Board in New York will issue its consumer
confidence figure at 10 a.m. Forecasts of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg ranged from 48 to 55, with a median of 52.1, after an
August reading of 53.5.  Home prices fell 0.1 percent in July from the prior month,
according to the Bloomberg survey, compared with a 0.3 percent
June advance.  Gauging Trend  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  A government tax credit of as much as $8,000 gave housing a
temporary lift in late 2009 and early this year and helped
prices stop falling. The incentive required contracts be signed
by the end of April. Since then, the industry has struggled,
helping explain why builder shares are depressed.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Homebuilding Index  has
declined 3.1 percent so far this year, compared with a 2.4
percent gain in the broader S&P 500.  Sales of  new homes  in August held at a 288,000 annual rate,
matching July as the second-lowest in data going back to 1963,
Commerce Department figures showed Sept. 24.  Unemployment Outlook  After averaging 9.3 percent in 2009, joblessness this year
will average 9.6 percent and 9.2 percent in 2011, according to
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg this
month. The last time unemployment exceeded 9 percent for three
consecutive years was from 1939 to 1941.  The lack of jobs is also one reason  foreclosures  are
climbing. Home seizures reached a record in August for the third
time in five months, RealtyTrac Inc. said Sept. 16.  The Obama administration said Aug. 30 it planned to
announce a proposal for an emergency loan program to help the
unemployed avoid default. The plan would also include a
government mortgage refinancing effort to lower monthly mortgage
payments for Americans facing foreclosure.  Orders at KB Home, a California builder focused on first-
time buyers, fell 39 percent after the deadline for signing a
contract to qualify for the federal tax credit expired. Rising
jobless rates and foreclosures make it difficult to forecast
future sales,  Jeffrey Mezger , the company’s chief executive
officer, said Sept. 24.  “The housing market continues to face significant
headwinds from high unemployment and foreclosures, which are
impeding a broader recovery, and recent net order trends in the
homebuilding industry have injected additional caution into our
near-term outlook,” Mezger said in a statement.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  