-- Hong Kong Stocks Fall as Developers Decline on China Real-Estate Concerns
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-09-28T08:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/hong-kong-s-stocks-fluctuate-as-developers-lenders-decline-chalco-gains.html
Hong Kong  stocks  fell, sending the
 Hang Seng Index  to its biggest drop in three weeks, as
developers and banks declined on concern the Chinese government
will take more steps to curb property prices.  China Resources Land Ltd. , a state-controlled developer,
dropped 3 percent after China Business News reported a new round
of measures to stem property speculation will happen “soon.”
Shanghai-based Bank of Communications Co., part-owned by HSBC
Holdings Plc, slid 1.8 percent. HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank,
declined 1.5 percent on concern European government finances are
worsening. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the nation’s biggest
producer of the metal, jumped 4.3 percent after its parent
announced a plan to invest in rare earths.  “Investors are concerned about the Chinese government’s
next move on property prices,” said  Michiya Tomita , a Hong
Kong-based fund manager for Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co.,
which holds $65 billion in assets. “Money is flowing into
small- and mid-cap stocks instead of developers.”  The  Hang Seng Index  fell 1 percent to 22,109.95 at the
close, the biggest drop since Sept. 8, after rising as much as
0.1 percent. About five stocks declined for each one that
advanced on the 45-member gauge. The Hang Seng has risen 1.1
percent this year. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of so-
called H shares of Chinese companies fell 1.1 percent to
12,180.20.  Property Tax  Developers with projects in China fell on concern the
government will introduce more property tightening measures.
China Resources Land declined 3 percent to HK$16.66. Guangzhou
R&F Properties Co., the biggest real-estate company in the
southern Chinese city, slipped 2.9 percent to HK$11.22.  Shimao
Property Holdings Ltd. , which receives all its sales from China,
sank 2.1 percent to HK$13.14. A measure of property shares had
the biggest drop among the Hang Seng’s four industry groups.  Banks based in China also declined. Bank of Communications
slid 1.8 percent to HK$8.34. Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd., the nation’s biggest lender, retreated 0.9 percent
to HK$5.85.  Bank of China Ltd. , the fourth-largest, lost 0.7
percent to HK$4.04.  China will announce a new round of measures “soon,”
targeting second and third home loans, the China Business News
reported today, citing an unidentified person.  Separately, relevant Chinese government departments may
jointly agree to trials for a property tax, the Shanghai
Securities News reported, without citing anyone.  Irish Fallout  The Hang Seng Index has surged 16 percent from its low this
year on May 25 as positive corporate earnings and economic
reports from the U.S. and Asia overshadowed concerns about
China’s measures to curb property prices and Europe’s debt
crisis. Stocks in the gauge trade at an average 14.2 times
 estimated profit , compared with 17.2 times at the start of 2010.  HSBC dropped 1.5 percent to HK$80.35.  Cosco Pacific Ltd. ,
which operates container facilities at Greece’s Piraeus port,
sank 2.2 percent to HK$11.76. Esprit Holdings Ltd., which got 85
percent of its fiscal 2009 revenue from Europe, retreated 1.3
percent to HK$42.45.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.4 percent
today. The index dropped 0.6 percent yesterday in New York.
Financial companies declined as the extra yield investors
demanded to buy Irish 10-year bonds instead of Germany’s bunds
widened to a record.  TV Investment  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.’s senior debt was cut to the lowest
investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service, which said it may
reduce the rating for the Dublin-based firm to junk unless the
government guarantees bondholders against losses.  “European debt concerns will linger and that clouds the
pace of the global economic recovery,” said  Hiroshi Morikawa , a
strategist in Tokyo at MU Investments, which manages about $14
billion in assets. “It will take a long time to solve the
issue.”  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. , the nation’s second-largest
wireless operator, tumbled 4.3 percent to HK$11.20, the biggest
drop on the Hang Seng Index, after saying a unit sold $1.84
billion worth of convertible bonds maturing in 2015.  Television Broadcasts Ltd. , Hong Kong’s biggest TV company,
plunged 5.8 percent to HK$43.80 on speculation that a potential
investment by Henderson Land Development Co. Vice-Chairman Lee
Ka-kit won’t trigger a wider takeover offer. Lee, son of
billionaire founder  Lee Shau-kee , is studying a plan to buy a
stake in TVB, the property developer said yesterday.  Chalco Expansion  Among stocks that rose, Aluminum Corp., known as Chalco,
jumped 4.3 percent to HK$7.32 after its parent announced a plan
to invest at least 10 billion yuan ($1.5 billion) in copper,
iron ore and rare earths. Chalco yesterday agreed to build a
rare-earth production base in Jiangxi province with a local
partner. It was the biggest gain on the Hang Seng Index and the
largest contributor to the gauge.  China Rare Earth Holdings Ltd. , a processor of minerals
used in iPod music players and liquid-crystal displays, soared
9.2 percent to HK$3.44, the highest level on record.  China, which controls more than 90 percent of the rare-
earths market, in July cut export quotas to bolster prices and
ensure domestic supplies of the minerals also used in wind
turbines.  Separately, the New York Times reported on Sept. 23 that
China’s government put an embargo on sales of rare earths to
Japan amid a dispute over Japan’s detention of a Chinese
fishing-boat captain.  Japanese Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said today China had
instituted a de facto ban on rare-earth exports that may have a
“big impact” on Japan’s economy.  “The political tension between China and Japan brought
attention to the importance of rare earths,” Mitsubishi UFJ’s
Tomita said.  Futures on the Hang Seng Index fell 1.1 percent to 22,125.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 