-- Hong Kong Builders May Offer Buyers Financing as City's Curbs Erode Sales
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-09-28T02:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/hong-kong-developers-may-offer-financing-as-government-curbs-erode-sales.html
Hong Kong  developers  may offer
property buyers secondary financing to counter government
market-cooling efforts that have cut  transactions  by about a
third, the city’s two biggest real-estate brokers said.  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. , the builder controlled by
billionaire Li Ka-shing, is providing buyers at its Oceanaire
project in the Ma On Shan district in the city’s north with as
much as 10 percent additional financing on top of their bank
mortgages, the company said in a Sept. 21 statement.  Home transactions  in the city have contracted about 33
percent since Aug. 13 when the government raised down-payment
ratios and pledged to increase land supply to rein in home
prices, according to Centaline Property Agency Ltd. The
government has said it may introduce more measures to curb home
values that have surged about 47 percent in 21 months to the
highest since the last peak in 1997.  “These are almost standard practices by developers
whenever transactions slow,” said  Wong Leung-sing , research
director at Centaline. “The rest are probably just waiting to
see if there’s any backlash against Cheung Kong from the
government. It’s only a matter of time before they join in.”  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. , Hong Kong’s biggest developer,
will this week begin marketing in Shenzhen, the southern Chinese
city across the border from Hong Kong, the Valais, a luxury
housing project in the New Territories, the company said in an
e-mailed press release on Sept. 21. Victor Lui, an executive
director of the company’s agency arm, didn’t immediately return
calls seeking comment.  Bonnie Ngan, a spokeswoman for  Henderson Land Development
Co. , said in a phone interview the company has been offering
buyers secondary mortgages on almost all its projects.  Lending Rates  The HKMA, the city’s de facto central bank, has no
authority over developers’ lending practices, spokeswoman Anissa
Wong said Sept. 24. The authority requires banks to take
borrowers’ secondary mortgages into account while calculating
repayment abilities, she said.  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the performance
of the city’s seven biggest developers, fell 0.4 percent as of
10:24 a.m. local time.  Buyers can borrow as much as 10 percent of a property’s
value from a subsidiary of Cheung Kong, subject to approval by
their primary mortgage lender, according to the company’s
statement. The Hong Kong-based developer will charge interest of
3 percent below the prime lending rate for the first year and
the prime rate thereafter.  Hong Kong banks on average charge mortgage customers as low
as 0.7 percentage point above the one-month Hong Kong interbank
offered rate, which is currently at about 0.23 percent, for the
first year. The prime rate in Hong Kong is between 5 percent and
5.25 percent.  Cooling Measures  Newly approved mortgage loans fell 1.3 percent in August to
HK$40.3 billion ($5.2 billion), the Hong Kong Monetary Authority
said yesterday on its website.  The government is closely monitoring the city’s property
market and may introduce further measures to contain prices if
they continue to escalate, Ming Pao said Sept. 1, citing
Financial Secretary John Tsang.  The HKMA on Aug. 13 raised down payments for homes costing
HK$12 million or more and on all investment properties by 10
percentage points to 40 percent.  Developers’ secondary financing “gives buyers an
additional option and may be particularly useful in the current
market,” said Buggle Lau, chief analyst at Midland Holdings
Ltd., Hong Kong’s biggest publicly traded property agency.  Luxury Prices  Hong Kong home  prices  have risen 47 percent since the
beginning of 2009 on the back of an influx of mainland Chinese
buyers and mortgage rates at a 20-year low. The city’s interest
rates normally follow those in the U.S. because the currency is
pegged to the dollar.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said Sept. 21 it’s willing to ease
monetary policy further to boost the economy and lower
unemployment.  HKMA Chief Executive Norman Chan said earlier this month
the property market has been “rising quite rapidly” and may
collapse if prices keep going up, joining Tsang in cautioning
about an asset bubble. Tsang said Aug. 13 the gain in home
values in the city was “rare.”  Home prices -- especially of luxury properties, which in
Hong Kong are classified as those 1,000 square feet (93 square
meters) or larger, or costing HK$10 million or more -- are on
par with the level of 1997, the height of a previous bubble that
was followed by a six-year slump. At the time, some developers
went as far as to offer 100 percent mortgages to clients to
boost sales, said Centaline’s Wong.  “Developers will constantly come up with new measures to
boost sales no matter what the government does,” he said.
“It’s almost certain the government will announce more measures
to curb prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  