-- Monsanto Plunges on Concerns About Corn-Seed Yields
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-09-28T20:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/monsanto-plunges-on-concern-smartstax-yields-less-than-cheaper-corn-seeds.html
Monsanto Co. , the world’s largest
seed company, fell the most in 21 months in New York amid
concerns that its new SmartStax corn seeds aren’t performing as
well as predicted.  Monsanto, based in St. Louis,  tumbled  $4.32, or 8.1
percent, to $48.75 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading, the largest drop since Dec. 11, 2008, and the
biggest decline today in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index . The
shares have slumped 40 percent this year.  Early harvest data from Iowa show SmartStax seeds, which
have eight added genes to protect against weeds and bugs, are
yielding 3 percent to 5 percent less than cheaper seeds with two
or three added traits, said  Laurence Alexander , an analyst at
Jefferies & Co. in New York.  “The initial data is weaker than we expected,” Alexander,
who is based in New York and rates the shares “hold,” said in
a report today.  Monsanto, led by Chief Executive Officer  Hugh Grant , in
December promoted SmartStax, its most expensive seed, as “the
highest yielding corn product available.” Monsanto is counting
on SmartStax to help boost  profit  as much as 17 percent a year
after earnings from Roundup herbicide collapsed as competitors
cut prices on generic versions.  Farmers this year planted 3 million acres of the new
product, developed with Dow Chemical Co. Monsanto said Sept. 20
that early harvest data showed some SmartStax corn hybrids were
missing yield projections.  Seed Credits  SmartStax is still expected to yield 5 percent to 10
percent more than so-called triple stacks when all the data is
collected partly due to better genetics and insect resistance,
 Kelli Powers , a company spokeswoman, said today in a telephone
interview. Yields also benefit from regulators allowing growers
to plant less conventional corn alongside SmartStax, she said.  Corn modified to produce insecticides must be planted
alongside conventional corn to prevent bugs from developing
resistance to the plant’s pesticides.  Monsanto will provide credits for future seed purchases to
farmers who are dissatisfied with SmartStax corn seed, Powers
said. That could become a financial “headwind” for the company
next year, Alexander said in his report.  It’s too early to judge SmartStax’s performance because
only 10 percent of the plantings have been harvested and the
data isn’t statistically significant until 70 percent of the
harvest is completed,  John E. Roberts , a New York-based analyst
at The Buckingham Research Group, said today in a report. He
rates the shares “buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net . 