-- Oriflame May Acquire Competitor to Enter Brazilian Cosmetics, Chief Says
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2010-09-28T07:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/oriflame-may-acquire-competitor-to-enter-brazilian-cosmetics-chief-says.html
Oriflame Cosmetics SA , a Swedish
makeup maker that sells its products in 62 countries, may
acquire a competitor to enter the Brazilian market as soon as
possible, its Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Braennstroem  said.  Buying a local set-up is an attractive option because of
Brazil’s size and varying regulations in different provinces
make the country a tricky market, Braennstroem said yesterday in
an interview in Stockholm. The problem is finding the right
acquisition target, because it has to be “a good deal,” he said.  South American expansion is one of Luxembourg-based
Oriflame’s top priorities as it now mainly sells in smaller
markets there, such as Colombia. New York-based  Avon Products
Inc ., the world’s largest direct-selling cosmetics company, last
year had almost 40 percent of its sales in South America with a
9 percent revenue increase in Brazil. Oriflame had 5 percent of
its sales in Latin and South America.  “Brazil is the country I would say is the most
strategically interesting market in the world to enter right
now,” Braennstroem said. “Brazil already has a very high
consumption of cosmetics, strong growth within cosmetics and
direct selling is a highly accepted sales form.”  Oriflame, whose products are marketed by 3.5 million
representatives selling from their homes, gets about 55 percent
of its revenue from former Soviet republics. To compete with
larger rivals, such as Avon and  Mary Kay Inc ., Oriflame also
wants to expand into new markets in Asia. Malaysia, Laos and
Cambodia will likely be added in the next five years,
Braennstroem said.  U.S. Entry  Avon said in March it will add a new research and
development center in Shanghai to support growth in China and
Asia. Oriflame’s expansion in China depends mainly on the
availability of local sales recruits, which is the makeup
maker’s biggest difficulty, given the tough competition from
international and local direct sellers, Braennstroem said.  Oriflame will be “forced” to enter the U.S., the stronghold
of Avon and Mary Kay, if it wants to realize the long-term
target of becoming the world’s largest direct-selling cosmetics
company, Braennstroem said. It’s unlikely to happen within the
next five years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janina Pfalzer  in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 