-- Toronto Mayoral Candidate Ford Calls 6% Budget Cuts in Four Years `Modest'
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-09-28T19:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/toronto-mayoral-candidate-ford-calls-6-budget-cuts-in-four-years-modest-.html
Toronto mayoral candidate  Rob Ford 
said he’ll cut operating costs by 6 percent over four years for
savings of C$1.7 billion ($1.65 billion) if he’s elected to
oversee Canada’s most-populous city.  Ford, the front-runner among Toronto’s four main
candidates, told the Empire Club of Canada that he’d reduce the
city’s C$9.2 billion operating budget by 2.5 percent in the
first year, 2 percent in the second year, and 1.5 percent in the
third.  “That’s very, very modest,” Ford told reporters after his
luncheon speech today. “Services aren’t going to be affected
whatsoever; you just have to tighten your belt.”  Ford, a city politician for 10 years, posted yesterday on
 YouTube  his four-point fiscal plan to cut costs, saving C$2.8
billion over the next four years.  The candidate would find savings through measures such as
assuring competitive bidding on projects, delivering services
more efficiently, and looking at contracting out garbage
collection.  Ford’s fiscal plan also includes reducing the city’s
workforce by replacing half of retiring workers to save C$1.1
billion over four years, and cutting city council by half to 22
members in 2014. Ford said he’d also introduce a program to
reward employees for money-saving ideas.  Ford’s popularity has slipped in the past month, according
to Ipsos Reid. If the election were held today, 28 percent of
Torontonians would vote for Ford, down 4 percentage points from
an Ipsos Reid poll done a month ago.  George Smitherman ,
previously a provincial politician, would get 23 percent
support, up 2 points.  Joe Pantalone , the deputy mayor, is at 10
percent, while  Rocco Rossi  has 7 percent support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ; or
Alec McCabe at   amccabe@bloomberg.net  