-- Los Angeles Residents Wilt as Fall's Heat Wave Makes Up for Cooler Summer
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2010-09-28T00:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/los-angeles-residents-wilt-as-fall-s-heat-wave-makes-up-for-cooler-summer.html
Los Angeles residents, no strangers
to heat, broiled as the temperature hit a record 113 Fahrenheit.
Schools canceled recess, firefighters aided heat-stroke victims
and the public poured onto beaches to cool off.  Today’s peak in Los Angeles surpassed the previous mark of
112 degrees Fahrenheit (44.4 degrees Celsius) set on June 26,
1990, Stuart Seto, a specialist with the National Weather
Service, said in an interview -- the hottest day since record-
keeping began in 1877.  “There’s hot, and then there’s hot,” said Byron Tyler, a
resident walking in Hollywood after lunch. He shared a photo on
his cell phone from a friend in Sherman Oaks in the San Fernando
Valley, whose a car dashboard thermometer displayed 121 degrees.
“Looking at that I don’t feel so bad.”  The early fall heat wave has produced two consecutive days
of triple-digit temperatures, according to the Weather Service.
Downtown Los Angeles will drop to the mid- to upper-90s
tomorrow, Seto said. Valley areas will remain above 100 until
Sept. 29, he said.  “We’ve gotten many calls today that are heat related --
heat exhaustion, heat strokes,” said Mike Brown, battalion
chief at the Los Angeles County Fire Department.  “I’ve been listening in on the calls that are coming in
and it’s happening all over the map,” Brown said. “We’re
busier today than we’ve been for a while.”  Beaches were busier than usual for a Monday as people
sought to cool down, Brown said. Some motorists didn’t make it.
Dispatch calls were running 14 percent higher compared to a
typical Monday, said  Jeffrey Spring , a spokesman for AAA
Southern California.  Cars Overheat  “We’re averaging 2,000 calls an hour,” Spring said in an
interview. “There are a lot of dead batteries because they tend
to give up when they’re not in good shape in this kind of
weather. Overheated vehicles, where belts and hoses aren’t doing
their job.”  Tyler, a 47-year-old independent bookseller, said the
unprecedented heat may persuade him to turn on the central air
conditioning at home. It would be the first time in more than
two years. As others did the same, the city’s Department of
Water and Power advised residents to conserve energy to avoid
overtaxing the grid.  “The power system is operating normally,” Carol
Tucker, a spokeswoman for the department, said in an interview.
“There’s currently no major outages that are heat related.”  The Los Angeles Unified School District canceled athletic
events and other outdoor activities, invoking an “extreme
caution” policy that is triggered when the temperature reaches
95 degrees or above, said Gayle Pollard-Terry, a spokeswoman.  Late Summer  The 617,000-student district, the nation’s second-largest,
will continue the precautions tomorrow, Pollard-Terry said.
Parents of elementary-school students are being asked to send
their children to school either with a frozen bottle of water or
a thermos of cold water, she said.  The heat wave follows a summer that was the  second-coolest 
since at least 1944, according the Weather Service.  The past several days have made up for it, said Brent
Toney, a 25-year-old actor who sat with a friend outside a
Starbucks, drinking iced coffees to ward off the heat.  “We didn’t have much of a summer before,” Toney said.
“Everyone who was complaining then is complaining now that
we’re finally getting one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ; 