-- Los Angeles Wilts as Heat Makes Up for Cool Summer
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2010-09-28T17:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/los-angeles-wilts-as-record-fall-temperatures-make-up-for-cooler-summer.html
Los Angeles residents, no strangers
to heat, are broiling as temperatures hit records in a post-
summer swelter. Schools canceled recess, firefighters aided heat
victims and the public poured onto beaches to cool off.  Yesterday’s peak of 113 degrees Fahrenheit (45 Celsius) in
Los Angeles surpassed the previous mark of 112 degrees set on
June 26, 1990, Stuart Seto, a specialist with the National
Weather Service, said in an interview. It was the hottest day
since record-keeping began in 1877.  “There’s hot, and then there’s hot,” said Byron Tyler, a
resident walking in Hollywood yesterday after lunch. He shared a
photo sent to his cell phone by a friend in the nearby San
Fernando Valley whose car dashboard thermometer displayed 121
degrees. “Looking at that I don’t feel so bad.”  The early fall heat wave produced two consecutive days of
triple-digit temperatures, according to the Weather Service.
Downtown Los Angeles was expected to drop to the mid- to upper-
90s today, Seto said. Valley areas, some of which are within
city limits, will remain above 100 until tomorrow.  Los Angeles Police reported one suspected case of heat-
related death. Hollywood film editor Sally Menke, 56, was found
on a trail in the Hollywood Hills with her black Labrador
retriever at her side and was pronounced dead this morning, said
Lieutenant  Cheryl MacWillie , a coroner’s spokeswoman.  Menke served as editor on films by  Quentin Tarantino 
including “Pulp Fiction,” “Inglourious Basterds,” “Kill
Bill: Vol. 1” and “Kill Bill: Vol. 2,” according to the
 Internet Movie Database .  Power Failures  About 15,000 Los Angeles residents were without electricity
as of 8 a.m. local time today, according to the Department of
Water & Power. The hardest hit areas were Westchester, on L.A.’s
west side, with 2,411 customers affected, and Hollywood at
1,730, the DWP said in an e-mailed statement. The utility has
about 1.4 million electric customers.  The temperature downtown was 89 degrees at 9:47 a.m. local
time, according to the Weather Service.  “We’ve gotten many calls today that are heat related --
heat exhaustion, heat strokes,”  Mike Brown , battalion chief at
the Los Angeles County Fire Department, said yesterday. “It’s
happening all over the map.”  Beaches were busier than usual for a Monday as people
sought to cool down, Brown said yesterday. Some motorists didn’t
make it. Dispatch calls were running 14 percent higher than on a
typical Monday, said  Jeffrey Spring , a spokesman for AAA
Southern California.  Cars Overheat  “We’re averaging 2,000 calls an hour,” Spring said in an
interview. “There are a lot of dead batteries because they tend
to give up when they’re not in good shape in this kind of
weather. Overheated vehicles, where belts and hoses aren’t doing
their job.”  Tyler, a 47-year-old independent bookseller, said the
unprecedented heat may persuade him to turn on the central air
conditioning at home. It would be the first time in more than
two years. As others did the same, the city’s DWP advised
residents to conserve energy to avoid overtaxing the grid.  “The power system is operating normally,” Carol Tucker, a
spokeswoman for the department, said in an interview. “There’s
currently no major outages that are heat related.”  The Los Angeles Unified School District canceled athletic
events and other outdoor activities, invoking an “extreme
caution” policy that is triggered when the temperature reaches
95 degrees or above, said Gayle Pollard-Terry, a spokeswoman.  Late Summer  The 617,000-student district, the nation’s second-largest,
will continue the precautions tomorrow, Pollard-Terry said.
Parents of elementary-school students are being asked to send
their children to school either with a frozen bottle of water or
a thermos of cold water, she said.  The heat wave follows a summer that was the  second-coolest 
since at least 1944, according the Weather Service.  The past several days have made up for it, said Brent
Toney, a 25-year-old actor who sat with a friend outside a
 Starbucks , drinking iced coffees to ward off the heat.  “We didn’t have much of a summer before,” Toney said.
“Everyone who was complaining then is complaining now that
we’re finally getting one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at   mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
 Nadja Brandt  in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  