-- U.S. House Democrats Push to Sustain 15% Capital Gains Tax Rate
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-09-28T19:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/house-democrats-push-to-keep-15-capital-gains-tax-rate-in-pelosi-letter.html
A group of House Democrats, bucking
the Obama administration and party leaders, is seeking to keep
the 15 percent tax rate on dividends and most capital gains from
increasing in January for high-income Americans.  Forty-seven Democrats signed a letter to House Speaker
 Nancy Pelosi  urging that an extension of Bush-era cuts in taxes
on investments apply to all taxpayers, rather than only families
earning less than $250,000 a year. The lawmakers are led by New
Jersey Representative  John Adler , a Democrat in a close re-
election fight in the Philadelphia suburbs.  “By keeping dividends and capital-gains tax rates linked
and low for everyone, we can help the private sector create jobs
and allow seniors and middle-class households to save and invest
more,” Adler’s letter said. Ryan Carbain, a spokesman for
Adler, said 46 other Democrats signed the letter.  The issue runs parallel to the debate over who should
receive an extension of income tax cuts enacted during former
President  George W. Bush ’s administration. The tax cuts will
expire Dec. 31 unless Congress acts.  In both cases, President  Barack Obama  and most
congressional Democrats want to extend the tax cuts for families
earning up to $250,000 a year, about 97 percent of all
taxpayers. Some Democrats are joining Republicans in urging that
the cuts be extended for all income levels.  Congress in 2003 set a 15 percent tax rate on capital gains
for assets owned at least a year. Short-term gains are taxed at
an individual’s top ordinary rate, as high as 35 percent
currently.      Previously, the capital gains tax on assets held
between one and five years was 20 percent, while it was 18
percent for assets held five years or more.  20 Percent Rate  Obama and most congressional Democrats would let the
capital gains rate for families earning more than $250,000 a
year revert to 20 percent.  The 2003 law also reduced the tax on many dividends to 15
percent from ordinary income tax rates up to 35 percent. Obama
would cap the dividend tax rate at 20 percent for high-income
people.  Pelosi and other Democratic leaders in the House will
decide today on whether to vote on the tax-cut proposals before
the Nov. 2 elections, in which Republicans are favored to gain
seats in Congress.  Adler’s letter underscores the division in the House over
how to deal with the Bush-era cuts. Taking the opposite position
in a separate letter, 46 Democrats have urged Pelosi to hold a
vote to extend the tax cuts on investment income for families
earning up to $250,000 and let them expire for the highest
earners.  Senate Vote Postponed  The Senate last week postponed a vote on tax cuts until at
least mid-November. Illinois Senator  Richard Durbin , a Democrat,
said Republicans insisting on an extension of the tax policies
for all income levels would use procedural maneuvers to block
consideration of Obama’s proposal.  Eighty percent of all capital gains taxed at the 15 percent
rate in 2007 were earned by households with adjusted gross
income of more than $200,000, according to the most recent
Internal Revenue Service data. Americans earned $970.4 billion
in capital gains that qualified for the lower rates that year,
the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan  J. Donmoyer in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  