-- Housewife Turned Hyundai CEO Fights Billionaire Brother-in-Law
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-09-28T23:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/housewife-turned-hyundai-ceo-fights-billionaire-brother-in-law-for-dynasty.html
A decade-long feud that split one
of South Korea’s most powerful families now puts a former Girl
Scout leader against the nation’s second-wealthiest man in a
$2.5 billion fight for the country’s biggest construction
company.  Hyun Jeong Eun , who jumped from housewife to head of
 Hyundai Group  after the 2003 suicide of her husband, the favored
son of founder Chung Ju Yung, is trying to rebuild an industrial
empire splintered by family infighting, bad debts and an ill-
fated effort to expand into North Korea. Against her is  Chung Mong Koo , the founder’s eldest surviving son and chairman of
 Hyundai Motor Co. , a separate business that is the nation’s
largest carmaker.  The two go head to head this week bidding for a controlling
stake in  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. , the cornerstone
for the Hyundai empire before bad debts left it in the hands of
creditors. Failure to win would not only dent Hyun’s plans to
expand the group, it could cost her control of her biggest unit,
 Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. , which is part owned by Hyundai
Engineering, said fund manager  Chang In Whan .  “Hyundai Group desperately needs Hyundai Engineering and
they will push forward to make it happen as if their life
depends it,” said Chang, who oversees equivalent to $9.4
billion of assets at KTB Asset Management Co. in Seoul,
including shares in Hyundai Motor and Hyundai Engineering.
“Hyundai Motor has the biggest advantage because the focus is
going to be about who can come up with the money.”  Cash Pile  Hyundai Motor  had 7.3 trillion won ($6.4 billion) of cash
and assets equivalent to cash at the end of June, while
affiliate Kia Motors Corp. had another 1.9 trillion won,
according to financial statements. The combined cash and cash
equivalents at Hyundai Group’s main units -- Hyundai Merchant,
 Hyundai Elevator Co.  and Hyundai Securities Co. -- totaled 1.13
trillion won. The disparity is also reflected in personal wealth.
Chung Mong Koo is worth at least $5.4 billion according to
Bloomberg data. Hyun is worth at least $115.7 million.  The banks will auction off their 35 percent stake, worth at
least 2.9 trillion won, with final bids due by Nov. 12. Hyundai
Engineering shares have gained 3.4 percent so far this year.  “This is pretty much a fight between a whale and a
shrimp,” said  Cho In Karp , research head at Heungkuk Securities
Co. “Hyundai Motor will most likely rise as the winner. The
automaker is in a better position to raise money.”  Hyun was unavailable for an interview, said a Hyundai Group
official who declined to comment further. A Hyundai Motor Group
spokesman also declined to comment.  Hyundai Merchant Stake  The winner of Hyundai Engineering would gain its 8.3
percent stake in Hyundai Merchant, South Korea’s second-largest
shipping company, which contributed 58 percent of Hyundai
Group’s sales last year.  Combined with the 25.5 percent stake held by  Hyundai Heavy
Industries Co. , the world’s largest shipyard, and the 5.08
percent owned by  KCC Corp. , founded by Mong Koo’s uncle, who
tried to block Hyun’s succession, the total would almost match
the 40 percent owned by Hyun and Hyundai Group, according to
first-half financial statements from the companies. Another 5
percent is held by the shipping line and its employees.  “If Hyundai Group fails to buy Hyundai Engineering then the
whole managerial control of the group’s unit could be challenged
because of the shareholding structure,” Chang said.  Hyundai Merchant in turn is the biggest shareholder in 7 of
the 12 Hyundai Group units, so loss of the shipping line could
cause Hyun to lose control of the whole group in a domino effect,
said Chang.  While Hyun may be in a weaker financial position to bid, she
is appealing to the sentiment for Chung Ju Yung, who is widely
respected in Korea for building the Hyundai businesses, and her
late husband Chung Mong Hun, his chosen successor.  ‘Defend It’  Hyundai Group started airing  TV advertisements  on Sept. 21
depicting the late Chung Ju Yung and Chung Mong Hun, that say:
“it was everything to the father, it was everything to the son.
Hyundai Engineering, Hyundai Group will defend it.”  That sentiment has its roots back in 1932, when a 17-year-
old  Chung Ju Yung  stole a cow from his father’s farm in what is
now part of North Korea and drove it to the south, where he sold
it to start a business. In 1947 he set up Hyundai Engineering,
which grew into a group making cars, ships, semiconductors and
steel. The flagship company built the nation’s  first expressway ,
linking Seoul and the port of Busan, and won the country’s first
overseas construction order in Thailand in 1965.  Chung Ju Yung never lost his desire to reunite North and
South Korea and during the famine in the North in 1998 he herded
1,000 cattle across the border, saying it was repayment for the
one he stole. The stunt captured the public imagination and
opened the way for Chung to set up the $463 million business in
the North’s Mount Geumgang region. It also set the stage for the
first summit between North and South in June 2000, when Kim Dae
Jung traveled to Pyongyang to meet  Kim Jong Il .  North Korea Tourism  The following year, Chung Ju Yung died at the age of 86 and
Chung Mong Hun took over the mantle of the North Korean projects.
Two years later, as relations soured with North Korea over its
nuclear program, the younger Chung jumped from his 12th floor
office window after being charged in connection with $450
million of illegal payments to the North.  Hyun became chairwoman and she too devoted much of her time
to the North Korean tourism business, according to the group.  “I believe it’s my mission to rebuild Hyundai Group and
continue on the North Korea projects started by the late Chung
Ju Yung,” Hyun said in August 2004 on her  website . “I will do
my utmost to restore Hyundai Group’s earlier glory.”  The project around  Mt. Geumgang , or Diamond Mountain,
includes about 60 kilometers of the eastern coast. There are
hotels, hiking trails, an 18-hole golf course, a spa, a cultural
center, where a North Korean circus troupe performed, and a
branch of Pyongyang’s “Okryu Restaurant” serving its signature
“Pyongyang cold noodles.”  Political Climate  “Hyun pushed forward to get what she wanted, there was no
room for compromise,” said Rhee Bong Jo, who first met Hyun in
2004 at the Mt. Geumgang resort when he was vice unification
minister. “She had taken the lead in the North Korean projects
and succeeded in resolving some issues and winning new
projects.” In August last year Hyun met Kim Jong Il after
helping secure the release of a Hyundai Group employee accused
of criticizing the North Korean leader.  The political climate deteriorated after the South accused
the communist regime of torpedoing its Cheonan warship in March,
killing 46 sailors. The North denied the accusation and in April
said it will seize some South Korean assets at the Mt. Geumgang
resort and a find a new project partner to replace Hyundai.  While politics have wrecked the North Korean venture, Hyun
did oversee a revival in the group’s other businesses. Since she
took over, sales have almost doubled to 10.5 trillion won last
year, led by affiliate Hyundai Merchant. At Hyundai Elevator,
the country’s biggest elevator-maker, sales have doubled.  Sales Goal  In April this year, Hyun set a target of increasing the
group’s sales to 70 trillion won in 2020 by strengthening its
three main businesses -- logistics, finance and infrastructure.  “Acquiring Hyundai Engineering is something we cannot give
up because it will be a positive source of impetus for the
group’s future,” Hyun said in a speech to employees on Jan. 5.  Hyun, 55, was born in Seoul on Jan. 26, 1955, as the second
daughter of four. Her father, a one-time employee of the  Bank of
Korea , became chairman of Hyundai Merchant after it bought out a
shipping business he founded.  She majored in sociology at the  Ewha Womans University  and
studied human development at Fairleigh Dickinson University in
the U.S., according to her website.  Matchmaker  She met Chung Ju Yung at a ship christening ceremony in
Ulsan in January 1975 and he instantly wanted her to marry into
his family, according to a book published by Hyundai Merchant. A
few months later, Chung Ju Yung arranged for Hyun to meet his
fifth son, Chung Mong Hun, while he was on a short leave from
military service. The two married in July the following year.  “I found out years later that it was the Honorary Chairman
Chung Ju Yung that was the matchmaker,” Hyun said in an
interview on her website.  After her marriage, Hyun became a housewife, bringing up
her two daughters and a son and working as a director of South
Korea’s Girl Scouts. She is on a charity committee in Seoul for
the Red Cross and lists her interests as movies, especially
European ones, and dancesport.  Her husband’s death catapulted her into a position where
she was named among the  World’s 100 Most Powerful Women  by
Forbes magazine in 2008 and 2009.  Overcoming Skepticism  “She has successfully turned herself from a housewife into
a CEO, overcoming a lot of skepticism about her lack of work
experience,” said Chang Pilwha, a professor in the department
of women’s studies at Ewha Womans University in Seoul. “She has
proven herself by overcoming difficulties one by one.”  Her husband took over the tourism and other North Korean
projects after his father’s health deteriorated in 2000 and was
named as the elder Chung’s successor that year over his older
brother Chung Mong Koo, sparking what became known as the
“rebellion of the princes.”  Mong Koo, chairman of Hyundai Motor since late 1998,
accelerated a plan to spin off the automaker and its affiliates.
Two years later, Hyundai Heavy, whose biggest single shareholder
is sixth son Chung Mong Joon, also broke away from the group.  Chung Ju Yung’s oldest son died in a car accident in 1982
and his fourth passed away in 1990. The third son is honorary
chairman of  Hyundai Department Store Co. , the seventh is
chairman of Hyundai Marine & Fire Insurance Co. and the youngest
is head of Hyundai Venture Investment Co.  Foreign Demand  Hyundai Engineering said in February it aims to boost
overseas orders to $12 billion this year from $4.5 billion in
2009. Its net income climbed 22 percent to 456.6 billion won and
sales rose 28 percent to 9.28 trillion won last year.  Failure to defeat her brother-in-law and gain control of
the construction business may end Hyun’s dream of restoring
Hyundai Group as South Korea’s leading business.  “She’s gone through a lot of difficult times since her
husband’s death,” said  Byun Sung Jin , an analyst at Mirae Asset
Securities Co. in Seoul. “But nothing will compare with the
battle she is about to embark on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  