-- Toxin From Biotech Corn Detected in U.S. Streams, Study Finds
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2010-09-28T15:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/toxin-from-genetically-modified-corn-detected-in-u-s-streams-study-finds.html
An insecticide produced by
genetically modified corn was found in streams in the U.S.
Midwest, according to research by the Cary Institute of
Ecosystem Studies.  Samples at 217 stream sites in Indiana found the protein
Cry1Ab, the toxin expressed by so-called Bt corn, in water at
about a quarter of the locations, the Millbrook, New York-based
institute said on its  website , citing a study published this
week in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.  The insecticide enters waterways through runoff and when
corn stalks, leaves and plant parts are washed into stream
channels, the institute said. Indiana grows about 8 percent of
the  U.S. corn crop , according to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture.  “The tight linkage between corn fields and streams
warrants further research into how corn byproducts, including
Cry1Ab insecticidal proteins, potentially impact non-target
ecosystems,” said Emma Rosi-Marshall, an aquatic ecologist who
was one of the authors of the study, in a  statement .  These corn byproducts may alter the health of freshwater
bodies, the institute said, adding that ultimately streams that
originate in the Corn Belt drain into the Mississippi River and
the Great Lakes.  Corn is made to produce the Cry1Ab protein, which is toxic
to the European corn borer, by adding a gene from the soil
bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt. The European corn borer
is the  most damaging insect pest of corn  in the U.S., with
losses from plant damage and control costs exceeding $1 billion
a year, according to the University of Minnesota.  The study was conducted six months after the corn harvest,
indicating that the insecticide can persist in the environment,
the Cary Institute said.  Repel Pests  The stream sites with detectable Cry1Ab toxins were all
within 500 meters (1,640 feet) of a corn field, according to the
study. Based on current farmland use, 91 percent of streams and
rivers in Iowa, Illinois and Indiana are located within that
same distance from a corn field, the institute said.  “Genetically modified plants are a mainstay of large-scale
agriculture in the American Midwest,” according to the report.  More than 85 percent of U.S. corn in 2009 was genetically
modified to repel pests, resist herbicide exposure or both, with
63 percent of the crop modified to protect against the European
corn borer, according to the Cary Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 