-- Lloyd's of London Profit Slumps on Higher Claims
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-09-28T07:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/lloyd-s-of-london-profit-slides-more-than-50-on-temblor-oil-rig-claims.html
Lloyd’s of London, the world’s
oldest insurance market, said first-half profit fell more than
50 percent because of claims from the Chilean earthquake and the
Deepwater Horizon oil-rig explosion.  Pretax profit tumbled to 628 million pounds ($992 million)
in the six months to June 30 from 1.32 billion pounds a year
earlier, the London-based market said today in a statement. It
was the costliest first half on record, Lloyd’s said.  “Under the circumstances of those big catastrophe
losses, this is a very respectable result helped by some solid
investment returns,” Finance Director  Luke Savage  said in an
interview. Claims in the first half have already been “way in
excess” of the whole of 2009, he said.  Profits at Lloyd’s insurers including  Amlin Plc , Hiscox
Ltd. and Catlin Group Ltd. were hurt by February’s earthquake in
Chile, the second-most expensive temblor on record, and the
Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion. The Chilean earthquake cost
Lloyd’s about $1.4 billion and the Deepwater Horizon disaster
will cost between $300 million and $600 million, Savage said.  Record-low interest rates in the U.K., U.S. and Europe also
cut investment returns. Investment income was 597 million pounds
in the six-month period, compared with 708 million pounds a year
earlier.  Rates Decline  Insurers are also grappling with declines in premium
rates after a rebound in investment markets in 2009 coupled with
an absence of major losses that year helped boost capital
reserves, fueling more price competition. U.S property and
casualty premium rates have dropped to their lowest in 10 years,
according to the  Council of Insurance Agents and Brokers .  “We have seen softening of rates across most lines,”
Savage said. Premium rates in 2011 will be flat or see a “low
single-digit” percentage decrease when compared with this year.  The market’s combined ratio, or claims and expenses as a
percentage of premiums, was 98.7 percent in the first half,
compared with 91.6 percent a year earlier. The further the
measure is below 100 percent, the more profitable an insurer’s
underwriting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  