-- Pakistan Floods Destroyed $3.27 Billion in Rice, Cotton, Sugar Production
-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t   a n d   K h a l e e q   A h m e d
-- 2010-09-28T11:10:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/pakistan-floods-destroyed-3-27-billion-in-rice-cotton-sugar-production.html
Pakistan’s deadliest floods ruined
crops worth 281.6 billion rupees ($3.27 billion), destroying
rice, cotton and sugar, said Farm Minister  Nazar Muhammad Gondal .  The country lost 2.39 million metric tons of rice and 10.4
million tons of standing sugar cane, the minister said in an
interview today in Islamabad. The nation may also import 2.8
million bales of cotton, he said.  By ripping out crops, stores and 4,000 kilometers of roads,
the floods boosted food prices and may push annual inflation to
20 percent, according to Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani . The
inundations affected 20 million people, killing more than 1,800
and damaging 1.9 million homes, the government said. The losses
helped push rice in Chicago to the highest level since May and
boosted cotton to the most expensive in 15 years in New York.  “There will be pressure on exports,”  Rakesh Singh , a rice
trader at Emmsons International Ltd., said by phone from New
Delhi. The country may still ship 3 million tons after a bumper
crop last year, said Singh.  Gondal’s assessment of rice losses is higher than the 1.5
million tons estimated by Malik Jahangir, chairman of the Rice
Exporters Association of Pakistan, on Sept. 1. The minister
didn’t say whether the number was rough or milled rice.  With some new areas being flooded in the southern province
of Sindh, “we will need another month to finalize our estimates
for the immediate crop losses,” Gondal said today.  Staple Crops  Exports from Pakistan, the third-biggest rice supplier, may
plunge 35 percent to 3 million tons in the year started July 1
from 4.6 million tons the previous year, according to Jahangir.  Wheat and rice are the two staples for Pakistan’s people,
and the government and international relief agencies have found
it hard to provide food for affected areas. The United Nations
said damage to infrastructure may hurt farmers for years.  The country, the third-largest cotton user, may import 50
percent more this year, said an industry official Sept. 21.
Imports may reach 3 million bales, up from 2 million last year,
according to Muhammad Arshad, a vice president at the Pakistan
Central Cotton committee, a government-supported organization.  The nation is also Asia’s third-biggest sugar user and may
import 1 million tons next year after the floods damaged 15
percent of the cane crop, a farmers’ group said this month.  Sugar mills may produce 3 million tons against a target of
3.5 million tons in 2011 because less cane will be available,
said Ibrahim Mughal, chairman of the Agri Forum Pakistan. “That
means we would need to import 1 million tons of raw or refined
sugar to meet demand,” he said.  Pakistan consumes 4 million tons of sugar a year and needs
shipments to bolster supply and reduce record domestic prices.
The government has approved duty-free imports of raw sugar by
mills and traders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Rupert  in Islamabad at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net 
 Khaleeq Ahmed  in Islamabad at 
 kkhan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Williams at 
 mwilliams108@bloomberg.net  