-- Palestinians Give U.S. Time to Persuade Israel to Resume Freeze
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-09-28T08:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/palestinians-give-u-s-time-to-persuade-israel-to-resume-freeze.html
Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas ’s decision to consult with other Arab leaders
before responding to the end of Israel’s partial freeze on
settlement construction buys the U.S. some time to find a
formula to keep peace talks alive.  Abbas said he will wait until an Oct. 4 meeting of the Arab
League in Cairo before deciding his next step.  “If the colonialization stops, we will continue
negotiating. If it doesn’t stop, we will stop negotiating,” the
Palestinian leader said in comments broadcast early today on
Europe1 radio.  U.S. special envoy  George Mitchell  flew to the region late
yesterday to meet with both sides in a final push to salvage
negotiations that began Sept. 2. State Department spokesman
 Philip J. Crowley  praised Abbas for displaying “restraint.”
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said he’s willing to
continue uninterrupted contacts with the Palestinians during the
next few days to find a way to allow negotiations to go forward.  “We want to give the Americans four to five days, a week,
to see if they can get Mr.  Netanyahu  to seriously reconsider the
moratorium,” Palestinian negotiator  Nabil Shaath  said yesterday
in an interview in Paris after the expiration of the building
moratorium declared 10 months ago by the Israeli prime minister.  Jonathan Spyer , political scientist at Israel’s
Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya, said Abbas’s consultations
with Arab leaders will give “the U.S. mediators more time to
desperately keep these talks on track,” and “gives Abbas cover
to stay with the process.”  Air Strike  Three Palestinians were killed in an Israeli air strike on
the Gaza Strip late yesterday, according to Adham Abu Selmaya, a
Health Ministry official in the Hamas-ruled enclave. The Israeli
Air Force launched the strike after determining that
Palestinians were preparing to fire rockets into southern
Israel, the military said in an e-mailed statement.  Over the coming days, U.S. diplomats will try to resolve
the settlements issue. Accompanying Mitchell on the mission in
the Middle East is his deputy,  David Hale , and Dan Shapiro, a
White House specialist on the region.  “We would have liked to see a moratorium that lasts
another three or four months,” Abbas said in Paris after
meeting French President  Nicolas Sarkozy . “But we won’t have
rapid reaction.”  ‘Political Difficulties’  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  spoke to Netanyahu
twice to no avail on Sept. 26, hours before the moratorium was
set to end.  Clinton and Netanyahu spoke again late yesterday. “They
are usually quite direct with each other,” Crowley told
reporters afterward, without describing the substance of the
conversation. “He understands what our policy is. We understand
his ongoing political difficulties.”  Most of the parties in Netanyahu’s governing coalition,
including his own Likud faction, support building in the
settlements.  In an effort to broaden peace efforts, Clinton conferred
yesterday with her Syrian counterpart,  Walid al-Moallem , in what
was the first meeting between the top U.S. diplomat and a Syrian
foreign minister since 2007.  Crowley said the Syrians are open to being included in
talks on improving Syrian-Israeli relations.  On the Palestinian-Israeli issue, direct talks will be on
hold until it is clear what Israel will do on settlements.  International Pressure  Netanyahu faces pressure from governments, including the
U.K. and France, that have expressed regret Israel didn’t extend
the building freeze.  “The international community continues to be deeply
concerned by the current situation over Israeli settlement
building,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said yesterday
after meeting Clinton in New York.  Israeli Foreign Minister  Avigdor Lieberman  relayed his
frustration yesterday at the Palestinian position on the
building halt.  For nine months of the moratorium, “the Palestinians
wasted time and completely refused to accept this gesture and
accused Israel that it’s a fraud, it’s not serious,” Lieberman
told reporters yesterday in New York. Now the Palestinians are
“exerting pressure to maintain the same moratorium that they
previously rejected.”  Crews Resume Work  Israeli building crews began work yesterday at settlements
including Ariel, Oranit, Tekoa, Neve Daniel and Adam, according
to  Naftali Bennett , director-general of the Yesha Council, which
represents more than 300,000 settlers in the West Bank.  The freeze, declared by Netanyahu in November in what he
said was a bid to bring Palestinians to the negotiating table,
excluded about 3,000 homes as well as some public buildings.  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade.  The United Nations says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. President  Barack Obama  has said the settlements
aren’t legitimate.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in New York at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  