-- Papademos Says Greece's Economy Will Gradually Return to Growth Next Year
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2010-09-28T05:51:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/papademos-says-greece-s-economy-will-gradually-return-to-growth-next-year.html
Lucas Papademos , the former
European Central Bank Vice President, said the Greek economy
will return to economic growth next year and ruled out any
restructuring of the country’s debt.  “In the course of next year, we expect a gradual return to
positive growth,” Papademos, who is serving as an adviser to 
Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou, said in an interview in 
Brussels late yesterday. “The restructuring of Greek debt is not
considered an option. It’s not an option for any country of the
euro region.”  Greek gross domestic product has declined for seven
consecutive quarters, dropping 2 percent in 2009, and the
government and European Union predict a 4 percent contraction
this year. The government imposed a series of austerity measures
this year, including wage and pension cuts, to help restore
investor confidence and push down the country’s budget deficit.  “I think Greece will go to tap the markets when the time
is right,” Papademos said. “2011 is a year when I would expect
the conditions to improve substantially and the likelihood of a
return to markets would be high.”  Investors remain reluctant to buy  Greek debt . The  extra
yield  that they demand to hold Greek 10-year bonds compared with
 German bunds  was at 862.9 basis points yesterday. It was at 965
basis points before the EU-led bailout in early May.  While Greece’s fiscal consolidation efforts have been
“really impressive” so far “markets and investors would like
to be more convinced that effective implementation would
continue,” Papademos said. Still, “as the outcome becomes more
visible, there will be a visible change in financial markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Brussels at  cvits@bloomberg.net ;
 Caroline Connan  in Brussels at  cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  