-- Party of No Pledges to Solve Problems Some Day: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2010-09-28T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/party-of-no-pledges-to-solve-problems-some-day-caroline-baum.html
A contract is a contract, a pledge
just a pledge. If a contract can be abrogated when the political
winds shift, what sort of staying power should we expect from a
pledge?  The contract I refer to is the 1994  Contract with America ,
a legislative agenda presented and signed on the Capitol steps
16 years ago by 367 Republican revolutionaries. It included
eight major reforms and 10 bills, which the aspiring lawmakers
promised to bring to the floor in the first 100 days if they
became the majority party. (They did and they did.)  The measures included a balanced budget amendment, term
limits, tax incentives for small business, and Social Security,
welfare and tort reforms.  “If we break this Contract, throw us out,” speaker-to-be
 Newt Gingrich  and his band of rebels told the audience gathered
at the Capitol on Sept. 27, 1994.  It may have lacked the eloquence of the  Founders’ pledge  of
“our Lives, our Fortunes, and our Sacred Honor,” but it was a
bold invitation to hold them to their word.  Last week, House Republican members used a humbler backdrop
-- a Virginia hardware store -- to unveil a humbler governing
agenda: the agenda being something to campaign on aside from the
party of no.  Or, as  Politico  put it, “GOP unveils planks in lumber
store.”  Presented by House minority leader  John Boehner  and 12
colleagues, the “ Pledge to America ” featured a preamble with
lofty language (“America is an idea”), an appeal to first
principles (“government’s powers are derived from the consent
of the governed”), symbolic photographs (the Statue of Liberty,
Mount Rushmore and a butcher shop), and a plan to create jobs,
cut taxes, control spending, reduce the size of government and
repeal Obamacare. All in 45 pages.  Pledge to Undo  The Pledge was better on what the Republicans would undo
(the Obama agenda) than what it would do and how it would do it.  For example, the two references to “ entitlement ” programs
were in the context of protecting them. Social Security and
Medicare? The GOP wants a “full accounting” -- and clearly
nothing more before the November election.  The proposed “hard cap” on new discretionary spending
isn’t going to fix the problem. Non-security discretionary
spending accounts for about 17 percent of  total outlays . If
you’re going to cut spending, you have to cut where the spending
is, as bank robber Willie Sutton might have said.  What became of the Contract? Were there any lasting
effects?  First 100 Days  The Contract with America was revolutionary for what it set
out to achieve and a disappointment for what it accomplished.
(The Department of Education, targeted for extinction, is still
kicking.)  Gingrich kept his promise, bringing all 10 bills to the
floor in a flurry of legislative activity that historians have
compared to FDR’s first 100 days. With a 230-to-204 Republican
 majority  (there was one independent), nine bills passed the
House. Guess which one didn’t?  Term limits. Having retaken the chamber for the first time
in 40 years, the old guard was not about to let the young bucks
legislate the Republican party out of office. Gingrich failed to
get the two-thirds majority needed for a constitutional
amendment to limit terms in office to 12 years.  Most of the bills died in the Senate or on the president’s
desk. Government did get smaller as a share of the economy in
the 1990s, from 22.1 percent in 1991 to 18 percent in 2000. Part
of that was a result of the peace dividend and the decline in
 defense spending .  Shifting Views  What happened to the spirit of the contract? Did Gingrich &
Co. have a change of heart or lose their nerve?  Gingrich’s star started to fade when the House shut down
the government in late 1995 and early 1996 when President  Bill Clinton  refused to go along with proposed budget cuts.  “By 1997, the GOP began to detect public opinion was
shifting,” said  John Samples , director of the Cato Institute’s
Center for Representative Government. “They realized they could
not get a permanent majority out of limiting government and
balancing the budget.”  At the same time, evangelicals and social conservatives
were becoming a larger force in the Republican Party -- “a
constituency that couldn’t be ignored” with a different agenda
from that of fiscal conservatives, Samples said.  By that time the  budget  was moving toward balance -- the
U.S. government posted its first surplus in three decades -- and
the public mood was shifting away from limited government. (The
public favors smaller government except when it means giving up
benefits.)  Contract’s Lessons  In 1998, following reprimands for ethics violations,
Gingrich stepped down from his speaker’s post and from Congress.  Then came President  George W. Bush , a “compassionate
conservative,” code for big spender, who added a prescription
drug benefit to an already overburdened Medicare system. A
couple of wars, a big tax cut, a financial crisis, a deep
recession and bailouts galore, and pretty soon the Republican
Revolution was just a memory.  The history of the Contract offers important lessons for
Boehner & Co.  First, if you don’t aim high you probably won’t get off the
ground.  Second, ideas alone are insufficient to effect change. It
takes “skills and enthusiasm and staying power,” said Samples,
who examined these issues in his  book , “The Struggle to Limit
Government: A Modern Political History.” It also takes allies
in the Senate and White House.  And third, remember you are fighting against politicians’
strong self-preservation instinct. If you can’t make the tough
choices today, you can always follow in the great tradition of
Congresses past: leave the problem for your successors.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Caroline Baum  in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  