-- Pawlak Says Poland's Central Bank Is Overdoing Talk About Increasing Rates
-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l   a n d   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2010-09-28T13:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/pawlak-says-poland-s-central-bank-is-overdoing-talk-about-increasing-rates.html
Poland’s Deputy Prime Minister and
Economy Minister  Waldemar Pawlak  said there’s no need for higher
interest rates as there is no inflation risk and Polish
borrowing costs are higher than in the euro region and U.S.  “The central bank exaggerates with rigor, signaling its
readiness to raise rates even as there is no justification today
for a restrictive monetary policy,” Pawlak said in an interview
in Warsaw yesterday. “Inflation is currently at a decent level
and I can’t see any reasons to be concerned.”  The Monetary Policy Council should follow the  European
Central Bank  and the  Federal Reserve , where rates are at a much
lower level, Pawlak said. The ECB has kept its benchmark at a
record low 1 percent for more than a year, while the Federal
Reserve left the main rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Polish policy makers will keep the seven-day reference rate
at a record-low 3.5 percent for a 15th month tomorrow, according
to all 23 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg , as the inflation
rate remained at a three-year low in August. Even so, three
members of the rate panel indicated in recent weeks that rates
may be raised this year to cool inflationary expectations.  ‘It should be taken into account that faster  inflation 
during the economic crisis did not affect the Polish economy,’’
Pawlak said. “Even the central bank’s surveys show that
inflation of up to 3.5 percent is not a threat, while it can be
a positive stimulus to economic growth.” Annual consumer-price
growth was unchanged at 2 percent in August.  Growth Estimates  Pawlak estimates growth this year of about 3.5 percent,
compared with a government forecast of 3 percent. Faster
 expansion  and inflation may boost budget revenue, lowering the
risk of public debt exceeding 55 percent of gross domestic
product, which would trigger austerity measures, he said.  Poland needs to keep its debt below 60 percent of GDP and
bring down the general government deficit to 3 percent of GDP
from last year’s 7.1 percent to qualify for the euro. The
government dropped a plan to switch currencies in 2012 after the 
deficit  widened and pledged to meet euro criteria by 2013.  “Setting the zloty exchange rate to the euro is more
important than setting a target date,” said Pawlak. “A rate of
near 4 zloty or even slightly more would be reasonable as it
would allow for retaining jobs and boosting exports.”  The minister said the pace of economic growth will be
largely determined by the zloty, describing today’s rate of
3.9759 against the euro at 2:15 p.m. in Warsaw as a “good base
for economic growth.” The government doesn’t expect the Polish
currency to strengthen, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net ;
 Maciej Martewicz  at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  