-- Pemex Default Swaps Climb to 11-Month High on Debt Supply Glut Concerns
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2010-09-28T17:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/pemex-default-swaps-climb-to-11-month-high-on-debt-supply-glut-concerns.html
The cost of protecting Petroleos
Mexicanos debt against default is climbing to an 11-month high
relative to the government on concern the state-owned oil
company will create a supply glut by selling international bonds
for a fifth time this year.  Credit-default swaps used to insure bonds issued by Pemex,
as the Mexico City-based company is known, have risen 16 basis
points, or 0.16 percentage point, over the past two months to
150, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. The Mexican
government’s swaps rose nine basis over that time to 126. The
gap between the two touched 26 on Sept. 24, the biggest since
October 2009.  Pemex, the largest oil producer in Latin America, has sold
more than $8 billion of bonds in international and domestic
markets this year to help finance a $19 billion investment
budget that seeks to recoup some of the production capacity the
company has lost since 2004. It issued $750 million of perpetual
bonds last week to yield 6.625 percent. Pemex sold more than $9
billion of debt last year.  “There are likely to be more issues in the next three to
six months and this is driving up spreads,” said Guillermo
Rodriguez, director of investments at Grupo Actinver SAB, who
helps manage about 45 billion pesos ($3.6 billion) in Mexico
City. “The cost to issue is going to be a little higher than
normal for Pemex.”  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  ‘Supply Risk’  Pemex plans to raise about $4.8 billion more this year in
financing from bank loans and contractor financing and as much
as $1.5 billion more of bonds this year, the company’s finance
department said in an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg News.  The gap between Pemex and the government will narrow to as
low as 10 basis points as the company’s debt issuance fails to
drive up its borrowing costs, said  Eduardo Suarez , an emerging-
markets strategist at RBC Capital in Toronto.  “The supply risk isn’t much higher than normal,” he said.  Pemex net debt may rise 7 percent to $53.6 billion next
year, the highest level since 1998, according to a budget
proposal the Finance Ministry sent to congress. The government
is seeking congressional approval for a Pemex budget of 286
billion pesos in 2011, an 8.7 percent increase from this year.  Pemex has stabilized oil production above 2.5 million
barrels of oil a day this year after output plunged since 2004,
costing the company as much as 300 billion pesos in lost sales
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  