-- Pennsylvania Breaks Record for Biggest U.S.-Subsidized School Bond Issue
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s
-- 2010-09-28T17:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/pennsylvania-breaks-record-for-biggest-u-s-subsidized-school-bond-issue.html
The  Pennsylvania State Public
School Building Authority  is selling $325.5 million of taxable
qualified school construction bonds in the largest deal since
the program began in February 2009.  The securities, set for issue Sept. 30, will fund the
renovation and building of schools in 46 Pennsylvania districts,
improving energy consumption and laboratories. The bonds are
ranked AA by Fitch Ratings and Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service,
both third-highest, according to preliminary offering documents.  Pennsylvania’s federally subsidized school debt matures in
17 years and doesn’t have to compete with 30-year Build America
Bonds in terms of yield, said  Alan Schankel , director of fixed-
income research for Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC, an underwriter on the offering.  “The deal is marketable because of its size and domestic
buyers’ comfort with U.S. municipal credit,” Schankel said.
“Given these don’t go head-to-head with BABs, I expect the deal
will be well-received.”  The state was alloted a total $600 million of so-called
QSCBs by the U.S. government, the sixth-biggest amount in the
nation, according to a June news release. The  issue  exhausts
Pennsylvania’s own sales quota for 2009 and a portion of its
2010 allocation.  Planned projects include renovations to increase energy
efficiency, expand pre-kindergarten programs and update science
and technology laboratories, said Barbara Nelson, director of
budget and fiscal management with the Department of Education.  School-Bonds Program  Issuers have sold more than $7 billion qualified school
construction bonds since the program began as part of the
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in February 2009.  The school-bond subsidy is paid directly to the issuer, as
is the case with Build America Bonds. The U.S. government
subsidizes as much as 100 percent of the interest costs on the
school debt and a fixed 35 percent on Build Americas.  The Pennsylvania notes will offer a yield 125 basis points
above 30-year  Treasuries , according to a person with knowledge
of the deal. A basis point is 0.01 of a percentage point.  Tennessee schools, also rated third-highest by Moody’s and
Fitch, sold $212 million of such debt Sept. 22 priced to yield
4.85 percent, or 110 basis points above the benchmark. Yesterday
the so-called spread had narrowed to 104 basis points.  Massachusetts’ schools on June 15 sold $151 million in 17-
year bonds, which were rated third-highest investment grade by
the three major rating companies. They priced to yield 5.47
percent, 125 basis points above 30-year Treasuries. Those notes
traded July 20 at 5.2 percent, 122 basis points above
Treasuries.  Pennsylvania’s sale of obligations from many districts in
one issue make the debt more marketable, lowers borrowing costs
and increases liquidity, Schankel said.  This “is a great way for school districts to access the
market and having a big deal saves everyone involved some
borrowing costs,” Schankel said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 