-- Peruvian Asset Prices Risk Overheating on Pension Fund Limit, Flecha Says
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2010-09-28T18:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/peruvian-asset-prices-risk-overheating-on-pension-fund-limit-flecha-says.html
Peruvian asset prices risk
overheating because of a law preventing pension funds from
investing more of their $27 billion in assets overseas, Peru’s
Private Pension Fund Association said.  Investors including pension funds and mutual funds have $5
billion of cash that hasn’t been invested because there aren’t
enough instruments available locally, association president
 Pedro Flecha  said in an interview in Lima yesterday.  Peruvian law bars the South American country’s four private
pension funds from investing more than 30 percent of their
assets overseas, a limit they want raised to 50 percent as their
growth outpaces the expansion of the local capital market. The
funds’ assets may increase 85 percent to $50 billion within four
years on rising revenue from contributions and profits,
according to  Profuturo AFP , Peru’s fourth-largest pension fund.  “Raising the limit on overseas investments to at least 50
percent is indispensable,” Flecha said. “If they don’t raise
the limit, the local market will overheat further.”  Fourth Increase  Peru’s central bank increased the operating limit on
pension funds’ overseas investments to 30 percent this month
from 28 percent previously, the fourth increase this year, to
help ease gains in the sol. Central bank President  Julio Velarde 
said Sept. 17 he is in favor of Peruvian lawmakers increasing
the legal limit above 30 percent.  The sol was little changed at 2.7880 per U.S. dollar at
2:07 p.m. New York time, from 2.7888 yesterday.  Pension funds had 26 percent of their assets invested
abroad as of Aug. 31, up from 16 percent a year earlier,
according to the Banking and Pension Funds Superintendent.  The funds’ assets are growing by $200 million a month, an
amount which can’t be quickly invested locally, said  Pedro Grados , who oversees $3.98 billion at Profuturo.  The Andean country’s Congress may increase the legal limit
on overseas investments next year, Grados said in an interview
in Lima yesterday. Congress will be renewed in July after
elections in April.  Apart from moving a greater proportion of their assets
overseas, pension funds may put more capital in infrastructure-
related investments and private equity funds, Grados said.  “There’s room to increase investment in private equity
funds, which we think have a lot of potential,” he said.  Economic growth as high as 8 percent this year is spurring
demand for corporate financing and creating new investment
opportunities for pension funds, Grados said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  