-- PetroSA Considering a $1 Billion Gas Project to Start Output in Early 2013
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-09-28T14:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/petrosa-considering-a-1-billion-gas-project-to-start-output-in-early-2013.html
PetroSA Ltd., South Africa’s state-
owned oil and gas company, is considering investing about $1
billion in developing a natural gas field off the country’s
south coast, a company official said.  The field may contain 1 trillion cubic feet of gas and
would be used to supply PetroSA’s gas-to-liquid plant at Mossel
Bay, about 390 kilometers (244 miles) east of Cape Town, said
Sandro Borean, head of PetroSA’s southern African upstream
operations. The field is situated about 40 kilometers from Cape
Town-based PetroSA’s other offshore gas deposits.  “The current fields are depleting and there’s a scramble
on to get more gas to the plant,” Borean told the Africa Energy
Week conference in Cape Town today. Development of the new field
“has been approved by the board recently. We anticipate first
gas in the first quarter of 2013. We’re currently going out to
tender for drilling rigs and other long-lead items.”  PetroSA’s Mossel Bay fuel plant can produce the equivalent
of about 45,000 barrels of oil a day, making it the smallest of
South Africa’s six refineries, according to the South African
Petroleum Industry Association. The company has been studying a
$9 billion, 400,000-barrel-a-day oil refinery in South Africa’s
Eastern Cape province for about three years.  Separately, PetroSA,  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Sasol Ltd.  were
jointly awarded exploration rights to two blocks off the South
African coast earlier this month, Borean said.  PetroSA is also “very bullish about discovering oil” in
another block it’s been studying since July and is discussing
the possibility of developing shale gas projects in the Central
Karoo basin, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 