-- Petrobras May Slip to `Weaker Side' of Credit Ratings Scale, Fitch Says
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2010-09-28T20:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/petrobras-may-be-placed-on-weaker-side-of-ratings-after-sale-fitch-says.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s
state-controlled oil company, may see its credit ranking slip to
“the weaker side of the rating category” following its $70
billion share sale, said  Daniel Kastholm , managing director of
Latin America corporate finance at Fitch Ratings.  “In terms of current cash flow, it will be leveraging,”
Kastholm said in an interview in New York. “Based on our
expectations, they will be placed on the weaker side of the
rating category.”  Petrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, raised the capital in
the world’s largest share sale as investors bet on its plans to
double output within a decade by tapping offshore oil fields.
The company sold 2.4 billion common shares for  29.65 reais  each
and priced 1.87 billion preferred at 26.30 reais apiece.  “Right off the bat $42 billion is going to the government
for the 5 billion barrels of oil that are located way below the
ocean,” said Kastholm. “In addition to the $225 billion
capital expenditure that they were planning on spending between
2010 and 2014, you can expect another $8 billion to $10 billion
to develop those 5 billion barrels, so you do the math.”  Petrobras’s common shares  fell  0.6 percent to 30.08 reais
at 4:30 p.m. New York time, after earlier rising as much as 0.8
percent. The stock is down 28 percent since Jan. 1.  The company is rated BBB by Fitch, the second-lowest
investment grade, with a stable outlook. Standard & Poor’s rates
Petrobras one level lower, at BBB- after cutting it a year ago
on concern the company’s investment program was too big. Moody’s
Investors Service has a Baa1 rating, three levels above junk.  Investment Plan  Petrobras is spending about $224 billion over the next five
years to boost production to 5.38 million barrels a day by
tapping deposits trapped under a layer of salt beneath the ocean
floor. As part of the sale, Petrobras issued about $42.5 billion
of stock to Brazil’s government in exchange for the rights to
develop 5 billion barrels of oil reserves.  The $70 billion offering spurred criticism from investors
including  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $34 billion as
executive chairman of Templeton Asset Management Ltd.  Mobius called the sale an “abomination” that treated
minority shareholders unfairly and said it signaled that stock
offerings may be overvalued.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 espinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at   amirabella@bloomberg.net  