-- Poland, Russia May Require Extra Talks for Gas Deal as Deadline Approaches
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-09-28T13:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/poland-russia-may-require-extra-talks-for-gas-deal-as-deadline-approaches.html
Poland and Russia may be unable to
conclude negotiations on increased gas deliveries at their next
meeting, scheduled no more than 20 days before imports run out,
Polish Deputy Prime Minister  Waldemar Pawlak  said.  “It’s impossible to say whether the next round will be the
last,” Pawlak told Bloomberg News in an interview yesterday.
“The situation is complicated by the European Union’s
involvement.”  Poland, which gets about two-thirds of its gas from Russia,
may run out of imported fuel Oct. 20 if the two governments
don’t reach a new agreement, Poland’s dominant gas company
 Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA  said Sept. 20.  Under the current contract OAO Gazprom, Russia’s export
monopoly, is set to ship 7.45 billion cubic meters to Poland
annually. The new deal, which Gornictwo and Gazprom agreed to in
January, increases the amount to 9 billion cubic meters this
year and as much as 10.2 billion cubic meters later.  The contract makes up for the supplies Poland lost after
trader RosUkrEnergo AG, 50 percent-owned by Gazprom, halted
deliveries following a dispute between Russia and Ukraine. The
European Commission is assessing whether the deal complies with
EU law, delaying the signing.  “The Russian side is reluctant to set any precedents,
based on the 2 billion cubic meters of extra annual gas
supplies, that could end up affecting the total amount of 140
billion cubic meters they ship to the EU every year,” Pawlak
said.  The bloc, acting as a legal adviser to the two countries,
is examining tariffs, pipeline management and re-export of gas,
 Philip Lowe , an EU official participating in the negotiations
said last week.  Legal, Commercial Sense  Pawlak’s ministry said after talks on Sept. 24 that the
final round would begin in early October. Lowe said then that
talks would reopen in 7 to 10 days, and that “there is a
recognition of the need to make sure these arrangements make
sense legally and make sense commercially.”  Originally Poland and Russia agreed to extend the current
contract by 15 years to 2037, while securing transit to Germany
via the Yamal pipeline through 2045. Now the timeline for
deliveries to Poland may remain unchanged, Pawlak said.  “I see no reason to make a big deal about extending the
contract by 15 years,” he said. “The Russians are also
flexible in this regard.”  Pawlak said yesterday he’s “optimistic that Poland has
managed to find a solution that both the EU and Russia are ready
to accept.”  Poland has always paid for the gas it uses and Russia has
never halted shipments, Pawlak said, adding that the situation
now shouldn’t be treated as “dramatic” and that he counts on
reaching a compromise “as soon as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net 
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  