-- Posen Makes BOE `Prosecution' Case for Stimulus to Aid Growth
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-09-29T08:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/posen-says-bank-of-england-should-buy-more-assets-to-support-economy.html
Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  made the strongest call yet for the bank to restart its
asset-purchase program.  U.K. growth is so far below its potential that failure to
take action could entrench a slow rate of economic expansion,
Posen said in a speech yesterday in Hull, England. That threat
supports the case for further stimulus by buying government debt
after the central bank kept its  bond-purchase program  at 200
billion pounds ($316 billion) for the past 11 months, he said.  Posen’s call for more economic aid conflicts with the push
for higher interest rates by his colleague  Andrew Sentance , who
is focused on inflation that’s held above the bank’s 2 percent
target for nine months. The debate sets the stage for the
panel’s first three-way split on a policy decision since
November and comes as the U.S. Federal Reserve and Bank of Japan
also consider additional steps to support their recoveries.  “He’s saying this is the case for the prosecution, and
let’s consider it at the next meeting” said  David Owen , an
economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in London. “I’d stick
with our forecast for no change to the asset-purchase target,
but the risks are now much more balanced.”  ‘Further Easing’  While data yesterday confirmed the British  economy  expanded
at the fastest pace in nine years in the second quarter, the
International Monetary Fund said on Sept. 27 the Bank of England
should restart asset purchases if the recovery falters.  U.K. policy makers signalled this month that they’re closer
to adding stimulus after holding the key rate at 0.5 percent and
leaving the bond plan unchanged. They will hold their next
policy meeting on Oct. 7.  “There remains a significant gap between what the economy
could be producing at full employment and it currently
produces,” Posen said. “Monetary policy should continue to be
aggressive about promoting recovery, and, subject to further
debate, I think further easing should be undertaken.”  The pound, which dropped 1.1 percent against the euro
yesterday, was little changed at 86.04 pence as of 8:55 a.m. in
London. It gained 0.1 percent versus the dollar to $1.5823.
Bonds rose for a third day, with the yield on the 10-year gilt
falling 2 basis points to 2.92 percent.  Sentance, who has called for a quarter-point increase in
the key rate since June, said yesterday a resumption of so-
called quantitative easing would be a mistake.  “Doing more QE would give the wrong impression on the
state of the economy,” he said in a newspaper interview in
Nottingham, England. “I actually think we should be preparing
the ground for gradually increasing interest rates in a measured
way to reflect the fact that the economy has improved and the
inflation situation is not where we would like it to be.”  ‘Bun Fight’  Posen has always voted with the majority on the nine-member
rate-setting panel since he joined in September 2009, deciding
in 12 of 13 meetings for no change in the key rate or the target
for asset purchases.  “It’s shaping up to be a bun fight between Sentance and
Posen,” said  Howard Archer , chief U.K. and European economist
at IHS Global Insight in London. “There’s a very strong chance
you’ll see a three-way split.”  The committee’s last such split was in November when the
majority, including Posen, voted to increase the bond plan by 25
billion pounds to the current target. At that meeting, Chief
Economist  Spencer Dale  voted for no change to the amount of bond
purchases, while  David Miles  argued for a 40 billion-pound
increase in the plan.  Inflation Fear  Posen said yesterday that officials should “not settle for
weak growth out of misplaced fear of inflation” and the current
“overshooting” above the government’s 3 percent limit won’t
last. Inflation will probably be “well short” of the central
bank’s 2 percent target in 2012 and 2013, he said.  The U.K. central bank should consider buying gilts in its
initial effort to add stimulus, though purchases of private
assets may be needed later, he said.  “Additional monetary stimulus at this point should begin
in the form of additional QE as the Bank of England pursued by
purchasing gilts in 2009-2010,” he said. “In case such QE were
to prove insufficiently effective,” Posen said he would “still
want preparation ahead of a Plan B of large-scale non-gilt asset
purchases” in close coordination with the Treasury.  The argument for more stimulus is not based on new
forecasts or signs of a double dip, but on studies of recoveries
after previous crises in Japan and the U.S., he said.  Posen, 43, an American citizen, joined the central bank
from the Washington-based Peterson Institute for International
Economics. A co-writer of a book on inflation targeting with Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , he also published a study of the
Japanese financial crisis and was a researcher at the Bundesbank
and European Central Bank.  “Economic recovery following a financial crisis is a long
process dominated by the interaction of unemployed resources,
dysfunctional banking systems, and the degree of policy
stimulus,” he said. “We are a long way from home, and a long,
long way from overheating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  