-- Producer David Simon, Director David Cromer Win $500,000 Grants
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2010-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/producer-david-simon-director-david-cromer-win-500-000-genius-grants.html
David Simon, the Emmy Award-winning
producer of the Home Box Office’s series “The Wire,” and New
York theater actor and director David Cromer are among the 23
winners of the 2010 John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur
Foundation’s “genius” grants.  “They are explorers and risk takers, contributing to their
fields and to society in innovative, impactful ways,” MacArthur
Foundation President  Robert Gallucci  said in a statement. “They
provide us all with inspiration and hope for the future.”  The $500,000 grants are paid out over five years in
quarterly installments. The Chicago-based foundation is named
for  John D. MacArthur , who owned Bankers Life & Casualty Co.,
now a unit of Carmel, Indiana-based Conseco Inc., and his second
wife, Catherine.  Simon, 50, a former crime reporter at the Baltimore Sun, is
also the screenwriter and producer of HBO’s “Treme.” He was
cited for his television dramas that view urban life “through
the lens of a hard-edged, cautiously optimistic realism,” the
foundation said.  Cromer, 45, gained wide acclaim for his off-Broadway
staging of Thornton Wilder’s “Our Town,” in which he also
starred as the Stage Manager. The foundation said Cromer
deserved a MacArthur grant because he restages established plays
“with a spirit and urgency that resonates with contemporary
audiences.” In the fall of 2011, Cromer plans to direct a
Broadway revival of Tennessee Williams’s “Sweet Bird of Youth”
starring Nicole Kidman.  Yiyun Li  Other winners include Beijing-born novelist  Yiyun Li , the
author of the short-story collection, “ Gold Boy, Emerald Girl 
(2010). Li, who originally came to the U.S. to study immunology
at the University of Iowa, teaches at the University of
California at Davis.  Genre-blending jazz pianist composer  Jason Moran  was noted
by the foundation for a body of work that incorporates classical
music, blues, jazz and hip hop. A teacher at the New England
Conservatory, Moran collaborates with visual and performing
artists using new technology.  Sculptor  Elizabeth Turk  transforms marble into
‘‘strikingly, intricate, seemingly weightless objects that defy
expectations of a traditionally monumental, heavy and prone-to-
fracture material,’’ the foundation said. One of her signature
works from a series called ‘The Collars’’ will be on view at
Hirschl & Adler Galleries in New York next month.  Drew Berry, 40, an animator at  Walter and Eliza Hall
Institute of Medical Research  in Melbourne, Australia, has
captured biological concepts such as cell death and tumor growth
through multidimensional renderings.  Carlos Bustamante , 35, has
studied DNA for clues about population patterns.  For more information on the MacArthur Foundation, and
winners’ biographies, see  http://www.macfound.org .  To contact the writer on the story:
 Patrick Cole  in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 