-- Range Resources Call Trading Jumps to Two-Month High Amid Takeover Bets
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-09-28T20:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/range-resources-call-trading-jumps-to-two-month-high-amid-takeover-bets.html
Range Resources Corp.  call trading
jumped to a two-month high on speculation that the U.S. shale-
gas producer may be acquired.  More than 25,000 calls to buy the stock changed hands, 24
times the four-week average and 7 times the number of puts to
sell. The shares rose 4.4 percent to $36.94 as of 4 p.m. in New
York. Today’s  most-active  contracts were November $40 calls,
which rose 62 percent to $1.05 and accounted for a quarter of
today’s volume. The stock hasn’t closed above $40 since July.  The options trading was spurred by “unsubstantiated
takeover rumors,” strategists at Susquehanna International
Group LLP in Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, wrote in a note to
clients.  Announced acquisitions of oil and gas assets owned by U.S.
companies surged to about $51 billion this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. In December, Exxon Mobil Corp.
agreed to buy U.S. gas producer XTO Energy Inc. in a stock deal
initially valued at $31 billion.  “This has been a favorite recycled takeover noise name for
quite some time,” said  Michele Skupp , a senior options
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York. “It’s today’s
rumor du jour.”  Karen Giles , a spokeswoman for Fort Worth, Texas-based
Range, declined to comment on the speculation.  Natural-Gas Stocks  “We don’t know anything specifically” about the options
trading, Range Resources Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 John Pinkerton  said in an interview. “I do think there’s
starting to be a general consensus in the market that natural
gas is undervalued. There are some investors that believe now is
a good time to be buying natural-gas stocks.”  Most of the call trades were from investors initiating new
positions, “so that suggests that there’s something going on
that we don’t know about,” said  Brett Marcus , an options trader
at Needham & Co. in New York. “The rumor mill is always
flowing.”  Range Resources fell the most in more than a year on July
27 after reporting second-quarter earnings that missed the
average analyst estimate. The company trailed projections
because it sold gas at lower prices than expected,  Fadel Gheit ,
an analyst for Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, wrote in a note to
clients following the earnings release. Range had said it sold
gas for 25 percent less than a year earlier.  Implied volatility , the key gauge of option prices, for at-
the-money options expiring in 30 days rose to 39.59 today, the
highest level in almost a month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 