-- TransCredit Says It Won't Return to Credit Markets Before VTB Talks End
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-09-28T16:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/transcredit-says-it-won-t-return-to-credit-markets-before-vtb-talks-end.html
OAO TransCreditBank , the lending
arm of OAO Russian Railways, won’t tap the credit markets again
before talks about selling a stake to VTB Group are completed,
Chairman  Yury Novozhilov  said.  TransCredit, based in Moscow, expects to close on a trade-
finance loan worth more than $300 million early next month,
Novozhilov said in an interview in his office today. The bank’s
shares on the MICEX surged 26 percent.  TransCredit, which is looking to expand retail lending and
diversify corporate clients, in July delayed a planned sale of
Ruble-denominated Eurobonds, citing volatility on the currency
swaps market. An investment by VTB would reduce the bank’s
premium, according to Novozhilov.  “The deal with VTB Group, if it’s made, would cut our cost
of funding on the market or from VTB Group by about half a
percentage point,” Novozhilov said. “The syndicated loan is
probably the last time we’ll tap the credit markets this year.”  TransCredit may be valued at 2.2 times its capital, or
about $1.8 billion, before the sale of a stake to state-run VTB
Group, Russia’s No. 2 lender, Vedomosti reported today.
Novozhilov, 36, declined to comment on the estimate or the
talks.  The bank is “certainly” worth more than the industry
average of 1.8 times capital, he said. A strategic shareholder
would “significantly” improve the lender’s capital-adequacy
ratio from 7.3 percent in the first half, one of the lowest
among Russia’s 20 largest banks, Novozhilov said.  TransCredit shares  rose  the most in more than 10 months
today, adding 26 percent to 19.15 rubles.  ‘High Return on Capital’  “This allows us to show high return on capital, but it
also puts a break on our development,” he said. “If the deal
is made, we hope that we’ll be able to get capital next year
from the new shareholder to develop our business.”  TransCredit wants to diversify its client-base, reducing
its “dependence” on Russian Railways, the state rail monopoly,
by about 5 percentage points to 30 percent by the year’s end. It
will also widen the scope of its retail-lending next year.
Novozhilov estimates the bank’s corporate-loan portfolio will
grow 40 percent this year, with retail lending expanding 15
percent.  “The bank’s conservatism, which prevented them from
expanding into real estate loans and retail lending quickly,
worked as a positive for the bank when the crisis hit,” he
said. “Now we are focusing on diversification and
modernization.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  