-- Real Volatility Easing Surprises Barclays as Election Nears: Brazil Credit
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-09-28T21:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/real-volatility-easing-surprises-barclays-as-election-nears-brazil-credit.html
Swings in the Brazilian real are
declining to a two-year low ahead of presidential elections as
the central bank steps up dollar purchases to offset a surge in
investment in the country’s stock and fixed-income markets.  Implied volatility on one-month options for the real versus
the dollar, which reflects traders’ expectations for currency
fluctuations over the next month, dropped to 10.76 percent from
18.38 percent at the end of May. The gauge touched 10.57 percent
on Sept. 10, the lowest since September 2008. The decline is the
biggest among 23 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The plunge in volatility before the Oct. 3 vote to replace
President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  surprised analysts at
Barclays Plc, who predicted in June that currency swings would
pick up as the real weakened ahead of elections.  Dilma Rousseff ,
Lula’s chosen successor, has built a “strong” advantage over
her rivals, damping concern that the next government will alter
the policies that fueled the fastest growth since 1986, said
 Roberto Melzi , a Barclays strategist.  “Dilma is continuity,” Melzi said in a phone interview
from New York. “What surprised us is that the campaign was less
heated. Dilma opened up a lead from early on.”  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years was unchanged at 114, the lowest level in almost
seven weeks, according to CMA DataVision prices. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Petrobras Offering  Rousseff, a 62-year-old economist who served as energy
minister and chief of staff under Lula, has a 22 percentage-
point lead over  Jose Serra , according to a survey conducted last
week by Sao Paulo-based Ibope for TV Globo and O Estado de S.
Paulo.  Rousseff had the support of 50 percent of the 3,010 people
polled nationwide between Sept. 21 and Sept. 23 while Serra, a
former Sao Paulo governor, had 28 percent, according to Globo
and Estado. The survey has a margin of error of 2 percentage
points.  Fading election concerns helped state-run oil company
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA  raise $70 billion in a record share
offering last week. The central bank has been boosting its
intervention in the foreign-exchange market to offset the
dollars that investors moved into the country to participate in
the share offering. Central bank President  Henrique Meirelles 
said on Sept. 24 in New York that the Petrobras sale was luring
“considerable” foreign investment.  ‘Currency War’  Banco Central do Brasil bought $5.9 billion in the first 12
days of September, the most in 11 months, according to  Altamir Lopes , head of the bank’s economic department. The bank has
purchased dollars every day since July 9, swelling its  foreign
reserves  to a record $274 billion.  “The market knows that every day the central bank is going
to buy dollars from them,” said  Flavia Cattan-Naslausky ,
emerging markets strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford,
Connecticut. “In the longer term, that tends to reduce
volatility. That’s the impact of an intervention strategy.”  Policy makers are trying to curb a four-month rally that
has pushed the real up 6.1 percent to 1.7119 per dollar. It’s
gained 35 percent since the end of 2008.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , who’s seeking to shore up
exports after the  current account deficit  reached a record $45.8
billion in August, said yesterday in Sao Paulo that the
government will buy up “excess dollars” and may impose a tax
on short-term, fixed-income investment. The government
implemented a 2 percent tax in October on foreign investment in
the stock and bond markets.  GDP Surge  Mantega said countries are engaging in a “currency war”
to weaken their exchange rates and bolster their economies.  “We’re already buying a bigger volume of currency -- we’ll
keep buying,” Mantega told reporters in Sao Paulo. “We are
experiencing a currency war. Devaluing currencies artificially
is a global strategy.”  The real is also gaining as record low borrowing costs in
the U.S. and Europe prompt investors to seek higher returns in
faster-growing developing nations.  Brazil, Latin America’s biggest economy, will expand more
than 7 percent this year for the first time since 1986,
according to a central bank survey of analysts released
yesterday. The central bank has raised the benchmark lending
rate 200 basis points, or 2 percentage points, since April to
10.75 percent to drive inflation down to its annual target of
4.5 percent. Brazil’s benchmark rate is more than 900 basis
points higher than the key rates in the U.S. and euro zone.  ‘Never Bearish’  The real touched a nine-month high of 1.7031 on Sept. 14.
Economists forecast it will weaken to 1.78 per dollar by
December before rebounding to 1.7 at the end of 2011, according
to the median estimate in Bloomberg surveys. Barclays predicts
it will gain to 1.7 per dollar over the next six months.  “We were never bearish,” said Melzi. “We had just
thought that in a closer campaign, the market could be more
sensitive” to the candidates’ proposals, he said.  Bank of America Corp. in April cut its real forecast for
September to 1.9 because the election would curb investment. The
bank now forecasts the real will end the year at 1.8.  David Beker , head Latin America strategy at Bank of America in New
York, was traveling and unavailable to comment, according to
spokeswoman  Susan McCabe .  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January held at 10.66 percent today at 5:30 p.m. New York time.
The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries rose two basis points to 211,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  The real rose 0.2 percent to 1.7079 today.  2006 Election  The one-month realized volatility on the real, which
measures the average price fluctuation over the past month, fell
to 7 percent on Sept. 10, the lowest level since Bloomberg began
tracking the data in 2007.  “You have two opposite forces -- large inflows coming to
Brazil and very heavy-handed dollar buying from the central
bank,” said  Nick Chamie , head of emerging-markets research at
RBC Capital Markets in Toronto. “The central bank intervention
eliminates any potential pickup in volatility” during the
campaign, he said.  RBC forecasts the real will end the year at 1.8, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. In June, the bank forecast a
year-end rate of 1.85.  The decline in real swings contrasts with a surge in the
prior two elections. In May 2006, implied volatility reached 34
percent, the highest since Bloomberg started tracking the data
in 2003, amid concern Lula would loosen inflation and spending
limits after winning re-election.  The real tumbled 38 percent in the six months through
September 2002 on concern Lula would default on the country’s
debt. The currency rebounded 5.6 percent in the following three
months as he signaled he would pay the debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  