-- U.S. 10-Year Treasury Yields Near 20-Month Low on Signs Economy Is Slowing
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i
-- 2010-09-29T10:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/treasury-10-year-yields-near-lowest-since-2008-on-signs-economy-is-slowing.html
Treasury  10-year yields were within
6 basis points of the lowest level since January 2009 before a
report this week that economists said will show manufacturing
activity slowed this month.  Five-year yields were close to the  least  in two years after
the Conference Board said consumer confidence dropped more than
economists forecast, spurring expectations the Federal Reserve
will take further measures to keep borrowing costs low. The U.S.
is scheduled to auction $29 billion of seven-year debt today,
the last of three note sales this week totaling $100 billion.  “The environment is supportive for Treasuries,” said
 Orlando Green , assistant director of capital markets strategy at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “The
possibility of further bond buying by the Federal Reserve is
relatively high. The Fed will be ready to pull the trigger if
there is evidence that the economy is moving to the downside.”  The 10-year note yield was little changed at 2.47 percent
as of 6:38 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data.
The 2.625 percent security due in August 2020 fell 1/32, or 31
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 101 10/32. The yield fell to
2.4158 percent on Aug. 25, the lowest since Jan. 21, 2009.  The five-year  yield  was at 1.26 percent, after dropping to
1.22 percent yesterday, the least since Dec. 17, 2008.  Treasuries have handed investors a return of 2.9 percent
since the end of June, a third quarterly gain and the longest
winning streak in two years, according to indexes compiled by
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit. Treasuries have
returned 9 percent this year, the indexes show.  Factory Index  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index  fell to
54.5 in September from 56.3 in August, according to a Bloomberg
survey before the Oct. 1 report. Orders placed at U.S. factories
declined 0.3 percent in August following a 0.1 percent gain the
previous month, according to a separate survey ahead of the
figures to be released Oct. 4.  The  extra yield  investors pay to hold 10-year notes over
two-year debt shrank to 2.02 percentage points yesterday, the
narrowest since Sept. 1, reflecting concern the U.S. economic
recovery is stalling.  “What’s going on further out the curve is a function of
the idea that the Fed’s going to be out there buying,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in
Stamford, Connecticut. The Fed’s “going to continue to be a
constant buyer in the Treasury market and presumably keep rates
contained through that process,” he said.  Five-Year Sale  Treasuries rose yesterday as a $35 billion sale of five-
year notes drew the lowest yield since the government began
quarterly offerings of the securities in 1976.  Notes also advanced as the Conference Board said its
confidence index slid in September to 48.5, the lowest level
since February. The median forecast of economists in a  Bloomberg
News survey  was for a drop to 52.1.  The Fed announced following its Sept. 21 meeting that it’s
prepared to do more to help the economy, fueling speculation
policy makers will add securities to the central bank’s holdings
by increasing their Treasury purchases under a policy known as
quantitative easing.  The seven-year notes being sold today yielded 1.88 percent
in pre-auction trading, compared with 1.989 percent at the
previous auction of the securities on Aug. 26.  Investors  bid  for 2.98 times the amount on offer last
month, compared with an average of 2.84 for the past 10 sales.
Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 56.7 percent of the notes, versus
the 10-sale average of 50 percent.  “The seven-year note offers the biggest challenge of this
week’s auctions, as it looks quite expensive on the yield
curve,” Credit Agricole CIB’s Green said.  Lower Than Forecast  Yesterday’s sale of five-year notes produced a yield of
1.26 percent, compared with the 1.276 percent average forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of eight of the 18 primary dealers
obligated to participate in U.S. debt sales.  “The market’s not trading on relative value,” said  John Fath , a principal at BTG Pactual in New York. “When you’re
buying five-year notes at 1.25, you’re thinking the Fed’s on
hold for three or four years.”  Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said the
debate over whether policy makers should undertake a new round
of asset purchases will “intensify” soon, and officials have
the “will to act” as needed to support the flagging recovery.  “In the coming weeks, monetary policy makers must come to
grips with the question of whether there is anything they can do
to improve the situation in the economy and, if so, what that
action should be,” Lockhart said in the text of a speech
yesterday in Sewanee, Tennessee. While declining to take a
position, he said “this debate will intensify.”  Futures on the CME Group exchange show a 31 percent chance
the Fed will cut its target rate for overnight bank lending to
zero by December, up from a 28 percent probability a month ago.
The rate is currently in a range from zero to 0.25 percent.  -- Editors:  David Clarke ,  Peter Branton .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  