-- Treasuries End Gain as U.S. Prepares to Sell $35 Billion in Five-Year Debt
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-09-28T05:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/treasuries-snap-gain-before-u-s-auctions-35-billion-of-five-year-notes.html
Treasuries snapped a gain from
yesterday on speculation demand will decline when the U.S. sells
$35 billion of five-year notes today with yields near the lowest
since 2008.  Ken Fisher , the chief executive officer of Fisher
Investments Inc. who was listed as a billionaire last year on
Forbes.com’s  website , said people are too pessimistic. Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s theory that developed nations are in
a “new normal” era of slower-than-usual expansion in gross
domestic product is “idiotic,” he said.  “Yields are too low given the outlook for economic
growth,” said  Hiroki Shimazu , an economist in Tokyo at Nikko
Cordial Securities Inc., part of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc., Japan’s third-largest publicly traded bank by assets.
“Inflation will increase in the last quarter” of 2010.  The five-year note rate rose one basis point to 1.29
percent as of 6:42 a.m. in London, according to BGCantor Market
Data. The 1.25 percent security due in August 2015 declined 1/32,
or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 99 25/32.  Yields  slid to 1.26 percent on Sept. 23, the lowest since
December 2008. The record low was 1.19 percent set Dec. 17, 2008.  Ten-year rates were little changed at 2.53 percent. They
will advance to 3.03 percent by the middle of 2011, according to
a Bloomberg survey of financial companies. Shimazu predicts 3.5
percent by year-end.  ‘Great Future’  “We’ve got a great future,” Fisher said today at the
Forbes Global CEO Conference in Sydney. New normal is an
“idiotic concept. It’s the same stupid old normal we’ve always
had.”  Bill Gross , who runs Pimco’s record-size $247.9 billion
Total Return Fund, has  said  a new-normal era will be marked by
slow growth in developed economies and below average returns.  U.S. government securities fell 0.1 percent in September,
headed for their first monthly loss since March, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Bank of America’s index
of global sovereign bonds dropped 0.5 percent this month, the
first loss this year.  The U.S. economy will expand 1.9 percent in the third
quarter and 2.3 percent in the fourth, versus 1.6 percent in the
April-to-June period, a separate Bloomberg survey shows.  The Federal Reserve is  scheduled  to buy Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities due from January 2011 to February 2040
today as part of its plan to keep borrowing costs low.  The central bank said in August it would use principal
payments from its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities
and agency debt to buy Treasuries.  The Fed announced on Sept. 21 it is prepared to do more to
help the economy, fueling speculation policy makers will add
securities to the central bank’s holdings by increasing their
Treasury purchases, a plan known as quantitative easing, or QE.  New Fed Plan  Central bank policy makers are considering using a smaller-
scale, open-ended method of Treasury purchases, the Wall Street
Journal reported. The proposal would contrast with large-scale
plans with a determined ending and give the bank more
flexibility to deal with the course of the recovery, the
newspaper said, without naming a source.  Forecasts for increased central bank purchases helped
increase demand at a $36 billion sale of two-year notes
yesterday. Investors bid for 3.78 times the amount of debt for
sale, the most since August 2007.  Auction Demand  The five-year notes being sold today yielded 1.32 percent
in pre-auction trading, versus 1.374 percent at the previous
sale on Aug. 25. Investors  bid  for 2.83 times the amount on
offer last month, versus the average of 2.74 times for the past
10 auctions.  Indirect  bidders,  the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 50.8 percent of the notes, versus
the 10-sale average of 46 percent.  This week’s note sales will conclude with a $29 billion
seven-year auction tomorrow.  The Fed’s statement last week also said it is prepared to
act to keep costs in the economy from falling.  The central bank’s preferred price measure, which excludes
food and fuel, rose 1.4 percent in August from the year before,
matching July’s rate, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks
and securities companies before the Commerce Department reports
the figure on Oct. 1. The rate fell to 1.3 percent last year,
the least since 2001.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, was 1.80 percentage points. The five-year
average was 2.10 percentage points.  Pimco on Deflation  Pimco said the world economy is at greater risk of entering
deflation, a sustained decline in prices, than the chances that
inflation will accelerate too rapidly, the Wall Street Journal
reported on its website.  Deflationary forces, along with central bank rates at or
near record lows in developed nations, make emerging-market debt
more attractive to Pimco, the newspaper said, citing an
interview that the fund manager’s chief operating officer,
 Douglas Hodge , gave to CNBC.  Investors should prepare for higher borrowing costs,
Barclays Capital Inc., one of the 18 primary dealers that are
required to bid at the government debt sales, said in a report.  “We continue to recommend that investors position for a
move higher in rates, particularly given the extent to which
more QE is already priced into upcoming Fed meetings,” Barclays
Capital’s  Ajay Rajadhyaksha  and  Dean Maki  wrote in a report
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 