-- Recalled Drugs Tied to Heart Risk Spurs Call for FDA Review
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/recalled-drugs-tied-to-heart-risk-spurs-call-for-fda-review.html
Half of the 21 drugs pulled from
the market in the U.S. for safety reasons since 1995 involved
heart complications, a finding that is spurring Congress and
doctors to call for closer government review of side effects.  The products were on the market from 11 months to 30 years,
based on a review of Food and Drug Administration data obtained
by Bloomberg.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s  diabetes drug Avandia,
marketed for 11 years, narrowly avoided a recall last week when
the FDA restricted its use as a result of a link to heart
ailments only uncovered after the drug was in wide use. The
agency is now reviewing heart risks for  Abbott Laboratories ’
diet pill Meridia, sold since 1997.  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, said the data
supports his recommendation to create an FDA center that would
independently study drug safety, saying early warnings within
the agency are now sometimes ignored. Doctors say heart risks
can best be found in large controlled studies before or after a
drug is released, as opposed to an FDA system that depends
largely on  voluntary reports  from doctors and patients.  “The question is whether there are more drugs that should
be on the list, and are not,” Grassley said in a statement,
after he was supplied with the recall data. Grassley is working
with Representative  Rosa DeLauro , a Connecticut Democrat, on a
bill to create the new FDA center.  Janet Woodcock , head of the FDA Center for Drug Evaluation
and Research, said the agency has already instituted new safety
tests to weigh possible heart risks in the case of drugs, such
as Avandia, that are used over a long period of time for chronic
conditions.  “It’s an ongoing process,” she said in a telephone
interview.  Heart’s Electrical System  Woodcock pointed to studies now required with most new drugs
to determine the effect on the heart’s electrical system. The
 guidelines  were issued in 2005 after drugs were withdrawn in the
1990s because they caused dangerous changes to heart rhythm.  It “doesn’t make sense” to test all drugs for heart risks
in large controlled studies, Woodcock said. Some drugs are taken
for only a short time and others are more likely to cause
negative effects on other body systems because of how they work,
she said.  The FDA has also started a post-market surveillance network
called the  Sentinel Initiative  that will allow the agency to
track reports of drug complications in insurance claims,
electronic health-care records and patient registries. The
agency is also requiring drugmakers to develop formal plans to
educate doctors and patients about potential side effects with
new treatments.  Risk-Management Tools  These risk-management tools help identify and track safety
concerns while keeping medicines available for patients who need
them, Woodcock said.  The Grassley-DeLauro bill would separate the safety
reviewers in the  Office of Surveillance and Epidemiology  to
reduce clashes with the Office of New Drugs, which is
 responsible  for deciding which products to approve and when
changes are needed to medicines that are already on the market.  It’s hard to tell if a heart attack or stroke is caused by
a medicine without strictly monitoring patients, said  Alastair Wood , a drug-safety expert who spent almost 30 years as medical
professor at Vanderbilt University. Cardiovascular disease is
the leading cause of death in the U.S. with an estimated 831,272
people dying from that cause in 2006, or one in every three
deaths, according to the  American Heart Association .  ‘Impossible to Detect’  “It’s virtually impossible to detect CV problems, like
heart attacks, in a spontaneous reporting system where there is
no control,” said Wood, now a managing director at Symphony
Capital LLC in New York, in a telephone interview. “If you see
six patients with a heart attack on the same drug, it means
nothing.”  Avandia concerns prompted the FDA in December 2008 to ask
companies for more heart data from new diabetes medicines. Drugs
submitted for approval must be able to  rule out  an 80 percent
increased risk of cardiovascular side effects in clinical
trials. Drugmakers should conduct additional testing after their
products are on the market when an increased risk of 30 percent
to 80 percent can’t be eliminated.  “If you were to require cardiac outcomes studies on every
type of drug that comes along, I’m afraid it would basically
grind the system to a halt,” said  Ira Loss , an analyst at
Washington Analysis who has followed the FDA for three decades.
“Companies wouldn’t want to make investments,” he said.  Posicor, Hismanal, Vioxx  The drugs recalled since 1995 because of heart risks
include Roche Holding AG’s blood-pressure treatment Posicor in
1998, Johnson & Johnson’s antihistamine Hismanal in 1999, and
Merck & Co.’s painkiller Vioxx in 2004. The average time to
recall was 8 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Posicor was withdrawn after 11 months because of signs of
low heart rhythm in patients. Basel, Switzerland-based Roche won
FDA approval in July 1997 and added warnings to its prescribing
information late that year about irregular heart rhythm and the
risk of potential muscle injury seen when the drug was combined
with certain cholesterol pills. Analysts had estimated that the
drug would become one of Roche’s top sellers.  Hismanal was approved in 1988 and the FDA warned four years
later that rare cases of serious heart complications and deaths
had been reported with higher-than-recommended doses. The agency
added cautions to the drug’s prescribing information in 1998
about deadly changes to heart rhythm, allergic reactions and
interactions with other medicines. J&J, of New Brunswick, New
Jersey, withdrew the allergy drug after 11 years of marketing
after the safety concerns and newer products eroded sales.  Vioxx Recall  Vioxx, used to treat arthritis, was recalled by Whitehouse
Station, New Jersey-based Merck after five years of marketing
when a study suggested the drug doubled the risk of heart
attacks after 18 months of treatment. An earlier study published
in 2000 suggested the medicine posed heart risks and led to
calls for further research into the drug’s side effects.  Avandia, once the world’s best-selling diabetes drug, was
linked to a 43 percent higher risk of heart attacks in an
analysis released in 2007, eight years after its approval.
Glaxo, of London, said last week that it would stop promoting
the drug as a result of new FDA restrictions and European
regulators’ decision to withdraw the product completely.  Meridia, a 13-year-old diet pill, was tied to 16 percent
more major cardiovascular complications in a six-year study of
10,000 patients released this month. Abbott Park, Illinois-based
Abbott no longer promotes the drug in the U.S.  Agency Disagreements  One reason for having a separate drug-safety center is that
there are often disagreements between the offices now under
Woodcock’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. The Office
of Surveillance has been prevented from acting on safety
concerns because it is “under the thumb of the office that put
the drug on the market in the first place,” Grassley said.  David Graham , a reviewer in the surveillance office and 26-
year veteran of the FDA, told Congress of Meridia’s risks in
2004 while calling for a recall of Vioxx. Graham also urged
Avandia to be pulled at a 2007 FDA advisory panel meeting. The
head of the surveillance office,  Gerald Dal Pan , said in
documents released by the FDA last week he still believes the
diabetes drug should be withdrawn from the market.  John Jenkins , head of the Office of New Drugs, recommended
against any restrictions to Avandia or changes to its
prescribing information during the FDA’s review, the agency’s
documents show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 