-- Tribune Backs Hedge Fund Lenders' Plan for Publisher's Bankruptcy Exit
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-09-28T23:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/tribune-says-fund-plan-will-allow-bankruptcy-exit-claims-judge-s-support.html
Tribune Co.  agreed to back a plan
by two of its hedge fund lenders that lets the publisher’s
newspapers and television stations exit bankruptcy while
creditors sue one another over the company’s 2007 buyout.  The announcement came after Tribune and its warring
creditors ended two days of mediation overseen by U.S.
Bankruptcy Court Judge  Kevin Gross  in Chicago. Tribune said in a
headline at the top of a statement that Gross “Endorses Tribune
Settlement” without providing any further details.  In a statement filed in Tribune’s court docket today, Gross
said the settlement would “lead to additional constructive
discussions.” Gross’s statement didn’t explicitly endorse the
company’s settlement proposal.  An earlier version of the hedge fund plan was rejected
yesterday by 14 lenders owed $730 million. Tribune and the hedge
funds, Angelo Gordon & Co. and  Oaktree Capital Management LP ,
didn’t say how they changed the earlier version.  “We remain confident that additional settlements will be
reached,” Tribune Chief Restructuring Officer  Don Liebentritt ,
said in a statement.  Gary Weitman , a spokesman for Chicago-based Tribune,
declined to elaborate on the company’s statement. James O.
Johnston, an Oaktree attorney, declined to comment.  Before Tribune can exit bankruptcy, creditors will be
allowed to vote on the hedge-fund proposal for the company’s
reorganization. The judge overseeing the bankruptcy,  Kevin J. Carey , will take that tally into account before deciding whether
to approve the reorganization plan.  $5.5 Billion Package  Under the plan, the lenders who funded the leveraged buyout
would split stock, cash and a new term loan. That package would
be worth about $5.5 billion on the day Tribune exits bankruptcy,
according to a term sheet filed in court.  Lower ranking creditors would be given the right to split
whatever money comes from lawsuits related to the buyout.  The official unsecured creditors committee will oppose the
plan, said the panel’s attorney,  Howard Seife . The plan
undervalues the amount that creditors could collect from buyout
lawsuits, Seife said in a phone interview.  The seven-member committee has been divided over the
$8 billion leveraged buyout led by real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell  that took the newspaper and television company private in
2007.  Lawsuit Vulnerability  Low-ranking noteholders, represented by Wilmington Trust
Co., want to sue fellow committee member JPMorgan Chase Bank NA
and other banks that financed the buyout. Lenders are also
divided over the buyout because the second phase of the two-part
deal is more vulnerable to a legal challenge than the first
part, a court-appointed examiner found.  Wilmington Trust claims the buyout was a fraudulent
transfer that left the publisher unable to pay its debt and
benefited only its former shareholders and the banks.  Robert Stark, a lawyer for Wilmington Trust, declined to
comment today.  Fighting among Tribune creditors, who are owed more than
$12 billion, intensified after July 27 when a bankruptcy
examiner,  Kenneth N. Klee , released a report that bolstered the
position of lower-ranking creditors. Those creditors, including
the noteholders owed $1.2 billion, said JPMorgan and the other
buyout lenders should lose their position among the first to be
repaid because of the 2007 transaction.  Tribune filed for bankruptcy in December 2008, a year after
the  buyout .  Tribune’s incremental term loan rose after the company’s
announcement, according to three people familiar with the
matter. The debt due June 2014 rose 3.5 cents, to 59 cents on
the dollar, said the people who declined to be identified
because the trades are private.  The company’s 5.25 percent bonds due in 2015 fell more than
2 percent to 44.5 cents on the dollar, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 