-- RIM Unveils Tablet as BlackBerry Maker Chases Apple's IPad
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-09-28T20:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/rim-unveils-playbook-tablet-as-blackberry-manufacturer-chases-apple-s-ipad.html
Research In Motion Ltd. , whose
BlackBerry smartphone rose to prominence on Wall Street, is now
targeting business customers with a tablet computer to compete
with Apple Inc.’s iPad and add a fresh source of revenue.  The BlackBerry PlayBook, slimmer and lighter than the iPad,
supports corporate applications and has advanced data-security
features, RIM said yesterday. The device has a 7-inch (18-
centimeter) screen, smaller than the iPad’s 9.7-inch display.  “The principal market for this is busy working people,”
RIM Co-CEO  Jim Balsillie  said in an interview in New York.
“We’re not trying to say this is all things to all people.”  RIM is racing to get its tablet into stores as Hewlett-
Packard Co., Samsung Electronics Co. and  Motorola Inc.  build
similar devices in a bid to emulate the success of the iPad in
filling the gap between smartphones and laptops. Apple sold 3
million iPads in the first 80 days after the device’s April
debut, eclipsing sales of its iPod music player.  The PlayBook will be available in the U.S. in early 2011
and in other countries in the second quarter.  “Some people did want to see a November launch date and the
fact they’re going to miss the Christmas sales was a
disappointment to them,” said  Tero Kuittinen , an analyst at MKM
Partners LP in Greenwich, Connecticut. He rates RIM a “buy.”  RIM  fell $1.45, or 3 percent, to $46.91 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market at 4 p.m. New York time. Shares of the Waterloo, Ontario-
based company have lost 31 percent this year, compared with a
36 percent gain for Apple.  Shrinking Market Share  RIM is counting on the tablet to increase revenue as the
BlackBerry loses ground. The company’s share of the smartphone
market slid to 18.2 percent in the second quarter from 19
percent a year earlier. Apple’s iPhone boosted its share to 14.2
percent from 13 percent and devices based on  Google Inc. ’s
Android software surged to 17.2 percent from 1.8 percent,
according to researcher IDC.  RIM may sell 6 million PlayBooks in the first year because
the tablet may be better suited for business users and
“productivity-centric consumers” than the iPad,  Mike Abramsky ,
an RBC Capital Markets analyst in Toronto, said in a note today.  “The smaller screen allows a little more portability than
an iPad, making it easier to carry in your briefcase,”  Matt Thornton , an analyst at Avian Securities LLC in Boston, said in
an interview.  That may be a deliberate strategy to counter the success of
the iPad among business users. Apple Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook  said in July that 50 percent of Fortune 100 companies are
providing the iPad to employees or testing the tablet computer.  Flash Video  The PlayBook has been built with the BlackBerry’s security
features that made it popular with governments and Wall Street
banks, differentiating the tablet from the competition,
Balsillie said. The device’s Web browser is compatible with
 Adobe Systems Inc. ’s Flash technology to allow customers to
watch a broader range of video content from the Internet, he
said. The iPad doesn’t run Flash video or animation.  By promoting the PlayBook’s compatibility with Flash,
“absolutely they’re trying to differentiate some of the
advantages of going with the PlayBook platform,” said  Ashok Kumar , an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw in San Francisco. He rates
the company “market perform.”  “The initial low-hanging fruit for the company is to go
after the installed subscribers base of 50 million and over the
longer term expand the opportunity beyond that,” he said.  Music, Media  Balsillie said the PlayBook, which weighs 0.9 pounds (400
grams), includes a front- and rear-facing camera and will be
sold through carriers and retailers, without giving specifics.
The company didn’t give a price for the device.  The tablet uses Wi-Fi to connect to the Internet wherever
the wireless technology is available, including a home or
office. When not near such Wi-Fi “hotspots,” people can
connect wirelessly to their BlackBerry with Bluetooth technology
and then to the Web. The device won’t be able to connect
directly to the mobile-phone network the way some iPads can,
though RIM plans later versions that will be able to do that.  RIM is building the device based on software built by QNX
Software Systems, a company RIM bought in April for $200
million. That marks a shift away from BlackBerry 6, the latest
version of the BlackBerry operating system, used in its Torch
phone released in August.  At least one person familiar with RIM’s tablet plan said
last month the company opted for QNX because BlackBerry 6
includes legacy software code from older BlackBerrys that limits
what devices can offer consumers.  While QNX’s software is used to help control the music and
media features in BMW and Porsche sports cars, it is also used
in the control systems for nuclear power plants and the U.S.
Army’s unmanned Crusher tank.  That will give it a higher level of reliability than rival
operating systems built for smartphones and adapted for tablet
devices, Balsillie said.  -- With assistance from  Greg Bensinger  in New York. Editors:
 Elizabeth Wollman ,  Ville Heiskanen   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  