-- Rio Tinto Doesn't See Any Iron Ore Demand Slowdown on China's Power Cut
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-28T05:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/rio-tinto-doesn-t-see-any-iron-ore-demand-slowdown-on-china-s-power-cut.html
Rio Tinto Group , the world’s
second-biggest exporter of iron ore, hasn’t seen any demand
slowdown after China cut power supplies to some steelmakers to
meet energy efficiency targets.  “We haven’t seen any drop in our forward shipping schedule
for the rest of this year,” Warwick Smith, managing director of
sales and marketing for Rio’s iron ore business, told reporters
at a conference in Dalian. “We’re running at full capacity.”  The Chinese government limited power to steelmakers this
month, trimming supply in the world’s biggest producer, as it
rushed to meet energy consumption targets. The nation’s demand
for iron ore, used in steelmaking, rose to a record 628 million
metric tons last year.  Imports by China will remain at similar levels to last year,
if not better, Smith said.  Vale SA, Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton Ltd., the three biggest
exporters of iron ore, this year abandoned a 40-year custom of
setting prices annually in favor of quarterly contracts. Prices
have gained in two out of three quarters this year with the new
system.  “Our position for this fiscal year has been to give the
quarterly pricing mechanism the chance to operate,” Smith said.
“We’ll continue to talk with all our customers in Japan, Korea
and China about what they think, what they see should evolve.”  Rio Tinto doesn’t have any plans to price iron ore on a
monthly basis, he said.  Mining companies and steelmakers should seek a better
pricing system,  Shan Shanghua , general secretary of the China
Iron and Steel Association, said at the same conference. Pricing
the ore based on indexes doesn’t accurately reflect the Chinese
market, he said.  Shan reiterated a call to limit the number of Chinese
importers for iron ore at the conference.  -- Helen Yuan . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Andrew Hobbs .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs@bloomberg.net . 