-- Rolls Royce, Pfizer, Ryder Cup, Blue Bunny, GM: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-09-28T11:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/rolls-royce-pfizer-blue-bunny-gm-intellectual-property.html
United Technologies Corp. ’s Pratt &
Whitney unit accused jet-engine maker  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  of
unfairly using patent litigation to keep it from re-entering the
biggest segment of the commercial-airline market.  Pratt & Whitney, in a lawsuit it said it filed yesterday in
federal court in Connecticut, accused London-based Rolls-Royce
of trying to interfere with its potential business arrangement
and engaging in unfair business practices. Rolls-Royce sued in
May, claiming the Pratt-made fan stage of the GP7200 jet engine
infringed a way to make blades quieter and more efficient. Pratt
denies the allegation and says the patent is invalid.  Rolls-Royce added Pratt’s Geared TurboFan engines to its
complaint in August, as Airbus SAS and Boeing Co. ponder putting
more efficient powerplants on the bestselling A320 and 737
planes. Pratt spent more than $1 billion and a decade to develop
the more-efficient design, branded as PurePower, as a way to get
back into the market for narrowbody aircraft after three decades
as a solo engine maker.  “Rolls-Royce’s actions will not impede our ability to
market and sell our engines,” Katy Padgett, a Pratt & Whitney
spokeswoman, said in an interview. “Our engines use many
different technologies and we can meet our performance
commitment to customers with a variety of fan-blade designs.”  Airbus, the world’s biggest planemaker, said last week it’s
in final negotiations with suppliers to upgrade its bestselling
A320 fleet with new engines and may make a decision as soon as
next month. Josh Rosenstock, a Rolls-Royce spokesman, declined
to comment.  Engine choices for the A320 would include the PurePower
model and an engine made by CFM International,  General Electric
Co. ’s partnership with  Safran SA . Pratt & Whitney is the world’s
third-biggest engine maker behind Rolls-Royce and GE.  Pratt & Whitney and Rolls-Royce are partners on current
engines for the A320 and compete against CFM International via a
group called International Aero Engines.  Rolls-Royce, which is developing its own more efficient
engine for new narrowbody aircraft, hasn’t agreed to market
PurePower through the partnership, saying it doesn’t see a
business case for putting new jet engines on existing aircraft.  Each company is suing in its home turf and it’s likely to
set up a battle as to where the dispute will be heard. Under
federal law, the judges will have to decide which court is more
convenient for both parties.  The first case is Rolls-Royce Plc v. United Technologies
Corp., 10cv457, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  Pfizer Sues Novo Nordisk Over Insulin Injection Technology  Pfizer Inc. , the world’s biggest drugmaker, sued Danish
competitor  Novo Nordisk A/S  in a U.K. court to invalidate its
patent for an injection mechanism that prevents overdoses.  Novo Nordisk’s European patent for the dose-setting device
is based on claims that weren’t new when the patent application
was filed, New York-based Pfizer said in a complaint in the High
Court in London. The suit, filed July 5 and made public this
week, didn’t say if Pfizer is using the technology.  “We disagree with Pfizer’s claim and we will defend the
patent in court,” Mike Rulis, a spokesman for Bagsvaerd,
Denmark-based Novo Nordisk, said yesterday in a phone interview.  Pfizer and Novo Nordisk, the world’s biggest maker of the
diabetes treatment insulin, have sparred over delivery methods
for the drug since at least 2005. The disputed patent concerns a
device that lets doctors set maximum dose limits to prevent the
visually impaired and other groups from using too much during
self injections.  Pfizer also sued Novo Nordisk in Switzerland over the same
patent, which expires in 2026, Pfizer spokeswoman Charlotte
Binstead said in an e-mailed statement.  Novo Nordisk in December started the first human tests on
an experimental insulin pill, joining companies seeking to
develop an alternative to daily injections. The challenge is to
develop an oral form of insulin -- a large and complex molecule
-- that can survive its trip through the digestive system,
 according to  Technology Review.  The companies’ earlier dispute concerned Pfizer’s inhaled-
insulin product  Exubera , seen as a possible replacement to
injections. Pfizer stopped selling the product in 2007 when it
failed to catch on with doctors and patients, while Novo Nordisk
abandoned its inhaled version the following year.  The companies in 2007 settled a U.S. patent-infringement
suit over Exubera. In that case, Novo Nordisk sued Pfizer in
federal court in New York, claiming Exubera infringed two
patents.  U.K.’s IPO Website Focuses on Golfers’ IP Competition  The U.K.’s Intellectual Property Office is focusing on this
week’s  Ryder Cup  golf competition at the  Celtic Manor Resort  in
Newport, Wales.  Several Ryder Cup-related articles are posted on the
office’s website, including one that compares and contrasts the
IP estates of the two teams’ individual players.  The selection of Tiger Woods to the U.S. team  virtually
wipes out  the U.K.’s golfer-related IP competition as Woods and
his related companies “have more trademark registrations than
the combined total of all trademark applications, trademark
registrations, patent applications, and patents of the entire
remaining field,” according to one of the articles.  A  second article  notes that the European patent office has
54,699 patents mentioning the word “golf,” and that the U.K.’s
Acushnet Europe Ltd. holds more than 600 patents on golf balls
alone.  Sanofi’s Patents on Cancer Drug Taxotere Invalidated  Sanofi-Aventis SA’s  patents on its cancer drug Taxotere
were ruled invalid by a U.S. judge, potentially clearing the way
for  Hospira Inc.  and Apotex Inc. to start selling generic
versions of the medicine.  Two of the Sanofi patents are obvious variations of an
earlier patent on docetaxel, the active ingredient in Taxotere,
U.S. District Judge Gregory Sleet in Wilmington, Delaware, said
in an opinion filed yesterday. The judge also ruled that Sanofi
misled the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to obtain the
patents, so it shouldn’t be allowed to enforce them.  Taxotere, used to treat prostate cancer, generated 2.18
billion euros ($2.9 billion) in global sales in 2009 for Paris-
based Sanofi. Like Tamixofen, which is used to treat breast
cancer, Taxotere is derived from the  Pacific Yew  tree, Taxus
brevifolia.  Lake Forest, Illinois-based Hospira, is seeking to sell an
injectable product with the same active ingredient in Taxotere.  The court’s ruling is “clearly a positive step forward”
for Hospira, said  Frederick Wise , a New York-based analyst with
Leerink Swann & Co. “There was some anticipation that we might
see this sometime before the end of the year but this came
faster, clearer and a little more positive than those
expectations.”  Wise said every $100 million Hospira gets in sales will
translate into 5 cents to 10 cents in earnings per share.
Hospira has kept plans about the generic under wraps, he said.  Taxotere has been on the market since 1996, according to
information on the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s website.
Sanofi sought to block the generic-drug rivals until the patent
terms end in 2013.  Sanofi won U.S. regulatory approval in June for a new type
of chemotherapy to treat patients with advanced prostate cancer.  The Taxotere patents cover a formulation containing
docetaxel, a compound that’s already covered by another patent.
It would have been obvious for scientists to come up with the
specific formula for Taxotere, the judge said.  The disputed patents -- 5,714,512 and 5,750,561 -- were
issued in February 1998 and May 1998 respectively.  A spokesman for Hospira, Dan Rosenberg, said the ruling
“paves the way for launch” of their product when the compound
patent expires in November. “We recognize that this is ongoing
litigation” subject to appeal, he said.  Elie Betito, a spokesman for closely held Apotex, had no
immediate comment on the ruling. Megan Humphrey, a Sanofi
spokeswoman, didn’t return voice and e-mail messages seeking
comment.  The consolidated case is Aventis Pharma SA v. Hospira Inc.
and Apotex Inc., 07CV721, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  European Anti-Piracy Report Endorsed by Children, Dead Artists  Some of the European artists who petitioned the European
Parliament to adopt a report supporting stronger copyright laws
are either dead or barely old enough to write, the TorrentFreak
website reported.  The  Gallo Report , “Enforcement of Intellectual Property
Rights in the Internal Market,” was adopted by the European
Parliament last week, TorrentFreak reported.  Parliament was sent a petition supporting the report by the
entertainment industry purportedly signed by Hungarian filmmaker
 Lazlo Kovacs , who died in July 2007, according to TorrentFreak.  Other names on the petition included  Cleopatra Stratan , a
7-year-old singer from Moldovia, and  Michel Sardou , a French
singer, who, according to TorrentFreak, has  previously
acknowledged  being a pirate himself.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Blue Bunny Maker Claims Dippin’ Dots’ Chillz Infringes  Wells Dairy Inc., maker of  Blue Bunny ice cream , sued a
Kentucky-based maker of cryogenically frozen ice cream for
trademark infringement.  The  Dippin’ Dots Chillz  non-fat ice cream made by Dippin’
Dots Inc., of Paducah, Kentucky is accused of infringing the
“Lemon Chill” trademark Wells used for a lemon-flavored
Italian ice, according to the complaint filed Sept. 24 in
federal court in Iowa.  Wells registered “Chill” with the U.S. Trademark office
in November 1997 and “Lemon Chill” in January 1996, the La
Mars, Iowa-based company said in its court papers. Wells claims
these marks are infringed and the public is confused by Dippin’
Dots “Chillz” mark.  Consumers are likely to assume falsely that a nexus exists
between the two companies and their products, the Iowa ice
cream-maker claims.  It asked the court to bar Dippin’ Dots’ use of “Chillz”
and to remove all promotional material bearing the word. It also
seeks an award of all “earnings, profits, receipts and
advantages” relative to the alleged infringement, and asked
that the company be forced to pay for advertising “to dispel,
cure or counteract any public confusion” caused by the alleged
infringement.  Wells also asked the court to order Dippin’ Dots to abandon
an application to register Chillz as a trademark, and seeks
awards of money damages, tripled, and litigation costs and
attorney fees.  The company is represented by  Bruce W. McKee ,  Christine
Lebron-Dykeman , and  Kurt Van Thomme  of  McKee, Voorhees & Sease
PLC , of Des Moines, Iowa.  The case is Wells Dairy Inc. v. Dippin Dots Inc., 5:10-cv-
04090-MWB, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Iowa.  For more trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  ‘Green’ Technology New Target for Intellectual Property Theft  “Green” technology is an “increasingly active target”
of those who would steal trade secrets, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation said in a  statement .  The statement noted that in July a Michigan couple was
indicted for allegedly stealing $40 million worth of  General
Motors Co.  trade secrets related to hybrid engines. The couple,
Yu Qin and ShanShan Du, had hoped to sell the secrets to one of
the automaker’s Chinese competitors, according to the FBI
statement.  The two were indicted in federal court in Detroit July 21.
According to court documents, Du was hired as an engineer with
GM’s advanced technology vehicles group in 2000, where she had
access to hybrid vehicle technology trade secrets.  Qin, her husband, started a company related to power
electronics and it was through this company that they planned to
develop and sell hybrid-vehicle motor control technology to a
Chinese company, according to the statement.  Du is accused of copying “thousands of GM documents,
including documents containing GM trade secrets” to an external
drive, and falsely telling GM she’d returned all of the
company’s proprietary information.  The couple planned to provide the trade secrets as part of
a proposed collaboration with China’s  Chery Automobile Co. Ltd. ,
the government claimed in the indictment. They are also accused
of shredding and discarding documents related to their company
and hybrid vehicles that were subject of federal grand jury
subpoenas.  According to an FBI statement, Du and Quin face potential
fines of as much as $750,000 and prison terms that could total
50 years.  Du is represented by Robert M. Morgan of Detroit, and Qin’s
defense counsel is  Frank D. Eaman , also of Detroit. Neither
responded immediately to e-mailed requests for comment.  The case against the couple is U.S. v. Qin, 2:10-CR-20454-
MOB-RSW, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan
(Detroit).  Other recent trade secret-misappropriation cases involved a
chemist at a paint manufacturer and a research scientist for an
agricultural company, according to the FBI statement.  With the “greening” of the American economy, the FBI says
it’s “not surprising” that the new technologies are sought out
by “information thieves looking to make a fast buck.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 