-- Rousseff's Lead Narrows as Brazil's Green Party Gains Ahead of Oct. 3 Vote
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-09-28T14:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/rousseff-s-lead-narrows-as-brazil-s-green-party-gains-ahead-of-oct-3-vote.html
Brazilian presidential candidate
 Dilma Rousseff  saw her lead in voter opinion polls narrow to a
one-month low, increasing the odds of a second-round ballot as
voters defect to the Green Party.  Rousseff had 46 percent of voters’ support in a Datafolha
poll conducted yesterday, down from 49 percent in a Sept. 21-22
poll, according to Folha de S.Paulo newspaper. Support for
opposition candidate  Jose Serra  in the Oct. 3 election held at 
28 percent, the newspaper said. The poll has a margin of error 
of two percentage points.  Backing for Green Party candidate  Marina Silva  rose to 14
percent from 13 percent, increasing the chances that the
election will go to a second round, said  Andre Cesar , founder of
Brasilia-based political risk firm CAC Consultoria. The Sept. 16
resignation of Cabinet chief Erenice Guerra, who succeeded
Rousseff, amid influence peddling allegations has eaten into the
front-runner’s lead, he said.  “The political accusations of the last two weeks are
hurting Dilma, while her campaign is still solid and President
Lula’s popularity still high,” Cesar said. “Marina is the
novelty of the election, and in the event of a second round she
will be crucial.”  Rousseff’s support from people who expressed a preference
for one of the candidates fell from 54 percent to 51 percent,
according to the poll, the lowest since Aug. 20, the survey
showed. A candidate must secure more than half of such so-called
valid votes in the first round to avoid a runoff four weeks
later against the runner-up.  President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s approval rating rose
to a record 78 percent this month, according to another
Datafolha poll released Sept. 23, when 44 percent of voters
surveyed by the institute said they would vote for a candidate
backed by the president.  After stepping down, Guerra wrote to Lula to say that she
was resigning to defend herself against accusations that she and
her children sought payments from companies doing business with
the government.  Guerra had previously served as Rousseff’s executive
secretary since 2005.  The real was little changed at 1.7111 per dollar at 9:35
a.m. New York time.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Price  in London at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net 
 Iuri Dantas  in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  