-- Rubber Drops as European Debt Concerns Trigger Industrial Commodity Sales
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2010-09-28T08:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/rubber-drops-as-european-debt-concerns-trigger-industrial-commodity-sales.html
Rubber dropped from a five-month
high as concern grew that European government finances may be
worsening, leading to sales of industrial commodities.  The most-active contract dropped 0.4 percent to 307.9 yen
per kilogram ($3,656 a metric ton) before settling at 308.5 yen
on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange. The contract touched 312.8 yen
yesterday, the highest since April 28.  Asian  stocks  declined today as yield spreads showed
perceptions of Ireland and Portugal’s creditworthiness are
deteriorating. Oil and base metals also dropped.  “Rubber tracked losses in equities and other industrial
commodities,”  Takaki Shigemoto , an analyst at JSC Corp. in
Tokyo, said by phone. “Risk aversion by investors increased
amid renewed concern over the European debt issue.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  lost 0.7 percent to 126.21 at
4:56 p.m. Tokyo time. Irish bond yields rose to a record
against German bunds yesterday and Portugal’s borrowing costs
also increased as the countries struggled to rein in their
budget deficits. The spread between Irish and German 10-year
government bond yields widened to 434 basis points today.  “Concerns about the global economic outlook haven’t
cleared,” said  Yasushi Noguchi , a strategist at SMBC Friend
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “There are still issues related to
Europe’s debt.”  Losses in rubber futures were limited as cash prices
increased amid expectations that supplies may remain tight,
said JSC’s Shigemoto.  Largest Exporter  Shippers in Thailand, the world’s largest exporter,
offered so-called RSS-3 grade rubber for November at $3.59 a
kilogram, up from $3.52 at the end of last week, he said.  “Demand from tire makers was strong, while supply was
curbed by wet weather,” Shigemoto said.  Natural-rubber supply will be curbed next year as yields
from aging trees decline and output growth slows, according to
the  Association of Natural Rubber Producing Countries . Thailand,
Indonesia and Malaysia are the three biggest producers.  “While supply remains tight throughout this year, the
possibility of change is remote in 2011,” Jom Jacob, the
group’s senior economist, said in a statement earlier this
month. The market remains “bullish” as rains disrupt supply
from Thailand and Indonesia, the group said.  The March-delivery contract on the Shanghai Futures
Exchange climbed 0.4 percent to 26,685 yuan ($3,987) a ton.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  