-- Rupee Power Bond Yields at Three-Month Low After Cap Lifted: India Credit
-- B y   S u p r o t i p   G h o s h
-- 2010-09-29T07:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/rupee-power-bond-yields-fall-to-one-month-low-as-cap-lifted-india-credit.html
Borrowing costs for India’s power,
road and rail companies fell to a three-month low after the
government lifted limits on foreign investment, directing global
funds to infrastructure projects for the first time.  Average yields on sovereign-backed bonds, sold mainly by
issuers involved in the building plans, declined to 8.68 percent,
the lowest level since July 2, an index from the  Fixed Income
Money Market and Derivatives Association  shows. The yield on the
11.25 percent bond due in 2018 from New Delhi-based Power
Finance Corp., India’s largest seller of rupee debt this year,
fell to 8.64 percent from 8.67 percent a week ago.  India’s government failed to spend the $500 billion set
aside to improve its transport, telephone and electricity
networks in the five years ended 2007 and is struggling to
complete facilities before the Commonwealth Games start Oct. 3.
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  increased the cap on international
holdings of Indian securities last week to $30 billion,
including a quota on debt to fund construction needed to sustain
growth in the world’s third-fastest-growing major economy.  “This gives domestic industries another source of debt
financing,” said  Scott Bennett , the head of Asian credit at
Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd. in Singapore, who’s been
buying Indian bonds in the past two months and plans to purchase
more. The changes allow “foreign investors to participate in
India’s fast-growing economy,” he said. Aberdeen has $246
billion under management, according to its website.  Brazil, Russia  India’s 10-year bond yield is the highest among major
economies except Brazil, where similar-maturity notes pay 11.87
percent. Comparable securities offer 7.41 percent in Russia and
3.33 percent in China. Policy makers forecast India’s economy
will grow 8.5 percent, almost four times as much as advanced
nations.  The rupee, which rallied 3.5 percent against the dollar
this year, rose to a four-month high today, gaining 0.7 percent
to 44.865 per dollar.  Yields on India’s benchmark 10-year 7.8 percent note due in
May 2020 fell 2 basis points to 7.83 percent, reaching the
lowest level in six weeks. The yield difference between India’s
10-year debt and Treasuries was 535 basis points, or 5.35
percentage points. The spread, which has averaged 318 in the
past decade, reached a two-year high of 556 on Aug. 26.  Arbitrage  “Long-term corporate spreads, which were widening, will
stabilize for a while,” said  Chaitanya Pande , the co-head of
fixed income at ICICI Prudential Asset Management Ltd. in Mumbai.
“There are two types of foreign investors, those who are
interested in interest-rate arbitrage, and then there are long-
term investors. The last type couldn’t invest earlier because
the limit was covered by short-term investors.”  Singh raised the overseas investment cap for government and
corporate bonds by $5 billion each on Sept. 23. The additional
investment must be made in company debt maturing in more than
five years aimed at funding infrastructure. International
 holdings  of rupee debt more than doubled this year to $17.7
billion as of Sept. 24, data from the Securities & Exchange
Board of India show.  India is also in talks with the nation’s largest bank over
an $11 billion fund, an aide to the prime minister said. The
government is holding discussions with the State Bank of India
and “a couple of other players” for a debt fund that would buy
infrastructure bonds,  Montek Singh Ahluwalia  said in an
interview in Kuala Lumpur yesterday.  Highland Capital Management said the government needs to
improve its ability to complete infrastructure projects before
it will buy the debt.  Building Challenges  India has struggled with stadiums, bridges and other
facilities ahead of the Commonwealth Games. A footbridge
collapsed this month next to the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in New
Delhi, the principal venue. The collapse highlighted challenges
in the nation of 1.2 billion people after an eight-lane sea-
bridge in the financial hub of Mumbai became operational in July
last year, five decades after the project was planned.  Of 578 infrastructure projects monitored by the government,
268 were behind schedule at the end of April, some by as long as
45 months, according to the Ministry of Statistics.  “The manner in which the Indian infrastructure and the
Indian political backdrop works is fragmented to say the
least,” said  Paul Adkins , a managing director at Highland
Capital in Singapore.  Indian bond issuance totaled 1.44 trillion rupees ($32
billion) this year, compared with 1.477 trillion rupees for the
whole of 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Falling Yields  Infrastructure Development Finance Co. sold 9 billion
rupees of 8.48 percent bonds maturing in 2013 yesterday, the
data show. Indian Renewable Energy Development Authority sold 4
billion rupees of bonds maturing 10 and 15 years, said two
people familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified
because the information hasn’t been made public.  Yields on Mumbai-based Infrastructure Development Finance
Co.’s bonds due in December 2013 have dropped to 8.32 percent
from 8.5 percent on Aug. 9. Yields on bonds due in 2025 of Rural
Electrification Corp., the New Delhi-company that helps fund
power lines, dropped 29 basis points on Sept. 27 to 8.72 percent,
the lowest since Aug. 17, according to prices from the
derivatives association.  “This will act like a trigger for new issuance,” said
 Manoj Kulkarni , head of credit research at brokerage SJS Markets
Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Infrastructure projects have a long
gestation period, and funding them through short-term bank funds
is a bad idea. You will get, for example, pension funds to put
money into this, so that you can get long-term financing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suprotip Ghosh in Mumbai at 
 sghosh47@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 