-- Russia Leaves Rates on Hold as Inflation ‘Acceptable’
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-09-28T15:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/russia-leaves-rates-unchanged-as-policy-makers-assess-inflation-pressures.html
Russia’s  central bank  left its main
interest rates unchanged as policy makers decided inflationary
pressures were “acceptable” and indicated there would be no
change in borrowing costs “in the coming months.”  The bank kept the  refinancing rate  at a record-low 7.75
percent, as forecast by all 17 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
The Moscow-based bank also left the repurchase rate on one- and
seven-day loans unchanged at 6.75 percent. The regulator last
cut rates on May 31.  “Bank Rosii still believes that inflationary risks, shaped
by monetary conditions, are at an acceptable level,” the bank
said in a statement. “It will continue monitoring the effect of
different factors on inflationary processes”  The possibility of an increase in the refinancing rate this
year is “very small,” First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev 
said Sept. 2. Even so, this summer’s drought is likely to push
 inflation  to 8 percent by year-end, Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev 
said Sept. 24.  The ruble was little changed at 30.5325 against the dollar
at 5 p.m., the close of official trading in Moscow.  ‘Exert Pressure’  Russia’s central bank is likely to keep the refinancing
rate unchanged this year, analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
Credit Agricole SA, and Trust Investment Bank said today.  “We do not anticipate any change in the central bank’s
monetary policy in the immediate future and retain our forecast
on the refinancing rate for the year at the previous level of
7.75 percent,”  Maria Pomelnikova , a Moscow-based economist at
Trust Investment Bank, said in an e-mailed research note today.  That puts Russia in line with East European central banks
such as Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, which probably
won’t raise rates until next year as a global economic recovery
stalls and inflation remains in check, according to a Bloomberg
regional survey of nine economists.  Russia’s Economy Ministry raised its 2010  inflation 
forecast on Aug. 30 to as much as 8 percent from the previous
estimate of as much as 7 percent after the drought reduced
harvests and prompted the government to ban grain exports at
least through the end of this year.  “In September, higher inflationary expectations related to
the outcome of unfavorable weather conditions continued to exert
pressure on the price level of certain food groups,” Bank
Rossii said.  Russian output contracted a monthly 0.4 percent last month,
with seasonal factors taken into account, as the drought cut
agricultural production, according to the Economy Ministry.  ‘Unstable’  Even so, “some indicators of industrial activity and
investment improved in August from the previous month, although
signs of unstable economic growth remain,” the bank said.
“Taking the above trends into account, the current parameters
of rate policy are seen by Bank Rossii as ensuring an acceptable
balance between the main macroeconomic risks in the coming
months.”  Gross   domestic product  may expand as little as 3.6 percent
in 2010, less than the government’s official 4 percent forecast,
Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  told reporters Sept. 24.
Inflation may exceed 8 percent, he said.  Some Moscow-based analysts don’t rule out an increase in
borrowing costs this year.  “The decline in the current account surplus and concerns
over slower economic growth, combined with the government’s
larger appetite for local borrowing, will push local interest
rates up, forcing the central bank to follow the market by
increasing the refinancing rate,” Alfa Bank analysts  Natalia Orlova  and  Dmitry Dolgin  said in a research note yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  