-- S&P 500 Rally May Pick Up Steam When Volume Rebounds: Technical Analysis
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2010-09-28T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/s-p-500-rally-may-pick-up-steam-when-volume-rebounds-technical-analysis.html
U.S. stocks are posting the best
September returns since 1939 in spite of  slower trading  volume,
a sign gains will accelerate once transactions increase,
according to Miller Tabak & Co.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has jumped 8.9 percent in
September while daily  trading  slowed to an average 3.25 billion
shares, compared with an average of 3.81 billion so far this
year. Volume slowed because bearish investors such as some hedge
funds avoided the market, said  Philip J. Roth , chief technical
market analyst at New York-based Miller Tabak.  “Such attitudes are prolonging the rally,” Roth wrote in
a note to clients yesterday. “Advances usually end amidst
widespread acceptance of a rise.”  The S&P 500 is poised for the best September in 71 years as
signs of improving demand for capital goods, technology products
and consumer items tempered concern the economic rebound is
slowing. The measure fell from a four-month high yesterday,
sliding 0.6 percent to 1,142.16.  Roth’s view was shared by  Katie Stockton  of MKM Partners
LLC, who said the rally “can persist on light volume as long as
breadth is healthy.”  The S&P 500 surpassed its June high last week in a
“breakout” that lifted the benchmark out of a three-month
trading range. Earlier this month, the  Moving Average
Convergence/Divergence line , a trend measure based on the S&P
500’s average levels during the past 12 and 26 weeks, sent out
the first buy signal since May.  ‘Enhances the Breakout’  “This enhances the breakout, and supports positive follow-
through over the next few weeks, at a minimum,” Stockton, chief
market technician at Greenwich, Connecticut-based MKM Partners,
said in a note.  David Rosenberg , chief economist and strategist at Gluskin
Sheff & Associates Inc. in Toronto, disagrees. “We read the
total lack of volume as a sign of very little conviction of the
institutional investment community and we share the sentiment,”
he wrote in a report to clients yesterday. “It’s not that the
market can’t rally, we just don’t have a strong enough
conviction over its sustainability.”  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story;
 Lu Wang  in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  