-- Sanofi-Aventis Said to Weigh Higher Takeover Bid for Genzyme
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-09-29T20:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/sanofi-aventis-said-to-weigh-higher-takeover-bid-for-genzyme.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA  is weighing
whether to make a sweetened takeover offer for  Genzyme Corp.  as
soon as next week, said people with knowledge of the matter.  France’s largest drugmaker is leaning toward raising the
current $69-a-share offer by $1 or $2, said two of the people,
who declined to be identified because the plans are private.
Sanofi executives and top advisers will meet later this week to
discuss how to proceed and a final decision hasn’t been made,
one person said.  Genzyme rejected Sanofi’s Aug. 29 offer, which valued the
U.S. biotechnology company at $18.5 billion, as too low. Sanofi
hasn’t ruled out making a hostile offer, though would prefer
friendly negotiations with Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
 Genzyme , said the people. An increased bid would come after
Sanofi Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  held meetings in
the past month with Genzyme investors.  “Sanofi needs a bump to start talks,” said  Amit Shabi ,
co-manager of Bernheim, Dreyfus & Co.’s Diva Synergy Fund, which
owns Genzyme shares. He estimated that the company would have to
raise the offer to $71 or $72 a share to get Genzyme to the
negotiating table.  Sanofi has the financing it needs for an offer, according
to three people. The company lined up about $10 billion of loans
from JPMorgan Chase & Co., BNP Paribas SA and Societe Generale
SA. Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp. are part of a
secondary group in the lending syndicate, one person said.  Jean-Marc Podvin , a spokesman for Paris-based Sanofi, said
the company’s offer stands at $69 a share and otherwise declined
to comment. Sanofi fell 38 cents, or 0.8 percent, to 49.47 euros
at the 5:30 p.m. close of Paris trading. The stock has declined
10 percent this year.  Genetic Diseases  Genzyme is the world’s  largest maker  of medicines for
genetic diseases. Its products are less likely to face generic
competitors because they’re made from living cells and are
harder to copy than traditional pills made from chemical
compounds. The therapies are designated as orphan drugs by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration because they’re for diseases
without other treatment options, giving them more patent
protection.  Chief Executive Officer  Henri Termeer  said last month that
he was open to selling Genzyme at a “fair value,” higher than
$69 a share. The company’s  stock  sank as much as 43 percent from
a 2008 high after manufacturing glitches led to product
shortages, making Genzyme vulnerable to a takeover offer and
activist investors including billionaire  Carl Icahn .  Seeking Higher Bid  Genzyme  investors  had been seeking at least $75 to $80 a
share, based on potential revenue growth from experimental
medicines and after production deficiencies responsible for drug
shortages get resolved, said Shabi, the investor.  John Lacey , a spokesman for Genzyme, declined to comment.
Viehbacher said at a conference Sept. 15 that he had met with
investors who own more than 50 percent of Genzyme and found they
were willing to sell their shares at “a reasonable price.”  Genzyme fell 38 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $71.12 at 4:24
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has
closed above the  value  of Sanofi’s offer every day since the bid
was made public Aug. 29.  Viehbacher is seeking acquisitions to replace revenue
Sanofi is losing as some of its biggest-selling products, such
as the blood thinner Plavix and the cancer drug Taxotere, face
competition from generic medicines. The French company can wring
savings from Genzyme and improve its manufacturing operations,
Viehbacher said at the Sept. 15 conference.  Icahn engineered a sale of biotechnology company ImClone
Systems Inc. to Indianapolis-based Eli Lilly & Co. for $70 a
share in 2008 after a $62 hostile bid from Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co., based in New York.  “A serious offer is more likely to induce improved
conversations,”  Michael Yee , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets,
said in an interview. He said Sanofi would need to boost its bid
“into the $70s to get started.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Albertina Torsoli  in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 