-- Sarkozy Proposes Biggest French Deficit Cut in Two Decades
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2010-09-29T12:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/sarkozy-readies-france-s-biggest-budget-deficit-reduction-in-two-decades.html
President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s
government outlined France’s biggest budget-deficit cut in two
decades to calm investor concerns and protect its top credit
rating.  The  government  shortfall will drop to 92 billion euros
($125 billion), or 6 percent of gross domestic product, next
year from 152 billion euros, or 7.7 percent, the Budget Ministry
said today. The reduction stems mainly from the end of
recession-fighting stimulus and one-time investments. Tax
revenue and spending will remain virtually unchanged.  “The investors who finance our debt are paying close
attention to our deficit plans,” Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  told journalists in Paris. “We will do what it takes”
to achieve the fiscal target.  Sarkozy’s budget may still leave his country trailing its
euro-area peers in repairing national finances after the debt
crisis. France’s deficit may exceed that of Germany, Italy,
Belgium and the Netherlands just as Sarkozy is gearing up for an
election in early 2012.  French government bond yields may increase relative to
benchmark German bunds because the nation isn’t willing to enact
austerity measures, Nomura International Plc said today.  “France’s reluctance to pursue deep spending cuts and heavy
tax rises could lead to spread widening in the medium term,” a
team of analysts led by  Nick Firoozye  in London wrote.  French Spread  In the wake of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, investors
have punished countries that failed to fix their finances. The
 premium France pays to borrow  for 10 years compared with Germany
was 37.9 basis points today, down from 55.6 basis points on June
8. Both countries have Aaa credit ratings.  France aims to keep the spread at the “low end” of the
recent range, Lagarde said today.  Among the 16 euro-area countries, Ireland and Greece will
have bigger deficits than France next year, while Portugal and
Spain will be at about the same 6 percent level, Barclays
Capital estimates. Germany will have a shortfall of 3.5 percent
of GDP, while Italy, the Netherlands and Belgium will have
deficits of 4.7 percent, 4.1 percent and 4 percent, Barclays
said.  Moody’s Investors Service said Aug. 17 that France is well
positioned to preserve its top rating, though, like its peers,
it must retain market confidence.  ‘Debt Dynamics’  “Debt dynamics have become more sensitive to market
confidence,” Moody’s said. The “tailwinds” that are keeping
borrowing costs down depend on credible budgets, Moody’s said.  Reaching the deficit target depends on economic growth of 2
percent next year, up from an expansion of about 1.5 this year.
The budget assumes an inflation rate of 1.5 percent.  “We’re really quite confident in the growth forecast,
there is no soul-searching about it,” Lagarde said.  The biggest savings will come from a drop in one-off
expenses to 2.9 billion euros from 70.5 billion euros. This
includes the end of fiscal stimulus put in place to fight the
recession and last year’s “grand loan” investment plan, which
won’t be repeated. The government will also freeze its running
expenses at 275 billion euros.  “The limited scale of the planned savings does not give a
lot of protection against any shortfall,” said Gilles Moec, an
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. An “acceleration in
the growth pace is unlikely,” he added.  U.S., U.K.  To be sure, France is far from a basket case. Its 2011
deficit will be less than the 8.3 percent of GDP the
Congressional Budget Office predicts for the U.S. and less than
the 7.5 percent planned for the U.K. in the next fiscal year.  France’s debt will stand at 84 percent of output by year-
end, compared with 118 percent for Italy and 99 percent for
Belgium, according to European Commission estimates. Germany and
the Netherlands will have debt burdens of 79 percent and 66
percent of GDP.  For Sarkozy, whose approval rating is at its lowest since
he took office in 2007, the conflicting pressures of the bond
market and the electorate leave little room for maneuver. Just
34 percent of voters hold a positive view of his performance,
down from 44 percent in January and 67 percent in summer 2007,
according to a  Viavoice poll  taken last week.  Sarkozy is “trapped between a rock and hard place: he says
he can’t let the budget and the deficit go adrift, and that he
must think about the rating of France,” said Viavoice pollster
 Francois Miquet-Marty . “Meanwhile he is losing popularity
because he cannot respond to the social demand for better
care.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at   markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  