-- Schaeuble to Return to the Hospital for Four Weeks for Treatment of Sores
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-09-28T14:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/schaeuble-to-return-to-the-hospital-for-four-weeks-for-treatment-of-sores.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  will return to the hospital this evening for about
four weeks for treatment related to his wheelchair confinement.  Schaeuble, who spent several weeks in the hospital earlier
this year, is suffering from pressure sores, Berlin-based
spokesman  Michael Offer  said today in a statement.  Schaeuble, 68, has been partially paralyzed and in a
wheelchair since being shot by a deranged man in 1990. He
underwent a routine implant procedure in January that became
aggravated after the wound didn’t heal, requiring additional
surgery and at least two hospital stays since early March.  “The experiences of the spring showed that he can also
carry out his duties from the hospital,” Offer said in the
statement. He didn’t identify the hospital. Schaeuble stayed at
the German military hospital in Berlin earlier this year.  The absence from her Cabinet of Schaeuble, the most senior
member of the government, is a blow to Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
as she attempts to reverse a decline in poll ratings to near
historic lows. Just today, Schaeuble attended Cabinet and then
briefed reporters on the government’s energy policy.  “I have the problem that my wound is in the sitting area,
and I can only sit when it’s well healed,” Schaeuble told
Germany’s SWR2 radio on April 16, as he was forced to skip a
meeting of European Union finance ministers in Madrid. He sent
his deputy,  Joerg Asmussen , in his place.  Less than four weeks later, he was taken to the hospital in
Brussels suffering from an adverse reaction to medication. On
that occasion he was replaced by Interior Minister  Thomas de Maiziere .  “The chancellor wishes Herr Schaeuble a rapid recovery and
looks forward to his speedy return to daily political life,”
Merkel’s office said in a statement. “She will keep in touch
with him for the duration of his stay in the hospital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 