-- Schwarzenegger, California Lawmakers Cancel Planned Round of Budget Talks
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-09-28T22:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/schwarzenegger-lawmakers-cancel-planned-round-of-california-budget-talks.html
California  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and top lawmakers canceled scheduled talks over
how to close a $19.1 billion budget deficit as a compromise on
easing state pension costs remains out of reach.  The governor and the Democratic and Republican leaders of
the Senate and the Assembly, known as the Big Five, had planned
to meet today after breaking from closed-door talks yesterday
without reaching an agreement. Senate President Pro Tem  Darrell Steinberg , a Democrat, Assembly Republican Leader  Martin Garrick 
and Senate Republican leader  Dennis Hollingsworth  all said
pensions remain a sticking point holding up a final agreement.  “All sides recognize that some pension reforms have to be
put in place and that the budget can’t be balanced without the
necessary pension reform,” Garrick said after leaving
Schwarzenegger’s office yesterday.  Schwarzenegger and the lawmakers announced Sept. 24 that
they had agreed to a framework to end a stalemate over the
deficit that has left the state without a budget since its
fiscal year began July 1, the longest it’s ever gone without a
spending plan. They said they aimed to complete the details of
the agreement by yesterday. Schwarzenegger has said he won’t
sign any spending plan unless lawmakers agree to roll back
pension benefits for state workers to 1999 levels.  Pension Issues  The governor has suggested limiting state pension costs by
requiring workers to contribute 5 percent more from their pay,
pushing back retirement age, and basing benefits on the three
years of highest wages instead of one.  Democrats, including Assembly Speaker  John Perez , a former
labor organizer from Los Angeles, have resisted Schwarzenegger’s
demands. They have insisted such changes be made through
contract negotiations with unions.  “We still believe that collective bargaining is the
appropriate and important way to finalize agreements with the
representatives of the state employees,” Steinberg, from
Sacramento, said after leaving the governor’s office yesterday.  Schwarzenegger, a Republican nearing the end of his term,
has already brokered similar concessions from unions for 35,000
California workers and is talks with the largest, the Service
Employees International Union.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  