-- Senator Schumer Says He Will Push Yuan Revaluation Bill After Elections
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-09-28T21:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/senator-schumer-says-he-will-push-yuan-revaluation-bill-after-elections.html
U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer  of New
York, the lead Democratic sponsor of legislation to get China to
raise the value of its currency, said he plans to seek a Senate
vote on the measure after the November elections.  “Critics of our bill say it would start a trade war with
China -- but this isn’t right because American companies already
are fighting a war for survival in China,” Schumer said today
on the Senate floor. “The issue here is not U.S. protectionism,
but China’s flouting of the rules of free trade.”  The House probably will vote on the legislation on Sept.
30, said Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat
and assistant to the Speaker. The bill has been debated after
years of lawmaker complaints that China’s weak yuan gives its
producers an unfair advantage against American manufacturers.  The measure, which would let companies petition for duties
on imports from China to compensate for what lawmakers said is
an undervalued currency, has enough support that it may be able
to pass on an expedited schedule with backing from two thirds of
lawmakers, House Majority Leader  Steny Hoyer  said today.  This “will help level the playing field for American
businesses and workers,” Hoyer said in a Washington speech.  The U.S. trade deficit with China widened to $145 billion
in the first seven months of this year, from $123 billion for
the same period in 2009. The widening deficit, unemployment
lingering at almost 10 percent and polls showing Democrats’
seats at risk heading into the Nov. 2 election have added
support for the bill, which has been discussed since 2005.  The yuan has strengthened about 2 percent against the
dollar since June 19, when China’s central bank said it would
pursue a more flexible exchange rate. That rate of gain is
“inadequate,” Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told the
panel last week. Pressure from lawmakers is helping the
administration make the case to China to raise the value of the
yuan, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 