-- Tax Incentives to Keep Jobs in U.S. Blocked in Senate
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-09-28T17:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/senate-republicans-block-tax-incentives-to-move-foreign-based-jobs-to-u-s-.html
The U.S. Senate failed to advance
legislation that would create tax breaks for companies that move
foreign-based jobs to the U.S. and penalize those that send jobs
offshore.  The 53-45 vote was short of the 60 needed to move the
measure forward; four Democrats and independent  Joe Lieberman  of
Connecticut voted with 40 Republicans against allowing formal
consideration of the bill. Debate on the measure was tinged by
partisan claims ahead of the Nov. 2 elections in which polls
show Republicans are poised to gain seats in Congress.  Democrats said Republicans were obstructing efforts to
combat “outsourcing” of U.S. jobs. Republicans said the bill
would hurt the U.S. economy and accused Democrats of trying to
change the subject from the majority party’s decision to wait
until after the election to vote on preventing income-tax
increases set to take effect Jan. 1.  “We want to export products, not jobs,” Senator  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan Democrat and one of the bill’s sponsors,
said during floor debate today. “For me, this is a fight about
whether or not we’re going to make things in America.”  The offshore-jobs legislation would waive for two years the
6.2 percent payroll tax for employees hired by U.S.-based
companies to replace workers who performed the same job
overseas. That would save companies about $1 billion in taxes
over the next three fiscal years, according to the Joint
Committee on Taxation.  Foreign Labor  The bill would deny deductions and tax credits for expenses
related to transferring an existing U.S. job abroad. It also
would raise taxes on income created by foreign labor that
replaced U.S. jobs.  The Senate Democrats voting against the bill’s advancement
were  Max Baucus  and  Jon Tester  of Montana;  Mark Warner  of
Virginia, and  Ben Nelson  of Nebraska. Lieberman, who also voted
no, caucuses with Democrats.  Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat and a sponsor
of the bill, told reporters last week the measure would use a
“carrot and a stick” to keep jobs from being moved overseas.  Senate Republicans and business groups, including the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, said the tax increases would make it harder
for U.S. companies to compete globally and would ultimately
undercut efforts to create jobs in this country.  Competing With Rivals  Iowa Senator  Charles Grassley , the top Republican on the
Senate Finance Committee, said tax increases on products
manufactured in foreign countries by U.S.-based companies, and
sold back to U.S. consumers, would hurt companies’ ability to
compete with foreign rivals.  “We’re going to lose business and lose jobs in the
process,” Grassley said.  Illinois Senator  Richard Durbin , the second-ranking
Democrat in the chamber, told reporters last week that Democrats
feel “a greater sense of urgency” to act on the offshore-jobs
bill than on extending the Bush-era income-tax cuts before the
election.  Democrats want to renew the tax cuts for families earning
up to $250,000, about 97 percent of U.S. taxpayers, and let
taxes rise for those with higher incomes. Republicans want to
keep the cuts for wealthier taxpayers as well. The tax cuts will
expire Dec. 31 if Congress takes no action.  The bill voted on today is S. 3816.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  