-- IMF Approves $494 Million for Serbia, Says Mesures Should be `Phased Out'
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-09-28T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/serbia-to-receive-494-million-imf-payment-after-fifth-review-completed.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
said it completed its fifth review of Serbia’s economic program
and approved the disbursement of $494 million.  The Washington-based fund said in an e-mailed statement
that it’s “now timely to gradually phase out emergency
arrangements introduced to support economic activity as the
financial sector is emerging from the global financial crisis.”  It also advised the authorities in Belgrade to “start
phasing out credit support programs introduced in the wake of
the crisis.”  The government gave incentives to banks in 2009,
encouraging them to offer cheaper loans to companies and
households. The 55 million euros of incentives resulted in 1.1
billion euros in total bank lending, mainly for liquidity
purposes. This year, the program should be lower by almost a
third.  This month, the IMF’s mission to Serbia said the loan
program, which sets budget targets and addresses other fiscal
issues, was on track, paving the way for the disbursement. With
today’s tranche, total disbursements have reached $2.39 billion
out of a $3.9 billion loan.  The IMF advised Serbia to speed up structural reforms to
help “strengthen medium-term growth and employment prospects,
supported by the resumption of adequate capital inflows, in
particular through foreign direct investment.”  The economy is expected to grow by 1.5 percent this year,
recovering from a 3 percent contraction in 2009. Unemployment
exceeded 20 percent this year, rising from 16.5 percent in 2009.
Full-year foreign direct investments are expected to fall to 1.1
billion euros from 1.37 billion euros in 2009.  The IMF said Serbia’s central bank was right to start
raising rates in early August in response to accelerating price
pressures, resulting from higher food prices. The bank has
raised its benchmark, the two-week repurchase rate twice since
Aug. 5, by a full point to 9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kirkham in London at 
 ckirkham@bloomberg.net 
and Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Kirkham at 
 ckirkham@bloomberg.net  