-- Rand Weakens For First Day in Three on Fears Europe Debt Crisis May Worsen
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-09-28T15:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/south-african-rand-weakens-for-first-day-in-three-on-european-debt-concern.html
The rand weakened for the first
time in three days on concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening
and after U.S. consumer confidence fell to a seven-month low,
dimming prospects for the world’s biggest economy.  South Africa’s currency declined as much as 0.8 percent to
7.0509 per dollar and traded 0.4 percent weaker at 7.0226 by
4:13 p.m. in Johannesburg, from a previous close of 6.9953.
Against the euro the rand lost 0.4 percent to 9.4640.  Moody’s Investors Service cut its rating on Anglo Irish
Bank Corp.’s senior debt to the lowest investment grade and said
it may reduce the ranking to junk unless the government
guarantees bondholders against losses. The cost to insure Irish
and Portuguese debt surged while prices of commodities fell on
concern a worsening of European government finances will hurt
the global economic recovery.  “Peripheral Europe is still looking shaky,” said  Brigid Taylor , a senior currency analyst at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg. “That impacts the rand because it causes risk
appetite to unwind as investors look to take profits and get out
of riskier, emerging market positions.”  Concerns that mounting European government debt will derail
the region’s economic recovery sparked a sell-off in emerging
market stocks and currencies between mid-April and end-May as
investors reduced holdings of higher-yielding assets.  South Africa’s currency also weakened after the Conference
Board’s  confidence index  declined to 48.5 in September, down
from 53.2 the previous month, and lower than the 52.1 reading
estimated in a Bloomberg survey. A report also showed U.S. home
prices rose at a slower pace in July from a year earlier.  Government bonds fell in South Africa, with the benchmark
13.5 percent security due September 2015 losing 10 cents to
125.84 rand. The yield on the bond increased almost 2 basis
points to 7.21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  