-- South Africa Targets Sasol, Arcelor in Cartel Breakup Push
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-09-29T11:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/south-africa-targets-sasol-arcelor-in-bid-to-break-apartheid-era-cartels.html
South Africa is stepping up efforts
to fight an unexpected legacy of apartheid: cartels in
industries from supermarkets to steel that push up prices, deter
investment and damp competition.  The Competition Amendment Act, signed into law by President
 Jacob Zuma  in August 2009, will put South Africa among a
minority of countries willing to put executives in jail for
knowingly committing antitrust violations. Only one-third of the
members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development impose such penalties.  The Competition Commission got  Sasol Ltd. , the world’s
biggest producer of motor fuel from coal, to sell almost all its
fertilizer plants in July to boost competition. The agreement
was the first in South Africa to require a company to divest
units rather than pay a fine for breaking antitrust rules.  “Any potential investor is more likely to invest in a
country where they are guaranteed fairness of opportunity in the
marketplace,”  Shan Ramburuth , chief executive officer of the
commission, said in an interview in his Pretoria headquarters.
“They’re comforted by the fact that there’ll be strong
competition regulation, ensuring that markets are not contrived
in any way and that transgressors will be dealt with.”  The initiative may help spur investment in South Africa and
curb prices for inputs, such as steel, for manufacturing
exports. The government says exports must be boosted to create
 jobs  for the one in four South Africans without work.  Better Allocation  “If you open up the market, on balance you’ll have more
competition, better allocation of resources and lower prices,”
said  Jean-Francois Mercier , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in
Johannesburg. “Greater competition is positive for the economy
as a whole.”  Only 11 countries, or a third of OECD members, have laws
that can imprison company officials in antitrust cases, said
Antonio Capobianco, a senior expert in competition law
enforcement at the Paris-based OECD, citing his own research.  South Africa joins Brazil and Indonesia as non-OECD
developing countries monitored by the group that also make
violations a criminal offense. The South African penalties,
which include jail terms of as long as 10 years, haven’t yet
come into effect.  Under U.S. law, a company can be fined $100 million, or
twice the gross gain of the violation, or twice the gross loss
to the victim. If the defendant is a big company, the fine under
South African law of 10 percent of annual sales, which is
similar to the European Union’s statute, could be “potentially
a lot higher than the U.S.,” said Keith Hylton, a law professor
at  Boston University .  Not Passive  In the U.S., company officials who receive prison sentences
of up to 10 years “committed the crime” and aren’t just
passive observers, said  Stephen Calkins , a professor of law at
 Wayne State University ’s law school in Detroit.  Many of South Africa’s cartels were built up during
apartheid, when sanctions banned trade in steel and coal and led
companies, including  Barclays Plc , to pull out of the country.  “A lot has changed, definitely for the better,” Bruce
Lyle, managing director of fertilizer maker Nutri-Flo CC, which
first complained to the commission in 2003 about excessive
prices Sasol charged it for ingredients, said in a phone
interview from the company’s headquarters in Umhlali in the
eastern Kwazulu-Natal province. “It opens up the market.”  Three Times as Many  The commission initiated 31 investigations in the year
through March 2010, involving companies such as  Tiger Brands
Ltd. , South Africa’s biggest food producer, and  Shoprite
Holdings Ltd. , Africa’s biggest grocer. That’s up from 23 in the
previous year and triple the number in the year before,
according to data from the commission.  ArcelorMittal South
Africa Ltd. , which meets 70 percent of the country’s steel
requirements, is being probed in four antitrust cases.  “The prevalence of anticompetitive behavior was much
higher than we anticipated when we started our work,” Ramburuth
said. “Collusion seems to have been very accepted behavior in
the previous period.”  Zuma last year transferred responsibility for the antitrust
regulators to Economic Development Minister  Ebrahim Patel , a
former trade unionist who has pushed for a crackdown on cartels.
To boost jobs, South Africa needs “strong and consistent action
to promote greater competitiveness” in key industries, Patel
said on July 5, following the Sasol agreement.  Confessing to Price-Fixing  Leniency applications revised in 2008 made it easier for
cartel members to seek exemption from prosecution if they
confessed to price-fixing and disclosed details of collusion.
That spurred the commission into action, allowing it to initiate
investigations, refer complaints and recommend penalties to the
 Competition Tribunal . The Competition Appeal Court is the final
arbiter in antitrust cases.  “We are seeing a commission that’s becoming increasingly
aggressive in its technique,” said Nick Altini, a director in
the competition department of law firm, Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr, a
member of Chicago-based  DLA Piper LLP , in a phone interview from
Johannesburg.  The commission’s approach, including its push to impose
maximum penalties for cartel members and investigations that
stretch on for years, has raised business concerns that
investment in South Africa may fall.  Why Invest?  “Why would people come here to invest if this is the
scrutiny they will face and you have a Competition Commission
that’s motivated by patriotism or ideology?” asked Richard
Downing, an economist at Johannesburg’s  South African Chamber of
Commerce and Industry .  Omnia Holdings Ltd. , South Africa’s largest fertilizer
maker, said June 9 that a seven-year investigation into
collusion had resulted in “significant legal costs” and
occupied “an enormous amount” of management’s time.  Rod Humphris , Omnia’s managing director, declined to comment
further, he said by e-mail.  The World Bank supports the antitrust push, saying in a
July 29 report that South Africa is still characterized by
“excessive concentration” in the economy, backing up the case
for a more “activist” competition policy.  South Africa’s four biggest lenders account for 85 percent
of total banking assets, the central bank said in a March
report, while the four largest grocers accounted for 60 percent
of industry sales last year, according to the commission. In the
U.S., the top five banks held 38 percent of deposits as of the
third quarter of 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said
in a report on its website.  ‘Proactive Position’  Johannesburg-based Sasol said in an e-mail on Aug. 20 that
its action doesn’t mean it’s guilty of the offenses. The
company, South Africa’s biggest ammonia producer, wanted to take
a “proactive position” on the investigation, which began in
2003 and had “created continued uncertainty” for its business,
Sasol said.  “This kind of remedial action is a welcome move,” said
 John Purchase , chief executive officer of the Pretoria-based
Agricultural Business Chamber, which represents banks, including
 Absa Group Ltd.  and suppliers of farming services, such as  Afgri
Ltd.  “This is not just about slapping fines, but it’s about
solving the problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 