-- South Korea Seeks to Reduce Fiscal Deficit as Recovery Boosts Tax Revenue
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-09-28T06:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/south-korea-seeks-to-reduce-fiscal-deficit-as-recovery-boosts-tax-revenue.html
South Korea’s government plans to
cut the nation’s fiscal deficit next year after an economic
recovery boosted prospects for tax revenue.  Total spending will rise 5.7 percent to 309.6 trillion won
($269.4 billion) while tax revenue will grow 8.2 percent to
314.6 trillion won, the  Ministry of Strategy and Finance  said in
its budget proposal for 2011 released in Gwacheon today. The
fiscal deficit will fall to 2 percent of gross domestic product
in 2011 from a projected 2.7 percent this year.  “Our fiscal health is improving at a faster-than-expected
pace due to the strong economic recovery,” Vice Finance
Minister Yoo Sung Kull told reporters yesterday ahead of the
release. “Our spending focus for next year is welfare and
future growth engines.”  Export growth  helped South Korea achieve the fastest first-
half economic expansion in a decade, boosting the government’s
scope to pare a fiscal deficit run up to counter the impact of
the global financial crisis. Still, the projected increase in
spending next year after a decline in 2010 may signal concern
the economy will need other props if trade gains ebb as the
world recovery slows.  The falling deficit is “very good news for the local bond
market” as it signals less government debt issuance, said Jeong
Sung Min, a fixed-income analyst at Eugene Futures Co. in Seoul.
“It’s unlikely to move the market much right now as it’s not
surprising, but it will do so over time in the long run.”  Bond Yield  South Korea’s three-year bonds were little changed after
the announcement. The yield on the 3.75 percent debt due June
2013 rose one basis point to 3.4 percent as of 2:21 p.m. in
Seoul, according to Korea Stock Exchange. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The government plans to eliminate the fiscal deficit and
post a surplus equivalent to 0.2 percent of GDP as early as 2014.
Tax revenue will increase faster than government spending amid
annual economic growth of about 5 percent between 2011 and 2014,
the finance ministry said. The calculation of the fiscal deficit
excludes state social security funds.  Moody’s Investors Service maintained South Korea’s A1 local
and foreign currency bond ratings in July partly because of
“high government financial strength,” saying there has been
“little” debt accumulation since the global financial crisis.  National debt will be 35.2 percent of GDP next year,
compared with an estimated 36.1 percent this year, and fall to
31.8 percent in 2014, today’s report showed.  Spending Breakdown  Government spending on research and development to support
future economic growth will rise 8.6 percent next year, while
spending on health and social welfare will increase 6.2 percent,
the finance ministry said. Defense spending will advance 5.8
percent, while expenditure on diplomacy will expand 9 percent.  The ministry said on Sept. 16 that it will boost childcare
and education spending for the poor by 33 percent to 3.7
trillion won in 2011. Today’s budget proposal is due to be
submitted to the National Assembly by Oct. 1.  The Bank of Korea left borrowing costs unchanged on Sept. 9,
joining counterparts from Malaysia to Australia in pausing
interest-rate increases to assess risks from slower U.S. growth
and European austerity. It will take some time to normalize the
current rate of 2.25 percent as the bank must be certain of the
world recovery, Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said after the decision.  Recent data showed  sales  at the nation’s major department
stores rose at the slowest pace in three months in August, while
 consumer confidence  declined to a 14-month low in September. The
economy grew 7.6 percent in the first half and is projected to
expand 5.9 percent this year, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  