-- South Korea Current-Account Surplus Narrowed to Four-Month Low in August
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-09-29T01:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/south-korea-s-current-account-surplus-narrowed-to-a-4-month-low-in-august.html
South Korea’s current-account
surplus narrowed to a four-month low as the value of goods
exports fell amid a holiday season that shuttered some factories.  The  surplus  was $2.07 billion in August, down from a
revised $5.82 billion in July, the Bank of Korea said in a
statement in Seoul today. The current account is the broadest
measure of international trade, tracking goods, services and
investment income.  While trade gains have fueled the expansion in Asia’s
fourth-largest economy this year, risks including elevated U.S.
unemployment and European austerity are clouding the recovery’s
outlook. The  Bank of Korea  refrained from boosting borrowing
costs this month, joining counterparts from Malaysia to
Australia in pausing rate increases to assess the world economy.  “We’ll likely continue to see a surplus in the current
account as exports, led by the IT, car and shipbuilding
industries, remain steady despite a slowing global economy,”
said Lee Sung Kwon, an economist at Shinhan Investment Corp. in
Seoul. “But the BOK needs to be more cautious about whether to
raise rates again in October because of rising uncertainties at
home and abroad.”  Governor Kim Choong Soo  left the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 2.25 percent in August and September, following a
0.25 percentage point increase in July from a record-low 2
percent. The economy expanded 7.6 percent in the first half, the
fastest pace in a decade.  Wider Surplus  The current-account surplus will likely widen significantly
in September, Lee Young Bog, an official at the Bank of Korea,
said at a press briefing in Seoul. This year’s cumulative
surplus may exceed the central bank’s 2010 forecast of $21
billion this month, he said.  The won rose 0.2 percent to 1,143.45 per dollar as of 10:03
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has
fallen 0.7 percent over the past six months, one of Asia’s worst
performers. The benchmark Kospi share index gained 0.7 percent
to 1,868.54.  The won’s weakness has helped to boost export earnings this
year at companies including  Samsung Electronics Co. , Asia’s
biggest maker of semiconductors, flat screens and mobile phones,
and  Hyundai Motor Co. , South Korea’s largest carmaker.  Trade gains may begin to slow in the fourth quarter amid
signs the won is set to rise, according to the head of the
nation’s trade agency.  ‘Critical Factor’  “The most critical factor is whether the won remains at
the current level,”  Cho Hwan Eik , president of Korea Trade-
Investment Promotion Agency, said in an interview in Seoul on
Aug. 31. The won has advanced 4.3 percent so far this month.  Total exports on a customs-cleared basis, which excludes
ships, rose 27.7 percent last month from a year earlier,
compared with a revised 27.5 percent increase in July. Imports
advanced 28.6 percent.  The surplus on traded goods narrowed to $3.69 billion last
month from a revised $7.16 billion in July, today’s report
showed. The value of goods exports fell to $38.6 billion from
$42.9 billion, led by cars and machinery.  The services deficit, which measures the flow of travel,
transport costs and royalties, was $1.78 billion in August,
compared with a revised $1.5 billion in July.  The income account had a $609 million surplus last month,
from a revised $437 million surplus in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  