-- Spain Has First General Strike in Decade as Europe Marches
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-09-29T17:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/spain-girds-for-first-general-strike-in-8-years-to-protest-zapatero-cuts.html
Spanish workers disrupted transport
and television broadcasts in the first general strike in eight
years as demonstrators marched in a dozen European cities
against government spending cuts.  More than 100,000 protesters descended on  Brussels  before a
meeting between  union  members and European Commission President
 Jose Barroso , organizers said. In Athens, rail, communications
and port workers struck. Police in Dublin made an arrest after a
truck damaged the front gates of the parliament building.  Spain’s two biggest unions said 72 percent of workers
joined the strike, including 65 percent in the energy sector and
82 percent in the airline industry, according to Jose Javier
Cubillo of the UGT union. Labor Minister  Celestino Corbacho  said
the strike had a “moderate” impact, with 7.5 percent of state
workers and “almost 100 percent” of auto workers joining the
walkout. Power demand was 17 percent below a forecast made by
grid operator  Red Electrica Corp. SA  based on usual demand, as
of 6:20 p.m.  “The strike has been an unquestionable success,”  Ignacio Fernandez Toxo , head of the CCOO union, told a news conference
in Madrid. He called on the government to abandon plans to raise
the retirement age and to revise the 2011 budget that goes to
parliament tomorrow.  Deficit Concern  Spanish unions turned against the Socialist Prime Minister
 Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero , a former ally, after he enacted
the deepest budget reductions in at least three decades and
weakened job security to cut Europe’s highest  unemployment  rate.
Zapatero’s about-face stemmed from demands from investors and
European partners that he narrow the budget shortfall after the
Greek debt crisis.  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds instead of German equivalents rose to 196 basis points
today, compared with 193 basis points yesterday and a two-month
low of 137 basis points on July 27. Moody’s Investors Service is
due to complete a review of Spain’s credit rating tomorrow, the
same day the budget goes to Parliament.  “A disappointing budget combined with an effective general
strike and a rating review on 30 September could supply that
catalyst” for investors to sell Spanish debt, said  Robert Crossley , a fixed-income strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London.  Governments across Europe are imposing austerity to rein in
deficits accrued as leaders implemented stimulus programs to
pull their economies out of the worst recession in six decades.
French unions are planning further protests against President
 Nicolas Sarkozy ’s plan to raise the retirement age, following
two strikes on Sept. 7 and 23.  Closed Kiosks  Protesters set a police car alight and torched dumpsters in
Barcelona, where eight people were arrested, a police spokesman
said. In Madrid, 38 people were detained for damaging property
and gluing up doorways, while police identified 1,500 people who
formed pickets, a spokesman for the government’s representative
in the Madrid region said in a telephone interview.  Telemadrid , the television station of the Madrid region,
stopped broadcasting because of the strike. Newspapers kiosks in
central Madrid were closed or without newspapers, even as stores
opened and the metro operated. Corbacho said 21 percent of
transport workers joined the walkout. Frankfurt airport canceled
22 flights because of the Spanish strike and  Iberia Lineas
Aereas de Espana SA  said it would operate 35 percent of its
flights.  Refineries Stable  Repsol YPF SA , the country’s biggest oil company, said
production at its refineries wasn’t disrupted.  Cia Espanola de
Petroleos SA  said its refinery in Huelva operated normally while
 EDP-Energias de Portugal SA  said its plants hadn’t been
affected. About 3.9 percent of banking staff joined the walkout,
said a spokeswoman for the Spanish Banking Association, which
represents commercial lenders.  The government had negotiated minimum services with unions,
including 25 percent services on suburban rail lines, and
Corbacho said today that agreed services were being provided.  The turnout cited by unions was higher than participation
levels forecast in a poll in  El Pais  newspaper on Sept. 5. Just
9 percent of workers “definitely” planned to join the walkout,
according to the poll, down from 15 percent in a July survey.
Fifty-five percent were sure they won’t join today’s protest, up
from 50 percent two months ago.  Talks Sought  After defending higher pensions, subsidies for new mothers
and benefits for people caring for dependents since winning
power in 2004, Zapatero  cut public  wages by 5 percent in June
and froze all but the lowest pensions for 2011.  The prime minister aims to cut the euro region’s third-
largest budget  deficit  to 6 percent of gross domestic product in
2011 from 11.1 percent last year. The budget plan will be voted
on next month in Parliament, where the ruling Socialists don’t
have a majority and are negotiating with lawmakers from smaller
parties for support.  The government has said that the strike won’t make it
change direction and the labor overhaul that unions are
protesting is already in force. Zapatero repeated today that he
wants to include unions in negotiations on an overhaul to the
pension system that he plans by the end of the year.  A public-sector strike on June 8 received the backing of 12
percent of workers, according to the government, or 75 percent
according to the two unions. Total union membership in Spain is
14 percent, according to data from the  Organization of Economic
Cooperation and Development . That compares with 24 percent in
Greece and 33 percent in Italy, the OECD figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  