-- Spain's Credit Rating Set for Moody's Cut as Economy Suffers
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-09-29T09:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/spanish-credit-rating-set-for-moody-s-cut-as-growth-slows-investors-say.html
Spain’s top Aaa credit rating, held
since 2001, probably will be cut one level by Moody’s Investors
Service as the euro region’s fourth-biggest economy struggles to
grow, according to investors managing about $700 billion.  Five out of eight money managers surveyed predicted a one-
step reduction to Aa1, with the rest forecasting a two-level cut
to Aa2. The decision may come this week after Moody’s put
Spain’s debt on review for a possible downgrade on June 30,
saying it would conclude the analysis within three months.  Moody’s said then it will take several years for Spain’s
economy to recover from the collapse of its real estate boom,
predicting  gross domestic product  will expand an average of
“slightly above” 1 percent between 2010 and 2014. A one-step
cut would put Moody’s ranking on par with Fitch Ratings, which
has a AA+ classification for the Iberian nation, while a two-
level reduction would equal Standard & Poor’s.  “The market is pretty shaky so if they get downgraded by
two, then that could have an impact,” said  Andrew Balls ,
London-based head of European portfolio management at Pacific
Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s biggest bond
fund. “We keep an eye on what rating agencies do, sometimes as
a lagging indicator, as something that can be important in terms
of market sentiment.”  Yields Decline  Spanish borrowing  costs  have declined since the Moody’s
announcement, with the yield on the 10-year bond falling to 4.23
percent today from 4.56 percent at the end of June, as stress
tests in July showed the nation’s banks needed less than 1.8
billion euros ($2.5 billion) in new capital. Yields also dropped
as the government of Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero 
implemented austerity measures to trim the budget deficit.  Spain’s central government budget deficit narrowed by 42
percent in the first eight months of the year as tax revenue
surged and spending cuts took effect. The  shortfall  fell to 3.3
percent of gross domestic product from 5.7 percent a year
earlier, the Finance Ministry said two days ago.  Bonds of so-called peripheral euro-region nations plunged
this year as a debt crisis that started in Greece spread to
other nations, prompting the European Union and International
Monetary Fund to put in place a $1 trillion financial backstop
for its members. Yields on Ireland’s 10-year bonds rose to a
 record  454 basis points above benchmark German bunds today on
concern the nation’s banks may need additional funding. The
Portuguese-German bond spread reached a euro-era high of 441
basis points yesterday.  ‘Deteriorating’ Prospects  S&P said in comments aired by Dublin’s RTE Radio 
yesterday that Ireland’s bailout of Anglo Irish Bank Corp. may 
cost more than 35 billion euros, exceeding its previous estimate.
Moody’s downgraded the senior debt of Anglo Irish on Sept. 27 to
the lowest investment grade and said it may cut it to junk 
unless the government guarantees bondholders against losses.  Moody’s cited Spain’s “deteriorating” growth prospects in
June, the challenge of implementing spending cuts and increasing
borrowing costs. The nation is likely to lose its top credit
rating,  Steven A. Hess , senior credit officer at Moody’s, said
on July 30.  Spain grew just 0.2 percent in the second quarter and 0.1
percent in the first three months of the year as  unemployment 
stayed above 20 percent, the highest in the euro-region. The
economy will shrink 0.4 percent this year, before growing 0.5
percent in 2011 and 1.4 percent the following year, according to
the median of as many as 23 economist estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Spanish debt may have a muted response to a downgrade,
because Moody’s has signaled its intentions ahead of time, said
 Toby Nangle , director of asset allocation at Baring Asset
Management in London.  ‘Well Flagged’  “When a downgrade is really well flagged, about 80 percent
of the price action tends to come through before the decision,”
said Nangle, who doesn’t hold any Spanish debt. “After the
announcement another 20 percent occurs.”  Concern about Spain’s banking system eased this month as
the nation’s lenders reduced their reliance on the European
Central Bank. They cut borrowing to 3.5 percent of assets in
August from 4.1 percent a month earlier, according to ING Groep
NV. Irish banks increased liabilities to 5.7 percent of assets
from 5.4 percent, while Portuguese banks stayed at 8.8 percent,
ING figures showed.  Zapatero faces a general strike today as unions protest the
government’s spending cuts and changes to labor rules. Finance
Minister  Elena Salgado  presents the nation’s budget to
parliament tomorrow. The ruling Socialists don’t have a majority
and are negotiating for support of its spending plan.  “Spain has been trading like AA debt for a while,” said
 Robin Marshall , who oversees about $20 billion of fixed-income
investments at Smith & Williamson Investment Management in
London, and who added to his holdings of Spanish debt last week.
“The market has got it right on Spain so far, gravitating it
toward Italy and away from Ireland and Portugal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net  