-- Sprint Lures AT&T's IPad Users With Portable Wi-Fi Hotspots
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-09-28T20:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/sprint-nextel-lures-at-t-ipad-customers-with-wi-fi-device-s-unlimited-data.html
When  Apple Inc.  began selling a
version of its iPad tablet this year that could connect
exclusively to AT&T Inc.’s third-generation wireless network,
 Sprint Nextel Corp.  saw an opportunity.  Touting the unlimited data on its portable Wi-Fi devices --
AT&T stopped offering unlimited plans in June -- Sprint has been
luring iPad owners to its network. Sprint’s palm-sized  Overdrive 
3G/4G hotspot device allows users to connect to the lower-priced
Wi-Fi-only iPad from anywhere the carrier has coverage.  Portland, Oregon-resident Rob Morgan said he’s been using
his Overdrive to connect his and his wife’s iPads without fear
of exceeding data limits. “We can use the Overdrive without
worrying, which is great,” Morgan, 66, said in an interview.
“And we can use it while driving, it’s just very convenient.”  The portable Wi-Fi devices give Sprint, as well as  Verizon
Wireless , a chance to tap into a market otherwise closed to them
through Apple’s exclusive contract with AT&T, which has
connected 500,000 iPads to its network out of 3.3 million sold.
Apple and AT&T have declined to say when their contract ends.  “IPads obviously are devices that are very popular; it’s
in our best interest to market our products that work with
those,” said Cristi Allen, a Sprint spokeswoman. She said
Sprint’s efforts to attract  iPad  owners has been “a big
success,” though she declined to give sales figures.  Tiered Pricing  In June, AT&T stopped offering $29.99 unlimited data plans
on the iPad in favor of tiered pricing starting at $25 for 2
gigabytes of data per month, with additional gigabytes of data
available for $10 each per month. The Overdrive offers unlimited
data for $59.99 per month.  A user streaming an average of one 30-minute television
show and 30 minutes of music per day would exceed their 2
gigabyte limit by month’s end, according to AT&T’s  website . That
doesn’t include any e-mails sent or received or additional
Internet browsing.  Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  has said the
Overland Park, Kansas-based carrier has no plans to end
unlimited data plans, while Verizon Wireless said it will
introduce data caps in as soon as four months.  Brenda Raney , a Verizon Wireless spokeswoman, said the
carrier’s $59.99-per-month MiFi can also connect iPad users to
its network though the Basking Ridge, New Jersey-based company
hasn’t promoted that feature. “Once customers leave the store,
they can do anything they want with it,” she said.  ‘Pretty Cool’  Fletcher Cook , an AT&T spokesman, and  Natalie Kerris , an
Apple spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Morgan said he’s found the Overdrive to deliver 3G speeds
where other carriers don’t reach, such as on 11,300-foot Mount
Hood in Oregon. “I was able to check my e-mail all the way up
there, pretty cool,” said Morgan, who runs  Barefeats.com , an
Apple enthusiast website.  The Overdrive costs $99 and the MiFi can be free, after
rebates, according the companies’ websites. That compares with a
$130 premium for iPads that can connect directly to AT&T’s
network.  In April, Sprint offered through  Best Buy Co.  a free iPad
case featuring an Overdrive-sized pocket to customers who
coupled the Wi-Fi hotspot with the tablet, said Allen. “We
completely sold out,” she said.  Sprint rose 1 cent to $4.60 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. AT&T, based in Dallas,  rose  5 cents
to $28.92. Cupertino, California-based Apple fell $4.30, or 1.5
percent, to $286.86.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  