-- Sri Lanka's Stock Rally May Enter `Blow-Off' on Stock Splits, Nomura Says
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-09-28T01:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/sri-lanka-s-stock-rally-may-enter-blow-off-on-stock-splits-nomura-says.html
Sri Lanka’s  stock rally  may enter a
“blow-off phase” as stock splits help draw individual
investors to the world’s second-best performer this year,
according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  The  Colombo All-Share Index  has climbed 103 percent this
year, the biggest gainer after Mongolia’s MSE Top 20 Index among
91 global benchmark indexes tracked by Bloomberg. The gauge has
tripled since the end of a 26-year civil war in May 2009 on
optimism that the government will be able to focus on economic
development and draw investment.  Commercial Bank of Ceylon Plc , the nation’s biggest private
lender by assets, is among at least 12 companies that have
announced share splits this year, Nomura said. The splits, along
with rising share prices, have helped boost trading, with
average daily  turnover  surging about 63 percent this quarter
from the first half, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sri Lanka’s “improved economic performance has not gone
unnoticed by local investors or by listed companies,” analysts
at Nomura led by  Sean Darby  wrote in a report. “The equity
market is beginning to exhibit signs of ‘froth’ as stock
splitting becomes more widespread to encourage retail investors
to return.”  The rally in Sri Lankan stocks has been underpinned by
accelerating economic growth, increased foreign investment and
lower interest rates. The nation’s $42 billion economy may grow
as much as 8 percent in 2010, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka said
on Sept. 21, faster than an earlier forecast for a 7 percent
expansion.  Borrowing Costs  Governor  Ajith Nivard Cabraal  has slashed the reverse
repurchase rate by three-quarters of a percentage point since
early July, taking advantage of low inflation to bolster the
economy. That contrasts with central banks in India, Malaysia
and Thailand, which have raised borrowing costs this year to
check inflation or prevent asset bubbles.  Darby said Nomura first initiated coverage of Sri Lanka
with a “bullish” stance on Oct. 15. The market will continue
to outperform its peers within markets covered by  MSCI Inc. , the
analyst also wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  