-- Sterlite Industries Asked to Close Copper Smelter on Environmental Grounds
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2010-09-28T15:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/sterlite-industries-asked-to-close-copper-smelter-on-environmental-grounds.html
Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. ,
the nation’s largest copper producer, received a court directive
today to shutter its only smelter as the government cracks down
on factories breaching environment norms.  Workers at the copper refinery at Tuticorin in the southern
Indian state of Tamil Nadu will have to be compensated,
according to the judgment of the Madras High Court. The company
is waiting  for the full text of the court order before it
decides on a future course of action, according to an e-mailed
statement.  “The Tuticorin Smelter has been operating for more than 12
years and has been in compliance with necessary rules and
regulations,” the statement said.  India is tightening environmental standards to prevent
illegal mining and protect the resources and livelihood of the
population living around the mines and factories. The government
has rejected a proposal by Sterlite’s parent  Vedanta Resources
Plc  to mine bauxite in the eastern state of Orissa and may scrap
environment clearance for its existing aluminum refinery,
hampering a planned $8 billion expansion.  Sterlite  shares  fell 0.9 percent to 176.25 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close of trading in Mumbai. The key  Sensitive Index  of
the Bombay Stock Exchange was little changed.  “There has been gross violation of environmental norms in
the Sterlite project and the High Court’s order today has
vindicated our stand,” said Fatima Babu, head of a women’s
group opposing the copper project at Tuticorin. “We now seek
criminal proceeding against the officials involved in giving
clearance to the project in the first place.”  The copper smelter set up in 1996 at Tuticorin in the
southern state of Tamil Nadu has a capacity of 400,000 metric
tons. The company plans to double the capacity to 800,000 tons
by middle of 2011, according to its annual report. The smelter
uses concentrate produced from its mines at Tasmania and other
sources. The copper business including rods, cathodes and
chemicals generated sales of 125.4 billion rupees ($2.8 billion)
last year, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  