-- Stock Buybacks Are for Dummies Except Right Now: David Pauly
-- B y   D a v i d   P a u l y
-- 2010-09-28T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/stock-buybacks-are-for-dummies-except-right-now-commentary-by-david-pauly.html
Buybacks are bunk -- usually. Chief
executive officers who repurchase their companies’ shares follow
the dictates of Wall Street, lacking the imagination to use
their cash more wisely.  Today’s low stock prices, however, open a window for
sensible buybacks.  Stocks comprising the benchmark  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
on average trade at 15 times earnings. That’s about half of
their price-earnings ratio in 2001 and compares with a P/E of 23
as recently as December.  The 30 companies that make up the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  now have an average yield of 2.6 percent, about the same
as the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note, considered a
safer, more conservative investment.  Stocks such as Intel Corp.,  McDonald’s Corp.  and Procter &
Gamble Co. now have a dividend yield that’s even higher, making
them attractive to investors who think the run in Treasuries and
other bonds is over.  CEOs, many serial repurchasers in the past, are already
leaping back into the game. Share buybacks have increased for
the last four quarters, according to Standard & Poor’s, which
does stock research along with its bond-rating activities. S&P
said it expects buybacks in 2010 to exceed $300 billion,
compared with $137.6 billion last year.  Easy Money  Many companies borrow at today’s low interest rates to
finance share repurchases.  Microsoft Corp. , the world’s biggest
software maker last week said it would borrow as much as $6
billion to finance buybacks and pay higher dividends. Though
Microsoft is cash-rich, it’s borrowing because much of the money
is tied up overseas.  ConocoPhillips , a Houston-based oil company with a market
value of about $83 billion, just arranged the sale of $2.4
billion of shares in Russia’s OAO Lukoil, earmarking the money
to repay debt and repurchase its own stock, which now yields
almost 4 percent.  For a time, at least, CEOs can buy back shares for
fundamentally sound reasons. Their shares look like bargains.
Buybacks reduce the number of shares outstanding, increasing
earnings per share. That’s what Wall Street analysts like. In
their minds, buybacks rank right up there with the firing of
workers to cut costs.  Options in Mind  Higher earnings per share tend to lift stock prices. CEOs
will tell you that this is what buybacks are all about. They
tend not to mention that the process also keeps their stock
options in the money.  Companies hot to buy back shares also do it when their
stocks are overvalued, though they can argue that by
repurchasing regularly, the average price they pay is
reasonable.  Continual demand from ongoing buyback programs puts a floor
under a company’s stock. Exxon Mobil Corp., the king of
buybacks, repurchased $142.8 billion of its stock since late
2004, according to Standard & Poor’s. That’s a lot. The oil
giant’s total stock market value is about $314 billion.  Similarly,  International Business Machines Corp. , with a
market value of about $170 billion, bought back $61.7 billion of
its shares in the same period, making it a ready buyer for
investors who wanted to sell.  Buybacks, while rational now, will continue long after
stock prices recover to a level where smart CEOs should put
their money to better use.  We’ll never know if cash spent on expansion or higher
dividends would have done a better job of increasing share
prices.  ( David Pauly  is a columnist for Bloomberg News. Opinions
expressed are his.)  To contact the writer of this column: David Pauly in
Normandy Beach, New Jersey 
 dpauly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  