-- Strauss-Kahn Sees No `Big Risk' of Global Round of Currency Devaluations
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-09-28T22:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/strauss-kahn-sees-no-big-risk-of-global-round-of-currency-devaluations.html
International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said he sees no major
danger of an escalation of currency devaluations as countries
seek to boost economic growth.  “I don’t feel today there’s a big risk of a currency war,
but that’s part of the downside risks,” Strauss-Kahn told
reporters at a briefing today at the Washington-based
institution. “It will be one of the questions that will be very
much discussed” in coming meetings of finance ministers and
chiefs of state of the Group of 20.  Japan this month sold the yen for the first time in six
years to spur exports and economic growth, joining countries
across Asia and Latin America that have tempered gains in their
currencies against the dollar. Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  yesterday warned of a “currency war” and said that his
government will buy all “excess dollars” in the market to curb
the real’s appreciation.  Strauss-Kahn said currency intervention is unlikely to be
successful. Too small an intervention doesn’t have any effect,
he said, and too large a move can trigger retaliation by trading
partners. “It’s clearly not a global solution,” he said.  The IMF still sees the Chinese yuan as “undervalued,”
Strauss-Kahn said, though it acknowledges that China is
“slowly” shifting its economy toward greater reliance on
domestic demand exports.  China’s Pledge  China has incurred international criticism for limiting
gains in its exchange rate. The yuan has risen about 2 percent
versus the dollar since the People’s Bank of China in June
pledged greater flexibility in the currency after pegging it
around 6.83 for two years.  Strauss-Kahn forecast “very uneven, still fragile” global
growth and said Europe’s rate of expansion, at about 2 percent,
probably won’t suffice to create jobs. He said Ireland and
Portugal have “real fiscal problems that they need to fix.”  John Lipsky , the No. 2 official at the fund, said global
growth in the second half of the year will fall short of the
IMF’s forecasts of a 3.75 percent annual rate.  “This
sluggishness will persist into early 2011,” he said in comments
released today.  As governments in both countries struggled to convince
investors that they can regain control of their finances, credit
quality deteriorated this month. The cost of credit-default
swaps to insure Irish and Portuguese debt has surged, breaking
away from swaps on Italy and Spain. Greece remains the riskiest
nation in Europe.  Making More Room  Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance minister, also said
that it is “fair” to make more room for emerging economies on
the executive board of the IMF. He named Turkey as an example of
a G-20 country whose accession to a board seat “would make some
sense.”  The U.S. last month unexpectedly forced a debate on which
countries sit on the institution’s board of directors, putting
pressure on Europeans to reduce the number of their seats to
give emerging economies more voice by November.  Strauss-Kahn said that this process could have happened
“in a smoother way” if the U.S., which is “targeting the
Europeans,” would have given them more time to discuss the
changes. Still, he said he expects an agreement for change.  After making progress on regulation, governments worldwide
now need to step up efforts to improve financial surveillance,
Strauss-Kahn added.  “We still have a lot to do,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  