-- Suburban Voters Sour on Obama, Threatening Democrats' Hold on U.S. House
-- B y   P a t r i c k   O ’ C o n n o r
-- 2010-09-28T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/suburban-voters-sour-on-obama-threatening-democrats-hold-on-u-s-house.html
The Paisley Shop and Genes Urban
Baby Boutique sit empty along a stretch of Lancaster Avenue in
Wayne, Pennsylvania, where the median  home price  is more than
$600,000.  The vacant storefronts in the Delaware County town serve as
a reminder that not even the  affluent  Main Line suburbs by the
Schuylkill River northwest of Philadelphia are immune to the
economic pressures afflicting the rest of the U.S.  “It’s hard to get business,” said Donna Martella, 46, who
owns Beethoven Wraps, a gift and gourmet food shop down the
street from the two shuttered stores.  Philadelphia’s once reliably Republican suburbs, which have
shifted course in recent years to provide decisive support for
Democrats, from Governor  Ed Rendell  to President  Barack Obama ,
are in play again this year.  While the  jobless rate  is lower than the 9.6 percent U.S.
average -- 9.2 percent in Delaware County in July and 8.3
percent in Bucks County -- and household income in the counties
is higher,  million-dollar homes  in places like Haverford can sit
on the market for six months or longer. About one in 650 homes
was in foreclosure in the two counties in August, compared with
the state figure of one in 842, according to  RealtyTrac Inc. , a
housing-data provider in Irvine, California.  That’s feeding broader fears about  unemployment , record
 budget deficits  and banks’ reluctance to  lend .  Retaking the House  As a result, Democrats may lose two seats they picked up as
part of the anti-Republican wave in 2006: those belonging to
U.S. Representatives  Patrick Murphy  in Bucks County and  Joe Sestak  in Delaware, who is vacating his office to pursue an
uphill Senate bid.  There are competitive congressional races this year in more
than a dozen other suburban districts nationwide where Democrats
beat incumbent Republicans in the last two elections. Republican
victories in some of those races could help the party achieve
its goal of picking up a net 39 seats to regain control of the
U.S. House.  U.S. Representative  Jim Himes  is defending turf in the
Connecticut suburbs north of New York City that Republicans held
for 40 years before he won in 2008. Outside Chicago,  Bill Foster 
and  Debbie Halvorson  face tough re-election fights. And fellow
first-termers  Alan Grayson  and  Suzanne Kosmas  are clinging to
seats in and around Orlando, Florida.  Reversal of Fortune  Two years ago, the Democrats had all the momentum.  Delaware ,  Bucks ,  Montgomery  and  Chester  counties, the
wealthiest in Pennsylvania, backed Obama in 2008, joining
suburbs throughout the U.S. whose votes were central to his
victory in the presidential campaign.  Obama won 50 percent of the nationwide  suburban vote , up 3
percentage points from what Massachusetts Senator  John Kerry 
garnered as the 2004 Democratic presidential nominee, according
to a study of exit polls by the  Pew Research Center for the
People & the Press . Obama benefited from a 6-point improvement
among self-described moderates and an 8-point jump among
households earning more than $100,000 a year, the study showed.  That same year, Democrats picked up Republican seats in the
Detroit suburbs, New Jersey towns east of Philadelphia and in
Virginia communities across the Potomac River from Washington.  In Delaware County, Sestak, 58, easily won re-election
after a surge of voter discontent had swept him into office in
2006, unseating a Republican incumbent. This year, his seat is
up for grabs after he decided to pursue a Senate bid, where
 polls show  him trailing Republican  Pat Toomey .  ‘Buyer’s Remorse’  So, too, is the seat held by fellow Democrat Murphy, 36, an
Iraq War veteran from Bucks County, where Democrats have a 44
percent to 40 percent edge in voter registration. A Franklin &
Marshall College  Poll  released Sept. 23 showed Republican  Mike Fitzpatrick  with a 14-point lead over Murphy among likely
voters.  “These are voters that care about debt and deficits,”
said  Terry Madonna , director of the Center for Politics and
Public Affairs at Franklin & Marshall in Lancaster who conducted
the poll. “Many of them are having buyer’s remorse.”  Dave Callahan, the owner of Newtown Hardware House, a 141-
year-old business in Bucks County, “was really excited” to
vote for Obama two years ago.  “Maybe I shouldn’t have done that,” said Callahan, 65. He
said he would probably vote for Republican Fitzpatrick in the
congressional election, after backing Murphy in 2008, to send a
message to Obama.  No Jobs  He said his business was down 20 percent in July and
August, compared with a year earlier, attributing the decline to
a  slow housing market .  Eleanor Gardener, an independent whose 36-year-old daughter
just lost her health insurance, voted for Obama in 2008. She’s
not sure what she’ll do this year, after watching “quite a
few” members of her family lose their jobs.  “They keep saying the jobs are coming back, but I don’t
know anyone who’s getting a job,” said Gardener, 61, an
accounting clerk from Primos, as she waited for a morning train
on a platform across the street from one of the Wawa convenience
stores that dot the landscape.  Delaware County, where Republicans hold a 3-point lead in
voter registrations, is a mix of working class and affluent.
Republicans have controlled the local governments for a
generation, even in the lower-income sections of the county,
said  Harvey Glickman , a professor emeritus at Haverford College.  Main Line Republicans  “Small business owners vote Republican because they worry
the trash won’t get picked up if they don’t,” Glickman said.  The area spawned voters who became known as Main Line
Republicans, those who favored balanced budgets. Their influence
has been undercut by a migration of Democrats from Philadelphia,
Glickman said. Other Republicans left the party because they
were opposed to increased federal spending under former
President  George W. Bush  and the war in Iraq, he said.  Closer to the city, in neighborhoods like Drexel Hill, both
Republicans and Democrats express alarm about the economy.  “People are angry,”  Frank Havnoonian , 55, a Republican
who voted for Senator  John McCain , Obama’s 2008 opponent, said
as he manned the counter of Drexel Hill Cyclery, a shop crammed
with new bicycles and old parts that bears the scratches and
grease stains of more than four decades in operation. “I say
bring back the 1950s. It was an easier time.”  Losing Confidence  In Berwyn and Radnor, large stone cottages line leafy
streets punctuated by small villages where mothers and high
school kids shop and eat. The average household income was more
than twice the national average in 2000, according to Census
data.  “This is a swing district, so you have Republicans who had
lost confidence,” said  Pat Meehan , a Republican former U.S.
attorney running to replace Sestak.  His Democratic opponent is  Bryan Lentz , a former Army
Ranger who served in Iraq. His resume was tailor-made for the
anti-Bush wave in 2006 and he won a seat in Pennsylvania’s
House.  “It was a good year to be a Democrat,” Lentz said. “And
it had a lot to do with people being fed up with what they saw
going on in Washington.”  This year, he said, voters “are fed up with bios.”  Fitzpatrick, a former U.S. representative running to
reclaim the seat he lost to Murphy in 2006, thinks the shifting
mood will make the difference this year.  “It’s better to be on the offensive than the defensive,”
Fitzpatrick said, citing Murphy’s votes in favor of the health-
care overhaul and the $814 billion economic stimulus package.  Anti-Incumbent  Still, Murphy had about $1 million more  cash-on-hand  than
Fitzpatrick as of June 30, according to Federal Election
Commission data.  Both Republicans Meehan and Fitzpatrick champion an
extension of all Bush-era tax cuts, while pledging to bring down
the deficit. Meehan released a seven-step plan to create jobs
that included the extension or creation of six tax cuts,
including those on capital gains and corporate income, and tax
credits for businesses that hire new employees.  “My particular focus right now is that we do not talk
about raising taxes in this kind of environment,” Meehan said.  Back in Wayne, a lot of voters are tired of politicians.  “I’m going to vote against every incumbent,” said Roger
Galczenski, 64, the owner of Wayne Sporting Goods down the
street from Beethoven Wraps. “I don’t care if they’re
Republican or Democrat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick O’Connor  in Washington at 
 poconnor14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  