-- Sudan's Sudapet in Talks to Win Rights to Iraqi Oil Fields, Official Says
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-09-28T14:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/sudan-s-sudapet-in-talks-to-win-rights-to-iraqi-oil-fields-official-says.html
Sudan National Petroleum Corp,
Sudan’s state-run oil company, and its partners are in talks
with the Iraqi government about acquiring concessions in the
Middle Eastern country, a Sudapet official said.  Sudapet is interested in small or medium-sized fields, Ali
Faroug Abbas Shahin, Khartoum-based Sudapet’s senior vice
president, said in an interview in Cape Town today. Sudapet has
also submitted bids for blocks in Syria and is looking for
opportunities in Uganda and elsewhere in Africa, he said.  Sudapet plans to raise its equity ownership in joint
ventures in Sudan through acquisition and has about $40 million
available to do so. Sudan will acquire an additional 26 percent
stake in its venture with  Petroliam Nasional Bhd , or Petronas,
and other companies in Block 8 to take control of that business,
Shahin said.  The central African country produced about 480,000 barrels
of oil a day in 2008, exporting 394,000 barrels a day to Asian
markets and consuming the rest, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration’s  website . Because of its limited
technical and financial resources, Sudapet often develops joint
ventures with foreign companies in oil projects and acts as a
minority shareholder, according to the website.  Foreign companies involved in Sudan’s oil industry are
primarily Asian, led by China National Petroleum Corp., India’s
Oil and Natural Gas Corp., and Malaysia’s Petronas.  Sudapet will be a “fully fledged” petroleum company by
the end of 2011, Shahin said. The company has joint ventures in
four producing assets with a combined 500,000 barrels a day in
oil-equivalent production, he said.  Sudan has attended Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries meetings as an observer country in the past.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  