-- Swiss Stocks Are Little Changed; Credit Suisse Shares Decline
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2010-09-28T16:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/swiss-stocks-fluctuate-credit-suisse-falls-petroplus-gains.html
Swiss stocks closed little changed
as Credit Suisse Group AG dropped on concern some European
countries may struggle to fund themselves, while Petroplus
Holdings AG gained following an analysts upgrade.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most
actively traded companies slipped less than 0.1 percent to
6,334.38 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, after earlier losing
as much as 1.3 percent and climbing as much as 0.6 percent. The
broader  Swiss Performance Index  rose less than 0.1 percent.  “There is this nervousness in the market,” said  Mark Bon ,
who helps oversee $750 million at Canada Life Ltd. in London.
“The turnaround this morning gives you a little bit more
confidence that where there is a bit of weakness, people take
the opportunity to buy into that weakness.”  Irish and Portuguese bonds retreated today, sending the
yield premium investors demand to hold the securities instead of
benchmark German bunds to records. The cost of insuring against
default on Irish government debt for five years rose 30.5 basis
points to a record 519, according to data provider CMA.  The SMI has gained 2.5 percent in September. That compares
with advances of 5.8 percent and 8.9 percent, respectively, for
the Euro Stoxx 50 Index and the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. Swiss stocks extended losses today after a gauge of
confidence among American consumers fell more than expected in
September.  Banks Drop  Credit Suisse , the second-biggest Swiss bank by assets,
fell 1 percent to 42.9 francs. Zurich Financial Services AG,
Switzerland’s largest insurer, lost 1 percent to 230.9 francs. A
measure of bank stocks was the second-worst performer among 19
industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index today, dropping
0.9 percent.  Petroplus, Europe’s largest independent refiner, climbed
2.3 percent to 12.06 francs. The stock was raised to
“outperform” from “neutral” at Credit Suisse, which still
cut its price estimate on the shares to 17.5 francs from 21.5
francs previously.  “While we believe a margin recovery is slow in the making,
we see the recent underperformance as excessive,” Credit Suisse
wrote in a report, adding that the company is unlikely to breach
debt covenants and that the shares “reflect a more-than-full
write-off of the Reichstett” refinery in France. Such a write-
off is “an unlikely scenario, in our view.”  Syngenta AG, the world’s biggest maker of agricultural
chemicals, dropped 0.9 percent to 253.9 francs. Shares in U.S.
rival  Monsanto Co . slid as much as 8.5 percent in New York after
Jefferies Group Inc. said the company’s SmartStax corn hybrids
are presenting weaker-than-expected results.  Temenos Group AG rose 2.2 percent to 30 francs. The Geneva-
based banking-software maker agreed to acquire Odyssey Group SA
for $81 million, it said in a statement yesterday after markets
closed. Temenos will also assume Odyssey’s debt obligations of
about $20.3 million, the release said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 