-- Switzerland's Franc Reaches Record Versus Dollar as U.S. Confidence Drops
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-09-28T15:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/swiss-franc-advances-versus-euro-as-economic-data-outpaces-europe-growth.html
The franc strengthened to a record
against the dollar for the second time in five days as U.S.
consumer confidence fell to the lowest level in seven months,
stoking demand for the Swiss currency as a haven.  The franc also climbed against the euro amid growing
concern about Ireland’s finances. The Conference Board’s
September  confidence index  declined to 48.5, lower than the 52.1
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The Swissie is the perfect alternative for someone who
wants to exit the dollar and does not want to go into the euro,
with all its periphery problems and event risk,” said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , head of foreign-exchange strategy at Commerzbank AG
in Frankfurt. “This very weak consumer confidence number means
more quantitative easing, buying Treasuries, is likely, so it
weakens the dollar across the board.”  The franc strengthened as much as 1.2 percent to 97.38
centimes, according to Bloomberg data, surpassing the 97.80
level set last week. It traded at 97.69 centimes as of 3:55 p.m.
in London. It appreciated 0.2 percent against the euro to
1.3232.  Investors traditionally buy the franc during times of
economic turmoil because of the perceived stability of
Switzerland’s economy and current account surplus, and offload
the currency when they want to take on more risk.  The franc has climbed 5.1 percent this year against a
basket of currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes.  Consumption Index  The franc was also helped as a Swiss  consumer gauge  rose to
the highest in more than two years, indicating the nation’s
recovery is outpacing growth in Europe.  UBS AG ’s  index of
consumption , which aims to predict developments about three
months ahead, climbed to 1.95 in August from a revised 1.88 in
July.  “Every time we see Swiss economic data coming out at or
better than expectations, this decreases the deflation risk”
and increases the probability of higher Swiss interest rates in
the future, boosting demand for the currency, said Leuchtmann.  Switzerland’s economic recovery is gathering strength as
 unemployment  is falling, encouraging consumers to step up
spending. The jobless rate held at the lowest since June 2009 in
August and retail sales increased the most in more than a year
in July. The Swiss government on Sept. 16 raised its outlook for
2010 growth to 2.7 percent from 1.8 percent.  “Low interest rates and an improvement in the labor
market, as well as the ongoing increase in the permanent
resident population, should continue to support private
consumption,” UBS said. Its consumer indicator is based on new
car sales, retail sales, hotel stays by Swiss residents,
consumer confidence and credit-card transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  