-- Synagogue Bomb-Plot Jurors Shown Video of Simulated Explosion
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-09-28T19:50:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/synagogue-bomb-plot-jurors-shown-video-of-fbi-s-simulated-explosion.html
About five months after arresting
four men for plotting to bomb New York City synagogues, the FBI
blew up two cars at its Virginia headquarters to demonstrate the
damage the explosions would have caused.  Prosecutors today showed jurors at the trial of the men a
video of one test, in which Federal Bureau of Investigation
agents detonated a Mazda 626 sedan loaded with 75 pounds of the
plastic explosive C4 -- similar to the improvised explosive
devices the defendants are accused of planning to use.  The explosion destroyed the car and about 30 plastic human-
shaped targets placed around the vehicle, and scattered pieces
of debris as far as 240 feet away, testified Richard Stryker, a
supervisory special agent with the explosives unit at FBI
headquarters in Quantico, Virginia.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan rejected a
motion not to introduce the video into evidence by  Vincent Briccetti , an attorney for defendant James Cromitie, who argued
that such an explosion would never have occurred because the
defendants were using bombs that had been rendered inoperable by
the FBI.  The four defendants, Cromitie, 44, David Williams, 29, Onta
Williams, 34, and Laguerre Payen, 28, all of Newburgh, New York,
are accused of plotting to plant bombs outside a synagogue and a
Jewish community center in the Bronx section of New York City
and fire heat-seeking missiles at military planes at Stewart
International Airport.  Informant  The men were working with a confidential informant, posing
as a member of the Pakistan-based terrorist group  Jaish-e-
Mohammad , who had supplied them with bombs and missiles that had
been rendered inert by the FBI. They were arrested in a
coordinated sting in the Riverdale section of the Bronx on May
20, 2009.  The charges against the men include conspiracy and
attempted use of weapons of mass destruction in the U.S. They
face as long as life in prison if convicted. The trial began
Aug. 23 before McMahon in federal court.  The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-00558, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 