-- Syria, U.S. to Continue `Constructive Dialogue' to Repair Diplomatic Ties
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2010-09-28T07:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/syria-u-s-to-continue-constructive-dialogue-to-repair-diplomatic-ties.html
Syrian Foreign Minister  Walid Al- Muallem  and U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  agreed to
continue “constructive dialogue” between their countries “to
remove hurdles” preventing the normalization of ties.  The two officials, who met yesterday in New York, discussed
the Middle East peace process and the U.S. reiterated the
commitment of President  Barack Obama  to work toward a
comprehensive agreement, the state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency 
reported.  “Syria is waiting for tangible acts and not just words
from Israel that it wants peace,” Muallem said, according to
the agency.  Indirect peace talks between Israel and Syria, mediated by
Turkey, broke down in December 2008 when Israel began a three-
week military offensive in the Gaza Strip that it said was aimed
at stopping Islamic militants from firing rockets into southern
Israel. The previous round of talks had collapsed in 2000 over
the terms for Israel to return the Golan Heights, which it has
occupied since 1967.  The two officials discussed the security and stability of
Iraq and the need to form a national unity government there with
the participation of all parliamentary blocs that won seats in
the legislative elections that took place in March.  Muallem and Clinton also called for stability in Lebanon,
where tension has increased recently because of a United Nations
 tribunal  investigating the 2005 assassination of former Lebanese
premier  Rafiq Hariri .  The killing of Hariri caused a souring of relations between
Lebanon and Syria, which have since improved. An initial UN
investigation implicated four senior pro-Syrian Lebanese
security officials in the murder. All four were released last
year by the tribunal because of a lack of evidence. Syria has
denied any involvement. The  UN  tribunal set up to try those
responsible for the assassination has not yet charged anyone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Massoud A. Derhally  in Beirut, Lebanon at   mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 