-- Pound Falls, Gilts Advance After BOE's Posen Says More Easing Is Warranted
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-09-28T16:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/u-k-10-year-gilt-yields-stay-near-three-week-low-before-cbi-sales-report.html
The pound weakened against the euro
and U.K. government bonds rose after Bank of England policy
maker  Adam Posen  said the central bank should resume its asset-
purchase program to boost the economy.  Sterling tumbled to its weakest in more than four months
against the euro. Monetary policy “should continue to be
aggressive about promoting recovery, and, subject to further
debate, I think further easing should be undertaken,” Posen
said in a speech today in Hull, England. European Central Bank
Executive Board Member  Juergen Stark  told reporters in Istanbul
that policymakers are progressing with their exit from non-
standard measures to boost the 16-nation economy.  “This will be something that puts pressure on sterling,
especially as we aren’t seeing similar things from the European
Central Bank,” said  Steve Barrow , London-based head of Group of
10 foreign-exchange research at Standard Bank. “He seems to be
advocating a similar line to what the Fed is taking, which is
that they don’t like weak growth, therefore you should restart
monetary easing in order to strengthen it.”  The pound fell to 85.88 pence as of 4:20 p.m. in London,
the weakest level May 25. It slipped 0.2 percent to $1.5790,
after earlier losing as much as 0.7 percent.  Posen’s remarks come a day after his colleague  Andrew Sentance  made his third defense in a week of his unsuccessful
bid for the Monetary Policy Committee to raise the benchmark
interest rate to counter inflation. The International Monetary
Fund also said yesterday the Bank of England should restart its
asset-purchase program.  Bond Yields  The pound has declined 4 percent this year against its
developed-country peers this year, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  It has fallen 4.7 percent versus the euro since the end of
June amid speculation that planned budget cuts by the government
will stifle the economic recovery, making it more likely the
Bank of England will keep the benchmark rate at a record low of
0.5 percent and print more cash to boost the economy.  U.K. 10-year government bond yields dropped 4 basis points
to 2.94 percent, the lowest in three weeks. The  two-year gilt
yield  was little changed at 0.65 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net ;
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  