-- U.K. Growth Fueled by Jump in Government Spending
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-09-28T10:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/u-k-grows-at-fastest-pace-in-nine-years-fueled-by-government-spending.html
The U.K. economy’s fastest quarter
of growth in nine years was fuelled by rebounding consumer
spending and inventories and the biggest jump in government
spending since 2008.  Gross domestic product  expanded 1.2 percent in the three
months through June from the first quarter, unrevised from a
previous measurement, the Office for National Statistics said
today in London. The result matched the median forecast of 27
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The International Monetary Fund yesterday cut its 2011
economic growth forecast for the U.K. and said the Bank of
England should be ready to add more stimulus if the recovery
falters. Britain faces the prospect of the biggest spending cuts
since World War II to tackle its record budget deficit.  “The more the contribution of government now, the more
we’re going to miss it when it’s taken away,”  Peter Dixon , an
economist at Commerzbank AG in London, said in a telephone
interview. “We’re going to see much slower growth.”  The pound rose as much as 0.2 percent against the dollar
after the report, and traded at $1.5866 as of 11:30 a.m. in
London. The yield on the benchmark two-year government bond was
up 1 basis point today at 0.647 percent.  In the third estimate of GDP for the second quarter, the
statistics office revised up its measure of government-spending
growth to 1 percent from 0.3 percent because of late data,
mostly from central government. That was the biggest increase in
six quarters.  Investment, Spending  Fixed investment climbed 1.4 percent, up from a 2.4 percent
drop previously measured, the statistics office said. Consumer-
spending growth was unchanged at 0.7 percent. Inventories
increased by 88 million pounds ($140 million), the first gain in
seven quarters. Business investment rose 0.7 percent in the
quarter, officials said in a separate report.  Consumer spending contributed 0.4 percentage point to
growth, government spending added 0.2 percentage point, while
fixed investment and inventories together added 0.6 percentage
point, the statistics office said.  A U.K. retail sales index rose to the highest level in more
than six years in September, the Confederation of British
Industry said in a separate report today. Retailers saying
volumes rose from a year earlier outnumbers those reporting
declines by 49 percentage points.  Construction Jump  Statistics officials revised up construction growth to 9.5
percent, the most since 1963, from the 8.5 percent prior result.
While industrial production and manufacturing were unchanged,
services expansion was revised down by 0.1 percentage point to
0.6 percent, the statistics office said.  The IMF yesterday forecast U.K. growth of 2 percent in
2011, compared with a prediction in July of 2.1 percent.  “If the recovery were to weaken and increase
disinflationary pressure, asset purchases should resume,” the
fund said in a report. “Conversely, the central bank must stand
ready to start a gradual tightening if output recovers apace and
inflation continues to surprise on the upside.”  Recent data suggest the slowdown has already started. U.K.
house prices dropped the most in 18 months in September, and the
number of claims for unemployment benefits rose in August for
the first time in seven months.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, the nation’s biggest
government-controlled bank, said this month it will eliminate
3,500 U.K. jobs to reduce costs. The Edinburgh-based lender
swung into profit in the first six months of the year for the
first time since 2007.  Budget Cuts  The Conservative-led coalition government is preparing
expenditure cuts and tax increases totaling 113 billion pounds
to reduce a deficit that’s reached 11 percent of economic
output. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will set
budgets for each department on Oct. 20.  “It’s clear if we were to divert from that credible plan -
- as some people have suggested we should -- that would push the
economy back into instability,” Osborne told Bloomberg
Television yesterday.  Bank of England policy makers signaled they’re moving
closer to adding more stimulus to the economy after they held
their bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds and left the
benchmark interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent,
according to minutes of the Sept. 9 meeting published last week.  The household savings ratio, a measure of post-tax income
hoarded by consumers, fell to 3.2 percent, the lowest since the
third quarter of 2008, the statistics office said.  The current account deficit narrowed to 7.4 billion pounds
in the second quarter as income surged, a separate report
showed. That was down from a revised 11.3 billion pounds in the
first three months of the year, which was the largest gap since
the third quarter of 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  