-- U.K.'s Labour Moves From Rivals' Split to Sibling Psychodrama
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-09-29T08:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/u-k-s-labour-moves-from-rivals-split-to-milibands-sibling-psychodrama.html
Britain’s Labour Party, dominated
for most of the past two decades by the fractured alliance of
 Tony Blair  and  Gordon Brown , has moved on -- to a battle between
two brothers, Ed and  David Miliband .  The 40-year-old  Ed ’s surprise victory over his older
brother in Labour’s leadership election Sept. 25 left the
party’s annual conference in Manchester “numb,” according to
lawmaker  Richard Caborn . Today, David must decide whether to
remain in frontline politics by being a candidate in a vote to
choose Ed’s team of opposition spokesmen.  Supporters including former Chancellor of the Exchequer
 Alistair Darling  have urged David, 45, to stay on. Fresh in the
minds of David and other party members, though, is the story of
how things deteriorated between the last two men to fight for
control of Labour. In his memoir, published this month, Blair
described how his relationship with Brown went from “intimacy”
to “difficult, then fraught and finally dangerous.”  “It risks being like Blair and Brown again, except this
time they really are brothers,” said  Steve Fielding , director
of the Center for British Politics at Nottingham University.
“If he stays, people will be looking for any nuance of
difference between them. It might be for the best interests of
everyone if David just walks away.”  ‘His Decision’  In a series of radio and television appearances this
morning, Ed said it was entirely David’s choice and refused to
answer directly when questioned whether he already knew what his
brother had decided.  “He’ll make a big contribution to politics in the future
and people have different ways of doing it; either inside the
shadow Cabinet or outside the shadow Cabinet, but I think that’s
his decision,” Ed told BBC1 television. He said he didn’t think
“it would cast a shadow” over Labour if David quit.  The difficulty is heightened by the nature of the victory
by Ed, a close aide to Brown for five years. David, a protege of
Blair, received more votes in two sections of Labour’s electoral
college, from party members and lawmakers. Even so, Ed outscored
him in the third section, the labor-union members, by just
enough to give him 50.65 percent of the overall vote.  While David immediately urged the party to rally behind his
brother, the conference was stunned.  ‘Surreal Atmosphere’  “It was a surreal atmosphere,” Caborn, who had supported
Ed, said yesterday. When David first appeared on the conference
platform two days after the result, he was greeted by a standing
ovation.  After an off-the-cuff address that drew on his planned
victory speech, and in which he assured his listeners, “I will
be fine,” those in the hall rose to their feet and cheered
again as the two brothers embraced.  Earlier that day, Ed had insisted there was no rift with
his brother.  “There is no psychodrama,” he told reporters. “David and
I have been extremely close during this contest, before the
contest and after this contest, and the graciousness he has
shown since Saturday speaks volumes about him as a person.”  Backstage,  according to the BBC , things were more
difficult. David’s wife Louise was in tears, it reported, and
the two men held a brief private meeting.  ‘That’s a Lie’  It was in the same Manchester conference center exactly
four years ago that Brown, having finally forced Blair to set a
retirement date so he could succeed him as premier, protested
his closeness to the other man, while Blair’s wife was heard to
remark, “Well, that’s a lie.”  In his book, “A Journey,” Blair described the decline of
his friendship with Brown, comparing them at the start to
“lovers desperate to get to lovemaking” and then moving
through the “shock and betrayal” Brown felt when Blair moved
past him in 1994 to lead the party.  This year’s rift comes as the new leader has just three
weeks to marshal his team and prepare a strategy for attacking
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition of Conservatives and
Liberal Democrats when it outlines on Oct. 20 how it will reduce
spending to narrow a  record budget deficit .  “There won’t be a unified view in the Tory high command
about whether David Miliband’s departure is good or bad for the
coalition,” former Conservative lawmaker  Matthew Parris  said in
an interview in Manchester. “Some will see him as a strong and
reassuring figure whose loss weakens the opposition, and they’ll
be cheering. Others had been looking forward to a continuing
psychodrama in which every twitch of David’s eyebrow signified a
new Labour split. They’ll be sorry he’s gone.”  In the Bar  Ed began his keynote conference address yesterday with
another tribute to his brother’s “graciousness” in defeat.
That sentiment wasn’t shared by all David’s allies. While Ed’s
staffers give high-fives and hugged each other in front of the
stage as the speech finished, a small group of David’s had
decided they couldn’t face going into the hall and watched on
television instead from a nearby bar.  David left the conference yesterday after his brother’s
speech. A lip reader watching him during the speech for  ITV News 
caught his reaction as his brother described the 2003 invasion
of Iraq, which David backed as a lawmaker before Ed had entered
Parliament, as “wrong.”  “You voted for it; why are you clapping?” David asked
Labour Deputy Leader  Harriet Harman , according to ITV, as his
own hands stayed still. “I am clapping because, as you know, I
am supporting him,” she replied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Manchester, England, or  rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 