-- Stocks, Gold Contrast With Bonds on Recession Redux Chances: Chart of Day
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-09-28T13:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/u-s-stocks-gold-contrast-with-bonds-on-recession-repeat-chart-of-day.html
The best September for U.S. stocks
since 1939, record gold prices, copper at a five-month high and
tighter credit spreads are sending a bullish signal about the
economy that’s in contrast to the pessimism in the Treasury
market, according to Strategas Research Partners.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and gold and copper prices have each climbed higher in
September, while the yield on 10-year Treasuries remains near
its record low of 2.0352 percent. The spread between investment-
grade corporate bonds and government bonds has also tightened to
177 basis points from more than 700 at the start of 2009,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Bloomberg data.  The dichotomy of the Treasuries’ low yield compared with
the equities and commodities markets shows a difference of
opinion about whether the world’s largest economy will enter its
second recession in three years. August reports beat estimates
for nonfarm payrolls and durable goods excluding transportation
equipment, while the Federal Reserve said this month sluggish
growth and the risk of deflation may prompt further steps to
ease monetary policy.  “We can’t call a situation where stocks, bonds and gold
all work at the same time a stable macroeconomic equilibrium,”
a group of analysts led by  Jason Trennert , chief investment
strategist at Strategas Research Partners, wrote in a note
yesterday. “One could guess that the potential for future
quantitative easing on the part of the Fed has dissuaded many
speculators from betting against bonds and emboldened them to
buy risk-assets.”  The S&P 500 has fluctuated between its 2010 high of
1,217.28, reached April 23, and the July 2 low of 1,022.58, as
better-than-projected corporate profits contrasted with
government reports signaling a slower economic recovery. Gold
climbed to $1,301.60 an ounce last week to mark the record high,
while copper advanced to $3.644 per pound, the highest price in
five months.  The U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 1.9 percent
annual rate this quarter and will expand 2.3 percent in the
October-to-December period, according to the average forecast of
63 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Earnings at S&P 500
companies will rise an average 24 percent and 31 percent in the
same quarters, respectively, according to analyst estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 