-- Home Prices in U.S. Cooled in July After Tax Credit Expired
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-09-28T14:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/u-s-home-prices-cooled-in-july-after-tax-credit-ended-case-shiller-says.html
Home prices in 20 U.S. cities rose
at a slower pace in July from a year earlier as the end of a
government tax credit hurt sales.  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values increased 3.2
percent from July 2009, the smallest year-over-year gain since
March, the group said today in New York. The gauge is a three-
month average, which means the July data are still being
influenced by transactions in May and June that may have
benefitted from the incentive.  Unemployment  close to a 26-year high and mounting
foreclosures will probably weigh on the housing market for the
rest of the year. With joblessness projected to average more
than 9 percent through 2011, some households will continue to
have trouble making mortgage payments, indicating foreclosures
will remain a hurdle for property values.  “Now that we’re getting data that’s starting to show some
post-tax-credit information, we’re beginning to see some
weakness on the surface,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S.
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Washington. “Sales have
come off and the concern is that you’re going to see prices
follow.”  Consumer confidence dropped more than forecast this month
on growing concern over the outlook for jobs and wages, another
report today showed. The New York-based Conference Board’s
sentiment gauge fell to 48.5 in September, the lowest in seven
months, fro 53.2.  Market Reaction  Stocks dropped after the confidence report. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent to 1,139.24 at 10:43 a.m. in
New York. Treasury securities climbed, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down to 2.48 percent from 2.53 percent
late yesterday.  Economists projected prices would rise 3.1 percent year
over year, according to the  median  of 28 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey. Estimates ranged from increases of 2
percent to 4.2 percent.  The gauge dropped 0.1 percent in July from the  prior month 
after adjusting for seasonal variations, the first decrease
since March. Unadjusted prices climbed 0.6 percent from June.  The year-over-year measure provides better indications of
trends in prices, the group has said. The panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who created the index.  More Declines  Housing is “bouncing along the bottom,” Case said in a
radio on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “It’s
stopped the freefall we saw every month. I don’t think anyone is
predicting it’s going to go up very much.”  Ten of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-year
increase, led by an 11 percent gain in San Francisco. That left
10 cities showing a decrease, up from five in June, led by a 4.9
percent drop in Las Vegas.  Compared with the prior month, 12 of the 20 areas covered
showed an increase on an unadjusted basis, led by a 1.6 percent
gain in Detroit.  “Anyone looking for home prices to return to the lofty
2005-2006 might be disappointed,”  David Blitzer , chairman on
the index committee at S&P said in a statement. “Judging from
the recent behavior of the housing market, stable prices seem
more likely.”  Today’s report contrasts with figures last week from the
Federal Housing Finance Agency that showed home prices dropped
3.3 percent in July from a year earlier, the eighth consecutive
 decline . While both are based on repeat sales data that compares
prices of the same properties over time, the FHFA data is based
on loans that conform to guidelines set by Fannie Mae or Freddie
Mac.  Credit’s Influence  A government tax credit of as much as $8,000 gave housing a
temporary lift in late 2009 and early this year and helped
prices stop falling. The incentive required contracts be signed
by the end of April and closed by June. The closing deadline has
since been extended to the end of this month. Since then, the
industry has struggled, helping explain why builder shares are
depressed.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Homebuilding  index has
declined 3.1 percent so far this year, compared with a 2.4
percent gain in the broader S&P 500.  Sales of new homes in August held at a 288,000 annual rate,
matching July as the second-lowest in data going back to 1963,
Commerce Department figures showed Sept. 24.  Unemployment Outlook  After averaging 9.3 percent in 2009, joblessness this year
will average 9.6 percent and 9.2 percent in 2011, according to
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg this
month. The last time unemployment exceeded 9 percent for three
consecutive years was from 1939 to 1941.  The lack of jobs is also one reason  foreclosures  are
climbing. Home seizures reached a record in August for the third
time in five months, RealtyTrac Inc. said Sept. 16.  The Obama administration said Aug. 30 it planned to
announce a proposal for an emergency loan program to help the
unemployed avoid default. The plan would also include a
government mortgage refinancing effort to lower monthly mortgage
payments for Americans facing foreclosure.  Orders at KB Home, a California builder focused on first-
time buyers, fell 39 percent after the deadline for signing a
contract to qualify for the federal tax credit expired. Rising
jobless rates and foreclosures make it difficult to forecast
future sales,  Jeffrey Mezger , the company’s chief executive
officer, said Sept. 24.  “The housing market continues to face significant
headwinds from high unemployment and foreclosures, which are
impeding a broader recovery, and recent net order trends in the
homebuilding industry have injected additional caution into our
near-term outlook,” Mezger said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christohper Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  