-- Deep-Water Drilling Ban May End `Soon,' U.S. Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2010-09-28T14:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/u-s-may-lift-ban-on-deep-water-drilling-soon-lawyers-for-salazar-say.html
U.S. Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  may lift the federal ban on deep-water oil drilling
“soon,” now that the measure has met some of its goals, the
government said in court papers.  Salazar imposed new rules on offshore drilling in waters
deeper than 500 feet on July 12, after a New Orleans judge found
an earlier moratorium too broad. The rules set multiple
milestones to be reached before drilling may resume, said
attorney  Ignacia S. Moreno , in a court filing last night.  “Several of these milestones have been met or are likely
to be reached in the coming days,” Moreno said in a request to
delay a hearing in a lawsuit challenging the ban. “The
secretary is likely to take action soon on whether and how he
will lift the current deepwater drilling suspension.”  President Barack Obama imposed the first six-month
moratorium on deep-water drilling on May 28 in reaction to the
BP Plc Gulf of Mexico oil spill, the worst in U.S. history. U.S.
District Judge  Martin Feldman  overturned that ban and is
considering a lawsuit challenging a second imposed in July.  The U.S. asked Feldman to postpone a hearing scheduled for
tomorrow over this second challenge, while allowing the
government to file a status report on regulators’ activities.
The milestones that have been met include containment and
killing of the BP well and completion of public hearings on the
spill, Moreno said.  Ensco Offshore  Sean O’Neill , a spokesman for drilling contractor  Ensco
Offshore Co. , which sued to stop the second ban, didn’t
immediately return a call today seeking comment on the
government’s request.  The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
Enforcement, the agency that oversees deep-water drilling, “is
poised to publish interim final safety regulations that will
impose standards and requirements that are critical to the
safety of offshore operations,” the government said in the
court filing. These regulations will address “issues regarding
wellbore integrity and well control equipment.”  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: David E.
Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 