-- Racketeering Suit Against Blavatnik Over Russian Oil Deal Fails on Appeal
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-09-28T19:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/u-s-appeals-court-afffirms-dismissal-of-suit-against-access-blavatnik.html
Norex Petroleum Ltd. can’t use U.S.
racketeering law to sue billionaire  Leonard Blavatnik  and his
Access Industries Holdings LLC over the acquisition of an
interest in a Russian oil venture, a U.S. appeals court ruled.  Norex, a Cypriot company with an office in Calgary, claimed
that New York-based Access and other defendants deprived it of a
majority interest in Yugraneft Corp., a unit of  BP Plc ’s Russian
venture, through illegal means including the bribery of Russian
officials and corrupt Russian bankruptcy proceedings.  A lower court dismissed the case. A U.S. appeals court in
Manhattan today upheld the dismissal, citing a June ruling by
the Supreme Court that limits the reach of civil claims for acts
occurring outside the country.  “This decision should make it harder for wholly non-U.S.
disputes to be brought to U.S. courts for resolution” under the
U.S. civil racketeering statute, said  Owen Pell , a lawyer at
White & Case LLP who argued the appeal on behalf of the
defendants.  Norex is disappointed in the decision and considering
whether to appeal further, said Bruce Marks, a lawyer for the
company.  Norex, controlled by businessman  Alex Rotzang , said in its
2002 suit that Access and other defendants sought to seize
control of the Russian oil producer. Other defendants included
London-based BP, Europe’s second-largest oil company.  ‘Slim Contacts’  The “slim contacts” of the racketeering activity alleged
by Norex were “insufficient to support extraterritorial
application” of the law, the appeals panel wrote.  Access is a closely held company controlled by Blavatnik,
53, who is ranked No. 31 on Forbes magazine’s 2010 list of the
wealthiest Americans. Blavatnik, Access and the other defendants
have denied Norex’s claims.  In September 2007, U.S. District Judge  Laura Taylor Swain 
dismissed the case on other grounds. It was the second time she
threw out the claims without ruling on the merits. The appeals
court reinstated the case in 2005.  The case is Norex Petroleum v. Access Industries, 02-cv-
1499, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  