-- U.S. Dollar Is `One Step Nearer' to Crisis as Debt Level Climbs, Yu Says
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-09-28T12:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/u-s-dollar-is-one-step-nearer-to-crisis-chinese-former-adviser-yu-says.html
The U.S. dollar is “one step
nearer” to a crisis as debt levels in the world’s largest
economy increase, said  Yu Yongding , a former adviser to China’s
central bank.  Any appreciation of the dollar is “really temporary” and
a devaluation of the currency is inevitable as U.S. debt rises,
Yu said in a speech in Singapore today.  “Such a huge amount of debt is terrible,” Yu said. “The
situation will be worsening day by day. I think we are one step
nearer to a U.S.-dollar crisis.”  Yu also said China is worried about the safety of its
foreign-exchange reserves including those invested in U.S.
Treasuries as the U.S. currency weakens, reiterating his earlier
views on the dollar assets. The U.S. will record a $1.3 trillion
budget deficit for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30, the
Congressional Budget Office said Aug. 19.  The estimated budget deficit for this fiscal year would be
equivalent to 9.1 percent of gross domestic product, the CBO
said. That would make it the second-largest shortfall in 65
years, exceeded only by the 9.9 percent in 2009.  The CBO also projected the U.S. would have a cumulative
deficit of $6.27 trillion in the next decade, higher than its
March estimate of $5.99 trillion.  Reduced U.S. Holdings  China, the biggest foreign investor in U.S. government
bonds, cut its  holdings  by about 10 percent to $846.7 billion in
the 12 months ended July, according to the Treasury Department.  U.S. Treasuries fail to provide safety or liquidity in
managing China’s $2.45 trillion foreign-exchange reserves, Yu
said in an e-mail in August. To help cool demand for the
securities, China needs to curb the growth of its foreign
reserves by intervening less in the currency market, he said.  China should reduce its holdings of U.S.-dollar assets to
diversify risks of “sharp depreciation,” Yu said in July. The
nation should convert some holdings in U.S. dollars into assets
denominated in other currencies, commodities and direct
investments overseas, he wrote in a commentary in the China
Securities Journal.  The increased convertibility of the yuan will ease pressure
on the currency to appreciate, Yu said today at an event
organized by Singapore Management University.  The yuan has strengthened almost 2 percent against the
dollar since June 19, when China’s central bank said it will
pursue a more flexible exchange rate. China maintained a peg of
6.83 yuan per dollar from July 2008 to June 2010.  Yuan Level  China will independently determine the level of the yuan
and the U.S. doesn’t need to vote on the issue this week, Vice
Commerce Minister  Chen Jian  said in Taipei yesterday.  The U.S. House of Representatives is due to vote tomorrow
on legislation pressing China to raise the currency’s value amid
assertions the yuan is undervalued and gives the Asian nation a
trade advantage. The legislation would let companies petition
for higher duties on Chinese imports.  “The basic trend is for an appreciation” of the yuan, Yu
said in an interview after his speech today. “No one can
predict the specific pace of the appreciation. This is difficult
to say as it depends on circumstances. We should not be
speculators.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 