-- U.S. Can Continue Stem-Cell Funding, Court Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-09-29T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/u-s-can-continue-embryonic-stem-cell-funding-through-appeal-court-says.html
Scientists who use embryonic stem
cells for research can continue to receive U.S. taxpayer funding
while the government challenges a lower-court order that barred
federal support, an  appeals court  said.  The ruling by U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington yesterday
puts on hold an order cutting off funding by U.S. District Judge
 Royce Lamberth , which the government argued would cause
irreparable harm to researchers, taxpayers, and scientific
progress while the case is appealed.  The government’s lawyers “have satisfied the standards
required for a stay pending appeal,” the judges wrote in a one-
page order that said the appeal will be expedited and that the
schedule for briefing and oral arguments will come out later.  Lifting the ban allows the government to temporarily
continue funneling tens of millions of dollars to scientists
seeking cures for diseases such as Parkinson’s, spinal cord
injuries, and genetic conditions. Embryonic stem cells can grow
into any kind of tissue and may have the potential to accelerate
a range of research.  The decision, coming after oral arguments two days ago, was
made by  Judith Rogers , appointed by former President  Bill Clinton , and  Thomas Griffith  and  Brett Kavanaugh , both appointed
by former President  George W. Bush .  Lamberth on Aug. 23 issued an order temporarily stopping
the Health and Human Services Department and the National
Institutes of Health from funding or conducting the studies. On
Sept. 7, Lamberth denied a U.S. request to reconsider his
ruling. The court of appeals then allowed funding to resume
pending today’s decision.  ‘A Top Priority’  “President Obama made expansion of stem cell research and
the pursuit of groundbreaking treatments and cures a top
priority when he took office,” White House Press Secretary
 Robert Gibbs  said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “We’re
heartened that the court will allow NIH and their grantees to
continue moving forward while the appeal is resolved.”  Thomas Hungar , an attorney for the opponents of the
funding, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Lamberth cited the still-in-force 1996 Dickey-Wicker
Amendment in his ruling, saying that Congress prohibited funding
any research in which a human embryo was destroyed. By
implication, that included all stem-cell research, Lamberth
said.  In March 2009, Obama reversed an executive order of Bush’s
to allow research on cells derived from embryos that would
otherwise be disposed of after in-vitro fertilization
procedures.  Dickey-Wicker  Under Bush’s order in August 2001, Dickey-Wicker was
interpreted to allow research on lines of stem cells that
already had been created using human embryos. Bush limited
federal funding for such research to about 20 existing lines of
embryonic cells and banned funding on any additional lines.  Lamberth’s order prevented the National Institutes of
Health from acting on grant applications that have been
reviewed, and from considering dozens of other applications that
are in the review process, the U.S. wrote in its appeal. It may
take as long as eight months to reinitiate the review process
for grant applications, the U.S. claimed.  The case is Sherley v. Sebelius, 10-5287, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington
at   bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 