-- BP's Probation Over Fatal Texas Blast Won't Be Revoked by U.S.
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2010-09-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/u-s-won-t-revoke-bp-s-probation-over-lapses-at-texas-site-of-fatal-blast.html
BP Plc ’s probation for violating a
plea deal that resolved the company’s criminal liability for a
fatal 2005 explosion at its Texas City, Texas, refinery won’t be
revoked by the U.S. Justice Department.  After consulting with BP, regulators and blast  victims ,
prosecutors said they would give the company 18 more months to
complete required safety reviews and upgrades at the Texas
refinery, according to documents filed in federal court in
Houston.  “The Department of Justice is not seeking a revocation or
extension of probation at this time,” Daniel Dooher, a senior
trial attorney in the U.S. environmental crimes division, said
in a Sept. 8 letter to U.S. District Judge  Lee Rosenthal . Dooher
said safety regulators and “BP have executed a stipulation and
agreement resolving the allegations of non-compliance,” which
includes an extension of BP’s deadline to complete the work
until March 12, 2012, the date its probation will expire.  BP Products North America, a unit of the London-based
company, agreed in March 2009 to pay a $50 million fine and
complete three years probation for violating U.S. air pollution
laws linked to the March 2005 explosion that killed 15 and
injured thousands.  BP’s plea deal required it to complete a review of
pressure-relief valves throughout its largest U.S. refinery and
complete installation of automated safety instrumentation, as
required by the company’s settlement with the U.S.  Occupational
Safety and Health Administration .  OSHA Fine  OSHA notified prosecutors in July 2009 that BP missed a
deadline to complete that work, and last October the agency
fined the company $87 million for that failure and subsequent
safety lapses at the site.  Prosecutors told BP in January that they “might seek
revocation and/or extension of probation” until the company
complied with the OSHA agreement, Dooher said. Lawyers for blast
victims asked Rosenthal to fine BP more than $2 billion, saying
the original penalty represented less than one day’s profit from
the Texas City plant.  Brent Coon , the lead lawyer for victims of the explosion,
called the government’s decision “disappointing but not
surprising.” He said yesterday in an e-mail that prosecutors
had told him they “don’t want to reopen the case unless
negotiations with OSHA collapse.”  Daren Beaudo , a BP spokesman didn’t immediately return a
call and e-mail seeking comment yesterday after regular business
hours.  The 2005 explosion occurred when an octane-boosting unit
overflowed as it was being restarted, igniting a blast that
shattered windows five miles away. The U.S. Chemical Safety
Board found numerous safety lapses that rendered the plant “a
catastrophe waiting to happen,” according to  John Bresland , the
board’s chairman.  The Justice Department’s letters to Rosenthal were first 
reported yesterday by the website truthout.org.  The case is U.S. v. BP Products North America, 4:07-cr-
00434, U.S. District Courts, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 