-- United, Continental Defeat Effort to Block Merger
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-09-28T15:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/ual-continental-airlines-defeat-bid-to-block-merger-on-antitrust-grounds.html
UAL Corp. ’s merger with  Continental
Airlines Inc.  won’t create a monopoly and shouldn’t be blocked
on antitrust grounds, a federal judge ruled, helping to clear
the way for the deal’s completion.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Seeborg  in San Francisco said
yesterday the plaintiffs failed to argue adequately the
acquisition will substantially reduce competition in the airline
industry, and declined to enjoin the pact.  The plaintiffs’ “failure to establish a viable relevant
market dooms any effort to show this merger will substantially
lessen competition, thereby negating their ability to raise even
serious questions, let alone a likelihood of success on the
merits,” which is required for granting a preliminary
injunction, Seeborg wrote.  Shareholders of Houston-based Continental and Chicago-based
UAL on Sept. 17 approved the $3.22 billion all-stock merger that
was announced in May. The airlines received regulatory approval
from the Justice Department in July to merge, creating an
airline company surpassing  Delta Air Lines Inc.  as the world’s
biggest. The merger is expected to close by Oct. 1.  “Unfortunately and disappointingly, the court did not take
into account the Supreme Court decisions that would have
prevented and stopped the merger,”  Joseph Alioto , an attorney
who filed the suit in June on behalf of consumers, said in a
phone interview today.  Increase Fares  The consumers claim the merger will increase fares, reduce
flights and eliminate jobs. The challenge “at least deserves a
trial on the merits,” Alioto, of San Francisco, said in a Sept.
17 court argument.  Alioto said today he will appeal Seeborg’s ruling.  “We are gratified by the court’s decision to deny the
plaintiff’s motion,”  Julie King , a spokeswoman for Continental,
said today in an e-mail.  “We are pleased with the court’s decision, which is in
keeping with the review by the Department of Justice,”  Jean Medina , a spokeswoman for United, said today by e-mail.  They said they expect the merger to close Oct. 1.  The airlines will continue to operate as separate entities
until they receive a single operating certificate from the
Federal Aviation Administration. That is expected to occur in
October 2011, King said.  In the interim, integration teams created at the carriers
will begin exchanging financial information and making decisions
on how to combine operations, the carriers have said. Once the
single operating certificate is obtained, the airlines will
begin to function as one carrier, the airlines said.  ‘Too Big to Fail’  “They’re now creating an industry in which there are very
few competitors and allowing them to become too big to fail,”
Alioto said today. “That’s what these folks are anticipating.
There’s very little regard for their passengers and everybody
seems to know it.”  The consumers failed to demonstrate the existence of three
markets they proposed to win the “extraordinary remedy of a
preliminary injunction,” Seeborg wrote. The three markets are
those for business travelers, 13 “airport-pairs” where the
consumers say competition will be lessened and the U.S. airline
industry as a whole where competition between United and
Continental would be eliminated, the judge wrote.  Because of his finding on the potential markets, the judge
declined to rule on the public-interest aspects of the merger.  The airlines, he noted, said that the merger would “bring
stability to a turbulent and ailing industry” and that
“consumers will benefit from passed-on cost savings, new
systemwide destinations and routes, increased capacity and a
better overall product.”  The case is Malaney v. UAL Corp., 10-02858, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 