-- UBS Names Kengeter Investment Bank Head, Moves Wilmot-Sitwell
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-09-29T15:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/ubs-appoints-kengeter-sole-investment-bank-chief-wilmot-sitwell-to-asia.html
UBS AG , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
appointed  Carsten Kengeter  sole head of its investment bank and
said co-chief  Alexander Wilmot-Sitwell  will move to Hong Kong to
oversee the firm’s Asia Pacific business.  Wilmot-Sitwell, 49, will lead the region as co-chairman and
co-chief executive officer with  Chi-Won Yoon , the Zurich-based
bank said in a statement. Wilmot-Sitwell and Kengeter, 43, have
led the investment bank since April 2009.  By entrusting the investment bank to Kengeter, UBS CEO
 Oswald Gruebel , 66, is emphasizing expertise in fixed-income
markets -- a business that fueled UBS’s revenue this year and
that Kengeter previously ran. Kengeter, who joined from  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  in 2008, helped rebuild the debt unit following
more than $57 billion of writedowns and credit losses in the
financial crisis.  “Kengeter is the ex-Goldman Sachs trader, Wilmot-Sitwell
the classic corporate financier,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an
analyst at Mediobanca SpA who has an “outperform” rating on
UBS.  “Co-heads is always tricky and I saw this move as
inevitable. This is another key management change Gruebel has
made in recent months as UBS moves from defence to offense.”  UBS  fell  41 centimes, or 2.4 percent, to 17.06 francs in
Swiss trading, valuing the bank at 65.4 billion Swiss francs
($67 billion). The shares are up 6.3 percent  this year , compared
with a 3.6 percent  decline  in the Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index, which includes 54 companies.  Beating Estimates  The investment bank is seeking to produce annual pretax
profit of 6 billion francs over the next three to five years,
after losses since 2007. Gruebel in July said a bank the size of
UBS should be generating 4 billion francs a quarter in revenue
from fixed-income trading -- or double the firm’s current
“interim” target.  Gruebel, who led a turnaround at Credit Suisse Group AG in
his previous job, has hired more than 850 people to rebuild
UBS’s debt and equity units since joining in February 2009. UBS
named  Rajeev Misra  and  Dimitri Psyllidis , formerly with Deutsche
Bank AG and Merrill Lynch & Co., respectively, as co-heads of
fixed-income, currencies and commodities in January.  UBS beat analysts’ earnings estimates in the second quarter
on higher-than-expected trading revenue. The firm’s  investment
bank  posted pretax profit of 2.5 billion francs in the year’s
first half, compared with a loss of 5.01 billion francs in the
first half of 2009.  ‘Instrumental’  “Alex and Carsten were instrumental in turning around the
position of our investment bank,” Gruebel said in the
statement. “As such, I am convinced that Carsten will continue
leading the investment bank towards sustainable success in line
with our mid-term targets.”  Kengeter joined UBS as co-head of fixed-income trading.
Wilmot-Sitwell joined in 1996 and climbed to co-head of
investment banking, which encompasses merger advisory and debt
and equity underwriting. He will assume his new position in Hong
Kong on Nov. 1, according to the statement. Yoon, 51, was named
chairman and CEO of the Asia Pacific region in June 2009.  UBS generated 17 percent of its 22.6 billion-franc  revenue 
in Asia last year, up 21 percent from 2008. The company had
about 6,900 employees in its Asia Pacific unit, or about 11
percent of the firm’s workforce, as of June 30.  Mergers, Equities  The firm ranks third among merger advisers in Asia Pacific
this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show, behind Goldman Sachs
and Nomura Holdings Inc. UBS was among the top two equity
underwriters from 2006 through 2009 in the region and this year
ranks sixth, according to the data.  The bank has seen the departure of executives in the region
this year, including  Henry Cai , formerly chairman of investment
banking in Asia, and  Steven Barg , the head of capital markets in
the region.  Earlier this month, Barclays Plc named  Robert Diamond  to
become CEO at the end of March. Diamond rose up through fixed-
income trading ranks at Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse First
Boston before leading Barclays’ investment-banking expansion.
Deutsche Bank AG in June named  Anshu Jain , a former fixed-income
trading chief, to take full control of its corporate and
investment bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec D.B. McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 