-- Ukraine Will Decide on Grain Export Restrictions Next Week, Minister Says
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2010-09-28T11:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/ukraine-will-decide-on-grain-export-restrictions-next-week-minister-says.html
Ukraine will decide next week
whether to limit grain exports, Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov 
said.  The government is compiling estimates of stockpiles in the
country, Azarov told reporters today in the capital, Kiev.  “Depending on the volumes of grain, the government will
decide next week whether to regulate the exports” or allow them
to be “free,” Azarov said. “We will have a confident
estimation of the grain by the end of the week.”  Ukraine, the world’s biggest exporter of barley, dropped
proposals last month to impose grain-export quotas, drafted with
a view to controlling domestic prices after the country’s
harvest was cut by a two-month drought. Azarov said Sept. 10 the
government wouldn’t limit exports because stockpiles were large
enough to meet domestic demand and also sell grain abroad.  In July, the customs service intensified inspections of
outbound shipments, which traders said delayed deliveries and
left them unable to take advantage of favorable international
prices. The Ukrainian Grain Association, representing 80 percent
of the country’s grain exporters, said Sept. 7 that officials
had delayed the departure of 24 grain-hauling vessels. At least
450,000 metric tons of grain were held up by checks, Kiev-based
researcher UkrAgroConsult said Sept. 10.  The country’s Agriculture Ministry has forecast a grain
harvest of 38 million tons this year, while Deputy Agriculture
Minister Yevhen Lavrov said Aug. 27 that annual domestic
consumption is about 24 million tons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 