-- Hundreds Queue as Bangkok Mall Opens Four Months After Deadly Riots, Fire
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-09-28T05:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/hundreds-queue-as-bangkok-mall-opens-four-months-after-deadly-riots-fire.html
Hundreds of shoppers lined up to
count down the reopening of Thailand’s  Central World shopping
mall  today, more than four months after anti-government
protesters torched it during deadly riots in Bangkok.  Shoppers wearing bright pink T-shirts emblazoned with “We
Love CW” flocked into the mall that has been closed since April
3, when Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s opponents took over
the downtown business district.  Central Pattana Pcl , the
country’s biggest mall operator, spent more than 2.8 billion
baht ($92 million) renovating the building.  “People should learn by now that violence is not right,”
Chief Executive  Kobchai Chirathivat  told reporters today. “We
can show our political opinion, but it should be under the
law.”  Central World became a symbol of Thailand’s political
divide and a focal point of efforts to foster reconciliation
following the protests, which led to at least 89 deaths in April
and May. A sign erected in front of the mall read “may this
rebuilding bring peace and prosperity to Thailand.”  Ten days ago, thousands of red-shirted protesters gathered
in the front of the mall to mark a 2006 military coup that
ousted ex-leader  Thaksin Shinawatra . They floated red balloons,
lit candles and shouted: “People died here.”  State of Emergency  Abhisit has kept Bangkok and six other provinces under a
 state of emergency  since the crackdown in May, giving security
officials immunity and allowing them to detain suspects for 30
days without charge. Central Pattana invested 30 million baht to
upgrade the mall’s security system and its structure was
approved by city authorities, Kobchai said.  “When people walk in here again, they will feel that it’s
safe,” he said.  Central Pattana will see  sales  grow at least 10 percent
next year because of higher revenue from Central World, Kobchai
said. The mall should draw about 100,000 people per day,
compared with 150,000 before the closure, he said.  The company delayed a 3.6 billion baht renovation of its
Ladprao mall in February to help offset losses at Central World.
The company is still in the process of making a claim on its
insurance policy, which is valued at more than 10 billion baht
for industrial risks and 3 billion-baht for terrorism risks,
Kobchai said.  Central World is the biggest lifestyle shopping complex in
Southeast Asia, with 300,000 square meters of retail space
includes more than 500 shops and 100 restaurants, according to a
statement by the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net  