-- Turkish Airlines Considers Acquisition Options Including Serbia, CEO Says
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2010-09-28T11:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/turkish-airlines-considers-acquisition-options-including-serbia-ceo-says.html
Turk Hava Yollari AO  or Turkish
Airlines, the national carrier, will beef up long-haul routes
and is considering strategic acquisition opportunities including
Serbian Airlines, Chief Executive Officer  Temel Kotil  said.  The company plans to complete the purchase of 90 aircraft
by 2012, Kotil said in an interview in Istanbul today. He said
Turkish Airlines expects $6 billion of sales and to fill 73
percent of flight capacity this year.  As part of the expansion plan, Turkish Airlines may later
consider buying Airbus 380 or Boeing 747 double-decker planes,
if it increases its number of flights to New York to three per
day from one at present, Kotil said. He said The company aims to
increase total weekly flights to 10,000 from 5,500 now.  Turkish Airlines has been spending more on planes and
flying to new destinations as it sought to close the gap on
Europe’s biggest airlines,  Air France-KLM Group , Deutsche
Lufthansa AG and  British Airways Plc .  The carrier posted a second-quarter  profit  of 158.7 million
liras ($108 million), reversing a year-earlier loss, and its
 shares  have jumped about 40 percent in the past three months,
compared with a 15 percent gain on Turkey’s benchmark ISE-100
stock index.  Kotil said flights to the U.S. will increase to 35 per week
in 2011 from 10 currently, as Turkish Airlines carries transit
passengers from Russia, other former Soviet countries, the
Middle East and north Africa. He said the airline plans to add
Montreal to its transatlantic destinations.  Other new routes include Bangladesh, Vietnam and Manila,
Kotil said. He said the company is “working on” a possible
acquisition of Serbian Airlines, declining to give further
details.  Montenegro’s government this week announced plans to sell
30 percent of national carrier Montenegro Airlines. Turkish
Airlines bought a 49 percent stake in Air Bosnia in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Holland at 
 bholland1@bloomberg.net  