-- Yahoo, RealNetworks Music License Fees Voided by Court
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-09-28T20:07:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/musical-work-download-not-a-public-performance-u-s-appeals-court-rules.html
A U.S. appeals court in New York
reversed a series of lower-court decisions setting license fees
for the Internet companies  Yahoo! Inc.  and  RealNetworks Inc.  to
stream songs online.  A three-judge appellate panel today threw out a set of
blanket rates to be paid by the two companies to the American
Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, or  ASCAP , which
licenses about 45 percent of the musical works played online,
according to the opinion.  The court upheld a finding that the downloading of a
musical work doesn’t constitute a “public performance,” meaning
companies have to pay only for creating copies of the music.  The
decision  dealt with lower-court rulings on music downloading
issued from 2007 to 2009. The lower court set a royalty rate of
2.5 percent of the companies’ music-use revenue, adjusted for
the time users spend listening to music on their sites.  “First, the district court did not adequately support the
reasonableness of its method for measuring the value of the
Internet companies’ music use,” the appeals panel said.
“Second, the district court did not adequately support the
reasonableness of the 2.5 percent royalty rate applied to the
value of the Internet companies’ music use.”  The appeals court sent the case back to the lower court for
reconsideration of the rates.  ‘Reasonable Royalty’  “Yahoo is pleased with the court’s decision and looks
forward to the establishment of a truly reasonable royalty
license rate that properly accounts for music use on its
services,” the Sunnyvale, California-based company said in an
e-mailed statement.  Tiffany Dunning, a spokeswoman for Seattle-based
RealNetworks, didn’t respond to a voice-mail message seeking
comment.  In an e-mailed statement, New York-based ASCAP said it’s
studying the decision and considering what to do next. It said
it anticipates that the district court, in reconsidering the
license provisions, will come to a fair result.  The case is U.S. v. American Society of Composers, Authors
and Publishers, 09-539, U.S. Court of Appeals, Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at 
9245 or  rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at 
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 