-- Vatican Keeps OECD Waiting on Transparency as Italy Magistrates Probe Bank
-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-09-28T14:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/vatican-keeps-oecd-waiting-on-transparency-as-italy-magistrates-probe-bank.html
The  Vatican  has yet to formally
commit to financial transparency, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said one week after Italian
magistrates opened a probe into its bank for alleged violations
of money-laundering laws.  While the Holy See said last week that it’s in talks with
the OECD about getting on the Paris-based group’s so-called
White List of nations that comply with global norms, it has not
taken the first step toward transparency, said  Jeffrey Owens ,
head of the OECD’s Center for Tax Policy and Administration.  “The speed of the negotiations depends very much on
them,” Owens said by phone from Singapore. “The first thing is
for them to make a formal commitment to the standards of
transparency and exchange of information for tax purposes.”  The Holy See said on Sept. 21 that the Vatican Bank, or the
Institute for Religious Works, and its two top executives had
been placed under investigation by Rome prosecutors for
allegedly omitting data in wire transfers from an Italian
account. Prosecutors froze 23 million euros ($31 million) in an
IOR account at a Rome branch of  Credito Artigiano SpA ,
newspapers including Il Sole 24 Ore said that day.  The IOR’s statutes call for it to collect and manage cash,
assets and properties earmarked for religious purposes. The
Vatican has denied wrongdoing in the probe, saying it stems from
a “misunderstanding” between the IOR and Credito Artigiano.  ‘God’s Banker’  Vatican Bank Chairman  Ettore Gotti Tedeschi , who is also
under investigation, said the Holy See set up a panel earlier
this year to implement financial-transparency and anti-money-
laundering rules. He declined to comment on the probe.  “We’ve done more than accept the norms,” he said in an
interview on Sept. 27, declining to say when the Vatican would
make a formal commitment to the OECD. Owens said the Holy See
faces a “difficult process.”  Under Gotti Tedeschi, a professor of financial ethics at
Milan’s Catholic University who joined the IOR last year, the
Holy See has sought to improve the bank’s image after a series
of scandals, including the $1.3 billion collapse of the partly
Vatican-owned Banco Ambrosiano, Italy’s largest private bank at
the time, in 1982. Ambrosiano’s former Chairman  Roberto Calvi ,
dubbed “God’s banker,” was found hanged under London’s
Blackfriars Bridge in June of that year.  ‘Clean House’  In response to the money-laundering investigation, the IOR
wants to close 13 numbered accounts registered to non-clerics, a
plan opposed by some Vatican officials,  Corriere della Sera 
reported Sept. 27, citing unidentified sources.  “Gotti Tedeschi was brought in to clean house,” Gianluigi
Nuzzi, author of  Vaticano SpA  (Vatican Inc.), a 2009 book about
the IOR, said in an interview. “Not everyone wants him to
succeed.” Nuzzi estimates the bank’s holdings at about 5
billion euros.  “As we see in these days, one’s image is a precious good
that must be continuously protected and safeguarded,” said
Gotti Tedeschi, 65, who also serves as non-executive chairman of
an Italian unit of Spain’s  Banco Santander SA .  The Vatican approached the OECD in the spring and officials
from the two sides met twice over the summer to discuss how the
city state could be included on the White List, Owens said.  Holy See authorities also met once with officials of the
Financial Action Task Force, a separate body within the OECD
that sets anti-money-laundering rules, and “indicated that they
intend to implement the  FATF  standards,” said Alexandra
Wijmenga-Daniel of the task force’s Secretariat.  Gray List  Global efforts to crack down on banking secrecy took on
greater urgency after the financial crisis broke out in 2008,
with the Group of 20 nations calling for a fresh drive against
tax evasion. While dozens of tax havens such as Andorra and San
Marino were listed on the OECD’s website as not having
implemented its standards in April 2009, only 12 jurisdictions
are currently on the  list .  A formal pledge to implement global tax standards would
allow the Vatican to be put on the so-called Gray List, which
currently includes countries such as Liberia and Panama,
according to the OECD website. To take the next step onto the
White List, the Vatican would need to enact at least 12
 bilateral accords  on sharing information for tax purposes.  Critics such as Britain’s  Tax Justice Network  have said
that for such bilateral accords to be meaningful, they must
involve key partners. Asked if the Vatican would be required to
reach an information-sharing deal with Italy, the nation with
which it has the closest ties, Owens said the OECD seeks to
ensure that jurisdictions make agreements with their main
trading allies.  “We have a set of procedures, we have a set of standards,
we have review mechanisms in place,” Owens said. “All this
would be applied to the Vatican just like any other state.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net ;
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  