-- TVB Shares Fall in Hong Kong on Speculation Lee Investment to Be Limited
-- B y   M a r k   L e e   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 2010-09-28T09:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/tvb-shares-fall-in-hong-kong-on-speculation-lee-investment-to-be-limited.html
Television Broadcasts Ltd.  fell the
most in 17 months in Hong Kong trading on speculation that a
potential investment by  Henderson Land Development Co.  Vice-
Chairman  Lee Ka-kit  won’t trigger a wider takeover offer.  TVB , Hong Kong’s biggest TV company which resumed trading
today, fell 5.8 percent, the most since April 27, 2009, to close
at HK$43.80. The stock was suspended yesterday after surging 17
percent in premarket trading.  Chairman  Run Run Shaw ’s Shaw Holdings Inc. is in talks to
sell shares in a company that owns a 26 percent stake in TVB,
the broadcaster said yesterday, without identifying the
prospective investors. Henderson’s Lee, son of billionaire
founder  Lee Shau-kee , is studying a plan to buy a stake in TVB,
the property developer said yesterday.  “It appears that the negotiations are limited to a partial
stake in TVB, one that’s below 30 percent, and won’t lead to a
general offer for the rest of the company’s shares,” said  Linus Yip , a strategist at First Shanghai Securities in Hong Kong.
“That’s affected the share price.”  Investors acquiring stakes exceeding 30 percent of public
companies in Hong Kong are required to make bids to buy out
other shareholders under local listing rules.  Henderson Investment  The possible investment in TVB by Lee Ka-kit is unrelated
to Henderson Land or to unit  Henderson Investment Ltd. ,  Bonnie Ngan , a spokeswoman at the developer, said yesterday. His
interest in the broadcaster is preliminary and no agreement has
been reached, she said.  Henderson Investment  fell  7.8 percent to 83 Hong Kong cents
today, after climbing 25 percent yesterday. Henderson Land, the
fourth-biggest developer in Hong Kong by market value, fell 2
percent to HK$53.75.  Shaw, 102, is the biggest shareholder in  TVB  with a 32.5
percent stake, comprising shares held personally and the 26
percent holding owned by Shaw Brothers (Hong Kong) Ltd. Shaw
Holdings is in preliminary talks to sell shares in Shaw
Brothers, TVB said yesterday.  Apart from the stake in TVB, Shaw Brothers also owns a
property site in the Clearwater Bay district in Hong Kong,
Morgan Stanley analyst  Jenny Wu  wrote in a report yesterday.  Lee’s estimated wealth of $18.5 billion ranks him as Hong
Kong’s second-richest man, behind Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd.
Chairman  Li Ka-shing , according to Forbes magazine. Lee controls
 Henderson Land  and  Hong Kong and China Gas Co.   Shaw, knighted by Britain’s  Queen Elizabeth II  in 1977, co-
founded TVB in 1967 after his Shaw Brothers became a leading
local film producer. In October 2008, he abandoned talks to sell
his stake in TVB because of the global recession, the
broadcaster said in a filing at the time.  TVB is one of the world’s biggest producers of Chinese-
language programs, with distribution in more than 30 countries,
according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  