-- Venus Williams Takes Lessons From Welch, Branson: Sports Books
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2010-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/venus-williams-takes-lessons-from-welch-branson-whitman-sports-books.html
Richard Branson , founder of the
Virgin Group Ltd., played soccer, rugby and cricket.  Jeff Zucker , departing chief executive officer of NBC Universal,
played competitive junior tennis.  Isadore Sharp , founder of Four
Seasons Hotels, played pond hockey, with magazines pressed into
service for shin pads and rocks for goalposts.  Though these leaders succeeded in other fields, they took
enduring lessons from the sports of their youth.  “ Come to Win”  (Amistad, $25.99), edited by  Venus Williams , is an engaging collection of stories about how
corporate battles were won on the playing fields of youth. I
hadn’t thought of Williams as an entrepreneurial adviser. But
she was, after all, reared on family meetings that began with
questions like: “Why is it that the poor person stays in the
ghetto and the rich person gets richer?”  Her advice comes from leaders who are masters of the power
game, but the lessons are for us all.  “It’s not so much about being the first to do something,”
Branson says. “It’s training for it and trying to see what your
body is capable of, whether you mentally can cope with it.”  Meg Whitman , former head of EBay Inc. and candidate for
governor of California, played field hockey, basketball,
softball, soccer, lacrosse and tennis. “No individual,” she
says, “is as important as the team.”  But the best story comes from former Salem High hockey
player (and General Electric Co. chief)  Jack Welch , who threw
his stick across the ice after a tough overtime loss. His mother
marched into the locker room with an unforgettable lesson: “If
you don’t know how to lose, you’ll never know how to win.”  ‘Lost Cyclist’  In David V. Herlihy’s “ The Lost Cyclist ” (Houghton
Mifflin Harcourt, $26), we meet Frank Lenz, an all-but-forgotten
American adventurer who dreamed of bicycling 20,000 miles around
the world in the early 1890s, only to meet a mysterious death
two years into his trip.  Lenz was an ingenious type, as cyclists often are; he
figured out a way to photograph himself while riding and to
deploy a special umbrella when it rained on his custom-made
nickel-plated bike with its elongated leather saddle and special
springs. He didn’t, however, figure on the dangers posed by
other humans, some of whom may have wanted to rob him, some of
whom almost certainly murdered him.  Herlihy’s book is a travelogue, a whodunit -- and a chase
story, for before long the fabled biker William Sachtleben is
dispatched to Turkey to find Lenz. He comes up with a theory --
but this is a thriller that ends with a mystery, unsolved to
this day.  ‘Gaming the World’  In “ Gaming the World : How Sports Are Reshaping Global
Politics and Culture” (Princeton University Press, $29.95),
Andrei S. Markovits and Lars Rensmann of the University of
Michigan argue that sports have emerged “as a powerful force of
political and cultural change around the globe.” They set forth
a number of provocative notions growing out of the
internationalization of sports stars and the globalization of
soccer (the result, they smartly argue, of Britain’s reach in
the 19th century).  By far the most intriguing element of this volume is its
explanation of how and why American collegiate sports emerged as
economic and social engines, not only on campus but also around
the country. They trace how American college sports began in the
British mold -- student-run productions, with all the amateurism
that suggests -- and evolved into big-business operations run by
professionals.  College sports thus became agents of product
differentiation. All that rah-rah-rah and razzamatazz is really
about branding.  “Sports programs, particularly as represented by a
college’s football team, lent universities their distinct
markers,” they write, “and gave them a brand identity that
none of their other activities could even vaguely approximate.”  Finally -- a connection between the gridiron and the grad
schools.  ( David M. Shribman  is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 