-- Vietnam's Economic Growth Quickened to 7.16% Aided by Industrial Output
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-28T09:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/vietnam-s-economic-growth-quickened-to-7-16-in-third-quarter.html
Vietnam’s economic growth
accelerated in the third quarter indicating full-year expansion
may be the fastest since 2007, boosted by gains in industrial
production.  Gross domestic product  advanced 7.16 percent in July
through September from a year earlier, according to figures
released today by the General Statistics Office in Hanoi. The
economy expanded at a 6.4 percent pace in the second quarter.  Industrial output, retail sales and credit growth have
fueled Vietnam’s recovery from last year’s global recession. The
economic expansion may exceed the government’s 6.5 percent
target for 2010, with the ruling Communist Party aiming for a
7.5 percent increase in GDP next year even as inflation quickens
and the trade deficit widens.  The nation’s third-quarter acceleration “contrasts with
just about everywhere else” in Southeast Asia as the region is
losing growth momentum,  Kevin Grice , a London-based economist at
Capital Economics Ltd., said in a Sept. 27 note. “On the output
side, the upswing is being led by industry and construction.”  The State Bank of Vietnam weakened the dong’s reference
exchange rate by 2 percent in August in a bid to curb the trade
gap. The shortfall widened to $1.05 billion in September even
after the devaluation, while  inflation  accelerated for the first
time in six months to 8.92 percent, more than the government’s 8
percent goal, recent reports showed.  The dong traded at 19,490 per dollar at 3 p.m. in Hanoi
from 19,099 before the devaluation was announced. The Ho Chi
Minh City Stock Exchange’s  VN Index  rose for a second day,
closing up 1.1 percent to 455.13.  ‘Strong Growth’  The economy grew 6.52 percent in the first nine months of
2010 compared with a year earlier, today’s data showed. A full-
year gain of more than 6.2 percent would be the fastest since
2007’s 8.5 percent.  “The economy continues to show strong growth momentum,”
 Johanna Chua , the Hong Kong-based head of Asian economic
research at  Citigroup Inc ., said in a note this month.
“Domestic demand remains resilient.”  Vietnam’s government has been urging banks to cut interest
rates to bolster lending, which increased 16.3 percent in the
first eight months of 2010 from the end of last year, according
to central bank data.  “Bank credit growth has picked up again, after slowing
sharply at the beginning of 2010, and is now expanding at a pace
close to the 25 percent” government target for this year,
Capital Economics said last week. The nation’s GDP may increase
7 percent in 2011, the U.K.-based company said.  IMF Analysis  While the government is concerned that high lending rates
could affect industrial activity, “premature” monetary
loosening may cause a “deterioration” in the trade deficit and
boost inflation, the International Monetary Fund said  in a
report  this month.  Such an outcome may lead to “sharp tightening measures at
a later date with high costs to the economy,” the IMF said.  Inflation has remained above the government’s target for
eight straight months, while the trade deficit reached $8.58
billion for January through September.  Industry and construction, which accounted for 41 percent
of GDP, grew 7.29 percent in the first three quarters, the
statistics office said today. Construction by itself expanded
10.25 percent during the nine-month period.  Services, which comprised 38 percent of the economy, grew
7.24 percent in the first nine months. Hotels and restaurants
expanded 8.28 percent, as the number of foreign visitors to
Vietnam advanced 34.2 percent from the same time a year earlier.
Financial services gained 7.94 percent.  Agriculture, forestry and fisheries, which made up the
remaining 21 percent of the economy, expanded 2.89 percent in
the first three quarters. Vietnam is the world’s second-biggest
exporter of both rice and coffee.  -- Jason Folkmanis  in Ho Chi Minh City. Editors:  Sunil Jagtiani ,
 Alan Soughley   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at   canstey@bloomberg.net  