-- Walgreen's Profit Rises 7.8% as New Store Format Boosts Sales
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2010-09-28T20:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/walgreen-profit-rises-7-8-as-store-remodeling-program-attracts-customers.html
Walgreen Co. , the largest U.S.
drugstore chain, said fiscal fourth-quarter profit jumped 7.8
percent after remodeling stores to prompt customers to buy more
non-pharmaceutical products. The  shares  rose the most in almost
two years.  Net income for the quarter ended Aug. 31 advanced to $470
million, or 49 cents a share, the Deerfield, Illinois-based
company said today in a statement. Earnings were 53 cents
excluding costs related to the Duane Reade acquisition, beating
by 9 cents the average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The retailer limited its selection of products such as
shampoos, pain relievers and hosiery to the two top-selling
brands and their private-label equivalents, helping to increase
sales every month of the quarter. Walgreen eliminated thousands
of products from its shelves after data showed they weren’t
profitable enough to keep in stock.  “There’s no magic in our improvement,” Chief Financial
Officer  Wade Miquelon  said on a conference call. “It comes from
a lot of hard work around several initiatives.”  Walgreen  jumped $3.46, or 11 percent, to $33.81 at 4:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
gain since Oct. 28, 2008. The stock has declined 7.9 percent
this year.  CVS Caremark Corp. , the biggest distributor of prescription
drugs, and Walgreen resolved a dispute in June over
reimbursement policies at CVS Caremark’s benefits plans. The
companies agreed to allow pharmacy-benefits customers to keep
filling prescriptions at Walgreen’s locations. Walgreen had
threatened to withdraw from CVS Caremark’s retail pharmacy
network.  Walgreen’s sales rose 7.4 percent to $16.9 billion.  The retailer bought Duane Reade in April to expand in
metropolitan New York. Walgreen reported net income of $436
million, or 44 cents, in the year-earlier quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carol Wolf  in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello in New York at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  