-- Warren Worked on Bank Suit While Head of TARP Panel
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2010-09-28T19:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/warren-worked-on-lawsuit-against-banks-while-heading-tarp-panel.html
  Elizabeth Warren , named by
President  Barack Obama  to set up the new consumer finance
agency, was paid $90,000 this year to be an expert witness in a
class-action lawsuit against some of the biggest U.S. banks.  Warren, who at the time she did the work was head of the
 Congressional Oversight Panel  monitoring the $700 billion bank
bailout, was retained by a law firm that represents retailers
suing credit-card networks Visa Inc. and  MasterCard Inc ., and
banks including  Citigroup Inc .,  Bank of America Corp . and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. for alleged antitrust violations in setting
card processing rates, her financial disclosure forms show.  In an interview, Warren said that she first discussed being
an expert witness before joining the oversight panel in November
2008. She said she cleared the outside work with the panel’s
ethics counsel. The two reports she wrote, which she said she
can’t discuss because they are filed under seal in a New York
federal court, contain “nothing that I haven’t said in print,
on TV and in published academic articles.”  As an appointee to a part-time government post, Warren was
permitted to continue doing outside work under the rules
governing such positions. Some ethics attorneys said her work
created at least the appearance of a conflict of interest given
her leverage over banks as head of the watchdog group.  “She should have had the judgment to say no,” said
Richard Painter, a University of  Minnesota  law professor who was
chief ethics lawyer in the White House counsel’s office under
President  George W. Bush  and last year published a scholarly
work on government ethics. “It’s highly inappropriate in a
position that has this much power.”  Resigned from Panel  Warren’s new position makes her a full-time political
appointee of the Obama administration and she is now covered by
more restrictive ethics rules. Since her Sept. 17 appointment,
Warren has resigned from the oversight panel and taken a leave
from  Harvard Law School , where she is a professor. She also has
stopped her consulting work.  Geoffrey Hazard, a professor at the University of
California Hastings College of the Law, said he doesn’t believe
Warren’s consulting work raises major ethical issues. “If you
think about all the different connections among various people
at the national level in Washington and  New York , this is pretty
pale,” said Hazard.  Obama named Warren, 61, as assistant to the president and
special adviser to Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner . The
appointment allowed the administration to avoid a potentially
tough confirmation battle while allowing Warren to immediately
begin influencing the creation of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, part of the Dodd-Frank regulatory law.  Consumer Issues  The regulator is likely to have sway over issues dealing
with consumer loans, including credit cards.  Warren has risen to prominence in Washington with critiques
of the government’s handling of the financial rescue and what
her supporters say is her plain-spoken support for the economic
plight of Main Street. Introducing Warren at the White House,
Obama said she is “a janitor’s daughter who has become one of
the country’s fiercest advocates for the middle class.”  Her most recent financial disclosure form, filed with the
Senate in June, shows that she earned $534,125 in 2009. That
includes $349,375 from Harvard; $67,728 in publishing royalties,
$94,772 from insurer Travelers Cos. for legal work on a Supreme
Court case; $2,250 from University of  Iowa  for research expenses
and $20,000 from the law firm Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and
Dorr for “occasional” lunch meetings with its attorneys.  Informal Meetings  Wilmer Cutler does legal work for most of the biggest
banks, including Bank of America and Citigroup, and also has
represented Angelo Mozilo, the former chief executive officer of
mortgage lender Countrywide Financial Corp.  Warren said that her meetings at the firm were informal and
occurred roughly three or four times a year. Wilmer also paid
her $10,000 in 2008 for an “educational program,” her
disclosure for that year shows. The discussions held in the
firm’s Boston office, she added, centered on bankruptcy law, her
legal specialty.  “I was very careful,” Warren said. “I never talked about
TARP or the work of the Congressional Oversight Panel.”  Overall, Warren said that she strove to go above and beyond
the panel’s ethics rules. “I added bells and whistles to what
was needed,” she said.  Painter, the  University of Minnesota  professor, said
Congress made a mistake in setting up the oversight panel as a
part-time job where members are allowed to do outside work.  ‘Unusual Arrangement’  Republican Representatives  Darrell Issa  of  California  and  Spencer Bachus  of  Alabama  have questioned Warren’s current role
reporting both to Geithner and Obama, calling it in a letter to
the White House counsel earlier this month “an unusual
arrangement” that could impede congressional oversight of the
consumer bureau.  In the antitrust case, Warren said she first discussed
working as an expert witness in March 2008 with an attorney from
a Miami law firm, Kenny Nachwalter PA, and filed a report with
the court in July 2009. She said she was paid $50,000 for one
report and $40,000 for a second one, receiving the money in
2010. Warren said that the reports won’t become part of the
court record in the case because she hasn’t been deposed by the
other side.  The lawsuit is “a very big issue for the credit card
networks and issuers and there is a lot of money at stake,”
said Todd Zywicki, a professor at George Mason University School
of Law who specializes in consumer credit issues and has
followed the case. “Considering the way she used her
chairmanship to browbeat the financial services industry in a
very high-profile manner, the appearance here seems especially
troubling.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Schmidt in  Washington  at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  