-- Whitman Facing Brown for Statehouse Tests Anti Government Mood
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/whitman-facing-brown-for-statehouse-tests-anti-government-mood.html
She’s a billionaire businesswoman
who says she wants to cut taxes and regulation to create jobs.
He’s a career politician who says government is key to
energizing an economy with a 12.4 percent unemployment rate.  The race between former  EBay Inc . Chief Executive Officer
 Meg Whitman  and former Governor  Jerry Brown  is a battle over how
to manage the state with the most people, biggest economy and
worst credit rating. Whitman, the Republican nominee, and Brown,
the Democrat, will debate for the first time tonight in an
election that underscores the fiscal tensions in U.S. states
following the longest recession since World War II.  “In the years ahead, domestic politics everywhere is going
to be about subtraction rather than addition,” said  John J. Pitney  Jr., a professor of American politics at Claremont
McKenna College in Claremont, California. “ California  just got
to the future first.”  The gubernatorial candidates agree the state is in trouble,
with revenue that doesn’t keep up with spending and a polarized
legislature that has yet to vote on how to fill a $19 billion
budget gap, three months after the spending plan was due. State
worker pension liabilities are underfunded by $42 billion, and
the jobless rate is almost three percentage points above the
nation’s  9.6 percent . California’s choices may be followed by
other states with deficits, including  Illinois  and  New York .  “California has historically been a policy leader,” said
Scott Minerd, chief investment officer at Guggenheim Partners
LLC in Los Angeles, which oversees more than $100 billion. “If
it turns conservative and starts cutting taxes and spending,
we’ll see more of that nationally.”  Limiting Taxation  With about 17 million registered  voters , more than 20
percent of them independents, the state has been a proving
ground for politicians and ideas. The first female speaker of
the U.S. House, Democrat  Nancy Pelosi , represents a district in
San Francisco.  Richard Nixon  was a representative and senator
from California and  Ronald Reagan  a two-term governor before
they rose to the White House. Proposition 13 in 1978 set off a
national wave of other tax limitation measures.  Whitman, 54, and Brown, 72, are opposites in background --
and in spending, at least on their campaigns.  Whitman is the biggest self-funded political candidate in
U.S. history, having put $119 million of her own money into a
race she has been running for more than a year, according to
California Secretary of State records. Brown has a war chest of
$28 million in contributions and didn’t air his first television
ad until early September.  Climate Change Debate  A graduate of Harvard Business School, Whitman worked for
companies including Walt Disney Co. and Procter & Gamble Co.
before joining San Jose, California-based EBay in 1998. Her
primary run against state Insurance Commissioner  Steve Poizner 
was her first political outing.  Brown, attorney general since 2006, is the son of two-term
governor Edmund G. “Pat” Brown. The younger Brown served two
terms himself, first elected in 1974 at age 36, and was
Oakland’s mayor for six years.  The race is a toss-up, according to  RealClearPolitics.com ,
a website that averages the results of multiple polls, with
Brown leading by 2 points. In a similar statewide match, three-
term Democratic Senator  Barbara Boxer  is in a too-close-to-call
contest with former Hewlett-Packard Co. CEO  Carly Fiorina ,
RealClearPolitics says, with Boxer also 2 points ahead.  Of the eight statewide initiatives on the Nov. 2 ballot,
Brown has said that one crystallizes the divide between him and
his opponent: Proposition 23, which would stop enforcement of a
landmark global warming law until the unemployment rate fell to
5.5 percent. The statute gives the state the power to establish
programs to cut to 1990 levels emissions of carbon dioxide and
other gases that scientists have linked to climate change.  Stalemate in Sacramento  Whitman, who has called the climate change law a “jobs
killer,” says she would suspend its implementation for at least
a year, though she doesn’t support Prop 23. Brown says the law
propels job creation and underscores how government can work.  “Long-term economic growth requires investment in
education, infrastructure, our environment and our kids,” Brown
wrote in a budget plan he released on Sept. 16. “We can err by
cannibalizing state and local government at the bottom of a
recessionary cycle.”  The recession that began in December 2007 has only begun to
ease in  California ’s $1.8 trillion economy, where the number of
unemployed increased by 81,000 through  August  this year compared
with 800,000 in the same period last year.  Its notoriety for stalemate in Sacramento predates the
economic slump, and last week the state broke its record of 85
days without a budget.  ‘Most Volatile’  The biggest U.S. issuer of municipal debt, California has
missed its constitutional deadline to have a spending plan by
the July 1 start of its fiscal year in all but four of the last
20 years. Budgets and tax increases require approval by a two-
thirds vote, a so-called supermajority neither party can muster.  Standard & Poor’s rates the state A-, its fourth-lowest
investment grade and the lowest among its peers.  The  extra yield  investors demand on 10-year California
bonds fell from 1.53 percentage points above AAA rated municipal
securities Dec. 9 to 1.19 percentage points yesterday, Bloomberg
Fair Value Index data show.  “California is probably the most volatile municipal credit
market,” said  Thomas Dalpiaz , senior vice president at 
Advisors Asset Management Inc. in Melville, New York, managing
$250 million in municipal bonds. “If you’re going to buy them
you have to make sure your clients can withstand the
headlines.”  ‘We Live Here’  Whitman would get legislators to pass budgets with a law
forcing them to forfeit pay, expense accounts and reimbursements
if they didn’t act on time. Brown says he would employ old-
fashioned political arm-twisting.  “California is not on our buy list right now,” said
Brent Thomas, a money manager at Capital Performance Advisors in
Walnut Creek, California, which has $700 million under
management. “Even though it should be. We live here.”  Whitman, who says government’s job should be to encourage
innovation, not impose regulation, would eliminate the $800
annual tax business people pay to operate a limited liability
corporation and repeal California’s tax on capital gains, which
has generated almost $7 billion annually over the past decade.  To make up for the lost funds, Whitman  says  she would save
$15 billion by eliminating 40,000 government positions and
finding efficiencies in the health care and welfare systems.  The $814 billion in U.S. stimulus spending hasn’t created
enough jobs to justify the expense, Whitman said in an interview
after an Aug. 24 campaign stop in City of Industry, California.  ‘Increasingly Skeptical’  “My targeted tax cuts will lead to hiring,” she said.  Whitman’s position as a business-savvy outsider isn’t a
sure vote-getter even in an election year where incumbents are
unpopular, said  Frank Gilliam , dean of the school of public
affairs at the University of California, Los Angeles.  “Americans have become increasingly skeptical about the
efficacy of government,” Gilliam said. At the same time, “the
faith they put in the private sector also seems unfounded.
They’re caught between a rock and a hard place.”  Brown casts himself as a politically experienced
 pragmatist . To create what he has promised would be 500,000
clean-energy jobs, Brown say he would speed up permitting for
wind and solar power plants. He says he favors sales tax
reductions for businesses that buy manufacturing equipment, and
that he would ask voters whether to cut programs or raise taxes
if legislators can’t reach consensus.  ‘Race to Watch’  “How far people want to change the government will only be
known when the people are fully engaged in the process,” he
said in a June 1 interview at his Oakland campaign headquarters.  While they both agree that state employee retirement
benefits should be reduced, Whitman has called for a 401(k)-like
defined contribution plan to replace traditional pensions for
new employees. The state must pay $3.9 billion this fiscal year
to the pension fund, known as Calpers, to finance retiree costs,
up from $145 million a decade earlier. Calpers, the largest
public pension fund in the U.S., has $213 billion of assets
under management.  “California is leading the country in its problems,” said
Pitney of Claremont McKenna College. “This is the race to watch
because America, this is where we’re heading.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  