-- Wilders's Anti-Islam Party to Support Dutch Minority Coalition
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2010-09-28T22:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/wilders-s-anti-islam-party-agrees-to-support-dutch-minority-government.html
Liberals and Christian Democrats in
the Netherlands agreed to form a government with backing from
 Geert Wilders ’s anti-Islam Freedom Party, creating the first
Dutch minority administration since World War II.  “We have just, and I’m glad about it, completed the
agreements that will shape our political cooperation,” Liberal
Party Leader  Mark Rutte  told reporters in The Hague late
yesterday. Final details will be worked out overnight and the
party leaders plan to put the agreement to their lawmakers for
approval today before making it public tomorrow, he said.  It’s taken three attempts to form the coalition following
the inconclusive June 9 election. The government, in which
Rutte, 43, will be prime minister, will have 52 seats in the
lower house of parliament and rely on the 24 Freedom Party
lawmakers to give it the smallest possible majority in the 150-
seat chamber.  “This is new for the Netherlands; it’s an experiment,”
Kees Aarts, a professor of political science at the  University
of Twente  in Enschede, said in a telephone interview.  Austerity measures were the most important issue on the
political leaders’ agenda, with the Netherlands, the fifth-
largest economy in the euro region, needing to narrow its budget
deficit from almost 6 percent of gross domestic product this
year to 3 percent by 2013 to meet European Union rules.  Budget Cuts  Outgoing Prime Minister  Jan Peter Balkenende ’s caretaker
government presented its 2011 budget last week, including a
reduction in spending. While the cuts will help narrow next
year’s budget shortfall to 4 percent of GDP, a new government
needs to decide on further reductions to trim the deficit,
Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said in The Hague last week.  “We need to take the necessary measures to get this country
in order, to get state finances in order, stimulate employment
and ensure our prosperity grows again,” Christian Democrat
parliamentary leader Maxime Verhagen told reporters last night.  Wilders’s party more than doubled its representation in
parliament at the election, while the Christian Democrats, who
were led into the vote by Balkenende, lost half of their
support. Rutte’s party is the largest in the new parliament.  The Freedom Party seeks to ban new mosques, curb
immigration, cut development aid and reduce European Union
influence in the Netherlands. Wilders, 47, receives police
protection around the clock and faces trial next week on charges
of inciting hatred in his 2008 film “Fitna,” in which he calls
on Muslims to rip out “hate-preaching” verses from the Koran.  “The Freedom Party is at the center of influence,” Wilders
told reporters in The Hague. “The lawmakers and the party now
have a lot of influence on government policy and will keep that
in the coming years. The left isn’t in control any more in the
Netherlands.”  ‘Fitna’ Protests  Although the Freedom Party leader won’t be a part of the
government, Wilders’s involvement may hurt Dutch diplomatic and
business interests abroad. “Fitna” sparked protests in
majority-Muslim countries including Indonesia and Pakistan and
led to calls to boycott Dutch products in Malaysia and Iran.  “There are certainly risks involved,”  Hans Wijers , a
former minister of economic affairs who now heads the world’s
largest paint maker, Amsterdam-based  Akzo Nobel NV , told Dutch
broadcaster  RTL  yesterday. “It could be that the reputation of
the Netherlands abroad is damaged in an unnecessary way, which
always has negative effects.”  The Christian Democratic Alliance will have to approve the
government accord at a congress which it expects to schedule for
Oct. 2, the party said on its  website . A previous round of talks
between the three parties collapsed Sept. 3 after senior
Christian Democrats opposed cooperation with the Freedom Party.  Denmark, Britain  The agreement in the Netherlands mirrors the way Denmark
has been governed since 2001. There a minority coalition of
Liberals and Conservatives relies on the support of the anti-
immigrant Danish People’s Party to get legislation through
parliament.  The time it’s taken to form a government in The Hague forms
a contrast with the U.K., where it took Conservative leader
 David Cameron  and the Liberal Democrats’  Nick Clegg  just five
days after May 6 elections to agree on a program for the
country’s first coalition since World War II.  While the Dutch Liberals and Christian Democrats will count
on the Freedom Party for their majority in the lower house of
parliament, Wilders’s party has no seats in the  upper house , an
institution it is seeking to abolish, according to its program.  The Liberals and Christian Democrats currently have 35 of
the 75 seats in the upper chamber, falling short of the majority
needed to approve legislation.  The Freedom Party will thus have to run in March provincial
elections to ensure it gains representation in provincial
councils, which will elect the members of the upper house in
turn in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 