-- Yen Reaches Strongest Versus Dollar Since Intervention as U.S. Data Slows
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-09-28T20:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-28/yen-reaches-strongest-versus-dollar-since-intervention-as-u-s-data-slows.html
The yen reached the strongest level
versus the dollar since the Bank of Japan intervened to weaken
the currency as a report showed lower-than-forecast U.S.
consumer confidence, boosting demand for refuge assets.  The dollar reached a five-month low against the euro as
consumer sentiment dropped, fueling speculation the Federal
Reserve will resume quantitative easing, or the large-scale
purchase of debt, to bolster the economy. The Bank of Japan sold
yen Sept. 15 to stem an 11 percent year-to-date surge in the
currency that was hampering an export-led economic recovery. The
Swiss franc strengthened to a record level against the dollar
for the second time in five days.  “We’re in that period where the other safe havens, the yen
and the franc, will gain against the U.S. dollar,” said  Brian Kim , a currency strategist at UBS AG, said by phone from
Stamford, Connecticut. “People are bracing themselves for
whatever level of easing the Fed may come up with if the
recovery continues to be soft.”  The yen strengthened 0.4 percent to 83.94 yen per dollar as
of 4:05 p.m. in New York, from 84.29. It reached 83.69, the
highest level since Sept. 15, when it also touched a 15-year low
of 82.88. The euro bought 114 yen, compared with 113.41 yen,
after touching 112.67 yen.  The dollar fell 0.9 percent to $1.3581 per euro, the
weakest since April 15, compared with $1.3455 yesterday.  Currency War  The Ministry of Finance in Tokyo will report on Sept. 30
the amount of yen the central bank sold from Aug. 28 through
Sept. 28 to curb the appreciation of the currency. Demand for
the yen has been tempered by speculation Japan will sell its
currency again.  Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said yesterday that
a “currency war” has begun, with nations seeking to lower the
value of their currencies to bolster exports. Leaders of Group
of 20 nations will seek to ease tensions about exchange rates by
the end of their November summit, a South Korean official said.  “Policy makers are talking over the currency issue and
thus I expect they will be able to find a compromise at the
Seoul summit,” Sakong Il, chairman of the South Korea’s
presidential committee for the summit, told reporters in Seoul
today.  Confidence among U.S. consumers fell in September to the
lowest level in seven months as Americans became more
pessimistic about the labor market. The Conference Board’s
confidence index declined to 48.5, lower than forecast, from
53.2 the prior month. The median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a decline to 52.1.  U.S. Data  “This number will be more of a negative than a positive
for the dollar,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency
strategy at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York. “Given the market
discussion and focus on the nature and prospects of quantitative
easing, that theme that’s going to be the most prevalent.”  The yen will trade between 83.50 and 84 per dollar because
of the “of the market’s attention and focus and nervousness
about possible Bank of Japan action,” Bennenbroek said.  “Japan should change its structure to raise living
standards using the strong yen,” by encouraging overseas
mergers and acquisitions and purchasing mining rights for
natural resources,  Kazuo Mizuno , deputy director-general of
economic assessment at the Cabinet Office, said in an interview
in Tokyo today.  “Japan had to put out the fire” by selling the yen, he
said. U.S. policies indicate the currency trend won’t be
reversed soon so “Japan should expect the dollar to remain weak
in the mid-term,” he said.  Export Gains  Japan’s exports increased 15.8 percent from a year earlier
in August, the slowest growth since December, the Finance
Ministry said in Tokyo yesterday.  The Swiss franc gained 0.9 percent against the dollar to
97.60 centimes, from 98.53 yesterday. It touched a record 97.38.
Investors traditionally buy the franc during times of economic
turmoil because of the perceived stability of the Swiss economy
and current account surplus, and offload the currency when they
want to take on more risk.  The dollar has depreciated 11 percent versus the euro this
quarter in the worst performance among the European currency’s
16 major counterparts. The greenback has pared this year’s
advance to 5.1 percent.  “We are becoming increasingly convinced that euro-dollar
can perform well in this environment where the worst point of
the European bond markets crisis is behind us and the policy mix
in the U.S. is increasingly having a negative impact on the
dollar,”  Tom Fitzpatrick  and  Shyam Devani , technical analysts
for Citigroup Inc., wrote in a note to clients.  Pound Down  The pound plummeted against the euro to the weakest since
May after Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  said the
central bank should restart its asset-purchase program to
prevent persistent slow economic growth.  “There remains a significant gap between what the economy
could be producing at full employment and it currently
produces,” he said in a speech today in Hull, England, today.
“Monetary policy should continue to be aggressive about
promoting recovery, and, subject to further debate, I think
further easing should be undertaken.”  The pound fell 1.2 percent to 85.98 pence per euro, the
weakest since May 24 when it touched 86.97.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  