-- Sulzer Appeals Recommendation of Swiss Takeover Board
-- Antonio Ligi
-- 2007-12-11T18:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-12-11/sulzer-appeals-recommendation-of-swiss-takeover-board-update2-.html

          
          
             Sulzer AG (SUN) , the world's second-biggest
maker of pumps, is appealing the recommendation of the Swiss
Takeover Board that the company acts in concert with its biggest
shareholder, Russian billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg .  
 Sulzer and Vekselberg, which together own about 32 percent of
the company, act as a group and their stakes must be combined when
assessing whether they cross regulatory thresholds, the Swiss
Takeover Board said Dec. 7. The ruling means the two would have to
make an offer to minority shareholders should their joint stake
exceed a third.  
 ``Sulzer's board of directors seems to have maneuvered itself
into a relatively uncomfortable situation,'' Fabian Haecki, an
analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich, said in a research note. ``The
possibility of a tender offer gives Sulzer shares a certain
downside protection and will intensify speculation.''  
 Winterthur, Switzerland-based Sulzer said today it has ``no
intention'' of bidding for itself and that treasury shares it
bought as part of a stock buyback shouldn't count toward a total
joint stake when judging if a takeover offer must be made. The
appeal will be heard by the Swiss Federal Banking Commission.  
 In October, Sulzer agreed to register Vekselberg's stake in
return for a promise by the Russian not to acquire the company,
ending a row with its largest investor.  
 Sulzer shareholders elected two representatives of Vekselberg,
Urs Meyer and Vladimir Kuznetzov, to the Swiss company's board at
an extraordinary shareholders' meeting today.  
 Sulzer  shares  advanced to 1,693 francs in Zurich, giving the
company a market value of about 6.2 billion francs ($5.5 billion).  
 Shareholders in Swiss companies must make an offer to
minorities when they accumulate more than 33 1/3 percent of the
voting rights. Sulzer said it would ask for an exemption from the
takeover rules if the takeover board's recommendation is upheld.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Heaven in Zurich at 
 jheaven1@bloomberg.net ;
Antonio Ligi in Zurich at 
Or  aligi@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Victoria Richards at 
 vrichards@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel at   anoel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        