-- Court Halts Trial of AIDS-Stricken Ex-Yukos Official
-- Greg Walters
-- 2008-02-06T10:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-06/court-halts-trial-of-aids-stricken-ex-yukos-official-update1-.html

          
          
             A Moscow court suspended the
embezzlement trial of AIDS-stricken former OAO Yukos Oil Co.
executive Vasily Aleksanian, and ordered prison doctors to
determine if he should be moved to a specialized clinic.  
 Aleksanian's defense team insists that he be moved to a
hospital outside the prison for treatment. The former Yukos vice
president is dying of AIDS and also has tuberculosis, his
lawyers say. The European Court of Human Rights has demanded
repeatedly that he be transferred to an outside clinic.  
 ``Treatment in the prison is completely unacceptable to the
European court, and it is placing him at further risk,'' Drew Holiner, a lawyer for the former Yukos vice president, said by
telephone today from  London . ``We're not happy until he gets
moved to a hospital and starts getting the treatment he should
be getting.''  
 Aleksanian was detained on charges of money laundering and
embezzlement soon after joining Yukos in 2006 with the power to
act as head of the company, which was in the process of being
dismantled by the state over tax claims. Yukos was once  Russia 's
biggest company by market value and its largest oil producer.  
 He has accused Russian authorities of offering to release
him only if he testifies against Mikhail Khodorkovsky, Yukos'
former chief executive. Khodorkovsky has been on a hunger strike
since Jan. 29 to protest Aleksanian's detention.  
 Aleksanian, 36, was diagnosed with HIV, the virus that
causes AIDS, a few months after his arrest in April 2006.
Prison officials have said he refused antiretroviral drugs. His
lawyer Yelena Lvova denied this claim.  
 In an open letter to Russian Prosecutor General Yuri Chaika, Khodorkovsky said Aleksanian's situation presented him
with a moral dilemma: whether to admit to false charges to
``save a person's life,'' or to become the possible cause of his
former colleague's death.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Walters in Moscow at 
 gwalters1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        