-- 10-Year Gilts Gain for Third Week as Governments May Buy Debt; Pound Rises
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-09T06:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/10-year-gilts-gain-for-third-week-as-governments-may-buy-debt-pound-rises.html
U.K. government bonds surged for a
third week after reports showed slowing British economic growth
and higher-than-expected U.S. job losses, stoking investor
demand for the safest assets.  The gains pushed gilt yields down to the lowest in almost a
month and the pound climbed against the dollar as U.S. employers
cut staffing by 95,000 workers in September, according to Labor
Department data yesterday. The  National Institute of Economic
and Social Research  said the U.K.’s pace of growth more than
halved in the third quarter. The Bank of England left interest
rates at a record low two days ago and maintained bond purchases
amid speculation it will step up such so-called quantitative
easing to stimulate the economy.  “The main factor driving gilts is that the BOE will follow
in the Federal Reserve’s footsteps and introduce quantitative
easing in the next few months,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-
income strategist in Edinburgh at RIA Capital Markets Ltd., a
broker for banks and money managers. “The European Central Bank
is the odd man out,” meaning gilts are outperforming German
debt, he said.  U.K. government bonds rose 0.5 percent to close at 115.49,
driving the 10-year yield 6 basis points lower to 2.86 percent
as of 5 p.m. in London. That’s the lowest since Sept. 1, when it
reached 2.828 percent. The two-year yield similarly dropped as
many as 5 basis points to 0.601 percent, within 5 basis points
of the record low of 0.559 set on Aug. 24.  Gilts have gained 9.8 percent since the end of 2009,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch unit. German government bonds earned 9.3 percent, while
U.S. Treasuries returned 9.4 percent, the indexes show.  Pound Gains  The U.K.’s gross domestic product rose 0.5 percent in the
three months through September, compared with 1.2 percent in the
quarter through June, the London-based Niesr, whose clients
include the Bank of England, said on Thursday.  Sterling rose against the dollar for the week and was
little changed against the euro. The pound yesterday surged
against both currencies after the U.S. payroll data. The ECB
signaled no intention to loosen monetary policy on Oct. 7.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said there’s “absolutely
no change” in the central bank’s stance from a month ago and
that it will continue to gradually phase out so-called non-
standard liquidity measures.  “The whole story of this week has been broad dollar
weakness, rather than a pound-specific story,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “The market has continued to
price in expectations of aggressive quantitative easing from the
Fed, and the Bank of England is perceived to be in the same
relative position.”  Sterling climbed 0.7 percent against the dollar this week
to trade at $1.5945 as of 5 p.m. yesterday in London, its
strongest in two months. It depreciated 0.1 percent to 87.29
pence per euro, close to its highest in five months, and fell
0.2 percent to 130.60 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  