-- Airgas Loses Effort to Drop Bylaw; Ruling May Speed Air Products Purchase
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-10-09T16:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/airgas-loses-delaware-court-bid-to-cancel-bylaw-changing-annual-meeting.html
Airgas Inc. , trying to fend off a
$5.5 billion hostile bid from  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. ,
lost a bid to invalidate a new bylaw that shortens the date for
the company’s annual meeting, paving the way for a takeover.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge William B. Chandler III
yesterday ruled the bylaw, approved by Airgas shareholders last
month, doesn’t improperly shorten directors’ terms on the
industrial-gas company’s staggered board. Air Products may use
the ruling to take control of Airgas at the January meeting.  While the ruling probably will be appealed, the presumption
is that the decision stands,  Mark Gulley , a New York-based
analyst at Soleil Securities, said today in a telephone
interview. Court testimony indicates Air Products would pay as
much as $70 a share and Airgas would start negotiations at that
price, he said.  “It would be in the interest of both parties to negotiate
a friendly transaction,” Gulley said. He recommends buying
shares of Air Products and rates Airgas “hold.”  Lawyers for Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Airgas had argued
shareholders erred when they voted Sept. 15 in favor of the
bylaw by Air Products, which moved up the date of Airgas’s
annual meeting. It was backed by Air Products.  $65.50 Bid  Investors also added three nominees backed by Allentown,
Pennsylvania-based Air Products to  Airgas’s board . Under the
company’s staggered-board system, adopted to make takeovers more
difficult, only some directors are up for election at one time.  Air Products will ask Airgas investors to add more of their
nominees to the board at the January meeting, giving them
control. The board could then drop anti-takeover protections
that have been thwarting Air Products’s $65.50-a-share bid.  David Reno , an Air Products spokesman, and Airgas spokesman
Andrew Siegel both declined to comment on Chandler’s ruling
today.  Chandler’s ruling came at the conclusion of a week-long
trial in Georgetown, Delaware, in Air Products’s lawsuit
challenging Airgas’s refusal to consider the buyout offer.
He’ll rule later on whether Airgas is violating legal duties to
shareholders by brushing off Air Products’s overtures.  Airgas’s lawyers argued yesterday the company’s directors,
elected to three-year terms, wouldn’t be able to serve their
full stints on the board if the company’s annual meeting is
moved to January from as early as April.  ‘Easy Fix’  In his 41-page ruling, Chandler noted Airgas corporate
charter “does not unambiguously define what is meant by full
term or when the annual meeting must take place.”  Airgas’s bylaws do say the terms of directors up for
election in 2011 expire at that year’s annual meeting, the judge
said.  There’s no requirement under Delaware’s corporate statutes
that Airgas provide a 12-month interval between annual meetings,
Chandler said. The statutes allow the meeting to be set any time
during the calendar year that directors and shareholder deem
appropriate, he added.  “Directors and stockholders are free to specify when the
annual meeting shall occur and they are free to change it as
they see fit so long as they do not violate” Delaware’s
corporate statutes, Chandler wrote.  Air Products’s push to have Airgas’s board move up the
annual meeting in the context of a takeover fight doesn’t weaken
the staggered-board defense, the judge added.  Corporate lawyers can redraft company’s charters and bylaws
in a way to ensure directors don’t come up for re-election
before they serve out their full terms, Chandler said.  “This is not the end of the world for staggered boards,”
the judge said. “It is an easy fix if it needs fixing.”  The case is Airgas Inc. v. Air Products & Chemicals Inc.,
5817, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net  