-- Arab Nations Back Settlement Freeze Demand, Give U.S. Time to Revive Talks
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2010-10-09T13:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/arab-nations-support-abbas-in-linking-peace-talks-to-israel-settlement-ban.html
The Arab League backed the
Palestinian Authority’s position not to resume direct peace
talks until Israel renews a freeze on settlement building, and
gave the U.S. more time to revive the peace effort.  An Arab League committee, conferring with Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  in Sirte, Libya, said late
yesterday in a statement that it will meet in a month to
“explore alternatives” to direct talks. The panel agreed to
give U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration a chance to
“create the suitable circumstances to bring the peace process
back to the right track, mainly stopping the construction of
settlements.”  “There will be no talks until the freeze on the
construction of settlements” returns, Palestinian negotiator
 Nabil Shaath  said in a telephone interview from Ramallah in the
West Bank. The Arab League statement didn’t disclose the
alternatives.  Israel has signaled that a compromise may be reached in the
dispute over settlement construction. Incentives offered by the
Obama administration may allow Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  to push through his Cabinet a limited renewal of the
freeze, Israel’s ambassador to the U.S. said.  “The U.S. has come back to Israel with a number of
suggestions, incentives if you would, that enable the government
to maybe pass a limited extension of two or three months,”
Ambassador  Michael Oren  told the Washington Post.  ‘Positive Signal’  “We appreciate the Arab League’s statement of support for
our efforts to create conditions that will allow direct talks to
move forward,”  Philip Crowley , a spokesman for the U.S.
Department of State, said in a statement. “We will continue to
work with the parties, and all our international partners, to
advance negotiations toward a two-state solution and encourage
the parties to take constructive actions toward that end.”  The U.S. had asked the Arab League yesterday for a
“positive signal” about continuing the negotiations. State
Department spokesman  Mark Toner  said, “it’s only through direct
negotiations that any of these issues are going to ultimately be
resolved.”  Hamas criticized the Arab League decision, saying it was
wrong to support the talks even with the settlement freeze. The
Islamic movement, classified as a terrorist organization by
Israel, the U.S. and the European Union, gained full control of
the Gaza Strip after a clash with Abbas’s Fatah movement in 2007
divided a Palestinian unity government.  Hamas Criticism  “The talks mustn’t be given another chance, because it
gives a cover for any type of negotiations,” Hamas spokesman
 Fawzi Barhoum  said in an e-mailed statement to reporters in
Gaza. “The Arabs must adopt a unified strategy that backs armed
resistance and backs the Palestinians.”  Netanyahu said on Oct. 4 that he was in “sensitive
diplomatic contacts” with the U.S. administration to find a
solution to the crisis that would allow the negotiations to
continue. A 10-month partial Israeli halt to the work expired
Sept. 26.  Palestinian negotiators involved in the talks with Israel
have indicated a willingness to accept a temporary extension of
the building moratorium. The Arab League statement called for a
halt in construction in the West Bank and east Jerusalem, which
the Palestinians seek as a future capital.  One alternative Arabs may consider is asking the United
Nations Security Council to recognize a Palestinian state, chief
Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat  said in an interview with Al
Jazeera television after the meeting.  View From Egypt  “They should not seek alternatives,” said Moustafa El-
Husseini, an Egyptian political commentator and co-author of a
book on the Arab-Israeli conflict entitled “The Dilemma of an
Arab, the Dilemma of a Jew.”  “The strongest option Arabs have is to say we won’t talk
until settlement construction stops,” he said by telephone from
Cairo. Such a position may lead to increased tension between
Netanyahu and Obama in the event Israel refuses to renew the
partial freeze, he added.  The Arab League said that settlement construction eats into
land Palestinians want for their future state.  “If settlement construction continues, all the talk about
a Palestinian state becomes meaningless,”  Amre Moussa ,
secretary-general of the group, said in a telephone interview on
Oct. 7.  “This is everybody’s position,” he said.  “We’re not against negotiations, but we’re not just doing
it for show,” he said.  Violence Rises  The start of peace talks has seen an increase in violence.
Israel said its army killed two members of the Islamic group
Hamas who were suspected of involvement in an attack near a West
Bank settlement in August that left four Israelis dead.   The military wing of Hamas, the al-Qassam Brigades, vowed
to avenge the killings yesterday “by all possible means.”  Israel and the Palestinian Authority agreed last month to
try to reach a comprehensive agreement within a year. They will
have to resolve issues at the core of the conflict, including
the borders of a future Palestinian state, security arrangements
for Israel, the fate of Palestinian refugees and the status of
Jerusalem.  Netanyahu agreed in November to the partial freeze on
settlement construction in a move he said was aimed at
persuading the Palestinians to return to negotiations. The
moratorium didn’t include about 3,000 housing units approved
before the freeze and some public buildings such as
kindergartens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net  