-- Marseille Oil Port Strike Extends to 13 Days, Strands 53 Ships
-- B y   A l a n   K a t z
-- 2010-10-09T12:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/marseille-oil-port-strike-enters-12th-day-forcing-refining-plants-to-halt.html
A strike by workers at the French
port of Marseille was extended for a 13th day, blocking a total
of 53 ships at the oil terminals.  The strike, which began on Sept. 27, has stranded 20 crude-
oil and 15 oil-products tankers, four bulk chemical carriers, 11
gas vessels and three barges, according to an e-mailed statement
from the port authority.  Workers at the merchandise terminals of the port of
Marseille went on a 24-hour strike today, blocking four
container ships and three cargo ships, the port authority said.  The first refinery in France may be forced to shut down as
soon as tomorrow because of the strike, Yves le Goff, a
spokesman for the refiners’ organization Union Francaise des
Industries Petrolieres, said in a telephone interview.  Total SA, Exxon Mobil Corp., Ineos Group Holdings Plc, and
LyondellBasell Industries NV have plants in the region that
account for 31 percent of French refining capacity.  Workers at the oil hub are protesting a law on French port
operations as well as plans by the government to increase the
retirement age. The port has said “all guarantees” have been
given for the strike to end.  The strike at the port will go through Oct. 12, when a
national transport strike is set to begin,  Charles Foulard , a
CGT union spokesman, said in an interview today.  The CGT union’s national port workers branch said earlier
this week that the strike was due to “local problems” and
called for a strike on Oct. 12 at the ports, as well as cutting
back hours and eliminating overtime and weekend shifts.  The Marseille docks have been affected by stoppages in
recent years as unions resisted efforts to move jobs to the
private sector.  A 12-day strike at the oil hub in December 2008 cost
refineries 26 million euros ($36 million), including 15 million
euros related to vessel delays and 11 million euros in lost
revenue, UFIP estimated at the time. A strike at the oil
terminals in March 2007 lasted 17 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Katz in Paris at   akatz5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net . 