-- Asian Stocks Rise for Sixth Week After Central Banks Seen Boosting Growth
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2010-10-09T00:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/asian-stocks-rise-for-sixth-week-after-central-banks-seen-boosting-growth.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a sixth week on
speculation policy makers will do more to spur economic growth
after Japan’s central bank cut its benchmark interest rate and
Australia unexpectedly kept its key rate unchanged.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s largest bank
by market value, surged 3.6 percent in Tokyo after the Bank of
Japan pledged to keep its rate at “virtually zero” and expand
purchases.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s biggest mining company,
gained 3.9 percent in Sydney on optimism demand for commodities
will increase. China Shenhua Energy Co., a unit of the nation’s
largest coal producer, climbed 6.7 percent in Hong Kong after
China said it will seek to boost domestic demand.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 2.4 percent this week to
130.13, and climbed to a two-year high on Oct. 7. The gauge had
its biggest quarterly increase of the past year in the three
months to September amid signs the U.S. economy is regaining
momentum and that China’s economic expansion will continue.  “Investor sentiment has been buoyed by the surprise
decision by the Bank of Japan,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps
manage about $1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne.
“We’re starting to get a second wave of stimulus measures in
major economies at a time when investors had previously thought
the strength of the global recovery was waning.”  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index climbed 2.6 percent in the past
five days. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  gained 2.2 percent
after the Reserve Bank of Australia’s Oct. 5 announcement on
interest rates. South Korea’s Kospi index rose 1.1 percent.  Target Rate  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 2 percent. The Bank
of Japan pledged Oct. 5 to expand its balance sheet by 5
trillion yen ($60 billion), aiming to shore up the nation’s
slowing economic recovery. It lowered the benchmark interest
rate to a range of zero percent to 0.1 percent from the previous
0.1 percent target.  Mitsubishi UFJ  climbed 3.6 percent in Tokyo, and Mizuho
Financial Group Inc., Japan’s third-biggest bank by market value,
jumped 6.7 percent to 127 yen. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc., the No. 2, rose 2.2 percent to 2,502 yen.  “The Bank of Japan’s action may accelerate movements
toward monetary easing globally,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , general
manager of the equities division at Tokyo-based Nikko Cordial
Securities Inc. “Confidence grew that the global economy is on
a recovery track, and investors will likely put money back into
risk assets.”  BHP Billiton , which counts China as its largest market for
sales, rose 3.9 percent to A$41 in Sydney.  Alumina Ltd.  jumped
9.7 percent to A$1.985 in Sydney. It surged 3.9 percent
yesterday, after partner Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, reported third-quarter profit that topped analysts’
expectations. Cnooc Ltd., China’s third-largest oil producer,
climbed 6.9 percent to HK$16.08 in Hong Kong.  China Demand  China Shenhua advanced 6.7 percent to HK$34.25 after
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in an interview with CNN that
the nation will stimulate domestic demand to stabilize and
further expand its economy. China Mobile Ltd., the world’s
biggest phone carrier by customers, gained 3.2 percent to HK$82.  China’s non-manufacturing industries expanded at a faster
pace in September behind increases in construction and consumer
spending. A purchasing managers’ index released Oct. 3 by the
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing rose to 61.7 from
60.1 in August.  China Sales  Also boosting Asian stocks this week was a Chinese
government report that showed retail and catering sales jumped
18.7 percent during the Oct. 1 to Oct. 7 holidays from the same
period a year ago. Separately, Moody’s Investors Service said it
put China’s A1 debt rating on review for a possible upgrade.  Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd., Australia’s second-largest
airline, climbed 6.9 percent to 46.5 Australian cents in the
week after Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens kept
the overnight cash rate target at 4.5 percent on Oct. 5, as
forecast by only six of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Stevens said it’s likely higher borrowing costs will be needed
“at some point.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has risen about 20 percent from
this year’s low on May 25 and has gained more than 7 percent in
2010 on speculation profit growth will weather Europe’s debt
crisis, China’s steps against property-price gains and concern
about the pace of the U.S. recovery.  The International Monetary Fund said Oct. 6 that high
unemployment, public debt and fragile banking systems pose risks
to global prosperity, urging policy makers to take bolder steps
to ensure a sustained recovery. The world economy will expand
4.2 percent next year, the Washington-based IMF said, down from
its forecast of 4.3 percent three months ago. The fund projects
growth of 4.8 percent this year, up from 4.6 percent.  Tug Of War  “There’s a tug of war in the markets between good factors
and bad factors,” said  Kenji Sekiguchi , general manager of
strategic research and investment at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $75 billion in Tokyo.  Among stocks that declined this week,  Samsung Electronics
Co. , Asia’s biggest maker of semiconductors, lost 2.5 percent to
758,000 won in Seoul after reporting third-quarter operating
income of 4.8 trillion won ($4.3 billion), short of the 5.03
trillion won average estimate from 11 analyst estimates surveyed
by Bloomberg.  “Concerns about the fourth quarter will get more
serious,” said  Kim Young Joon , an analyst at LIG Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul. “It’s becoming increasingly certain
profitability from semiconductors will worsen and television
margins will stay bad because of prices.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicolas Johnson at 
 nicojohnson@blomberg.net . 