-- Australia's Murray-Darling Water Plan Will Raise Food Prices, Farmers Say
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-10-09T02:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/australia-s-murray-darling-water-plan-will-raise-food-prices-farmers-say.html
Plans to cut irrigation by as much as
37 percent in Australia’s Murray-Darling Basin, home to almost
half of the nation’s farms, will raise fresh food prices, the
country’s main farming organization said.  Reducing the amount of water flowing to farms will cost
“thousands” of jobs and increase reliance on imported food,
National Farmers’ Federation President  David Crombie  said in a
statement on the organization’s website. The Murray-Darling
Basin Authority released a guide to its plan yesterday that said
about 800 full-time jobs may be lost.  The Authority, which manages water resources in an area
almost 1-1/2 times the size of Texas, recommended the government
buy as much as 4,000 gigaliters of water from irrigators and
divert it to the river system. About 93 percent of Australia’s
fresh food comes from the region, which accounts for A$15
billion ($14.6 billion) of Australian crop and livestock exports,
according to government figures.  “Australian food grown fresh for Australian consumers will
take a massive hit and Australian families will have to get used
to paying more,” Crombie said. “Agricultural production and
environmental needs are not mutually exclusive, they can and
need to be balanced.”  Next year’s release of the basin plan will be followed by
15 weeks of consultation before being presented to the
government and to Parliament in late 2011 or early 2012. State
governments will be required to write new water resources plans
to take effect across all the states by 2019.  Job Losses  The  New South Wales Irrigators Council , which represents
farmers in Australia’s most populous state, estimated job losses
from the plan may be 17,000 and recommended its members attend
the consultation sessions.  “If you eat or wear natural fiber, you’re affected by
this,” Council Chief Executive Officer Andrew Gregson said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Water is an issue for Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who had
to form a minority government with backing from the Greens Party
and three independents from rural farming districts after the
Aug. 21 election delivered the closest result in 70 years.  To secure backing for her government’s legislative agenda,
Gillard must satisfy the independents and the Greens, who want
more water diverted to protect the environment in the world’s
driest inhabited continent.  Farmers are granted entitlements to set amounts of
irrigated water and the buyback plan would cost the government
as much as A$4 billion on current pricing, the authority said
yesterday.  Catchment Area  The catchment area for the Murray and Darling rivers, as
well as their tributaries, covers more than 1.06 million square
kilometers across four of the nation’s six states.  Average rainfall in the region is 530,618 gigaliters, about
1,000 times the volume of Sydney Harbor, with 94 percent of the
water evaporating and 4 percent ending up as runoff, according
to the Authority’s  website . The region produces 53 percent of
Australian cereals grown for grains and 95 percent of the
country’s oranges.  Diversions listed in the plan would see the value of
irrigated cotton production fall by 25 percent in the basin, so-
called broadacre agriculture, which includes rice and cereals,
would fall 30 percent, dairying 10 percent and horticulture by
less than 5 percent, according to the report.  Australia is emerging from a drought that began in 2002,
slashing grain and cotton crops and denting the farm industry
that makes up almost 12 percent of the economy, compared with 8
percent for mining, according to industry figures. Above-average
rainfall this year may boost wheat production to the third-
highest on record, the government’s commodity forecaster says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  