-- Boston Generating Sale to Constellation Advances After Bankruptcy Ruling
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-10-09T20:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/boston-generating-sale-to-constellation-advances-after-bankruptcy-ruling.html
Boston Generating LLC’s plan to sell
its power plants to  Constellation Energy Group Inc.  for
$1.1 billion moved ahead after a bankruptcy court judge approved
an auction of the assets.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Shelley Chapman  in Manhattan today
approved Boston Generating’s auction and bidding rules. Chapman,
who considered the asset sale at a four-day hearing that ended
Oct. 7, overruled objections by creditors including Fortress
Investment Group LLC.  Chapman said in a decision read from the bench that the
plan was a “valid exercise” of the company’s business
judgment. The sale process “was a disinterested decision made
in good faith” by its board, she said.  Boston Generating, the operating unit of EBG Holdings LLC,
filed for bankruptcy with its parent in August with plans to
sell five power plants in the Boston area to Baltimore-based
Constellation for $1.1 billion, unless higher bids surfaced at
the auction.  “There was an impending liquidity crisis,”  Jeff Hunter ,
the company’s chief financial officer, said in court on Oct. 6.
“Forecasts showed we’d run out of cash by the first week of
April.”  Fortress and creditors including MatlinPatterson Global
Advisers LLC and CarVal Investors LLC, holders of Boston
Generating’s $350 million of second-lien debt, opposed the sale
because they wouldn’t receive a recovery on those claims.
Fortress and CarVal also own some of Boston Generating’s
$1.1 billion of first-lien debt, according to the filings.  Moving Too Fast  The creditors said Boston Generating was moving too fast to
sell its assets and that the auction rules would discourage
rival offers.  “There is no evidence in the record that the debtor’s
operating business will have a liquidity crisis in the future,”
 Andrew Leblanc , a lawyer for Fortress and Car-Val, said in his
closing argument Oct. 7.  Leblanc said Boston Generating had a “single-minded
focus” on divesting the assets in a bankruptcy sale “because
it was tired of dealing with its creditors.”  The creditors also criticized the $30 million breakup fee
that would be paid Constellation if it doesn’t win the auction.  “It is the best bid obtained after an incredibly fulsome
marketing process,”  Robert Rosenberg , a lawyer for Boston
Generating, said during a court hearing. “There is no reason to
believe it will be here next March or next April” when the
company “runs out of cash,” he said of the Constellation bid.  Potential Buyers  Boston Generating said 199 potential buyers were contacted.
Constellation was selected as the stalking-horse bidder for the
auction, which means other potential bidders would have to offer
more for the assets.  “None of the objectors came forward with a higher and
better bid than the Constellation bid,” David Bryan, a lawyer
for Credit Suisse AG, the agent for the first-lien lenders,
said in his closing argument Oct. 7.  EBG Holdings, based in New York, is a wholly owned
subsidiary of  US Power Generating Co.  US Power, which operates
eight electric power-generating facilities in New York and New
England, said in July that it wanted to sell another unit,
Astoria Generating Co. Holdings LLC. Astoria, which supplies
electricity in the New York City area, didn’t file for
bankruptcy court protection.  The case is In re Boston Generating LLC, 10-14419, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York bankruptcy court
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net  and;
 Don Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 