-- C2 Options Exchange Asks Federal Court to Rule on Trading System Patent
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-10-09T18:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/c2-options-exchange-asks-federal-court-to-rule-on-trading-system-patent.html
A new options exchange owned by  CBOE
Holdings Inc.  asked a U.S. court yesterday to rule that the
trading system it will use doesn’t infringe on a patent held by
the International Securities Exchange.  C2 Options Exchange, which filed for a “declaratory
judgment” in federal court in Illinois, is an electronic market
that plans to begin trading equity derivatives contracts this
month. CBOE Holdings also owns the Chicago Board Options
Exchange, the largest venue by volume traded.  The move is the latest relating to litigation that began in
November 2006, when New York-based ISE sued CBOE for infringing
on a patent it received in 2003. The exchange said CBOE’s so-
called hybrid trading system infringed on its patent for an
automated system that matches outstanding orders with incoming
buy and sell requests. The litigation isn’t yet resolved.  “In filing its complaint against ISE, C2 is seeking to be
proactive in asserting and protecting its rights relating to its
trading platform,” according to an e-mailed statement from C2.
The patent “is the same one that ISE previously asserted
against CBOE’s Hybrid Trading System in a co-pending
litigation.”  Molly McGregor , an ISE spokeswoman, declined to comment.
ISE is owned by Frankfurt-based Eurex.  C2 said in its complaint that it wants to operate the new
exchange “free from any and all charges of infringement.” A
lawyer for ISE told the judge in the pending litigation case on
Sept. 28 that ISE “regarded the C2 exchange to be an
infringement” of its patent, the complaint said.  Options Volumes  ISE in 2000 became the first new exchange approved by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission since 1973. The all-
electronic venue, which began trading in May 2000, became the
largest U.S. exchange for options, excluding index products, in
2003. ISE last month accounted for 18 percent of overall options
volume, according to data compiled by Chicago-based Options
Clearing Corp. CBOE was the largest, with 26.3 percent, followed
by Nasdaq OMX PHLX, with 23.6 percent. PHLX is owned by New
York-based Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  Nasdaq OMX’s two options markets have 28.2 percent of
overall volume. New York-based NYSE Euronext, which also
operates two options exchanges, has 24.2 percent of volume.  Reuters reported on the exchange’s court request yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 