-- Canadian Dollar Rises for Sixth Week as Fed May Make More Debt Purchases
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2010-10-09T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/canadian-dollar-rises-for-sixth-week-as-fed-may-make-more-debt-purchases.html
Canada’s dollar rose against the
greenback for the sixth straight week, the longest stretch since
May 2009, after a weak U.S. jobs report added to signals the
Federal Reserve will buy more debt to bolster the economy.  The loonie touched a five-month high this week as the U.S.
dollar tumbled against all 16 of its most-traded currencies and
crude oil, Canada’s largest export, hovered around a five-month
high, making investments linked to growth more attractive. The
Canadian currency is up 5.1 percent since Aug. 31, when it
touched a two-month low. Investors will monitor reports next
week on home prices, international trade and car sales.  “The main driver of the loonie this week has been the
increased potential for more quantitative easing out of the
U.S., which has weakened the dollar and overridden any weak data
coming out of Canada,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of
foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada in Toronto. “The
potential for further Fed action has been a boon for
commodities, equities and other risk assets.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, strengthened 0.8
percent to C$1.0111 per U.S. dollar from C$1.0197 on Oct. 1. It
touched C$1.0063 on Oct. 6, the strongest since April 30. One
Canadian dollar buys 98.90 U.S. cents.  Market Drivers  The Standard & Poor’s 500 index rose 1.7 percent this week
and crude oil for November delivery rose 1.3 percent to $82.66 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Crude oil is
Canada’s largest export and the loonie tends to track oil and
stock prices.  Canada’s employers cut 6,600 jobs in September after an
increase of 35,800 in the previous month, Statistics Canada
reported yesterday. The median forecast of 17 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of 10,000. The unemployment
rate dropped to 8 percent from 8.1 percent.  The Bank of Canada raised its policy interest rate by a
quarter-percentage point to 1 percent on Sept. 8, the third
increase this year. The Bank of Canada’s next rate announcement
is Oct. 19.  “This puts the final nail in the coffin for a rate
increase in October from the Bank of Canada,” said  Blake Jespersen , director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal in
Toronto.  Job Cuts  U.S. employers cut staffing by 95,000 after a revised
57,000 decrease in August, Labor Department figures in
Washington showed yesterday. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 5,000 drop. The
unemployment rate unexpectedly held at 9.6 percent.  “The prospect of more moderate growth going forward
suggests that labor-market conditions will improve more slowly
in the months ahead and that the unemployment rate will only
gradually drift lower,”  George Davis , chief technical analyst
at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, wrote in a
note.  He said a move below C$1.0158 against the greenback would
signal strength in the loonie versus its U.S. counterpart.  Statistics Canada on Oct. 13 may report a 0.1 percent
decline in the August for the new housing price index, matching
the July figure, according to the median in a survey of 9
economists by Bloomberg News.  Economic Indicators  Canada’s international merchandise trade deficit is
forecast to have narrowed to C$2.3 billion ($2.3 billion) in
August from C$2.7 billion in July and new cars sales are
forecast to have declined 5 percent in August after a 2.4
percent gain in July, according to separate surveys.  The Bank of Canada said its quarterly poll of executives
found a record high gauge of investment plans and optimism about
future sales, as well as easier access to credit.  Some 46 percent of companies said they plan to increase
machinery and equipment investment during the next 12 months
while 10 percent predicted less, the Bank of Canada said
yesterday in its quarterly Business Outlook Survey from Ottawa.
The bank said this was the widest gap since executives were
first asked the question in 1998.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said Oct. 1 in St.
Catharines, Ontario, he expects “modest” third-quarter
economic growth and that the unemployment rate is still too
high.  Goldman Cuts  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has lowered its growth forecast
for the Canadian economy through the end of this year.  The bank cut its third-quarter growth forecast to a 1.5
percent annualized rate from 2.5 percent, and reduced its
fourth-quarter projection to 2 percent from 2.5 percent,
according to an e-mailed note to clients from Goldman Sachs
economist  Andrew Tilton .  The government 10-year benchmark bond yield declined 11
basis points to 2.68 percent. The 3.5 percent securities
maturing in June 2020 rose 93 cents to C$106.90.  Economists cut their forecasts for Canadian bond yields for
a third month, predicting slower inflation and a more gradual
pace of central-bank lending rate increases than they did a
month ago, a Bloomberg survey showed.  The government’s 10-year bond will yield 3 percent at the
end of the year, according to the median of 14 estimates
gathered by Bloomberg News, down from 3.35 percent in the
previous monthly survey. The Bank of Canada will raise its
benchmark rate from 1 percent in the second quarter of next year
instead of by year-end, the survey found.  “You have an economy undergoing more incremental rates of
growth,” said  Stewart Hall , an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc
in Toronto. “The Bank of Canada going into its October rate
meeting has enough soft data to defend staying on the
sidelines.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  