-- Trapped Chile Miners Eat NASA Diet, Aspirin to Prepare for Coming Rescue
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-10T00:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/chile-trapped-miners-ordeal-nears-end-as-drill-seeks-underground-chamber.html
Chilean officials working to rescue
33 miners trapped half a mile underground said a drill broke
through into the chamber today where the men have been stranded
for more than two months.  A crowd made up of family members, hundreds of foreign and
local journalists and government officials erupted into cheers
and chanted “Long Live Chile” as alarm bells signalled that
the drill had dug through at 8:05 a.m. local time.  “It’s unbelievable; it’s an emotion you can’t explain,”
said Jeff Hart, the operator of the drilling rig. “It was
extremely hard, harder than we expected.”  Authorities today prepared the rescue site before running a
camera down the shaft that determined the well is in “good
condition,” Mining Minister  Laurence Golborne  told reporters at
the mine in northern Chile. Rescue workers today decided to case
as much as 96 meters (315 feet) of the 620-meter rescue well to
ensure miners won’t get trapped as they exit the mine, he said.  Rescue workers will start casing the well this evening in
time to start extracting miners on Oct. 13, Golborne said. The
casing work will take 1 1/2 days, he said.  The final stretch of drilling today was precarious up until
the last meter, Hart said in a televised press conference.  ‘Nerve Wracking’  “It was very nerve wracking,” said Hart, an operations
manager at Layne Christensen, a drilling company assisting in
the efforts. “Until you actually broke through, nothing else
matters. You can have a failure in the last meter and lose the
entire hole.”  The miners have been trapped since Aug. 5 after an access
tunnel caved in at Cia. Minera San Esteban Primera SA’s San Jose
copper and gold mine in the Atacama region. Chilean state-run
Codelco,  BHP Billiton Ltd.  and other mining companies assisted
in what has become the world’s longest-ever mine rescue.  Family members and union officials had urged rescue workers
to install casing to ensure the miners’ safety.  “We’ve waited for two months, we can wait another two
days,” Norma Laques, whose son Jimmy Suarez, 19, is the
youngest of the trapped miners.  The miners’ only contact with the outside world has been
through tiny drill holes into which people on the surface send
down food, water, medicine and games such as dominoes.  Medical Facilities  As engineers prepared the rescue shaft, workers on the
surface were rehearsing plans to extract the miners and
transport them to a nearby hospital. Medical facilities will be
ready by Oct. 11.  The miners are split into three groups. The most skilful
will come out first in case they are needed to go back down to
assist others, Health Minister  Jaime Manalich  told reporters
today. The weakest will then come out, with the rest to follow.  When the rescue starts, a tube 24 inches wide will be
lowered into the hole, which measures 26 inches at its narrowest
point, Enes Zepeda, an engineer and director of the Codelco’s
supervisors’ union, said at an event on Oct. 7. Once they start
pulling out the men, it will take about 90 minutes per person to
complete the rescue, he said.  President  Sebastian Pinera  may reschedule a trip to Europe
to greet the miners as they are rescued, First Lady  Cecilia Morel  said in televised comments today after arriving at the
site.  Bolivian President  Evo Morales  also wants to attend the
rescue ceremony to greet the miner from his country who is
trapped underground, Pinera said yesterday.  ‘Safe and Sound’  Pinera doesn’t plan to visit the mine site today and may
arrive as soon as Oct. 12 after a visit to Ecuador, he said.  “I hope the rescue takes place sometime next week,”
Pinera said. “It doesn’t matter if it’s Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday. What’s important is rescuing them safe and sound.”  Pinera’s approval rating has increased since his government
started the rescue operation more than two months ago, while
Golborne has become the most popular member of the president’s
cabinet.  Pinera’s popularity grew to 57 percent in September from 54
percent in a May poll, Santiago-based research group Center for
the Study of Contemporary Reality, or CERC, said in a report
published Oct. 7. The Sept. 3-13 poll of 1,200 people has a
margin of error of 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nathan Crooks  in Santiago at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 Rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  