-- China to Cut Current Account Surplus Through Gradual Adjustment, Yi Says
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-10-09T22:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/china-to-cut-current-account-surplus-through-gradual-adjustment-yi-says.html
China plans to cut its current
account surplus and proceed with foreign-exchange reform to help
rebalance the global economy, central bank deputy governor  Yi Gang  said.  China aims to reduce the surplus below 4 percent of its
 gross domestic product  in the next three to five years, from 11
percent in 2007 and 5.8 percent in 2009, Yi said at a panel
during an  International Monetary Fund  meeting in Washington.
That would be the smallest surplus in its current account, the
broadest measure of trade in goods and services, since 2004.  China is under pressure from the Western nations to allow
the yuan to rise at a faster pace to help reduce its trade
surplus with the U.S. and Europe.  “The adjustment is necessary,” Yi said today. “We are
committed to do our share of adjustment. We are committed to a
more flexible exchange regime. But the approach is probably a
gradual one.”  Yi said China has received undeserved criticism for its
currency policy, saying Beijing has allowed the yuan to
appreciate more than 20 percent in the past five years.  Global finance chiefs at the IMF meeting this week warned a
race to weaker exchange rates in countries from China, to Brazil
and Japan risks hurting the world economy.  Tension Fueled  Yi said it was the monetary policies from major developed
world that helped fuel the global tension on currencies. Record-
low borrowing costs in the U.S., Europe and Japan are prompting
investors to pile into emerging market assets and create
appreciation pressure for those currencies, Yi added.  “We have to look at the problem globally and where is the
origin of the problem,” Yi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  