-- Constellation Halts `Unworkable' U.S. Loan on Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Plant
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2010-10-09T13:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/constellation-halts-unworkable-u-s-loan-on-calvert-cliffs-nuclear-plant.html
Constellation Energy Group Inc. has
told the U.S. Department of Energy it cannot proceed with the
loan guarantee application for UniStar Nuclear Energy LLC’s
Calvert Cliffs 3 nuclear energy facility project in Maryland.  The proposed terms and conditions of the guarantee are
“unworkable” and the cost of the loan as calculated by the
Office of Management and Budget is “unreasonably burdensome,”
Constellation said in a statement today.  The Baltimore-based company, which was developing the
Calvert Cliffs project with  Electricite de France SA , said it
has written to the Department of Energy about the matter.  Constellation said “no decisions have been made regarding
the future of Calvert Cliffs 3.”  EDF said it was “extremely disappointed and shocked” that
Constellation had “unilaterally decided” to withdraw from the
project.  “Constellation knows that we were at the finish line,”
Paris-based EDF said in an e-mailed statement. It has withdrawn
“in spite of our repeated efforts to substantially decrease
their exposure and risk to the project.”  EDF bought half of Constellation’s nuclear business for
$4.5 billion in 2009 when the French utility was headed by
Pierre Gadonneix. The deal helped it keep a foothold in the U.S.
and thwarted a takeover of Constellation by  Warren Buffett ’s
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co.  ‘Timely Path’  Constellation said there was “a significant problem” in
the way the Office of Management and Budget calculates the
credit cost.  “After repeated unsuccessful attempts to resolve this
issue with DOE and OMB, we no longer see a timely path to
reaching a workable set of terms and conditions,” the statement
said.  Constellation spokesman Lawrence McDonnell declined to
comment further on the company’s statement or on the response by
EDF. He also declined to comment on whether Constellation has
decided to exercise its option under the 2008 agreement, when
EDF acquired its stake in its U.S. reactors, to sell up to $2
billion of non-nuclear power plants to EDF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Airlie  at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  