-- Constellation Drops Nuclear Plant, Denting EDF's U.S. Plans
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   A l a n   K a t z
-- 2010-10-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/constellation-drops-maryland-nuclear-plant-loan-denting-edf-s-u-s-plans.html
Constellation Energy Group Inc. 
pulled out of negotiations on a $7.5 billion loan guarantee to
build a nuclear reactor in Maryland with  Electricite de France
SA , potentially damaging the French utility’s U.S. expansion
plans and the companies’ partnership.  The cost of the U.S. government loan guarantee that the
companies’ joint venture, UniStar Nuclear Energy, would
need to build the Calvert Cliffs 3 reactor is too high and
creates too much risk for Constellation, the Baltimore-based
utility said in a statement yesterday. The statement said the
next step is up to EDF.  Constellation’s decision may make it more likely that the
U.S. utility will exercise a put option forcing EDF to buy as
much as $2 billion of Constellation’s non-nuclear power plants,
said  Ingo Becker , head of utilities sector research at Kepler
Capital Markets.  “EDF very clearly said if they exercise the put, this
thing is over,” Becker said. “Constellation may have just
turned around the calendar and pulled out of the new build
before exercising the put, anticipating EDF’s reaction.”  In a letter Oct. 8 to  Daniel Poneman , deputy secretary
of the U.S. Department of Energy, Constellation said it received
a government estimate that the venture would have to pay about
$880 million to the U.S. Treasury for the loan guarantee,
“dramatically out of line with both our own independent
assessments and of what the figure should reasonably be.”  Increased Risks  Further negotiations only increased the risks and failed to
significantly lower the cost figure, Constellation said in a
letter posted on the Washington Post  website  and confirmed
by Constellation.  Obama administration officials were “surprised to get that
letter,” said  Kenneth Baer , spokesman for the White House
Office of Management and Budget, in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  “DOE had been working with them diligently on this complex
transaction and even on the day they sent this news had a
modified set of loan terms that responded to the concerns they
had,” Baer said. “We urge Constellation and its partners to
examine this modified set of terms and continue working on this
project.”  Poneman, reached by telephone yesterday, declined to
comment. Department of Energy spokeswomen Tiffany Edwards and
Stephanie Mueller didn’t immediately return messages requesting
comment.  EDF, the world’s biggest operator of nuclear plants, said
it was shocked by Constellation’s withdrawal.  Finish Line  “We were at the finish line with the Department of Energy
and were making significant progress,” Paris-based EDF said in
an e-mailed statement. “Constellation has withdrawn from CC3 in
spite of our repeated efforts to substantially decrease their
exposure and risk to the project.”  Constellation Energy spokesman  Lawrence McDonnell  declined
to comment on the company’s statement or EDF’s response. He
also declined to comment on whether Constellation has decided to
exercise its put option.  Constellation gained the option in a 2008 agreement in
which EDF paid $4.5 billion for a half stake in the U.S.
company’s reactors. The deal kept EDF’s nuclear foothold in the
U.S., thwarting a takeover by Warren Buffett’s MidAmerican
Energy Holdings Co.  More Favorable Terms  Constellation’s pullout might also be an effort to win more
favorable loan guarantee terms, said  Daniele Seitz , a New York-
based utility analyst for Dudack Research Group.  “Building a nuclear plant for Constellation would be an
investment of $5 billion or more with no return for 10 years, so
it needs help,” Seitz said. “Constellation may feel that the
government is not willing to bear enough share of the cost.”  It could also be a way to put pressure on EDF to fund more
of the construction, she said. EDF, which is building a reactor
based on the same design in Flamanville, France, estimates the
cost of the French reactor at 5 billion euros ($7 billion).  Separately, Constellation’s plan to purchase conventional
power plants from Boston Generating LLC for $1.1 billion moved
ahead yesterday after a bankruptcy court judge approved an
auction of the assets.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Shelley Chapman  in Manhattan
approved Boston Generating’s auction and bidding rules. Chapman,
who considered the asset sale at a four-day hearing that ended
Oct. 7, overruled objections by creditors including Fortress
Investment Group LLC.  Decline in Profit  Constellation’s profit declined 34 percent to $143.5
million, or 36 cents, in the second-quarter ended June 30. Sales
fell 14 percent to $3.31 billion. Its shares have dropped 8.6
percent this year. Constellation will announce third-quarter
earnings Oct. 29.  Constellation’s pullout from the Calvert Cliffs expansion
could halt the first project in EDF’s program to develop a new
generation of reactors in the U.S. The reactors, called EPR, are
designed by Paris-based Areva SA.  EDF on July 30 reported a 47 percent drop in first-half
profit on a charge linked to the Calvert Cliffs project and the
outlook for lower prices in the U.S. Net income was 1.7
billion euros in the first half compared with 3.1 billion euros
the previous year. That missed the 2.52 billion euro median
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  EDF shares have declined 24 percent this year.  Ameren, Northrop Grumman  Other companies with plans that might be affected by a
collapse of the Constellation-EDF partnership include Ameren
Corp., the St. Louis-based utility owner that has proposed
building an Areva-designed reactor, and Northrop Grumman Corp.,
which proposed a plant in Virginia to build parts for Areva
reactors, Seitz said.  “We’re very disappointed and even surprised” by
Constellation’s announcement, said  Shaun Adamec , press secretary
for Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley , who had personally
lobbied U.S. President  Barack Obama  on behalf of the loan
guarantee. “Everyone would agree we were close to the finish
line.”  The U.S. government has approved one conditional loan
guarantee for a nuclear power project, to Southern Co., which
can recover costs during construction under Georgia law.
Maryland regulations say that power plant construction costs can
be passed through to customers only once the plant is operating,
the Washington Post said.  Committed to U.S.  While the future of the Calvert Cliffs plant on the
Chesapeake Bay about 45 miles (72 kilometers) southeast of
Washington is “unclear,” EDF said it “remains committed to
pursuing new nuclear in the U.S.”  EDF would look for new U.S. partners to build reactors
should arrangements with Constellation collapse, according to
the Oct. 4 note by analyst Ameet Thakkar, citing an analyst
lunch with EDF Group Senior Executive Vice President of Finance
 Thomas Piquemal .  That might prove difficult, Kepler’s Becker said.  “Constellation is saying that nuclear new build is not
attractive at this time, and they are not a small utility,”
Becker said. “That doesn’t bode well for EDF.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net 
 Alan Katz  in Paris at   akatz5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net . 