-- Currency Tensions May Be Curbed With IMF Help, Strauss-Kahn Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-10-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/currency-tensions-may-be-curbed-with-imf-help-strauss-kahn-says.html
International Monetary Fund  Managing
Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  is seeking to boost the fund’s
role in helping to temper conflicts over currencies.  As finance chiefs gather in Washington for the IMF’s annual
meeting, Strauss-Kahn is promoting the institution as the
“right place” to make progress on increasingly tense currency
issues. He said the fund would publish reports outlining
linkages between economies and called for a “systemic stability
initiative” using IMF experts to help tackle global imbalances.  Using currencies as weapons “is not a solution” and “it
can even lead to a very bad situation,” Strauss-Kahn said in a
speech in Washington yesterday. “There’s no domestic solution
to a global problem.”  The IMF meeting began amid concern a “currency war,” a
term first used by Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  last
week, is being fought by nations keen to embrace weaker exchange
rates as a route to stronger economic growth. The dollar dropped
below 82 yen for the first time since 1995 yesterday on
speculation the Federal Reserve will soon deliver more economic
stimulus.  “For lack of a better alternative, the IMF has to play an
active role in trying to mitigate currency competition,” said
 Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a
former IMF official. “But the IMF power is really limited to
persuasion because it has few good instruments to promote
cooperation among member countries who are unwilling to modify
their policies.”  Dominate Discussions  While the currency issue threatens to dominate discussions
among IMF leaders, Chinese leaders said they would stick to a
gradual rise in the yuan’s value to avoid social turmoil.  “China’s exchange-rate policy is based on the market
supply and demand relation to move gradually to the equilibrium
point,” China’s central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  told a
panel discussion yesterday. “We do that in a gradual way,
rather than a shock therapy.”  Zhou also said exchange rates won’t solve U.S.
unemployment, rejecting a widely held view in the U.S. Congress.  Countries with fixed currency exchange rates “invite
retaliation,” Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told
reporters yesterday.  “There are consequences that are bad for world economic
recovery, for a world economic recovery that is fragile by other
countries maintaining relative inflexibility in their
currencies,” he said.  Strauss-Kahn said the IMF over the past three years has
been “the only institution repeatedly to say” that the yuan
was “substantially undervalued.”  National Policy  The IMF is working on new “spillover reports” to show how
a country’s policy can affect other nations, he said, adding
that such work can help “understand the two sides.”  The IMF reports will focus on the U.S., China, the U.K.,
Japan and the euro area. They will show, for instance, how the
U.S. monetary policy affects capital flows to other countries,
he said yesterday.  “It’s very unlikely that China will come on board because
they already feel they’re unfairly singled out,” said Prasad,
who used to head of the China division at the IMF.  The Washington-based institution has also crafted proposals
to Group of 20 leaders that can help lift global growth by 2.5
percentage points within five years, according to Strauss-Kahn.  Many advanced nations such as the U.S. have yet to adopt
policies that will cut their reliance on government spending and
boost household demand and exports, the IMF said this week in
its World Economic Outlook report. At the same time, developing
nations such as China are keeping their currencies weak and
remain overly dependent on overseas sales to spur growth.  “We have to launch a kind of systemic stability initiative
to go further in this direction,” Strauss-Kahn said Oct. 7 when
speaking of correcting imbalances. “We have the different
tools, analysis to do it, and I think that if the membership is
willing to participate in this kind of discussion, we can make
progress in the coming time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  