-- Daimler May Make $16 Million From Auction of Koons Sculpture
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2010-10-09T23:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/daimler-may-make-16-million-from-new-york-sale-of-koons-balloon-sculpture.html
Daimler AG , the world’s second-
largest maker of luxury vehicles, is hoping to raise as much as
$16 million from the November auction in New York of a  Jeff Koons  sculpture from its corporate art collection.  The chromium steel work, “Balloon Flower (Blue),” will be
included in  Christie’s International’s  Nov. 10 contemporary-art
sale, the London-based auction house said yesterday in an e-
mail.  Daimler is sure to receive a minimum preset amount,
courtesy of an unidentified third-party guarantor, said
Christie’s. The low estimate is $12 million.  The 11-foot (3.3 meter) work was made by Koons in 1995-2000
as part of his “Celebration” series of high-tech sculptures
inspired by children’s parties and lovers’ gifts.  One of five versions in different colors, it stood for many
years in Berlin’s Potsdamer Platz. Daimler acquired the work
directly from the artist. Proceeds from the sale will be used to
develop the  Daimler Art Collection , which comprises almost 2,000
works, Christie’s said.  Auction prices for Koons’s “Celebration” sculptures
surged during the art boom. In November 2007, New York-based
collector  Adam Lindemann  sold “Hanging Heart (Magenta/ Gold)”
at  Sotheby’s  in New York for $23.6 million, an auction record
for a living artist. He was reported to have bought the
sculpture from the  Gagosian Gallery  for $4 million in 2005.  Rachofsky’s Flower  Another version of “Balloon Flower”, in magenta, was sold
by Dallas-based collector  Howard Rachofsky  at Christie’s in
London in June 2008, for an artist record of 12.9 million pounds
(then $25.8 million). Both sellers were guaranteed minimum
prices by the auction houses.  Sotheby’s , Christie’s and Phillips de Pury & Co. announced
at the end of 2008 that they themselves would no longer be
offering minimum prices to sellers after several high-value
guaranteed works failed in the last quarter. Guarantees are now
making a limited comeback, through third parties.  An external guarantor has promised a minimum price to the
Los Angeles-based seller of  David Hockney’s  1978 watercolor,
“Autumn Pool (Paper Pool 29)” at Phillips in London on Oct.
13. The six-part work, featured on the front cover of the
catalog, is estimated to fetch at least 700,000 pounds.  Lindemann is another seller at Phillips’s  Frieze Week 
auction. The New York-based collector has consigned a group of
13 works by younger German artists such as  Jonathan Meese  (born
1970),  Anselm Reyle  (born 1970) and  Andre Butzer  (born 1973).  “This is just a small selection from Adam Lindemann’s
German material,”  Phillips’s  London-based specialist Henry
Allsopp said in an interview. “He thought the chance to sell in
an evening auction during Frieze Week was a good opportunity.”  Most of the works had been acquired from Berlin galleries
within the last five years. The most highly valued is Reyle’s
Koons-influenced purple chrome abstract sculpture, “Untitled.”
Dating from 2006, it is estimated to sell for 100,000 pounds to
150,000 pounds.  The Lindemann lots aren’t guaranteed, Allsopp said.  ( Scott Reyburn  writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 