-- Mexico Is Accumulating More Dollar Reserves Than Expected, Carstens Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n   a n d   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-10-09T01:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/mexico-is-accumulating-more-dollar-reserves-than-expected-carstens-says.html
Mexican central bank Governor  Agustin Carstens  said the country has accumulated more foreign reserves
than policy makers expected because of strong oil exports and
more debt placements.  Mexico’s currency commission, made up of  central bank  and
Finance Ministry officials, will soon discuss “the speed at
which it accumulates reserves” through a policy to buy as much
as $600 million a month through options, Carstens said in an
interview.  “At this stage we are happy with the rate, with the way
the option mechanism has worked,” Carstens, 52, said in
Washington, where he is attending the annual meeting of the
International Monetary Fund.  “Nevertheless, we have been accumulating more reserves
than what we anticipated based on strong oil exports and higher
debt placements,” he said. “Therefore, in the context of the
currency commission, relatively soon we will need to discuss
this issue.”  The commission in charge of currency auctions in  Latin
America’s second-largest economy  announced in February that it
would buy dollars in a push to boost foreign reserves after last
year’s tumble of the peso led policy makers to turn to the IMF
for a $47 billion credit line. The peso has gained 5.5 percent
against the U.S. dollar this year, the second-best performer in
Latin America after Colombia’s peso.  Mexico’s central bank sold $600 million in dollar options
in September and received bids for $2.2 billion, according to
its website.  Monetary Policy  Banco de Mexico’s monetary policy will become “relatively
stronger” should the Federal Reserve further ease its policy
through quantitative easing, Carstens said.  “If we don’t do anything and the U.S. weakens its stance,
there is a relatively stronger monetary policy situation in
Mexico,” Carstens said. “We still don’t know how we will react,
because at the same time we still don’t know exactly what the
U.S. will do.”  The Fed said Sept. 21 it was willing to ease monetary
policy further, moving it closer to a second wave of
unconventional monetary easing. It said that too-low inflation,
in addition to sluggish growth, would warrant taking action.  Global economic leaders are “being more outspoken” about
China’s currency policy because the effects of those decisions
are felt more acutely than before the financial crisis, Carstens
said.  Stronger Position  “The major difference is that two or three years ago the
world was in a much stronger situation, and therefore there were
more possibilities to administer the pressures coming from
China,” Carstens said. “And therefore, in the margin, the
consequences of China are more severe to the rest of the
world,”  The central bank may start publishing minutes of its
monetary policy meetings even before the country’s Senate votes
on a bill by the opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party,
or PRI, to force it to do so, Carstens said.  “We are considering it seriously, but we haven’t made any
decisions,” he said.  As governor, Carstens has made an effort to be more
explicit in the bank’s communication with markets and the
government. To improve coordination with the government,
Carstens exercised bank rules to welcome Finance Minister
 Ernesto Cordero  at monetary policy meetings.  Value-Added Tax  The central banker said he opposes a bill proposed by the
PRI to lower the value-added tax to 15 percent from 16 percent,
saying the country needs to increase total tax revenue. As
finance minister, Carstens last year led the government’s effort
to increase taxes and strengthen public revenue in the face of
declining oil revenue.  “Given the fact that I was closely associated with the
increase to 16 percent, I would strongly discourage any such a
decision,” Carstens said about the proposed tax cut. “Even if
the production of oil remains the same or increases, it will not
increase the same as GDP. Therefore in the next decade Mexico
will have to make an important effort in raising tax income.”  Carstens, who was IMF deputy managing director from 2003 to
2006, led Mexico’s response to the global financial crisis. As
result of the recession in the U.S., which buys about 80 percent
of Mexican exports, the economy plummeted 6.5 percent last year,
the biggest drop since 1932.  Calderon appointed Carstens to become central bank governor
in January, replacing the retiring  Guillermo Ortiz . Carstens has
a doctorate in economics from the University of Chicago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Barden  in Washington at 
 barden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  