-- Finance Leaders Call for IMF Role in Averting Protectionist `Currency War'
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-10-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/finance-leaders-call-for-imf-role-in-averting-protectionist-currency-war-.html
Global governments tasked the
 International Monetary Fund  with calming the recent outbreak of
tensions over currencies amid signs they are already triggering
a protectionist backlash.  Officials including U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Egyptian Finance Minister  Youssef Boutros-Ghali 
said the lender should outline how countries can expand their
economies without damaging those of other nations. China is
accused of keeping the yuan undervalued to boost exports, while
low interest rates in the U.S. and other industrial nations are
blamed for propelling capital flows into emerging markets.  “The IMF has an important role to play to help ensure that
progress toward rebalancing strengthens,” Geithner said in a
speech at the IMF’s annual meeting yesterday in Washington. “It
is ultimately the responsibility of countries to act, but the
IMF must speak out effectively about challenges and marshal
support for action.”  Currency intervention has returned to the fore as countries
from China to Brazil and Japan try to restrain their exchange
rates to secure a trading edge. That has roiled currency markets
as has the prospect of easier monetary policy from the Federal
Reserve. The dollar fell last week to its lowest in 15 years
against the yen.  The ‘Right Place’  IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  accepted the
role of currency cop and said the fund would publish reports
highlighting linkages between economies as part of a “systemic
stability initiative.” The IMF’s steering committee also said
it should “deepen its work” on capital flows, exchange rate
movements and the accumulation of reserves.  “The need to have this kind of spillover report has been
discussed for months and now it’s part of our toolbox,”
Strauss-Kahn said.  It may already be too late to stop a shift toward
protectionism. Ukraine’s Deputy Premier  Serhiy Tigipko  said in a
Washington interview that his country may become the latest
emerging market to consider capital controls to prevent short-
term investments from fueling volatility in its currency, the
hryvnia. India may also intervene “to prevent volatility and
prevent the disruption of the macroeconomic situation,” Reserve
Bank of India Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  told reporters in
Washington.  The IMF studies will focus on the U.S., China, the U.K.,
Japan and the euro area. They will show, for instance, how U.S.
monetary policy affects capital flows to other countries.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said there is broad
support for Strauss-Kahn’s enhanced role and warned the
restraining of some currencies risks fanning protectionism.
China, the world’s fastest growing major economy, has limited
gains in the yuan to about 2 percent against the dollar since
June.  ‘Role to Play’  “There’s general agreement that the IMF has an important
role to play,” Flaherty told reporters. “There have been
discussions here with respect to developing rules of the road or
guidelines with respect to how countries deal with their
currencies.”  The IMF nevertheless has a weak record in recent years on
pushing governments to change their policies toward trade and
exchange rates. A 2006 effort to oversee the rebalancing of the
world economy petered out and China has repeatedly rejected the
fund’s analysis.  “For lack of a better alternative, the IMF has to play an
active role in trying to mitigate currency competition,” said
 Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a
former IMF official. “But the IMF power is really limited to
persuasion because it has few good instruments to promote
cooperation among member countries who are unwilling to modify
their policies.”  Currencies Vulnerable  A U.K. official questioned the new approach, telling
reporters it sounded like the IMF would now just carry out its
regular reviews of economies at the same time. By contrast,
Boutros-Ghali said “the IMF is the place to deal with these
issues.”  Developing economies that compose the Group of 24 this week
said low interest rates in the advanced world have left them
vulnerable to exchange rate appreciation and overheating. Brazil
has already stepped up intervention in the currency market in a
bid to prevent its currency, the real, from rallying. Polish
central bank governor  Marek Belka  said capital inflows have the
potential to “derail monetary policy.”  Chinese officials said they will stick to a gradual rise in
the yuan’s value to avoid social turmoil.  “We are committed to a more flexible exchange regime,”
People’s Bank of China Deputy Governor  Yi Gang  told reporters in
Washington yesterday. “A more flexible, market-based, managed
floating regime is better for China and is better for the rest
of the world. But the approach is probably a gradual one.”  “It’s very unlikely that China will come on board because
they already feel they’re unfairly singled out,” said Prasad,
who used to head of the China division at the IMF.  The currency spat came as talks aimed at increasing the
power of emerging markets within the IMF stalled. The U.S.
rejected a proposal by European governments to reduce the number
of seats they hold on the 24-strong board as insufficient,
according to two European officials, who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  China would become the IMF’s third-largest member after a
planned increase in voting rights. Strauss-Kahn said with
greater influence comes more responsibility.  “You cannot be in the center and be a free rider,” he
said. “The more you are at the center, the more you need to
take your part in stabilizing the whole system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  