-- German Government Bonds Post Gains on Bets Central Banks Prepared to Ease
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-10-09T06:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/german-government-bonds-post-gains-on-bets-central-banks-prepared-to-ease.html
German 10-year bonds posted their
third consecutive weekly gain on bets weak economic data will
prompt other major central banks to loosen monetary policy after
the Bank of Japan unexpectedly lowered interest rates.  Two-year notes also gained even after European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled on Oct. 7 there is no
plan to slow the exit from emergency stimulus. Data showed U.K.
house prices plunged the most on record last month while the
U.S. economy lost more jobs than economists forecast, adding to
speculation that the Federal Reserve and the Bank of England may
resume buying government bonds and other assets to support
growth. The Bank of Japan on Oct. 5 pledged to keep interest
rates at “virtually zero” and stepped up asset buys.  “German bunds benefit from a view that other central banks
will further ease their policy,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-
income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment
Banking in London. “The ECB might resist doing more for now,
but if the global economy weakens, the euro region will be
affected too. I think they are flexible.”  German 10-year yields were 3 basis points lower from last
week at 2.26 percent, as of 5:22 p.m. yesterday. Two-year note
yields fell 6 basis points to 0.79 percent, the biggest weekly
decline since August.  Bunds also gained as investors sought a refuge after
Moody’s Investors Service on Oct. 5 put Irish debt on review for
possible downgrade. The move came after the Irish government
pledged as much as 50 billion euros ($70 billion) to save the
country’s bank.  Job Losses  U.S. employers shed 95,000 positions after a revised 57,000
decrease in August, a Labor Department report showed yesterday,
adding to speculation that the Fed will try to support growth by
resuming its asset-purchase program. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 5,000 drop.
The unemployment rate unexpectedly held at 9.6 percent.  Treasury 10-year yields have dropped 17 basis points this
week, to 2.36 percent on speculation the Fed will renew so-
called quantitative easing. The decline narrowed the yield
spread with bunds to as little as 9.4 basis points, the least
for this year according to closing prices.  Greek and Spanish debt outperformed German bonds this week
while Irish securities lagged behind. The Greek-German 10-year
yield spread pulled in 32 basis points from last week to 754
basis points, while the Spanish spread narrowed by 10 basis
points to 399.  Irish-German spread  rose 20 basis points to 422
basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  