-- Germany Not Relying Too Much on Increasing Exports, Schaeuble, Weber Say
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-10-09T23:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/germany-not-relying-too-much-on-increasing-exports-schaeuble-weber-say.html
Germany’s economic expansion is
increasingly driven by consumer and business spending, a source
of growth that’s benefitting countries in Europe and around the
globe, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and Bundesbank
President  Axel Weber  said today, deflecting U.S. criticism of
countries that rely too much on exports.  German growth in the first half was “driven not only by
strong exports but also by increasing domestic demand, in
particular private consumption and investment in machinery and
equipment,” Schaeuble said in prepared remarks to the
International Monetary Fund’s steering committee. “Strong
growth of imports also implies that Germany contributes to the
global recovery and rebalancing of the world economy.”  Germany is close to self-sustaining economic growth, with a
9-percent pace of expansion in the second quarter on an
annualized basis, Weber, who’s also a European Central Bank
governing council member, told reporters in Washington today.
The country’s recovery from its deepest recession since World
War II, while likely to weaken, is “intact,” he said.  The comments came amid talk of a “currency war,” a term
first used by Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  last week,
between countries embracing competitive devaluations, or
“beggar-thy-neighbor”-policies, as a route to stronger
economic growth.  Boost Growth  Countries with trade surpluses -- which include China,
Japan and Germany -- need to do more to boost growth within
their economies, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said
yesterday, voicing concern that the global economic recovery
could be interrupted.  Billionaire investor  George Soros  today said the global
economy is “very far from equilibrium,” with countries being
driven more by their “national interest rather than by the
global interest.” The global recovery “remains fragile and
uneven,” the IMFC said today.  Weber said the U.S. administration is differentiating
between the sources of export strength in Germany and in China
and said the countries shouldn’t be “lumped together” and both
simply labeled as surplus countries.  “It’s clear that in the case of China the favorable
exchange rate and the exchange rate policy support and promote
part of China’s competitiveness while in Germany these are
business decisions that don’t rely on interventions in currency
markets or other markets,” Weber said. “I think this
difference is quite clear to the Americans.”  Good Climate  German Deputy Finance Minister  Joerg Asmussen , standing in
for hospitalized minister Schaeuble, said in Washington “the
climate is good” between the U.S. and Germany, irrespective of
reported U.S. criticism of Germany.  “The U.S. treasury secretary tends to use sharp arguments
in a conversation and is ready to accept the same in return,”
Asmussen said alongside Weber at the German press briefing in
Washington. “That’s ok.”  German consumer spending at the height of the economic
crisis -- buoyed by a stable  labor market  thanks to the
government’s economic growth packages -- helped support European
and global economies, said Weber.  “The resilience of German consumption during the crisis
has allowed Germany to play a stabilizing role,” Weber said.
“German imports contributed to demand in the rest of Europe, as
well as globally, just when demand from the U.S. and other
countries that were hit harder by the crisis slumped.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  at 
 rbuergin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 