-- British Aid Worker Killed by Afghan Captors During Rescue Bid, Hague Says
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2010-10-09T14:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/kidnapped-british-aid-worker-killed-by-afghan-captors-during-rescue-effort.html
British aid worker Linda Norgrove was
killed by her captors in Afghanistan during a rescue attempt by
coalition forces, the U.K. government said today.  Norgrove, 36, who was employed by a U.S.-based
organization, was kidnapped last month with three local staff
when their vehicle was ambushed in Kunar province.  “It is with deep sadness that I must confirm that Linda
Norgrove, the British aid worker who had been held hostage in
eastern Afghanistan since Sept. 26, was killed at the hands of
her captors in the course of a rescue attempt last night,”
Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said in an e-mailed statement.  “Working with our allies we received information about
where Linda was being held and we decided that, given the danger
she was facing, her best chance of safe release was to act on
that information,” Hague said. “Given who held her, and the
danger she was in, we judged that Linda’s best chance lay in
attempting to rescue her.”  Norgrove was killed during a military operation near the
village of Dineshgal, in Kunar’s Norgal district, Maqsood
Padshah, the police chief of Sawkai district, said earlier by
telephone.  The rescue operation was conducted by members of NATO’s
 International Security Assistance Force , the Foreign Office in
London said.  Petraeus Tribute  “The captors killed the British woman as the ISAF was
trying to rescue her,” Jan Mohammed Khan, a tribal elder from
Norgal district of Kunar province, said by telephone.  Afghan war commander U.S. General  David Petraeus  offered
his condolences to the victim’s family, friends and colleagues.  “Afghan and coalition security forces did everything in
their power to rescue Linda,” Petraeus said in an e-mailed
statement. “Linda was a courageous person with a passion to
improve the lives of Afghan people, and sadly she lost her life
in their service.”  Norgrove, who was from the Isle of Lewis, Scotland, worked
for  Development Alternatives Inc. , a contractor for the U.S.
Agency for International Development. It said it was
“devastated” by her death.  “This is devastating news,” DAI Chief Executive Officer
James Boomgard said in a  statement  on the organization’s
website. “We are saddened beyond words by the death of a
wonderful woman whose sole purpose in Afghanistan was to do good
-- to help the Afghan people achieve a measure of prosperity and
stability in their everyday lives as they set about rebuilding
their country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul, Afghanistan at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  