-- Kyrgyzstan Tests Move to Parliamentary Democracy in Post-Violence Election
-- B y   J o a n n a   L i l l i s
-- 2010-10-10T16:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/kyrgyzstan-tests-move-to-parliamentary-democracy-in-post-violence-election.html
Kyrgyzstan’s citizens cast votes in
the first peaceful elections since the nation, wracked by
violence after the president was ousted in April, adopted a
constitution designed to create Central Asia’s only
parliamentary democracy.  The elections were being watched closely by the U.S. and
Russia, both of which have airbases in Kyrgyzstan, an
impoverished nation of 5.5 million people. The U.S. uses the
Manas base outside the capital, Bishkek, to support operations
in Afghanistan. The electoral commission said 56.5 percent of
citizens voted.  “It is a historic day,” said Interim President Rosa
Otunbayeva after polls closed, according to Deutsche Presse
Agentur.  Seven parties may win seats in parliament, with Ata-Meken,
led by  Omurbek Tekebayev , and the Social Democratic Party of
Kyrgyzstan, led by  Almazbek Atambayev , likely to top the vote,
according to a poll by Perspectiva Analytical Center. Both men
were part of the provisional government that assumed power after
the overthrow of President  Kurmanbek Bakiyev .  “Parliamentary elections all used to be predictable; it
could be said definitely that the ruling group would form the
parliament,” said Mars Sariyev, a political analyst in Bishkek,
the nation’s capital. “For the first time a situation has
emerged in which it is impossible to predict.”  The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe’s
election monitors warned ahead of the poll that that the
security situation remained “tense,” especially in the south,
where June clashes between the majority Kyrgyz and minority
Uzbek communities left more than 400 dead.  ‘Let it Be Fair’  AFP reported that the Ar-Namys party of former Prime
Minister Felix Kulov, a pro-Moscow candidate, was leading with
22.1 percent, citing an exit poll published by the centrasia.ru
news site. The poll was based on interviews with 1,306 voters.
The Social Democratic Party of Kyrgyzstan was second with 20.7
percent, the poll showed, according to AFP.  Alesa Chokmurova, a 73-year-old retired teacher, said she
voted for the Ata-Jurt, as polling continued on a bright sunny
afternoon.  “They’re for the people,” she said, adding that she fears
unrest if “an injustice” is perceived by some. “Just let it
be fair and let a person who will improve the country, boost
industry and deal with housing and social issues come to
power.”  President  Roza Otunbayeva  said yesterday that security
forces would respond to any efforts to create unrest.  “We have overcome the crisis and now, especially after the
election, with every passing day we will move toward stability,
the rise of the economy and the improvement of people’s lives,”
Otunbayeva said in a televised address, the Associated Press
reported.  ‘Without War’  The landlocked country depends on remittances from workers
in Russia for about 40 percent of national income, supplemented
by rent the U.S. and Russia pay for their bases. Kyrgyzstan’s
gross domestic product, measured by purchasing power parity, was
$2,200 per person last year, ranking it 187th in the world.  As campaigning drew to a close, people on the streets of
Bishkek said they hoped the vote would restore calm.  “The main thing is that everything should be alright in
the country, without war and with stability,” said 31-year-old
Aida Oroskaziyeva.  The U.S. government provided $5 million to help ensure free
and fair elections.  “We see these” elections “as a very significant
opportunity to establish the very first parliamentary democracy
in Central Asia,”  Robert O. Blake Jr ., assistant secretary of
state for South and Central Asian affairs, told reporters Sept.
22 in New York. “This will be just a very, very high priority
for all of us.”  Competing Interests  Under the constitution approved by voters in June, no party
can hold more than 65 of the 120 seats in parliament, and the
winning party will lead talks to form a coalition government.
Twenty-nine parties are on today’s ballot.  Ata-Meken was supported by 14.6 percent of the 1,500 people
surveyed by Perspectiva from Sept. 14-28, followed by the Social
Democratic Party with 10.5 percent and Ata Jurt at 9.9 percent,
the Washington-based Carnegie Center for International Peace
said on its website. The Respublika, Akshumkar, Ar-Namys and
Butu Kyrgyzstan parties may also cross the 5 percent threshold
needed to win seats. More than 23 percent of those surveyed were
undecided, and no margin of error was given for the poll.  The winning party will face the challenge of spearheading
talks to reconcile competing interests and form a stable
government.  “It is difficult for me to perceive how the multiple
interests of the clan groups and the corporate groups will be
reconciled,” Sariyev said. “The pretensions of the elites will
have to be reckoned with, and they will have to find a
consensus. I am not sure the government will last long.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joanna Lillis  in Bishkek, through the London newsroom at +44-
   joannalillis123@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  