-- North Korea Courts China With Dancing Pandas in Pyongyang Gala
-- B y   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e
-- 2010-10-09T16:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/north-korea-courts-china-with-dancing-pandas-in-pyongyang-gala.html
North Korea’s government used one of
its most visible propaganda tools -- mass performances in a
Pyongyang stadium -- to demonstrate its closeness to China as
the Stalinist state embarks on a leadership change.  With top leader  Kim Jong Il  looking on, as many as 50,000
North Korean dancers, acrobats, soldiers and children taking
part in the annual Arirang festival last night donned panda
costumes and clashed cymbals.  The performers held up placards forming slogans in Chinese
characters such as “without the Communist Party there would be
no new China.” The phrase was also sung, in Chinese, to the
tens of thousands of people gathered at Pyongyang’s May Day
stadium.  The tribute to China illustrates Kim’s increasing
dependence on North Korea’s northern neighbor and biggest
trading partner to support his regime and the transition to
power of his son,  Kim Jong Un . North Korea’s isolation from the
world community increased this year with the sinking in March of
a South Korean warship, which an international panel said was
caused by a North Korean torpedo.  As the two-hour performance drew to a close, the
“international friendship” act focused on only one country,
China. Placards proclaimed “North Korea-China friendship” in
Chinese characters. Another Chinese slogan, formed by thousands
of children simultaneously raising colored placards, told of the
bond between North Korea founder Kim Il Sung and the founding
Communist rulers of China.  Made in China  Kim Jong Il has made an unprecedented two trips to China
this year, both times meeting with President  Hu Jintao . China’s
influence in the country is evident in Pyongyang, where most
cars are of Chinese make, including sedans made by BYD Co., a
company 10 percent owned by billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  Even a bathroom sink at the Pyongyang
airport is Chinese-made.  China and North Korea formed a bond during the 1950-53
Korean War, when Chinese soldiers crossed the Yalu River to help
push back advancing U.S. troops. Kim Il Sung attended middle
school in China’s Jilin province and his son, Kim Jong Il,
visited the school in August during his latest trip to China.
Today is the 65th anniversary of the Korean Worker’s Party, and
both Kim Jong Il and Kim Jong Un -- now a four-star general and
a vice chairman of the Central Military Commission -- are
scheduled to attend a military parade in central Pyongyang.  North Korea looks much as China did before it embarked on
its opening to global trade and economic restructuring three
decades ago. Concrete billboards depicting heroic and pastoral
scenes with the late Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il dot the
roadsides.  At May Day stadium, among tens of thousands of spectators
watching the Arirang performance -- depicting Japan’s occupation
of North Korea starting in 1905, the rise of Kim Il Sung and the
birth of Kim Jong Il -- not a single flashbulb could be seen.  All the men were either in military uniform or wearing dark
suits. Many of the soldiers present exhibited the stunted growth
consistent with the country’s endemic food shortages. A famine
during the 1990s killed hundreds of thousands of people.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Forsythe  in
Pyongyang at  mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  