-- Obama's a `Natural' Chief Executive Officer, Not a Socialist, Rattner Says
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2010-10-09T18:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/obama-s-a-natural-chief-executive-officer-not-a-socialist-rattner-says.html
President  Barack Obama  is a ‘natural’
chief executive officer and isn’t a socialist, the president’s
former auto task force head  Steven Rattner  said in an interview
with CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS.”  “I thought he was a natural and I have been around a lot
of CEOs over the years,” Rattner said during an interview taped
Oct. 7 and scheduled for broadcast tomorrow. “I came away with
a lot of respect for his CEO qualities.”  Rattner, 58, the former head of the U.S. government’s
Automotive Task Force and co-founder of New York-based private-
equity firm Quadrangle Group LLC, was asked about polls showing
that some voters, both Republican and Democrat, think Obama is a
socialist.  “He’s not a socialist, that’s for sure,” Rattner said,
adding, “I would probably concede that he is maybe less
comfortable with business” than former Democratic President
 Bill Clinton , Rattner said. Clinton had “some appreciation or
fondness for business that was maybe a little bit unusual, but
it was there,” he said.  Rattner also said that Obama has to deal with the political
reality that has followed the 2008 financial crisis. “One of
the things I say often to my Wall Street friends who are very
upset with the president to a person, is you’ve got to deal with
the climate that’s out there, and this is a country that is
angry,” Rattner said.  Faced with midterm elections Nov. 2, the Democratic
president and Democratic-controlled Congress are being buffeted
by voter complaints about tax dollars having gone to firms
paying million-dollar bonuses, concern over budget deficits and
voter objections that it was unfair for the government to rescue
banks that caused the crisis, which has pushed the jobless rate
to almost 10 percent.  Wall Street Bubble  “The president does believe that Wall Street was a
significant part of the problem, more of a problem than Wall
Street believes it was,” Rattner said. “I think Wall Street is
a little bit in its own little bubble and doesn’t really get
what’s going on out in the country.”  Rattner recalled a meeting about a year and a half ago at
which Obama told a group of bankers “I’m the only thing
standing between you and the pitchforks.”  Rattner directed Obama’s auto task force from February 2009
until July last year, after  General Motors Co.  emerged from a
bankruptcy backed by $50 billion in government aid. He has since
written a memoir of the process called “Overhaul: An Insider’s
Account of the Obama Administration’s Emergency Rescue of the
Auto Industry.”  Tough Decision  The administrations of Obama and that of his predecessor,
Republican  George W. Bush , committed a total of $85 billion to
rescue the U.S. automakers, aid suppliers and prop up the
financing arms of GM and Chrysler. About $67 billion in loans
and equity investments are still outstanding, according to
administration figures. GM is 61 percent owned by the U.S.
Treasury.  The decision to save Chrysler was the most difficult
because it was the number three company, had no global business
and closing it down would help General Motors and Ford sell more
cars, Rattner said on CNN.  “I think in any normal economic time, many of us would
have voted to let it go,” Rattner said. “But we were not in a
normal economic time,” he said. “The economy was in freefall.
The stock market was in freefall. We didn’t know if the
financial markets were going to recover or not.”  The decision to save Chrysler was made primarily to save
300,000 jobs; unemployment at Chrysler would have added two
tenths of a percentage point to the unemployment rate, he said.  “That was a social experiment that we didn’t really want
to take, if we thought Chrysler could be saved,” Rattner said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carol Wolf  in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey in Washington at 
 Ahughey@bloomberg.net  