-- Obama Says U.S. Must Bolster Education, Prevent Republican School Cutbacks
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-10-09T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/obama-says-u-s-must-bolster-education-prevent-republican-school-cutbacks.html
President  Barack Obama  called for the
U.S. to focus on improving education even as it works to create
jobs and boost the economy, and said proposals by Republicans
would cut education funding.  “Even as we focus on speeding up our economic recovery, we
also know that when it comes to jobs, opportunity, and
prosperity in the 21st century, nothing is more important than
the quality of your education,” the president said in his
weekly address on the radio and the Internet.  If Republicans controlled Congress, the U.S. would have a
harder time offering children the best education because
“they’d have us cut education by 20 percent,” Obama said.  The president said “tough” choices need to be made to
reduce the federal  budget deficit , “but what I’m not prepared
to do is shortchange our children’s education.”  The president at a White House summit on community colleges
Oct. 5 called for federal funding to support the two-year,
nonprofit institutions in helping to put Americans back to work
and to boost the economy.  Obama has criticized Republicans for spending priorities in
their election-year pledge to voters, saying they plan to cut
money for education to trim $100 billion from the $477 billion
lawmakers have set for discretionary spending next year.  While Republican leaders have said they will trim
discretionary spending, they haven’t identified where they will
make significant cuts.  Republican Address  In the Republican address, Senator  John Barrasso  of Wyoming
criticized Democrats and Obama for failing to lower the
unemployment rate through the $814 billion economic stimulus
program.  The U.S. lost more jobs than forecast last month as local
governments fired teachers and other workers in response to
declining tax revenue.  Payrolls fell by 95,000 workers after a revised 57,000
decrease in August, Labor Department figures in Washington
showed yesterday. Private employers added 64,000 jobs, less than
forecast.  “The White House promised that massive federal spending
would keep the  unemployment rate  below 8 percent,” Barrasso
said. “Instead what taxpayers got was $800 billion in new  debt 
and nearly 10 percent unemployment.” The September unemployment
rate was 9.6 percent.  Barrasso said the latest jobs report shows “that far too
many Americans are still looking for work.”  He said the Democrats’ health-care law is causing employers
to say they may be forced to stop offering insurance because of
costs associated with new government rules and regulations.  “The president has failed to keep his promises on jobs, on
spending and on health care,” Barrasso said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  