-- Officials in 40 States May Join in Foreclosure Probe
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2010-10-09T15:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/officials-in-40-states-said-to-consider-joint-foreclosure-probe.html
  Attorneys general  in about 40 states
may announce by next week a joint investigation into potentially
faulty foreclosures at the largest banks and mortgage firms,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  State attorneys general led by Iowa’s Tom Miller are in
talks that may lead to the announcement of a coordinated probe
as soon as Oct. 12, said the person, who asked not to be named
because an agreement wasn’t completed. The number of states may
change because several are deciding whether to join, the person
said. New Mexico Attorney General Gary King said yesterday in a
statement that his office will join a multi-state effort.  Lawyers representing the banks expect a widening
investigation, according to Patrick McManemin, a partner at  Patton Boggs LLP , a Washington-based law firm that represents
banks, loan servicers and financial institutions.  Bank of
America Corp ., the biggest U.S. lender, yesterday extended a
freeze on foreclosures to all 50 states.  “We are aware of or involved in a large number of
investigations that lead us to believe there are in the
neighborhood of 40 state attorneys general who have initiated
investigations or expressed an interest,” McManemin said in a
telephone interview.    Justice Department   Officials in at least seven states have already announced
probes into claims that employees at home lenders and loan
servicers signed court documents without ensuring the
information was accurate. On Oct. 7, Miller said in a statement
that he was working with state officials, banking regulators and
the U.S. Justice Department to launch a coordinated review.
Attorneys general in Ohio and  Connecticut  have said some of the
practices may amount to fraud.  The Senate Banking Committee plans to hold a hearing Nov.
16 to investigate mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices,
according to its website.  “American families should not have to worry about losing
their homes to sloppy bureaucratic mismanagement or fraud,”
the panel’s chairman, Connecticut Democrat Christopher Dodd,
said in a statement. “Regulators at the federal, state and
local levels have a responsibility to uphold the law and
protect consumers from unfair foreclosure.”  Frozen Foreclosures  Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Ally Financial
Inc. already froze foreclosures in 23 states where courts
supervise home seizures, amid allegations that employees used
unverified or false data to speed the process. Litton Loan
Servicing LP, a mortgage-servicing business owned by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc ., said yesterday it’s halting some foreclosures
to review how they’re handled.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Democrat from Nevada,
called on other banks and mortgage firms to follow Bank of
America’s lead and “review their practices to ensure that they
are not unfairly targeting homeowners in Nevada and across the
nation,” according to a statement yesterday.  “There are reasons for these procedures and those are to
make sure the banks own the homes they are foreclosing on,”
Robert Lawless, a professor at the University of Illinois
College of Law in Champaign, said in a telephone interview. “At
the same time I don’t think it is going to be a tidal wave of
relief for homeowners. My bet is that there will be a delay.”  Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo & Co., and  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for New York-based  Citigroup Inc ., said the companies were still processing
foreclosures.  Thomas Kelly , a spokesman for New York-based
JPMorgan, and  Gina Proia , spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally,
declined to comment.  Homes Taken  Lenders took possession of a record 95,364 homes in August
and issued foreclosure filings to 338,836 homeowners, or one of
every 381 U.S. households, according to  RealtyTrac Inc. , an
Irvine, California-based data vendor.  “If you have a national moratorium on foreclosures, that’s
a problem,”  Paul Miller , an analyst for FBR Capital Markets
Corp. in Arlington,  Virginia , said in a phone interview. “The
longer you drag out foreclosures the longer it takes to get
through” the housing slump, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  