-- Pakistan Opens Border for NATO, U.S. Supplies After Air Strike Apologies
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2010-10-09T13:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/pakistan-opens-border-for-nato-u-s-supplies-after-air-strike-apologies.html
Pakistan said it will open a key
conduit to move supplies to North Atlantic Treaty Organization
and U.S. troops in Afghanistan.  The Torkhum crossing will open “with immediate effect”
after a security assessment, Pakistan’s foreign office said in
an e-mailed statement.  The South Asian nation had blocked the passage of supplies
for NATO troops fighting in Afghanistan on Sept. 30 after an air
strike killed three of its soldiers. The incident underscored
tensions between the U.S. and Pakistani armed forces as the
American military escalated the number of missile strikes
against Taliban and al-Qaeda militants in northwest Pakistan’s
tribal region this month.  Since Pakistan closed the border crossing, Taliban
guerrillas have claimed responsibility for four assaults that
have left tankers parked along the route ablaze.  Earlier today, gunmen destroyed at least 29 oil tankers in
southwest Pakistan in the latest attack by Islamist militants on
a NATO supply route into Afghanistan, Agence France-Presse said,
citing Abdul Mateen, a senior administration official in Mitri.  Most of the 580 daily truckloads of supplies and fuel for
the 142,000  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  troops fighting
the Afghan Taliban cross at Torkham.  U.S. Regret  The Khyber Pass route was reopened after Admiral  Michael Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, expressed regret
for the helicopter attack. Mullen’s letter this week to the
Pakistani Army chief of staff, General Ashfaq  Parvez Kayani ,
followed apologies from U.S. Ambassador  Ann Patterson  and the
Afghanistan war commander, Army General David Petraeus.  The clash threatened to heighten strains in the
relationship with Pakistan, the most important U.S. ally in the
Afghan war, as a White House report said Pakistan continues to
dodge direct confrontation with insurgents threatening U.S.
troops across the border. Lawmakers are demanding the
administration push Pakistan to do more in the war against
militants who may be plotting attacks in Europe and the U.S.  Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman  Carl Levin  said
this week he is more concerned that Pakistan isn’t pursuing
militants within its borders more aggressively than with the
flap over the border crossing.  The White House report to Congress found that Pakistan’s
military during the first eight months of 2010 continued to
avoid direct conflict with Afghan Taliban fighters inside
Pakistan or al-Qaeda forces in Northern Waziristan.  The Obama administration, in addition to authorizing 30,000
more troops for Afghanistan in December, is seeking more
Pakistani military operations to prevent the Taliban and al-
Qaeda from crossing into eastern Afghanistan. The White House
scheduled a Dec. 1 review to determine whether U.S. strategy is
working.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net 
Farhan Sharif in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  