-- Phillies, Braves Rally to Win in National League Division Playoff Series
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-10-09T07:42:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/phillies-beat-reds-7-4-to-take-two-game-lead-in-national-league-playoffs.html
The Philadelphia Phillies rebounded
from a four-run deficit to beat the Cincinnati Reds 7-4 and take
a two-game lead in their National League Division Series.  The Atlanta Braves also rallied, scoring three runs in 
the eighth inning and getting a solo home run from  Rick Ankiel  
in the 11th, to defeat the San Francisco Giants 5-4 last night 
and avoid a two-game deficit in their NL playoff series.  Ankiel’s home run into San Francisco Bay allowed the Braves
to go home tied 1-1 in the best-of-five series. Ankiel, 31,
began his Major League Baseball career as a pitcher before
converting to an outfielder.  “I can’t explain how I feel right now,” Ankiel said in a
television interview after the first extra-inning game this
postseason. “I’d say this is the pinnacle of everything I’ve
done.”  The Phillies took advantage of four Cincinnati errors,
scoring five unearned runs as they rallied from a 4-0 deficit.  “Tonight they made a lot of mistakes and we finally
started cashing in on some of them,” Phillies manager  Charlie Manuel  said in a news conference. “They just started making
some mistakes and it caught up with them.”  In the American League playoffs, the road teams -- the New
York Yankees and Texas Rangers -- won the opening two games and
headed home with a chance to finish off their series.  The Yankees will try to complete a sweep against the
Minnesota Twins tonight in New York, while the Rangers seek to
do the same at home against the Tampa Bay Rays. The Phillies-
Reds and Giants-Braves series resume tomorrow in Cincinnati and
Atlanta.  Phillies’ Rally  The Phillies scored two runs in the fifth inning, one in
the sixth, three in the seventh and one in the eighth at
Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia.  Chase Utley  drove in two
runs for the Phillies after committing two throwing errors.  Brandon Phillips  and  Jay Bruce  hit solo home runs for
Cincinnati. Phillips opened the game with a home run for the
Reds, who were no-hit in the first game of the series by  Roy Halladay . Cincinnati returned home facing elimination from its
first postseason series since 1995.  “You either tighten it up and fight even harder, or you
just quit and go home, and this team’s not that kind of team,”
Reds manager  Dusty Baker  said in a news conference. “We’ll get
it back together at home.”  Braves-Giants Scoring  Pat Burrell  hit a three-run homer in the first for the
Giants and starting pitcher  Matt Cain  added a run-scoring single
in the second as San Francisco took a 4-0 lead.  Brian McCann  had
a run-scoring single in the sixth for Atlanta, which tied the
game with three runs in the eighth on an error and a two-run
double by  Alex Gonzalez .  The Giants loaded the bases with one out in the 10th inning,
only to have  Buster Posey  ground into a double play. Ankiel hit
the decisive homer with one out in the next inning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  