-- QR National Seeks $5 Billion in Australia's Biggest IPO in Decade
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-10-11T07:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/qr-national-says-share-sale-in-australia-may-raise-at-least-4-15-billion.html
Queensland plans to raise between
A$3.66 billion ($3.6 billion) and A$5.05 billion selling shares
of coal-train operator  QR National Ltd.  in Australia’s largest
initial public offering in more than a decade.  The state will sell between 1.46 billion and 1.68 billion
shares, or as much as 69 percent of QR National, for A$2.50 to
A$3 each, according to yesterday’s  offer document . Individual
investors will pay no more than A$2.80 a share.  Rising demand for commodities in China and India may help
Queensland lure investors as the state sells assets to replace
an estimated  A$14 billion  of revenue lost during the global
recession. Brisbane-based QR National expects earnings to surge
75 percent in the next two years as coal shipments rise and
mining companies expand projects in Western Australia.  “It has some leverage to the commodity cycle, which has
appeal,” said  Grant Craighead , managing director and co-founder
of Sydney-based research company Stock Resource. “The growth
should be quite transparent given the physical restraints that a
rail business has, and that is what investors will look for.”  Queensland government may sell additional shares equal to a
6 percent stake to institutional investors if there’s enough
demand, it said. The state plans to retain between 25 percent
and 40 percent of QR National until at least 2012, Treasurer
 Andrew Fraser  said yesterday.  The rail company, based in Australia’s largest coal-mining
region, will have a market value of as much as A$7.32 billion,
which would rank it as the 30th-biggest company on Australia’s
benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index  at today’s prices. The stock will
begin preliminary trading on Dec. 1 and trade normally on the
exchange in Sydney from Dec. 7, according to the  prospectus .  IPO ‘Trigger’  Completion of the QR National IPO would make it Australia’s
largest since 1997, when the federal government raised more than
A$14 billion selling shares of phone company Telstra Corp. It
may also revive domestic IPOs after builder Valemus Ltd.
scrapped a planned A$1.39 billion offer in July.  “A successful float could be a trigger for a few more,”
said  Sean Fenton , who helps manage about $1 billion at Tribeca
Investment Partners in Sydney. “There’s certainly a pipeline
built up.”  If institutional investors buy all the stock initially on
offer at the top price, Queensland would raise A$5.05 billion.
Still, it’s not yet clear how many shares will go to
individuals. As well as benefitting from a ceiling on the asking
price, they’ll also pay 10 cents a share less than institutional
investors, according to the prospectus.  ‘Social Service’  QR National expects earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization to increase 42 percent to A$894
million in the 12 months ending June 2011, the company said.
Earnings may rise 23 percent the next year, the document showed.  “There are elements of this business that could be more
efficient,” said  Simon Cox , head of equity capital markets
syndication at UBS AG, one of the banks managing the sale. “It
was probably run as a social service rather than a commercial
enterprise. There’s a high level of earnings certainty given the
high percentage of contracted volumes.”  Based on the price range for the stock sale, QR National
stock would trade at 21-25 times estimated earnings per share
for the year ending June 2011, and 17-20 times the following
year’s earnings, according to the sale document.  Rival Multiples  That would make QR National stock more expensive than
shares of  Asciano Group , Australia’s biggest listed port and
rail operator. Asciano trades at 19 times estimated earnings for
the 12 months ending June 2011, and 16 times estimated earnings
for the following year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
The company has a market value of A$5 billion.  QR National’s projected dividend yield is as high as 2.5
percent for the 12 months ending June 2011 and no more than 3.3
percent the following year. That’s less than the  average 4
percent yield  among members of Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200
index, according to Bloomberg data.  As well as UBS, Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs &
Partners Australia Pty, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
unit and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are managing the QR
National offering. The banks will each receive a fee of A$3
million and share equally 0.8 percent of the proceeds from the
shares sold to institutional investors, the prospectus showed.  BHP Billiton Ltd. and a group of mining companies attempted
to buy the Queensland coal-freight network to eliminate the risk
of an independent operator raising fees. They scrapped the
proposed A$5.1 billion bid last month after failing to meet
their own and the government’s requirements for the offer.  Queensland, the third-most-populous Australian state, is
offering local applications priority to help lure investors. The
state is also selling plantations, roads, a port and a coal
terminal.  Loan Facility  QR National, which employs about 9,000 people, last week
announced a A$3 billion loan facility backed by 11 banks. The
company operates 700 locomotives, 16,000 wagons and 2,300
kilometers (1,430 miles) of track spread across Australia. It
transported more than 198 million metric tons of coal in the
2009-2010 financial year, according to its  website .  Global demand for coking coal, used in steelmaking, may
rise 14 percent to 257 million tons in 2010, and 6 percent next
year, driven by China and India, UBS AG said July 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Fenner  at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  