-- Russia, Hungary Discussed Energy Issues, Malev, Development Ministry Says
-- B y   B a l a z s   P e n z
-- 2010-10-09T10:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/russia-hungary-discussed-energy-issues-malev-development-ministry-says.html
Russian First Deputy Prime Minister
 Viktor Zubkov  met Hungarian officials yesterday to discuss
energy-industry cooperation and airline Malev Zrt., the Ministry
of National Development in Budapest said.  Zubkov met Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  and
National Development Minister  Tamas Fellegi  during the visit,
according to today’s e-mailed statement. The two countries will
hold expert-level talks about the two issues in the “near
future” and Orban will visit Russia this year, it said.  Hungary’s government, Russia,  Mol Nyrt.  and OAO
Surgutneftegaz must together discuss the Russian company’s
ownership in the Hungarian refiner, Fellegi said last month.  Fellegi on Sept. 21 said that Hungary, which had discussed
the matter with the Russian government and not directly with
Surgutneftegaz, expected to hold a second round of talks
“soon” after.  Siberia-based Surgut purchased a 21.2 percent stake in  Mol 
from Austria’s OMV AG for 1.4 billion euros ($1.8 billion) in
March 2009, which Mol termed a hostile takeover attempt. The
Russian company has been barred from exercising its ownership
rights in Mol as its holding hasn’t yet been entered into Mol’s
books.  Hungary is also seeking to “abolish its one-sided energy
dependence” and supports both the European Union’s Nabucco and
Russia’s South Stream natural gas pipeline projects, Fellegi
said last week.  Hungary took a 95 percent stake in unprofitable  Malev  
after the company’s latest privatization attempt failed. The
government agreed to provide 25.2 billion forint ($128 million)
to Malev, converting debt to stock and paying the balance in
cash.  The government replaced Russian state-owned development
bank Vnesheconombank as controlling shareholder. The deal
included Vnesheconombank agreeing to pay out 32 million euros in
bank guarantees to Hungary and convert Malev’s existing loans
into ones carrying lower interest rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Balazs Penz  in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net . 