-- Saudi Shares Decline on Concern About Bank Earnings, Led by Rajhi, Fransi
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2010-10-09T14:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/saudi-shares-decline-on-concern-about-bank-earnings-led-by-rajhi-fransi.html
Saudi Arabian shares declined on
uncertainty about financial results for Saudi banks during the
third quarter in the Arab world’s biggest economy.  The  Tadawul All Share Index   gauge  shed 0.4 percent to
6,392.02, while the  Tadawul All Share Bank Index  fell 1 percent
in Riyadh.  Al-Rajhi Bank , the kingdom’s largest lender by market
value, and Banque Saudi Fransi were  among nine  of 11 Saudi banks
that declined in trading today.  “To a certain extent there is some concern about bank
earnings,”  Murad Ansari , Head of Research at EFG Hermes SA,
said by phone from Riyadh. “We aren’t seeing any key changes in
indicators for the banks in the third quarter of 2010. There was
a run up in stock prices through September, and we are seeing a
slight correction before the results.”  Saudi banks’ earnings have been hurt since the onset of the
global credit crisis as provisions for bad loans rose and
lending slowed after the Saad and Algosaibi business groups
defaulted on at least $15.7 billion of loans. Saudi bank credit
to industry rose 3.3 percent in August from a year ago.  Low interest rates have also exerted pressure on Saudi
banks’ profitability through reduced margins and lower business
growth, Moody’s Investors Service said on Sept. 27. Samba
Financial Group, the second-largest by market value, and Riyad
Bank posted declines in net income during the second quarter.  Al-Rajhi declined to the lowest level since Aug. 30,
falling 1.3 percent to 76.5 riyals, while Banque Saudi Fransi,
the Saudi lender part-owned by Credit Agricole SA, shed 1.6
percent to 48 riyals. The Saudi British Bank, a lender 40
percent owned by HSBC Holdings Plc, dropped 2.4 percent to 45.4
riyals, the steepest decline since July 3.  Saudi Arabia’s is the only Gulf Arab benchmark tracked by
Bloomberg that trades on a Saturday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 