-- Soros Says U.S. Economy Needs More Fiscal Stimulus, Not Deficit Reduction
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-10-09T21:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/soros-says-u-s-economy-needs-more-fiscal-stimulus-not-deficit-reduction.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
said the U.S. economy should pursue more fiscal stimulus instead
of joining international efforts to reduce budget deficits.  Soros said spending cuts are the “wrong consensus” in the
current economic environment. He said the global economy is
still not at equilibrium, even though financial markets are
functioning again, and U.S. fiscal restraint is limiting the
recovery.  “It threatens to push the global economy into a much
longer-lasting stagnation than would be necessary,” Soros,
chairman of Soros Fund Management LLC, said in a forum at the
 International Monetary Fund ’s annual meetings. The U.S. has been
“driven to quantitative easing because the political debate has
been won basically by the Republicans, who argue for balancing
the budget and no more stimulus.”  The U.S. is using this weekend’s meetings to call for the
IMF to take a more active role in promoting global rebalancing
and in rebuking countries that undervalue their currencies. The
initiative is aimed at China, which has limited the yuan’s rise
to about 2 percent since agreeing in June to allow appreciation.  Soros said China deserves a stronger voice at the IMF as
the fund deliberates how to give emerging-market nations a
bigger share of board seats and voting rights.  “China is a part of the IMF, but it’s more or less a
passive part, because it doesn’t have enough voice and is not
sufficiently drawn into the deliberations,” Soros said. “A lot
depends on how this is going to work out.”  Corruption, Governance  Soros said China ought to join international efforts to
reduce corruption and improve governance in poor countries,
especially those with natural resources that could be
contributing to prosperity. He said China’s decision to stay out
of many international initiatives could be destabilizing if
widely adopted.  “China in particular feels much more comfortable with
bilateral relations” and “what I call state capitalism as
opposed to international capitalism,” Soros said. “As long as
China is the only one following that course, it actually derives
very substantial benefits, advantages from that. But if
everybody does it, it’s the end of the multilateral system.”  On the subject of international bank regulation, Soros said
there is not yet a solution to the problems caused by financial
institutions that are “too big to fail.” These firms are
currently backed by an “implicit guarantee” from regulators,
who now bear increased responsibility to make sure that
protection won’t be used, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  