-- Australian Dollar Gains Pose `Challenges' for Economic Growth, Swan Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-10-10T03:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/swan-says-rising-australian-dollar-poses-challenges-for-economic-growth.html
Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said
the rise in the nation’s currency to its highest level since the
end of exchange controls in 1983 creates “challenges” to
managing the economy.  The hardest hit areas are likely to be manufacturing,
agriculture and in-bound tourism, Swan told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. television today from Washington where he is
attending meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the
World Bank.  The Australian currency has posted eight straight weeks of
gains, reaching 99.18 U.S. cents on Oct. 7, as the domestic
economy skirted the global recession and investors bet the
Reserve Bank will raise interest rates. The Aussie, as it is
known, may rise above parity with the dollar this year, Westpac
Banking Corp. said Oct. 8.  “It reflects strong investment in the Australian economy
and, therefore strong growth, but of course that does pose
challenges for certain sectors of the economy,” Swan said today.
“Many people who are buying imported goods would be pleased
that they’re cheaper but many others, particularly in
manufacturing and also in tourism, would certainly feel the
effects.”  Economic growth that the IMF forecasts will reach 3.5
percent next year is fuelling the Australian dollar and
prompting traders to boost bets for a rate increase next month
after officials refrained from acting last week.  The mining industry is driving the jobs boom as Rio Tinto
Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd.  increase coal shipments to China.  Unemployment Rate  Australian  employers  added 49,500 workers and the
unemployment rate held at 5.1 percent in September, the
government said last week. During the same period, the U.S.
economy lost 95,000 workers and its jobless rate was 9.6 percent.  “In the middle of 2007, the unemployment rate in Australia
and the unemployment rate in the United States was the same, it
had a four in front of it,” Swan said. “They have shed
something like 6 million jobs.”  The Treasurer said the global economic outlook remains
fragile, with expansion in emerging nations while many developed
countries are reporting “anemic” economic data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  