-- Swiss Can't Wait for Global Accord on Banking Rules, Jordan Tells Sonntag
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2010-10-09T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/swiss-can-t-wait-for-global-bank-deal-jordan-tells-sonntag.html
Swiss central bank Vice Chairman
 Thomas Jordan  said Switzerland should introduce its own rules
for systemically important banks even if a global agreement
isn’t reached, Sonntag reported, citing an interview.  “In Switzerland, we cannot simply do nothing because the
others don’t act,” Jordan told the Baden, Switzerland-based
newspaper in an interview to be published tomorrow. “If there
are no results on an international level -- which we don’t
expect -- there will be no reason to change” Switzerland’s plan
to introduce its own new regulations.  A Swiss government-appointed panel on Oct. 4 proposed
capital surcharges on the country’s biggest banks after the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in September set new
minimum ratios for lenders from 27 countries. The proposals
still have to be approved by Switzerland’s parliament.  “After publishing the report, we received a lot of
approving reactions from other central banks,” Jordan told
Sonntag. “I warn against splitting up the package or diluting
single measures” because then it “couldn’t do its job.”  “It’s a very balanced package,” he said.  Jordan also said he doesn’t expect lending to become more
expensive after the implementation of the new rules.  “The two big banks had to bolster their capital during the
financial crisis already, and there are no signs that loans have
become more expensive,” Jordan told the newspaper, referring to
UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG. “On the contrary, because of
the competition between banks, loans became rather less
expensive. The margins on mortgages have decreased.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Klaus Wille  in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  