-- Ukraine May Use Capital Controls to Ease Currency Volatility, Tigipko Says
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2010-10-09T06:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/ukraine-may-use-capital-controls-to-ease-currency-volatility-tigipko-says.html
Ukraine is considering capital
controls to prevent short-term investments from fueling
volatility in the country’s currency, the hryvnia, Deputy
Premier  Serhiy Tigipko  said in an interview.  “I’m certain that it’s necessary to carefully monitor the
so-called hot capital which will be entering Ukraine,” Tigipko,
50, said in Washington, where he is taking part in the annual
meeting of the International Monetary Fund. “If we see large
volumes of short-term money, then it will be necessary simply to
restrict such volumes. It’s not so difficult to do.”  Countries from Brazil to South Korea are struggling to
prevent speculators from affecting their currencies as policy
makers warn of a “currency war” to boost exports through
weaker exchange rates.  Brazil on Oct. 4 doubled the tax on foreigners’ purchases
of fixed-income assets to 4 percent to stamp out a rally that
pushed the real to a two-year high this week. Central bankers in
Colombia and Costa Rica last month initiated programs to buy
dollars to curb currency gains.  “We can make a legislative decision to limit or impose
certain regulations on withdrawing funds from Ukraine if they
were inside the country for less than a year,” Tigipko said.
“Many countries are doing it, and I think we’ll be able quickly
to introduce such a law.”  The  National Bank of Ukraine  has been buying and selling
foreign currency in a bid to stabilize the hryvnia after the
global financial crisis triggered the country’s worst recession
since 1994.  ‘Protect Our Currency’  The hryvnia fell 45 percent against the dollar in the 12
months through August 2009, making it the worst performer among
more than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The Ukrainian
currency has fallen 0.7 percent against the dollar since Sept.
1, after strengthening for the previous eight months. It was
little changed yesterday at 7.945 per dollar.  The central bank sold $686.9 million on the interbank
market last month to arrest the hryvnia’s decline, the bank
reported Oct. 6.  “If we see a risk for the country, we’ll make our decision
in order to protect our currency,” Tigipko said. “If this is
short-term speculative capital, why shouldn’t we protect
ourselves from it?”  The IMF, which approved a $15.2 billion loan for Ukraine in
July, its second for the former Soviet republic since 2008,
isn’t pressuring the country to accept greater exchange-rate
flexibility, Tigipko said.  Ukraine expects to receive the 7.8 billion hryvnia second
tranche of the IMF loan and 2.8 billion hryvnia from other
international lenders in the fourth quarter, the Finance
Ministry said Oct. 6.  No Need to Weaken  Tigipko said he saw no need to weaken the hryvnia to help
Ukraine’s export-dependent economy.  “It’s now possible to think about currency appreciation,”
he said. “Our exporters already received good advantages as it
is.”  Ukraine’s economy, which grew 5.5 percent in the first half
of the year, may expand between 4 percent and 4.5 percent this
year, exceeding the government’s official forecast of 3.7
percent, Tigipko said.  A slower pace of global recovery will restrain Ukraine’s
expansion, he said.  Inflation may be between 12 percent and 13 percent,
matching the government’s previous estimates, according to
Tigipko.  The government is discussing imposing quotas on grain
exports after crop losses sustained during record summer heat
pushed food prices higher, he said.  “It would be appropriate to create a more or less stable
reserve and restrict exports somewhat,” Tigipko said. “Even if
there are restrictions on exports, they will be absolutely
transparent actions by the government, and they will be applied
only in the short term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net . 