-- Hungary Evacuates Town on Concern Walls of Sludge Reservoir May Collapse
-- B y   B a l a z s   P e n z
-- 2010-10-09T10:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/hungary-evacuates-town-on-concern-walls-of-sludge-reservoir-may-collapse.html
Hungarian authorities evacuated a
village near the red sludge reservoir that burst this week,
killing at least seven people, as Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
said the walls of the impoundment are likely to collapse.  Kolontar, a town of 800 people 160 kilometers (100 miles)
southwest of Budapest, was emptied today after further signs of
damage to the reservoir,  Gyorgy Bakondi , head of Hungary’s
emergency services, said on the department’s  website .  “With great likelihood, we have to count on the wall
collapsing, but there’s no reason to panic,” Orban said at a
press conference in the affected region, according to the news
website Index. About 500,000 cubic meters (17.7 million cubic
feet) of sludge, 70 percent of the original spill, would be
released with a new breach, he said.  The reservoir burst Oct. 4, releasing almost as much
hazardous waste as the volume of oil that spilled into the Gulf
of Mexico after a BP Plc rig exploded earlier this year. The
sludge, created by the production of alumina, is highly alkaline
and contains toxic materials, including arsenic and lead.  Authorities are prepared to take the necessary measures to
protect the 6,000 residents of nearby Devecser, as well as the
people of Kolontar in case of another breach, Orban said after
visiting the area, MTI news service reported.  The government is building dikes near the reservoir to
contain any additional spill.  ‘Evacuation Is Inevitable’  “For the safety of local residents, evacuation of Kolontar
is inevitable,” Bakondi said in the statement. The walls of the
reservoir are “showing signs of further damage. Consequently it
means a higher risk for a mixture of red sludge and alkaline
water in the reservoir to spill out.”  The reservoir released as much as 700,000 cubic meters (25
million cubic feet) of sludge this week. An estimated 4.9
million barrels (27.5 million cubic feet) of crude oil spilled
into the Gulf of Mexico over almost three months after BP’s
Deepwater Horizon rig exploded in April.  The death toll from the sludge spill reached seven
yesterday when one person died in the hospital and two bodies
were found near one of the inundated villages, MTI news service
reported.  Worst Ecological Disaster  The incident, which the government says is the worst
“ecological disaster” in Hungary’s history, occurred at a
facility owned by  Magyar Aluminium Zrt.  Allianz SE, Europe’s
largest insurer, insured the plant through its Hungarian unit,
both for liability and property claims, spokesman  Eduard Stipic 
said yesterday. He declined to comment on potential damages.  The government won’t discuss reinstating Magyar Aluminium’s
production license until the danger has passed, Orban said,
according to Index.  The sludge flowed into the Marcal river, a tributary of the
Danube, Europe’s second-longest river. The pH level was 13 on a
14-point scale at the site of the spill and the sludge killed
all wildlife in the Marcal.  The spill doesn’t threaten the Danube because the level of
alkalinity is falling, a government official said. Alkalinity
has been measured at about 8 in the affected parts of the
Danube,  Tibor Dobson , a spokesman for the country’s  emergency
services , said by phone yesterday. Pure water has a pH of 7.  Won’t Affect Neighbors  The contamination of the Danube won’t affect neighboring
countries, Dobson said. The river reaches Croatia about 250
kilometers (155 miles) south of the Hungarian capital, then
travels through Serbia, Bulgaria, Moldova, Ukraine and Romania
before reaching the Black Sea.  There is no danger to drinking water, Hungarian Interior
Minister  Sandor Pinter  told reporters yesterday in Budapest.  The spill is more toxic than officials say, because it
contains a “surprisingly” high level of toxins, Marton Vay,
spokesman for the Hungarian chapter of  Greenpeace , said
yesterday. The concentration of arsenic is twice the normal
level for red sludge, he said, citing tests by two laboratories.  The government had the sludge examined by experts at the
Hungarian Academy of Sciences and disagrees with the Greenpeace
findings, said Anna Nagy, a government spokeswoman.  Hungary yesterday activated the European Union’s Civil
Protection Mechanism as it seeks “urgent international
assistance” in dealing with the spill.  The country needs as many as five experts to help clean up
the spill. They must have “strong field experience in handling
toxic sludge, decontamination and mitigation of environmental
damage,” the European Commission said in an e-mailed statement.  Hungarian authorities have started a criminal investigation
into the accident. The spill was “probably caused by human
error,” Nagy said yesterday at a press conference in Budapest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Balazs Penz  in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net . 