-- United, Continental Pilots Extend Talks on Joint Labor Accord After Merger
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-10-09T15:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/united-continental-pilots-extend-talks-on-joint-labor-accord-after-merger.html
Pilots at  United Airlines  and
 Continental Airlines  agreed to a two-month extension in talks to
reach a contract with their newly merged carrier before seeking
help from federal mediators.  “The parties have made sufficient progress that we believe
it is in the best interest of our pilots to continue direct
negotiations,”  Jay Pierce , chairman of the Continental pilots
union, said today in an e-mail.  The  Air Line Pilots Association  groups at each airline said
in July they would ask the  National Mediation Board  to join the
discussions if an accord wasn’t reached by Oct. 12 with  United
Continental Holdings Inc. , the carriers’ parent company. Pierce
said pilot leaders delayed seeking such help until Dec. 17.  United Continental is working to move all work groups to
unified contracts by the time it receives a single operating
certificate in about a year. Having one labor accord for each
group should reduce duplication and costs at the Chicago-based
airline.  Julie King , a United Continental spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail today that the company is “working closely” with the
pilots association to reach an agreement “that is fair to our
pilots and fair to the company.”  Pushing back a decision to involve mediators “provides the
company an opportunity to accelerate the process consistent with
its original goal of an expedited contract,”  Wendy Morse , the
pilot union chairman at United, said in an e-mail.  The pilots and airline management have agreed in principle
on 6 of 25 sections in the contract since starting talks Aug.
10, according to the union, the only labor group at United
Continental in negotiations on a joint accord.  UAL Corp.’s United and Continental Airlines Inc. closed
their stock-swap merger on Oct. 1 to create the world’s largest
airline. United and Continental will operate separately until
cleared by U.S. regulators to fly as one carrier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  