-- Vranos's Ellington Financial Raises $101 Million in Second Attempt at IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2010-10-09T04:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/vranos-s-bond-fund-falls-as-more-than-half-of-u-s-ipos-delayed.html
Ellington Financial LLC , the
mortgage-backed bond fund run by  Michael Vranos , declined after
its $101 million initial public offering as more than half of
this week’s U.S. IPOs were postponed or delayed.  The company fell 3.3 percent to $21.75 in U.S. composite
trading yesterday after selling shares for $22.50 each. Old
Greenwich, Connecticut-based  Ellington Financial  intends to use
the proceeds to buy the types of mortgage bonds that helped
cause the biggest housing bust since the Great Depression.  Vranos, the former head of mortgage-securities trading at
Kidder Peabody & Co., completed the sale 10 months after failing
to raise more than twice the amount in the fund’s first IPO
attempt. Of the six other U.S. initial sales planned this week,
only two Chinese companies,  Daqo New Energy Corp.  and Global
Education & Technology Group Ltd., attracted enough buyers as
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed to a five-month high.  “It underlines how selective the market is,” said  Josef Schuster , the Chicago-based founder of IPOX Capital Management
LLC, which oversees $3 billion. “The emerging market ones,
China-related, there’s much more initial interest. There’s a lot
of demand there.”  Ellington Financial’s offering came after the market for
U.S. initial sales began to rebound last month, with eight of 10
IPOs posting gains, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Chinese IPOs  At least 47 companies have postponed or withdrawn initial
offerings in the U.S. this year amid speculation that the
recovery from the longest recession since the Great Depression
is deteriorating.  Linc Logistics Co. , the Warren, Michigan-based
logistics company, delayed its $147 million IPO on Oct. 6,
according to Bloomberg data.  The initial offering was one of at least four U.S. IPOs
scheduled for this week to be postponed or delayed, after seven
companies tried to raise $1.3 billion, the data showed.  Global Education , a Beijing-based language test preparation
provider, rose 16 percent to $12.20 in its first day of trading
yesterday after selling 6.4 million American depositary receipts
at $10.50 each. Daqo, the Chongqing, China-based maker of
polysilicon materials for solar panels, advanced 7.9 percent in
its stock-market debut after raising $76 million on Oct. 6.  Chinese companies have recorded six of the 10 biggest
advances among IPOs in the U.S. this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative Value  “It looks like the more interesting IPOs were the foreign
ones,” said  Joseph Garner , director of research at Lancaster,
Pennsylvania-based Emerald Asset Management Inc., which oversees
about $2 billion. “There’s still appetite there for quality
companies with compelling growth stories at reasonable
valuations. You have to fit all three.”  As much as  95 percent  of the proceeds from Ellington
Financial’s IPO will be used to buy securities tied to subprime,
Alt-A, or prime home loans that lack guarantees from government
agencies such as Fannie Mae. The purchases would add to the $246
million the fund held in such securities at the end of June.  Ellington Financial had a so-called book value, or its
assets minus liabilities, of $25.31 per share as of Aug. 31,
according to its filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The midpoint offer price of $23 a share would have
been a 9.1 percent discount to the fund’s net assets, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The average  U.S. real estate investment trust  that buys
mortgages is valued at 0.98 times its shareholder equity, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Take a Gamble’  “If you’re going to ask them to buy into asset pools that
will be buying more speculative assets, you have to give people
enough of a discount where they’re willing to take a gamble,”
said  Michael Yoshikami , who oversees about $1 billion at YCMNet
Advisors in Walnut Creek, California. “Risk appetite has
increased, but people are still risk averse.”  Deutsche Bank AG  of Frankfurt led the Ellington Financial’s
sale. Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG , its lead underwriter
in December, was dropped from the deal, its filings showed.  Ellington Financial was established in August 2007, the
month that the credit crisis began, after raising $239.7 million
in a private sale to institutional buyers.  From its inception through the end of 2008, the fund
returned 0.52 percent, before a 43 percent gain last year.
Ellington Financial has returned 7.3 percent this year through
August, compared with the 7.4 percent gain, including dividends,
for the  BBREIT Mortgage Index , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Magna Cum Laude  Vranos, 49, came to Wall Street more than two decades ago
after winning the 1981 teenage Mr. Connecticut title as a
bodybuilder and weightlifter and graduating with a magna cum
laude degree in mathematics from Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
 Harvard University  in 1983.  He made Kidder one of the biggest underwriters of mortgage
bonds in the early 1990s after being put in charge of the
mortgage desk. The unit earned hundreds of millions of dollars
under Vranos, in some years bringing in as much as half of the
firm’s profit. He left Kidder in 1994 to start Ellington
Management Group LLC, named after the Connecticut town where he
grew up, helped by $100 million from Ziff Brothers Investments.  Vranos was unavailable for comment, according to  Patrick Clifford , a spokesman for Ellington Financial.  At least three companies plan to sell a combined $409
million of shares through U.S. IPOs next week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. All three offerings are scheduled for Oct. 14.  Next Week’s IPOs  NetSpend Holdings Inc. , the issuer of reloadable prepaid
debit cards based in Austin, Texas, is raising  $222 million  in
what would be the biggest IPO of the three. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Bank of America Corp. in Charlotte, North Carolina, and
Chicago-based William Blair & Co. are leading the sale.  Tower International Inc. , the automobile parts supplier
owned by New York-based buyout firm Cerberus Capital Management
LP, is attempting a $106 million initial offering. Goldman
Sachs, Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York are
managing the Livonia, Michigan-based company’s sale.  Body Central  Acquisition Corp., the clothing retailer based
in Jacksonville, Florida, will seek to raise  $80 million . The
IPO is being led by Piper Jaffray Cos. of Minneapolis and New
York-based Jefferies Group Inc. The company will change its name
to Body Central Corp. before the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Cecile Vannucci  in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 