-- China's Zhou Warns Mounting Deficits Pose Risk of Sovereign Debt Default
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-09T18:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-09/zhou-says-china-s-current-monetary-policies-sufficient-to-cap-inflation.html
China’s central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said the global economic recovery is “weak and highly
uneven” and warned that mounting fiscal deficits in developed
countries may lead to renewed risks of sovereign default that
would destabilize financial markets.  “Sovereign risks could deteriorate again at any time,
producing systemic effects on the global financial stability,”
he said in a statement released in Washington at the annual
meeting of the International Monetary Fund. The developed
countries, he said, “should formulate and implement credible
fiscal consolidation plans, and prevent sovereign risks from
damaging financial stability.”  China, the world’s second-largest economy, has come under
mounting criticism from the U.S. and other trading partners who
accuse it of keeping its currency, the yuan, undervalued. The
meetings of the IMF and Group of 20 officials have focused on
ways of resolving exchange rate differences to avoid what some
officials have warned may turn into a protectionist “currency
war.”  Zhou  said China would continue to implement “aggressive
fiscal policies and appropriately accommodative monetary
policy” in an effort to “stimulate domestic demand.”  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  last night singled
out China for criticism at a press conference, saying countries
like China that control their exchange rates “invite
retaliation.”  ‘Minimal’ Changes  He said “only minimal, minor” changes in the yuan
exchange rate had happened since China committed to allowing
more flexibility before the June Group of 20 nations meeting in
Toronto. The yuan has appreciated about 2.3 percent against the
dollar since the end of May.  Zhou said the “most fundamental problems” facing the
global recovery are “the slow progress of developed countries
in repairing and reforming their financial systems, and the
continued reliance on policy support for the stability of the
financial sector.”  “This not only increases fiscal burdens, but, more
importantly, reduces the effectiveness of supportive monetary
policy,” he said.  He said the developed countries “need to accelerate their
disposition of toxic assets, restructure problem institutions,
supplement bank capital, strengthen financial regulation and
rebuild sound financial systems.”  ‘Fragile’ Recovery  The oversight committee of the IMF today issued a statement
saying the global recovery “remains fragile and uneven.”  “While the international monetary system has proved
resilient, tensions and vulnerabilities remain as a result of
widening global imbalances, continued volatile capital flows,
exchange rate movements, and issued related to the supply and
accumulation of official reserves,” the committee of the board
of governors said today after talks in Washington.  The recession that began in the U.S. in December 2007 and
ended in June 2009 was sparked by a collapse in the subprime
mortgage market that led to a global credit crisis and a
worldwide economic contraction. The U.S. has since enacted
financial regulatory measures that some economists say don’t go
far enough, while Europe is seeking to implement its own
measures.  “In view of the deepening trading, economic and financial
ties, the international community should guard against the risk
of trade and financial protectionism, continue to strengthen
global cooperation, and enhance policy coordination,” Zhou
said.  Capping Inflation  Zhou yesterday told reporters that China’s existing
monetary policy measures were sufficient to cap inflation
expectations and pledged to curb price gains while maintaining
economic growth.  “There is no evidence to show the current quantitative
tools, including the reserve requirement and the open market
operation to mop up liquidity, are insufficient to control
inflation expectations,” Zhou said.  Zhou’s comments buttress economists’ forecast that China’s
benchmark interest rates may stay on hold this year even after
 inflation  quickened to a 22-month high of 3.5 percent in August.
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in a CNN interview broadcast
Oct. 3 that controlling inflation is a priority after the nation
rolled out a 4 trillion yuan ($599 billion) stimulus package to
spur growth.  China Stands Alone  China stands apart from Asian economies including South
Korea, Taiwan, Malaysia and India in keeping borrowing costs at
crisis levels even after the Chinese economy bounced back from
the global recession with climbing consumer and property prices.  While keeping benchmark rates on hold, the People’s Bank of
China has asked lenders to set aside more money as  reserves  and
targeted a 22 percent reduction in loan growth this year in a
drive to curb liquidity and inflation. The government aims for 3
percent inflation for 2010.  While reining in liquidity, Chinese policy makers are also
trying to cool the country’s property market as house prices
soar. Last month, the government added to curbs by tightening
down-payment rules for first homes, suspending third-home loans
nationwide and pledging to quicken a trial of a property tax.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net 
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net 
 Ye Xie  in Washington at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Kennedy at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net  