-- Alitalia Third-Quarter Loss Narrows on Cost Cuts
-- Alessandro Torello
-- 2007-11-13T20:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-11-13/alitalia-third-quarter-loss-narrows-on-cost-cuts-update2-.html

          
          
             Alitalia  SpA,  Italy 's biggest
airline, which the government is selling, said its third-quarter
loss narrowed as the company reduced operating costs.  
 The Rome-based carrier had a pretax loss of 58 million
euros ($84.7 million), compared with a loss of less than 67
million euros a year earlier, it said in a stock exchange
statement today. It didn't provide net income figures. Revenue
from traffic fell 2.7 percent to 1.2 billion euros, while total
sales rose 1 percent to 1.27 billion euros.  
 Alitalia's fuel costs dropped by 22 million euros to 281
million euros, mainly because of a favorable exchange rate and
lower average consumption, it said. Total operating costs
declined 0.8 percent to 1.29 billion euros.  
 The Italian government has given Chairman Maurizio Prato a
mandate to sell its 49.9 percent stake in the airline, which has
posted a profit only once in seven years. The third-quarter loss
shows how urgent the sale is. Prato has said the airline is in a
``comatose state.''  
 Air France-KLM (AF)  Group and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe's
two biggest airlines, are interested in the stake, as are AP
Holding SpA, the parent company of Alitalia's main domestic
competitor Air One, and  Russia 's OAO Aeroflot, eastern Europe's
largest airline.  
 The government had to scrap an auction for the stake in
July after all of the bidders dropped out.Prato plans to
recommend a buyer to the government on Nov. 16, Transport
Minister Alessandro Bianchi has said.  
 The company's operating loss for the full year should be in
line with that of 2006, excluding the value writedown of some
aircraft that was included in last year's numbers, Alitalia said
today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Torello in  Rome  at 
 atorello@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Jasper at   cjasper@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        