-- Irish Life Slides After Saying Profit May Decline
-- Dara Doyle
-- 2007-12-13T15:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-12-13/irish-life-slides-after-saying-profit-may-decline-update1-.html

          
          
             Irish Life  & Permanent Plc fell the
most since it was created eight years ago after Ireland's largest
life insurer said operating  profit  may fall in 2008.  
 The shares tumbled 1.13 euros, or 8.4 percent, to 12.23 euros
as of 3:20 p.m. in Dublin, having dropped as much as 12 percent.
The shares have fallen 41 percent this year, compared with the
15 percent drop in the 63-member Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and
Financial Services Index.  
 The company, which also has a banking division, may face a
``single-digit'' loss in operating profit next year if a recent
rise in borrowing costs doesn't abate, Dublin-based Irish Life said
today in a statement.  
 Earnings growth at Irish banks is being hurt by a slowdown in
lending after the  European Central Bank  raised  interest rates  eight
times since late 2005. Banks are also grappling with higher
borrowing costs in money markets amid the fallout from the U.S.
subprime mortgage crisis.  
 ``The guidance is disappointing,'' said Sebastian Orsi, an
analyst at Merrion Capital in Dublin.  
 Interest rates on loans in euros held at a seven-year high, a
day after central banks in Europe joined forces to end a lending
logjam threatening the global economy. The cost to borrow for three
months remained at 4.95 percent, the British Bankers' Association
said today.  
 In the absence of the credit shortage, operating profit would
have grown by ``low double digits'' next year, Chief Executive
Officer Denis Casey said on a conference call today.  
 2007 Profit Growth  
 The company, which was created by Irish Life Plc's purchase
of Irish Permanent Plc in 1999, also said operating profit from
banking and insurance in 2007 will show ``high teens'' percentage
growth, cutting an Aug. 29 forecast that earnings would rise ``in
excess'' of 20 percent.  
 Irish Life said it took an 11 million-euro charge at its
banking unit related to the actions of a lawyer, without giving
more details.  
 Irish Life will publish its full-year results on Feb. 28.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at   rhamade@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        