-- Merrill brokers want more power for their boss
-- By  Tim McLaughlin
-- Mon Nov 19, 2007 9:41am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/11/19/businesspro-merrilllynch-brokers-dc-idUSN1945593620071119

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Top brokers at Merrill Lynch & Co Inc 
MER.N who oversee billions of dollars in client assets have 
urged the board to give more power to their boss, Robert 
McCann, who was sidelined under former CEO Stan O'Neal. 

  Twenty-one Merrill brokers recently wrote a letter to the 
board requesting that McCann, head of the global private client 
business, be considered as a president or co-president of the 
company. The brokers are from Merrill's Circle of Champions 
group, which recognizes the top producers among an army of 
about 16,000 brokers.  The board received the letter before naming NYSE Euronext 
NYX.N CEO John Thain last week as Merrill's new chairman and 
CEO. Thain's appointment was seen as a good move by investors, 
analysts and Merrill brokers because of his previous leadership 
roles at Goldman Sachs Group Inc ( GS.N ).  Nevertheless, it has been several years since Merrill's 
brokerage division has had a representative at the top level of 
company management. The division has been a bright spot for 
Merrill, whose share price has been hammered amid a $2.3 
billion loss in the third quarter, mostly because of bad bets 
on subprime mortgage-related assets.  Merrill brokers said rival firms have tried to capitalize 
on the turmoil by trying to recruit some of them. They also 
have had to calm jittery clients worried that their assets 
might be exposed to risky subprime mortgages.  "We recognize that the success of all the different 
businesses at Merrill Lynch is critical to our long-term 
success as a firm, but we believe the Private Client business 
represents the core of what the Merrill Lynch culture is all 
about," the brokers wrote in a letter obtained by Reuters. "We 
believe that a team effort at the highest executive level of 
the firm is required and that the Private Client business 
should be represented at the presidential level."  The letter-writing group is represented by top brokers 
throughout the United States and includes Mark Sear and David 
Hou, who left Goldman Sachs in the late 1990s to become two of 
Merrill's top producers in southern California. In 2005, for 
example, Barron's said the duo looked after $2 billion in 
client assets.  Merrill declined to comment on the letter.  McCann, 49, oversees Merrill's global wealth management 
group, which includes the brokerage division and nearly $2 
trillion in client assets. In May, a reorganization severed 
McCann's direct reporting relationship to O'Neal while the 
company made star investment banker Greg Fleming and Ahmass 
Fakahany, a top finance and administrative executive, 
co-presidents.  Sources said the board interviewed McCann for the CEO post, 
and inside and outside the company there's speculation he 
ultimately could share power with Fleming.  McCann left Merrill in 2003 after 21 years at the company 
for AXA Financial during a period of exodus by several 
executives. But at the behest of O'Neal, he returned several 
months later to calm unrest in the brokerage ranks.  McCann previously was a Merrill representative in the 
industry-wide bailout of failed hedge fund Long-Term Capital 
Management. He later was tapped to clean up Merrill's research 
division after the 2001 investigation of the company's stock 
analysts by the New York Attorney General.  "There is no doubt in our minds, that if called upon, Bob 
McCann would be an outstanding leader of this firm," the letter 
said.  (Reporting by Tim McLaughlin, editing by Maureen Bavdek)