-- Buffett Revisits Hunting Ground for Survivors: Alice Schroeder
-- Alice Schroeder
-- 2009-11-03T21:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-11-03/buffett-revisits-hunting-ground-for-survivors-alice-schroeder.html

          
          
             Warren Buffett  called Berkshire
Hathaway Inc.’s deal to buy the part of Burlington
Northern Santa Fe Corp. that it doesn’t already own an “all-in
wager on the economic future of the United States.”  
 If so, it’s a survivalist bet. The railroad business is
never going away, but it’s not going to lead the economy out of
recession, either. Buffett has spent a lot of time in the last
year burnishing his legacy by tackling  Franklin Roosevelt’s  role
as the verbal antidepressant for this wretched economy. As I
have said before, though, Buffett isn’t as bullish as he sounds.  
 This deal has a feel about it of Berkshire’s 1998
acquisition of General Re, the last monster acquisition, which
was overpriced and done with stock for complex motives that
reached far beyond the appeal of the underlying business. Like
 General Re , Burlington is an uncharacteristically expensive
deal. Berkshire is paying more than 18 times Burlington’s 2010
earnings, with 40 percent of the price in stock.  
 Fortunately, this time he’s getting a less risky company.
This deal is mostly about managing risk. One of the many motives
is to soak up  Berkshire’s capital  while Buffett is at the wheel.
That lowers the danger of his successor doing something dumb. In
that sense, it furthers a goal that Buffett once told me about:
to create a company that will last a generation beyond his
death. He can’t ensure it but he is going to try.  
 Railroads as Survivors  
 Buffett  likes companies  that make bricks and boots and
paint and electric utilities because they are survivors. So are
railroads. Financial services have always been an exception --
the risky rocket fuel that leveraged the rest of Berkshire.
Buffett acknowledged that he bought General Re during the
Internet bubble partly to dilute Berkshire’s equity holdings in
stocks that couldn’t easily be sold, such as  Coca-Cola Co.   
 The combined effect of Berkshire’s huge and leveraged
financial business cost the company its AAA credit rating during
the financial crisis. Buffett considered the top grading the
company’s “most precious asset,” something he would never do
anything to endanger. He has downplayed the loss of the rating
in public, but a motive of the Burlington deal is that it allows
Buffett to protect his legacy by diluting Berkshire’s exposure
to financial services. Who knows what it will take to manage
risk in the markets 10 years from now?  
 Trial Balloon  
 Buffett has to be thinking about what that means for his
successor, yet another motive. For some time, he has been
floating the name of  David Sokol , who runs his utility business
and NetJets, as a trial balloon (meaning he can yank the string
back at any time). I admire and respect Sokol, but my comfort
with him as chief executive officer is in inverse proportion to
Berkshire’s exposure to financial services. Even brilliant CEOs
often can’t manage such companies. The Burlington acquisition
makes me a lot happier with Buffett’s choice of Sokol.  
 There are many other motives. Burlington is well-managed.
Railroads are a bet against the U.S. dollar and in favor of
higher energy costs. Railroads are a play on the trade deficit
because this is how we haul all those containers of stuff
imported from Asia. In recent years, they have become somewhat
like electric utilities that earn a respectable return on
capital.  U.S. railroads , which have been around since the early
1800s, won’t disappear any time soon. Berkshire is lobbying on
energy policy, and this deal gives it more clout. There are some
subtle synergies between the utility business and the railroad.  
 Stock Mincing  
 A final motive I am confident about is that Buffett finally
has a plausible excuse to split Berkshire’s B shares. He has
spilled a lot of ink over the years decrying stock splits. A 50-
to-1 ratio isn’t a stock split, it is a mincing. Why do it?
Buffett has just given Standard & Poor’s the ticket it needs to
add Berkshire to the  S&P 500 Index  at a time when S&P is
desperate for large, solvent, high-quality companies to replace
the casualties of last year’s carnage. It is high time for
Standard & Poor’s to do this, but the stock’s liquidity has
always been the sticking point.  
 Buffett would never admit to wanting Berkshire to join the
S&P, but becoming an acknowledged peer to other major companies
is part of the path to his legacy. It isn’t enough for him that
Berkshire lives on profitably long after he does. Berkshire is
his “didactic enterprise,” his way of teaching the world how
he thinks a business should be run.  
 Of course, this is about Buffett’s ego, but then so are
most great achievements. The business world would have been a
lot better place in the past two years if more companies were
run with survival and longevity in mind like Berkshire Hathaway.  
 It’s safe to say, therefore, that as long as he is able,
Buffett will keep an eye looking backward over his shoulder for
possible  acquisitions  toward the companies such as railroads
that he studied in his childhood. From the perspective of his
almost 80 years, this is a hunting ground for more survivors.  
 ( Alice Schroeder , author of “The Snowball: Warren Buffett
and the Business of Life,” is a Bloomberg News columnist and a
Berkshire Hathaway shareholder. The opinions expressed are her
own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Alice Schroeder at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNSF) locomotive moves through an intermodal facility in Chicago, Nov. 3, 2009. Photographer: Frank Polich/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Warren Buffett, chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., gestures towards attendees taking his photo as part of the Berkshire Hathaway annual shareholder meeting weekend in Omaha, Nebraska, on May 3, 2009. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
