-- Can You Get the Business and IT to Agree?
-- Susan Cramm
-- 2009-11-04T03:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-11-03/can-you-get-the-business-and-it-to-agree-.html

          
          
             My last post asked you to help resolve the business-IT standoff  concerning the approach for a large transformation project. To recap, the business leader wants to use a three-year "big bang" consultant-driven approach while the VP of IT wants to use an iterative, fast-cycle approach. The standoff has become apparent to the powers-that-be and the two leaders have been tasked with developing a joint recommendation. With some additional education, the business leader is ready to adopt the iterative approach but is uncertain how to do so.   

 Based on the quality of the advice you shared in the last blog, you have been retained by the business and IT leaders to help define an iterative approach to the project. The three of you are meeting tomorrow and, in preparation, you met with them individually to better understand their respective views:   

 The business leader viewpoint:  

 "I still can't believe that the IT VP and I are so far apart on this. The executive committee meeting was an embarrassment. The IT VP said absolutely nothing, leaving me to carry the load. As I was the lone voice, it was obvious to all that we weren't on the same page. I had no idea that the iterative versus "3-year" approach was a deal breaker for him. Fortunately, the timing of the software vendor's user conference last week couldn't have been better. We spent time together and engaged in discussions with others who have traveled this path before. I heard the benefits of fast-cycle delivery, but I still don't know how we are going to make this happen. It seems too good to be true. The iterative approach seems like starting an around-the-world trek with nothing but a globe and a big, fat checkbook. At least with the three-year approach, I'd have a detailed itinerary in hand once the six-month requirements phase was completed."  

 The IT leader viewpoint:  

 "I know it's hard for my business counterpart to get his head around the iterative approach. His experience is operational, not transformational. Before the users' conference, we spent four long, frustrating, unproductive hours trying to get him to define an iterative approach to the project. The meeting was doomed from the start. Believe it or not, at the beginning he said, "Thanks for coming. We are here to talk about different approaches and I don't believe there are any, so you will have to prove it to me." The users' conference gave us a fresh start and the opportunity to learn from others who have undergone similar transformations. My business sponsor is much more open to the iterative approach now and it's time to seal the deal and define a joint recommendation." 

 As you consider how to facilitate tomorrow's meeting, you review the advice shared in the last blog and prepare this summary: 

 Focus on the benefits: 

 Find ways to adapt the means to the ends and the ends to the means. 
 If the project is divisible into smaller chunks, then benefits will be delivered with every chunk. Define them. Benefits now are always better than benefits later.  
 Have the IT lead define the three-year vision. 
 Select the right IT and business leadership: 

 Where is the business sponsor in the "pecking order" and does he have the right skills? 
 Transfer the risk to the IT VP and go with an iterative approach, but have a third-party consulting firm at the ready. 
 The leaders are ready and willing to move forward with an iterative approach and have agreed to heed your advice. How are you going to help them define an approach that works for everyone? 
          
          


  


        