-- Sinopec, Sabic to Start $2.7 Billion Chemical Plant
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2009-11-03T10:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-11-03/sinopec-sabic-to-start-2-7-billion-chemical-plant-update1-.html

          
          
             Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world’s biggest chemicals maker, and  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (600028)  will begin production at an 18.3 billion-yuan ($2.7
billion) plant by the first quarter to meet demand in  China .  
 The plant in Tianjin will help Sinopec, as China Petroleum
is known, “consolidate” market share in northern China,
President Wang Tianpu told reporters at an inauguration ceremony
of the petrochemical complex in Beijing today. The project will
focus on meeting local demand, he said.  
 Saudi Basic, or Sabic, plans to expand in China to tap the
nation’s rising consumption of chemicals used to make auto parts,
packaging and plastics. China’s monthly passenger car sales
passed 1 million vehicles for the first time in September,
according to official data, on track to surpass the U.S. as the
world’s biggest automobile market by the year end.  
 The complex will produce 3.2 million metric tons annually
of various chemical products, including 1 million tons of
ethylene, as well as other downstream products such as
polyethylene, ethylene glycol, polypropylene, butadiene, phenol,
and butene-1, the companies said in a joint statement.  
 Sabic and Sinopec, China’s biggest oil refiner, signed an
initial agreement in January 2008 to form an equal joint venture
on the Tianjin plant. The venture’s initial estimated investment
was $1.7 billion.  
 Tianjin Economy  
 The project will support an annual gross domestic product
increase of more than 4 percent in Tianjin and trigger
investment of an additional 100 billion  yuan  in downstream and
associated industries, according to today’s statement.  
 The venture will serve as a “platform for the expansion of
future cooperation,” Sinopec Chairman Su Shulin was quoted as
saying in the statement. Sabic and Sinopec will jointly invest
in more projects in China, Saudi Arabia and other parts of the
world, Su said at the ceremony.  
 China, the world’s second-biggest energy user, imported
about 3.7 million tons, or 20 percent of its crude requirements,
from Saudi Arabia last month.  
 Sinopec plans to import at least 50 million tons of crude a
year from the Middle Eastern country, Wang said today, without
giving a time frame.  
 Separately, Saudi Aramco may take a stake in Sinopec’s
Qingdao refinery in Shandong province, he said, without giving
details.  
 Sabic added U.S. assets with the purchase of General
Electric Co.’s plastics unit for $11.6 billion last year and
expanded in  Europe  through the 2002 purchase of Royal DSM NV’s
petrochemicals division.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        