-- Sinopec May Post Refining Profit in Fourth Quarter, CFO Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2009-11-03T11:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-11-03/sinopec-may-post-refining-profit-in-fourth-quarter-cfo-says.html

          
          
             China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,
 Asia ’s biggest oil refiner, may post a refining profit in the
fourth quarter, Chief Financial Officer Wang Xinhua said today.  
 “Generally speaking, our fourth quarter can be a
relatively good one for the refining business, although there
might be slight losses in some days,” Wang said after a
ceremony to mark the inauguration of a chemical plant in Beijing.  
 Sinopec, as  China  Petroleum is known, recorded a processing
margin of $5.2 a barrel in the third quarter and the average
margin for the first nine months was $7.7, the company said on a
conference call on Oct. 30. The company’s third-quarter profit
missed analysts’ estimates as rebounding crude  oil prices 
squeezed margins from processing fuels.  
 China, the world’s second-biggest energy user, introduced a
pricing mechanism in December last year that adjusts fuel prices
according to crude oil costs and ensures refiners a profit.  
 Increases in domestic oil-product prices have lagged behind
gains in global crude, prompting speculation the company’s
profit in the fourth quarter will decline from the previous
three months. Net income in the third-quarter was 16.55 billion
 yuan , a 25 percent drop from a record 22.03 billion yuan in the
April-to-June quarter.  
 Price Adjustments  
 The National Development and Reform Commission, China’s top
economic planner, said on May 8 the government will ensure a
“normal profit” for refiners when crude trades below $80 a
barrel. Refining margins will be reduced if crude is between $80
and $130, the NDRC said.  
 The government raised fuel prices four times and cut them
three times this year, compared with two adjustments in 2008,
after the introduction of the pricing mechanism in December.
Gasoline prices have risen 19 percent this year, while crude has
gained 80 percent to about $80 a barrel.  
 Sinopec expects the Chinese government to adhere to the
current pricing mechanism when adjusting fuel prices, Wang said
today. “So far we haven’t received the official notice from the
government about the next fuel price increase and we are
expecting it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        