-- Pakistan, Islamic Development Plan Sales: Islamic Bond Alert
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-10-26T03:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/abu-dhabi-islamic-saudi-aramco-plan-sales-islamic-bond-alert.html
The following borrowers are expected
to sell Islamic bonds, which use asset returns to pay investors
to comply with the religion’s ban on interest.  Global sales of sukuk fell 24 percent to $12 billion so far
this year from the same period in 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance totaled $20.2 billion last year,
up from $14.1 billion in 2008.  PAKISTAN: The government may sell about 40 billion rupees
($466 million) of three-year Islamic bonds in the domestic
market by the end of October, according to  Irfan Siddiqui , the
chief executive officer at  Meezan Bank Ltd . The bank is working
with the government to structure the sale of the floating-rate
notes, he said.  ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK: The multilateral lender plans to
issue more Islamic bonds next year after completing a $500
million bond sale last week, President  Ahmad Mohammed Ali  said
in Jeddah yesterday. The bank will use the proceeds to finance
agricultural and energy projects in the Muslim world, he said.  THAILAND: The Islamic Bank of Thailand, the nation’s only
bank to comply with Shariah law’s ban on interest, will delay
the country’s first sale of sukuk until early next year as it
awaits new guidelines from the securities commission, President
 Dheerasak Suwannayos  said yesterday. The government is also
considering selling 40 billion baht ($1.3 billion) to 50 billion
baht of Islamic bonds to fund infrastructure projects, he said.  KNM GROUP BHD.:  The Malaysian oil and gas services provider
won approval from the Securities Commission to sell as much as
1.5 billion ringgit ($484 million) of Islamic debt, according to
a statement to the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange on Oct. 22. The
proposed issue involves as much as 400 million ringgit of
commercial paper and 1.1 billion ringgit of medium term notes,
it said.  KONSORTIUM LEBUHRAYA UTARA-TIMUR: The owner of Malaysia’s
Duta-Ulu Kelang Expressway, plans to issue as much as 820
million ringgit of Islamic bonds, Malaysian Rating Corp. said in
a statement yesterday. The toll-road operator also plans to sell
50 million ringgit of conventional redeemable junior bonds, it
said. Malaysian Rating assigned a AA- rating to the sukuk
program and A- to the junior notes, according to the statement.
Konsortium Lebuhraya, or Kesturi, will use the proceeds to
redeem its existing 780 million ringgit sukuk, Malaysian Rating
said.  ABU DHABI ISLAMIC BANK PJSC: The United Arab Emirates’
second-biggest Shariah-compliant lender said it would start
meeting investors in Asia, Europe and the Middle East last week
before a sale of Islamic bonds, according to a statement to the
Abu Dhabi Bourse. The bank hired HSBC Holdings Plc, Standard
Chartered Plc and Barclays Plc to help sell sukuk, according to
two bankers familiar with the plan. The bank has a $5 billion
sukuk trust certificate program, according to a prospectus dated
July 8 posted by the company on the London Stock Exchange’s
website.  SAUDI ARABIAN OIL CO.: Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest
state-owned oil company, and Total SA plan to sell Islamic bonds
valued at $1 billion this year to fund construction of their
joint oil refinery in Jubail, said Simon Eedle, global head of
Islamic banking at Credit Agricole SA, the lead arranger of the
sale.  GAMUDA BHD.: The Malaysian builder plans to sell as much as
800 million ringgit ($258 million) of Islamic notes this year,
according to RAM Rating Services Bhd., which rated the bonds AA3,
its fourth-highest rating.  EGYPT: Egypt plans to issue guidelines on Islamic debt
issuance in 2011 to pave the way for sukuk sales in the country,
said Ziad Bahaa El-Din, chairman of the Cairo-based Egyptian
Financial Supervisory Authority. Al Baraka Bank Egypt ESC, a
Cairo unit of Bahrain-based Islamic lender Albaraka Banking
Group, may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the second
half of 2011, said the bank’s Chairman Adnan Ahmed Yousif.  PT BANK MUAMALAT INDONESIA: The Islamic lender plans to
sell 1 trillion rupiah ($112 million) of Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, Andi Buchari, director of compliance and
corporate planning at the Jakarta-based bank, was quoted as
saying by the Investor Daily newspaper.  SENAI-DESARU EXPRESSWAY BHD.: The operator of Malaysia’s
third-longest highway in the state of Johor will issue as much
as 1.15 billion ringgit of Islamic medium-term notes to
bondholders in November as part of its debt restructuring
program, Chief Executive Officer Mustaza Salim said. The new
issue includes debt with maturities ranging from one year to
20.5 years, the company said in a statement.  CAGAMAS BHD.: Malaysia’s national mortgage company may sell
more Islamic bonds this year or next following a sale in August
under its 5 billion ringgit Sukuk al-Amanah Li al-Istithmar
program, Chief Executive Officer Steven Choy said.  NAKHEEL PJSC: The property unit of Dubai World may issue as
much as $3.2 billion of five-year sukuk to pay contractors as
part of its debt restructuring plan, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said
in a report Aug. 26. The bond to be issued against trade claims
is estimated to have a fair value in the low 60 cents to the U.S.
dollar, it said. The developer aims to settle 1.5 billion
dirhams ($408 million) it owes to contractors in September,
Chairman  Ali Lootah  was cited as saying by the Al Bayan
newspaper on Aug. 30. Nakheel is in preliminary talks with
Nasdaq Dubai to list Islamic bonds, Chairman Ali Rashed Lootah
said without providing details.  MALAYSIA DEBT VENTURES BHD.: The venture capital firm owned
by the Ministry of Finance plans to sell as much as 500 million
ringgit of sukuk in September or October next year to fund
investments in technology projects, said Chief Executive Officer
Md. Zubir Ansori Yahaya. The company sold a similar amount last
month.  ALBARAKA BANKING GROUP: The largest listed Islamic bank in
Bahrain expects to raise $200 million from the sale of Shariah-
compliant bonds before the end of the year, using Standard
Chartered Plc as one of the managers, Chief Executive Officer
 Adnan Ahmed Yousif  said last month.  ARAB PETROLEUM INVESTMENTS CORP.: The energy investment
unit of the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries
plans to sell a Saudi riyal-denominated benchmark-sized bond as
the company expands in the kingdom, the company said last month.
It didn’t say whether the debt will be Islamic.  INDONESIA: Southeast Asia’s largest economy plans to sell
Islamic debt in the overseas market in the first half of 2011
and for individual investors in the first quarter, said  Rahmat Waluyanto , director general at the finance ministry’s debt
management office.  TURKEY: Citigroup Inc. plans to arrange more sales of
Islamic bonds from Turkey after managing a $100 million issue
for Kuveyt Turk Katilim Bankasi AS, said Hulusi Horozoglu,
director of global Islamic banking at Citigroup. Kuveyt may sell
more than $100 million of five-year sukuk in 2012, the company’s
Chief Executive Officer  Ufuk Uyan  said on Aug. 25. The Turkish
government may consider selling yen-denominated bonds or Islamic
securities, Emre Balibek, the Treasury’s deputy general director
for public finance said in June. Turkey is rated Ba2 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BB by Standard & Poor’s.  SUDAN: The African nation will delay the sale of $300
million of Islamic bonds until next year as it waits for global
markets to recover from the economic crisis, central bank
Governor  Sabir Mohamed Hassan  said. Sudan had previously planned
the bond sale before the end of this year.  KAZAKHSTAN: The former Soviet republic that last sold debt
overseas in 2000 is planning a debut Islamic bond sale this year
to broaden its investor base, said Aibek Bekzhanov, head of
Islamic instruments at the  Regional Financial Center of Almaty .  PHILIPPINES: State-owned Al-Amanah Islamic Bank is looking
to sell the nation’s first Islamic bonds, the lender’s President
Armando Samia said in July, without giving the size or timing.
The proposal is at a “very exploratory stage,” he said.  JORDAN: Jordan may sell $500 million of conventional or
Islamic bonds internationally to help the government with its
finances and take advantage of low borrowing costs, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said, without specifying the size
and timing of the sale. The country is rated Ba2 by Moody’s and
BB by S&P.  AHMED SALEM BUGSHAN GROUP : The Saudi Arabia-based company,
known as ASB, plans to raise as much as $100 million selling
five-year Islamic bonds to fund projects including a mega-steel
plant and a real-estate development, Mohamed H. Zakaria, senior
vice president of the group, said in an e-mailed statement. The
bond will offer a semi-annual return of 125 basis points more
than six-month Libor, the rate banks charge each other on loans.
ASB may ask Fitch Ratings or S&P to rate the debt, he said.  SAUDI ELECTRICITY CO.: The Arab world’s largest utility
company may issue global sukuk in 2011 after April’s sale of 7
billion riyals ($1.87 billion) of Islamic notes, according to
Executive Director of Treasury Fahad Alsudairy.  LUXEMBOURG: The country is considering selling Islamic
bonds, central bank Governor  Yves Mersch  said at a conference in
Bahrain without disclosing the size and the timing of the sale.  KENCANA PETROLEUM BHD.: The Malaysian oil and gas
contractor will sell 250 million ringgit of Islamic bonds this
year to help finance vessel purchases. State bond insurer
Danajamin Nasional Bhd. agreed to guarantee the notes, allowing
them to have the highest AAA rating for local bonds.  WAHA CAPITAL PJSC: The Abu Dhabi-based investment and
leasing company said its shareholders approved a plan to issue
mandatory convertible bonds or sukuk worth 1 billion dirhams to
strengthen its finances and support expansion plans.  VTB BANK OJSC: VTB Bank plans to sell Islamic bonds worth
about $200 million in the second half of the year, Reuters
reported in April, citing an unidentified person familiar with
the plan.  EMIRATES INTEGRATED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CO.: The Dubai-based
phone operator known as Du, may consider selling Islamic bonds
in coming years to fund expansion, Chief Executive Officer  Osman Sultan  said in April without disclosing the amount.  LAFARGE MALAYAN CEMENT BHD.: Malaysia’s largest cement
maker will sell as much as 350 million ringgit of Islamic bonds
under a seven-year program to fund expansion, the company said
March 26. The debt is rated AA2 by RAM Rating Services Bhd., its
third-highest ranking for long-term corporate debt instruments.  LEBANON: Lebanon may sell Islamic bonds in 2011, according
to the central bank in February. The country has more than $2
billion of dollar-denominated debt maturing this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It is rated B2 by Moody’s, five
levels below investment grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 