-- Abu Dhabi Shares Advance to April-High on Earnings; ADIB, First Gulf Gain
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-10-19T13:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/abu-dhabi-shares-advance-to-april-high-on-earnings-adib-first-gulf-gain.html
Abu Dhabi  shares  climbed for a fifth
day to the highest level since April as investors bet third-
quarter earnings will increase and after  First Gulf Bank PJSC ’s
recommendation was raised at EFG Hermes Holding.  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC , the United Arab Emirates’
second-biggest bank complying with Shariah banking principles,
climbed the most in more than a week after it said profit
advanced 31 percent.  First Gulf,  the U.A.E. lender controlled by
Abu Dhabi’s ruling family, jumped 2 percent after it was raised
to “buy” at EFG Hermes. The  ADX General Index  increased 1.1
percent to 2,807.77, the highest level since April 26, at the 2
p.m. close in Abu Dhabi.  Lenders “should be coming in line with expectations on
earnings,” said  Anastasios Dalgiannakis , a Dubai-based trader
at Mubasher Financial Services. “Banks have seen inflows from
foreign institutional investors with FGB opening higher this
morning on the back of an EFG upgrade.”  Abu Dhabi Islamic increased 3.9 percent to 3.18 dirhams.
Net income rose to 314.5 million dirhams from 239.5 million
dirhams a year earlier.  First Gulf Bank climbed the most since Oct. 10 to 15.60
dirhams. EFG Hermes assigned a price estimate of 22.50 dirhams
to the company with the  fourth-heaviest weighting  on Abu Dhabi’s
index.  Bank Reports  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC , the third-largest lender in
the U.A.E. by assets, may see third-quarter net income surge
more than eightfold to 287 million dirhams, according to the
median estimate of three analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC,  the U.A.E.’s second
largest lender, could see profit advance 13 percent to 1.04
billion dirhams, according to the mean estimate of three
analysts also in a Bloomberg survey. Abu Dhabi Commercial and
National Bank are expected to report earnings next week.  Dubai’s  DFM General Index  increased 0.3 percent and Qatar’s
 QE Index  advanced 0.5 percent. Kuwait’s  gauge  retreated 0.4
percent, while Bahrain’s  gauge  gained 0.3 percent. Oman’s  MSM30
Index  added 0.1 percent. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  decreased
0.2 percent and Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  fell 0.3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 