-- Macedonia Says It May Seek to Become First Country to Get IMF Credit Line
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2010-10-19T15:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/macedonia-says-it-may-seek-an-imf-credit-line-instead-of-selling-eurobonds.html
Macedonia  may seek to become the
first country to take a precautionary credit line from the
International Monetary Fund instead of selling Eurobonds, Deputy
Prime Minister  Zoran Stavreski  said.  The credit line, to finance the 2011 budget deficit and
debt servicing, may be “as large as 400 million euros ($553
million)” with the  Washington-based lender , Stavreski said in
an interview today while attending a financial conference in
Belgrade. A decision by the government will come “in the coming
weeks,” he said.  The worst financial crisis since the Great Depression is
hurting economies worldwide, with developing markets’ heavy
reliance on credit and trade making them more vulnerable to the
turmoil. The economy of Macedonia, a nation of 2 million people,
is recovering, Stavreski said, with gross domestic product
expanding as much as two percent this year and 3.5 percent in
2011 after contracting 0.7 percent last year.  “This is a serious offer we plan to consider in the next
two to three weeks,” Stavreski said, referring to a facility
which carries fewer condition than a stand-by arrangement and
“which the IMF offers to countries with sound economic
policies,” he said.  ‘Moderate Vulnerabilities’  The precautionary credit line, aimed at nations with the
IMF feels has “moderate vulnerabilities,” was created in
August to attract more countries to its contingency financing
program.  “The full amount would be approved immediately, and the
country is allowed to use all or part of it,” Stavreski said.
“No quantitative performance criteria, once you pass the
filter, no further visits” from the IMF. The loan comes with an
interest rate of 1.3 percent, he added.  The government will maintain budget discipline and the
shortfall this year and next will be 2.5 percent of GDP, he
said, before dropping to 2 percent in 2012.  Inflation will be between 2.5 percent and 3 percent in the
next two to three years with few consumer-price pressures in the
economy in the coming 12 to 18 months, he said.  The country’s fixed exchange rate “isn’t misaligned”
despite demands by some lobbying groups to weaken the currency,
he said. The currency is unofficially pegged to Europe’s common
currency at 61 per euro.  No ‘Devaluation’  “Devaluing the denar would only temporarily boost exports,
followed then by a negative impact,” Stavreski said. “What we
really need is to push with structural reforms. Changes in
exchange rate cannot be a substitute for structural reforms,
which we need.”  The former Yugoslav republic, which has been a European
Union candidate since 2005, should attract foreign direct
investment of about 280 million euros next year, rising to 400
million euros annually from 2012 to 2014, accounting for seven
percent to eight percent of GDP, Stavreski said.  “FDI won’t return to pre-crisis levels that fast,” and it
will take time for foreign direct investment to return to levels
of 10 percent of GDP, Stavreski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  