-- ADB Sells 10-Year Notes in First Yuan-Denominated Bond Offer in Hong Kong
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   S h e l l e y   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-19T02:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/adb-sells-10-year-notes-in-first-yuan-denominated-bond-offer-in-hong-kong.html
The Asian Development Bank raised
1.2 billion yuan ($181 million) from 10-year bonds in Hong Kong
as part of efforts to expand the continent’s capital markets.  The Manila-based lender sold the bonds at par with a 2.85
percent coupon, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It told
investors that it may price them to yield between 2.85 percent
and 2.9 percent, people familiar with the matter said yesterday.  The yuan notes are the first in Hong Kong by a top-rated
supranational borrower and investors bid for more than the debt
on offer, the ADB said in a statement today. Since most yuan
bonds sold in the city have maturities of five years or less,
the ADB’s notes “will act as a useful benchmark for other
borrowers,”  Bindu Lohani , vice president of finance and
administration, said in the statement.  Restrictions govern yuan bond sales by foreign companies in
mainland China five years after the ADB and the World Bank
Group’s International Finance Corp. unit sold the first so-
called Panda bonds. China allowed overseas firms to issue yuan-
denominated notes in Hong Kong in February, and McDonald’s Corp.
sold 200 million yuan of 3 percent notes in August, Bloomberg
data show.  The 2.85 percent coupon the ADB is paying in Hong Kong is
lower than the 3.34 percent it paid in October 2005 when it
issued 1 billion yuan of 10-year Panda bonds. Its other
outstanding Panda notes, sold in December, pay a 4.2 percent
coupon and mature in 2019, the data show.  Panda bonds are yuan-denominated securities sold by non-
Chinese organizations and traded in China’s domestic market.  Long-Dated Paper  “This transaction reflects strong demand for long-dated
renminbi assets,” said  Daniel Mamadou , co-head of Asia debt
capital markets at Deutsche Bank AG, which helped manage the
sale with Bank of China Ltd.  The ADB, established in 1966, aims to reduce poverty in
Asia-Pacific, according to its website. Last year it approved
$16.1 billion of loans, grants, guarantees, trade finance,
equity investments and technical assistance projects.  Money raised from the yuan bonds will be used to finance
projects in China including clean energy ventures, according to
today’s statement. The bank plans to raise about $15 billion
from international capital markets this year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net 
Shelley Smith in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  