-- Madoff Judge Defers Decision on Allowing Feeder-Fund Investors' Claims
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2010-10-19T17:22:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/madoff-judge-defers-decision-on-allowing-feeder-fund-investors-claims.html
The judge overseeing the liquidation
of  Bernard L. Madoff ’s investment firm deferred a ruling on
whether investors who lost money in so-called feeder funds will
receive payments from the bankruptcy court trustee.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in New York today said
he will rule later on the request by trustee  Irving Picard  to
deny the claims of investors who weren’t direct customers of
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, the firm at the
center of the world’s largest Ponzi scheme.  “It really comes down to a narrow issue: Who’s a customer
and who’s entitled to the benefits?” Lifland said today after
hearing arguments from both sides. “The statute is largely
formulaic.”  Picard  said in December the feeder-fund claims were
rejected because they weren’t from direct Madoff accounts. The
trustee filed a motion in June to obtain the judge’s approval of
that action and to allow objectors to be heard.  Investors in 19 accounts with 16 feeder funds were denied
reimbursement of their claims, the trustee said in the motion.
The feeder funds included Fairfield Greenwich Group, J.  Ezra Merkin ’s Gabriel Capital Corp. and Kingate Global Fund.  “The only customers that were on the books of the debtor
were the 16 feeder funds,”  David Sheehan , the lawyer for the
trustee, said in court today. “They are the customers.”  Lawyers representing some of the approximately 1,700
objectors to the motion argued that their clients met the law’s
definition of a customer.  Defining Customer  “The trustee is trying to obtain from Bernard Madoff
Investment Securities the customers’ property,” said  Richard Cirillo , a lawyer representing three investors outside the U.S.
whose money went from the Fairfield Sentry feeder fund to
Madoff. “This motion prevents the customers who originated the
property from being customers.”  Sheehan said that after litigation involving the feeder
funds has been resolved, the investors in those accounts may
receive distributions.  An initial review showed that 17 of the 19 feeder accounts
were “net losers,” according to court papers.  The  Securities Investor Protection Corp. , the agency
overseeing the distribution of funds, said last month in a
letter to the U.S. Congress that claims by victims of Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme exceeded the money available to reimburse them.  Madoff, 72, was arrested in December 2008 and charged with
securities fraud. He pleaded guilty in March 2009 and is serving
a 150-year prison sentence.  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Don Jeffrey  in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 