-- Thai Companies Should Expand Overseas as Era of Cheap Baht Ends, Korn Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2010-10-19T03:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/thai-companies-should-expand-overseas-as-era-of-cheap-baht-ends-korn-says.html
Thai companies should set up
manufacturing bases overseas because the period when they sold
goods cheaply on the back of a weak currency is over, Finance
Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said.  The baht’s 82 percent drop in 1997 during the financial
crisis prompted Thailand’s exports as a percentage of gross
domestic product to increase to a peak of 70 percent last year
from 35 percent, he said. The currency gained beyond 30 against
the dollar for the first time since 1997 earlier this month.  “We became manufacturers of goods to the rest of the world
using our relatively cheap currency,” Korn said in a speech in
Bangkok last night. “That era is over and it’s over rather
quickly, so very quick restructuring and rethinking needs to
take place.”  Developing nations have been selling their own currencies
and taxing global investors to curb appreciation. The Bank of
Thailand may refrain from a third straight increase in rates
tomorrow, as Asian central banks widen efforts to stem currency
gains that threaten exporters.  If Thai companies “don’t become aggressive in making
overseas investment within our near neighboring countries, we
will be losing out on a major opportunity that is given to us,”
Korn said. “It is almost inevitable that the U.S. dollar will
continue to weaken.”  The baht was little changed at 29.91 per dollar as of 10:18
a.m. local time. It has gained 11.3 percent this year, the best
performer among Asia’s 10 most traded currencies outside Japan.
The  SET Index  had advanced 34 percent this year, the third-best
performer among Asia’s 15 biggest markets.  Italian-Thai Development Pcl , Thailand’s biggest contractor,
is close to signing an almost $12 billion deal to build a deep-
sea port in Myanmar, Nijaporn Charanachitta, a senior executive
vice president, said Oct. 7.  “The ministry of finance has already been tasked to look
at more measures needed to help incentivize and subsidize Thai
companies into making these industry investments,” Korn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  