-- Taiwan's Central Bank Says Will Step in Market If Currency `Overshoots'
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2010-10-19T07:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/taiwan-s-central-bank-says-will-step-in-market-if-currency-overshoots-.html
Taiwan’s central bank said it will
step into the foreign-exchange market when the local dollar
“overshoots,” in an echo of concerns across emerging nations
that surging currencies threaten exports and financial stability.  “The Taiwan dollar exchange rate is in principle
determined by the market, but if irregular factors, such as
short-term, big-volume fund flows and seasonal issues, cause the
currency to overshoot and lead to disorder, the central bank
will maintain order in the foreign-exchange market,” Governor
 Perng Fai-nan  said in a report released today in Taipei ahead of
a parliamentary audit.  Emerging economies have countered criticism that they are
restraining their currencies to aid exports by complaining that
near-zero U.S. interest rates are encouraging investors to
target their markets. Capital flooding into Asia could lead to
excessive exchange-rate moves, asset bubbles and financial
instability,  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the head of the
International Monetary Fund, said in Shanghai yesterday.  “Hot money” is the common factor moving currencies of
emerging markets and the central bank will monitor foreign-
investor flows into deposit accounts,  Perng said Sept. 30.  The Taiwan dollar fell 0.1 percent to NT$30.87 against its
U.S. counterpart as of 2:55 p.m. local time today, according to
Taipei Forex Inc. The currency has risen 2.7 percent in the past
month.  The local dollar “isn’t cheap” and currency appreciation
can cause companies to shift factories overseas, central bank
researcher Lee Jung-chien wrote in an article posted on the
monetary authority’s website today.  Taiwan raised  borrowing costs  in September for the second
time this year and said it will try to prevent real-estate
speculation after a jump in home prices fueled concern the
island’s economic recovery may stoke a property bubble.  Housing market transaction volumes have declined since June,
Perng said in today’s statement.  The central bank has used “moral suasion” on 16
commercial lenders to ensure rules are followed for loans using
vacant land as collateral, and mortgage curbs introduced in June
are yielding results, the governor also said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  