-- DAX Benchmark Declines; Infineon, Porsche Fall as Deutsche Bank Increases
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-19T16:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/aixtron-e-on-kloeckner-siemens-stroer-may-move-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks fell for the first day
in five as Infineon Technologies AG and  Porsche SE  sank and
China unexpectedly raised its one-year lending and deposit rates
by 25 basis points.  Infineon slid 1.9 percent as the Financial Times
Deutschland reported that Europe’s largest chipmaker may amend
the amount of deferred taxes on its balance sheet for its last
two fiscal years. Porsche dropped 8.7 percent as Volkswagen AG
said it may put on hold its merger with the sports-car maker.
 ThyssenKrupp AG  and Salzgitter AG, the country’s largest
steelmakers, followed metal prices lower.  The benchmark  DAX Index  fell 0.4 percent to 6,490.69 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The measure advanced 3.2 percent
last week as investors speculated that the U.S. Federal Reserve
will announce plans to stimulate economic growth at its November
meeting. The broader  HDAX Index  also lost 0.4 percent today.  “The news flow from China acted as a sell trigger on top
of some profit-taking after the recent gains,” said  Thomas Laschetti , a trader at Tullett Prebon Ltd. in London.  China’s central bank raised its one-year lending and
deposit rates by 25 basis points, according to a statement
posted on the People’s Bank of China’s website. The increases
are effective from tomorrow.  German Investor Confidence  Earlier today, a report showed that  German investor
confidence  fell to a 21-month low in October as weaker global
growth and a stronger euro dimmed the export outlook for
Europe’s largest economy.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict developments six months ahead, dropped for a sixth
month, to minus 7.2 from minus 4.3 in September.  The shares of chipmaker Infineon dropped 1.9 percent to
5.50 euros. According to the Financial Times Deutschland, the
German financial reporting enforcement panel considers that
Infineon’s accounting of its deferred taxes is too
“optimistic.” Chief Executive Officer  Peter Bauer  may accept
the panel’s ruling to avoid the case going to court, the
newspaper said.  Aixtron AG , the maker of equipment used to produce LED
screens, dropped 3.6 percent to 21.61 euros. Technology shares
declined across Europe after Apple Inc. forecast earnings that
missed analyst estimates.  Porsche’s preference shares dropped 8.7 percent to 38.97
euros. Volkswagen may put on hold its merger with Porsche, which
was due to take place in 2011, until the maker of the 911 sports
car resolves a lawsuit in the U.S., VW Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Winterkorn  said.  Daimler AG , the world’s second-biggest maker of luxury
cars, fell 1.5 percent to 47.04 euros.  ThyssenKrupp, Salzgitter  ThyssenKrupp and  Salzgitter  lost 1.1 percent to 26.13 euros
and 2.1 percent to 52.87 euros, respectively. Metal prices
dropped as the dollar strengthened after China unexpectedly
raised its lending rate, curbing demand for metal as an
alternative investment.  Metro AG  lost 2 percent to 48.14 euros. Macquarie Group
Ltd. cut its recommendation on Germany’s largest retailer to
“neutral” from “outperform.”  Praktiker, Deutz Fall  Praktiker AG  sank 2.1 percent to 6.59 euros. DZ Bank AG
downgraded Germany’s second-biggest home-improvement retailer to
“sell” from “buy.” The brokerage said in a note that it
expects “a number of disappointments on the sales side” when
the company reports its financial results on Oct. 27.  Deutz AG  shed 1.5 percent to 5.87 euros. Berenberg Bank
downgraded the engine maker to “hold” from “buy” because the
shares have an “upside of only 12 percent” based on the
brokerage’s estimate of their value.  HeidelbergCement AG, the world’s third-largest cement
maker, advanced 2.2 percent to 35.79 euros. Builders in the U.S.
began work on more homes in September than estimated, a sign
that the real estate market is stabilizing at depressed levels.  Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s largest lender, rose 1.8
percent to 42.20 euros as a gauge of European banks was the best
performing of 19 industries on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
 Commerzbank , Germany’s second-biggest bank, gained 1.1 percent
to 6.56 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 