-- Malaysia to Get Greater Access to India for Palm Oil, Cocoa in Trade Pact
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2010-10-19T07:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/malaysia-to-get-greater-access-to-india-for-palm-oil-cocoa-in-trade-pact.html
Malaysia said it expects to conclude
talks with India on a free-trade agreement next week that should
see it obtain greater access for products including cocoa and
palm oil as well as more stringent anti-dumping provisions.  “Everything has been agreed,” Malaysia’s International
Trade & Industry Minister  Mustapa Mohamed  told reporters in
Kuala Lumpur today. “India is a big market, growing fast.”  Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy is trying to expand
the breadth and depth of its exports after recovering from its
first recession in a decade. The two countries aim to complete
negotiations during a visit to Malaysia by Indian Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh , Mustapa said.  The governments have already completed seven rounds of
talks since February 2008, the Malaysian trade ministry said,
and the agreement will be ready for implementation on July 1,
2011, according to Mustapa.  The so-called Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement
will cover areas including services, investment, customs and
trade, the ministry said in a statement. The proposed exclusion
lists are shorter than an earlier agreement between India and
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or Asean, of which
Malaysia is a member.  India has exempted 1,225 items from tariff reductions under
the Malaysian pact, compared with 1,298 under its Asean deal,
according to the statement. Malaysia has exempted 838 items,
compared with 898 under the earlier Asean agreement.  The proposed deal would give Malaysia concessions for palm
oil and related products, with tariffs on refined palm oil sold
to India reaching 45 percent by the end of 2018, one year
earlier than the Asean agreement, the ministry said. It also
obtained improved market access for cocoa and related products
as well as textiles and clothing, according to the statement.
These were excluded from the Asean deal, Malaysia said.  The agreement also contains “more stringent” anti-dumping
provisions compared with India’s Asean deal, the trade ministry
said. “This will benefit Malaysian exporters,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Manirajan Ramasamy  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  