-- American Indians to Get $680 Million in 29-Year-Old Discrimination Case
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2010-10-19T21:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/american-indians-to-get-680-million-in-29-year-old-discrimination-case.html
The U.S. Department of Agriculture
agreed to pay $680 million to settle claims by American Indians
who said they were discriminated against in federal farm-loan
programs dating back to 1981.  The settlement includes an additional $80 million of debt
forgiveness and $20 million in administrative fees, Agriculture
Secretary  Tom Vilsack  said today in a conference call with
reporters. The  settlement  does not require congressional
spending authorization, Vilsack said.  The USDA has faced claims from black, women and Hispanic
farmers for past racial discrimination. The largest lawsuit,
Pigford v. Glickman, was filed by black farmers and led to a
proposed $1.25 billion settlement in February which required
congressional funding that has yet to be approved. This case,
Keepseagle v. Vilsack, was originally filed in 1999.  “With today’s agreement, we take an important step forward
in remedying USDA’s unfortunate civil rights history,”
President  Barack Obama  said in an e-mailed statement. He called
on Congress to implement the settlement in the Pigford case and
others.  Non-Judicial Process  The settlement, which is structured similarly to that for
black farmers, establishes a non-judicial process to settle
claims. Growers who establish their credit-related claims can
receive as much as $50,000.  A separate track for persons who have stronger evidence of
economic losses caused by discrimination may provide actual
damages of as much as $250,000. The awards may be reduced based
on the number of claims, the USDA said. That number isn’t known,
Vilsack said.  USDA’s civil rights record, the subject of lawsuits since
the 1990s, gained greater national prominence last summer when
Vilsack forced the resignation of department employee  Shirley Sherrod  after an edited video clip released by the website
biggovernment.com left the impression that she didn’t fully help
a white farmer she met with in 1986.  Vilsack and Obama apologized for the firing after the full
video, which showed that she successfully helped the man save
his farm, and Vilsack offered Sherrod either her old job back or
a new job at USDA. Sherrod declined, saying the time wasn’t
right for her return.  Vilsack today said the department is committed to remedying
its past injustices. “USDA has zero tolerance for any form of
discrimination,” he said.  The original lawsuit is Keepseagle v. Vilsack, Civil Action
No. 99-3119, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington.) The settlement is subject to court approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Steve Stroth
at   abjerga@bloomberg.net . 