-- AMR Said to Hire Evercore, Bain to Study American Eagle Options
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2010-10-19T20:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/amr-said-to-hire-evercore-bain-to-study-options-for-american-eagle-unit.html
American Airlines  parent AMR Corp.
hired investment bank  Evercore Partners Inc.  and consultant Bain
& Co. to examine options for its American Eagle regional unit,
two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Eagle probably will be spun off to AMR  shareholders  because
of a lack of potential buyers, although a sale still is
possible, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private. The evaluation for Fort Worth,
Texas-based  AMR  may take more than six months, this person said.  A separation of Eagle would allow American to seek lower-
cost ways to serve regional routes and enable Eagle to compete
for contracts with other airlines. AMR said June 10 it would
study divesting Eagle, reviving an earlier review of a sale that
ended with the unit being taken off the market in July 2008.  “The options are pretty limited at this point” to find a
buyer, said  Hunter Keay , a Stifel Nicolaus & Co. analyst. “I
don’t know who that would be. AMR is incentivized to get rid of
Eagle, because it’s a drag on their cost structure. A
divestiture would fit well in their turnaround plan.”  An Evercore spokesman declined to comment, and a spokesman
at Boston-based Bain wasn’t immediately available.  “We have and will continue to evaluate any number of
potential opportunities but do not intend to publicize
specifics,”  Roger Frizzell , an AMR spokesman, said in a
statement. “We will announce any decisions that are made if and
when appropriate.”  Valuing Eagle  AMR doesn’t break out complete  financial data  on Eagle,
such as debt or whether the unit is profitable. Revenue for
American’s regional operations rose 13 percent in 2010’s first
half to $1.1 billion. Eagle, which operated 281 aircraft as of
July, has about 1,500 daily departures.  “In a spinoff, it’s difficult to justify too much value
there unless you have a long-term guarantee of their ability to
provide regional lift for American for an extended period of
time,” said Keay, who advises  buying AMR .  AMR rose 14 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $6.52 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The  shares  have
fallen 16 percent this year. AMR may report a third-quarter
 profit  tomorrow of $119 million, the average of nine analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, after seven straight losses.  Regional Consolidation  A possible sale of Eagle would follow three regional-
airline deals since July 1.  SkyWest Inc.  is buying ExpressJet
Holdings Inc. in a transaction valued at about $133 million when
it was unveiled in August.  Pinnacle Airlines Corp.  is acquiring
Delta Air Lines Inc.’s Mesaba for $62 million, while Trans
States Holdings Inc. will pay $20.5 million for Delta’s Compass.  Evercore, the New York-based advisory boutique founded by
 Roger Altman , hired banker  George Ackert  from Merrill Lynch &
Co. last year to focus on transportation and infrastructure
deals. Ackert advised Delta on its 2008 purchase of Northwest
Airlines Corp.  Bain is working with  United Continental Holdings Inc. ’s
Continental and United airlines as they merge operations and
helped  Delta’s  integration with Northwest.  AMR also would consider a private-equity infusion or a
leveraged buyout for Eagle,  Dan Garton , Eagle chief executive
officer, said in a June interview.  About 77 percent of Eagle’s  planes  have 50 or fewer seats,
a size that’s fallen out of favor because of operating costs and
airlines’ demand for using larger, more-comfortable aircraft on
regional routes to win more business fliers. Eagle can’t expand
its fleet of jets with 70 or more seats because of a limit set
in American’s pilot contract.  “The value of AMR Eagle is ultimately tied to management’s
ability to extract concessions from mainline pilots that permit
the carrier to fly larger 75- and 90-seat jets,” said  Dan McKenzie , a Hudson Securities analyst in Chicago who rates AMR
as “neutral.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 