-- Wayne Rooney Wants to Leave Manchester United, Coach Alex Ferguson Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-10-19T16:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/manchester-united-s-rooney-wants-to-leave-soccer-club-coach-ferguson-says.html
Manchester United coach  Alex Ferguson  said forward  Wayne Rooney  told him he wants to leave
the 18-time English soccer champion.  “The player says he’s adamant, he wants to leave,”
Ferguson said at a news conference. “We have to deal with the
next part of that, as best we can. I can do no more than what
we’ve said and done at the moment.”  Rooney has struggled this season, scoring just one goal,
after injuries and media reports about his personal life limited
his playing time. He’s had disagreements with Ferguson, and
failed to score at this year’s World Cup, when England crashed
out against Germany in the round of 16.  The forward was taken off in the 60th minute in the last
game he started, against Bolton Sept. 26, and sat out the next
two games because Ferguson said he was injured.  Rooney contradicted his manager after playing in England’s
0-0 draw with Montenegro on Oct. 13, saying he “didn’t know”
why Ferguson thought he was hurt. The coach said he wanted to
rest the striker, who hasn’t scored for United in open play
since March, when he got the club’s goal in a 2-1 Champions
League loss to Bayern Munich.  Rooney came on as a substitute in a home draw with West
Brom three days ago as United lost a 2-0 lead.  ‘Proper Professional’  The 24-year-old has been under media scrutiny because of
allegations about his personal life. Ferguson left him out of a
Sept. 11 game at former club Everton rather than face potential
fan abuse.  “We had a discussion and I said the only thing I want from
you Wayne is to honor and respect the club’s position and its
traditions and behave as a proper professional,” Ferguson said
today.  Rooney left his boyhood team Everton to join United for 27
million pounds ($42 million) in 2004. He scored a hat trick
against Feberbahce in the Champions League in his first game for
the new club, making him the first United player in 99 years to
get three goals in his debut.  Rooney was hurt in practice this morning and won’t play in
the Champions League match tomorrow against Bursaspor of Turkey.
He’s scored once this season for the club, a penalty in a 3-0
defeat of West Ham in August, and has 132 goals in 289
appearances.  The Daily Mirror reported today that Manchester City is
ready to put together a 100 million-pound package for Rooney.
City would pay 50 million pounds as a transfer fee and pay him
another 50 million in wages over four years.  Madrid Report  The Sun said yesterday that Real Madrid will offer France
national team player  Karim Benzema  and money in a 50 million-
pound transaction. United will keep an offer on the table for
the player, Ferguson said.  “We want to keep the door open for him, because he’s such
a good player,” Ferguson said. “We’ve done nothing but help
him since he’s joined this club.”  Ferguson said United Chief Executive Officer  David Gill 
“was prepared to offer him a contract that would be difficult
to match elsewhere.”  The loss of Rooney would hurt United’s attempt to win a
record 19th English title after tying Liverpool’s top mark two
seasons ago. United is in fourth place in the English Premier
League, tied on points with Arsenal and Tottenham, but behind on
goal difference to the Gunners. Chelsea and Manchester City
occupy the top two spots.  He wouldn’t be the first major player to leave United in
recent years.  Ronaldo, Tevez  Cristiano Ronaldo  forced Ferguson to sell him to Real
Madrid after the 2008-09 season, when United also reached the
Champions League final where it lost to Barcelona. Real paid 80
million pounds for the player.  Carlos Tevez  signed with Manchester City prior to last
season after his contract with United expired and Ferguson
didn’t resign him. The Argentine leads the Premier League with
seven goals this season.  United is on top of Group C of the Champions League after
getting four points from two matches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  