-- Manchester City Ready to Pay $159 Million for Wayne Rooney: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2010-10-19T09:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/manchester-city-ready-to-pay-159-million-for-wayne-rooney-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  City May Swoop  Manchester City is ready to put together a 100 million-
pound ($159 million) package to sign  Wayne Rooney  from
Manchester United, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  City would pay 50 million pounds as a transfer fee for the
England striker and pay him another 50 million in wages over
four years.  Rooney has told United he won’t sign a new contract after a
bust-up with coach  Alex Ferguson , the Mirror added.  Rooney and Ferguson haven’t spoken to each other for a
month since they clashed after newspaper reports on the player’s
private life,  the Sun  reported. He’s told friends he might join
City, the paper added.  United is lining up Liverpool’s  Fernando Torres  as Rooney’s
replacement, according to the  Daily Star .  Mowbray for Boro?  Former Middlesbrough players  Tony Mowbray  and Paul Ince are
among the candidates to replace  Gordon Strachan  as manager of
the club,  the Mirror  reported.  Strachan left “without a penny” of the 1.5 million pounds
left on his contract as he didn’t seek compensation, the
newspaper said.  England Bid Attacked  The leader of Russia’s bid to stage the 2018 World Cup made
an attack on England, a rival to host the event,  the Guardian 
reported.  In an interview with Russian newspaper Sport Express,
 Alexei Sorokin  criticized crime rates in London and alcohol
consumption among the country’s young people, the Guardian
added.  His comments on a competing bidder may break ruling body
FIFA’s rules, the English newspaper said.  Liverpool Target  Liverpool may bid 6 million pounds for Zenit St. Petersburg
striker Alexander Kerzhakov, the  Daily Mail reported .  Reds scouts watched the 27-year-old score for Russia
against Ireland last week, the Mail added. He’s also had spells
at Sevilla and Dynamo Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 