-- Land Securities, Canary Wharf to Build `Walkie-Talkie' in City of London
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-10-19T13:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/land-securities-canary-wharf-to-build-walkie-talkie-in-city-of-london.html
Land Securities Group Plc  and Canary
Wharf Group Plc formed a venture to build the “ Walkie-Talkie ”
tower in London, taking advantage of a shortage of top-quality
office space in the city’s main financial district.  The 37-story skyscraper in the City of London will cost 500
million pounds ($791 million) to develop and is scheduled to be
completed in the second quarter of 2014, the two London-based
companies said in separate statements today.  “We see this transaction as a win-win situation for both
Land Securities and Canary Wharf Group,”  Harm Meijer , a London-
based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a note to
investors today.  Land Securities, the largest U.K. real estate investment
trust, said in May that it was looking for a partner for the
690,000 square-foot (64,100 square-meter) tower, known as the
Walkie-Talkie because of its shape, to reduce risk because no
tenants had agreed to rent space. The project was put on hold in
May 2008, before the start of the global financial crisis.  Songbird Estates Plc, which owns 69 percent of Canary Wharf
Group, was unchanged at 143 pence at 2:15 p.m. in London
trading. Land Securities gained 2.5 pence, or 0.4 percent, to
675.5 pence.  Land Securities sold the site on Fenchurch Street to the
venture for 90.2 million pounds, the company said.  London’s Docklands  The two companies will be joint developers. Canary Wharf
Group, which controls the 97-acre (39-hectare) Canary Wharf
business estate in London’s Docklands, will act as construction
manager. Land Securities will take the lead on leasing space,
the statements said.  “The transaction allows us to take forward other projects
within our substantial development pipeline in London so that we
offer a range of building types and sizes in a range of
locations across the capital,”  Robert Noel , managing director
of Land Securities’ London portfolio, said in the statement.  The Walkie-Talkie will be Canary Wharf’s second development
in the City of London. The company was development manager of a
tower in Drapers Gardens, a 290,000 square-foot office block
that’s been leased by BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest money
manager. Canary Wharf sold its 20 percent stake in August when
the building was bought by Evans Randall Ltd., co-owner of the
tower known as the Gherkin.  Estimated Profit  The Walkie-Talkie will generate a development profit of 100
million pounds for the investors, based on rents of 60 pounds a
square foot, Meijer said. The venture will give Land Securities
capacity for other developments, while providing Canary Wharf
with “attractive diversification” outside Docklands, he said.  Songbird  said 35 percent of the project will be sold to
three of its investors -- Qatar Holding LLC,  China Investment
Corp.  and Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investing’s Special
Situations Fund. Canary Wharf Group will keep a 15 percent
stake, Songbird said in its statement.  British Land Co. , the U.K’s second-largest REIT, is
considering reviving plans for a tower in the district in a
venture with the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, Estates
Gazette said today. British Land spokesman Gordon Simpson
declined to comment.  The proposed building on Leadenhall Street, nicknamed the
Cheesegrater, was mothballed by British Land in August 2008 as
demand for space fell.  The Canadian fund, the country’s second-largest public
pension manager, and Hammerson Plc bought another office
building in the district for 183 million pounds in August. They
teamed up to buy a shopping mall in Scotland in December for 297
million pounds.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Peter Woodifield  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 