-- Steve Jobs Keeping Apple Cash `Powder Dry' for Future Bets
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2010-10-20T00:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/apple-ceo-steve-jobs-keeping-cash-powder-dry-for-future-bets.html
Apple Inc.  fell the most in two
months on the Nasdaq after forecasting shrinking gross margins
and profit that missed some analysts’ estimates, indicating that
the company is making less from each iPhone and iPad it sells.  Apple dropped $8.51, or 2.7 percent, to $309.49 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . Apple predicted
profit of $4.80 a share for this quarter, short of the $5.03
average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg before the
announcement.  The forecast, coupled with a drop in new contracts reported
by International Business Machines Corp., pushed down technology
stocks. While Apple’s profit climbed to a record last quarter,
competition from Google Inc. and  Research In Motion Ltd. 
threatens to squeeze margins. The iPad tablet, released this
year, also didn’t sell as well as analysts had estimated.  “Everyone is closing in and it’s a huge question of how
they are going to respond,” said  Michael Obuchowski , chief
investment officer of First Empire Asset Management, which holds
Apple shares. “I’m really worried about Apple; I’m not
convinced that I’m going to hold Apple two years from now.”  Profit Margin  Gross margin , the percentage of sales left after deducting
production costs, will be about 36 percent, compared with 36.9
percent last quarter and 41.8 percent a year before that, Chief
Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  said on a conference call.  Earnings helped push up cash and investments to more than
$50 billion, giving Apple the technology industry’s biggest war
chest for acquisitions, said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at
Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco. Apple may eventually make a
large acquisition, possibly for a company such as  Akamai
Technologies Inc. , which produces technology for distributing
media content on the Web, he said.  “They are in a position to outbid everybody if they view
the asset as valuable enough,” said Marshall, who recommends
 buying  Apple shares and doesn’t own any himself.  Jeff Young , a spokesman for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Akamai, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  “We’d like to continue to keep our powder dry,” said
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs , after joining an earnings
conference call for the first time in two years, when asked
whether Cupertino, California-based Apple would use the cash for
a stock buyback or dividend. “We strongly believe that one or
more very strategic opportunities may come along.”  Open Versus Closed  He spoke after Apple reported that  fourth-quarter profit 
rose 70 percent to $4.31 billion, or 4.64 a share, on sales of
$20.3 billion.  Jobs, 55, dismissed the threat of rivals. Apple’s approach
of designing the software and hardware for its devices results
in a better user experience, he said. Google, meanwhile, has
touted its open software standard, giving Android free to
handset makers such as  Motorola Inc.  and HTC Corp. That just
creates a “commodity” experience, Jobs said.  “We are very committed to the integrated approach, no
matter how many times Google tries to characterize it as
closed,” Jobs said. He said Apple is outselling RIM, which
makes the BlackBerry, and he doesn’t “see them catching up with
us in the foreseeable future.”  Marisa Conway , a spokeswoman for Waterloo, Ontario-based
RIM, declined to comment.  Jane Penner , a spokeswoman for Google
in Mountain View, California, didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Past $300  Apple shares, up 47 percent this year, surpassed $300 last
week. The company accounts for 21 percent of the  Nasdaq 100
Index .  Apple sold 4.19 million iPad tablet computers last quarter,
fewer than the 4.5 million predicted by  Gene Munster , an analyst
at Piper Jaffray Cos. in Minneapolis. Yesterday’s results also
included the first full quarter of sales for the iPhone 4,
released in June. Apple sold 14.1 million iPhones and 3.89
million Macintosh computers. Munster estimated that Apple would
sell 11 million iPhones.  Chris Whitmore , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in San
Francisco, said that concerns about declining profit margins are
overblown. By aggressively pricing its devices, the company is
gaining more share from competitors. Munster said the drop in
the stock price creates a buying opportunity for investors.  Manufacturing Costs  Revenue this quarter will be about $23 billion, Apple said.
Analysts had predicted sales of $22.3 billion.  Apple may get a sales boost by expanding the availability
of the iPhone in the U.S. Verizon Wireless may begin selling it
in January, two people familiar with the matter said in June.  Jobs also said he’s been surprised by iPad purchases by
business customers.  “We haven’t pushed it real hard in business,” Jobs said.
“The more time that passes, the more I am convinced that we’ve
got a tiger by the tail.”  Still, the cost of making the iPhone may be increasing,
said  Andy Hargreaves , an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities in
Portland, Oregon. The device accounts for 43 percent of Apple’s
revenue.  “We saw what we think is a pretty remarkable increase in
iPhone costs,” and that’s fueled concern about margins,
Hargreaves said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  Supply shortages also likely held back sales of both the
iPhone and iPad, Munster said.  Competition also is increasing. The Android operating
system was the most popular smartphone software in the U.S. in
the second quarter, according to  Gartner Inc.   Samsung Electronics Co., HTC, Motorola and Dell Inc. are
among the companies using Android in tablet computers to rival
the iPad.  Hewlett-Packard Co. , the largest computer maker, also
is developing a tablet computer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 