-- Marchionne Makes Final Push to Fix Alfa Romeo as VW Circles
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2010-10-20T09:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/marchionne-makes-final-push-to-fix-alfa-romeo-as-volkswagen-circles-unit.html
Fiat SpA  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne , rejecting overtures from Volkswagen AG, says
Alfa Romeo isn’t for sale. That means at least two more years of
depressed profit for the Italian company’s shareholders.  Fiat is currently losing about 300 million euros ($416
million) annually on the brand, estimates  Max Warburton , a
Sanford C. Bernstein analyst in London. Fiat will post earnings
before interest and taxes this year of 1.77 billion euros,
boosted by Maserati and Ferrari sales, he forecasts.  Marchionne, who says he needs to sell 300,000 Alfa Romeos a
year for the brand to turn a profit, doesn’t expect to reach
that goal until 2013.  Alfa Romeo , which made its first model in
1910 and was withdrawn from the U.S. in 1995, is Fiat’s only
entry in the volume section of the luxury auto market.  “Alfa Romeo is the only possibility for Marchionne to
compete in the high-price segment,” said  Marco Santino , a
consultant in Rome at A.T. Kearney, which has worked for Fiat on
supply-chain operations. “It’s a long-term project. In the
short run, he has no chance of meeting the targets.”   Volkswagen , Europe’s largest carmaker, is interested in
buying Alfa Romeo, supervisory board Chairman  Ferdinand Piech 
said last month. Marchionne responded by saying he will rebuild
the brand himself by developing new models and reentering the
U.S. His plan will be expensive, shareholders said.  Earnings Estimates  “Fiat has to invest 2 billion euros to revamp Alfa,” said
 Wolfram Mrowetz , who oversees 200 million euros in investments
as head of Alisei SIM in Milan, including Fiat shares. “I doubt
Marchionne can wait for many years before deciding to sell.”  Fiat, which is spinning off its industrial operations to
focus on automaking, will probably say tomorrow that third-
quarter net income doubled to 42.3 million euros on demand for
Iveco trucks, according to the average  estimate  of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales may have risen 5.9 percent to 12.8
billion euros, according to the average of 16 analysts.  Fiat rose as much as 13 cents, or 1.1 percent, to 11.77
euros and was up 0.6 percent as of 11:51 a.m. in Milan. The
stock has advanced 14 percent this year, valuing the Turin-based
automaker at 14 billion euros. That compares with a 17 percent
gain in PSA Peugeot Citroen, a 13 percent increase in Renault SA
and a 38 percent advance in Volkswagen.  Marchionne aims to raise Alfa Romeo  sales  fivefold to
500,000 in 2014 by reintroducing the unit to the U.S. in late
2012 with the Giulia sedan and station wagon as well as a sport-
utility vehicle it’s building with Chrysler Group LLC, of which
Fiat owns 20 percent. Fiat, which doesn’t disclose Alfa Romeo’s
earnings, declined to discuss the unit’s finances.  U.S. Comeback  The maker of the Duetto Spider driven by  Dustin Hoffman  in
the film “The Graduate” abandoned North America 15 years ago
after sales in the region plunged to 565 cars. The CEO targets
2014 U.S. deliveries of 85,000.  “Marchionne may get a higher price from VW for Alfa in a
couple of years after the new models hit a less depressed
European market and enter the U.S.,” said  Emanuele Oggioni , who
manages 650 million euros, including Fiat and VW shares, at
Saint George Capital Management in Lugano, Switzerland.  The  brand , whose nine-month European deliveries fell 7
percent to 80,000 cars, could be worth as much as 4 billion
euros if it reaches its 2014 goal, said Warburton, who first
predicted VW’s interest in December 2009.  “Although that’s a big if, with few of Fiat’s competitors
regarding the volume target as realistic,” Warburton said.
“Ultimately the price will be driven by VW’s desire, not cold
financial logic.”  Pandas to Ferraris  Fiat, which outbid  Ford Motor Co.  in 1986 to buy the unit
from the Italian government, aims to position Alfa Romeo between
the namesake brand offering Puntos and Pandas for as little as
9,200 euros and the Ferrari and Maserati divisions selling
supercars costing as much as 400,000 euros.  Alfa Romeo plans to double deliveries in 2011 on demand for
the Giulietta introduced this year at a base price of 20,300
euros. Fiat received 30,000 orders for the hatchback, which was
unveiled in Geneva in March, through the end of September.  Marchionne has enlisted movie star  Uma Thurman  to revive
the unit. The actress, featured in Giulietta advertisements, is
luring women to the typically masculine brand.  One-quarter of Giulietta purchasers are women, who usually
represent about 7 percent of buyers, said Roberto Ferrari,
chairman of Alfa Romeo’s Italian dealers association, referring
to sales at his dealership outside Milan. Alfa Romeo sales will
likely increase more than 25 percent in Italy in 2011, he said.  ‘Passion & Elegance’  “I fell in love with Giulietta as soon as I saw the car”
said Vittoria Condemi, 31, a graphic designer in Milan, who
bought a Giulietta 1.4 Distinctive. “It’s a car with passion
and elegance.”  Fiat in January appointed  Harald Wester , the automaker’s
technology chief and CEO of the Maserati and Abarth brands, to
remake Alfa Romeo. Among new vehicles the carmaker plans to
build is a mid-sized sedan.  “I need more models but it would have been foolish to
launch them in such a depressed market,” Marchionne told
reporters Oct. 1. “We can’t do it without Chrysler.”  Fiat  is counting on renewed Alfa Romeo enthusiasm in the
U.S. to boost sales. A limited edition of the 8C Competizione,
originally built in the 1930s, was sold last year in coupe and
spider versions for as much a 213,000 euros. All 1,000 cars were
purchased, with 200 of them going to the U.S. Fiat and Alfa
Romeo will “more than likely” be sold in the same U.S.
showrooms when the brands are reintroduced, Marchionne has said.  “I would prefer to have shares of Fiat with Alfa,” said
 Alessandro Frigerio , a fund manager at RMJ Sgr in Milan, which
oversees about 100 million euros in assets. “Alfa has great
potential and has become much more important for Fiat after the
Chrysler deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tommaso Ebhardt  in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  