-- Stocks, Oil Fall on China Rates, Apple Outlook; Dollar Rallies
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2010-10-19T20:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/asian-stocks-rise-default-risk-drops-as-citigroup-profit-tops-estimates.html
Stocks slid, dragging U.S. benchmark
indexes down from five-month highs, as concern grew that banks
will have to buy back soured mortgages and Apple Inc.’s profit
forecast missed analyst estimates. The dollar rallied and
commodities retreated as China raised interest rates.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slid 1.6 percent, the most
in two months, to 1,165.9 at 4 p.m. in New York. The  Dollar
Index  gained 1.7 percent for the biggest advance since August.
Oil tumbled the most in eight months, losing 4.3 percent to
$79.49 a barrel, and copper slid almost 3 percent. Ten-year
Treasuries rallied for a second day, sending their yield down
three basis points to 2.48 percent.  Technology shares were the biggest drag on the S&P 500 as
Apple slumped and International Business Machines Corp. posted a
drop in new contracts. Commodity producers fell after China’s
central bank raised one-year lending and deposit rates by 25
basis points, spurring concern growth will slow. Banks erased
gains as Bloomberg News reported that two investment firms and
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York are seeking to force Bank
of America Corp. to repurchase mortgages packaged into bonds.  “Whenever you bring up other speed bumps in the banking
sector, it makes people uncomfortable,” said  Keith Wirtz , who
oversees $18 billion as chief investment officer at Fifth Third
Asset Management in Cincinnati. “It brings up all the fear
about the financial crisis of 2008,” he said. “China is
another factor making people nervous today. It’s almost as
important these days to focus on Chinese policies as it is to
focus on American policies because of what they mean to the
global economy.”  Bank Gains Erased  Financial shares in the S&P 500 lost 1.4 percent
collectively. The group rallied earlier after  Goldman Sachs 
Group Inc. reported higher-than-estimated earnings and said the
cost of flawed mortgages and new capital rules won’t be
significant. Goldman Sachs climbed 2 percent.  Bank of America lost 4.4 percent as people familiar with
the matter told Bloomberg News that Pacific Investment
Management Co., BlackRock Inc. and the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York are seeking to force the bank to repurchase mortgages
packed into bonds by Countrywide Financial Corp., the mortgage
lender it bought in 2008. Investors are stepping up efforts to
recoup losses on mortgage bonds, which plummeted in value amid
the worst slump in home prices since the 1930s.  Technology companies in the S&P 500 lost 1.7 percent as a
group. The industry is the biggest among 10 in the S&P 500,
accounting for 19 percent of the index’s market value. The group
has surged 17 percent since the end of August, leading the S&P
500’s 11 percent rally since then. Apple has climbed 27 percent
and IBM has risen 12 percent in the period.  ‘Way Too Far’  Apple, the third-biggest company in the world by market
value, lost 2.7 percent today as sales of the iPad also trailed
some analysts’ estimates. IBM slid 3.4 percent.  “Stocks like Apple and IBM have run way too far, so we’re
going to have an earnings season where investors will sell on
the news after we’ve been buying the rumor all the way up,”
said  Tim Hartzell , who oversees $300 million as chief investment
officer for Houston-based Sequent Asset Management.  U.S. equities retreated even after a government report
today showed builders unexpectedly began work on more homes in
September, a sign the real estate market is stabilizing at
depressed levels.  ‘Concerned Enough’  The U.S. currency strengthened against all 16 major peers,
rising more than 1 percent versus 12 peers including the South
Korean won, the euro, the Swiss franc and the Australian dollar.
The Dollar Index, used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
measure the currency against the pound, yen, euro, Swedish
krona, Swiss franc and Canadian dollar,  climbed  to a two-week
high.  “People are concerned enough about the Bank of America
statement and then if you go back to this morning, the dollar
was stronger, China raised an interest rate number and while
Goldman beat expectations, they weren’t great numbers,” said
 Mike Shea , a managing partner and trader at Direct Access
Partners LLC in New York. “You add it up and you have a day
where a prudent investor is going to take a little bit off the
table after what’s been a really nice run.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S. will
preserve confidence in a strong dollar. The U.S. currency has
weakened almost 8 percent against the euro since the end of
August amid speculation the Fed will pump more cash into the
economy to safeguard the recovery.  “The United States of America and no country around the
world can devalue its way to prosperity, to competitiveness,”
Geithner said yesterday in a panel discussion in Palo Alto,
California. “It is not a viable, feasible strategy and we will
not engage in it.”  Default Swaps  A benchmark indicator of corporate credit risk in the U.S.
climbed for the fourth time in six days. Credit-default swaps on
the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 3.6 basis point to a
mid-price of 100.42 basis points at 3:55 p.m. in New York, a
two-week high, according to index administrator Markit Group
Ltd.  Commodity and technology stocks led declines in the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index,  with Rio Tinto Group and Total SA losing more
than 1.6 percent each. Banks in the index climbed 0.5 percent,
with Germany’s Deutsche Bank AG rallying 1.8 percent. The Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision said it agreed on details of
minimum liquidity requirements for banks in a report to the
Group of 20 nations.  SKF, Porsche  SKF AB , the world’s biggest maker of ball bearings, jumped
10 percent as earnings topped estimates. Porsche SE dropped 8.7
percent as Volkswagen AG Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said the merger of the two companies may have to put
on hold until risks from U.S. lawsuits and German tax issues are
resolved. German investor confidence fell to a 21-month low in
October as weaker global growth and a stronger euro dimmed the
export outlook, a report today showed.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined for a third day,
losing 1.3 percent, as technology companies including Samsung
Electronics Co. and Infosys Technologies Ltd. retreated.  The
Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index  fell 0.7 percent, heading
for the steepest drop since June, after the World Bank lowered
its growth forecast for east Asia and urged the region’s policy
makers to ward off asset bubbles.  Brazil’s real lost 0.8 percent to 1.6853 per dollar after
the nation stepped up efforts to curb gains in its currency by
raising inflow taxes and said it may be forced to take
additional measures as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  called for
an end to the worldwide “currency war.”  Real, Pound  Brazil, Latin America’s largest economy, raised the so-
called IOF tax on foreigners’ investments in fixed-income
securities to 6 percent from 4 percent. It also boosted the levy
on money brought into the country to make margin deposits for
transactions in the futures market to 6 percent from 0.38
percent. The benchmark Bovespa index slid 2.6 percent, the most
since June.  The pound weakened 1.2 percent to $1.5692 before the Bank
of England releases minutes tomorrow from its latest meeting,
while Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  details
reductions in government spending plans to tackle the nation’s
budget deficit.  German bonds fell, with the yield on the 10-year bund
rising three basis points to 2.41 percent.  Spain  sold 4.18
billion euros ($5.82 billion) of 12-month bills at an average
yield of 1.842 percent today, compared with 1.908 percent at the
last auction on Sept. 21. It sold 2.22 billion euros of 18-month
bills at a yield of 2.009 percent, compared with 2.146 percent
in September, the Bank of Spain said.  Greece auctioned 1.17 billion euros of 13-week securities
at a yield of 3.75 percent, down from 3.98 percent at a sale on
Sept. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  