-- Asian Stocks Fluctuate on Profit Outlook; Tech Stocks Fall on Apple Report
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-10-19T10:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/asian-stocks-advance-as-citigroup-profit-brightens-banks-earnings-outlook.html
Most  Asian stocks  advanced after
Citigroup Inc. reported profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates,
boosting the outlook for corporate earnings.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s No. 1 lender,
gained 1.6 percent.  PCCW Ltd. , Hong Kong’s biggest phone company,
jumped 3.7 percent after unveiling plans to build a faster
wireless network with billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hutchison
Telecommunications Hong Kong Holdings Ltd.  Wintek Corp. , a
supplier of touch screens for Apple Inc.’s iPhones and iPads,
slumped 5.2 percent.  Five stocks rose for every four that fell on the  MSCI Asia
Pacific Index , which fell 0.1 percent to 130.30 as of 7:25 p.m.
in Tokyo. The gauge earlier rose as much as 0.5 percent and fell
as much as 0.3 percent.  “Valuations are not as cheap as before, but still look
reasonable,” said  Ng Soo Nam , Singapore-based chief investment
officer at Nikko Asset Management Co., which has $123 billion in
assets globally. “We’ll probably see a consolidation rather
than a sharp correction as prospects for further quantitative
easing support equities.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index completed its seventh weekly
advance last week, the longest winning streak since 2006, on
speculation corporate profits will weather Europe’s debt crisis,
Chinese steps to curb property-price inflation and concern about
the pace of the U.S. economic rebound.  Nasdaq Futures Tumble  South Korea’s  Kospi Index  declined 1 percent. Taiwan’s
 Taiex Index  dropped 0.2 percent. Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average  advanced 0.4 percent. Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index 
increased 1.3 percent.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slid 0.3 percent.
Futures on the Nasdaq-100 Index declined 1 percent after Apple,
which makes up 21 percent of the gauge by weight, forecast
profit for the current quarter that missed estimates.  The S&P 500 rose 0.7 percent yesterday in New York to the
highest level since May 3 following Citigroup’s results and as
an unexpected drop in U.S. industrial production added to signs
the Federal Reserve will help fuel an economic recovery.  Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities fell 0.2
percent in September, according to figures from the Fed, the
first decline since the recession ended in June 2009.  Mitsubishi UFJ increased 1.6 percent to 388 yen, paring
gains of as much as 2.4 percent earlier. Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc., Japan’s second-largest bank, advanced 1.7
percent to 2,400 yen.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s third-largest bank by
market value, gained 2.6 percent to 120 yen. The company plans
to increase credit to clients elsewhere in Asia as domestic
demand declines,  Hiroshi Yamamoto , general manager of the
syndicated finance division at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., said
in an interview.  Improving Sentiment  “Market sentiment is improving,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi ,
a strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co.
“Expectations for corporate earnings in the financial sector
are rising after the better-than-expected results at
Citigroup.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has risen 8.3 percent this year
as government and industry reports from the U.S. and China
fueled confidence in the global economic recovery. Stocks on the
gauge trade at 14.3 times  estimated profit  on average, compared
with 14.1 times for the S&P 500 and 12.3 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index.  PCCW climbed 3.7 percent to HK$2.83. Details of the plan
between  Richard Li ’s PCCW and rival Hutchison Telecommunications
to roll out a so-called fourth-generation network will be
announced in the “next few weeks,” PCCW Managing Director  Alex Arena  said in an interview in Hong Kong yesterday  Apple, IBM Disappoint  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. , Li Ka-shing’s biggest company,
increased, 4.4 percent to HK$78.35. Credit Suisse Group AG
raised its share-price forecast to HK$100 from HK$72 on
expectations of higher earnings for its port and retail
businesses. The brokerage maintained its “outperform” rating.  A gauge of information technology companies was the biggest
drag among 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Wintek Corp. slumped 5.2 percent to NT$50.60, leading Apple
suppliers lower.  Genius Electronic Optical Co. , a camera lens
maker, lost 3.1 percent to NT$156.  Apple, the world’s third largest company by market value,
said profit for the current quarter, which includes the yearend
holiday shopping season, will be about $4.80 a share, compared
with a $5.03 estimate by 36 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Apple’s profit has exceeded projections every quarter since at
least the April-to-June period in 2005, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Economic Outlook Reduced’  “Technology is supposed to be one of the best things that
the U.S. exports and the iPad is a major product, so if you see
sales disappointing, the outlook for the economy is reduced,”
said  Steve Tse , a Hong Kong-based research manager at BEA Union
Investment Management, which oversees $4.5 billion.  Samsung Electronics Co., Asia’s biggest maker of
semiconductors, slid 1.3 percent to 741,000 won.  Infosys
Technologies Ltd. , India’s No. 2 software exporter, dropped 3.1
percent to 3,010.2 rupees and was the biggest single drag on the
Asia Pacific Index.  International Business Machines Corp. said yesterday
services contracts fell 7 percent to $11 billion in the third
quarter, its third straight quarterly drop in orders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 