-- Asian Gasoil, Fuel Oil Swaps Rise With Crude; Crack Spreads Weaken: Wrap
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2010-10-19T04:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/asian-gasoil-fuel-oil-swaps-rise-with-crude-crack-spreads-weaken-wrap.html
Asia gasoil and fuel oil swaps
increased after crude oil gained yesterday. Gasoil’s  crack
spread  narrowed, signaling lower refining profit.  Gasoil , or diesel, swaps for November climbed $1.75, or 1.9
percent, to $94.45 a barrel at 11:50 p.m. in Singapore, Asia’s
biggest oil-trading center, according to data from broker PVM
Oil Associates. The product’s premium to Dubai crude, the Asian
benchmark, decreased for a third day, slipping 3 cents to $13.11,
indicating the weakest crack spread since Oct. 8.  Crude pulled back from the highest price in almost two
weeks as analysts forecast the country’s oil stockpiles swelled
to the largest since June. Futures, trading below $83 a barrel,
yesterday jumped 2.3 percent, the most this month.  “The oil markets remain confused and technically
uncertain,”  Peter Beutel , president of energy adviser Cameron
Hanover Inc. in New Canaan, Connecticut, said in a note. “The
economy seems to be recovering and then seems to be losing
ground, hope or confidence. By Tuesday afternoon, traders will
turn their attention to this week’s oil statistics.”  In Singapore, jet fuel’s premium to gasoil gained for a
fourth day, adding 10 cents to $1.30 a barrel, based on PVM data.
This  regrade  was at the widest since June 8, indicating aviation
fuel is more profitable to produce compared with diesel.  Fuel-Oil Crack  November  high-sulfur fuel oil  swaps rose $10.50, or 2.2
percent, to $480 a metric ton, according to PVM. Prices,
rebounding for the first time in three days, recouped all of
yesterday’s losses. Fuel oil’s  discount  to Dubai crude widened
16 cents to $7.49 a barrel, signaling deepening losses for
making the residue.  The premium of 180-centistoke fuel oil to 380-centistoke
grade was unchanged for a third day at $8.25 a ton, PVM said.
This  viscosity spread  is up 6.5 percent this month, showing
bunker, or marine fuel, has lagged behind gains in higher-
quality fuel oil.  Benchmark Japan open-specification naphtha forwards for
second-half November delivery were bid at $775 a ton against
offers at $778, according to broker Ginga Petroleum Singapore
Pte. That’s up from yesterday’s close of $754, which was the
lowest since Oct. 8.  Gasoline’s premium to naphtha fell yesterday to $4.40 a
barrel, the smallest since May 18, Bloomberg calculations showed.
A narrowing reforming margin indicates motor fuel is less
profitable compared with naphtha.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  