-- Asian Currencies Slip, Led by Won, on Concern Central Banks to Curb Gains
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 2010-10-19T09:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/asian-currencies-slip-led-by-won-on-concern-central-banks-to-curb-gains.html
Asian currencies fell, led by South
Korea’s won and Malaysia’s ringgit, on concern policy makers
will slow gains in their currencies to protect exporters as
overseas funds pump in cash in search of higher yields.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar Index  dropped for a
second day after a report from the World Bank said asset bubbles
need to be avoided to prevent a repeat of the 1997 regional
financial crisis.  Brazil yesterday raised taxes on foreign bond investments
for the second time in a month. Thailand last week removed an
exemption on charges while its central bank warned it was
studying measures to cool currency fluctuations. Speculation of
further easing by the Federal Reserve has also drawn capital
from abroad and fueled recent gains in local currencies.  “We are seeing very choppy sessions in Asian currencies as
concern over measures to curb capital inflows is still very much
with us, especially after the Brazil news,” said  Thomas Harr ,
head of foreign-exchange strategy at Standard Chartered Plc in
Singapore. “There is also uncertainty over how much the Fed
will move on quantitative easing.”  The won declined 1 percent, its third day of losses, to
1,130.53 per dollar as of the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s ringgit fell 0.5
percent to 3.1105 and the Thai baht rose 0.1 percent to 29.88.  Appreciation Bias  Technical indicators that traders use to predict currency
movements signaled late last week that the dollar was poised to
rally. The ringgit and the baht reached 13-year highs last week.
Singapore’s currency rose to its strongest since at least 1981
on Oct. 14 and the won climbed to a five-month high the same day.  South Korea’s central bank Governor Kim Choong Soo said
yesterday the appreciation in the won was driven by expectations
the Fed will print more dollars. The government earlier this
month began auditing banks’ foreign exchange trading to clamp
down on speculators.  “Traders are being cautious beyond 1,115 per dollar”
because of concern the Bank of Korea will intervene at about
that level,” said  Yun Se Min , a currency dealer at Busan Bank
in Seoul.  Brazil yesterday raised the so-called IOF tax on foreign
investment in fixed-income securities to 6 percent from 4
percent. It also boosted the levy on money brought into the
country to make margin deposits for transactions in the futures
market to 6 percent from 0.38 percent.  “This is clearly having an impact on the market as
investors are definitely more cautious in getting bullish on
Asian currencies,” Standard Chartered’s Harr said. “The trend
is still for dollar-Asians to trade lower but the move will be
very gradual.”  Growth, Inflation  The World Bank lowered its forecast for economic growth in
East Asia and urged policy makers to curb inflation.  Developing East Asia, which excludes Japan, Hong Kong,
Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore and India, will expand 7.8
percent next year, slower than an April estimate of 8 percent,
the Washington-based lender said in a semiannual report today.
The region is forecast to grow 8.9 percent in 2010.  “Authorities in East Asia need to take adequate
precautions to ensure that they do not repeat the same mistake
twice in slightly over a decade,” the World Bank said.  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso dropped 0.4 percent to
43.415 per dollar and the Taiwan dollar fell 0.1 percent to
NT$30.90. India’s rupee and Indonesia’s rupiah were unchanged at
44.365 and 8,928 respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 