-- Massey Rises Most in 17 Months After Report It's Seeking a Possible Sale
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2010-10-19T15:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/massey-energy-rises-most-in-17-months-on-report-of-possible-sale-of-miner.html
Massey Energy Co. , owner of the
Upper Big Branch coal mine where 29 people died in April, rose
the most in 17 months on a report it’s seeking a possible sale.  Massey gained as much as 9.7 percent, the most since May
18, 2009, after the  Wall Street Journal  said the Richmond,
Virginia-based company is “exploring strategic alternatives,
including a possible sale.” Massey’s board formed a committee
last week to look at the future of the company, the newspaper
said, citing people familiar with the matter.  “There may be some interest out there and there may be
potential suitors around, but I have a hard time seeing the
company structuring anything before the completion of the Upper
Big Branch accident investigation,” said Daniel Scott, an
analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co. in New York.  The company rose $2.30, or 6.5 percent, to $37.86 at 10:46
a.m. on the New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Earlier
the shares touched $39.  Massey may seek to be acquired, buy another company or
remain independent, the newspaper said.  Massey Comment  In a statement today, Massey said its board and management
are “always focused on opportunities to create shareholder
value,” and it doesn’t “comment on specific opportunities.”  Massey has the largest reserve base in Central Appalachia
and the lowest cost production among major producers, according
to  Jeremy Sussman , an analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co. in
New York.  The company may produce 13 million tons of metallurgical
coal in 2011, becoming one of the largest producers of that type
of coal, according to Sussman.  “Given all of those positives, we have to think that
Massey’s assets would be viewed attractively by potential
domestic and international buyers,” Sussman said in a report
today.  The company said in July that its reserve of metallurgical
coal is estimated at 1.3 billion tons. Metallurgical coal is
used to produce steel, while the thermal form of the fuel is
consumed by utilities to generate electricity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  