-- Austrian Energy Says Citic Wrongfully Halted Contract, Owes Cost of Delays
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2010-10-19T16:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/austrian-energy-says-citic-wrongfully-halted-contract-owes-cost-of-delays.html
Citic Pacific Ltd. , an arm of
China’s biggest state-owned investment company, wrongfully
terminated a contract with Austrian Energy & Environment to
build a gas-fired power plant at the Sino Iron project in
Australia, the Vienna-based unit of A-Tec Industries AG said.  Citic Pacific Mining Ltd. , the Australian unit of Citic
Pacific, owes “significant” costs after delays, Austrian
Energy & Environment said in an e-mailed statement today.  “AE&E has been trying to reach an agreement with Citic
Pacific Mining on the Sino Iron Combined Cycle Power Project for
legitimate extension of time plus reimbursement of costs for
delays and additional works caused by the client,” it said.  Citic Pacific Mining said AE&E had already received funds
and Sino Iron had been willing to provide more. “Sino Iron has
provided $32 million in cash advance payments to AE&E and was
prepared in the last week of discussions between the parties to
release further significant funds subject to security being put
in place by AE&E,” Andrew Smith, a Perth-based spokesman for
Citic Pacific Mining, said today in an e-mailed statement.  The disputed power project would fuel Citic Pacific’s $5.2
billion magnetite iron ore project scheduled to begin shipments
from Western Australia in the first half of next year. On Oct.
14, A-TEC forecast an operating loss, citing cost overruns at
the Australian power station project. Citic, which sold assets
to focus on its iron ore, steel and property businesses, said
yesterday it ended the contract after AE&E failed to meet terms.  Citic ‘Frustrated’  Sino Iron had “hoped” to bring contractor Ottoway
Engineering Pty Ltd. into the project today to continue work on
the power station, Smith said in the e-mail. “This however has
been frustrated by AE&E due to AE&E’s reluctance to clarify its
use of rented ancillary facilities on site,” he said.  The Austrian company is reviewing its position and plans to
get “the outstanding costs which are rightfully owed under the
contract,” Austrian Energy said today.  The 450-megawatt gas-fired power station, with a capacity
equivalent to the current energy needs of the entire Pilbara
region in Western Australia, will be fueled by natural gas from
the Reindeer field, a joint project between Apache Corp. and
Santos Ltd., Citic Pacific said last year.  Citic wants to mobilize “several” contractors tomorrow
“but this will depend on CPM sourcing the necessary facilities
in time,” Smith said.  Austrian Energy is the contractor responsible for the
design, construction and commissioning of the plant, which is
almost complete, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Comfort  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  