-- RBA Says Decision to Hold Interest Rates Was `Finely Balanced'
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2010-10-19T02:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/australian-central-bank-calls-decision-to-maintain-rates-finely-balanced-.html
Australian policy makers said their
decision two weeks ago to hold the benchmark interest rate at
4.5 percent was “finely balanced” as risks to global growth
and a rising currency helped ease inflation concerns.  “The case to wait before making a tightening move was that
the economy was still expected to continue growing at trend in
the near term, credit growth had softened somewhat and the rise
in the exchange rate would, if it continued, effectively be
tightening financial conditions at the margin,” the Reserve
Bank of Australia said in minutes of its Oct. 5 meeting released
in Sydney today.  The Australian dollar reached parity with its U.S.
counterpart last week, and the minutes showed policy makers
expected the currency’s appreciation would help temper  near-term
inflation  as the biggest mining investment boom in more than a
century intensifies. A  report  two days after the meeting showed
full-time employment in the past two months gained the most
since 1988.  The RBA, which next meets Nov. 2, is “clearly signaling
we’re going to get a rate hike this year,” said  Adam Carr , a
senior economist at ICAP Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “The issue
is November or December and you can flip a coin on that.”  Carr said the central bank would probably want more
information, including third-quarter inflation data due on Oct.
27, and to see what the exchange rate and Federal Reserve do.  ‘Flexibility’ to Wait  “While the board recognized that it could not wait
indefinitely to see whether risks materialized, members judged
that they had the flexibility to do so on this occasion,”
today’s minutes showed.  The Australian dollar rose to as high as 99.60 U.S. cents
after the minutes were published and traded at 99.18 cents as of
12:04 p.m. in Sydney, from 99.27 cents before the release. It
has climbed 2 percent since this month’s meeting.  A majority of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead
of the decision expected a rate increase. The minutes showed the
RBA debated that option.  “A case could be made to increase the cash rate at the
current meeting, based on the medium-term inflation outlook and
the fact that developments had continued to be broadly
consistent with the central forecast scenario,” policy makers
said today.  Currency’s Assistance  Inflation was expected to “remain in the target range over
the near term” and the currency’s rise would “help promote
this outcome,” the minutes showed. They aim to keep inflation
in a range of 2 percent to 3 percent on average.  The central bank’s previous rate  increases  have helped make
the Australian dollar the second-best performer among the 16
most traded currencies this year, gaining about 10 percent. In
contrast, Federal Reserve officials are considering additional
monetary stimulus as the U.S. economy loses traction.  Policy makers noted the U.S. economy was continuing to grow
and recent data had been more positive, though “risks still
appeared to be tilted to the downside,” today’s minutes showed.
It is “still possible that downside risks to global growth
could materialize,” they said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the Federal Open Market
Committee are considering strategies, before their Nov. 2-3
policy meeting, to raise inflation expectations and purchase
additional assets to help reduce unemployment persisting at more
than 9 percent.  Hiring Surge  Australian employers last month added the most workers
since January, supporting central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens ’
view of an economy that may strengthen.  Expansion by companies such as  Chevron Corp. , which is
developing the Gorgon liquefied natural gas project in Western
Australia, threatens to worsen a skills shortage and stoke
consumer prices.  “As in the previous month, members concluded that interest
rates would need to rise at some point if the economy evolved in
line with the central scenario of a gradual tightening in
resources utilization,” policy makers said in the minutes today.  Traders calculate a 36 percent chance of a quarter-point
increase in Australia’s benchmark rate to 4.75 percent next
month, according to Bloomberg calculations based on interbank
futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange after the minutes were
released. There’s a 56 percent chance of a move in December.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 heath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net  