-- Australian Hard, Noodle Wheat `Firm' as Rain Hurts Europe, Canada Output
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-10-19T07:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/australian-hard-noodle-wheat-firm-as-rain-hurts-europe-canada-output.html
Australian prices for high protein
and noodle wheat grades were “firm” because of strong global
demand and reduced supply amid a wider market decline, said  AWB
Ltd. , the nation’s largest shipper.  Price estimates were raised by A$2 ($2) a metric ton for
growers delivering to two wheat marketing pools while estimates
for most grades were cut by A$3 to A$21 a ton as the spread
between higher and lower qualities widened, AWB said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Drought has cut wheat output in Western Australia, where
the noodle variety is grown, while rain damaged some early
harvested crops in central Queensland state which supplies high-
protein wheat. Wet weather in Europe and Canada had increased
demand for Australian high-grade wheat, AWB said this month.  “The market is firm for prime hard wheats and noodle
wheats, reflecting world demand and the knowledge that supply of
these grades from Australia will be tight,” AWB General Manager
Commodities  Mitch Morison  said in a statement today.  December-delivery futures on the Chicago Board of Trade
rose 0.2 percent to $6.9125 a bushel at 6:16 p.m. Melbourne time.
The prices reached $8.68 on Aug. 6 after Russia banned exports.  Australian wheat production is forecast at the lower end of
a 22 million metric ton to 23 million ton range, Rabobank Groep
NV said in a report this month. A  Bureau of Meteorology  outlook
for east coast rain raised concerns about losses from disease
and quality downgrades, while dry weather had worsened crop
conditions in the nation’s west, the bank said.  Reduced Forecast  The Grain Industry Association of Western Australian
forecast this month that the state’s wheat output may drop to
3.93 million tons. That compared with 8.2 million tons last year,
according to a government forecast.  Production of the noodle variety sold to Japan and South
Korea would be well down from last year’s output of more than 1
million tons, Emerald Group Australia Pty General Manager of
Trading Chris Kochanski said today. The company, half owned by
 Sumitomo Corp. , last week made its first sale of noodle wheat to
South Korea, for shipment in January.  Harvesting would soon start for crops to be delivered to
Brisbane port in Queensland state, while the pace of harvesting
would likely be slower down the eastern coast this season
compared with recent drought-affected years, he said.  Any delays in moving equipment southward because of the
large east coast harvest increased the risk that rain would
damage crops if wet weather continued, Kochanski said by phone
from Melbourne.  “The risk of a feed wheat event increases because crop
could be ripe for a week or so before the machinery and the
people get there to be able to take the crop off,” he said.  Prime hard wheat accounted for about 13 percent of
Australia’s exports in the year ended September 2009 while
noodle wheat accounted for 7.6 percent, according to Wheat
Exports Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  