-- Australia Stands Firm on Commitment to Afghanistan, Prime Minister Says
-- B y   M a r i o n   R a e
-- 2010-10-19T06:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/australia-stands-firm-on-commitment-to-afghanistan-prime-minister-says.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said
Australia will maintain its military commitment in Afghanistan
in the face of opposition from within her minority government.  “Australia’s national interests in Afghanistan are
clear,” Gillard told parliament today at the start of a three-
day debate on the conflict. “There must be no safe haven for
terrorists. We must stand firmly by our ally, the United
States.”  Gillard agreed to the debate because her Labor Party’s one-
month-old government relies on the support of the Greens Party
and independent lawmaker  Andrew Wilkie , both of whom want to
pull the country’s 1,550 troops out of Afghanistan. Opposition
leader  Tony Abbott  supports the deployment, which has seen 21
Australian soldiers  killed  since 2002, including 10 in the past
five months.  “We should bring our troops home,” Greens leader  Bob Brown  told reporters in Canberra before the debate. “There is
no exit strategy and there is no long-term mission statement.”  Most of the soldiers are based in central Uruzgan province
as part of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization-led force.
Australia has provided more than A$743 million ($733 million) in
aid to Afghanistan since 2001 and the assistance budget for
2010-11 is A$106 million, according to the defense department.  “Our force structure, the number of troops on the ground
and the capabilities they have, is right for our mission,”
which will run for the next two to four years, Gillard said.
“The international community will remain engaged in Afghanistan
beyond 2014, and Australia will remain engaged.”  Gillard, 49, visited soldiers in Afghanistan on Oct. 2 and
met President  Hamid Karzai  and General  David Petraeus , commander
of NATO forces. It was her first overseas trip after the Aug. 21
election.  Wilkie, a former intelligence analyst, today said there
will be no peace in Afghanistan “until foreign troops leave.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marion Rae in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  