-- Australian Dollar Rises From Two-Week Low as Central Bank May Raise Rates
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-10-20T18:35:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/australian-new-zealand-dollars-near-two-week-lows-as-china-raises-rates.html
The Australian dollar rose for the
first time in four days as traders used its drop to the lowest
level in two weeks to buy the currency amid speculation the
South Pacific nation’s central bank will raise interest rates.  New Zealand’s currency traded near its weakest in a month
against the yen after Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group
Ltd. said whole milk powder auction prices fell to the lowest in
more than two months. The Australian and New Zealand dollars
slid yesterday on concern an unexpected interest-rate increase
in China will slow growth in Asia’s biggest economy and damp
demand for  commodities .  “The Aussie is vulnerable to these pushes lower, but it’s
likely to be temporary in the absence of any further shocks to
the market,” said Timothy Connors, head of foreign exchange at
Custom House Global Foreign Exchange in Sydney. “Expectations
are building for a rate rise in Australia in the coming three
months.”  Australia’s currency rose as much as 2 percent to 98.84
before trading at 98.82 U.S. cents at 2:30 p.m. in New York from
96.86 cents yesterday. That is the biggest intraday gain since
Sept. 1 rebounding from yesterday when it touched 96.62 cents,
the least since Oct. 5. The currency rose to 80.10 yen from
79.03 yen. New Zealand’s dollar fetched 75.65 U.S. cents from
74.41 yesterday. It bought 61.30 yen from 60.72.  Reserve Bank of Australia policy makers said yesterday that
their decision to leave interest rates unchanged earlier this
month was “finely balanced.” Benchmark rates would likely have
to rise “at some point,” the bank said in minutes to its Oct.
5 policy meeting released yesterday.  Interest Rates  The Australian dollar has gained 10 percent against the
U.S. dollar over the past three months and has been the best
performer among its 16 most-traded counterparts. New Zealand’s
currency has advanced 4.2 percent.  China’s central bank raised its benchmark one-year lending
and deposit rates yesterday in an effort to curb lending and
prevent asset-price bubbles. The nation is Australia’s largest
trading partner and New Zealand’s second-biggest export market.  The Aussie recovered some of yesterday’s 2.1 percent drop
as Asian exporters used declines in their domestic currencies to
purchase them against the greenback, said  Kurt Magnus , executive
director of foreign-exchange sales at Nomura Australia Ltd.  “The selling of dollars by Asian exporters has fed through
into euro-dollar and that’s why we’ve had a bounce,” in Aussie,
Magnus said. Investors will resume selling the Australian
dollar, driving it toward 95.20 U.S. over the next two days, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 