-- Autonomy Says 2011 Analyst Estimates May Rise as Demand Climbs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-10-19T11:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/autonomy-says-its-third-quarter-revenue-increases-by-10-to-211-million.html
Autonomy Corp. , the U.K.’s second-
largest software company, said analyst estimates for earnings
per share in 2011 may increase after demand for its products
rose and it closed some pending deals.  Third-quarter revenue climbed 10 percent to $211 million
and the adjusted gross margin rose to 88 percent from 86 percent
a year earlier, Cambridge, England-based Autonomy said today in
a statement. The company expects “to deliver good earnings per
share growth in 2011, with upside to current market consensus.”  On Oct. 6, Autonomy fell 16 percent, the most in eight
years in London trading, after it lowered its full-year forecast
for sales growth, citing unpredictability amongst its corporate
and government customers. Demand has increased since the end of
the third quarter and some outstanding contract deals have been
sealed, the company said today, prompting the stock to rise as
much as 5.6 percent.  “The reason we brought the year down was because of
volatility rather than demand,” Autonomy Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Lynch  said today in a telephone interview.
“Customers are changing their minds backwards and forwards.”  The number of newly signed contracts with other technology
equipment makers such as Symantec Corp., a lead indicator of
investment, climbed to 12 from 9 in the previous quarter.  The company has customers including the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, the U.K Houses of Parliament, Europe’s
largest defense company BAE Systems Plc and carmaker Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG.  Assuaging Fears  The company “needed to assuage growing investor fears
regarding the demand for Autonomy solutions,” particularly in
the regulatory and compliance unit, Credit Suisse AG analysts
including  Frederick Grieb  said today in a note to clients. “We
believe the management commentary has accomplished this.”  The shares rose as much as 79 pence to 1,498 pence and
traded at 1,490 pence at 11:55 a.m. Before today, the stock had
dropped 6.1 percent this year.  Autonomy, which raised 500 million pounds by selling
convertible bonds in April, will announce an acquisition this
fall, Lynch said today. A purchase will be out of the “standard
Autonomy playbook” and similar to previous acquisitions
including Verity Inc., he said.  Autonomy acquired rival Verity in 2005 for $331 million to
add clients in North America.  Sage Group Plc is the U.K.’s largest software maker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 