-- Aviation Deal on Greenhouse Gas Emissions for 2020 Is `Good Step Forward'
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2010-10-19T16:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/aviation-deal-on-greenhouse-gas-emissions-for-2020-is-good-step-forward-.html
The International Civil Aviation
Organization agreement to curb global aircraft emissions was a
“good step forward,” and more-ambitious targets should be
pursued, said  Andy Kershaw , a manager at British Airways.  At a meeting earlier this month, the Montreal-based
organization agreed to curb global aircraft discharges of
greenhouse gases beginning in 2020 and accepted the European
Union’s plan to cap emissions by domestic and foreign airlines
serving Europe starting in 2012.  “Countries and industry must work now to develop the
details,” Kershaw, environmental policy manager at BA, told a
Platts seminar on emissions in Brussels. “We still have to look
at more ambitious proposals. The industry has proposed global
emissions from aviation should be halved in net terms by 2050
from 2005 levels.”  The aviation deal, reached after almost a decade of
deadlock, will cover more than 90 percent of worldwide air
traffic, according to the EU. Emissions from international
aviation now account for as much as 3 percent of global
greenhouse gas discharges, and their share is expected to rise
in the coming decades as the industry grows.  The aviation agreement will pave the way to the swift
inclusion of airlines in the EU emissions trading system, or
ETS. Carriers flying into the 27-nation region, from Japan
Airlines Corp. and Delta Air Lines Inc. to the private jets of
U.S. and Asian corporations, are preparing to join more than
11,000 factories and power plants that already must own EU
permits for every metric ton of carbon dioxide they release.  A cap-and-trade program is the best tool to curb emissions,
Kershaw said. He cited a study showing a tax on greenhouse gases
is 23 times more costly to achieve the same environmental goal.  “The EU ETS has its flaws, but it’s still our preferred
instrument,” Kershaw said. “We need to focus on trading
solutions and not have governments believe that levy is a good
one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ewa Krukowska  in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  