-- Bangladesh’s Bavarian, IPad Apps Spread Smart Buildings: Review
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2010-10-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/bangladesh-s-bavarian-ipad-apps-spread-smart-buildings-james-s-russell.html
In one of Africa’s most remote
places, a three-room school rises from a hot, dry plain. The
metal roof arches over spidery steel rods and mud-brick walls.
It’s stark, gorgeous, simple.  We are looking at hope in the tiny village of Gando,
Burkina Faso, West Africa, one of the exhibits in “Small Scale,
Big Change: New Architectures of Social Engagement” at
Manhattan’s Museum of Modern Art.  After making good as an architect, the designer returned to
build the school his poor village so desperately needed.  At another school in Rudrapur, Bangladesh, fabrics in
vibrant blue, red and lavender flutter from the doorways and
cover the ceiling. Inspired by local adobe traditions, Bavarian
architect  Anna Heringer  used thick walls to deflect the searing
sun. Local residents framed an upper level in lightweight bamboo
poles lashed together.  The result is an environment in which any kid would be
happy to learn.  MoMA showcases just 11 projects. Several are of surpassing
beauty, like Heringer’s. Others show marvelous inventiveness,
like a ski-resort aerial tram used to connect an isolated slum
in Caracas with the jobs and opportunities of the central city.  Culture, Politics  Social improvement was a central tenet in the rise of
modern 20th-century architecture in Europe, though today’s
practitioners approach the globe’s massive poverty without
grand, city-obliterating heroic gestures -- such as Le
Corbusier’s proposal to bulldoze a large swath of Paris. Their
work demands cultural sensitivity and the patience to survive
exasperating politics.  I met the architect of the Gando school,  Diebedo Francis
Kere , at the exhibition. Connecting villages with talent is
hard, he said: “There’s no way to know what anyone else is
doing in Africa.”  Teaching in Europe, he could get the word out, and his
school won a prestigious  Aga Khan award . That drew attention to
the school’s low-cost potential to expand both education and
useful building skills. Now Kere is working in Niger and Lagos
and designing an instructional museum of clay buildings.  Chilean architect  Alejandro Aravena  builds houses to turn
slum dwellers into homeowners in his country’s northeastern city
of Iquique.  “Housing should be an investment, not a social expense,”
he told me.  Skinny Towers  Aravena built rows of skinny masonry towers, leaving
platforms to one side of each for families to build themselves
low-tech additions, like bedrooms or a workshop. In this way
Aravena could deliver houses, on the meager $7,500 per dwelling
subsidy provided by the state, close to where people lived.  The alternative, he said, “is to build on cheap land two
hours away, where there are no jobs and no transportation. That
severs extended family relationships, so people lose income and
the housing loses value. Ours gains in value.”  Teddy Cruz, of San Diego, who is something of a rock star
in social-architecture circles, has long worked with San Ysidro,
California. Low-income immigrant populations exuberantly
undermine the tidiness of suburban subdivisions by mixing
commerce and living. Rather than clean up this messy vitality,
Cruz has designed zoning that legalizes it.  Though the displayed projects are tiny forays into massive
problems, they raise sticky questions. Do they bandage slums
rather than eliminate them? Do such projects work in the long
term, and are they replicable?  Networking App  The closest MoMA gets to these issues is a display of
interactive tools that help spread news of the best work.
 Architecture for Humanity  developed the Open Architecture
Network, now an iPad app, so collaborators and funders can see
progress on projects in real time.  It’s a smart way to help committed architects and their
partners navigate the perplexing maze of foreign aid,
philanthropy, United Nations programs and nongovernmental
organizations.  A show like this one at a museum associated with
progressive design, helps worthy projects get cash and clout --
important weapons against problems often so horrifying that we
too readily turn away.  “Small Scale, Big Change: New Architectures of Social
Engagement” runs at the Museum of Modern Art in New York until
Jan. 3, 2011. For more information:  http://www.moma.org   ( James S. Russell  writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 