-- Canada Keeps Key Rate at 1%, Predicts Slower Recovery
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-19T15:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/bank-of-canada-keeps-interest-rate-at-1-predicts-slower-global-recovery.html
The Bank of Canada kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged after three previous
increases, saying any further tightening would be “carefully
considered” as the economy will take an extra year to reach its
full potential.  Governor  Mark Carney  kept the target rate for overnight
loans between commercial banks at 1 percent and cut his forecast
for growth next year to 2.3 percent from 2.9 percent. All 18
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News predicted the rate
decision from Ottawa today.  “At this time of transition in the global recovery, with a
weaker U.S. outlook, constraints beginning to moderate growth in
emerging-market economies, and domestic considerations that are
expected to slow consumption and housing activity in Canada, any
further reduction in monetary policy stimulus would need to be
carefully considered,” the bank said in a statement.  Canada joins central banks in Brazil, Malaysia and
Australia in keeping rates unchanged to gauge the global
recovery and avoiding a divergence with the  Federal Reserve  and
the European Central Bank, where policy makers have signaled
they may offer additional stimulus. The Canadian dollar fell for
a fourth day, the longest decline in almost two months.  ‘Heightened Tensions’  The Bank of Canada reduced its estimate of economic growth
for this year to 3 percent from 3.5 percent.  “Heightened tensions in currency markets and related risks
associated with global imbalances could result in a more
protracted and difficult global recovery,” the bank said.  The report was “very dovish,” said  Mark Chandler , head of
Canadian fixed income and currency strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada in Toronto. “They came across with the impression we’re
going to be in this for the long haul.”  The Canadian dollar dropped 1.4 percent to C$1.0319 per
U.S. dollar at 10:47 a.m. in Toronto.  Growth in the U.S. and other developed economies will be
slower than expected because “of difficult labor market
dynamics and ongoing deleveraging,” the bank said. Emerging-
market growth will also slow as those countries tighten fiscal
and monetary policies, the bank said.  China today said it would raise its benchmark lending and
deposit rates for the first time since 2007, ahead of data that
may show inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in almost two
years.  ‘Excess Supply’  Canada’s economy still has “significant excess supply”
and won’t reach full output until the end of 2012, the bank
said, instead of its July prediction for the start of that year.
Inflation won’t reach the bank’s 2 percent target until the end
of 2012. The current interest rate leaves “considerable
monetary stimulus in place” to reach the inflation target, the
bank said.  The Bank of Canada raised its 2012 growth estimate to 2.6
percent from 2.2 percent. The expansion will shift from being
driven by consumer and government spending to business
investment and exports, the bank said.  The bank may not raise rates again for six months, trading
in overnight index swaps indicated. The rate on the  six-month 
security, a gauge of what investors think the policy rate will
average over that time, was 1.056 percent today, down from 1.095
percent yesterday.  “They are still leaning toward raising rates, but the
economic context is preventing them from doing so,” said
 Sebastien Lavoie , an economist at Laurentian Bank Securities in
Montreal, who also predicts no rate increase for at least six
months.  Export Pressure  Canada relies on the U.S. for 63 percent of its trade, and
the country’s dollar reached parity with its U.S. counterpart
last week for the first time since April. U.S. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 15 that new stimulus may be warranted
because inflation is too low and unemployment is too high.  That could put fresh pressure on  exporters  hurt in the
global recession by lost U.S. orders of manufactured goods such
as autos and paper.  Forest-product maker Canfor Corp. and U.S. Steel Corp., the
second-largest U.S. maker of the metal, have said they are
shutting plants because of reduced demand. Canfor said Sept. 22
it will close a mill near Prince George, British Columbia, in
part because of “the protracted downturn in new home
construction in the U.S.” The mill employed about 185 people.  Monetary policy may become the chief tool to support the
recovery with Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  saying his two-year
stimulus spending package will end in March. Opposition leaders
such as  Jack Layton  of the New Democratic Party have said the
government should extend some of the measures.  “Thank God Mark Carney is driving this train,”  Michael Ignatieff , leader of the opposition Liberal Party, told
reporters in Ottawa a half hour after the decision. “Canadians
can be grateful for his prudence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 