-- Bank Lobby Chief Questions Merit of Capital Surcharge on Biggest Lenders
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2010-10-19T09:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/bank-lobby-chief-questions-merit-of-capital-surcharge-on-biggest-lenders.html
The head of Japan’s banking lobby
questioned the merit of imposing extra capital requirements on
large lenders, as global regulators debate the issue.  “Discussion of a capital surcharge seems strange, and I
wonder if it’s fair to facilitate a rule to big banks across the
board,”  Masayuki Oku , chairman of the  Japanese Bankers
Association , said at a news conference in Tokyo today. “Each
country has different regulations and economic conditions, and
each bank has a different business model.”  International policy makers are discussing whether to
impose stricter capital rules for the world’s largest lenders to
prevent another financial crisis, after ironing out minimum
requirements last month. The Financial Stability Board is
meeting in Seoul tomorrow and will present recommendations ahead
of a Group of 20 summit next month.  Japan’s Financial Services Agency this month said it’s not
considering forcing the country’s biggest banks to hold more
capital than required under the so-called Basel III rules. In
contrast, countries including Switzerland are moving toward
imposing tougher standards for banks that are too big to fail.  Oku, who is chairman of  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. , also spoke about earnings prospects for Japanese banks,
saying results in the quarter ended Sept. 30 may be similar to
the preceding three months, when lenders’ profits increased as
credit costs fell.  Sumitomo Mitsui posted 211.8 billion yen ($2.6 billion) of
profit for the three months ended June 30. It forecasts 340
billion yen of earnings for the year ending March 31.  Oku also said Sumitomo Mitsui will continue to support its
consumer-lending unit  Promise Co. , whose shares have tumbled 46
percent since rival Takefuji Corp. went bankrupt last month.  Takefuji’s Sept. 28 collapse made it the largest casualty
of a government clampdown that forced consumer lenders to reduce
interest on loans and repay overcharges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  