-- Bank of America Posts $7.3 Billion Loss on Cost of New Rules
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-10-19T20:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/bank-of-america-posts-7-3-billion-loss-on-cost-of-consumer-banking-rules.html
Bank of America Corp. , the largest
U.S. lender, reported a $7.3 billion loss tied to new rules on
consumer accounts and credit cards and said it’s fighting
demands to buy back allegedly faulty loans.  The third quarter’s loss of 77 cents a diluted share
widened from a loss of $1 billion, or 26 cents, a year earlier,
according to a  statement  today from the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based bank. Excluding a one-time writedown, the bank
earned $3.1 billion, or 27 cents a share. The average  estimate 
of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 14 cents.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, must contend
with stricter rules on consumer fees, rein in mortgage losses
and fend off state probes of the industry’s foreclosure
practices. Moynihan said trading gains boosted results, adding
that the worst of the credit losses have passed and there’s no
need to sell stock to meet new international standards.  “This is as optimistic as you’re going to hear Brian
talk,” said  Thomas Brown , CEO of Second Curve Capital LLC and
Bloomberg Contributing Director, on ‘In the Loop’ with  Betty Liu . “The results were impressive in two areas. One was the
improvement in credit quality, the other was the improvement in
capital, but it was a very good quarter for them.”  Stock Reaction  Shares declined 4.4 percent to $11.80 after Bloomberg News
reported that Pacific Investment Management Co., BlackRock Inc.
and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York wrote a letter to Bank
of America seeking to force the lender to repurchase soured
mortgages packaged into $47 billion of bonds. The letter also
went to  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.,  the debt’s trustee,
according to people familiar with the matter.  “We continue to review and assess the letter, and have a
number of questions about its content, including whether these
investors have standing to bring these claims,” Bank of America
Chief Financial Officer  Charles H. Noski  said today on a
conference call with analysts. “We continue to believe the
servicer is in compliance with the servicing obligations.”  Revenue net of interest expense rose 2 percent from a year
earlier to $27 billion, according to the company. Compared with
the second quarter, revenue fell 8.4 percent.  The global banking and markets group reported a $1.4
billion profit compared with $928 million in the second quarter
and $2.2 billion a year earlier. Investment banking income
gained 3.9 percent from the previous quarter.  Trading Revenue  Bank of America’s fixed-income trading revenue surged to
$3.53 billion from $2.32 billion in the second quarter,
exceeding the totals at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc.
and bucking the declines that those competing banks reported for
the period. The trading units made money every day, the bank
said.  The wealth and investment management business reported a
$313 million profit, up 34 percent from a year earlier.
Brokerage fees declined $175 million because of reducing trading
volume, the bank said.  Card services reported a $9.87 billion loss compared with a
$955 million loss a year earlier because of a goodwill charge of
$10.4 billion. Laws enacted this year could slash as much as 80
percent of debit-card revenue, hurting the value of the
business.  Moynihan said Sept. 14 the company will recoup most of the
lost consumer-banking revenue, without providing details. He
succeeded  Kenneth D. Lewis  as CEO at the start of the year.  Commercial Banking  Commercial banking swung to a $637 million gain from a
$160 million loss a year earlier. Demand for commercial loans
picked up at the end of the third quarter, Noski said.  Bank of America’s mortgage banking income almost doubled
during the quarter to $1.76 billion from the previous quarter.
Profit margins widened and the bank took in more fees from
borrowers wanting to lock in interest rates for home loans, the
bank said.  The bank earmarked $5.6 billion for credit losses, compared
with $8.1 billion in the second quarter and $11.7 billion a year
earlier. Net write-offs of uncollectible loans declined 25
percent.  “We see delinquencies coming down in all our portfolios,”
Moynihan said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television.
“We can see the American consumer healing.”  State Probes  A probe by attorneys general in all 50 states focusing on
faulty foreclosure documents has raised concern that lenders
will be forced to buy back billions of dollars of loans from
investors. The bank said yesterday it plans to resume filing
 foreclosure  affidavits after an Oct. 8 halt to review its
procedures.  “This is not pleasant, and we would like to get through
it,” Moynihan said. “We’re going to defend our shareholders
and make sure that any loans that come back to us, if there were
mistakes made and we owe the money, we’ll do it.” For the most
part, he said, “they don’t have the defects that people
allege.”  Bank of America’s cost of repurchasing mortgages that
didn’t meet investors’ standards declined to $872 million from
$1.2 billion in the second quarter.  The bank expects elevated levels of repurchases through
2012 as it negotiates with Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other
investors in loans and mortgage-backed securities, Moynihan
said.  Document Disputes  Executives including Moynihan and  Barbara Desoer , head of
the home lending unit, sought to soothe investor concern last
week that mishandled foreclosures may have caused a wave of
erroneous evictions, or that the bank may be facing massive
expenses tied to fixing faulty  court filings .  “The foreclosure document issue is a minor problem, but
the headlines related to that are a major problem for Bank of
America,”  Paul Miller , an FBR Capital Markets analyst who has
an “outperform” rating on Bank of America, said in an
interview before results were released. “Just contesting these
foreclosures drags out the time until we have some resolution.”  Moynihan said Oct. 14 that about a third of the homes Bank
of America seizes are vacant, and that borrowers in foreclosed
homes typically haven’t  made payments  for 15 to 24 months.
Desoer added the next day that estimates by analysts and
investors of costs from delays have been “grossly distorted.”  Credit Costs  JPMorgan , the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said Oct.
13 that third-quarter profit rose 23 percent. Citigroup, the
third-largest, yesterday reported a $2.17 billion profit as it
reduced its loan-loss reserves by $1.99 billion. Results at both
companies exceeded the consensus of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Wells Fargo & Co., based in San Francisco, reports
tomorrow.  “There’s no revenue growth,”  Jason Tyler , a senior vice
president at Ariel Investments LLC in Chicago, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “Everyone is struggling to
figure out how these banks are going to make money.”  Bank of America ranks first in the U.S. by deposits and
assets, and second among credit-card and housing lenders. The
acquisition of Merrill Lynch in January 2009 bolstered the
company’s corporate and investment-banking operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 