-- Bank of Canada Keeps Its Benchmark Interest Rate at 1% (Text of Statement)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-19T12:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/bank-of-canada-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-at-1-text-of-statement-.html
Following is the text accompanying
the Bank of Canada’s decision to leave its benchmark overnight
rate target at 1 percent.  The statement was released today in Ottawa.  The Bank of Canada today announced that it is maintaining
its target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. The Bank Rate is
correspondingly 1 1/4 per cent and the deposit rate is 3/4 per
cent.  The global economic recovery is entering a new phase. In
advanced economies, temporary factors supporting growth in 2010 -
such as the inventory cycle and pent-up demand - have largely run
their course and fiscal stimulus will shift to fiscal
consolidation over the projection horizon. While the Bank expects
that private demand in advanced economies will become
sufficiently entrenched to sustain the recovery, the combination
of difficult labour market dynamics and ongoing deleveraging in
many advanced economies is expected to moderate the pace of
growth relative to prior expectations. These factors will
contribute to a weaker-than-projected recovery in the United
States in particular. Growth in emerging-market economies is
expected to ease to a more sustainable pace as fiscal and
monetary policies are tightened. Heightened tensions in currency
markets and related risks associated with global imbalances could
result in a more protracted and difficult global recovery.  The economic outlook for Canada has changed. The Bank
expects the economic recovery to be more gradual than it had
projected in its July Monetary Policy Report, with growth of 3.0
per cent in 2010, 2.3 per cent in 2011, and 2.6 per cent in 2012.
This more modest growth profile reflects a more gradual global
recovery and a more subdued profile for household spending. With
housing activity declining markedly as anticipated and household
debt considerations becoming more important, the Bank expects
household expenditures to decelerate to a pace closer to the rate
of income growth over the projection horizon. Overall, the
composition of demand in Canada is expected to shift away from
government and household expenditures towards business investment
and net exports. The strength of net exports will be sensitive to
currency movements, the expected recovery in productivity growth,
and the prospects for external demand.  Inflation in Canada has been slightly below the Bank’s July
projection. The recent moderation in core inflation is consistent
with the persistence of significant excess supply and a
deceleration in the growth of unit labour costs. The Bank judges
that the output gap is slightly larger and that the economy will
return to full capacity by the end of 2012 rather than the
beginning of that year, as had been anticipated in July. The
inflation outlook has been revised down and both total CPI and
core inflation are now expected to converge to 2 per cent by the
end of 2012, as excess supply in the economy is gradually
absorbed and inflation expectations remain well-anchored.  Reflecting all of these factors, the Bank has decided to
maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. This
leaves considerable monetary stimulus in place, consistent with
achieving the 2 per cent inflation target in an environment of
significant excess supply in Canada.  At this time of transition in the global recovery, with a
weaker U.S. outlook, constraints beginning to moderate growth in
emerging-market economies, and domestic considerations that are
expected to slow consumption and housing activity in Canada, any
further reduction in monetary policy stimulus would need to be
carefully considered.  Information note: A full update of the Bank’s outlook for
the economy and inflation, including risks to the projection,
will be published in the MPR on 20 October 2010. The next
scheduled date for announcing the overnight rate target is 7
December 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  