-- Banks Pay 30% Less Interest on Yuan Debt in Hong Kong
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-20T07:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/banks-yuan-debt-costs-30-cheaper-in-hong-kong-china-credit.html
Banks are paying about 30 percent
less interest on yuan-denominated debt sold in Hong Kong than
they pay in Shanghai as faster currency appreciation fuels
overseas demand for the securities.  The average yield in the city is 1.77 percent, according to
data from the Treasury Markets Association, which tracks 19
outstanding issues that have maturities of no more than four
years. That includes bonds sold by state-controlled lenders
including China Development Bank and Bank of China Ltd. The
average rate in China for one- to three-year bonds issued by
government-linked companies is 2.60 percent, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s China Quasi-Government Index.  China is encouraging domestic lenders to sell debt in Hong
Kong to broaden the appeal of holding its currency overseas as
it seeks to reduce reliance on the dollar for international
trade and finance.  Yuan deposits  in the city more than doubled
to a record 130 billion yuan ($20 billion) in the first eight
months of 2010.  “The demand for renminbi assets is much higher offshore,”
said  Arthur Lau , a Hong Kong-based fixed-income fund manager at
JPMorgan Asset Management, which oversees $1.3 trillion. “The
issuer has an advantage and everyone expects the deposits, the
funding side, will continue to grow at a very fast pace.”  Strengthening Yuan  The yuan strengthened 1.7 percent in September, the most
since 2005, and has appreciated a further 0.6 percent this month
to 6.6520 per dollar in Shanghai amid U.S. calls for China to
allow faster gains. It will rise 5.2 percent more by the end of
2011, according to the median forecast of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  China raised its benchmark lending and deposit rates for
the first time since 2007 after the markets closed yesterday.
The one-year deposit rate will increase to 2.5 percent from 2.25
percent, the People’s Bank of China said on its website. The
lending rate will rise to 5.56 percent from 5.31 percent.  Yuan forwards were little changed, with the 12-month non-
deliverable contract trading at 6.4442, compared with 6.4358
before the announcement. That indicates traders are betting on a
3.3 percent appreciation in the coming 12 months.  Pressure for the yuan to gain may increase after the boost
in interest rates,  Dariusz Kowalczyk , a Hong Kong-based senior
economist and strategist for Credit Agricole CIB, said in an
interview yesterday. Data to be released in Beijing may show
inflation climbed to 3.6 percent in September, median forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey show.  Asset Bubbles  “The market was unprepared,” he said. “Probably there
will be more portfolio inflows into China and the currency will
gain in the non-deliverable forward market. They have must have
decided to be tougher on inflation and stimulate savings,
because otherwise there will be asset bubbles.”  In the same way that yuan bonds command a premium in Hong
Kong, so too does the currency. The spot rate in the city’s
offshore market was 6.4915 as of 3:24 p.m. local time, 2.5
percent more than the onshore rate. That’s the biggest gap since
Bloomberg began tracking the rate two months ago. Overseas
entities can only buy yuan on the mainland if they have
investment proposals or trade transactions approved by Chinese
regulators.  China’s debt market is “basically closed” to global
investors because investment quotas are all being used to buy
equities, according to Pacific Investment Management Co., which
runs the world’s biggest bond fund. That leaves Newport, Beach,
California-based Pimco with no alternative but to gain exposure
via offshore markets, Chief Operating Officer  Douglas Hodge  said
in an Oct. 14 interview.  Cheaper Funds  Asia Development Bank raised 1.2 billion yuan by selling
10-year bonds in Hong Kong yesterday. The 2.85 percent notes
were priced at 1.43 percentage points less than the current 4.28
percent yield on 10-year debt it sold last year in China’s
domestic bond market, according to Chinabond and Bloomberg data.  “It is likely to be cheaper offshore than onshore because
you offer it to a more diversified group of investors so you are
addressing a bigger demand,” ADB Treasurer  Thierry de Longuemar 
said in an interview yesterday. The Manila-based lender may sell
more yuan debt in Hong Kong within a year, he said, predicting
that the yield gap between China’s onshore and offshore debt
markets will close as capital controls are relaxed in the coming
decade.  China Development Bank plans to sell as much as 5 billion
yuan of notes due November 2013 in Hong Kong. The offering
priced to yield 2.7 percent, according to Bloomberg data. That
compares with the 2.87 percent yield investors demand to hold
its similar-maturity bonds trading in the domestic Chinese
market, according to Chinabond prices.  “It’s cheaper to raise funds in Hong Kong,”  Gao Jian ,
vice governor of China Development Bank said at an Oct. 18
briefing in Hong Kong. The lender is China’s second-largest
issuer of bonds after the Ministry of Finance.  Global Average  Financial institutions worldwide pay an average 2.49
percent on one- to three-year debt, according to Bank of
America’s Global Broad Market Financial Index, which tracks more
than 1,000 bonds globally from issuers including France’s Credit
Agricole CIB, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. and
Barclays Plc.  The Export Import Bank of China’s 3 billion yuan of 3.4
percent notes due September 2011 in Hong Kong yield 2.49 percent,
according to Treasury Markets Association prices. That compares
with a 3.26 percent rate on 15 billion yuan of notes due
November 2011 it issued in China, according to Chinabond.  The average yield on bonds due October 2011 that the
Chinese government sold in Hong Kong is 1.62 percent, according
to TMA data. That compares with the 1.97 percent yield investors
demand to hold similar-maturity notes listed in Shanghai and
Shenzhen, according to Chinabond prices. The yield rose one
basis point yesterday.  Bond Risk  Chinese government dollar bond risk fell to a two-year low
last week, according to traders of credit-default swaps.  Five-
year contracts  on the nation’s debt have dropped 20 percent in
the past month, according to CMA prices. The swap contracts rose
5 basis points to 62 basis points yesterday, CMA prices show.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  Yuan Opportunities  International Finance Corp., the World Bank’s private
investment arm, plans to sell about 100 million yuan of five-
year bonds in Hong Kong, according to  Nina Shapiro , IFC’s
Treasurer. IFC set up a yuan-denominated bond program in Hong
Kong to fund projects that support rural development in the
country, the company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “There’s a lot of money coming from outside China,
including in Hong Kong, that would like to be invested in the
yuan because of the future appreciation,” said  David Marshall ,
an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in Singapore. “There is big
money looking for that opportunity in Hong Kong and few
available investments.”  -- Henry Sanderson ,  Shelley Smith . With assistance from
 Andrea Wong  in Hong Kong. Editors:  James Regan ,  Sandy Hendry ,
 Sharon L. Lynch .  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Shelley Smith; in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6623 or
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  