-- BOE Case for More Stimulus Is `Weaker Than It Was,' Niesr Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/bank-of-england-case-to-add-stimulus-weaker-than-it-was-institute-says.html
The Bank of England should refrain
from increasing stimulus until next year and take more time to
judge the pace of economic recovery, the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research said.  “There’s no reason for the Bank of England to do anything
in the next three months,”  Ray Barrell , Niesr’s acting
director, told a press conference in London yesterday as he
presented the group’s quarterly economic forecasts. “Growth in
the second and third quarters of this year has been stronger
than we anticipated three months ago. The case for further
quantitative easing now is weaker than it was.”  Central bank Governor  Mervyn King  said yesterday that some
gauges of U.K. inflation are “extremely subdued,” signaling
that he may be open to stepping up bond purchases. The Monetary
Policy Committee is split three ways on the need for stimulus,
with  Adam Posen  arguing for more asset buying and  Andrew Sentance  favoring higher interest rates to tame inflation.  “They should wait three months first to check that we
don’t actually have demand exploding,” Barrell said, “What if
we suddenly find QE has been much more effective than we ever
thought? We really don’t know, we’re in a world we don’t
understand.”  Economic expansion probably slowed to 0.5 percent in the
three months through September, and growth will probably trough
at about 0.2 percent in the second quarter of next year, the
London-based institute, whose clients include the Bank of
England and the British Treasury, said in a statement today.  GDP Report  Niesr had previously forecast the economy would fail to
grow in the third quarter. The Office for National Statistics
will release its first estimate of gross domestic product for
the period on Oct. 26.  “The chances of negative output growth in 2011 are about
one in five,” Niesr said in the report. “Hence a double-dip
recession is unlikely.”  The economy will grow 1.6 percent this year, compared with
a July forecast of 1.3 percent, and expand at the same pace in
2011, today’s report showed. Still, real disposable income will
fall 0.8 percent this year, and decline 0.6 percent in 2011,
Niesr said. It forecast  unemployment  will rise next year,
peaking at 8.7 percent at the end of 2011, or 2.8 million
people.  The impact of the government’s planned spending cuts may
force the Bank of England to add stimulus, Barrell said.  “If fiscal policy has been slowing growth beyond capacity
then monetary policy has to speed it up again,” he said. “If
growth remains below forecast, the Bank of England will have no
option.”  Spending Review  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will announce
details of the spending cuts, the deepest since World War II, at
12.30 p.m. today in London.  Barrell said it was unlikely that Osborne would achieve the
scale of the cuts planned, and may be forced to raise taxes by
as much as 2 percent of GDP by the end of this parliament.
Barrell estimates about half to two-thirds of Osborne’s planned
cuts will be implemented.  “Revenue projection are already optimistic and the
spending projections are already optimistic,” he said. “If
they don’t get the spending cuts, they’ve got to raise taxes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  