-- Bank of America Accused of Racketeering in Foreclosure Lawsuit in Indiana
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/bank-of-america-s-countrywide-accused-of-racketeering-in-homeowners-suit.html
Bank of America Corp.  and its
Countrywide Home Loans unit were accused of racketeering in a
 lawsuit  filed by two Indiana residents claiming that perjured
affidavits were used to foreclose on their home.  Dwayne Ransom Davis and Melisa Davis filed the complaint
yesterday in federal court in Indianapolis. Their lawyer,  Irwin Levin , confirmed the filing in a phone interview. The filing
couldn’t be independently verified.  “The defendants and their cohorts engaged in a pattern of
racketeering activity in which they routinely and repeatedly
prepared perjured affidavits in order to rapidly churn
foreclosures,” the couple said in the complaint.  Bank of America , the largest U.S. lender, resumed
foreclosures on Oct. 18, after a 10-day nationwide pause to
review more than 100,000 cases.  “Our assessment shows underlying information provided as
the basis for our past foreclosure decisions is accurate,”  Rick Simon , a spokesman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank,
said in an e-mailed statement earlier yesterday.  Simon was responding then to an announcement by  Tom Dart ,
sheriff of Cook County, Illinois, which includes Chicago, that
he will halt foreclosure evictions starting Oct. 25 unless Bank
of America and two other lenders provide him with assurances
that the proceedings are being lawfully pursued.  “To my knowledge, we have not seen this suit and cannot
comment on it,” Simon said of the Davis case in a later phone
interview yesterday.  ‘Robo-Signers’  The Davises accuse the lenders of using “robo-signers,”
people who sign affidavits attesting to facts underlying
foreclosures without actual knowledge of those facts, to push
through paperwork to take their home in Knightstown, Indiana.  While the borrowers aren’t asking the court to reverse
their foreclosure, they’re seeking compensatory damages tripled
under federal racketeering laws, as well as class action, or
group, status to sue on behalf of anyone whose home was
allegedly taken since October 2006 under similar circumstances.  Levin said the group might include hundreds of thousands of
people.  The case is Davis v. Countrywide Home Loans Inc.,
10-cv-01303, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana
(Indianapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 