-- Basel Committee Agrees on Liquidity Rules for Banks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-10-19T14:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/basel-banking-regulators-reach-agreement-on-banks-minimum-liquidity-rules.html
Banks will have until 2015 to fully
implement rules on how much cash and liquid securities they must
hold to gird against a funding shortage in a crisis, the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  said.  The rules are part an overhaul of bank capital requirements
the Basel Committee is working on to prevent another financial
crisis. Banks rallied in European trading after the committee,
the global financial standard setter, also said it would review
the rules to make sure they aren’t too onerous.  “The committee is confirming that it’s backing away from
implementing a stringent liquidity rule in the foreseeable
future,” said  Carlos Egea , a banking analyst at Morgan Stanley
in London. “If the initial proposals had been adopted, it would
have been very difficult for many European banks to sustain the
size of their balance sheets and therefore their current
business models.”  Basel Chairman  Nout Wellink  said following a meeting of the
regulators in Seoul today, that the committee was taking a
“common sense” approach to introducing the ratio. He said that
the committee had to be “careful” because it didn’t know the
exact effect of the ratio.  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index
rose as much as 2.2 percent, on optimism greater clarity about
the rules will allow banks to free up funds, before giving up
some of its gains.  Capital Rules  Simon Hills , executive director for prudential capital and
risk at the British Bankers’ Association, said that the Basel
Committee had “reaffirmed its commitment” to make adjustments
to the liquidity ratio. The BBA was “pleased” with the outcome
of the meeting, he said in an e-mailed statement.  In a report to Group of 20 countries, the committee also
said that “systemically important” banks should be subject to
tougher capital obligations than other parts of the banking
industry. Wellink said the Basel Committee may publish
additional rules for systemically important banks by mid-2011.  The liquidity standard will set out how much cash and
readily saleable securities banks must hold to protect
themselves from insolvency during a 30-day shock.  “Certain banks are sitting on far too much liquidity,”
said  Simon Maughan , an analyst at MF Global in London. “They
can start putting that to work. Uncertainty about funding
requirements is the single-biggest thing constraining loan
growth.”  2015  The standard will be phased in starting in 2011 and take
effect in 2015, following an observation period, the committee
said. Regulators will assess the impact that the liquidity ratio
would have on banks’ balance sheets and modify it if necessary.  The regulators didn’t set out a specific liquidity ratio.
The committee will present details on this before the end of
this year.  The committee said it was working with the Financial
Stability Board to develop capital standards for the largest
banks that may include “combinations of capital surcharges,
contingent capital and bail-in debt.”  Bail-in debt refers to arrangements when bondholders take
losses when banks face financial difficulties.  Members of the Basel Committee and the FSB are divided over
how to curb risk taking by their biggest banks. France and
Germany are resisting a surcharge for big lenders, while the
U.K., U.S., and Switzerland advocate the approach. The FSB will
discuss the matter at a meeting on Oct. 20 in Seoul.  Banks Treated ‘Differently’  The Association for Financial Markets in Europe, a lobby
organization for the banking industry, opposes “designating
specific firms as systemically important and treating them
differently,” said  Rob McIvor , a spokesman for the group.  He said investors would gravitate to banks deemed to be
systemically important on the assumption that governments would
always save them from insolvency.  “It creates an uneven playing field between banks,”
McIvor said.  Regulators of the 27-nation Basel Committee reached an
agreement on Sept. 12 on new rules that more than double capital
requirements for banks over eight years. G-20 governments last
year asked the Basel Committee to overhaul bank capital
requirements to prevent a repeat of the financial crisis.  Chris De Noose , managing director of the European Savings
Bank Group said the industry remained concerned that the Basel
reforms may be harmful to the economic recovery.  “There is a risk that the reforms will prove counter-
productive if they weaken those parts of the financial sector
which have already proven themselves as a stabilizing force,”
he said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net 
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  