-- Beltone Expects Shares to Start Trading Next Month, CEO Aladdin Saba Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2010-10-19T11:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/beltone-expects-shares-to-start-trading-next-month-ceo-aladdin-saba-says.html
Beltone Financial , an Egyptian
investment bank with more than 20 billion Egyptian pounds ($3.5
billion) in assets under management, expects its shares to begin
trading next month after completion of a share-transfer plan.  Shareholders are entitled to expect such a step, Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Aladdin Saba  said in an interview in
Cairo yesterday. “You can’t keep them blocked in a structure
for no good reason.”  Beltone had delayed the move while it was in talks to merge
with  Pioneers Holding , a securities firm. The two companies
abandoned the transaction in July, saying they had failed to
reach agreement on strategy. Beltone is listed on the Egyptian
Exchange, though its shares don’t trade because they are held by
a limited number of investors.  With offices in six cities including New York, Beltone
offers investment banking, asset management, private equity,
brokerage and research services. It competes with  EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE , Egypt’s biggest publicly traded investment bank.  Beltone expects to complete an internal reorganization
needed for the share-transfer plan by the start of November, and
will transfer the shares “a week or 10 days after that,” Saba
said. About 40 percent of the company will be traded, he said.  Egypt’s benchmark  EGX30  stock index has gained 10 percent
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Beltone may receive a license as an exchange-traded fund
before the end of the year,  Khaled Seyam , the chairman of the
Egyptian Exchange, said in September. The funds, known as ETFs,
trade like stocks and allow investors to track indexes and make
bets on whether they will rise or fall.  ‘Huge Demand’  The firm plans to start “an open-ended fund” when it
receives the license, Saba said.  “There is a huge demand, because you have different
categories of investors who would be interested,” he said.
“You have the retail investors who are interested in getting
exposure to the market. You have the traders who would like to
hedge their exposure to certain stocks, then you have the
professional institutional investors.”  Beltone may also offer Islamic finance services after
Egypt’s financial markets regulator issues its first guidelines
on sukuk, or Islamic bonds, next year, Saba said.  The  Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority  plans to issue
the guidelines in the first quarter of 2011, Chairman Ziad Bahaa
El-Din, said in an interview on Oct. 7.  “A big proportion of Gulf investors would rather have
Islamic investments,” Saba said. “We would cater for them. We
think it’s a market that you cannot ignore.” He said the bank
is looking at several possible Islamic finance structures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 