-- BHP Iron Ore Output Gains 6% on Mine Expansions to Meet Demand
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n
-- 2010-10-19T23:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/bhp-iron-ore-output-increases-6-on-mine-expansions-to-meet-steel-demand.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
largest mining company, said first-quarter iron-ore production
rose 6 percent as it expands mining in Western Australia to
meet steel demand.  Output was 32.0 million metric tons in the three months
ended Sept. 30, compared with 30.1 million tons a year ago, the
Melbourne-based company said today in a statement. Production of
petroleum, the company’s third-biggest earning unit, gained 3
percent to a record.  BHP wants to nearly double iron-ore production to 240
million tons a year by 2013 to meet demand from China, the
biggest metals consumer. The company said most of its metal
mines are operating at full capacity because of strong demand.  “The numbers look pretty good,” said  Chris Weston , a
Melbourne-based institutional dealer at IG Markets. “The
underlying business for the company looks pretty good.”  BHP dropped 1.3 percent to A$40.63 in Sydney at 10:07 a.m.
local time compared with a 0.8 percent drop in the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index. There are 12  “buy” ratings , four “holds”
and zero “sells”, according to Bloomberg data.  “BHP Billiton remains positive on the prospects for many
of its core commodities and the underlying performance of its
business due to strength in the emerging economies and the
ongoing delay in the supply side response,” BHP said in the
statement, that also noted uncertainty in developed economies.  Biggest Earner  Sales of iron ore  contributed 21 percent of BHP’s revenue
in the year ended June 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. BHP is spending $4.8 billion on the fifth part of
the so-called Rapid Growth Projects that will add 50 million
tons. The fourth stage of the expansion program boosted output
in the quarter, it said today.  BHP and Rio Tinto Group this week abandoned a joint venture
to combine their Pilbara iron ore operations that would have
saved them $10 billion.  Metal prices  gained 23 percent in the quarter, according to
the London Metal Exchange index, a measure of six metals
including copper, aluminum and nickel. The cost of 62 percent
iron ore delivered to the Chinese port of Tianjin, which fell to
a six-month low on July 14, climbed 2 percent during the quarter
to $141.40 a ton. It was $152.2 a ton on Oct. 19, according to
The Steel Index.  Coal, Petroleum  Iron ore is likely to extend gains through the fourth
quarter as Chinese buyers and other consumers restock, UBS AG
analysts led by Sydney-based Tom  Price  wrote in an Oct. 12
report. China’s economy will likely grow 9.9 percent this year
from a year earlier, and reach 10 percent in 2011, the Caijing
magazine reported this month, citing a study issued by the
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.  Output of coking coal, used to make steel and BHP’s fourth-
biggest earning unit, gained 10 percent to 10.3 million tons.
Heavy rain during September will cut production in the current
quarter, it said today.  Energy coal output was 17.1 million tons, down 5 percent
because of expansion works in Australia and bad weather in
Colombia. Copper output gained 3 percent to 291,200 metric tons.  Total production of petroleum increased to 43.1 million
barrels of oil equivalent. Higher output at the Pyrenees and
North West Shelf operations in Australia offset lower production
from natural field declines and the deep water drilling
moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico. The moratorium was lifted this
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net 
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  