-- Li Ka-Shing Said to Drop Out of U.K. Rail-Link Bid
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-10-20T08:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/billionaire-li-ka-shing-said-to-drop-out-of-u-k-high-speed-rail-link-bid.html
  Hong Kong  billionaire  Li Ka-Shing ’s  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd . dropped out as a
potential bidder for Britain’s high-speed rail link to the
Channel Tunnel, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Cheung Kong Infrastructure, which has studied the asset and
expressed initial interest, decided it probably won’t make a
formal bid, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the discussions are private. Final offers are due by the
end of the month, one of the people said.  Britain’s coalition government is selling a 30-year
concession to run High Speed 1 through state-owned London &
Continental Railways as part of an asset-disposal program aimed
at paying down a 155 billion-pound ($244 billion) budget
deficit. Analysts value the line connecting  London ’s St. Pancras
station with the tunnel to  France  at 1.5 billion pounds.  Wendy Tong Barnes, a spokeswoman at Cheung Kong in Hong
Kong, didn’t return a phone call and an e-mail seeking comment.  The High Speed 1 contract is being tendered as the Channel
Tunnel attracts interest from potential new operators following
European Union moves to liberalize international rail travel.  Germany’s Deutsche Bahn AG ran a test train into St.
Pancras as it seeks to begin services in 2013, while incumbent
operator Eurostar Group Ltd. has ordered 10 units to add new
destinations that may include Amsterdam, Cologne, Frankfurt.  ‘Skeptical’  “There is demonstrated interest, so there’s potential
there,” said Gerald Khoo, a transport analyst at Arbuthnot
Securities in London. “That’s the hook. But I’m a bit skeptical
when it comes to some of these longer services where flying is
still the faster option.”  Paris-based  Groupe Eurotunnel SA , which runs the Channel
Tunnel, is bidding for the High speed 1 link in a group that
includes the infrastructure units of shareholders  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . and  Prudential Plc , Chief Executive Officer Jacques Gounon said July 19. Eurotunnel’s GB Speedrail bid group has
been joined by the U.K.-based Universities Superannuation Scheme
and the infrastructure fund of French government-owned Caisse
des Depots, a spokesman said Aug. 19.  Another offer came from a group including Morgan Stanley’s
infrastructure unit, 3i Infrastructure Plc and the Abu Dhabi
Investment Authority, two people with knowledge of the auction
said Aug. 19. Canada’s Borealis Infrastructure Management teamed
with the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan to make a bid, one of
the people said.  Two-Year High  “We cannot comment on any aspect of the bidding process,”
said Ben Ruse, a spokesman for London & Continental, by phone.  Cheung Kong Infrastructure jumped as much as HK$1.50, or
4.6 percent, to HK$34.40, the highest price in more than two
years. The shares traded at HK$33.90 as of 4:24 p.m. on the Hong
Kong exchange. Eurotunnel slipped 1 percent to 7.07 euros in
Paris.  A deal will probably be concluded by the year’s end, Ruse
said in August.    Allianz SE ,  Europe ’s largest insurer, hired Bank of America
Merrill Lynch to help prepare a bid, the Sunday Times reported
on Oct. 17, without saying where it got the information. Allianz
declined to comment on the report on Oct. 18.  In July, a group led by Cheung Kong Infrastructure agreed
to pay 5.8 billion pounds for Electricite de France SA’s U.K.
power networks, the Hong Kong billionaire’s biggest acquisition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;  Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St. Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net 
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  