-- BNY Mellon, State Street Rely on Takeovers to Offset Rates, Boost Profit
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2010-10-19T20:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/bny-mellon-state-street-rely-on-takeovers-to-offset-rates-boost-profit.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp . and
 State Street Corp ., the largest and third-biggest custody banks,
reported higher third-quarter profit as they relied on takeovers
to offset the impact of near-zero interest rates.  Net income at BNY Mellon increased to $622 million, or 51
cents a share, from a loss of $2.46 billion, or $2.05, a year
earlier, the bank said today from New York. Boston rival State
Street said profit rose 65 percent to $540 million, or $1.08 a
share. Higher assets helped BNY Mellon increase custody fees by
20 percent, while State Street’s rose 19 percent.  “The acquisitions made this quarter,”  Thomas McCrohan , an
analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, wrote in
a research note published today.  The two banks are competing for takeovers and have said the
best opportunities may be in Europe. BNY Mellon, led by  Robert P. Kelly , has made at least four purchases this year. State
Street, under Chief Executive Officer  Joseph “Jay” Hooley ,
added about $643 billion in custody assets in two deals this
spring.  Takeovers, along with winning new clients one-by-one, have
grown in importance for custody banks as other revenue was
squeezed by the near-zero interest rate maintained by the U.S.
Federal Reserve since December 2008.  Marty Mosby , analyst at
Guggenheim Securities in Memphis, Tennessee, said the banks are
unlikely to get a boost from equity markets next year.  Seeking Acquisitions  “They’re not going to get a bounce from the environment to
recapture what they’ve lost,” Mosby said. “But they’ve created
a basis from which they can grow based on continued acquisitions
and inflows of new business.”  BNY Mellon’s assets under custody and administration rose
10 percent to $24.4 trillion, and the amount the bank invests
for clients jumped 18 percent to $1.14 trillion. Fees from asset
management rose 4.8 percent from a year earlier to $696 million.  State Street’s custody and administration assets increased
13 percent to $20.2 trillion. Investment management fees fell
2.7 percent to $213 million, even as the total amount invested
for clients rose 9.7 percent to $1.9 trillion.  Increasing assets with new custody and investment
management clients is “the most important” thing State Street
can do to continue growing revenue in 2011, Hooley said in an
interview. “Given the contorting markets and environment, we’re
putting 100 percent of our effort into driving servicing fees
and investment management fees.”  Hooley said he was confident the firm could keep up its
2010 pace of landing new business. In the first three quarters,
it gathered $1.2 trillion in new assets, he said. He declined to
comment on prospects for additional acquisitions.  Looking at Europe  Kelly, in a telephone interview, predicted that the pace of
deals may pick up over the next few years as banks, especially
in Europe, decide to exit certain businesses.  “We are not expecting anything in the near term,” he said
in the interview.  BNY Mellon dropped as much as 3 percent in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading and fell 63 cents, or 2.4 percent, to
$25.99 at 4 p.m. State Street declined 91 cents, or 2.2 percent,
to $40.30 after losing as much as 4.9 percent, also on the NYSE.  Interest rates near zero squeeze the margin custody banks
earn when they invest or lend deposits received from fund
clients. They also reduce revenue from securities lending and
force the firms to waive some fees on money market funds.  Securities Lending  Net interest revenue in the third quarter at BNY Mellon was
little changed compared with a year earlier at $718 million.
Securities lending fees fell 12 percent at BNY Mellon to $38
million, and by 35 percent to $68 million at State Street.  Fees at the banks’ money management units have suffered as
investors continued to shift from higher-earning equities to
bonds. Clients at State Street Global Advisors withdrew a net $3
billion. Index-based investments, including exchange-traded
funds, attracted $25 billion.  State Street completed the purchases of Mourant
International Finance Administration in the U.K.’s Channel
Islands in April and the securities-servicing unit of Italy’s
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA in May. BNY Mellon added PNC Financial
Services Group Inc.’s global investment servicing business in
July and Germany’s BHF Asset Servicing GmbH in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net 
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  