-- Bank of New York Mellon Posts Third-Quarter Earnings Per Share of 61 Cents
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2010-10-19T13:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/bny-mellon-third-quarter-profit-rises-as-market-rebound-lifts-assets-fees.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. 
reported a third-quarter profit after a loss a year earlier as
takeovers and the financial market recovery boosted assets at
the world’s largest custody bank.  Net income rose to $622 million, or 51 cents a share, from
a loss of $2.46 billion, or $2.05, a year earlier when earnings
were hurt by cost to restructure its debt portfolio, BNY Mellon
said today in a statement. Analysts had forecast earnings of 54
cents a share, according to the average of 14 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  Assets under management and under custody rose to a record
after Chief Executive Officer  Robert P. Kelly  made at least four
acquisitions this year. Revenue growth was hurt by lower income
from foreign exchange and other trading, and income from money
market funds and lending to customers was squeezed after the
U.S. Federal Reserve held its main lending rate close to zero
since December 2008.  “It was a weak quarter for revenue growth,” said  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with RBC Capital Markets. He said the
shortfall was due to diminished trading volumes and the impact
of low interest rates.  BNY Mellon  fell  71 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $25.91 at 9:34
in New York Stock Exchange trading.  Assets Rise  Assets under custody and administration rose 10 percent to
$24.4 trillion. Assets under management climbed to $1.14
trillion, an 18 percent gain from the same quarter a year ago.
The increases were driven by a combination of higher market
values and acquisitions, the bank said in its statement.  The bank’s money management business attracted a net $11
billion of long-term deposits and $18 billion of short-term
deposits during the quarter.  Foreign exchange and other trading revenue for the quarter
was $146 million, a drop of $100 million or 41 percent from the
third quarter of 2009. Net interest revenue and the net interest
margin fell from the previous quarter, the bank said.  BNY Mellon has said a 1 percentage point increase in short-
term interest rates would add $500 million to its pretax income
over 12 months.  The bank last quarter completed its purchase of Toronto-
based wealth management company i3 Advisors Inc., and closed the
253 million-euro ($352 million) takeover of BHF Asset Servicing
GmbH to expand in Europe. In February, it bought PNC Financial
Services Group Inc.’s global-investment servicing business for
$2.31 billion, adding hedge-fund and mutual-fund clients.  Acquisition Strategy  Kelly, in a telephone interview, predicted that the pace of
deals may pick up over the next few years as banks, especially
in Europe, decide to exit certain businesses.  “We are not expecting anything in the near term,” he said
in the interview.  Boston-based rival State Street Corp., the third-biggest
custody bank, agreed in December to acquire the securities-
servicing unit of Italy’s Intesa Sanpaolo SpA for 1.28 billion
euros ($1.79 billion) in cash to expand outside the U.S.  State Street today reported a 21 percent gain in third-
quarter operating profit, helped by acquisitions and cost
cutting. Profit rose to $427 million, or 86 cents a share, from
$354 million, or 71 cents, a year earlier, State Street said in
a statement. Operating revenue rose 8.4 percent while expenses
climbed 3.1 percent.  Both banks are benefiting after the best September for U.S.
stocks in 71 years lifted assets and the fees for overseeing
them. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 8.8 percent last
month, the best September since 1939.  Custody banks earn fees for keeping records, tracking
performance and lending securities to institutional investors
such as mutual funds, pensions and hedge funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  