-- King Says Some U.K. Inflation Gauges Are `Extremely Subdued'
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-10-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/boe-governor-king-says-some-u-k-inflation-indicators-extremely-subdued-.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said that some gauges of U.K.  inflation  are “extremely
subdued,” signaling that he may favor stepping up bond
purchases.  Officials are “conscious that the continuing high level of
inflation poses the risk that inflation expectations may move
up,” King said in a speech late yesterday in Dudley, England.
Still, the danger that slack in the  economy  will push price-
growth below the bank’s target is “at least as large.”  Policy makers have split three ways ahead of a public-
spending squeeze that finance minister  George Osborne  will set
out today. King said the bank must be ready to adapt as the
economy faces slower growth while it rebalances toward savings
and exports in what he said would be a “SOBER” decade of
“Savings, Orderly Budgets, and Equitable Rebalancing.”  “Not only can monetary policy play a role in smoothing the
rebalancing process, it needs to do so if the outlook for
inflation is to remain in line with the 2 percent target in the
medium term,” King said.  Osborne’s Comprehensive Spending Review will set out the
details of the biggest U.K. public spending cuts since World War
II to tackle a record budget deficit. The squeeze may threaten a
recovery that data showed cooled in the third quarter.  Bumpy  King also called on global finance chiefs to work together
to limit growing economic imbalances before they spark
protectionist policies. Countries with low savings must reduce
spending as those with large current account surpluses encourage
domestic growth and stop relying on exports for growth, he said.  In the U.K., “we will have to save more, even though the
immediate concern is to ensure a recovery in demand,” King
said. “But as demand rebalances, we should expect some
volatility in inflation as well as in the path of output.”  Inflation  held at 3.1 percent in September, exceeding the
government’s 3 percent limit for a seventh month. King said
there are “temporary” factors at play, including the decline
in the pound, a sales-tax increase and energy prices.  The pound’s decline of about a quarter on a  trade-weighted
basis  since the start of 2007 may also aid the U.K. economy’s
rebalancing, King said. “Unless the fall in domestic spending
coincides with the necessary increase in net exports, the path
for the economy will be bumpy,” he said.  “The conditions are in place to support a rebalancing at
home,” King said. “In particular the past depreciation of
sterling will make U.K.-produced goods more competitive at home
and abroad.”  ‘People Disagree’  Policy makers  Adam Posen  and  Andrew Sentance  have clashed
on the economic outlook, with Posen calling on the central bank
to increase its emergency bond-purchase plan and his colleague
arguing for a “gradual” withdrawal of stimulus measures to
fight inflation.  “Because there are risks on both sides of the outlook,
reasonable people can disagree,” King said. “Unfortunately, we
do not have a crystal ball. So in setting policy today the only
coherent approach is to balance those two risks.”  While there are upside and downside inflation risks,
indicators such as broad money growth, wages, and the pressure
of demand on supply “all remain extremely subdued,” he said.  Former Bank of England policy maker  Kate Barker  said this
week that officials risk stoking inflation with little benefit
to growth if they expand stimulus. She also said that the
Monetary Policy Committee’s strict numerical mandate may have
limited its capacity to address the factors leading to the
financial crisis.  Not NICE  “The next decade will not be nice,” King said, referring
to his “NICE” label for the 10 years through the early 2000s
when the economy posted so-called Non-Inflationary Constant
Expansion. “But we can influence the outcome, with monetary
policy still a potent weapon.”  “History suggests that after a financial crisis the
hangover lasts for a while,” King said. “A sober decade may
not be fun but it is necessary for our economic health.”  The pound fell about 1 percent against the dollar yesterday
as investors speculated that today’s release of minutes from the
MPC meeting on Oct. 7 may suggest further easing is likely. The
currency dropped to the lowest in almost a month and traded at
$1.5718 as of 5:39 p.m. in London.  The minutes are due to be released at 9:30 a.m. local time.
The Office for National Statistics will publish data on the U.K.
government’s net borrowings for September at the same time.  The central bank has kept its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low of 0.5 percent since March 2009 and bought 200
billion pounds ($315 billion) of government bonds to pump money
through markets during the financial crisis. King said yesterday
there is “too little money” in the economy.  “The amount of money in the economy as a whole -- broad
money -- is now barely growing at all. That is restraining
activity and pushing down the outlook for inflation,” King
said. Still, “it may be some while before inflation returns to
target.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  