-- Boehringer Wins FDA Approval for First Warfarin Rival
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2010-10-20T16:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/boehringer-wins-u-s-approval-for-first-rival-to-blood-thinner-warfarin.html
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH  won U.S.
approval to sell Pradaxa, beating drugmakers including  Bayer AG 
and  Johnson & Johnson  to the market with the first rival to the
half-century-old blood thinner warfarin.  The Food and Drug Administration cleared the drug for
patients with an irregular heartbeat that may raise the risk of
a stroke, the agency said yesterday in a statement.  Pfizer Inc. ,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. , Bayer and J&J were
racing Boehringer, the world’s biggest family-owned drugmaker,
to win U.S. approval for a warfarin replacement, a market Bayer
has said may reach $12 billion to $15 billion a year. Pradaxa
sales may reach $4 billion a year by 2020, according to an
estimate from  Jack Scannell , a London-based analyst for Sanford
C. Bernstein Ltd.  The approval “crystallizes what was already expected to be
a high hurdle” for competitors including Bayer and J&J’s drug
Xarelto, Scannell wrote in a note to investors today.  Boehringer will start selling Pradaxa in the U.S. within
days and will market the blood thinner as reducing the risk of a
stroke more than warfarin, Wa’el Hashad, vice president of
cardiovascular and metabolic disease marketing, said in a
telephone interview today.  “We believe Pradaxa will be a blockbuster product,”
Hashad said, using industry parlance for medicines with annual
sales of more than $1 billion. The Ingelheim, Germany-based
company declined to provide specific sales or market estimates.  Bayer fell 1.3 percent, or 71 cents, to 54.18 euros in
Frankfurt trading.  Rat Poison  Doctors have relied on aspirin and warfarin, developed as a
rat poison and approved as a medicine in June 1954, to ward off
strokes in 2.2 million Americans with the irregular heartbeat
known as atrial fibrillation. Because of fears of spontaneous
bleeding, a known side effect of blood thinners, some patients
aren’t being treated at all,  Steven Nissen , head of cardiology
at the Cleveland Clinic, said at an FDA advisory panel meeting
in September.  The Boehringer pill is better than warfarin, which requires
regular blood tests to ensure a safe, effective dose, most of
the advisory panel members said.  Pradaxa is already sold in Europe to prevent clots after
hip and knee surgery, as is Xarelto.  The FDA approved the Boehringer medicine in 75-milligram
and 150-milligram capsules, the agency said in its statement.  Monitoring Unnecessary  “Unlike warfarin, which requires patients to undergo
periodic monitoring with blood tests, such monitoring is not
necessary for Pradaxa,” said Norman Stockbridge, director of
the division of cardiovascular and renal products for the FDA’s
 Center for Drug Evaluation and Research .  Competitors may benefit because the lower dosage was
approved specifically for patients with severe kidney impairment
and isn’t likely to be used as a tailored dosage for people who
face a lower stroke risk, Scannell said in his note.  Bayer, based in Leverkusen, Germany, and New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based J&J are expected to present results of a trial of
Xarelto against warfarin in atrial fibrillation patients at the
 American Heart Association  conference in November.  Pfizer and Bristol-Myers, both based in New York, are
testing a third experimental warfarin replacement called
apixaban. The two U.S. drugmakers are expected to present trial
results comparing apixaban and warfarin next year.  Warfarin replacement will be such a big market that each of
the competitors may exceed $1 billion in annual sales if
approved,  Seamus Fernandez , a New York-based analyst for Leerink
Swann & Co., wrote in a note to investors on Oct. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington, D.C. at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  