-- BOJ's `Sense of Crisis' Led to Latest Easing, Former Official Hirano Says
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2010-10-19T07:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/boj-s-sense-of-crisis-led-to-latest-easing-former-official-hirano-says.html
The Bank of Japan’s latest monetary
easing steps reflect its growing concern about the economic
outlook, and it could expand the program further if needed, a
former central bank official said.  “There’s an extreme sense of crisis at the Bank of
Japan,”  Eiji Hirano , formerly a BOJ executive director in
charge of international affairs, said today in an interview in
Tokyo. He said the central bank is worried about the worse-than-
expected performance this year of other developed economies and
a lack of clear prospects for increasing Japanese demand.  The BOJ on Oct. 5 cut its target rate to as low as zero,
pledged to keep policy easy until deflation is in sight, and
announced a 5 trillion-yen ($61 billion) fund to buy bonds and
assets including exchange-traded funds and real-estate
investment trusts. Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  has said the fund
could be expanded as a further easing measure.  That combination of steps “went far beyond what the BOJ
had been doing” and came even though the bank had expressed
reluctance to cut policy rates to zero or to start quantitative
easing, said Hirano, 60, who is now the executive vice president
of Toyota Financial Services Corp. “The BOJ could expand the
amount of the asset purchase program if conditions worsen.”  It’s also notable that the central bank embarked on steps
to increase credit at a time when the nation’s financial system
is stable, he said. While the yen’s surge against the dollar was
a factor in the decision, it wasn’t the main reason the central
bank relaxed policy, he said.  Strong Yen  “The strong yen is one reason for the moves, but it isn’t
the biggest one,” he said. “The overseas environment is worse
than the BOJ had been expecting, with high downside risks. And
in Japan, it isn’t clear how the country will rebuild itself.”  Finance ministers and central bankers from Group of 20
nations will meet in South Korea later this week at a time when
competitive devaluation of currencies threatens a cooling global
recovery. The prospect of slower U.S. growth and further easing
by the Federal Reserve pushed the dollar to a 15-year low
against the yen last week.  Hirano said G-20 members will likely discuss how monetary
easing in advanced nations is causing money to flow into
emerging nations as investors search for higher yielding assets.
China’s currency may also be a topic, he said.  “People say the monetary easing race is behind competitive
currency devaluation,” Hirano said. “It’s not as if nations
are competing against each other to ease policy. There are
situations where the U.S., euro area and Japan have to ease
boldly.”  Japanese companies and individuals are unwilling to invest
because the growing public debt burden and aging population mean
the outlook is bleak and taxes will have to increase, according
to Hirano.  The yen’s advance has dented confidence in Japan’s export-
driven economy. Industrial production unexpectedly declined for
a third month in August and the Tankan survey of confidence
showed large manufacturers forecast that pessimists will
outnumber optimists by year-end. The government today lowered
its assessment of the economy for the first time in 20 months,
describing the expansion as “pausing.”  As for China, the former BOJ official said the government’s
biggest concern is inflation because lower-income households are
most affected by higher prices and that risks sparking social
unrest. China could be forced to raise interest rates to combat
inflation, leading to the currency also strengthening, he said.  “A yuan revaluation is just a matter of time,” Hirano
said, noting that the Chinese currency has already strengthened
by about 20 percent since 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
 Kyoko Shimodoi  in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  