-- Boston Scientific Rises After Third-Quarter Profit Beats Analyst Estimates
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-10-20T20:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/boston-scientific-tops-analysts-third-quarter-estimates-for-profit-sales.html
Boston Scientific Corp ., the second-
biggest maker of heart devices, rose to its highest level in
three months after its earnings beat analysts’ estimates.  The Natick, Massachusetts-based company increased 33 cents,
or 5.5 percent, to $6.30 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The shares have  declined  30 percent this
year.  Boston Scientific said late yesterday that third-quarter
earnings excluding certain items were 19 cents, topping the 6
cents projected by 24 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Sales were
in-line with analyst estimates and new products in women’s
health and neurology may help counter decreased demand for the
company’s heart stents, said  Timothy Lee , of Piper Jaffray Cos.  “We are incrementally more positive on Boston Scientific
following” the earnings report, the San Francisco-based analyst
said today in a note to clients. “While we don’t expect a
wholesale change to the company’s growth profile, we could see
low-single digit sales growth in 2011, which would be a step up
from the expected decline in 2010.”  Net income  was $190 million, or 12 cents a share, after a
loss of $94 million, or 6 cents a share, in year-earlier results
that included a charge for legal costs. Revenue fell 5 percent
to $1.92 billion, topping analysts’ estimates of $1.91 billion.
Sales of the company’s drug-coated stents, used to prop open
clogged heart arteries, fell 11 percent to $365 million.  Medtronic Inc. , of Minneapolis, is the world’s biggest
maker of heart devices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 