-- Bovespa Stock Index Retreats on Increased Inflow Tax, China Rate Concern
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-10-19T20:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/bovespa-stock-futures-retreat-on-inflow-tax-china-interest-rate-concern.html
The  Bovespa  stock index fell the
most in 16 weeks on concern rising borrowing costs in China will
hurt demand for commodities while Brazil’s attempts to curb
currency gains will scare off foreign investors.  Vale SA , the iron-ore producer whose top export market is
China, dropped the most since August after the Asian country
raised interest rates for the first time since 2007. State oil
producer  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  sank 4.2 percent as crude
tumbled the most in eight months.  BM&FBovespa SA , which runs the
Sao Paulo exchange, plunged for a second day after the
government raised taxes on some inflows for the second time this
month to prevent currency appreciation.  The  Bovespa  lost 2.6 percent, the most since June 29, to
69,863.58 at the 4 p.m. New York time close. Sixty-three stocks
fell on the index while four rose. The real weakened 0.5 percent
to 1.6827 per dollar.  “The tax didn’t include stocks this time, but there is a
concern that the next measures will directly affect the stock
market,” said  Eduardo Favrin , who oversees about $2.5 billion
as head of equities for HSBC Global Asset Management’s Brazil
unit in Sao Paulo. “We are also following other stock markets,
reacting to the beginning of rate hikes in China.”  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge fell yesterday for the
first time in six sessions on concern prospects for higher
borrowing costs make the longest stretch of weekly gains in 17
months excessive relative to the outlook for earnings. The
 Bovespa  is up 20 percent from a May 20 low.  Higher Tax  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  raised the so-called IOF tax
on foreigners’ investments in fixed-income securities to 6
percent from 4 percent. He also boosted the levy on money
brought into the country to make margin deposits for futures
market trades to 6 percent from 0.38 percent. Countries
worldwide including China and Turkey are seeking to stem
appreciation in their currencies to gain a trade advantage.  “The equity market may well not be spared next time
around” if the real continues to strengthen,  Mauricio Rosal , an
economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc., wrote in a note to
clients today. “New measures should not be ruled out.”  Mantega on Oct. 19 last year imposed a 2 percent tax on
foreigners’ investments in both fixed-income and stocks. The
levy for equity purchases has remained unchanged since then.  BM&FBovespa SA , the operator of Latin America’s biggest
securities exchange, dropped 3.2 percent to 14.05 reais.  ‘Negative Sentiment’  “Negative sentiment could remain weighing on the stock, as
investors become concerned that a similar measure could be
applied to investments in equities,” Bank of America Corp.
analysts led by  Jorg Friedemann  wrote in a note to clients dated
yesterday. They recommend buying the exchange operator as the
decline may be “overdone.”  China unexpectedly raised its one-year lending rate to 5.56
percent from 5.31 percent, the country’s central bank said on
its website. The World Bank lowered its outlook for growth next
year in China and across east Asia, while urging the region’s
officials to ward off asset bubbles, the lender said in a report
today. China is Brazil’s biggest trade partner.  Vale slipped 2.1 percent to 48.08 reais while  Fibria
Celulose SA , the world’s largest pulp producer, fell 3.1 percent
to 27.45 reais.  Petrobras  declined the most in a month, dropping to 25.28
reais as crude tumbled 4.5 percent in New York. Brazil’s
government sent two bills to congress to allow the state company
to raise its 2010 investment to 85.7 billion reais ($51
billion), Valor Economico newspaper reported, without saying
where it got the information.  Homebuilders tumbled, with  Rossi Residencial SA  losing 6.3
percent to 17.16 reais in the biggest drop in five months.  “This industry has been preferred by foreign investors,”
said  Joao Pedro Brugger , who helps oversee $42 million at Leme
Investimentos in Florianopolis, Brazil. Because of the boost in
the IOF tax, “the market may be concerned that the flow of
foreign investment will drop. Any additional measure would be
very negative for the stock market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net 
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  