-- Brazil Steps Up Action in `Currency War,' Seeks Cease-fire
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-10-19T20:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/brazil-steps-up-action-in-currency-war-even-as-mantega-seeks-ceasefire.html
Brazil’s real posted its longest
losing streak in eight weeks after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  raised taxes on foreign inflows for the second time this
month to prevent appreciation and protect exports from what he
called a global “currency war.”  The currency fell 0.5 percent, declining for a fourth
straight day, to 1.6827 per U.S. dollar at 4:21 p.m. New York
time, from 1.6740 yesterday. The currency last declined for four
straight days in the period ended Aug. 24. In the overnight
interest-rate futures market, the yield on the contract due in
January 2012 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point,
to 11.32 percent.  Brazil, Latin America’s largest economy, raised the so-
called IOF tax on foreigners’ investments in fixed-income
securities to 6 percent from 4 percent. It also boosted the levy
on money brought into the country to make margin deposits for
futures market trades to 6 percent from 0.38 percent. Countries
worldwide including China and Turkey are seeking to stem
appreciation in their currencies to gain a trade advantage.  “We can expect more if the Brazilian real doesn’t
depreciate,” said  Diego Donadio , a Latin America strategist at
BNP Paribas in Sao Paulo, in a telephone interview. “Regulatory
risk is going up regarding an expectation that an increase in
taxes can come if the real doesn’t depreciate.”  The moves announced yesterday aim to erode foreigners’
demand for short-term investments and slow the dollar inflows
that have helped push the real up 37 percent since the start of
2009, the biggest advance among Latin American currencies.
Brazil, which has the highest real interest rates in the G-20,
is seeking to restrain its currency as investors seek higher-
yielding assets in emerging markets amid near-zero interest
rates in the U.S., Japan and the euro region.  China Raises Rates  China, Brazil’s biggest trading partner, unexpectedly
raised its benchmark lending and deposit rates for the first
time since 2007 ahead of data that may show inflation
accelerated to the fastest pace in almost two years.  The one-year lending rate will increase to 5.56 percent
from 5.31 percent, effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank of
China said on its website today. The  deposit rate  will increase
to 2.5 percent from 2.25 percent.  The real’s decline today “is explained by the new measure
that raised the IOF tax,” said  Silvio Campos Neto , chief
economist at Banco Schahin SA, in a telephone interview from Sao
Paulo. “Beyond this, China raised interest rates, so these two
generated this movement in the exchange rate this morning.”  ‘Currency War’  “This currency war needs to be deactivated,” Mantega told
reporters late yesterday. “We have to reach some kind of
currency agreement.”  Mantega will likely stay in Brazil to oversee the
implementation of the new measures rather than attend a meeting
of Group of 20 finance ministers in South Korea this week,
according to a spokesperson who declined to be identified citing
the ministry’s communications policy.  South Korea said today it is preparing further measures to
counter capital inflows triggered by low interest rates
overseas. Indonesia’s central bank said it plans to offer term
deposits with longer maturities of three months, six months and
nine months as it seeks to reduce volatility in the rupiah.  Plaza Accord  Mantega cited the Plaza Accord of 1985, when governments
agreed to intervene to devalue the U.S. dollar against the yen
and the German deutsche mark, as the kind of agreement that
might be required. International policy makers failed to narrow
their differences on intervention in currency markets during the
International Monetary Fund’s annual meeting this month.  The higher inflow tax applies to fixed-income investments,
local equity funds, hedge funds and pension funds, the Finance
Ministry said. The measures will go into effect once they’re
published in the country’s official gazette, as soon as today.
Mantega said new efforts to slow the real’s gains may be
implemented if needed, or current measures may be expanded.  The move may not deter the growth of Japanese mutual funds
investing in emerging markets including Brazil, Russia, India
and China, said  Susumu Kato , chief economist in Tokyo for Japan
at Credit Agricole CIB and CLSA.  “Though the higher tax rate could weigh on investment in
Brazilian securities to some extent, I don’t think it will spur
cancellations or lead to a decrease in the number of new funds
being launched because yields are still high,” Kato said.  The Brazilian tax increase announced yesterday was the
second in a month. The currency, which weakened 0.5 percent
yesterday, has gained 0.8 percent since Oct. 4, when Mantega
doubled the IOF tax on foreign investment in fixed-income
securities to 4 percent.  First Attempt  Mantega’s first attempt this month to stem the currency’s
gains via a tax on inflows was thwarted by an announcement from
the Bank of Japan reducing the overnight call rate target to a
range of zero to 0.1 percent, the lowest since 2006.  The taxation on foreign purchases in Brazil “may provide a
temporary relief, but won’t do the job,” said  Arminio Fraga , a
former central bank president and the founder of hedge fund
Gavea Investimentos.  Barclays Capital said the latest tax increase may succeed
where the first one failed. The higher levy will only affect new
flows of money into the country, not deposits already in Brazil.  ‘Whatever It Takes’  “We believe this time will be different,” Barclays
Capital said in a report. “With this new IOF tax hike, the
government is signaling that it will do whatever it takes to
prevent the Brazilian real from appreciating.”  The market may price in a higher risk premium on some
Brazilian assets to reflect fears of further increases in the
tax, the report said.  Barclays said the measure may spark a rally in global real-
denominated bonds as the tax shifts demand for Brazilian assets
outside the country.  The government’s international real-linked bonds due in
2016 have risen faster than its local bonds with similar
maturity since the tariff change on Oct. 4, driving the yield
difference to a seven-month high of 372 basis points, or 3.72
percentage points, yesterday. The gap was 214 points on July 13,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week
additional monetary stimulus may be warranted to boost the
world’s biggest economy. That fueled speculation the Fed will
embark on a second round of quantitative easing next month, even
as officials including Brazil’s central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  complain that low U.S. rates are flooding emerging
markets with liquidity.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
Oct. 17 that volatility in foreign-exchange markets is
“counterproductive.”  Brazil’s central bank increased the benchmark interest rate
to 10.75 percent from a record low 8.75 percent this year to
contain inflation.  “There is nothing the Brazilian government can do to fight
against the record low yield levels in developed economies,”
Bank of America Corp. said in a note to investors. “The
government has engaged in an impossible war.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  