-- Brazil, Emerging Markets Have Already Lost `Currency War,' SocGen Says
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-19T11:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/brazil-emerging-markets-have-already-lost-currency-war-socgen-says.html
Emerging-market countries have
already lost the global currency war and attempts by Brazil and
others to prevent appreciation will have a limited result,
according to Societe Generale SA, France’s second-biggest bank.  “They’ve lost the war before it’s even started,”  Gaelle Blanchard , a London-based emerging-market strategist at Societe
Generale, said in a telephone interview. “Money wants to go
somewhere and the yield is in emerging markets. You can’t stop
that unless you can also stop broad-based dollar weakness.”  Brazil stepped up efforts to curb gains in the real
yesterday by raising its so-called IOF inflow tax to 6 percent
from 4 percent to protect exports from what Finance Minister
Guido Mantega on Sept. 27 called a global “currency war.”
Interest rates near zero in industrialized nations have
encouraged investors to borrow cheaply there and invest in
higher-yielding emerging markets including Brazil, where the
central bank rate is 10.75 percent, the highest in the G-20.  The Brazilian real and South African rand have gained 37
percent and 36 percent versus the dollar, respectively, since
the start of last year, making them the two best-performing
emerging-market currencies in that period. South Africa’s
central bank rate is 6 percent.  The real has appreciated 1.4 percent versus the dollar
since Oct. 4, when Mantega doubled the IOF tax, a levy on
foreign investment in fixed-income securities, to 4 percent. The
rand traded 0.6 percent weaker at 6.9155 per dollar as of 1:01
p.m. in Johannesburg, from a previous close of 6.8724, trimming
the South African currency’s gain in the past two weeks to 1.5
percent.  ‘Kind of Failure’  “Brazil has been very vocal and has implemented measures
to limit currency appreciation, but it’s been a kind of
failure,” said Blanchard. “It might have slowed the move in
the real but it hasn’t made it weaker.”  The risk of keeping interest rates lower for longer as
economic growth picks up is that it may cause “asset price
bubbles,” said Blanchard. “There isn’t an easy solution,” for
emerging markets, as “the solution is really in the dollar and
the U.S.,” Blanchard said.  Speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve will keep
interest rates near zero for longer and increase purchases of
government debt, a process known as quantitative easing, has
boosted emerging currencies.  ‘Small’ Player  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said yesterday
that his nation “will not engage” in currency devaluation.
That suggests it is uncertain whether further quantitative
easing will occur, said Blanchard.  South Africa is a  “small” player in the global currency
war and doesn’t have the resources to influence the value of the
rand,  John Cairns , head of foreign-exchange research at
Johannesburg-based Rand Merchant Bank, wrote in a client note
yesterday.  “What we are seeing is as much dollar weakness as it is
rand gains and there is nothing that the South African Reserve
Bank can do to support the dollar,” Cairns wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  