-- BRIC `Catch Up' Signals Record-Low Bond Yields Will Tumble: Russia Credit
-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-10-20T13:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/bric-catch-up-signals-record-low-bond-yields-will-tumble-russia-credit.html
Russia’s economic rebound is sending
the cost of protecting against a default to the cheapest level
relative to Brazil in five months, a sign  record-low  yields for
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government have further to fall.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Russian debt dropped 25
basis points this month to 134.5, narrowing the gap over Brazil
to 36 yesterday, the tightest since May, according to CMA, a
data provider. Russia’s record-low 3 percent yields on dollar
bonds due in 2015 are 80 basis points above the same-maturity
notes from Brazil.  While Russia’s economic recovery is the slowest among the
so-called BRIC countries, oil above $80 a barrel and a jump in 
foreign currency reserves  to more than $500 billion for the
first time since October 2008 are spurring investor confidence.
As Brazil raised foreign investment taxes for a second time this
month to stem gains in its currency, Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said in Moscow last week that Russia is moving in the
“opposite” direction and reducing exchange-rate intervention.  “This is a market opportunity,” said  Jeremy Brewin , who
helps manage $2 billion of emerging market debt at London-based
Aviva Investors, the fund management arm of the U.K.’s second-
biggest insurer. “Investors over time are going to concentrate
more on Russia.”  Russia’s Baa1 rating from Moody’s Investors Service is two
levels higher than Brazil at Baa3, five steps above the
Philippines at Ba3 and four more than Turkey at Ba2.  ‘Juicy Yields’  Even after  a five-week rally  cut the yield on Russia’s 2015
bonds by 66 basis points, or 0.66 percentage point, the 3
percent rate is above Brazil, the Philippines and Turkey.
Brazil’s dollar securities due in 2015 yielded 2.18 percent
yesterday, the same maturity debt from the Philippines traded at
2.37 percent and Turkey 2015 notes yielded 2.89 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield is 2.3 percent on
Colombia’s 8.25 percent dollar bonds due December 2014, rated
three steps lower than Russia at Ba1.  “The hunt for yields makes Russia a very exciting place to
be,” said  Sergey Dergachev , who helps manage $6 billion of
emerging-market debt at Union Investments in Frankfurt.
“Nowhere in the emerging-market world can you buy strong quasi-
sovereign or blue chip, high-grade debt with such juicy yields.
I do see further room for yield compression.”  In the credit-default swap market, declines in Russia
spreads beat the 12 basis-point drop for Brazil, slide of 7.5
for China and decline of 18 for the State Bank of India, CMA
data show. Russia contracts are trading at the same level as
Turkey and 4 basis points above the Philippines. Colombia swaps
are 34 basis points lower at 100 basis points, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Russia “shouldn’t be trading outside the Philippines,
Colombia or Brazil,” said Brewin.  Asset Sales  Government plans to sell $10 billion of state assets a year
from 2011 and prospects for the country’s accession to the World
Trade Organization are likely to spur foreign investment,
helping Russian debt “catch up” with emerging-market peers,
said  Nikolay Podguzov , head of fixed-income research at VTB
Capital in Moscow.  The government may complete talks on joining the WTO in two
to four months and another six months may be needed for the
formal accession procedure, Kudrin said Oct. 1 in Yalta,
Ukraine.  Transparency, Yukos  Traders of  credit-default swaps  have treated Russia as a
higher risk than Brazil since the Russian five-day war with
Georgia in August 2008 and the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. a month later that triggered the global credit
crisis. Investors pulled a net $200 billion from Russia since
then, according to central bank data.  “Fundamentally Russia is stronger than most of those
countries but the perception of investors in terms of the
economy’s openness and the political risk are less positive,”
 Sebastien de Prinsac , co-head of international debt sales at OAO
Gazprombank, the lending arm of Russia’s gas export monopoly.
“It has been like this for years and it will take years to make
it change.”  Russia ranks 146th on Transparency International’s least
corrupt countries list, worse than Brazil, India and China.
Putin accused Moscow-based steelmaker  OAO Mechel  of price fixing
in 2008 and OAO Yukos Oil Co. was bankrupted during Putin’s
presidency in 2006 after the government claimed more than $30
billion in back taxes.  Russia’s economy shrank by a record 7.9 percent last year
as oil prices fell by more than $110 a barrel from their July
2008 peak. Deputy Economy Ministry  Andrei Klepach  said Oct. 6
that the country will have to “fight” to achieve growth of 3.9
percent to 4.5 percent in the next three years.  Lagging Growth  The International Monetary Fund  forecasts  that Russia’s
economy will grow 4 percent this year, compared with 10.5
percent expansion in China, 9.7 percent in India and 7.5 percent
in Brazil. Growth in Russia will pick up to 4.3 percent next
year, beating Brazil’s 4.1 percent rate, according to the
Washington-based IMF’s October World Economic Outlook.  Russia credit-default swaps rose one basis point today to
139, down from this year’s peak of 217, according to data
provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points to 211,
according to JPMorgan EMBI+ Indexes. That compares with 151 for
debt of similarly rated Mexico and 187 for Brazil.  Brazilian Tax  The so-called  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 52 basis
points below the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-
month high of 105 in February, according to JPMorgan Indexes.  The price of country’s ruble notes due August 2016 was
little changed, leaving the yield 2 basis points higher at 7.15
percent.  The ruble weakened 0.9 percent to 30.8575 per dollar today,
headed for its weakest close since Sept. 23. Non-deliverable
forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to expectations of
currency movements and interest rate differentials and allow
companies to hedge against currency movements, show the ruble at
31.0791 per dollar in three months.  Brazil, Latin America’s largest economy, raised the so-
called IOF tax on foreign investments in fixed-income securities
to 6 percent from 4 percent this week, leading countries
including China and Turkey that are seeking to stem appreciation
in their currencies to gain a trade advantage. Russia took a
step toward the government’s goal of a free floating ruble by
2012 when it widened so-called floating corridor the central
bank uses to guide the ruble last week. The aim is to “increase
flexibility” of the exchange rate, First Deputy Central Bank
Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  told reporters in Moscow on Oct. 13.  Foreign Reserves  Russia’s foreign currency reserves  have increased $46
billion in the past six months, reaching $501.1 billion last
week, the most since October 2008, according to central bank
data.  “Irrespective of the fact that yields are at record low
levels, the potential for spread compression is still very
large,” said  Vladimir Gersamia , who helps manage more than $2
billion of at Threadneedle Asset Management in London.  -- With assistance from  Jason Webb  in London. Editors:  Alex Nicholson ,  Gavin Serkin   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  