-- BRIC-Beating Growth Sends GDP Warrants to Two-Year High: Argentina Credit
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-19T02:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/bric-beating-growth-sends-gdp-warrants-to-two-year-high-argentina-credit.html
Speculation that Argentina is
inflating  economic growth  above the rate of the biggest
emerging-market countries is driving the value of securities
linked to the nation’s expansion to the highest in 2 1/2 years.  The warrants, which pay debt holders when growth exceeds
government projections, more than doubled since May to 12.73
U.S. cents, the highest since March 2008. The securities offer
an implied yield of about 35 percent through the end of 2011,
according to Bulltick Capital Markets, a Miami-based brokerage
specializing in Latin America. By comparison, Argentina’s
benchmark bonds due in 2015 yield 8.93 percent.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is projecting
South America’s second-largest economy will grow 9.5 percent
this year, more than the  average  of 7.9 percent for Brazil,
Russia, China and India, the so-called BRIC nations. Former
economy minister  Roberto Lavagna , previous vice minister Orlando
Ferreres and Vice President  Julio Cobos  say official estimates
are overstated to bolster political support for the government.  “There’s a perception in the market that the government is
overstating growth and for that reason it’s positive for the
warrants,”  Carola Sandy , an economist with Credit Suisse Group
AG in New York, said in a telephone interview.  This year’s growth in Argentina is being driven by a record
55-million metric ton soybean harvest and wheat prices that
surged 40 percent in the third quarter after Russia suffered
through its worst drought in at least 50 years. From 2003 to
2008, Argentina’s economy  grew  an average 8.5 percent per year.  Creditors Incentive  Argentina first created GDP warrants as an incentive to win
over creditors in the 2005 restructuring of $95 billion in
defaulted debt. In June, Fernandez issued more of the securities
when she renegotiated $12.2 billion in defaulted notes held out
of the 2005 offer.  The warrants, which mature in 2035, pay investors when
growth is higher than 3 percent and the inflation-adjusted value
of the country’s gross domestic product surpasses a base-case
scenario in the contracts.  Argentina reported GDP increased 0.9 percent in 2009 and
inflation of 6.3 percent, according to the statistics agency.  “There’s an underestimation of inflation and an
overestimation of growth,”  Siobhan Morden , an analyst at Royal
Bank of Scotland in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a telephone
interview. “I would say the underestimation of inflation is
much worse.”  Economy Minister  Amado Boudou ’s press office didn’t return
a call for comment.  Growth Estimates  Warrant holders received a payment of 3.11 cents on Dec. 15
after the economy grew 6.8 percent in 2008 and inflation was at
4.4 percent. Argentina will make no payment this year after
2009’s slowdown in growth, according to a government prospectus.  Fernandez’s  estimate  for 2009 was inaccurate since the
economy likely contracted 4.5 percent, said Ferreres, who was
economy vice minister in 1989 and now runs an economic research
agency.  “In 2009, when we started to see a recession, the
government didn’t publish it because they didn’t want to be
unpopular,” Ferreres said in a phone interview from Buenos
Aires. “If the economy shrank, they say the economy grew.”  Doubt about the accuracy of Argentina’s economic statistics
may inhibit the country from having its debt rating raised in
the “short term,”  Gabriel Torres , an analyst with Moody’s
Investors Service said Oct. 7 at an event in Buenos Aires.
Moody’s rates the country B3, six levels below investment grade.  ‘No Confidence’  “If there’s something that would sum up the problem we
have in raising the rating for Argentina, it’s the fact that
there’s no confidence in the official numbers,” Torres said.
“That’s something that doesn’t happen in other countries.”  While Fernandez’s administration reported that  consumer
prices  rose 11.1 percent in September from a year earlier,
Buenos Aires-based research firm Ecolatina estimates inflation
was 25 percent. The company tracks the prices for about 5,000
goods and services.  Even if the government is overpaying warrant investors by
exaggerating growth figures, that’s being offset by the
inflation data, according to  Leonardo Chialva , an economist at
Delphos Investment in Buenos Aires.  “The main difference is in inflation and that is causing
the government to save more than what it’s overpaying for
exaggerating the GDP numbers,” he said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 584 yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  Credit Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose 11 basis points to
732, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to debt agreements.  The peso was little changed yesterday at 3.9537 per dollar.  Argentina may restructure defaulted debt with the Paris
Club group of creditor nations, Fernandez said in a speech in
Berlin on Oct. 6, and may return to the debt markets.  “Growth has been kind of surprising on the upside with the
debt reoffering, the Paris club repayment and the fact that
they’re talking about returning to the debt market,” said
 Morden  of RBS. “All of these support the GDP warrants.”  Outperformance  Argentina may expand by 8.5 percent this year and 5.5
percent next year, enough to trigger warrant payments in
December 2011 and 2012, according to New York-based JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  “Argentina’s growth is on track to outperform regionals
and potentially outperform previous years,” said  David Spegel ,
head of emerging-market debt strategy at ING Groep NV in New
York. “That would make the GDP warrants attractive,”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  