-- Brokers Should Audit Algorithms Used by Customers, Finra's Ketchum Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-10-19T22:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/brokers-should-audit-algorithms-used-by-customers-finra-s-ketchum-says.html
Broker-dealers should increase
oversight of customers who trade over their systems, with
special focus on strategies known as algorithms, said  Richard Ketchum  of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The firms should consider conducting scenario analyses to
gauge how algorithms will function under different conditions,
said Ketchum, the chief executive officer of Washington-based
Finra. Brokers should also engage in an auditing of algorithms
to ensure they operate the way they’re supposed to work, he
said. He spoke at a conference at Baruch College in New York.  “Broker-dealers have a responsibility to supervise
activity that goes through them,” whether orders come over the
phone or via algorithms, Ketchum told reporters at the
conference.  Finra  oversees almost 4,700 U.S. brokers. “If
they’re not asking questions regarding how the algos work in
exceptional conditions, we’d have questions about how they’re
doing their supervision.”  Regulators are looking for ways to protect investors in the
wake of the  May 6 plunge  that temporarily erased $862 billion in
equity value in about 20 minutes. A mutual fund company’s
automated sale of futures contracts without regard to price and
“hot potato” trading by computer-driven firms set off the rout,
according to the Securities and Exchange Commission and
Commodity Future Trading Commission report.  Sponsored Access  Broker-dealers  are responsible for all trading that goes
through their systems, whether flowing through their data pipes
or through access to an exchange using their identification
codes. Arrangements such as these are known as sponsored access.
While brokers decide what type of oversight is necessary for
their clients’ activities, they’re responsible for ensuring that
rules aren’t breached. Exchanges and the SEC are in the process
of imposing additional requirements.  A lesson of May 6 is that brokers and securities industry
professionals could see how “volume operated under pressure,”
Ketchum said. Trading in volatile markets also affects brokers’
so-called best execution obligation to provide customers with
the most advantageous overall transaction at the time the order
is received, given the existing market conditions, he said.  Brokers should study their trading and order-routing
decisions in times of  stress , Ketchum said. Discount brokers
with retail investors, mutual funds and others that trade away
from exchanges must weigh decisions they make at times when a
third of equities volume is “likely to be redirected” from
their usual execution venues to exchanges, he said.  Off-Exchange Trades  About a third of the industry’s volume trades off-exchange.
Orders from retail investors that can be executed immediately
are usually sent to so-called internalizing brokers such as
Citadel LLC and Knight Capital Group Inc., which transact buy
and sell requests within their own walls at prices that are at
least as good as those available publicly. Larger orders from
institutions are often sent to dark pools, or private venues
that don’t display quotes, to avoid moving prices.  “People have different views” about the supervision
they’re required to do, Ketchum said. “That’s what makes a
regulated environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 