-- Builders Probably Began Work on Fewer U.S. Houses in September
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-19T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/builders-probably-began-work-on-fewer-u-s-houses-in-sign-recovery-delayed.html
Builders  in the U.S. probably began
work on fewer homes in September, a sign the residential real
estate market will be slow to recover from the worst recession
since the 1930s, economists said before a report today.  Housing starts fell 3 percent to a 580,000 annual rate,
according to the  median estimate  of 71 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Building permits, a proxy of future production,
were little changed, the survey showed.  Mounting foreclosures, near record-low home sales and a
lack of jobs will make it difficult for housing, the industry
that precipitated the economic slump, to rebound. Broadening
foreclosure moratoria caused by faulty documentation at some of
the nation’s biggest banks also raises the risk the mending
process will be delayed even more.  “Builders are faced with weak new-home sales, competition
from foreclosures and, if anything, uncertainty around the
foreclosure environment has increased,” said  Michelle Meyer , a
senior U.S. economist at BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research in
New York. The housing outlook is “deteriorating,” she said.  The Commerce Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Survey estimates ranged from 550,000 to 624,000.
Starts plunged to a record-low 477,000 pace in April 2009 after
reaching a three-decade high of 2.27 million in January 2006.  Housing permits  rose to a 575,000 annual pace from 571,000
in August, according to the survey median. Permits fell to a
record low of 522,000 in March 2009, rising to a 685,000 pace a
year later, one month before the April expiration of a homebuyer
tax credit worth as much as $8,000. The incentive pulled sales
into late 2009 and early 2010.  Credit’s Effect  Purchases have also see-sawed following the credit. After
reaching a 19-month high 414,000 annual rate in April,  sales  of
new houses plunged to a record low 282,000 pace in May.  With foreclosures reaching a record in September, U.S.
regulators last week said they were investigating whether
employees of lenders including Ally Financial Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and  Bank of America Corp.  had falsified documents
used in the proceedings. Ally Financial and JPMorgan are among
banks that have suspended some foreclosures or evictions to
review paperwork, which may further delay a recovery in housing.  The Obama administration is concerned that halting
foreclosures would hold up home sales, threatening the recovery
in the housing market, White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs
said last week.  Obama Approval  With the approaching Nov. 2 congressional elections,
Americans continue to have a dimmer view of Congress and
President  Barack Obama ’s handling of the economy. Obama’s job
approval in the week ended Oct. 17 was 45 percent, compared with
an average 57 percent last year, according to a poll from
Princeton, New Jersey-based Gallup.  Housing’s inability to rebound is one reason the economic
recovery hasn’t strengthened.  Ben S. Bernanke  is among policy
makers that have said the too-slow recovery has kept the jobless
rate too high and inflation too low. The chairman of the Federal
Reserve last week said additional monetary stimulus may be
needed to spur growth.  Speculation that the central bank may pursue large-scale
asset purchases has pushed down yields on U.S. Treasury
securities, driving mortgage rates to record lows.  Concern over the outlook for housing, even as borrowing
costs plunge, has caused builder shares to underperform the
broader market. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index has gained 13
percent since the end of August, outpacing a 5.4 percent gain in
the S&P  Supercomposite Homebuilding index .  Less Pessimistic  Builders this month were less pessimistic. The National
 Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo’s confidence index
released yesterday rose in October to the highest level in four
months. Nonetheless, the reading of 16 was well short of the 50
level that signals the outlook is equally balanced between
optimists and pessimists.  KB Home , the Los Angeles-based homebuilder that focuses on
first-time buyers, last month reported a smaller third-quarter
loss as revenue increased for the first time in almost four
years. KB has been cutting costs amid the slump in sales and is
seeking to lure buyers with houses that are smaller and less
expensive than older designs.  Lennar Corp . is among homebuilders finding other ways to
boost earnings as sales languish. The Miami-based company, the
third-biggest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, reported better-than-
estimated earnings on Sept. 20, boosted by improved margins and
revenue from its distressed-investing unit.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 Bobwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  