-- Buy Crown Bond Protection on Risk of Tabcorp Casino Purchase, Nomura Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   L i s a   P h a m
-- 2010-10-19T04:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/buy-crown-bond-protection-on-risk-of-tabcorp-casino-purchase-nomura-says.html
Investors should buy protection on
 Crown Ltd.  bonds as the cost of the contracts would surge if
Australia’s largest casino operator bought assets from  Tabcorp
Holdings Ltd. , according to Nomura Holdings Inc.  Credit-default swaps insuring Crown debt against default
cost 77.9 basis points as of yesterday, 31.8 basis points
cheaper than the benchmark Markit iTraxx Australia index,
according to CMA prices. The gap may narrow after Tabcorp
announced plans yesterday to spin off its casino business,
making it easier for Crown to buy the unit, Nomura analyst Ben
Byrne wrote in a note to clients today.  “The prospects of an event involving increased leverage at
Crown have increased,” the analyst wrote. Tabcorp’s separation
plan “would make an acquisition much cleaner and easier to
execute from Crown’s perspective.”  Tabcorp owns the only  casino  in Sydney, Australia’s most
populous city, while Crown owns the only property in Melbourne,
the second biggest. Australians gamble more than A$17 billion
($16.8 billion) a year, or about A$1,123 per person, according
to the Queensland state government’s Office of Economic and
Statistical Research.  Tabcorp’s casinos are “key strategic assets with
significant upside potential,” Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
analysts including Harry Theodore and Alexander Beer wrote in a
research note dated yesterday. “Crown is a potential acquirer
of those assets, with private equity also potentially
interested.”  Crown may raise about A$2 billion of debt to help buy
Tabcorp’s casinos, which are worth about A$4 billion, Nomura’s
Byrne said.  “Under this scenario, we expect Crown credit-default swaps
would widen markedly” due to higher levels of debt and a lower
credit rating, he wrote.  Packer Stake  Crown chairman James Packer’s move to increase his stake in
the company last week may also suggest he is planning to
privatize the company, an additional reason to buy bond
protection, Byrne said.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net . 