-- Cablevision Blackout Shows News Corp., Broadcasters Gain Edge in Fee Spats
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-10-19T19:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/cablevision-blackout-shows-news-corp-broadcasters-gain-edge-in-fee-spats.html
News Corp. ’s decision to keep Fox
programs off  Cablevision System Corp.  shows media companies may
be gaining the upper hand in extracting fees from cable and
satellite companies for content that used to be free.  News Corp.’s Fox,  Walt Disney Co. ’s ABC and  CBS Corp.  are
all seeking payment for their over-the-air broadcast signals as
existing contracts with pay-TV providers expire. News Corp. has
said it considers the Fox broadcast network just as valuable as
the most expensive cable programming because of its sports shows
and prime-time hits like “American Idol.”  Fox’s departure from Cablevision has caused the longest-
lasting blackout of a major broadcast network for a million or
more people in at least a decade, affecting 3 million customers
in New York and Philadelphia. In March, ABC went dark on
Cablevision for almost a day in a similar negotiation.  “By acting as an industry, the broadcasters are not only
more able to get the fees they want, but after getting through
one of the worst ad recessions of the decade, realized that they
need those fees,” said  Tom Eagan , an analyst at Collins Stewart
LLC in New York.  Cablevision and News Corp. ended talks today without an
agreement and plan to resume negotiations again tomorrow,
according to an e-mail from Fox spokesman Brian Peterson.  Broadcasters have said they deserve to be compensated for
supplying TV’s most-watched shows, including “NCIS,” “Sunday
Night Football” and “Desperate Housewives.” In the past, the
networks traded those rights to gain distribution for new cable
channels like News Corp.’s FX or higher fees for existing cable
networks.  Cablevision Alternatives  Media companies have leverage in the negotiations because
there are more pay-TV alternatives, said Eagan. For example, if
Fox programming goes dark on Cablevision, customers can switch
to competitors like  Verizon Communications Inc. ’s FiOS-TV
service.  News Corp. has set up a website to help Cablevision
subscribers find alternative ways to get Fox programming. The
site,  keepfoxon.com , allows people to search for providers by
Zip code.  Pay-TV providers often bear the brunt of criticism for an
outage, said  David Joyce , an analyst at Miller, Tabak & Co. in
New York.  “They’re the ones that the customers have the phone
numbers to, they’re the ones the consumers get the bills from,”
said Joyce.  Cablevision customer Brian Kelly said he has little
sympathy for the company and plans to install DirecTV this week
to avoid missing Fox shows.  “Cablevision turns into a bunch of whining crybabies when
they don’t get what they want,” said Kelly of Warwick, New
York. “Content providers have no obligation to help
Cablevision.”  Cablevision’s Offensive  The cable company is making its own effort to sway public
opinion. Subscribers who tune in to Fox broadcast stations see a
three-minute video from Cablevision that explains the company’s
stance. Cablevision, for instance, says Fox is asking for $150
million a year in fees, more than it pays for ABC, CBS, NBC and
the Spanish-language Univision combined.  “We believe News Corp. has acted in bad faith claiming in
public to be willing to compromise, while privately continuing
to make the same take-it-or-leave-it demands,” the announcement
said. News Corp. said the $150 million figure isn’t accurate and
that it’s seeking “fair compensation.”  Posturing for Dish  Programmers do have money at stake if their channels go
dark. Networks are typically responsible for giving advertisers
“make good” commercial time when they don’t deliver on
audience guarantees because of a blackout. They also lose out on
events-based advertising that sells at much higher rates. For
example, if programming isn’t restored to Cablevision before the
World Series, News Corp. risks losing considerable local ad
sales, Joyce said.  News Corp.  may be using its current battle with Cablevision
to set an example for  Dish Network Corp. , whose contract for Fox
expires on Nov. 1, said  Matthew Harrigan , an analyst at
Wunderlich Securities LLC.  “News Corp. is adamant about getting paid for its
intellectual content,” said Harrigan. “From their vantage
point there can’t be any more free lunch, the business model
just doesn’t support that.”  Chase Carey , the president and chief operating officer at
New York-based News Corp., has set obtaining fees from pay-TV
providers for Fox broadcast as one of his top priorities,
regardless of how contentious the negotiations may get.  ‘Never a Fair Fight’  “Your costs are your problem, not mine,” said Carey at an
investor conference on Sept. 22. “You can make the decision
it’s not worth that and you’re better off not having it. I don’t
think it’s any more complicated than that.”  News Corp.  is said to be trying to seek $1 a subscriber per
month from Cablevision and Dish, the same fee it was looking to
extract from Time Warner Cable Inc. late last year, said analyst
Harrigan.  On average, in the next three to five years, Fox may get 70
cents per subscriber per month from pay-TV providers, which
would generate about $390 million in annual sales, estimates
 Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.  CBS, owner of the most-watched TV network, is aiming for
$250 million a year in so-called retransmission fees, Chief
Executive Officer  Leslie Moonves  has said. This year it has
inked a deal with  Comcast Corp. , the largest pay-TV provider,
for an undisclosed sum.  Charging for over-the-air content “pits a government-
mandated monopoly broadcaster against a distributor for whom
there is readily available substitutes,” wrote Moffett in an e-
mail. “It was never a fair fight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 