-- California Pension Promises May Top Taxes by Fivefold, Milken Study Finds
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-10-19T17:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/california-pension-promises-may-top-taxes-by-fivefold-milken-study-finds.html
California , which has the largest
U.S. public-pension fund, faces liabilities that may exceed its
annual state-tax revenue fivefold within two years unless
lawmakers rein in benefits, according to a study.  To keep their promises to retirees, the California Public
Employees Retirement System, the biggest plan, the California
State Teachers Retirement System, the second-largest, and the
University of California Retirement System may have combined
liabilities of more than 5.5 times the state’s annual tax
revenue by fiscal 2012, according to the study released today by
the  Milken Institute . Levies are forecast to reach about  $89
billion  in the year that began July 1.  Debts to government retirees including those in California,
the biggest state by population, have grown into a national
crisis as pension plans strive to meet obligations to more than
 19 million  active and retired firefighters, police officers,
teachers and other state workers. Fewer than half the plans had
assets to cover 80 percent of promised benefits in fiscal 2009,
according to data compiled for last month’s  Cities and Debt
Briefing  hosted by Bloomberg Link.  “California simply lacks the fiscal capacity to guarantee
public-pension payments, particularly given the wave of state
employees set to retire” in future years, said researchers
 Perry Wong  and I-Ling Shen in the Milken report. “Structural
shifts, coupled with the financial design and the accounting
practices of state pension funds, all point to the fact that
reform is imperative.”  Driven by Demographics  The state’s pension costs are being driven in part by
demographics such as an aging workforce and longevity gains
among retirees, as well as an increasing demand for government
public services, the researchers said.  The study, ‘Addressing California’s Pension Shortfalls,’
based its conclusions on data from the UCRS, California
Legislative Analyst’s Office and California’s Finance
Department. It examined the ratio of the three pensions’
forecast unfunded liabilities to current assets, after
accounting for state contributions.  To reduce costs, the Milken report recommends that
California require public workers to contribute more to their
pension funds and to retire later. Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and lawmakers this month agreed to similar
changes in a contract with the state’s largest union.  End Defined-Benefits  The study also suggests California should move to a so-
called risk-sharing retirement plan. It would guarantee a basic
pension while asking employees to bear the investment risks for
part of their future benefits, similar to a 401(K) plan.  Such a change would reduce taxpayer liability when public
funds lose money on their investments. Calpers lost more than
$60 billion during the credit crisis of 2008 and 2009. The
average five-year return on pension assets was about 3 percent
for the most recently completed fiscal year, below the 7 percent
or 8 percent benchmarks many states use, according to consulting
firm Wilshire Associates.  “It’s no secret that the state of California lacks the
resources to make huge infusions into state pension funds,”
Wong and Shen said in the report. “The state government is
trapped in its own budget crisis, at least in the short run, and
future expenditures for public services and programs are
expected to rise simply to keep up with demographic trends in
the short- to medium-term.”  Schwarzenegger and California lawmakers agreed to cut state
spending by $7.5 billion in a budget accord signed into law on
Oct. 8, ending a 100-day impasse on how to close a $19.1 billion
deficit. The Republican governor’s pension changes were part of
his plan to cover the gap.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 