-- California Seeking About $6 Billion Bridge Loan This Month, Lockyer Says
-- B y   E m i l y   C h a n g   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-10-19T20:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/california-seeking-about-6-billion-bridge-loan-this-month-lockyer-says.html
California is arranging to borrow
about $6 billion in a bridge loan from one or more Wall Street
banks this month, said state Treasurer  Bill Lockyer .  “We hope to get it done by the end of this month,”
Lockyer said today in a Bloomberg Television interview while
attending a  Milken Institute  conference in Los Angeles. Last
month, the treasurer said the state was lining up a loan of more
than $5 billion amid a record-long budget impasse.  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  signed the $87 billion
budget into law on Oct. 8, closing a gap of about $19 billion.
The agreement came 100 days after the July 1 start of the fiscal
year, the longest period ever in which the state operated
without a budget. Lockyer said today that he anticipates that
next year the state will face a deficit at least as large.  Lockyer previously said he was lining up the loan from  Bank
of America  Merrill Lynch,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  and RBC Capital Markets. He also said earlier that
JPMorgan had committed to the largest portion of this year’s
loan, without specifying how much.  The bridge loan will be repaid with the proceeds from the
sale next month of an estimated $10 billion or more of short-
term revenue anticipation notes.  California last year borrowed $1.5 billion in August from
JPMorgan at an annual interest rate of 3 percent after a similar
budget impasse forced the state to issue IOUs to pay some bills.
The loan was repaid when Lockyer sold $8.8 billion of short-term
notes a month later. The state typically issues such notes in
the second or third quarter each year, when cash-on-hand is low,
and repays it from later tax collections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Chang in San Franciscot .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  