-- Cameron Reaches ‘Crunch Time’ as Investors Warn Against Retreat
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-10-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/cameron-reaches-crunch-time-on-cuts-as-investors-warn-against-retreat.html
British Prime Minister  David Cameron 
hosted his top aides for a Sunday lunch at his country retreat
as they ended 23 weeks of infighting that resulted in the
deepest budget reductions the U.K. has ever seen.  Now comes the hard part: convincing everyone else to go
along.  Cameron’s Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who
was at the Oct. 17 lunch with Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg 
and Treasury Chief Secretary  Danny Alexander , will detail his
plan in Parliament today to virtually eliminate the 156 billion-
pound ($245 billion)  deficit  by 2015.  At stake for the five-month-old coalition government is
Britain’s top credit rating, a fragile recovery from its longest
recession on record and the future shape of the post-war welfare
state. The cuts “will affect every single person in our
country,” Cameron has said and investors say they’re concerned
he won’t be able to hold the line as ministers plead for extra
money to fund child-welfare programs or avoid police layoffs.  “The markets will be very disappointed if he goes back on
this,” said  Stephen Lewis , a senior economist at London-based
Monument Securities. “It will be as hard if not harder to
implement. There will be a lot of spending at the local level
where we don’t know what sort of issues will arise.”  A June 22 blueprint foresees average cuts in ministries of
25 percent, with the National Health Service protected. As many
as 500,000 government jobs may be lost by 2015, says the Office
for Budget Responsibility, the watchdog set up by Osborne to
oversee Treasury forecasts.  Spending Cuts  Total spending in Cameron’s plan would fall by 0.7 percent
a year after inflation. Under  Margaret Thatcher , 85, who was
known as the Iron Lady during her 11 years as premier that ended
in 1990, spending rose by an annual 1.2 percent.  “This looks like it’s going to turn the economy right down
and I think it’s going to be a terrible, terrible mistake,”
former Bank of England policy maker  David Blanchflower  said in
an Oct. 18 Bloomberg Television interview.  Andrew Russell , professor of politics at the University of
Manchester, said Liberal Democrats, the junior partners in the
coalition, will push to limit cuts for the poor, particularly in
areas such as social housing.  “Cuts mean jobs losses, and when you have two parties, you
double the potential for rebellions,” said Russell. “This is
crunch time and, while the coalition won’t break, you’d expect
fissures to emerge and the Liberal Democrats to look for
concessions every time a cut is announced.”  Gilts Gain  So far the budget plan has won over investors. Gilts have
returned 7 percent since Cameron replaced Labour Prime Minister
 Gordon Brown  in May, more than the 4 percent gain by German
bunds and the 5.8 percent increase in U.S. Treasuries, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. The pound has gained more than 5
percent against the dollar.  Ratings agencies have warned against any slippage. Fitch
Ratings in June said it saw “significant fiscal risks” and
questioned whether spending restraint and welfare reductions can
be achieved. Moody’s Investors Service said “reduced political
commitment to fiscal consolidation” would be a reason for it to
reassess its U.K. Aaa debt rating.  “Markets have been remarkably patient,” said  Danny Gabay ,
director of London-based Fathom Financial Consulting and a
former Bank of England and government economist. “It’s because
the U.K. has chosen to take these steps voluntarily that the
markets have cut them some slack.”  Osborne’s Spats  The task of negotiating the plan fell to Osborne, with
Cameron forced to intervene as disagreements became public.  The most visible struggle was over the military budget.
Service chiefs and Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  pushed to water
down Osborne’s bid to slice 20 percent. They finally agreed to
an 8 percent cut.  Cameron and officials at Downing Street grew increasingly
exasperated as defense staff leaked details of negotiations to
reporters, said people familiar with the talks. In the final two
weeks, Cameron ordered Cabinet Office secretary  Oliver Letwin 
and  Jeremy Heywood , Downing Street’s top civil servant, to
broker meetings between the Treasury and the Ministry of
Defense.  Cameron named Colonel Jim Morris of the Royal Marines as
military assistant last week to strengthen his hand after
clashing with Fox over the cuts.  Leakers Warned  As leaks increased, Osborne told political advisers from
other ministries that he would personally end their careers if
he found out they had been briefing the media before the
spending review, said a person familiar with the meeting.  The wrangling with Work and Pensions Secretary  Iain Duncan Smith  over the welfare budget was also acrimonious. Private
sniping became public when Osborne this month announced he would
scrap child-benefits payments for 1 million middle-class
families to save 1 billion pounds a year without notifying
senior members of the Cabinet, the Daily Telegraph reported on
Oct. 6.  The popular backlash prompted Children’s Minister  Tim Loughton  to say the government may look at “compensating
measures for those genuinely in need.” Conservative lawmaker  Jo Johnson  said the policy change “needs to be tweaked.”  While the biggest fights have been among Conservatives,
junior members of the coalition also have expressed dissent.  Liberal Democrat Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  said Oct. 8
that proposed spending cuts aren’t “lashed to the mast” and
that it “may be appropriate” to change plans unless the
economy strengthens.  “It would be very damaging if Osborne had to backtrack,”
said  Stewart Robertson , chief European economist at Aviva Plc,
which has 250 billion pounds under management.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London on 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  