-- Loonie Falls as Central Bank Trims Growth Forecast, Holds Rate Unchanged
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-19T20:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/canadian-dollar-declines-for-fourth-day-as-china-increases-interest-rates.html
Canada’s dollar weakened for a
fourth straight day versus its U.S. counterpart after the Bank
of Canada reduced its economic growth forecast and kept its
benchmark overnight lending rate unchanged at 1 percent.  The loonie, as the currency is known, recorded its largest
decline in more than four months as the nation’s central bank
said any further tightening would be “carefully considered” as
the economy will take an extra year to reach its full potential.
All 18 economists in a Bloomberg survey predicted the central
bank would leave its benchmark rate unchanged. China’s central
bank unexpectedly raised interest rates, damping demand for
assets related to economic growth.  “The market is sensitive to any changes in growth and
inflation forecasts, and the bank has reduced both,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at National Bank of
Canada, said by phone from Toronto.  The Canadian dollar, nicknamed the loonie, dropped 1.4
percent C$1.0315 per U.S. dollar at 4:09 p.m. in Toronto, after
reaching C$1.0374, the lowest level Sept. 23. One Canadian
dollar buys 96.95 U.S. cents.  The currency pared declines after investors bought the
Canadian dollar and sold currencies other than the U.S. dollar,
such as the yen, euro, British pound and Mexican peso, according
to  Firas Askari , head currency trader in Toronto at Bank of
Montreal, Canada’s fourth-largest lender.  Trailing Peers  “There has been lots of corporate interest in non-U.S.
dollar currencies against the Canadian dollar,” Askari said via
e-mail. “The Canadian dollar has performed horribly against the
euro in particular, but it feels like it’s getting close to a
top in that pair.”  Canada’s dollar traded at C$1.4161 versus the euro, after
depreciating to C$1.4312, the lowest level since March 1.  Governor  Mark Carney  kept the target rate for overnight
loans between commercial banks at 1 percent, and cut his
forecast for growth next year to 2.3 percent from a prior
estimate of 2.9 percent, in announcing its decision in Ottawa
today.  “At this time of transition in the global recovery, with a
weaker U.S. outlook, constraints beginning to moderate growth in
emerging-market economies, and domestic considerations that are
expected to slow consumption and housing activity in Canada, any
further reduction in monetary policy stimulus would need to be
carefully considered,” the bank said in a statement.  BOC Stance  “The Bank of Canada certainly looks dovish,”  Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at Bank
of Nova Scotia’s Scotia Capital unit, said via e-mail. “It
looks like an ugly day all around.”  The Bank of Canada may not raise rates again for six
months, overnight index swaps indicate. The rate on the six-
month security, a gauge of what investors think the policy rate
will average during that time, slumped to 1.05 percent today,
down from 1.17 percent Sept. 16.  Policy makers “are worried by what’s going on in the
U.S.,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at Schneider
Foreign Exchange in London. “The slowdown there has policy
makers concerned. They also have a very strong currency and they
are negatively affected by any slowdown in Asia which would be
affected by any Chinese tightening.”  China Acts  China increased its benchmark lending and deposit rates for
the first time since 2007 after inflation accelerated to the
fastest pace in 22 months.  China’s move will have “a negative effect” on Canada’s
dollar,  Michael Leavitt , Montreal-based institutional-
derivatives broker at MF Global Canada Co., wrote via e-mail,
“as China puts the brakes on, slowing growth.”  The one-year deposit rate will increase to 2.5 percent from
2.25 percent, effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank of China
said on its website today. The lending rate will increase to
5.56 percent from 5.31 percent, it said.  “The Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar instantly
took it on the chin,”  Blake Jespersen , director of foreign
exchange at Bank of Montreal in Toronto, said via e-mail,
referring to China’s increase in interest rates.  Shorter-term Canadian government bonds rose, pushing the
benchmark two-year yield down 8 basis points to 1.33 percent, as
the price of the 1.5 percent security due December 2012 climbed
16 cents to C$100.35.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  