-- Capital Controls To Curb Colombian Peso Rally Not Justified, Uribe Says
-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 2010-10-19T19:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/capital-controls-to-curb-colombian-peso-rally-not-justified-uribe-says.html
Colombia central bank chief  Jose Dario Uribe  said he sees no need to implement capital controls
to stem gains by the peso, Latin America’s best-performing
currency this year.  Uribe, speaking to reporters after a presentation today in
Bogota, said the costs of capital controls currently outweigh
the benefits. If that scenario changes, and the benefits exceed
the costs, the government might reconsider controls, he said.  The peso’s 12.6 percent gains against the U.S. dollar this
year have boosted speculation that Colombia may follow in the
steps of Brazil, whose real has risen 3.2 percent in the same
period, and impose restrictions on capital inflows to ease
pressure on the currency.  Since strengthening to a two-year high of 1783.40 per
dollar on Oct. 7, the currency has weakened 1.5 percent to
1815.85 at 3:37 p.m. New York time.  Nicolas Eyzaguirre , the International Monetary Fund’s
Western Hemisphere director, said at an event alongside Uribe in
Bogota that countries may adopt measures to prevent excessive
capital from entering the country under certain conditions.
Still, tempering gains may prove difficult as the country’s
mining sector attracts investment, he said.  “We have to face a situation in which the appetite to
invest in our countries will be excessive,” said Eyzaguirre.
“Capital flows are going to continue for a long time.”  The government has sought to damp the peso’s appreciation
against the dollar that has hurt the competitiveness of exports.  The government on Oct. 15 said it would keep two dividend
payments from state oil company Ecopetrol SA abroad instead of
converting the dollars into local currency. The central bank is
purchasing at least $20 million daily in the spot market to ease
peso gains.  Brazil yesterday raised to 6 percent, from 4 percent, the
so-called IOF tax on foreigners’ fixed-income investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  