-- Carney May Suspend Canada Interest Rate Increases on U.S. Recovery Concern
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2010-10-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/carney-may-suspend-canada-interest-rate-increases-on-u-s-recovery-concern.html
The Bank of Canada may keep its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged after three previous increases
because of slowing domestic growth and as other central banks,
including the U.S. Federal Reserve, consider action to further
stimulate their economies.  Governor  Mark Carney  will keep the target rate for
overnight loans between commercial banks at 1 percent in a
decision due at 9 a.m. New York time today, according to all 18
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. The Ottawa-based bank may
also cut its growth and  inflation  forecasts before presenting a
detailed outlook tomorrow, economists said.  Carney said last month he should be “cautious” about
further rate increases and there were “limits” to how far he
could diverge from the Fed, where Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
Oct. 15 that he may offer new stimulus measures. If Carney
raised interest rates while other central banks are on hold it
could boost the currency, hurting exporters at a time when
domestic demand is weakening.  “They are going to go with the flow” of other central
banks that are avoiding tighter policies, said  Robert Kavcic , a
Bank of Montreal economist in Toronto.  By pausing, Carney would join central bankers in Brazil,
Malaysia and Australia in keeping borrowing costs unchanged in
part to gauge the strength of the recovery, even though Canada
is benefiting from rising global demand for commodities. Policy
makers at the European Central Bank and the Bank of England have
also signaled they may introduce new stimulus.  Hands Tied  “The hands of central banks around the world are being
tied by the actions of the Fed” and other major central banks
contemplating new easing, said  Derek Holt , economist at Bank of
Nova Scotia in Toronto.  Canada relies on the U.S. for 63 percent of its trade, and
the country’s dollar reached parity with its U.S. counterpart
last week for the first time since April. That puts fresh
pressure on  exporters  hurt in the global recession by lost U.S.
orders of manufactured goods such as autos and paper.  “I would look for more neutral language than anything
leaning towards a rate hike,” in today’s statement, said
 Jonathan Basile , a Credit Suisse economist in New York. “If you
hinted you are still thinking of raising rates the currency is
going to keep appreciating.”  Forest-product maker Canfor Corp. and U.S. Steel Corp., the
second-largest U.S. maker of the metal, have said they are
shutting plants because of reduced demand. Canfor said Sept. 22
it will close a mill near Prince George, British Columbia in
part because of “the protracted downturn in new home
construction in the U.S.” The mill employed about 185 people.  Extended Pause  The Canadian dollar traded for C$1.0144 per U.S. dollar
yesterday, bringing its gain for the year to 3.8 percent.  The bank may not raise rates again for six months,
overnight index swaps indicate. The rate on the  six-month 
security, a gauge of what investors think the policy rate will
average over that time, was 1.095 percent yesterday, down from
1.175 percent Sept. 16.  Carney said in a Sept. 30 speech he would cut his growth
forecast for the second half of the year this week. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predict the economy grew at a 2.2 percent
annualized pace in the third quarter, less than the central
bank’s July prediction of 2.8 percent.  Canada’s  gross domestic product  shrank 0.1 percent in July,
the first decline in 11 months, as retailers, manufacturers and
builders posted declines, according to Statistics Canada.  ‘Looking Weaker’  “Everything has come in weaker than we thought,”  Nicholas Rowe , an economics professor at Carleton University in Ottawa,
said in an interview last week. “The Canadian economy is
looking weaker.”  Monetary policy may become the chief tool to boost the
 recovery  with Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  saying his two-year
stimulus spending package will end in March. Opposition leaders
such as  Jack Layton  of the New Democratic Party have said the
government should extend some of the measures.  Keeping interest rates low is probably a better way of
boosting demand than government spending, said  Glen Hodgson ,
chief economist at the Conference Board of Canada in Ottawa.  “It’s a rough road right now,” he said. “The bank
clearly has to be mindful of the external environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 