-- Hogs Rally Most in Week as U.S. Demand for Pork May Increase; Cattle Rise
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-10-19T18:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/cattle-futures-drop-as-dollar-rally-may-curb-u-s-beef-exports-hogs-rise.html
Hog futures rose for the second time
in three sessions on speculation that the lowest U.S. pork
prices in three months will spur buying from retailers. Cattle
also gained.  Wholesale pork  fell to 80.61 cents a pound yesterday, the
lowest level since July 16, government data show. Prices
declined as animal breeding cycles led to a seasonal increase in
hog supplies and cooler weather allowed animals to gain more
 weight . The price drop may have been overdone as demand may rise
before the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays in November and
December, said  Doug Harper  at Brock Associates.  “Over the last four weeks, we’ve seen pork-product prices
slide, but it looks like it’s been factored into the market
pretty well now,” Harper, an agricultural market analyst, said
from Milwaukee.  Hog futures for December settlement climbed 0.175 cent, or
0.3 percent, to settle at 68.2 cents a pound at 1 p.m. on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Earlier, the price dropped to 67.5
cents, the lowest level since Feb. 11.  The most-active contract is up 26 percent in the past year
as losses in 2008 and 2009 spurred farmers to cut herds, and as
pork demand recovered from the recession.  Cattle Market  Cattle futures for December delivery rose 0.225 cent, or
0.2 percent, to $1.0095 a pound on the CME. Prices increased 2.5
percent in the previous two sessions, and earlier today climbed
to a one-month high of $1.014. Feeder-cattle futures for January
settlement advanced 1.3 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $1.1095 a
pound.  Futures were supported by rising prices for wholesale
 choice beef , which climbed to $1.5757 a pound at midday, the
highest level since Sept. 28, U.S. Department of Agriculture
data show.  The  dollar  rose the most in two months against a basket of
six major currencies after China unexpectedly increased interest
rates, discouraging demand for assets related to economic
growth. In the four weeks through Oct. 7, U.S. beef-export sales
gained 22 percent from a year earlier as the dollar headed to a
10-month low, according to the USDA.  “A higher U.S. dollar could inhibit U.S. exports,” said
 Rich Nelson , the director of research at Allendale Inc. in
McHenry, Illinois. “Higher interest rates will slow their
domestic economic growth, and that could theoretically limit
their food demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  