-- Chekhov Without Cherries, Naughty Parisian Lady: Paris Theater
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2010-10-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/chekhov-without-the-cherries-naughty-parisian-lady-has-fun-paris-theater.html
The autumn theater season offers
Parisians a visually striking, emotionally empty “Cherry
Orchard” and the rediscovery of a half-forgotten gem, Henry
Becque’s delightfully cynical “La Parisienne.”  A glimpse into the program at the  Theatre de l’Odeon  warns
you what to expect: “The Cherry Orchard,” says director Julie
Brochen, “is not a play that should be pinned to a historical
context. Neither the sets nor the costumes should suggest a
particular period.”  So, instead of  Chekhov’s  Russian estate, set designer Julie
Terrazzoni comes up with a huge metal cage, a few pieces of
furniture and a concert grand. The costumes (Manon Gignoux) seem
to come from a vintage store specializing in the 1920s.  The cherry orchard is nowhere to be seen.  The only Slavic element is Russian choruses. There’s a lot
of music in this production. Four musicians roam the stage,
adding an interlude here and there, sometimes accompanying the
spoken text, as in a melodrama.  Jeanne Balibar’s Madame Ranevskaya, the spendthrift lady
who has left her French lover in Act I and is on her way back to
him in Act IV, has an exquisite profile and looks splendid in
elegant evening gowns. She also plays the piano and sings.  At the end, when the cherry orchard has been sold and the
house is being closed up, she has a hysterical fit, yet soon
gets over it.  The thing that’s missing is humanity -- Chekhov’s unique
mix of comedy and melancholy. Brochen treats her actors like
marionettes: They sit in picturesque tableaux vivants, strike
decorative poses on the revolving stage and leave us cold.  Rating: **.  “The Cherry Orchard” is at the Theatre de l’Odeon through
Oct. 24. Information:  http://www.theatre-odeon.eu  or +33-1-4485-
4040.  Clotilde, the heroine of “La Parisienne,” also ditches
her lover only to be reconciled with him at the end.  The amazing thing about this “comedie rosse,” or bitter
comedy, is that it had its premiere in 1885, only six years
after Ibsen’s Nora Helmer shocked the world by leaving her
husband and her “doll’s house.” Clotilde du Mesnil (Barbara
Schulz) is emancipated to a point that, even in our permissive
society, most men would find difficult to accept.  The play starts with a scene of jealousy: A gentleman who
we assume is Monsieur du Mesnil insists on reading a letter
Clotilde has just received. Only at the end of that scene, when
she warns him: “Watch out! My husband!” do we realize that
she’s quarreling with her lover.  Lover of Month  Monsieur Lafont (Jerome Kircher) is Clotilde’s lover-of-the
month. Yet she is tired of his jealousy and on the prowl for a
replacement. She finds it in young Simpson (Alexandre Guanse),
whose influential mother she’s cultivating to promote the career
of her husband (Didier Brice).  After a couple of months, the young man leaves Paris, and
Lafont comes back into favor. To what extent the cuckolded
husband is aware of the menage a trois isn’t clear. Still, he
gets his promotion.  Mercifully, Didier Long, the director, Jean-Michel Adam and
Renato Bianchi, the set and costume designer, have resisted the
temptation to update the play and make it more “relevant” to a
modern audience. They have treated it as what it is -- a period
piece of the Belle Epoque, a naughty comedy of manners as light
as a souffle.  Nor do the actors fall into the trap of hamming it up and
going for easy laughs. They deliver their lines without
affectation, with perfect timing and nimble wit.  Rating: ***.  “La Parisienne” is at the Theatre Montparnasse, 31 Rue de
la Gaite. Information:  http://www.theatremontparnasse.com  or
+33-1-4322-7774.  ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 