-- Chevron, ExxonMobil, Shell May Bid in Iraq's Gas Fields Licensing Round
-- B y   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 2010-10-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/chevron-exxon-shell-may-be-bidding-in-iraqi-gas-field-licensing-round.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. ,  Chevron Corp. ,
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and  OAO Gazprom  are among companies that
may bid in a licensing round today to develop three natural-gas
fields in Iraq.  Among the other companies registered to bid are  Eni Spa ,
 Mitsubishi Corp.  and Japan Petroleum Exploration Co., Abdul Hadi
al-Hassani, vice chairman of the oil and gas committee in Iraq’s
parliament said in an interview on Sept. 28. The bidding
ceremony is scheduled to begin at 10 a.m. in Baghdad.  Iraq, reliant on oil for most of its income, seeks foreign
investors after years of conflict and sanctions. The licensing
round is the  third  since the U.S-led invasion that toppled
President Saddam Hussein in 2003. It focuses specifically on the
Akkas, Mansouriya and Siba gas fields, which Iraq is eager to
develop for domestic power generation as well as export revenue.  The three undeveloped fields hold combined gas reserves of
more than 11 trillion cubic feet, Oil Minister  Hussain al- Shahristani  said in May. Separately, the U.S.  Energy Information
Administration  estimates the reserves at 7.6 trillion cubic
feet.  Akkas, discovered in the western Anbar province in 1998,
holds 5.6 trillion cubic feet of gas and has six wells, al
Shahristani said. Mansouriya, discovered in the eastern Diyala
district in 1979, potentially holds 4.5 trillion cubic feet of
gas and has four wells, while Siba, found in 1968 in Basra, has
1.1 trillion cubic feet of gas and three wells, al-Shahristani
said.  Service Contracts  Iraq has the third-largest oil reserves in the Middle East,
after Saudi Arabia and Iran, and wants to more than double its
current crude output of 2.3 million barrels a day. To raise oil
output, the government awarded a dozen service contracts to
international oil companies including Exxon Mobil Corp. and OAO
Lukoil in two licensing rounds last year.  The 45 companies that bid last year were invited by the oil
ministry to bid for the third round this year for the three
natural gas fields, where Iraq wants to raise production four-
fold.  Iraq intends to export 50 percent of the gas produced in
the three gas fields, the amount in excess of its domestic
needs, Abdul Mahdy al-Ameedi, deputy director general at Iraq’s
Petroleum Contracts and Licensing Directorate, said on Aug. 2.  Companies winning the contracts will be paid on the basis
of barrels of oil equivalent and will not be involved in setting
the price for gas exports, he said at the time.  No Signature Bonus  Among new incentives for investors, Iraq decided to scrap
so-called signature bonuses, which amounted to costs of between
$100 million and $500 million for each of the winning bidders in
the previous two licensing rounds, he said.  Akkas and Mansouriya were among the fields offered in
bidding last year. No investors bid for Mansouriya then, and the
ministry rejected the sole offer for Akkas made by a group of
five companies led by Italy’s Edison SpA. The ministry initially
included Siba in the second round then withdrew it.  Iraq will present a draft agreement to the cabinet for a
gas joint venture with Shell by the end of the year, al-
Shahristani told reporters in Vienna on Oct. 14. Shell is
exploring possibilities for exporting liquefied natural gas from
Iraq in future years.  The country is also a possible source of gas for the planned
Nabucco pipeline project, which aims to reduce Europe’s
dependence on Russian fuel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zahraa Alkhalisi  in Dubai at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  