-- Bank of America, JPMorgan, GMAC Evictions Held Up by Sheriff in Chicago
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-19T19:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/chicago-area-sheriff-to-suspend-foreclosure-evictions-by-three-lenders.html
Foreclosure evictions by  Bank of
America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Ally Financial Inc. ’s
GMAC will be suspended next week in Cook County, Illinois, which
includes Chicago, Sheriff  Tom Dart  said.  Dart said today he is halting evictions until he receives
assurances that they are legal. His decision, effective Oct. 25,
affects about 1,500 pending cases, he said.  “I need them to tell me that everything was done
properly,” Dart said at a press conference, referring to the
lenders. He is demanding affidavits to support the banks’ cases,
he said.  Attorneys general from all 50 U.S. states last week said
they were jointly investigating home foreclosure practices in
light of announcements by Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and
Ally that there may have been paperwork deficiencies in some
cases.  This is the second time since 2008 that Dart has halted
Cook County evictions over concerns about foreclosure practices
and procedures. The sheriff faces re-election for that post and
said he is contemplating a run for mayor of Chicago, the third-
largest U.S. city.  Incumbent Mayor  Richard M. Daley , who has held the job
since 1989, has said he won’t seek a seventh term in office.  17 Complete  Bank of America said Oct. 8 it would stop foreclosure sales
nationally while it reviews paperwork. The company said
yesterday it will start resubmitting foreclosure affidavits next
week in 102,000 cases.  “Bank of America has completed a voluntary review of
foreclosure affidavits submitted in Illinois and 22 other judicial
foreclosure states,”  Rick Simon , a spokesman for
the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender, said today
in an e-mailed statement. “Our assessment shows underlying
information provided as the basis for our past foreclosure
decisions is accurate.”  The average home owner is 18 months behind on payments by
the time Bank of America completes a foreclosure, said Simon.  Dart said his office reviewed 350 foreclosure cases and
only 17 had complete paperwork to justify an eviction. The
approximately 1,500 cases affected by Dart’s halt represent
about a third of the foreclosure evictions his office handles
each year, he said.  “I can’t possibly be expected to evict people from their
homes when the banks themselves can’t say for sure everything
was done properly,” Dart said in a statement today.  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for Ally Financial in Detroit,
said that bank would move forward on evictions and foreclosure
sales in the 23 states, including Illinois, where it was
reviewing its files.  “We are happy to respond to any questions from the sheriff
related to this matter,” Proia said.  JPMorgan Chase suspended foreclosure sales as it reviewed
more than 115,000 files.  Tom Kelly , a spokesman for New York-
based JPMorgan Chase, declined to comment on Dart’s initiative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M Harris  in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 