-- Chilean Peso Intervention Isn't Prudent `At This Time,' Central Bank Says
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s ,   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-10-19T17:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/chilean-peso-intervention-not-yet-prudent-central-bank-president-says.html
Chilean central bank President  Jose De Gregorio  said measures to weaken the peso, Latin America’s
best performing currency in the past three months, aren’t
prudent “at this time.”  The central bank hasn’t decided whether to buy dollars in
the spot market and will continue to monitor the peso, De
Gregorio said today at a conference in Santiago.  Chile’s currency has appreciated 9.4 percent against the
U.S. dollar in the past three months, making Chilean exports
more expensive in dollar terms and potentially cutting into
company profits. The bank last purchased dollars in the spot
market in 2008, when it bought $5.8 billion in pre-announced
daily auctions of $50 million.  “This is a global phenomenon,” De Gregorio said,
referring to a weakening of the dollar versus other currencies.
“You can apply measures or you don’t apply measures. Our
decision is that they haven’t been prudent at this time.”  Chile’s central bank hasn’t discussed whether to intervene
in currency markets, central bank Vice President  Manuel Marfan 
told reporters at a conference in Frankfurt today.  “The issue is being discussed at the country level,”
Marfan said. “The exchange rate now has been appreciating and
it’s almost in the boundary, or even slightly surpassed that.”  China Rates  Chile’s peso fell 1.2 percent today to 487.25 per dollar
after the Chinese central bank raised interest rates for the
first time since 2007.  The country’s real exchange rate -- a measure of its
strength against the currencies of trading partners adjusted for
inflation -- is below its long-term average as the dollar has
depreciated against global currencies, De Gregorio said.  The peso’s rise has lessened the need to raise interest
rates, he said, after the bank slowed the pace of increases on
Oct. 14, raising borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point
after four straight half-point increases.  “Any measure on the exchange rate we take we will announce
opportunely,” De Gregorio said. “Obviously not having made a
decision is a decision we’ve taken.”  Marfan said that steps taken recently by Brazil to stem its
currency’s gains are “nothing to condemn.”  Brazil’s Moves  Brazil’s government has raised inflow taxes to protect
exports from what Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  on Sept. 27
called a global “currency war.” The real has appreciated 6.6
percent against the dollar in the past three months.  Yesterday Mantega raised to 6 percent, from 4 percent, the
so-called IOF tax on foreigners’ investments in fixed-income
securities.  Chile’s government is taking steps to control the peso’s
gains that include cutting the rate of public spending
increases, reducing its use of dollars and providing credits for
small exporters, Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  said at the
Santiago conference today.  The government is studying “other alternatives” to
support exporters and may announce a new measure this week, he
told reporters after the conference, according to a statement e-
mailed by his press office. The government isn’t evaluating
strategies to control capital inflows, he said.  “We are suffering turbulence that has to do with the
exchange rate,” Larrain said during the conference. “We’re not
indifferent to the peso’s appreciation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  