-- China Official Says No Plans to Cut Rare Earth Quotas
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-19T03:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/china-official-says-no-plans-to-cut-rare-earth-export-quotas-for-next-year.html
China has no definite plans to cut
its export quota for rare earths next year, a senior official at
the department responsible for the minerals said at a conference
in Xiamen today.  “There is no such thing,” Jiang Fan, deputy director
general of the department of foreign trade at the Ministry of
Commerce, told Bloomberg News. “I haven’t heard any policy that
China will reduce rare earth exports by 30 percent next year.”  She was responding to a China Daily report that rare earth
export quotas for 2011 would be cut by as much as 30 percent.  China cut its export quota of rare earths, metals used to
make parts of hybrid cars, missiles and televisions, by 40
percent this year to boost prices and reduce pollution.  Export prices  of some rare earths oxides have surged as
much as tenfold this year from 2009, according to the website of
 Lynas Corp. , which is building a rare earth project in Australia.
Cerium oxide, which is used in automotive catalytic converters,
has jumped from $7.49 a kilogram in the second quarter, to $40
as of Oct. 18, according to Lynas Corp.  China’s medium and heavy rare earths reserves may last 15
years to 20 years at the current rate of production, possibly
requiring imports, the Ministry of Commerce said on Oct. 16.  Rare earths are 17 chemically similar elements, including
neodymium and dysprosium. The oxides are used in the production
of equipment for General Dynamics Corp.’s M1A2 Abrams tank and
Aegis SPY-1 radar made by Lockheed Martin Corp.  China has the largest share of worldwide reserves, about 36
percent, and the U.S. is second, with 13 percent, according to
the U.S. Geological Survey.  -- Xiao Yu . With assistance from  Feiwen Rong  in Beijing. Editors:
 Alan Soughley ,  Andrew Hobbs   To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story
Xiao Yu in Xiamen at   yxiao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs@bloomberg.net . 