-- China Hides Rampant Inflation in Money Binge: Patrick Chovanec
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C h o v a n e c
-- 2010-10-19T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/china-hides-rampant-inflation-in-money-binge-patrick-chovanec.html
Money, money everywhere. At least
that’s what it feels like at the moment in China. Awash in
luxury cars, condos and expensive jewelry, the Chinese are
enjoying what looks to be an unstoppable boom.  But inflation figures due to be released tomorrow should
give pause to those who assume China’s economy is on sound
footing. To an extent few fully appreciate, China’s astonishing
growth rates these past two years have been fueled by an even
more astonishing expansion of its money supply, by more than 50
percent. Until now, the inflationary consequences have been
largely camouflaged in the form of rising asset prices.  High-end  property prices  in dozens of Chinese cities have
doubled during the global financial crisis. Sales of gold bars
have done the same this year. Fine pieces of jade are selling at
$3,000 an ounce, up 50 percent in the past couple of months,
while packets of certain types of  dahongpao tea  are going for
$30,000 a kilogram. Art and wine auctions in China are pulling
in record prices, while the Shanghai stock market surged 8.5
percent last week to the highest level in almost six months.  Now there are signs that inflation is spilling over into
consumer prices. China’s CPI has been climbing steadily all
year, and Chinese officials are making noises about raising
their CPI target to 4 percent or even higher. Food prices gained
7.5 percent in August, from a year earlier. Economists estimate
wages are rising about 8 percent. HSBC Holdings Plc’s Purchasing
Manager Index survey for August reported a marked increase in
input costs being passed along in higher output prices.  Boom to Bust  As inflation comes out from hiding, authorities may be
forced to sharply rein in liquidity, turning China’s cash-fueled
boom into a bust.  If it seems like there’s a lot of money sloshing around the
Chinese economy, that’s because there is. Over the past two
years, M1 expanded by 56 percent, M2 by 53 percent. Currently,
even with much-touted “cooling measures,” both are still
growing at an annual rate of about 20 percent.  Unlike the U.S., China never really had a fiscal stimulus,
where the government spends its own money directly. The funding
for infrastructure and other projects to juice up the Chinese
economy came almost entirely from a boom in lending by the
state-run banking system.  In 2009, those banks made almost 10 trillion yuan in  new
loans  -- more than double any previous year -- expanding the
country’s loan portfolio by a third. This year, they will
probably lend 8 trillion yuan, almost twice as much as in 2008.  Cascade of Loans  Where did all that money come from? It came from Chinese
banks being allowed to draw down on their reserves, which opened
up a cascade of new lendable funds throughout the entire system.
China’s lending boom was, in effect, a massive monetary
stimulus, or “quantitative easing.”  The pressure behind this monetary eruption had been
building for some time. For years, China has been running big
trade surpluses. To maintain the yuan’s peg to the dollar, its
central bank must buy up the excess dollars earned by Chinese
exporters, to be stockpiled as foreign-exchange reserves, and
issue yuan in exchange. Normally, that newly issued yuan would
add to China’s domestic money supply and fuel inflation.  To prevent that, authorities try to “sterilize” the
monetary expansion by forcing banks to hold higher levels of
reserve deposits and buy special central-bank bonds. In short,
there was a huge reservoir of liquidity bottled up in China’s
banks, just waiting to be let out. The low loan-to-deposit ratio
of Chinese banks, often touted as evidence of their financial
solidity, is really a product of pent-up inflation.  Hidden Inflation  The main tool used to boost bank reserves was the annual
lending quota imposed by the central bank. Since banks could
lend up to the quota, but no more, most had no choice but to
hold excess reserves beyond their reserve-requirement ratios.
Then last year, the lending quota went out the window. Actual
reserve ratios fell from 21 percent to about 17 percent.  China’s central bank issued more “sterilization” bonds,
but effectively, it stopped sterilizing. Trillions of yuan,
formerly locked up in bank reserves, flowed into the economy.
The amount of yuan created far exceeds even China’s nominal,
stimulus-fueled gross-domestic-product growth for the period.  When money is created at a faster rate than real economic
growth, the result is inflation. Yet so far this year, China’s
official statistics show consumer inflation at barely over 3
percent. Those figures have many economists scratching their
heads, wondering where the inflation went, while most people in
China seem content to believe their country has found a
fantastic new formula for prosperity.  Asset Bubble  In reality, there is rampant inflation in China. It’s just
showing up in asset prices. The new money that was created
entered the  economy  as loans, mainly to fund investment in fixed
assets. When it finally reached consumers, they bought
tangibles, like property, instead of spending on consumer goods.  Asset-price inflation is tricky because it doesn’t feel
like inflation. When the price of bread doubles, it feels like
it’s getting harder to make ends meet. When condo prices double,
it looks like smart investors are getting rich. But it’s only a
matter of time before asset inflation starts working its way
through the rest of the economy as broader price inflation --
and puts China’s policy makers in a serious bind.  ( Patrick Chovanec  is an associate professor at Tsinghua
University’s School of Economics and Management in Beijing and
is an independent fund adviser. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Patrick Chovanec at  prchovanec@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  