-- China Key Stock Index Closes Above 3,000 Level for First Time Since April
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-19T08:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/china-s-stocks-fluctuate-as-commodities-producers-gain-developers-decline.html
China’s stocks gained, driving the
benchmark index above the 3,000 level for the first time since
April, as technology and consumer companies rose on speculation
the industries will gain from the country’s next five-year plan.  Tsinghua Tongfang Co. , a computer manufacturer, jumped by
the 10 percent daily limit and Sanan Optoelectronics Co. gained
4.7 percent after the government said information technology
will form a bigger part of the economy.  Gree Electric Appliances
Inc.  and SAIC Motor Corp. paced gains by companies reliant on
consumer spending after the ruling party pledged to increase
household incomes as part of the next economic plan.  “China is shifting from a labor-intensive economic model
to more higher-valued industries,” said  Mark Tan , a Singapore-
based portfolio manager at UOB Asset Management Ltd., which
oversees about $12 billion. “The five-year plan is a road map
to where we can expect higher growth.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  rose 1.6 percent to 3,000.85,
the first time it closed above that level since April 21 and the
highest since April 21. The CSI Smallcap 500 Index, which tracks
smaller companies on the Shanghai and Shenzhen bourses, jumped
3.1 percent, the most since May 24. The  CSI 300 Index  added 2.1
percent to 3,375.67.  The Shanghai Composite, which has rebounded 27 percent
since the 2010 low on July 5, entered a so-called bull market on
Oct. 12. The index plunged a similar amount in the first half of
the year as the government raised banks’ reserve requirements
and curbed lending to cool the economy and avert asset bubbles.  Chinese stocks were raised to “neutral” from
“underweight” by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. on
the view the market remains a laggard even after posting Asia’s
best gains this month. The Shanghai Composite has rallied 13
percent in October, trimming its losses for the year to 8.4
percent. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index and  MSCI Asia excluding
Japan Index  have climbed more than 11 percent in 2010.  Five-Year Plan  The Communist Party central committee pledged yesterday to
boost household incomes in rural and urban areas as part of the
nation’s next five-year plan. China is also aiming for strategic
emerging industries, which include information technology and
high-end equipment manufacturers, to contribute around 8 percent
of its GDP by the year 2015 and 15 percent by 2010, the
government said on its website yesterday.  A gauge of technology stocks jumped 4.7 percent, while
consumer discretionary stocks rose 4.1 percent, the two biggest
gains among the 10 industry groups in the CSI 300. Tsinghua
Tongfang gained 10 percent to 25.38 yuan.  Aisino Co. , a
telecommunication equipment maker, added 6.4 percent to 20.17.  Chinese technology and software companies were rated
“overweight” in new coverage at CCBI Securities Ltd., which
said the government’s “macro stimulus” will boost technology
spending in coming years.  Consumer Stocks  Gree Electric, a household appliance maker, led gains for
consumer stocks, gaining 3.8 percent to 17.02 yuan. GD Midea
climbed 2.7 percent to 17.16 yuan.  SAIC Motor , China’s largest
automaker, jumped 10 percent to 20.64 yuan.  A gauge of consumer discretionary stocks surged 4.1 percent
for the second-steepest gain among the groups in the CSI 300.
Chinese consumer-related companies will benefit most from the
next plan,  Jing Ulrich , JPMorgan Chase & Co. chairwoman of
equities and commodities, said last month.  China’s large-cap stocks will lead a rally in the country’s
equities as investors switch from smaller companies that trade
at higher valuations, according to Bosera Asset Management Co.  “The divergence in performance between large- and small-
cap stocks will increase,” said  Deng Xiaofeng , a fund manager
at Bosera Asset, China’s third-largest money manager with $31
billion in assets according to Institutional Investor. “Every
dip is a good opportunity to buy low-valuation large-cap
stocks.”  Fund Flows  Cash is pouring into China to profit from economic growth
that’s averaged more than 10 percent for the past five years an
faster yuan gains following the end in June of a two-year peg.  Emerging-market equity funds have attracted more than $60
billion of net inflows this year as central banks in the Europe
and Japan stepped up efforts to reduce borrowing costs, spurring
demand for higher-yielding assets, according to research firm
EPFR Global.  -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai. Editors:  Richard Frost ,  Allen Wan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at +86-21-6014-3048 or
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at   lchua@bloomberg.net  