-- China Rate Move May Lure Capital, Complicating Inflation Fight
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-20T04:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/china-central-bank-raises-one-year-lending-deposit-rates-25-basis-points.html
China’s decision to raise interest
rates to combat inflation may have the opposite effect by luring
more capital into the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  The central bank yesterday unexpectedly raised borrowing
costs for the first time since 2007, lifting the benchmark one-
year lending rate to 5.56 percent from 5.31 percent. The  deposit
rate  was increased to 2.5 percent from 2.25 percent.  China’s policy makers are trying to curb lending and
prevent an asset-price bubble in a country that surpassed Japan
in the second quarter as the world’s second-largest economy. The
danger is that higher rates will funnel speculative money from
abroad into China, pushing property and consumer prices higher.
The move comes days before Group of 20 officials gather in South
Korea to discuss the global economy amid disagreements on
whether the yuan is undervalued.  “There is a risk the hike does exacerbate capital inflows
and will complicate inflation matters,” said  Ben Simpfendorfer ,
an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. in Hong Kong.
“But the property sector was the greater risk and demanded
strong action.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  rose 0.7 percent as of the
11:30 a.m. local time break in trading after earlier falling as
much as 2 percent. The yuan pared a decline against the dollar
to 0.1 percent, trading at 6.6541 as of 11:56 a.m. after earlier
tumbling 0.3 percent.  Unexpected Move  Crude oil tumbled the most in eight months on concern
higher Chinese rates will crimp demand in the world’s biggest
energy user, before recouping part of that loss today. The  MSCI
gauge of equities in developed nations  declined 0.2 percent,
extending yesterday’s 1.6 percent drop.  Thirteen of the 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
last month forecast that lending rates would stay unchanged this
year. Central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  on Oct. 8 signaled
that bank reserve requirements and bill sales were sufficient
tools to control inflation.  Currency analysts were split on the implications for the
yuan, which is at the heart of international arguments about
rebalancing the global economy.  Morgan Stanley said the yuan’s appreciation will continue,
leaving unchanged a forecast for the currency to be at 6.6 per
dollar by year end. In contrast,  Dariusz Kowalczyk , a Hong Kong-
based economist and strategist for Credit Agricole CIB, said
policy makers will be under less pressure to strengthen the yuan
“given that inflation is now tackled through rates.”  Yuan Forwards  The central bank set the yuan’s daily reference rate 0.3
percent weaker at 6.6754 per dollar today, the biggest decline
since August, reflecting a rally in the greenback. The 12-month
non-deliverable forwards fell 0.22 percent to 6.4500 per dollar
in Hong Kong, reflecting bets the currency will strengthen about
3.2 percent in one year’s time.  Officials acted before data tomorrow that may show
inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in almost two years in
September. Consumer prices probably climbed 3.6 percent from a
year earlier and the economy grew 9.5 percent in the third
quarter, according to median forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey.  China is trying to mop up some of the liquidity unleashed
by last year’s record 9.59 trillion yuan ($1.4 trillion)  credit
boom  that formed its main response to the global recession.  Property Speculation  The  Shanghai Composite Index  has jumped about 27 percent
from a low in July, and the government is clamping down on real-
estate speculation after record price gains this year.  Inflows of capital contributed to an unprecedented $194
billion increase in the nation’s  foreign-exchange reserves  last
quarter, highlighting the risk of excess liquidity fueling more
price gains.  The Chinese government is almost certain to impose more
capital controls to curb “hot money” inflows after yesterday’s
move, said  Lu Ting , a Bank of America-Merrill Lynch economist.
 Tao Dong , a Credit Suisse Group AG economist, had a similar view,
adding that capital inflows may be a “lesser evil” than
inflation.  “The rate rise suggests that officials think that currency
inflows are manageable,” said  Mark Williams , a London-based
economist at Capital Economics Ltd., who worked at the U.K.
Treasury as an advisor on China from 2005 to 2007. “The
People’s Bank successfully mopped up much bigger inflows in the
past than we have seen recently.”  Capital Inflows  Countries from South Korea to Brazil are seeking to control
capital flows to limit gains in their currencies, a topic that
will feature at this week’s Group of 20 nations meetings in
South Korea. Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , the
official who said that the world is in a “currency war,”
welcomed China’s move yesterday as a step “in the right
direction” that may help strengthen the yuan against the dollar.  The interest-rate increase came after the central bank
separately drained money from the financial system. Officials
raised the reserve requirements for six banks for a two-month
period, three people with knowledge of the matter said last week.  The size of the increase -- 25 basis points, rather than 27
-- may suggest that the central bank is shifting towards
following the conventions of international counterparts,
Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said in an e-mail.  Negative Rates  Peter Redward , an analyst at Barclays Plc in Singapore,
said the increase may reflect growing concern that negative real
interest rates, where inflation outstrips returns on savings,
will push more money into asset markets.  China’s  property prices  in 70 cities rose 9.1 percent in
September from a year earlier, according to the statistics
bureau. Officials have extended curbs on property purchases,
including tougher down-payment requirements and more
restrictions on home loans.  China will speed up the introduction of a trial property
tax in some cities and then expand the levy to the whole country,
the government said Sept. 29. The state also told commercial
banks to stop offering loans to buyers of third homes and
extended a 30 percent down-payment requirement to all first-home
buyers.  China could continue its efforts to tame inflation by
lifting interest rates in tandem with other economic policies,
 John Lipsky , the International Monetary Fund’s first deputy
managing director, said in an interview in Tokyo today.  “This move is consistent with their broader policies,”
Lipsky said. “I don’t believe they look to monetary policy or
interest rate policy alone as a way of moderating growth in
inflation pressures. But it’s perfectly possible that they’ll,
if needed, continue to use interest rates as well as other
policies.”  -- Li Yanping ,  Shamim Adam ,  Zheng Lifei ,  Sandy Hendry , Keiko
Ujikane. Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Stephanie Phang .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  