-- China's Factories Turn to Yangtze River to Escape Higher Wages
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-10-19T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/china-s-factories-turn-to-yangtze-river-to-escape-coastal-wage-inflation.html
The manufacturing boom spreading
through central China echoes through the night on the wharfs of
the Yangtze River in Shanghai as workers unload car parts,
canned food and building materials.  “There are too many ships and we can hardly secure a
place,” said Cui Ming, a local manager for Chongqing JHJ
Shipping Co., after a company vessel was unloaded at the Jungong
Road Dock. “The business is growing so massively, we sometimes
need to get up at midnight and rush to the dock to assist our
ships to get a berth.”  China’s manufacturers are moving factories inland to
benefit from lower wages than coastal regions and government
 incentives  to spur economic development. That is creating
traffic jams on Asia’s longest river, prompting the nation’s
biggest container terminal operators,  Cosco Pacific Ltd.  and
 China Merchants Holdings International Co. , to invest in ports
along the 6,300 kilometer-long (3,915 mile-long) Yangtze, which
reaches Tibet.  China Merchants affiliate  Shanghai International Port Group
Co. , operator of the world’s busiest harbor, plans to spend 4.79
billion yuan ($720.9 million) building five wharfs to handle
containers and vehicles, according to its semi-annual report.  Cosco Pacific  Ningbo Port Co. , operator of the second-busiest, raised 7.4
billion yuan in an initial public offering last month and plans
to use the proceeds to build coal and container berths.  “There is a grand plan to go west,” said  Johnson Leung ,
an analyst at Tufton Oceanic Far East Ltd. in Hong Kong. “It
will be good business for port operators.”  The Yangtze, the third-longest river in the world after the
Amazon and Nile, handles 80 percent of China’s river freight.
The waterway ferried 1.34 billion tons of cargo in 2009, more
than triple the 400 million tons it carried in 2000, according
to government data.  Cosco Pacific, controlled by China’s largest shipping group,
holds  stakes  in terminal-operating ventures in Yangtze delta
feeder ports, including Yangzhou and Zhangjiagang.  “There’s vast potential to grow the operations at China’s
river ports,” said  Xu Minjie , vice chairman and managing
director of the China Cosco Holdings Co. affiliate.  China Merchants  China Merchants said in July it plans to acquire 20 percent
of Chu Kong River Trade Terminal Co., owned by  Chu Kong Shipping
Development Co. , the biggest  shipping agent  by fleet size in the
Pearl River Delta in southern China.  “There are many opportunities that will arise as factories
relocate to inland China from the coastal cities,” said Nelson
Liu, deputy managing director of Hong Kong-based China Merchants,
which owns stakes in ports moving a third of China’s containers.  “We’re putting the infrastructure in place to tap the
rising demand.”  Lee & Man Paper Manufacturing Ltd.  is spending HK$1.4
billion to build a new plant in Jiangxi province that will start
operating in 2012, said Clement Chan, group vice president of
the Hong Kong-based containerboard maker.  Companies moving cargo via the nation’s rivers may generate
savings of 20-30 percent compared with highways because of lower
tolls and tariffs, said  Raymond Yu , China Merchants’ executive
director.  Seventeen container ships dock up the Yangtze in Wuhan
every day, compared with three a decade ago, said Wang Yongwei,
general manager of central China for JHJ International
Transportation Co., based in Wuhan. When dry-bulk ships and
tankers are counted, the number tops 100 from about 30.  ‘Go West’ Policy  “In the old days, there wasn’t much cargo to be moved,”
Wang said. “Now, with manufacturing moving to central and
western China, the river is flourishing with ships.”  Urban fixed asset investment in the west rose 27 percent to
3.4 trillion yuan in the first eight months of this year,
according to the National Development and Reform Commission, the
top economic planning agency.  About 200,000 enterprises from coastal areas have invested
more than 2.2 trillion yuan there in recent years, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in October 2009.  The State Council, or cabinet, last month  announced 
incentives including waiving customs duties, pushing financial
organizations to provide lines of credit to relocating companies
and encouraging foreign banks to open branches in the interior.  43 Billion Yuan  “We have been moving some factories to cheaper regions,”
said  Cliff Sun , chairman of the  Federation of Hong Kong
Industries , which has more than 2,000 corporate members.
“Manufacturers can’t raise prices too much. The only choice for
them is to move to regions where manufacturing costs, wages are
cheaper.”  China’s urban per capita disposable income in the first
half of this year rose 10.2 percent from a year earlier in
nominal terms to 9,757 yuan, the national statistics bureau said
July 15.  In rural areas, per capita cash income in the first half
rose 12.6 percent from a year earlier in nominal terms to 3,078
yuan, the bureau said.  China will spend 43 billion yuan between now and 2020,
compared with 6.2 billion yuan during the past 61 years, to
build and upgrade berthing facilities along the Yangtze and to
deepen the riverbed, according to the  Changjiang River
Administration of Navigational Affairs , a unit of the transport
ministry.  China wants to  expand  the amount of waterways able to
accommodate vessels weighing more than 500 tons to 19,000
kilometers from 16,000 kilometers last year. River freight may
triple to 6 billion tons by 2020, according to the city-backed
 Shanghai International Shipping Institute .  Cui’s vessel, the Jiangjiyun 1201, will be loaded with
aluminum rolls and scrap steel before making a 12-day journey
back to Chongqing. The rusting, faded vessel travels non-stop
between the city and Shanghai with a crew of 15.  “Ships always need to queue here for loading and uploading
these days,” Cui said. “In the past, we didn’t need to queue
at all.”  -- Winnie Zhu . With assistance from  Helen Sun  in Shanghai and
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore. Editors:  Michael Tighe ,  Bret Okeson .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net ;
 Winnie Zhu  in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  