-- Chinese Power Plant Coal Imports Robust as Winter Arrives, Commodore Says
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-10-19T04:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/chinese-power-plant-coal-imports-robust-as-winter-arrives-commodore-says.html
Power-station coal imports to China,
the world’s biggest energy consumer, will probably be supported
by rising electricity demand after the early onset of winter,
Commodore Research & Consultancy said.  China’s power needs may reach a record in winter and
thermal-coal demand “will likely remain robust,” Commodore
said in an e-mailed note today. “We expect a surge in vessels
to be chartered towards the end of the month to import” the
fuel, Commodore said.  Falling temperatures in parts of China’s northeast, the
country’s biggest corn and soybean-producing region, may bring
freezing weather and negatively affect crops, Grain.gov.cn, a
portal owned by the China National Grain & Oils Information
Center, said in an e-mailed report last month. Coal stockpiles
at Qinhuangdao port have been “declining sharply” since the
end of September, Commodore said today.  Australia will export a moderate amount to China and may
see an increase at the end of October or early November, when
demand is expected to surge,  Jeffrey Landsberg , president of New
York-based Commodore, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
Forecast heavy rainfall in Queensland state may limit shipments,
according to Landsberg.  Queensland, which produces 95 percent of Australia’s sugar
and is the country’s largest coal exporter, may get more
tropical storms than average this season because of the La Nina
weather pattern, the bureau said on Oct. 4. The state’s cyclone
season extends from November to April.  “So it’s Australia and Indonesia as the major sources of
coal to China, and to a lesser extent, South Africa and
Russia,” Landsberg said. “Colombia, the United States and
Canada will export more coal to China when demand is strong and
supply is very tight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell in Singapore at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 