-- Chrysler Says Dealers With Express Lane Service Double Oil-Change Business
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-10-19T16:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/chrysler-says-dealers-with-express-lane-service-double-oil-change-business.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S.
automaker run by  Fiat SpA , said dealers who set up quick-lube
services as part of the company’s push to improve customer
treatment are doubling their oil-change business in one year.  The faster service is part of the automaker’s drive to
improve buyers’ experience and make the outlets more competitive
with independent repair shops, said  Pietro Gorlier , chief
executive officer of Chrysler’s Mopar service, parts and
customer care division.  Gorlier aims to increase the proportion of U.S. Chrysler
dealers open on Saturdays to 80 percent by the end of next year
from 68 percent now and 60 percent last year. He also wants 80
percent of the dealers to offer express service by the end of
2014, up from 22 percent.  “All of the dealers who’ve implemented an Express Lane
have had incredible results,” Gorlier said in an interview.
“There is a huge potential that all of the manufacturers,
including Chrysler, that we’re not capturing due to the
competition in the after sales.”  Chrysler dealers are outnumbered 37-to-1 by independent
repair facilities, said Gorlier, who took over as Mopar’s chief
in June 2009. Chrysler has 2,317 U.S. dealers.  Some dealers avoided providing services after sales because
they don’t make a lot of money from oil changes, Gorlier said.  “You start with an oil change then you move to tires, to
batteries, brakes” and to bigger repairs later in the life of
the vehicle, he said.  Service Business  Dealers who offer Saturday service hours increased their
service business by 20 percent, said  Bryan Zvibleman , a Chrysler
spokesman. The Express Lane Service has doubled dealers’ oil-
change business in the first year, on average. They’re selling
three times more tires, four times more batteries, six times
more windshield wipers and seven times more air filters, he
said.  The average dealer makes more money from parts and service
than selling new cars because the business has higher profit
margins,  Stephen Spivey , a senior auto analyst at Frost &
Sullivan Inc. in San Antonio, said in a telephone interview.  “People are keeping their vehicles longer, which you’ve
seen over the past two, three years as the new vehicle  market 
has sort of gone in the tank,” Spivey said. “As a function of
people keeping their vehicles longer, they may be paying more
attention to accessories, maintenance, things that make the
vehicle look better or run better.”  Revenue Gains  Milosch’s Palace Chrysler Jeep Dodge in Lake Orion,
Michigan, began opening on Saturdays about 18 months ago and
started a quick oil change service a few months later.  Revenue from non-warranty work in Milosch’s parts and
service shop in August rose 44 percent from a year earlier, just
after the dealership opened the Express Lane Service, said Jim
Gentry, Milosch’s service director. The Express Lane cut
customers’ wait time in half to about 30 minutes and eliminated
the need for reservations, Gentry said.  The average number of oil changes increased “instantly”
and is now about 1,400 a month, up from 600, Gentry said.  “Everybody thinks dealers are expensive, that’s the reason
they don’t come to us, and that we’re inconvenient,” Donald
Milosch, one of the dealer’s owners, said in an interview.
“With Express Lube and Saturdays, we’re trying to change that
image.”  Increased Traffic  The increased traffic has helped boost the dealership’s
orders for Mopar parts, such as oil filters and bulbs, by almost
50 percent, Gentry said.  The effort comes as Chrysler Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  plans to take the automaker public, probably
in the second half of next year. Marchionne said last month the
offering may be “relatively small” and happen in “chunks” so the
automaker can establish a base market for the shares.  Gorlier, the Mopar executive, declined to say how much the
efforts were boosting Chrysler’s revenue. He plans to talk about
Mopar’s aftermarket products at the Specialty Equipment Market
Association’s annual convention on Nov. 2 in Las Vegas.  Chrysler, which emerged from bankruptcy reorganization in
2009, is introducing 16 new or refreshed vehicles this year, and
Gorlier said Mopar is ready with accessories for those vehicles.  Chrysler historically had been late with after-market parts
for its cars, sometimes taking as long as six months to produce
an offering, allowing competitors to take business, he said.  “My target is to be right there when the car is launched
with almost all of the accessories ready to go,” Gorlier said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 Thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  