-- Citigroup Eyes Asia, Europe in `Leaner' Year for Commodities
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2010-10-19T09:54:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/citigroup-adds-asia-europe-commodities-jobs-in-leaner-year-for-trading.html
Citigroup Inc. , the bank 12 percent-
owned by U.S. taxpayers, is adding the largest number of new
commodity jobs in Asia and Europe amid a “leaner” year for raw
materials, said  Stuart Staley , the global head of the business.  The bank, which has about 270 people in commodities, is
also seeking to win over more investors, adding to revenue from
corporate clients, Managing Director Staley said in an interview
in Amsterdam on Oct. 17. Citigroup, based in New York, started
trading iron ore and the physical markets in liquefied natural
gas and thermal coal this year, he said.  “It’s been a leaner year than the past two years across
the sector,” Staley said, declining to detail the bank’s
commodity revenue. “We’re adding disproportionately to Asia and
Europe whereas the U.S. business is the most mature part.”  Citigroup hired  Rob Biro  from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. this
year to lead global oil trading in Singapore, becoming the first
U.S. bank to base a worldwide trading head in the city. Banks
including Standard Chartered Ltd., Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. and Societe Generale SA have sought to hire
energy traders in Asia, responding to increasing regional demand
for oil, coal and natural gas.  Revenue from commodities will probably be lower than in the
previous two years, which were both records, Staley said. Crude
oil rose 4.3 percent this year and natural gas plunged 38
percent, spurring less demand for corporate clients seeking to
hedge against higher prices, he said. Crude surged 78 percent
last year in New York trading.  ‘Emerging Markets’  “We remain very bullish about returns from the sector in
particular given the economic growth we’re seeing out of
emerging markets,” Staley said.  China overtook the U.S. as the world’s biggest energy user
last year, the International Energy Agency said in July. China’s
economy expanded 10.3 percent in the second quarter, compared
with 1.7 percent in the U.S.  Citigroup added about 30 people in commodities this year
and increased trading in physical crude oil and refined products
markets, he said. More people want to invest in commodities
through physical transactions rather than futures, Staley said.  The  S&P GSCI Spot Index  of 24 commodities rose 8.3 percent
this year, after rebounding 50 percent last year.  Staley, 44, took over as global head of commodities at
Citigroup this year, succeeding  John Casaudoumecq . He moved to
London from Houston, where he started at the bank six years ago
running the North American commodities business. He was
previously chief executive officer of AEP Energy Services Ltd.
in London and also worked for Enron Corp. in Houston and London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claudia Carpenter  at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 