-- CLP Revenue Increases 16% as Hong Kong, Australian Power Demand Recovers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-19T05:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/clp-revenue-increases-16-as-hong-kong-australian-power-demand-recovers.html
CLP Holdings Ltd. , the biggest power
supplier in Hong Kong, said revenue rose 16 percent in the first
nine months as a recovery in the city’s economy boosted
consumption and demand in Australia increased.  Sales climbed to HK$43.5 billion ($5.6 billion) from
HK$37.6 billion a year earlier, CLP said in a statement to the
Hong Kong stock exchange today. Sales in the city rose 4.3
percent to HK$21.9 billion.  The gains in Hong Kong were “supported by the commercial
sector and the infrastructure and public services sector, which
benefited from the economic recovery and improved consumer
sentiment,” according to the statement.  The utility has  invested  in power projects in mainland
China, Australia, India, Vietnam and Taiwan to tap demand in the
world’s fastest-growing region. CLP’s revenue from its power
business in Australia jumped 36 percent to HK$19.2 billion in
the nine-month period from a year earlier.  The shares have surged 22 percent this year in Hong Kong
trading, beating the 7.8 percent increase in the benchmark Hang
Seng index. CLP rose 1.4 percent to HK$63.90 at the midday break,
before the revenue announcement.  Third-quarter revenue climbed 12 percent to HK$15.9 billion
from a year earlier, according to Bloomberg calculations made by
subtracting sales for the first half from the nine-month figure
released today.  CLP plans to bid for large coal-fired plants in India and
may sell shares in its local unit to fund future investments,
 Raji Ranjan Mishra , the manager director of CLP India Pvt., said
last month.  The utility’s unit TRUenergy Pty. is continuing to evaluate
a possible bid for New South Wales state electricity assets in
Australia, Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Brandler  said Sept. 28.  -- Winnie Zhu  and  Wang Ying . Editors:  Ryan Woo , Amit Prakash.  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net ;
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 