-- CMBS Yields Fall to 2010 Low, Spur Sales, Beat Companies: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-10-20T15:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/cmbs-yields-fall-to-10-low-spur-sales-beat-company-debt-credit-markets.html
Relative yields on commercial
mortgage bonds have fallen to the lowest this year as investors
look beyond climbing delinquencies and unprecedented defaults in
a wager the worst is over for the debt.  The $3.6 billion commercial-mortgage backed bond issued by
GS Mortgage Securities Trust, used as a market barometer because
it trades frequently, pays 279 basis points more than the
benchmark swap rate, down from 500 basis points at the end of
2009, according to RBS Securities Inc. data. Bonds rated AA and
tied to property loans have soared 9.4 percent since June 30,
compared with 4.2 percent for similarly rated corporate debt,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The  Federal Reserve  is fueling demand for debt backed by
commercial property loans by holding interest rates near zero,
boosting prices and reviving sales after the market shut down
two years ago amid the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression. Wells Fargo & Co. and Bank of America Corp. are
marketing the securities, two weeks after JPMorgan Chase & Co.
raised $1.1 billion in this year’s largest offering of the debt.  “A lot of things look better in commercial real estate
than they did a year ago,” said  Brian Lancaster , a fixed-income
strategist at RBS Securities in Stamford, Connecticut. “It’s
not a rosy picture, but there is stabilization.”  Riskier Bonds  Falling yields on the safest class of commercial mortgage
securities are driving buyers to the riskier bonds, said  Scott Buchta , head of investment strategy at New York-based broker
Braver Stern Securities LLC, which focuses on securitized debt.  Prices on so-called mezzanine and junior commercial-
mortgage backed securities, originally rated AAA, have risen as
much as 10 cents on the dollar during the past two weeks, with
some debt trading as high as 104 cents on the dollar, according
to Wells Fargo Securities data.  Derivative prices linked to lower-rated commercial mortgage
bonds have also soared in a sign of greater confidence.
Contracts on a Markit CMBX  index  tied to bonds rated AA at
issuance have increased 15 cents to about 73 cents on the dollar
during the past month, according to JPMorgan.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar maturity
government debt was unchanged at 168 basis points, or 1.68
percentage point, down 13 basis points since Aug. 31, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate
Index. Yields averaged 3.416 percent.  UnitedHealth Group  UnitedHealth Group Inc. , the biggest U.S. health insurer by
revenue, plans to sell $750 million of debt in its first bond
offering since February 2008. The insurer may issue 10- and 30-
year debt as soon as today, according to a person familiar with
the transaction.  Proceeds will be added to general funds and may be used to
meet working capital requirements, repurchase or refinance
outstanding securities, or to fund acquisitions, UnitedHealth
said today in a regulatory filing that didn’t include the size
or maturities of the sale.  Benchmark indicators of corporate credit risk in the U.S.
and Europe fell. Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North
America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declined 1.5 basis points to a mid-price of
98.7 basis points as of 11:41 a.m. in New York, according to
index administrator Markit Group Ltd. In London, the Markit
iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-grade
ratings fell 0.2 to 101.4.  Corporate Bonds  Credit swap indexes typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Contracts pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Relative yields on investment-grade corporate bonds have
declined 31 basis points to 182 since this year’s peak on June
11, compared with the low of 151 in April, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index.  Spreads on benchmark commercial property bonds narrowed to
a low this year of 265 on Oct. 13, RBS data show.  The rally in the commercial-mortgage backed bond market has
been sparked in part by investors wagering that real estate may
be recovering after the worst economic downturn since World War
II sapped demand for office and retail space.  Still, U.S. commercial property prices tumbled for a third
straight month in August, and are now 45.1 percent below the
peaks in October 2007, Moody’s Investors Service said in a
report yesterday.  Building Owners  More financing has become available for building owners in
the past year, which helps borrowers that have struggled to pay
off maturing debt, according to RBS’ Lancaster.  Wells Fargo and Bank of America started marketing $735.9
million of bonds backed by commercial mortgages, according to a
person familiar with the offering.  The pool is composed of 31.2 percent retail properties,
28.5 percent office space and 12.8 percent industrial buildings,
said the person, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t public.  Deutsche Bank AG  is marketing $856.6 million of bonds
backed by commercial mortgages, according to a person familiar
with the transaction.  Bank of America and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are planning a
$3 billion sale backed by debt left over from the 2007 buyout of
Hilton Worldwide, Bloomberg News reported in June.  ‘Positive News’  The offerings will add to about $4.7 billion of the bonds
that have been issued this year, compared with $3.4 billion last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales may reach
$35 billion in 2011, according to S&P.  Issuance tumbled 95 percent to $11.2 billion in 2008 from a
record $234 billion in 2007, choking off funding to property
owners. Spreads reached more than 15 percentage points in
November 2008, according to a Barclays Capital index.  “Lately we’ve actually seen some positive news,” said  Tom Sontag , a money manager at Neuberger Berman Group LLC with $16
billion in assets under management. “So much negative news was
priced in.”  Leasing activity in Manhattan, the largest U.S. office
market, increased 51.6 percent to 17.25 million square feet in
the three months ended Sept. 30 compared to a year earlier, CB
Richard Ellis Group Inc. said in an Oct. 13 statement.  Late Payments  Late payments on commercial mortgages bundled and sold as
bonds are at a record 8.24 percent, compared with 3.64 a year
ago, according to Moody’s. About $335 billion of the securities
come due through 2015, JPMorgan data shows.  “One has to question if the levels on some bonds are not
ignoring the issues still facing the market,” said  Darrell Wheeler , an analyst at Amherst Securities Group LP. “The
refinancing problem will become larger next year and in 2012.”  With defaults rising and property prices falling, investing
in anything but the most senior bonds means making bets on
individual properties, according to Neuberger’s Sontag, who
holds about $5 billion of commercial-mortgage securities.  “If there is an unforeseen problem with one of the largest
loans in the deal, it will have a much bigger impact,” on the
mezzanine and junior bonds, Sontag said. “We stay at the top of
the capital structure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  