-- Coal India Employees Spurn First Share Sale as Unions Oppose Privatization
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-10-19T14:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/coal-india-employees-spurn-first-share-sale-as-unions-oppose-privatization.html
Employees of state-owned  Coal India
Ltd. , the world’s largest producer, are spurning the country’s
biggest initial public offering, bucking outside investors who
bid for 1.7 times the number of shares on sale today.  With two days to go before the offer closes, funds, non-
institutional and retail investors placed bids for 1.08 billion
of the 631.6 million shares on offer, according to data on the
National Stock Exchange’s website as of 5 p.m. in Mumbai.
Employees bid for less than 1 percent of the shares set aside
for them, the data showed.  Coal India has so far received at least 243 billion rupees
($5.5 billion) of bids. Shares are being offered at 225 rupees
to 245 rupees apiece and the sale ends Oct. 21.  “The employee part will probably not get fully
subscribed,” Chairman  Partha Bhattacharyya  said in New Delhi
today. The 6.31 million shares reserved for employees will be
reallocated to other investors, he said.  Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh, a trade union with almost 1 million
members according to its  website , is discouraging employees from
buying shares due to fears that partial privatization of the
state-owned company could lead to job losses, General Secretary
K. Lakshma Reddy said. The union held a nationwide strike
yesterday to oppose the sale, he said.  ‘No Job Security’  “This is the first step toward privatization, and our
experience is that with privatization there is no job
security,” Reddy said in a telephone interview today. “Any
fine morning, it may close down.”  Institutional and retail investors have flocked to the
offering on expectations that Coal India stands to benefit from
surging fuel demand in India, where 56 percent of power is
generated from coal, according to August  data  from the Central
Electricity Authority. The government aims to boost power
generation 13-fold by 2030 to sustain growth in Asia’s second-
fastest growing major economy.  The government is selling a 10 percent stake in the company
or 631.6 million shares. Of that, 10 percent was reserved for
employees, 45 percent for retail and non-institutional investors,
and the remaining 45 percent for funds and institutional buyers.  “We offered employees so many shares because we thought
that if the company today is what it is, it is because of the
employees,” Bhattacharyya said. “I have been speaking to trade
unions to allow employees to subscribe.”  Coal India shares may start trading on the stock exchanges
from Nov. 4, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  