-- Coca-Cola Earnings Increase 8.4%, Beating Analysts' Estimates
-- B y   I a n   T h o m s o n   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2010-10-19T20:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/coca-cola-earnings-increase-8-4-beating-analysts-estimates.html
Coca-Cola Co. , the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, boosted third-quarter profit by 8.4 percent
after winning more customers overseas and increasing North
American sales volume for the second quarter in a row.  Net income  advanced to $2.06 billion, or 88 cents a share,
the Atlanta-based company said today in a statement. Excluding
some items, profit was 92 cents, compared with the 89-cent
 average  of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company also
said it may repurchase $2 billion of its shares this year, up
from the $1.5 billion announced previously.  Volumes in the Eurasia and Africa group grew 12 percent,
making it the fastest-growing unit, as Coca-Cola launched new
drinks in India and Russia. Coca-Cola, led by Chief Executive
Officer  Muhtar Kent , also boosted North American sales volume 2
percent, the second such increase since 2007. North American
volume dropped 2 percent last year.  “The stabilization in North America is a sign consumers
are willing to make impulse purchases of soft drinks again,”
 Philip Gorham , a senior equity analyst for Morningstar Inc. in
Chicago, said today in a telephone interview. “It shows the
environment is beginning to thaw.” Gorham rates the shares as
“fairly valued.”  The shares rose 34 cents to $60.34 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. That compared with a 1 percent
drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Consumer Staples Index.  China Growth  Coca-Cola’s  sales rose to $8.43 billion, beating the
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Global
sales by drink volume grew 5 percent, driven by brand Coca-Cola.
That compared with a 4 percent drop in the same quarter last
year. China posted 12 percent volume growth while Japan grew 11
percent.  The 2 percent volume gain in North America matched that
unit’s gain in the second quarter as the unit reconfigures
package sizes, such as adding 99-cent bottles, and pricing
strategies amid high unemployment. Sales for the unit grew 2
percent while operating income increased 16 percent.  Even in the depths of the U.S. financial crisis in 2009,
Coca-Cola and its distributors invested $2.5 billion in
marketing and supply chain improvements, Kent said. They will
invest even more in 2010, he said.  “We’re not going to waste this crisis,” Kent, 57, said in
a telephone interview today. “The brand metrics of Coca-Cola
brands have never been better in North America.”  Last year’s third-quarter profit was $1.9 billion, or 81
cents a share.  On Oct. 7,  PepsiCo , the second-biggest soft-drink company,
reported profit of $1.22 a share, excluding some items, matching
analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Thomson  in New York at 
 ithomson2@bloomberg.net ;
 Duane D. Stanford  in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 Rajello@bloomberg.net  