-- Colombia Peso Falls to 7-Week Low as Santos Seeks to Curb Currency Rally
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-10-19T18:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/colombia-peso-falls-to-7-week-low-as-santos-seeks-to-curb-currency-rally.html
Colombia’s peso fell to a seven-week
low after President  Juan Manuel Santos  said officials will
“soon” announce additional measures to ease the peso’s rally.  The peso dropped for a sixth day, falling 0.3 percent to
1,815.85 per dollar at 2:03 p.m. New York time, from 1,810
yesterday. It earlier touched 1,821.70, its weakest level since
Sept. 1. The peso is up 12.6 percent this year, the second-best
performance after Japan’s yen among all currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Colombian markets were closed yesterday for a
national holiday.  Speculation Colombia will impose capital controls increased
after Brazil yesterday raised taxes on foreign inflows for the
second time this month to stem the real’s appreciation,
according to  Julian Cardenas , chief economist at Bogota-based
brokerage Corredores Asociados SA. Central bank chief  Jose Dario Uribe  said in a presentation today that capital controls
currently aren’t justified as the costs of imposing the measures
outweigh the benefits.  “Capital controls are a legitimate tool and are the cause
of a lot of noise in the market today,” said Cardenas.
“Although we can’t discard that officials may impose capital
controls, they will likely adopt other measures first.”  Government and central bank officials are seeking to ease a
rally in the peso that the country’s business associations said
in a letter this month threatens jobs and “jeopardizes the
Colombian economy’s positive outlook.”  Help Businesses  Banco de la Republica said Sept. 15 it will buy a minimum
of $20 million daily for at least four months. While the central
bank has bought an average of $20 million a day, it may increase
the amount it purchases daily, according to Cardenas.  The central bank may also lower its  overnight lending rate 
which currently stands at a record-low of 3 percent, Cardenas
said.  Colombia will “soon” announce a package of additional
measures and will also seek to help businesses hurt by the
strengthening peso by cutting costs related to energy and import
tariffs, Santos was quoted as saying in an  interview  with La
Republica daily.  Finance Minister  Juan Carlos Echeverry  said last week the
government will keep $1.4 billion in dividend payments from
state oil company Ecopetrol SA overseas in a bid to ease the
peso’s rally. The August dividend was left abroad and the same
will be done with $700 million from the December dividend, he
said.  Colombian officials may announce capital controls as soon
as the next central bank monetary policy meeting slated for Oct.
29, Morgan Stanley analyst  Daniel Volberg  said in a report
yesterday.  “So far policy makers have made an effort to rely on
market-friendly measures, but the peso has continued to rally
raising the real possibility that more onerous measures could be
introduced sooner rather than later,” Volberg wrote.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 11 percent bonds due
2020 fell 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.05
percent, according to Colombia’s stock exchange. The bond’s
price rose 0.091 centavo to 127.115 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  