-- Comcast Campaign Giving Jumps by Half as U.S. Considers NBC Universal Deal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-10-19T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/comcast-campaign-giving-jumps-by-half-as-u-s-considers-nbc-universal-deal.html
Comcast Corp.  increased political
giving by more than half as the biggest U.S. cable company
sought federal approval to buy  General Electric Co .’s NBC
Universal.  From December 2009, when the deal was reached, through
August 2010, Comcast’s contributions to federal candidates and
political parties rose to $1.1 million from $682,450 in the same
period two years earlier,  Federal Election Commission  records
show. The money came from the company-run political action
committee that funnels donations from employees.  The Federal Communications Commission and Justice
Department are weighing the proposed acquisition, which would
give Comcast control of the NBC television network, 11 cable
channels such as MSNBC and USA Network and a movie studio.
Ninety-one of the 99 House members and three of the five
senators who wrote the FCC urging support for the $28 billion
merger received donations from Comcast in the election cycle
that began Jan. 1, 2009, sometimes within days of the letters.  “That’s buying political favors,”  Mark Cooper , research
director of the  Consumer Federation of America  in Washington,
said in an interview. “This full-court press on Congress is out
of the ordinary.”  Comcast’s political action committee became the sixth
biggest-spending contributor for 2010 candidates among
corporations, up from ninth place in 2008, federal records show.
The companies announced the deal on Dec. 3.  ‘Modest Uptick’  Sena Fitzmaurice , a Comcast spokeswoman, said in an
interview that there was a “modest uptick” in contributions,
“primarily due to the increased number of House and Senate
seats that are competitive this cycle.” In the U.S. Senate,
where 37 seats are being contested in the Nov. 2 election, 25
are in states where the company has operations, she said.  Deal critics  Dish Network Corp. ,  DirecTV  and the American
Cable Association, a trade group of cable companies, also have
increased their political giving. Their federal contributions
rose 3 percent, to $382,550, from December 2009 to August 2010
over the same period two years earlier.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is
among companies and advocacy groups that have filed papers
opposing the Comcast-NBC merger as it is currently proposed.
Bloomberg doesn’t have a political action committee, according
to Federal Election Commission records.  The 91 representatives who told the FCC they back the
takeover of the  GE  unit and received contributions represent
more than 20 percent of the House. Letter-writing beneficiaries
include lawmakers near Comcast’s Philadelphia headquarters and
from districts where Comcast holds franchises. Members of the
black and Hispanic congressional caucuses also wrote in support
of the takeover and got contributions.  ‘Extraordinary Number’  “That’s truly an extraordinary number” of recipients
backing the merger, John Dunbar, project director at American
University’s Investigative Reporting Workshop in Washington,
said in an interview. “There’s no doubt in my mind they’ve
increased their giving to help out with the merger.”  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  declined to say at a Sept.
23 news conference when the agency would complete its review.  House members registering support for the Comcast-NBC
combination at the FCC include Democrat  Kathy Dahlkemper  of
Pennsylvania and Republican  Chris Lee  of New York, who are among
24 members who signed a June 21 letter. All received Comcast PAC
donations.  Biggest Donation Source  Dahlkemper received $10,000 from Comcast’s political action
committee, the maximum it is permitted to give every two years,
including $2,000 reported on the day the letter was dated.
Overall, Comcast employees gave Dahlkemper $18,750, both through
the committee and individual contributions, her biggest single
source of donations, according to the  Center for Responsive
Politics , a Washington-based research group. Lee reported $2,000
on June 17 and $9,000 overall from Comcast’s committee.  Dahlkemper’s spokeswoman, Marie Francis, didn’t respond to
requests for comment. Matthew Harakal, a spokesman for Lee, said
the congressman signed the letter the month before it was sent
and “supported an expeditious review because his focus is on
growing western New York’s economy and creating jobs.”  Of 10 members of the  Congressional Black Caucus  who wrote
on July 28, nine received Comcast donations. Comcast gave
$70,000 to the  caucus’s charitable foundation  this year,
according to congressional records.  Eight members of the  Congressional Hispanic Caucus  sent a
letter dated July 22 to back the deal. Seven of them received
PAC donations. The company gave $29,000 this year to the
 caucus’s charitable institute .  ‘Smart-Money Politics’  “It’s smart-money politics,” said Dunbar, who studies the
political influence of media companies.  Muriel Cooper, a spokeswoman for the Black Caucus
Foundation, said donations had no influence on stands taken by
members. Scott Gunderson Rosa, a spokesman for the Hispanic
Caucus Institute, said members “take positions in their own
capacity.”  Endorsements from minority lawmakers can “strike the right
note” and ease the review through the FCC, which seeks to
ensure programming diversity,  Rebecca Arbogast , a Washington-
based analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in an interview.  Comcast has agreed to appoint an Hispanic board member,
increase its minority hiring, and add at least four Hispanic-
owned and four black-owned networks to its cable lineup after
buying NBC.  Menendez, Barbour  Senator  Bob Menendez  of New Jersey, chairman of the
 Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee , wrote the FCC saying
the deal “could be beneficial to the public” on Aug. 18, three
weeks after Comcast gave $2,500 to his leadership political
action committee. Menendez said in an interview that he sent the
letter because “it’s unique to see both companies who have high
performance come together.”  Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour  asked the FCC May 25 to
quickly approve the merger and said Comcast has almost 1,300
employees in his state. Comcast had donated $50,000 in the two
previous months to the  Republican Governors Association ,
 Internal Revenue Service  reports show. Barbour leads the group,
which raises money to help elect governors.  Barbour goes “above and beyond the call” on behalf of
Mississippi jobs and “there is no connection” between the
letter and donations, Dan Turner, the governor’s press
secretary, said in an interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 