-- Commodities to Extend Rally on Federal Reserve's `Game Changer,' UBS Says
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2010-10-19T08:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/commodities-to-extend-rally-on-federal-reserve-s-game-changer-ubs-says.html
Commodities will rally if the U.S.
Federal Reserve eases monetary policy next month, according to
UBS AG, which describes a likely second round of quantitative
easing as a “game changer” for copper, gold and palladium.  The additional measures will increase capital flows to
emerging markets, reinforcing commodity-intensive growth,
analysts  Julien Garran ,  Tom Price  and  Edel Tully  said in a note.
The Swiss bank raised its forecast for palladium next year by 19
percent, for gold by 8 percent and for copper by 7 percent.
Other top picks included iron ore, thermal coal and zinc.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last week
that additional stimulus may be warranted because inflation is
too low and unemployment too high. The comments have prompted a
 decline in the dollar , boosting commodities including gold,
which traded near a record today. The renewed easing may total
more than $1 trillion, according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .  “Recent Fed commentary makes it a virtual certainty that
we will get QE2 at the next meeting on Nov. 3,” yesterday’s
note said, referring to additional quantitative easing in short
form. This “will be a game changer for commodities,” it said,
with easing set to “prolong the bull market in commodities.”  Copper in London rose as much as 0.6 percent to $8,492 a
metric ton today, the highest price since July 2008. The metal,
which peaked at $8,940 in July 2008, has gained about 30 percent
over the past year, boosted by shrinking stockpiles, increased
demand and the weaker dollar. UBS raised its 2011 forecast for
the metal to $3.68 a pound ($8,113 a ton) from $3.45.  Gold’s Record  Palladium for immediate delivery gained to a nine-year high
of $605.13 an ounce on Oct. 14, while spot gold touched an all-
time high of $1,387.35 an ounce the same day. UBS’s palladium
forecast for 2011 was raised to $625, while gold’s was increased
to $1,400, according to the note.  After lowering U.S. interest rates almost to zero and
buying $1.7 trillion of securities, policy makers are discussing
expanding the Fed’s balance sheet by purchasing Treasuries and
strategies for raising inflation expectations, according to the
minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee’s Sept. 21 meeting.  Additional quantitative easing “means that strong,
international capital flows will reinforce already powerful
domestic credit creation in emerging markets,” according to the
UBS note. “That should flow through to robust, commodity-
intensive growth in emerging markets, while the developed world
struggles in the face of higher commodity prices.”  Top equity picks included  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
largest mining company; Rio Tinto Group, the third-largest; PT
Adaro Energy, Indonesia’s second-largest coal producer; and  Teck
Resources Ltd. , Canada’s biggest base-metals miner. All have a
“buy” rating, the UBS note said.  Nickel and aluminum are among the least-preferred
commodities because supply of the metals is “relatively
unconstrained,” the note said.  At the Fed’s meeting next month, central bank purchases of
about $500 billion of Treasuries may be announced, according to
a note from Goldman Sachs sent last week. Given the outlook for
continued economic weakness “the size of the purchase program
will ultimately total at least $1 trillion, possibly
considerably more,” the Goldman note said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chanyaporn Chanjaroen  in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  