-- Commercial Property Prices in U.S. Decline to Eight-Year Low, Moody's Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-10-19T18:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/commercial-property-prices-in-u-s-decline-to-eight-year-low-moody-s-says.html
U.S. commercial property prices
tumbled for a third straight month in August to the lowest level
in eight years, pulled down by declining values for distressed
real estate, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price  Index  fell 3.3
percent from the prior month to surpass the post-crash low in
October 2009, the company said in a statement today. The measure
is 45 percent below its October 2007 peak and is at its lowest
since June 2002.  The data suggest a “trifurcated” market,  Nick Levidy , a
Moody’s managing director in New York, said in the statement.
Prices for distressed buildings, defined as those in default or
foreclosure or whose owner is in bankruptcy, are “falling
sharply,” while values the best assets jump and smaller
properties are flat, he said. More than 25 percent of sales in
August involved distressed real estate, according to Moody’s.  “There’s a small pool of stable large assets in primary
markets that are in demand,” said  Neal Elkin , president of Real
Estate Analytics LLC, the New York firm that owns the data used
for the Moody’s index. “Outside those primary assets, there’s a
pretty dramatic price movement down.”  Rising ‘Trophy’ Prices  Prices for the best buildings in New York, Washington, San
Francisco, Boston, Los Angeles and Chicago -- markets favored by
institutional investors -- are up 23 percent through August from
its 2009 low, according to an analysis by  David Geltner ,
director of research at the MIT Center for Real Estate in
Cambridge, Massachusetts. In the top three markets of New York,
San Francisco and Washington, so-called trophy prices have
gained 37 percent from last year’s bottom, according to Geltner.  Commercial real estate prices will remain “choppy” in the
next few months because of the relatively small number of sales
and concern that the economy may slow, Moody’s said.  Buyers and lenders are seeking only the most secure
investments amid uncertainty about the outcome of next month’s
midterm elections, unemployment near 10 percent and falling U.S.
housing prices, Elkin said.  “There’s very little career risk for lending to somebody
who’s acquiring a trophy asset,” he said in a phone interview.
“But there’s certainly career and institutional risk to making
a riskier loan.”  Moody’s measures overall commercial property values on a
monthly basis and breaks the numbers down by property type once
each quarter. The index measures the changes based on repeat
sales transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  