-- Commercial Bank of Qatar Third-Quarter Profit Jumps 29%; Beats Estimates
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-10-19T11:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/commercial-bank-of-qatar-third-quarter-profit-jumps-29-beats-estimates.html
Commercial Bank of Qatar  reported a
29 percent increase in third-quarter profit, beating analysts’
estimates, as the Persian Gulf country’s second-biggest lender
reduced provisions and increased interest income.  Net income  for the three months ended Sept. 30 jumped to
508 million riyals ($140 million) from 394.5 million riyals a
year earlier, the Doha-based bank said in an e-mailed statement
today. The  median estimate  of six analysts was for a profit of
423 million riyals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Commercial Bank may report a “slight increase” in full-
year earnings, Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Stevens  said in a
phone interview today. “As we are taking advantage of the
recovering global situation, these are being manifested in the
profit and loss numbers,” he said.  Qatari banks, which suffered losses related to the global
economic slowdown, have benefited from a pickup in the economy.
Bank lending rose 19 percent and customer deposits increased 23
percent in August from a year earlier, according to central bank
statistics.  Qatar National Bank SAQ , Qatar’s biggest lender,
posted a 37 percent jump in third-quarter profit.  The International Monetary Fund forecasts Qatar’s gross
domestic product to grow 16 percent this year. The expansion
comes as Qatar, holder of the world’s third-largest gas
reserves, raises its annual capacity to liquefy natural gas to
77 million tons.  Provisions, Interest Income  Commercial Bank reduced impairment provisions to 81 million
riyals in the first nine months of this year from 108 million
riyals a year earlier, the lender said. Net interest income for
the period rose 5 percent 1.25 billion riyals.  “We have seen a further general improvement in asset
valuations in the third quarter although pressure remains on
certain investment categories,” the bank said in the statement.
“That has resulted in an increase of 8 million riyals in
impairment provisions in the third quarter compared to the
second quarter.”  The lender cut net provisions for loans and advances to 57
million riyals for the nine months from 289 million riyals a
year ago. Commercial Bank recovered 75 percent from a corporate
default last year that the lender set aside 170 million riyals
to cover, Stevens said.  “The bank performed better than expected because it
reversed provisioning related to its corporate accounts,” Sofia
El Boury, a banking analyst at Shuaa Capital PSC, said in a
telephone interview. “The bank is having good balance sheet
growth that allows it to generate higher returns.”  Loans and advances increased 10 percent to 34.7 billion
riyals at the end of September, while customer deposits rose 4
percent to 31.9 billion riyals, the bank said. Non-performing
loan ratio rose to 2.96 percent from 2.67 percent at the end of
June “mainly due to additional corporate accounts being
classified as NPLs during the quarter,” the bank said.  Commercial Bank doesn’t plan to sell bonds this quarter or
acquire companies, Stevens said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  