-- Corn, Wheat, Soybeans Advance on Signs Import, Investor Demand May Expand
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2010-10-19T10:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/corn-wheat-soybeans-advance-on-signs-demand-for-u-s-supplies-may-expand.html
Corn futures advanced for the first
time in five sessions and wheat and soybeans gained as recent
declines may have made U.S. supplies more attractive to
importers and investors, amid signs of stronger global demand.  Corn dropped 3.8 percent in the four sessions before today.
A weaker  dollar , down 1.8 percent this month against a basket of
six major currencies, also may boost the appeal of U.S. grains.
Russia’s corn crop could fall 24 percent this year on dry
weather, according to Moscow-based researcher SovEcon.  “The macro environment is supportive for corn with the
U.S. dollar being weak,” said  Kona Haque , an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. in London. “Fundamentally, we remain very
bullish on corn. Clearly there are going to be spillover effects
into soybeans and wheat.”  Corn futures for December delivery rose 1.5 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $5.5875 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at
11:18 a.m. London time. The most-active contract has gained 13
percent this month, partly because the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said on Oct. 8 that domestic production would fall
3.4 percent from a year earlier, more than expected by analysts.  “Since the USDA report, the market cannot be complacent,”
Haque said. “We’re looking at a global deficit and a U.S.
deficit. We need more production to avoid a sharper deficit.”  Russia may import more than 2 million metric tons of corn
in the marketing year that started July 1, mostly from Ukraine,
 Andrei Sizov  Jr., SovEcon managing director, said yesterday.
That’s double the level of imports  forecast  for the country by
the USDA.  ‘Buy Opportunity’  Corn imports by Russia from the U.S. may be “several
hundred thousand tons,” with deliveries unlikely before the
start of 2011, Sizov said. SovEcon forecast higher imports for
Russia after it estimated on Oct. 15 that the nation’s corn crop
will fall 24 percent from the previous year to less than 3
million tons.  “It’s probably seen by some as a buy opportunity,” said
 Michael Pitts , commodity sales director at National Australia
Bank Ltd., referring to the price declines. Russia’s corn
imports are “obviously supportive” for prices, he said.  Ukraine, the world’s fourth-largest corn exporter last
year, set a 2 million-ton limit on shipments of the grain from
yesterday through to the end of the year, according to a
resolution posted on the government’s website.  Ukraine Quotas  Ukraine also set limits of 500,000 tons on wheat exports
and 200,000 tons for barley. The government, which forecast
Ukraine’s grain harvest will decline by 16 percent this year to
38.6 million tons, had debated whether to introduce export
quotas since August as it sought to control domestic food prices
after a drought damaged crops and inflation accelerated to 10.5
percent last month.  Soybeans for January delivery gained 7 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $12.02 a bushel in Chicago. Soybeans for export
inspected at U.S. ports rose 22 percent from a week earlier to
59.4 million bushels in the week to Oct. 14, the USDA said
yesterday.  Egypt, the world’s biggest wheat importer, plans to buy at
least 55,000 tons from the U.S., Canada, Australia, Argentina,
U.K., Germany or France in a tender today for shipment in
December, Nomani Nomani, the vice chairman of the state-run
General Authority for Supply Commodities, said yesterday. Japan
said today it plans to buy 122,861 tons of the grain.  Wheat for December delivery gained 1 cent, or 0.1 percent,
to $6.91 a bushel in Chicago. The price is up 2.5 percent this
month. Milling wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe
in Paris fell 0.7 percent to 212.25 euros ($295.39) a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 