-- Corzine Sees Washington Extending Bush Tax Cuts, Curbing Federal Deficit
-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 2010-10-19T00:07:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/corzine-sees-washington-extending-bush-tax-cuts-curbing-federal-deficit.html
U.S. lawmakers may preserve some of
the Bush tax cuts while taking steps to restrain the federal
budget deficit, possibly by controlling Social Security costs,
said  Jon Corzine , the former governor of New Jersey.  Corzine, 63, now chairman of brokerage firm  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. , said today while he expected Republicans to gain
some seats in Congress he didn’t think they would succeed in
rolling back President  Barack Obama ’s health-care reforms.
Whatever the balance of power, Congress will move toward the
center, he said at a conference in Naples, Florida.  The Dodd-Frank financial-market reforms, tax measures and
deficit-reduction steps will be positive for the markets,
Corzine, a Democrat, said at the Global Financial Leadership
Conference, presented by  CME Group Inc. , the parent of the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange.  “I like the world ahead,” Corzine said.  Corzine, who was chairman of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. from
1994 to 1999 before entering politics and winning a U.S. Senate
seat, said deficit-reduction efforts by the new Congress could
include steps to reduce the costs of the Social Security system,
an accomplishment that has eluded previous administrations. He
also said there could be some reductions in estate taxes.  “It will make a real difference for those of us in the
markets,” he said.  Corzine said he believed the Dodd-Frank financial reform
legislation would help the markets by moving more derivatives
trading to clearinghouses, encouraging more transparency and
giving the government a more positive role through the financial
oversight board.  Those measures were helping restore confidence in the
market mechanisms, the lack of which was a larger problem than
uncertainty about market directions, Corzine said. Uncertainty
is positive, he said, for companies like MF Global, creating
trading and investment opportunities.  “It’s the Age of Aquarius if you like uncertainty,”
Corzine said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Sterngold  in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 