-- Currency-Policy Clashes May Threaten Economic Stability, WTO's Lamy Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2010-10-19T15:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/currency-policy-clashes-may-threaten-economic-stability-wto-s-lamy-says.html
Disagreements about exchange-rate
policies may threaten economic stability and commerce while
putting the recovery from the worst recession in 60 years in
“serious jeopardy,” the World Trade Organization’s chief said.  “I heard recently warnings that this stability could be
put at considerable risk, and in what some perceive as a pursuit
of an exchange-rate-induced comparative advantage,”  Pascal Lamy 
told the WTO’s 153 members in Geneva today. “In other words,
the hard-won path toward stability and trade-led recovery could
be put in serious jeopardy by uncooperative currency behavior.”  Lamy, who in the past has refused to discuss exchange
rates, didn’t name countries or currencies. U.S. lawmakers and
European official have pressed China to raise the value of its
currency, and the House of Representatives last month passed a
measure that would allow American companies to seek import
duties to counter the effect of a weak yuan.  “It is generally accepted that the answer to this issue
does not lie in the WTO and that other institutions, in
particular the IMF, are better placed and have more specific
mandates to address it,” Lamy said. “I thought I would share
this concern with you because I believe history will judge us
harshly if our collective efforts toward exiting the crisis were
to be frustrated by short-sighted individual rent-seeking.”  Finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 20
are scheduled to discuss currencies in South Korea on Oct. 23-24
before the G-20 summit. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who
takes the chairmanship of the G-20 on Nov. 12, said in August
that the group will discuss volatility in currency markets and
called for a greater role for alternative currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer M. Freedman  in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 