-- Bearish CVB Financial Option Trades Surge as Bad Loans Seen Hurting Shares
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-10-19T16:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/cvb-financial-put-trading-surges-on-options-bets-bank-s-shares-will-plunge.html
CVB Financial Corp.  put trading
surged to 161 times the four-week average on speculation that
the Ontario, California-based bank holding company may tumble by
more than a third in the next two months as bad loans mount.  Almost 34,000 puts to sell the stock changed hands, while
no calls to buy the stock traded as of 12 p.m. New York time.
The shares fell 1 cent to $8.05. Almost all of the volume was
 concentrated  in December $5 puts, which rose 33 percent to 20
cents. The shares haven’t closed below that level since 2001.  CVB plunged 22 percent on Aug. 10, the most since 1989,
after saying in a regulatory filing that it received a subpoena
from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which sought
information about the company’s loan business. The bank said
Sept. 9 that its largest borrower can’t make payments.  “Option traders are positioning for a major downside move,
potentially eying the move last August when the company received
an SEC subpoena, and recent comments that bad loans are
rising,” said Joe Kunkle, founder of OptionsHawk.com, a Boston-
based provider of options market data and analytics.  Ninety-nine percent of the December $5 puts changed hands
at the ask price and those options had an open interest of 4,036
existing contracts before today, which indicate that buyers of
new bearish positions initiated almost all of today’s trades.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 