-- Czech Premier Says State, Not CEZ, Will Decide on Temelin Expansion Plan
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2010-10-19T13:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/czech-premier-says-state-not-cez-will-decide-on-temelin-expansion-plan.html
The Czech government, not state-
controlled electricity producer  CEZ AS , will decide about the
timing and winner in a tender to expand the Temelin nuclear
plant, Prime Minister  Petr Necas  said.  The state will make a final decision on the project to add
two new reactors to the south Bohemian plant in 2013, either
announcing a winner or not choosing anyone, Necas said today at
a press conference following the meeting of the Czech National
Security Council in Prague.  “This is an incredibly important tender that carries
considerable security, economic and geo-political risks,” Necas
said. “It is a basic strategic question for the state. And the
responsibility for such a decision cannot lie in the hands of a
private company, even if the majority owner is the state. Only
the Czech government can be responsible for such a strategic
decision.”  Like other former Communist countries in central and
eastern Europe, the Czech Republic is turning to nuclear power
to cut carbon emissions from burning coal and to limit its
dependence on Russian gas and oil. The state has sought to build
two additional reactors at Temelin to ensure the country has
enough resources to meet demand at home and export power abroad.  Westinghouse Electric Co., Areva SA and a Russian-Czech
consortium led by ZAO Atomstroyexport, the three competitors in
the Temelin tender, must provide more detailed technical and
security information by the end of this year and submit their
final bids in 2012, Necas said.  Czech special energy envoy Vaclav Bartuska, appearing with
Necas today, called the decision about Temelin an important
moment for the central European nation.  ‘Destiny’  Bartuska said the nation is at “crossroads.”  “The key moment is when we will have to say ‘no’ to two
superpowers. We are choosing someone with whom we shall join our
destiny for many, many years,” he said.  CEZ, which was supposed to submit detailed technical
documentation to Westinghouse, Areva and Atomstroyexport this
month, will not do so until 2011 because both the Czech power
company and the bidders needed more time to fine-tune their
proposals, Bartuska said.  The main criteria for the Czech Republic are the price,
technology transfer, know-how and the participation of Czech
suppliers in the project, according to Bartuska.  Russia expects the Atomstroyexport group to win the tender,
CTK news agency reported today, citing Russian Deputy Prime
Minister  Alexander Zhukov  who met with Czech Industry and Trade
Minister  Martin Kocourek  today. Zhukov stressed that the Russian
offer includes the largest portion of Czech suppliers.  “I have met with representatives of all three bidders many
times and all are treated as equals,” Bartuska said. “All
three bidders are very motivated to win and we are happy about
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  