-- Italian Stocks; Azimut, Fondiaria, Italcementi, Sogefi Shares Are Active
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-10-19T15:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/danieli-hera-intesa-sogefi-unicredit-may-move-italian-equity-preview.html
Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index 
slid 25.11, or 0.1 percent, to 21,233.48 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in Milan.  The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.  Azimut Holding SpA  (AZM IM), Italy’s largest independent
fund manager, increased for a second day, gaining 1 percent to
7.64 euros. Intermonte Sim SpA kept a positive view on the
Italian asset-management industry, highlighting in a note an
increase in mergers and acquisitions across the industry after
Royal Bank of Canada agreed to buy the U.K. fixed-income money
manager BlueBay Asset Management Plc and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts
& Co. made an offer for Perpetual Ltd.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  (BMPS IM) rose 2.1
percent to 1.07 euros. Citigroup Inc. said in a note that
“Italian banks are ignored and overlooked.” The brokerage is
“overweight” on Italian banks.  Separately, Deutsche Bank AG said in a note that while
“Italian banks do not look over-capitalized under the Basel III
framework, their funding structures appear robust and, more
importantly, their placement power is intact.”  Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd. said that the increase in the
Euribor is “positive for the sentiment on Italian banks, which
have been suffering significantly from the sharp decrease of
short-term rates in the past two years.”  Banco Popolare  (BP IM)
gained 1.5 percent to 4.33 euros.  Fondiaria-Sai SpA  (FSA IM) fell 2 percent to 8.20 euros.
Gruppo Banca Leonardo cut its price estimate on Italy’s second-
biggest insurer to 8.10 euros from 8.40 euros, saying in a note
it expects “Fondiaria and its subsidiary Milano Assicurazioni
SpA to face a tough third quarter.”  Italcementi SpA  (IT IM), Italy’s biggest cement maker, lost
2.2 percent to 6.53 euros, the stock’s steepest decline since
Aug. 24. Egypt’s cement surplus will reach 15 million metric
tons in 2012 as new plants start production and exports to
Europe slow down, EFG-Hermes Holding SAE said.  Saipem SpA  (SPM IM), Europe’s largest oilfield-services
provider, lost 2.1 percent to 31.14 euros. Crude oil tumbled the
most in seven weeks after China raised its benchmark interest
rates, crimping demand in the world’s biggest energy-using
country.  Sogefi SpA  (SO IM) advanced for the first day in four,
rising 1.7 percent to 2.40 euros. The car-parts maker reported
nine-month net income of 13.5 million euros ($18.7 million),
compared with a loss a year earlier.  STMicroelectronics NV  (STM IM), Europe’s biggest chipmaker,
fell 1.5 percent to 5.60 euros, ending two days of gains.
Technology shares declined across Europe after Apple Inc.’s
earnings forecast missed analyst estimates.  Terna SpA  (TRN IM) increased 1.2 percent to 3.18 euros, its
third consecutive gain. Morgan Stanley lifted its price estimate
on Italy’s power grid to 3.25 euros from 3.20 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 