-- Deal-Making in Medical Technology Sector Surpasses 2009 Level
-- B y   D a v i d   O l m o s
-- 2010-10-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/deal-making-increases-for-medical-technology-industry-ernst-young-says.html
The value of mergers and
acquisitions of medical technology companies in the first half
of 2010 surpassed the total for all of 2009, driven by buyers’
taste for bigger deals of established companies, a report found.  Eighty-nine deals with a value of $16.9 billion were struck
in the first half of this year in the U.S. and Europe, compared
with 172 transactions worth $15.7 billion in 2009, according to
an Ernst & Young LLP report released today. The 2010 totals
exclude Swiss drugmaker  Novartis AG’s  proposed $28.3 billion
offer to purchase Nestle SA’s majority stake in Alcon Inc., the
eye-care company, Ernst & Young said.  Deals should remain brisk in 2010’s second half, as shown
by  St. Jude Medical Inc. ’s proposed $1.08 billion acquisition of
 AGA Medical Holdings Inc. , announced yesterday, said John
Babbitt, head of Ernst & Young’s medical technology practice in
the Americas, in a telephone interview. Activity in 2010 may
approach $30 billion, about double the value of 2009 deals,
which was the lowest since 2002, the report said.  “We’ll probably see more deals of $1.5 billion and
below,” said  Les Funtleyder , a health-care portfolio manager at
Miller Tabak & Co. in New York. Mergers and acquisitions will
likely increase in the fourth quarter of this year, as companies
try to get transactions completed by year’s end, he said.  There have been 240 deals in the last five years in the
medical-device sector, with an average deal value of $369.5
million and an average premium of 41.8 percent, according to
Bloomberg data. The biggest deal was  Boston Scientific’s  2005
acquisition of Guidant Corp. for $25.2 billion.  Merck KGaA Deal  Much of the gain in 2010’s deal volume came from one
transaction, Darmstadt, Germany-based Merck KGaA’s $6.8-billion
acquisition in July of Millipore Corp., the supplier of
biotechnology equipment based in Billerica, Massachusetts.  “We’re seeing fewer but larger deals,” said Babbitt, of
the accounting firm, noting that investment has shifted away
from early-stage companies.  “The real interest has been in buying mid-tier medical
technology companies that have attractive valuations,” Babbitt
said. “They are folding them into leaner and more efficient
structures that the larger medical technology companies now
have.”  Besides Merck, some of the bigger deals in 2010 have been
Dublin-based  Covidien Plc ’s $2.5 billion acquisition of heart-
device maker ev3 Inc. in July, and Minneapolis-based  Medtronic
Inc. ’s $350-million acquisition of Invatec, an Italian maker of
heart devices, in April.  “I don’t think we’re going to see a Guidant-size deal,”
Funtleyder said, referring to the rest of this year.  The report defines the medical technology sector as
companies including those that make medical devices, imaging
technology such as magnetic-resonance imaging scanners, non-
imaging diagnostic gear and equipment used in scientific
research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Olmos  in San Francisco at 
 dolmos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  