-- Danish Central Bank May Raise Rates to Defend Krone
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2010-10-28T14:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/denmark-s-central-bank-may-increase-rates-further-to-close-interbank-gap.html
Denmark’s central bank raised the
rate it offers on certificates of deposit by 0.1 percentage
point to defend the krone’s peg to the euro after interbank
rates lagged behind those in the common currency area.  Copenhagen-based Nationalbanken increased the rate to 0.7
percent, raising it for the second time this month, after the
 spread  between Denmark’s overnight interbank deposit rate and
the equivalent euro-area rate turned negative, offering
investors a premium for holding euros versus kroner.  The  Euro Overnight Index Average rate , an interbank lending
rate for the single currency region, stood at 0.849 percent
yesterday, compared with 0.7 percent for  Denmark’s overnight
interbank deposit rate . That compares with a 95 basis point
premium on Danish interbank rates in December last year,
according to data available on Bloomberg.  “The interest rate increase is due to a rise in the short
European market rates compared to the equivalent Danish market
rates,” Nationalbanken said in a statement on its website.  Denmark’s one-month  interbank deposit rate  jumped 14 basis
points to 0.645 percent today.  Nationalbanken, which left the benchmark lending rate
unchanged at 1.05 percent today, is reversing a series of cuts
in the deposit rate earlier this year that tried to track a
slump in the euro. The single currency lost 21 percent against
the dollar from a November peak through a June trough as the
region’s debt crisis prompted investors to drop the euro. The
European Central Bank’s benchmark rate has remained at 1 percent
since May last year.  ‘Surprising’  Short-term money-market rates in the euro area have risen
in the last two months as the ECB unwound some crisis liquidity
measures.  “It’s surprising primarily because it’s a change in their
reaction,” said  John Hydeskov , senior foreign exchange analyst
at Danske Bank A/S, in a telephone interview. “They say it’s
due to the rise in the short European money market rates and not
because there has been an outflow of currency. The Danish
central bank is playing this very safe to prevent the krone
coming under pressure. It has not been under pressure yet, we
are still trading on the strong side of central parity.”  The krone traded at 7.4583 to the euro at 4:09 p.m.,
weakening from 7.44454 on Sept. 3. The bank  officially  defends a
2.25 percent band around 7.46038 kroner per euro, though in
practice it only tolerates moves of about 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gelu Sulugiuc  at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  