-- Dollar Index Appreciates as Geithner Supports Currency Strength
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2010-10-19T11:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/dollar-weakens-versus-euro-on-speculation-fed-to-expand-stimulus-measures.html
The  Dollar Index  rose after Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S. will work to
preserve confidence in a strong currency and won’t pursue a
strategy of devaluation.  South Korea’s won led Asian currencies lower versus the
dollar as central banks took steps to contain foreign-exchange
volatility. The pound weakened before minutes from the Bank of
England’s latest interest-rate meeting, which analysts said may
show policy makers are moving closer to extending asset
purchases to boost the economy.  “Geithner used the ‘strong dollar’ mantra for the first
time in a while,” said  Geoff Kendrick , head of European foreign
exchange strategy at Nomura International Plc in London. “The
dollar is slightly better bid, and it should base around here.
This is a political hot potato.”  The  Dollar Index , used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the dollar against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, advanced 0.6 percent to 77.365.  The U.S. currency strengthened to 81.47 yen at 06:37 a.m.
in New York from 81.27 yesterday. The pound fell 0.6 percent to
$1.5789 and the won slid 1 percent to 1,130.53 per dollar.  The dollar was little changed at $1.3925 per euro after
dropping to $1.4159 on Oct. 15, the weakest since Jan. 26. The
euro was at 113.43 yen from 113.25 yen.  The  Dollar Index  rose after Treasury Secretary Geithner
said the U.S. envisions the dollar will remain the global
reserve currency.  Stimulus Efforts  Geithner will travel to South Korea this week to meet Group
of 20 nations’ finance ministers and central bankers to discuss
currencies, government stimulus efforts and other economic
policies. Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  yesterday
said that nations trying to defend their exports must end the
“currency war,” while the nation raised taxes on foreign
investments in fixed-income securities for the second time in a
month yesterday to curb gains in the real.  The won dropped for a third day after Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said authorities will act whenever “herd behavior”
causes sudden moves in the currency.  Yoon said the government is not keeping the won
“artificially” low to support exports and the G-20 nations’
differing views on foreign-exchange policy are narrowing.  “The minister’s comments look like part of a movement by
emerging-market economies to protect their currencies from a
weaker U.S. dollar,” said  Sung Jae Man , a foreign-exchange
analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc. in Seoul. “Volatility in
the won will decrease if countries reach an agreement at the G-
20 meeting.”  Government Spending  The pound declined before the publication of central bank
meeting minutes and details of reductions in government spending
plans designed to tackle the nation’s budget deficit. Policy
maker  Adam Posen  has advocated further stimulus measures, saying
monetary policy “should continue to be aggressive.” Fellow
Monetary Policy Committee member  Andrew Sentance  has voted to
raise rates.  “There is a lot of investor uncertainty about the MPC
minutes as they will provide us with a good idea about how close
the BOE is to announcing additional asset purchases,” said  Paul Robson , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “We may well get people trimming
some positions, so sterling-dollar has a little downside before
tomorrow’s minutes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 