-- Dollar Weakens on Prospects Fed Officials to Signal Easing; Pound Drops
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-10-20T11:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/dollar-trades-near-2-week-high-as-china-move-stokes-global-growth-concern.html
The dollar fell, snapping three days
of gains versus the euro, on speculation that Federal Reserve
officials will signal further measures are needed as part of the
central bank’s quantitative-easing plan to support growth.  The U.S. currency weakened against 14 of its 16 major
counterparts before the Fed releases today its Beige Book
regional business survey, which may show a slowing recovery in
the world’s largest economy. The pound fell against the euro
after Bank of England meeting minutes showed policy makers split
three ways on whether to maintain its bond-buying plan. European
Central Bank Executive Board member  Juergen Stark  said a too-
loose monetary policy can have negative effects.  “It’s quantitative easing and the dollar debasement that’s
the predominant story,” said  Jeremy Stretch , executive director
of foreign-exchange strategy at CIBC World Markets in London.
“The ECB and Fed are running in different directions.”  The dollar depreciated 0.8 percent to $1.3830 per euro at
7:06 a.m. in New York, from $1.3727 yesterday. The U.S. currency
weakened to 81.23 yen, from 81.58 yen, after reaching 80.88 on
Oct. 15, the lowest level since April 1995. The euro was at
112.35 yen, from 112 yen.  The pound slid 0.6 percent to 87.94 pence per euro. Against
the dollar it was 0.1 percent stronger at $1.5726.  “Everyone is extrapolating that U.S. QE means U.K. QE,
although that might be a little too simplistic,” said Stretch.  ‘Cautious Conclusion’  The Dollar Index has fallen 9.6 percent in the second half
of this year amid speculation the Fed will increase asset
purchases to boost the economy. Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  speaks today and St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard 
speaks tomorrow.  The U.S. economy will disappoint investors by expanding at
a rate of 1.75 percent over the next year, said  Ramin Toloui  at
Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund. The median estimate of analyst forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg is for a 2.7 percent expansion this year
and growth of 2.4 percent in 2011. Last month, the Fed’s Beige
Book found the economic rebound showed signs of slowing.  “The overall alignment of facts point toward a much more
cautious conclusion about the trajectory of the U.S. economy,”
said Toloui, speaking from Pimco’s headquarters in Newport
Beach, California.  The Dollar Index, used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the dollar against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.5 percent to 77.806.  BOE Split  The pound depreciated versus the euro and the yen after
minutes from the last meeting of the U.K. central bank’s
Monetary Policy Committee showed it voted 7-1-1 to keep the
benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent and the bond-purchase
plan at 200 billion pounds ($315 billion).  “Some of the members felt the likelihood that further
monetary stimulus would become necessary in order to meet the
inflation target in the medium term had increased in recent
months,” the minutes said.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will
provide details of government spending cuts today.  The  difference in yield  between U.K. two-year government
notes and equivalent-maturity German securities, an indicator of
interest-rate expectations, widened five basis points to 30
basis points, the most since November.  “After the U.S., the U.K. is clearly the next in line for
QE,”  Bilal Hafeez , global head of foreign-exchange strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG, said in an interview with  Maryam Nemazee  on
Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown.” “It’s bearish for the
pound.”  Reduce Incentive  The ECB’s Stark said in an interview with Germany’s Die
Welt newspaper that the central bank mustn’t buy government
bonds in markets that are functioning and that too loose a
monetary policy can reduce the incentive for governments to
implement fiscal consolidation.  “We must make sure we don’t intervene with our measures in
functioning markets,” Die Welt quoted Stark as saying. “Then,
the bond-purchase program could get out of hand and become a
quasi-fiscal policy. That’s why we must keep examining how
appropriate and necessary it still is.”  The “contrast between the ECB and the Fed will keep the
pressure on the dollar into year-end,” Hafeez said. The dollar
may depreciate to $1.50 per euro in the next three to six
months, he said.  A stronger euro is bringing the currency close to
“overvaluation” and may begin to hurt the region’s economy,
 Ajai Chopra , acting director of the International Monetary
Fund’s European Department, said at a press briefing in Vienna.  Australian Rates  The Australian dollar rose for the first time in four days
as traders used its drop to the lowest level in two weeks to buy
the currency amid speculation the nation’s central bank will
raise interest rates. The so-called Aussie rose 1 percent to
97.79 U.S. cents, from 96.86 cents yesterday, when it touched
96.62 cents, the least since Oct. 5. It advanced to 79.42 yen,
from 79.03 yen.  “The Aussie is vulnerable to these pushes lower, but it’s
likely to be temporary in the absence of any further shocks to
the market,” said  Timothy Connors , head of foreign exchange at
Custom House Global Foreign Exchange in Sydney. “Expectations
are building for a rate rise in Australia in the coming three
months.”  ‘Finely Balanced’  Reserve Bank of Australia policy makers said yesterday that
their decision to leave interest rates unchanged earlier this
month was “finely balanced.” Benchmark rates would likely have
to rise “at some point,” the bank said in minutes to its Oct.
5 policy meeting released yesterday.  An increase by China of its lending and deposit rates and
comments from U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
showing a commitment to a strong dollar may suggest the nations
have reached a currency accord, according to Bank of New York
Mellon Corp.  “The timing of this week’s comments and policy shifts at
least allows the possibility that some agreement has been
reached,”  Simon Derrick , chief foreign-exchange strategist in
London, said today in an e-mailed note. “If some kind of accord
has been reached then this would be hugely significant,
signaling trend reversals in a wide range of markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at   rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 