-- Dollar Rises Most Since August as China's Rate Increase Saps Risk Demand
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-10-19T21:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/dollar-rises-as-china-s-interest-rate-increase-discourages-demand-for-risk.html
The dollar rallied the most in two
months against a basket of currencies including the euro and yen
after China’s unexpected increase in interest rates discouraged
demand for assets related to economic growth.  Australia’s dollar was the biggest loser against the
greenback, falling from within a cent of parity as traders
speculated China’s move will curtail commodity demand. Canada’s
dollar extended its drop after the central bank cut its growth
forecast. Brazil’s real reached its longest streak of declines
against the U.S. dollar in two months after the country raised
taxes on foreign inflows for the second time in a month.  “Anything that China does that could possibly damp demand,
especially for commodities, is going to hurt the commodity
currencies like Aussie and Canada,” said  Carl Forcheski , a
director on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe
Generale SA in New York. “We’ve had a relentless move higher
for many currencies and downward for the dollar, so the dollar
was due for a corrective move.”  The  Dollar Index , used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro, yen, pound and Canadian
dollar, advanced 1.7 percent to 78.236 at 4:55 p.m. in New York,
from 76.934 yesterday.  The gauge of the U.S. currency rose as high as 78.276, the
 strongest level  since Oct. 5. It was the biggest intraday
increase since a 2.2 percent jump on Aug. 11, a day after the
Federal Reserve spurred demand for safety when it said the pace
of recovery is likely to be “more modest” than previously
expected.  Dollar’s Gain  The dollar rallied against all of its most-traded
counterparts, appreciating 1.5 percent to $1.3729 per euro, from
$1.3934 yesterday. The U.S. currency rose 0.4 percent to 81.57
yen, from 81.27, after touching 80.88 on Oct. 15, the lowest
level since April 1995. The  euro  dropped 1.1 percent to 111.98
yen, from 113.25.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 1.6 percent, sliding
from almost a five-month high. Crude-oil futures dropped the
most since February, falling 4.5 percent to less than $80 a
barrel. Gold dropped the most since July as the dollar’s rally
curbed demand for bullion as an alternative investment.  Canada’s loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, weakened 1.5
percent to C$1.0325 per U.S. dollar after touching the October
low of C$1.0374. The central bank kept its 1 percent benchmark
interest rate unchanged after three previous increases and
lowered its forecast for growth next year to 2.3 percent from
2.9 percent. The currency rallied to parity on Oct. 14 for the
first time since April.  Aussie Decline  Australia’s currency declined 2 percent to 96.87 U.S. cents
after rising 0.7 percent to 99.60. It traded stronger than a
one-for-one basis with the U.S. dollar on Oct. 15 for the first
time since exchange controls were removed in 1983.  China raised its benchmark lending and deposit rates for
the first time since 2007 after inflation accelerated to the
fastest pace in 22 months. The one-year deposit rate will
increase to 2.5 percent from 2.25 percent, effective tomorrow,
the People’s Bank of China said on its website today.  “At best, this is a cautious attempt at deflating last
year’s credit-asset bubble,” said  Lena Komileva , an economist
in London at the brokerage firm Tullett Prebon, in a research
note to clients. “At worst, it signals China’s reluctance to
share more of the brunt of the dollar’s devaluation.”  Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes tracking 10
developed-world currencies show the  dollar  has dropped 1.5
percent since Sept. 21, when the Fed said in a statement
following its policy meeting that it’s prepared “to provide
additional accommodation if needed” to support the recovery.  Evans’s View  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said in Evanston,
Illinois, that the central bank will need to buy securities on a
large scale several times to carry out his preferred strategy of
aiming to raise inflation temporarily.  The U.S. economy is operating at close to “stall speed,”
Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said today in New York.
Fisher said he’s concerned that the central bank’s policies may
encourage U.S. companies to invest “cheap money” in operations
overseas, where returns on investment are higher.  South Africa’s rand depreciated 1.3 percent to 6.9678
versus the dollar as the nation’s central bank said monetary
policy is expected to remain “relatively accommodative for some
time” and the rand’s strength helps contain inflation.  While other emerging markets have moved to weaken their
currencies, the governor of South Africa’s central bank,  Gill Marcus , has said the country can’t afford to be more aggressive.  Brazil’s real slid for the fourth consecutive day, the
longest losing streak against the dollar since Aug 24. The
currency fell as much as 1.6 percent to 1.7 per dollar in its
biggest intraday decline since Oct. 6 after the government
increased a tax on foreign inflows yesterday for the second time
this month to protect exports from what Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has called a currency war.  “It looks like a credible threat against currency
strength,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a foreign-exchange strategist
at Barclays Plc in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  