-- Dudley Says Federal Reserve Working With Regulators on Foreclosure Review
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-10-19T21:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/dudley-says-federal-reserve-working-with-regulators-on-foreclosure-review.html
The Federal Reserve is working with
two other U.S. regulators to review foreclosure practices,
governance and documentation at mortgage servicers, said  William Dudley , president of the Fed Bank of New York.  “We want to ensure that the housing finance business is
supported by robust back-office operations -- for processing of
new mortgages as well as foreclosures -- so that buyers of homes
and investors in mortgage securities have full confidence in the
process,” Dudley said in a speech today in New York.  A probe by attorneys general in all 50 states focusing on
faulty foreclosure documents has raised concern that lenders
will be forced to buy back billions of dollars of loans from
investors.  “We are monitoring developments closely in order to
evaluate any potential impact on the housing market, financial
institutions and the overall economy,” Dudley said. He said the
Fed is working with the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Mounting a response on the federal level is complicated by
the fact that responsibility for overseeing housing finance and
foreclosure law is fragmented among U.S., state and local
agencies, with no single regulator shaping policy.  Federal banking regulators have been examining the document
procedures of individual banks to pinpoint problems. The results
of those exams will determine the next step, according to  Kevin Mukri , a spokesman for the OCC.  Largest Servicers  The agency has directed seven of the nation’s largest
servicers to review their foreclosure processes, including
 JPMorgan Chase  & Co.,  Bank of America  Corp.,  Citigroup  Inc.,
HSBC Finance Corp.,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. , and
 Wells Fargo & Co .  The Federal Housing Finance Agency, which oversees  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the largest sources of mortgage funding,
has asked loan servicers to make sure they’re complying with the
law. The Federal Housing Administration, the third-largest
backer of mortgages, has also launched a review of servicers to
make sure they’re reviewing their processes.  The FDIC has started an independent review of banks with
which it shares loan losses and won’t make payments if it finds
foreclosures were conducted unlawfully, the agency said this
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  