-- Duke Says Unconventional Tools Pose Communication `Challenges' for Fed
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-10-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/duke-says-unconventional-tools-pose-communication-challenges-for-fed.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Elizabeth Duke  said new policy tools, such as large-scale asset purchases,
have made it difficult to convey the central bank’s intent.  “Using new tools to manage policy as we have in the last
two years does create particular challenges in communicating our
actions, intentions, and reasoning to the public,” Duke said
today in the text of a speech to the Money Marketeers of New
York University in New York.  Three regional Fed presidents today reinforced speculation
that policy makers will start a second round of unconventional
monetary easing in an effort to address low inflation and an
unemployment rate that is stuck near 10 percent.  Duke didn’t comment on the outlook for the economy or
whether she favors further stimulus from the central bank.  Chicago Fed President Charles Evans and Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart  said the central bank should undertake asset purchases
large enough to aid the economy.  William Dudley , New York Fed
president and vice chairman of the central bank’s policy-setting
Open Market Committee, said his Oct. 1 assertion that officials
will probably need to add stimulus “still stands.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 15 that there
appears to be a “case for further action.” The FOMC said in
its last statement Sept. 21 that inflation was “somewhat
below” levels consistent with the Fed’s legislative mandates
for stable prices and maximum employment in the long run.  Central bankers are debating expanding the Fed’s balance
sheet by buying Treasuries and strategies for raising inflation
expectations, the minutes of that meeting showed.  “A shift in monetary policy or, as importantly, a shift in
the expectations for monetary policy can have a huge impact on
financial markets and the economy,” Duke said. “It is
critically important that we use our official communication to
be as clear as we can possibly be about our assessments of
economic conditions, our policy decisions and intentions, our
targets, and our implementation strategies for nonstandard
monetary policy tools.”  Not all Fed bank presidents are in agreement that the
central bank should embark on further monetary easing. The
Dallas Fed’s  Richard Fisher  and  Narayana Kocherlakota  of
Minneapolis today reiterated their doubts about the efficacy of
further asset purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  