-- Hedge Funds Attracted $19 Billion New Money Last Quarter, Most Since 2007
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2010-10-19T16:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/hedge-funds-attracted-19-billion-new-money-last-quarter-most-since-2007.html
Hedge funds attracted a net $19
billion of new capital in the third quarter, the most since the
end of 2007, as they returned to their peak asset value before
the financial crisis.  Relative value funds  and  macro funds  pulled in the most,
with net deposits of almost $7 billion each, Chicago-based Hedge
Fund Research Inc. said today in an e-mailed statement. Relative
value funds aim to profit from a pricing discrepancy in the
relationship between multiple securities, while macro funds seek
to profit from global themes or trends.  Hedge funds returned an average of 5.2 percent in the
quarter, bringing net asset values to a record high and erasing
the losses during the financial crisis. Including new deposits,
industry assets rose by $120 billion to $1.77 trillion, the
biggest quarterly increase in more than three years.  “The emerging from the drawdown is a milestone,”  Ken Heinz , president of HFR, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
taken three years to fully recover from that.”  The third-quarter gains in the  HFRI Fund Weighted Composite
Index , which tracks more than 2,200 hedge funds, helped hedge
funds emerge from a decline of more than 21 percent in 2008 and
early 2009, the worst drawdown in history, HFR said.  Hedge fund managers can’t charge performance fees, usually
20 percent of profits, as long as their funds are below their
previous high-water mark.  September Rally  Funds were helped by an 8.8 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index last month, the best September performance for
the U.S. equity benchmark in 71 years. Equity hedge funds
advanced 5.9 percent in the third quarter.  Even so, investors still shied away from stocks, pulling a
net $600 million from  equity hedge funds .  Event-driven funds , whose managers try to capitalize on
company events such as mergers, spinoffs and earnings reports,
and relative value funds have gained the most of all strategies
this year, up 6.7 percent and 8.1 percent, respectively. Event-
driven funds attracted $5.7 billion last quarter.  Funds of hedge funds, which invest in other hedge funds,
attracted $250 million in new money, the second quarter in the
last nine in which clients added assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Bit  in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  