-- Hedge Funds Eye Japan, China, Australia for Distressed Assets
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2010-10-19T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/hedge-funds-seeking-distressed-assets-may-turn-to-japan-china-australia.html
  Hedge funds  seeking distressed
assets in Asia may find the best opportunities in Japan, China
and Australia next year as banks sell soured loans, and small
and medium-sized businesses struggle to attract funding.  Japan, China and Australia form the bulk of the $1 trillion
of corporate debt that is distressed or stressed in Asia as
banks balk at lending to smaller companies and sell non-
performing loans, Robert Appleby, chief investment officer at
ADM Capital, said at a conference in  Hong Kong  yesterday.  “You’re finding financial obligations mounting up for
companies across Asia looking for that refinancing, but not
being given access to capital markets or the traditional bank
loan markets,” Hong Kong-based Appleby said. “That bump to me
is going to be a very exciting time for anyone left standing in
the distressed market.”  Asia-focused event-driven funds gained 6.6 percent this
year through September, while those investing in distressed debt
rose 10.5 percent, among the best-performing strategies in the
region, according to Singapore-based research firm Eurekahedge
Pte. Bonds are termed distressed when they yield at least 10
percentage points more than similar-maturity government notes.  Event-driven strategies -- which focus on distressed,
shareholder activist, merger arbitrage and other special
situations -- received most of the assets in the second quarter
as investors allocated more than $360 million in new capital to
Asian hedge funds, Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. said.  ‘Best Opportunities’  Distressed investment opportunities today are different
from those following the 1997-1998 Asian financial crisis, when
assets were centered on dollar bonds that were trading at 20
cents to 30 cents on the dollar and structuring companies that
had gone bankrupt, Appleby said. ADM Capital, founded in 1996,
advises funds that make principal investments in distressed
companies.  “It’s a very different profile today,” he said at the
Hedge Funds Asia Summit yesterday hosted by Bloomberg Link in
Hong Kong. “It’s one of the best opportunities we’ve seen in
distressed in  Asia .”  That’s luring new entrants: Zais Group LLC, a U.S. asset
management firm with $8.6 billion in assets, said this month it
plans to raise money for a fund that will invest in Japanese
property-related securities including debt.  Zais is expecting an increase in sales of property-related
debt as the nation’s banks rush to bolster balance sheets ahead
of regulatory changes demanding a bigger capital buffer. The
fund plans to invest in high-grade debt owned by Japanese banks
trying to avoid refinancing risks as the values of properties
tied to the bonds decline.  Japan Prices  Japan’s nationwide commercial land prices fell 4.6 percent
last year and residential land values dropped 3.4 percent, a
government report showed last month. Commercial prices are 60
percent of what they were in 1991 when they peaked, while
residential values are at 35 percent.  Michel Lowy, Hong Kong-based chief executive officer of SC
Lowy Financial Services, an investment bank focusing on
distressed and illiquid investments in Asia, said consumer
finance firms in Japan also present distressed investment
opportunities. There may be $20 billion of debt in the nation’s
consumer finance industry for sale in the next 12 months, Lowy
said.    Takefuji Corp . last month filed for  bankruptcy protection ,
becoming Japan’s biggest casualty of a four-year crackdown on
coercive lending to consumers.  There will also be “a ton of opportunities” to invest in
real estate and leveraged buyout loans in Australia between 2011
and 2014, said Lowy, who headed Deutsche Bank AG’s Asia-Pacific
distressed products group, which he founded in 1999.  KKR Returns  Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. this week offered as much as
A$1.75 billion ($1.73 billion) for Australian asset manager
Perpetual Ltd., marking a return to the nation after the New
York-based private-equity firm was involved in bids for at least
three companies in 2006.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors to take over
companies, financing the purchases mostly with debt, with the
intention of selling them later for a profit.  In  Australia , lending to businesses shrank 0.6 percent in
August from July, the most in 10 months, taking the annual
decline to 4 percent, central bank figures showed Sept. 30.
That’s even as the nation’s economy outperforms most developed
nations as the biggest mining investment boom buoys growth.  “Today, it’s almost become a macro game,” Thomas Holland,
head of Asia at Cube Capital Ltd., an alternative investment
management firm which manages about $1 billion, said at the
conference in Hong Kong yesterday. “If you’re looking at
Australian companies, will they be getting bank refinancing,
what’s the Fed going to do, what are the government policies?”  Household Lending  Australia’s economic growth may be eroded by local banks’
preference for household lending over business loans, Joseph Healy, National Australia Bank Ltd.’s business banking chief,
said last week.  Credit tightening in  China , where the government is seeking
to avoid asset bubbles, will lead to bridge financing
opportunities, Holland said.  China’s central bank temporarily raised  reserve
requirements  for six lenders, three people with knowledge of the
matter said last week. Boosting the amount of money banks must
hold as reserves will lock up about 200 billion yuan ($30
billion) that otherwise could be used for lending, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. estimated, suggesting the People’s Bank of China is
increasing pressure on the country’s biggest banks to rein in
credit.  Elsewhere, China,  India  and Indonesia offer “special
situation” investment opportunities as banks aren’t lending to
small and medium-capitalized companies, Lowy said.  “The effective opportunity today in distressed is getting
good companies that may have a problem and have run into the
wall of not being able to pay an obligation,” Appleby said.
“They’re technically bankrupt, but they’re still good companies,
and getting them back on the rails is easier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  