-- Lehman Didn't Show JPMorgan CEO Dimon Broke Promise, Court Filing Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-10-19T20:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/lehman-didn-t-show-dimon-broke-promise-to-return-5-billion-jpmorgan-says.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  hasn’t
proved  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Chairman  James Dimon  promised to
return $5 billion in collateral taken from Lehman when it
teetered on the brink of bankruptcy in September 2008, the bank
said in a court filing seeking to dismiss a lawsuit.  The second-biggest U.S. bank asked a bankruptcy judge today
for the second time to toss a lawsuit by bankrupt Lehman, which
is claiming $8.6 billion in collateral and tens of billions in
damages from JPMorgan for allegedly helping cause its collapse.  Lehman said last month that Dimon promised former Lehman
Chairman  Richard Fuld  the money would be returned on Sept. 12,
2008, a day before Lehman’s bankruptcy filing, and didn’t do so.  Lehman hasn’t created “a plausible inference that this
supposed promise was ever actually made,” JPMorgan said in a
filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York.  New York-based JPMorgan was Lehman’s main clearing bank in
the 2008 financial crisis, lending Lehman’s struggling brokerage
more than $100 billion a day to settle trades and repurchase
agreements, according to the filing. The bank says so-called
“safe harbor” laws allow clearing banks to take security from
dealers and derivatives traders without getting sued if the
firms fail.  Lehman said its grounds for suing JPMorgan were spelled out
in a report by court-appointed bankruptcy examiner  Anton Valukas .  “On the brink of LBHI’s bankruptcy, JPMorgan leveraged its
life and death power as the brokerage firm’s primary clearing
bank to force LBHI into a series of one-sided agreements and to
siphon billions of dollars in critically needed assets,” Lehman
said in its initial and amended complaints against JPMorgan
filed in May and September.  Lehman spokeswoman  Kimberly Macleod  said she couldn’t
immediately comment on JPMorgan’s filing.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The adversary proceeding is Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-03266, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  