-- Meiji Yasuda Life to Boost Japan Bond Holdings, Cut Stocks in Second Half
-- B y   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-19T07:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/meiji-yasuda-life-to-boost-japan-bond-holdings-cut-stocks-in-second-half.html
Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co. said
it plans to hold more Japanese bonds and fewer domestic stocks
during the second half of this fiscal year.  Japan’s third-biggest life insurer will increase holdings
of the nation’s debt by 400 billion yen ($4.9 billion) in the
six months ending in March, the Tokyo-based company said in a
statement today outlining its asset allocation. Meiji Yasuda,
which didn’t specify the cut in shares, also said it may raise
investment in foreign bonds by 200 billion yen mostly through
purchases of securities without currency hedges.  “We will reduce such assets as stocks which are hostage to
price fluctuations, while focusing on prolonging the duration of
our bond portfolios,”  Yasuharu Takamatsu , deputy president and
head of investments, said at a press briefing in Tokyo today.  Meiji Yasuda’s plan follows larger rival Dai-ichi Life
Insurance Co.’s announcement last week that it would boost
holdings of Japanese bonds. Meiji Yasuda will raise outstanding
debt assets by 1.5 trillion yen in the 12 months to March.  The insurer forecasted yields on Japan’s 10-year government
bonds will end March at 1 percent, while yields on similar-dated
U.S. Treasuries will be at 2.6 percent. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average will finish the fiscal year at 10,000, Meiji Yasuda said.  Japan’s currency will trade in a range of 78 yen to 90 yen
against the dollar and 105 yen to 125 yen versus the euro in the
second half, the insurer projected. Japan’s currency traded at
81.49 yen per dollar and 113.25 yen per euro today.  No Hedges  “Given the recent rise in dollar-denominated hedging costs,
we will refrain from increasing bond purchases with currency
hedges,” Takamatsu said.  The  difference  between Japanese and U.S. short-term
borrowing costs determines the fee to hedge securities from
currency moves. The spread between the three-month London
interbank offered rate, or Libor, for dollars and yen widened to
nine basis points yesterday from as narrow as minus seven basis
points in September 2009. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Meiji Yasuda plans to increase foreign stock holdings by 50
billion yen in the second half by focusing on Asian assets,
while keeping unchanged its outstanding loans in Japan and
investments in real estate.  Meiji Yasuda had 25 trillion yen worth of assets in its
general account as of the end of September, according to the
company’s investment plan. So-called stable-return assets,
including domestic bonds and loans, accounted for 70 percent of
its portfolio, the plan showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at   kito@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 