-- Tenement Synagogue Ruin Glitters After $20 Million Restoration
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2010-10-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/eldridge-street-synagogue-in-n-y-glitters-after-20-million-restoration.html
Pigeons roosted near the 70-foot
ceiling, the stained-glass windows were broken and the pews were
thickly layered with dust.  “It was a wreck,” said  Roberta Brandes Gratz  of the
Eldridge Street Synagogue when she saw it in 1982. “I walked in
and said, ‘If we don’t save it, we’d have to reinvent it.’”  A journalist at the time, Gratz went on to found the  Museum
at Eldridge Street  and buttonhole donors to restore the 19th-
century Moorish-revival temple on Manhattan’s Lower East Side.  “You can’t tell the history of American Jews without this
building and everything it represents,” Gratz said in an
interview.  Almost three decades and $20 million later, the Eldridge
Street Synagogue is gloriously complete. Light pours in through
the ornate windows, leaving colorful reflections on smooth,
wooden benches and windowsills. The final element of the
restoration -- a round stained-glass window designed by artist
 Kiki Smith  and architect  Deborah Gans  -- was unveiled last week.  The window’s design reflects the celestial motif on the
synagogue’s eastern wall and the temple’s domes. Curved spokes
radiate from the six points of a Star of David at the center of
a blue-green field covered by smaller yellow and gold five-point
stars.  “To me it was a complete no-brainer to continue with the
stars and have the center of the belief system in the middle,”
said Smith. She made a swooping gesture with her hands, which
themselves are tattooed with five- and six-point stars.  German Catholics  Between 1880 and 1924, more than two million East European
Jews moved to New York and 75 percent of them settled on the
Lower East Side. The Eldridge Street Synagogue opened in 1887,
designed by two German Catholic brothers, Peter and Francis
Herter. Members of the original congregation hailed from Russia,
Poland, Lithuania and Ukraine.  “They lived in cramped tenements, worked in sweatshops and
maneuvered through filthy streets,” said Gratz. “This place
was a refuge where they felt worthy.”  Raising money for the restoration wasn’t always easy.  “The most common reaction was, ‘What do you want to save
an old synagogue in Chinatown for?’” Gratz said. “One person
said, ‘I spent my life getting out of the Lower East Side and
you want me to come back?’”  Brooke Astor  Over the years, about 20,000 people from around the country
contributed. Brooke Astor was the first big donor, giving
$75,000 for the restoration of another round stained-glass
window. Others included  Jeffrey R. Gural , chairman of real-
estate advisers Newmark Knight Frank and DreamWorks SKG co-
founder  David Geffen . Later gifts came from newspaper publisher
 Mortimer Zuckerman , art collector  Ronald Lauder  and cosmetics
magnate  Ronald Perelman .  “We had no million-dollar grants,” said Gratz. “It
really did take a village.”  ( Katya Kazakina  is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 