-- Temasek Buys Stake in Odebrecht Unit in Emerging Markets Plan
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2010-10-20T02:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/temasek-holdings-pays-400-million-for-stake-in-brazil-s-odebrecht-unit.html
Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s
state investment company, paid $400 million for a 14.3 percent
stake in the oil services unit of Brazil’s Odebrecht SA as it
increases its focus on emerging markets.  The investment in Rio de Janeiro-based Odebrecht Oil & Gas
comes after Temasek opened offices in Mexico City and Sao Paulo
about two years ago. The company also has investments in
Brazilian real estate and retail companies.  Temasek owns stakes in the world’s two biggest oil-rig
makers, Singapore’s  Keppel Corp.  and SembCorp Marine Ltd. via
 SembCorp Industries Ltd. , and has invested more than $2 billion
on energy and resources assets from the U.S. to India in the
past year.  “The discovery and exploration of large deepwater oil and
gas reserves, including those off the Brazilian coast, will have
important economic significance and will pose relevant growth
opportunities in the medium and long term,”  Matheus Villares ,
Temasek’s managing director in the country, said in a statement.  Odebrecht Oil & Gas will spend $3.5 billion over the next
three years and may sell shares in an initial public offering to
finance future projects, Chief Executive Officer  Miguel Gradin 
said at an event in Rio de Janeiro yesterday.  “For our next projects we will need project financing,”
Gradin said. “It could be a mix of debt and equity.”  Petrobras Rigs  The Brazilian company plans to supply oil companies
including state-controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  with drilling
rigs and platforms as Brazil plans to more than double oil
output in the next decade.  Petroleo Brasileiro, known as  Petrobras , has hired the
first five deep-water rigs, Gradin said. Petrobras will use them
to develop oil fields in the so-called pre-salt region of the
Atlantic Ocean where Brazil found Tupi, the largest discovery in
the Americas since Mexico’s Cantarell in 1976.  Odebrecht “is well positioned to take a leading position
in Brazil,” said Villares at the event.  Odebrecht may expand in Angola and Mexico over the next two
years after it deploys the rigs in Brazil, Gradin said. The
company has operations at an offshore block in Angola, he said.  “Our preferred markets are where we have a presence,”
Gradin said.  Temasek, whose assets climbed 43 percent to S$186 billion
($142 billion) as of March 31 from a year earlier, has
transformed itself from a passive holder of stakes in state-
owned companies such as Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. and
Singapore Airlines Ltd. to an investor with more than two-thirds
of its underlying assets abroad.  The value of Temasek’s investments in resources firms rose
to S$11.2 billion as of March 31, or 6 percent of its total
portfolio, from S$6.5 billion, or 5 percent, according to its
annual report.  The owner of five of Singapore’s 10 largest companies by
 market value  has invested $500 million of convertible preferred
shares of Oklahoma City-based  Chesapeake Energy Corp. , the
third-largest U.S. natural-gas producer. Other investments were
made into companies including Platmin Ltd., SouthGobi Energy
Resources Ltd. and GMR Energy Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Millard  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  