-- EMC Third-Quarter Profit Climbs 58% on Storage Demand
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2010-10-19T20:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/emc-third-quarter-profit-gains-58-on-rising-demand-for-storage-computers.html
EMC Corp. , the world’s biggest maker
of storage computers, said third-quarter profit rose 58 percent
on rising demand for storage and security products.  Net income  advanced to $472.5 million, or 22 cents a share,
EMC said today in a statement. Excluding some costs, profit was
30 cents a share, matching the average of analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 20 percent to $4.21 billion,
beating the $4.14 billion average projection.  EMC, based in Hopkinton, Massachusetts, raised its full-
year profit and sales forecasts. The company is benefiting as
companies use its products to store and secure information on
remote computers, rather than on the desktop, said Piper Jaffray
& Co. analyst  Troy Jensen . That method, known as cloud
computing, lets customers use the Internet to access the data.  “There’s huge initiative to shrink your data centers and
save energy,” said Minneapolis-based Jensen, who  rates  the
shares ‘overweight’ and doesn’t own them. “There’s a lot of
spending in that space right now.”  Jensen said EMC’s earnings may be overshadowed by contracts
reported yesterday by  VMware Inc. , a software maker that’s
majority-owned by EMC. VMware shares fell 6.7 percent after the
company posted bookings that missed analysts’ estimates. VMware,
the biggest maker of so-called virtualization programs that let
computers run multiple operating systems at once, also reported
profit and sales that topped estimates.  EMC  rose  3 cents to $20.83 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock  has  added 19 percent this
year. VMware declined $5.23 to $73.12.  Raising Forecasts  Net income  in the year-earlier quarter was $298.2 million,
or 14 cents a share, and sales were $3.52 billion, EMC said.  EMC said full-year earnings will be $1.25 a share,
excluding some costs, on sales of $16.9 billion. In July, the
company predicted it would exceed an earlier forecast for full-
year profit of $1.18 a share on sales of $16.5 billion. Analysts
on average estimate full-year profit of $1.21 a share and sales
of $16.7 billion.  The global economy continues to recover slowly, Chief
Executive Officer  Joe Tucci  said on a conference call.
Information-technology spending is increasing in emerging
markets, while the U.S. and most of Europe are experiencing
“modest growth,” he said.  EMC also reiterated plans to buy back as much as $1 billion
in shares this year. It has bought back $800 million so far this
year, Chief Financial Officer  David Goulden  said on the call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net ;
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  