-- Emerging Market Stocks Decline in Longest Losing Streak in Seven Weeks
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-10-19T21:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/emerging-market-stocks-decline-in-longest-losing-streak-in-seven-weeks.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
third day and currencies weakened as China raised its benchmark
lending rate for the first time since 2007 and concern deepened
that policy makers will step up capital controls.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  slid 1.3 percent to
1,097.66 at 5 p.m. New York time in the longest losing streak in
seven weeks. Raw-material and technology companies led declines
as commodities sank and  Apple Inc.  forecast profit that missed
analysts’ estimates. The  Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index 
rose 0.2 percent and Brazil’s real weakened 0.5 percent.  China raised its one-year lending rate to 5.56 percent from
5.31 percent, the country’s central bank said on its website.
The World Bank lowered its outlook for growth next year in China
and across east Asia while urging regional officials to ward off
asset bubbles, the lender said in a report. Brazil boosted
efforts to curb gains in the real by raising inflow taxes as
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  called for an end to the global
“currency war.”  China’s increase “may come as a surprise to some,
eliciting a negative knee-jerk reaction,” RBC Capital Markets
strategists led by  Nick Chamie  in Toronto wrote in an e-mailed
note. “Chinese monetary conditions have been one of the primary
drivers for global asset demand.”  China ETF Drops  China last raised benchmark lending rates in December 2007.
Central bank Deputy Governor Zhu Min said on March 25 that rates
are a “heavy-duty weapon” as the government attempts to slow
credit growth, curb real-estate speculation and cool inflation.  The  iShares FTSE/Xinhua China 25 Index Fund , an exchange-
traded fund that holds Chinese stocks, fell 2.4 percent to
$45.24 in New York trading today.  Brazil’s  Bovespa Index  declined 2.6 percent, the biggest
decline since June 29, and the real fell for a fourth day
against the dollar.  Brazil late yesterday raised the so-called IOF tax on
foreign investment in fixed-income securities to 6 percent from
4 percent. It also boosted the levy on money brought into the
country to make margin deposits for transactions in the futures
market to 6 percent from 0.38 percent.  Mantega said other measures to stem the real’s appreciation
could be taken, and existing programs may be expanded if needed.
The higher taxes will only affect new flows of money into the
country, not deposits already in Brazil.  Competitive Devaluations  Policy makers from Brazil to Thailand and South Korea are
trying to curb currency gains to protect export industries as
the global economic recovery slows. The real has strengthened
6.2 percent against the dollar during the past three months,
while the baht has increased 7.2 percent and the won has gained
7 percent.  “The problem today is that nobody wants a strong
currency,”  Puru Saxena , chief executive officer of Puru Saxena
Wealth Management, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in
Hong Kong. “Everyone is engaged in currency devaluations on a
competitive basis.”  The won weakened for a third day against the dollar,
falling 1 percent. Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said
“measures” are being prepared to stem capital inflows and
action will be taken to curb exchange-rate volatility.  Malaysia’s ringgit depreciated 0.3 percent and the
Philippine peso dropped 0.3 percent. Developing east Asia, which
excludes Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore and
India, will expand 7.8 percent next year, slower than an April
estimate of 8 percent, the World Bank said. The region is
forecast to grow 8.9 percent this year.  Apple Earnings  Wintek Corp. , a supplier of touch screens for iPhones and
iPads, slumped 5.2 percent in Taipei trading.  Genius Electronic
Optical Co ., which makes camera lenses for Apple, dropped 3.1
percent. Apple predicted profit of $4.80 a share for the current
quarter, missing the $5.03 average of 36 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Infosys Technologies Ltd. , India’s second-largest software
exporter, dropped 3.1 percent in Mumbai. International Business
Machines Corp., the world’s largest computer-services provider,
said late yesterday that new contracts dropped for a third
straight quarter.  The  Micex Index  of shares in Russia, the world’s largest
energy exporter, lost 0.7 percent. Crude oil futures declined
4.3 percent in New York, while contracts on copper and nickel
retreated more than 1 percent in London trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
 Shiyin Chen  in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  