-- Emerging-Market Stocks Drop, Set for Longest Losing Streak in Seven Weeks
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-10-19T12:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/emerging-market-stocks-set-for-their-longest-fall-in-at-least-seven-weeks.html
Emerging-market stocks fell for a
third day and currencies weakened as China raised its benchmark
lending rate for the first time since 2007 and concern deepened
that policy makers will step up capital controls.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  dropped 0.6 percent to
1,105.62 at 8:27 a.m. in New York, poised for its longest losing
streak in seven weeks. Raw-material and technology companies led
declines as commodities sank and Apple Inc. forecast profit that
missed analysts’ estimates.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar
Index  fell 0.4 percent and Brazil’s real weakened 0.8 percent.  China raised its one-year lending rate to 5.56 percent from
5.31 percent, the country’s central bank said on its website
today. The World Bank lowered its outlook for growth next year
in China and across east Asia while urging regional officials to
ward off asset bubbles, the lender said in a report. Brazil
boosted efforts to curb gains in the real by raising inflow
taxes as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  called for an end to the
global “currency war.”  China’s rate increase “may come as a surprise to some,
eliciting a negative knee-jerk reaction,” RBC Capital Markets
strategists led by  Nick Chamie  in Toronto wrote in an e-mailed
note. “Chinese monetary conditions have been one of the primary
drivers for global asset demand.”  China ETF Drops  China last raised benchmark lending rates in December 2007.
Central bank Deputy Governor Zhu Min said on March 25 that rates
are a “heavy-duty weapon” as the government attempts to slow
credit growth, curb real-estate speculation and cool inflation.  The iShares FTSE/Xinhua China 25 Index Fund, an exchange-
traded  fund  that holds Chinese stocks, fell 0.5 percent to
$46.08 in early New York trading today.  Futures on Brazil’s  Bovespa Index  of shares declined 1.2
percent and the real fell for a fourth day versus the dollar.  Brazil late yesterday raised the so-called IOF tax on
foreign investment in fixed-income securities to 6 percent from
4 percent. It also boosted the levy on money brought into the
country to make margin deposits for transactions in the futures
market to 6 percent from 0.38 percent.  Mantega said other measures to stem the real’s appreciation
could be taken, and existing programs may be expanded if needed.
The higher taxes will only affect new flows of money into the
country, not deposits already in Brazil.  Competitive Devaluations  Policy makers from Brazil to Thailand and South Korea are
trying to curb currency gains to protect export industries as
the global economic recovery slows. The real has strengthened
6.3 percent against the dollar during the past three months,
while the baht has increased 8 percent and the won has gained
7.5 percent.  “The problem today is that nobody wants a strong
currency,”  Puru Saxena , chief executive officer of Puru Saxena
Wealth Management, said in a Bloomberg Television interview in
Hong Kong. “Everyone is engaged in currency devaluations on a
competitive basis.”  The won weakened for a third day against the dollar,
falling 1 percent. Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said
“measures” are being prepared to stem capital inflows and
action will be taken to curb exchange-rate volatility.  Malaysia’s ringgit depreciated 0.4 percent and the
Philippine peso dropped 0.3 percent. Developing east Asia, which
excludes Japan, Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore and
India, will expand 7.8 percent next year, slower than an April
estimate of 8 percent, the World Bank said. The region is
forecast to grow 8.9 percent this year.  Apple Earnings  Wintek Corp., a supplier of touch screens for iPhones and
iPads, slumped 5.2 percent in Taipei trading.  Genius Electronic
Optical Co. , which makes camera lenses for Apple, dropped 3.1
percent. Apple predicted  profit  of $4.80 a share for the current
quarter, missing the $5.03 average of 36 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Infosys Technologies Ltd. , India’s second-largest software
exporter, dropped 3.1 percent in Mumbai.  International Business
Machines Corp. , the world’s largest computer-services provider,
said late yesterday that new contracts dropped for a third
straight quarter.  The Micex Index  of shares in Russia, the world’s largest
energy exporter, lost 0.4 percent. Crude oil futures declined
1.3 percent in New York, while contracts on copper and nickel
retreated more than 1 percent in London trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  