-- Billionaire James Packer's Consolidated Press Buys 17.9% of Ten Network
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-10-20T09:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/ten-network-shares-jump-amid-speculation-billionaire-packer-bought-stake.html
Consolidated Press Holdings Ltd., a
closely held company controlled by billionaire  James Packer ,
acquired a 17.88 percent stake in  Ten Network Holdings Ltd. ,
Australia’s third-ranked television broadcaster.  Consolidated bought 186.8 million shares in Sydney-based
Ten for a total of A$280 million ($274 million), according to
two regulatory filings released today by the Australian stock
exchange after the close of trading.  Ten rose the most in eight months in Sydney trading today
on speculation Packer, chairman of Crown Ltd., Australia’s
biggest casino owner, had bought the stake. The move on Ten by
Packer, 43, marks his return to free-to-air broadcasting more
than three years after relinquishing control of the media empire
his grandfather founded in 1933.  “Ten does have considerable strategic value to a buyer,”
said  Saxon Nicholls , who holds shares of the broadcaster among
the $785 million he helps oversee at Herschel Asset Management
Ltd. in Melbourne. “We think it’s trading very cheaply, it’s
got a low cost base and there is a lot of value in it.”  The shares rose 9.6 percent to A$1.545 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trading on the exchange, the largest gain since Feb. 8.  Ten spokeswoman Gabrielle Crittenden declined to comment on
Consolidated’s filing.  After raising more than A$5 billion ($4.87 billion) selling
control of his family’s TV and magazine units, Australia’s
third-richest man has focused on gambling and pay-TV businesses.  Viewership  Shares of Ten trade at about 16 times  estimated earnings .
That compares with 22 times estimated profit for Packer’s
Consolidated Media Holdings Ltd.  While Ten’s total viewership trails Seven Group Holdings
Ltd.’s Seven and PBL Media’s Nine networks, it’s the most
watched channel by viewers in the 16- to 39-year-old demographic
through programs such as MasterChef Australia, the Simpsons and
Australian drama series Neighbours.  In 2006, Packer agreed to sell a half share in the Nine TV
network and Australia’s largest magazine publisher to buyout
firm CVC Asia Pacific Ltd. to raise A$4.5 billion. A year later,
his  Consolidated Media  sold a further 25 percent for A$515
million before the remaining holding in PBL Media was diluted to
less than 1 percent in 2008 when it didn’t provide more funding
to the business.  Packer owns 49 percent of Consolidated Media, which owns a
quarter of Foxtel, Australia’s largest pay-TV platform. Last
week he paid A$201 million to increase his stake in Crown to 43
percent from 40 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Sydney 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net 
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  