-- Leonard Green Said to Bid for MGM Resorts’ Borgata Casino Stake
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2010-10-19T20:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/leonard-green-is-said-to-bid-for-mgm-resorts-50-stake-in-borgata-casino.html
Leonard Green & Partners LP , a Los
Angeles buyout firm, offered to buy  MGM Resorts International ’s
50 percent stake in Atlantic City’s  Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa ,
people with knowledge of the situation said.  MGM said last week it received an offer that will generate
proceeds of about $250 million, without naming the suitor. The
people declined to be identified because the deliberations
aren’t public.  With Borgata, Leonard Green would gain a stake in the most
profitable Atlantic City resort, at a time when the state is
seeking ways to help operators reverse a market-wide gambling
revenue decline now in its fourth year. Governor  Chris Christie 
in July proposed taking control of policing, land use and
development on the Boardwalk and nearby areas as competition
from neighboring states grows.  Boyd Gaming Corp. , the operator and half-owner of Borgata,
has the right to match Leonard Green’s bid and said in a
 regulatory filing  yesterday that it’s evaluating its options.  Michael Gennaro , a spokesman for Leonard Green, declined to
comment.  Gordon Absher , a spokesman for Las Vegas-based MGM
Resorts, also declined to comment.  The buyout firm, founded in 1989, manages about $9 billion
and has holdings in fitness club operator Equinox, Whole Foods
Market Inc. and Sports Authority, a retailer, according to its
website.  Casino overbuilding and debt taken on before the 2008
financial crisis have created opportunities for private-equity
investors such as Leonard Green, whose  founder  died in 2002.  M Resort  The firm bid unsuccessfully for the M Resort Spa Casino
south of the Las Vegas Strip with the founding Marnell family,
who spent about $1 billion building the property, people with
knowledge of the sale said earlier this month.  Penn National
Gaming Inc.  won the auction, agreeing to pay $230.5 million for
about $860 million in M Resort debt.  MGM , the biggest casino operator on the Las Vegas Strip, is
leaving Atlantic City rather than drop its ties to  Pansy Ho  and
their joint venture in Macau, China, the world’s largest casino
market. MGM pledged to sell its Borgata stake in March after the
New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement found Ho to be an
unsuitable partner.  MGM said the offer for Borgata valued the New Jersey
property’s total equity and debt at $1.35 billion. MGM and Ho
plan to sell shares in their Macau casino venture.  Borgata had the highest gross operating profit of Atlantic
City’s 11 casino resorts in the first half of this year and in
2009, according to the New Jersey Casino Control Commission.  August Refinancing  Boyd and MGM refinanced the resort in August, in part to
pay themselves a dividend. Borgata includes the $400 million
Water Club hotel tower, opened in June 2008.  MGM agreed separately in July to sell the land underneath
Borgata to  Vornado Realty Trust  and Geyser Holdings. The deal is
scheduled to close in the fourth quarter and will deliver MGM
net proceeds of about $71 million.  MGM fell 39 cents to $10.78 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have gained 18 percent
this year. Boyd retreated 20 cents to $7.61 and has lost 9.1
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  