-- Terra-Citigroup, Lockheed, Chinatrust in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-10-19T10:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/terra-citigroup-health-care-lockheed-chinatrust-ashcroft-in-court-news.html
Guy Hands, whose Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd. paid $6.7 billion for  EMI Group Ltd.  at the height
of the buyout boom in 2007, began trial of his claim that he was
tricked into overpaying by a  Citigroup Inc.  banker.  Hands is trying to prove that Citigroup’s David Wormsley
lied to him when he said that Cerberus Capital Management LP
planned to submit a competing bid for EMI, the 113-year-old
music publishing company whose recording stars have included
Enrico Caruso, Frank Sinatra, the Beatles and Radiohead.  Wormsley, Terra Firma’s “trusted adviser,” was “playing
two sides of the street at the same time,” David Boies, the
lead lawyer for Terra Firma, told a jury of nine people in his
opening statement yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  Terra Firma claims $8.3 billion in damages, saying it would
have paid less for EMI had it known that Cerberus wasn’t going
to bid. After the auction, Citicorp covered up its fraud by
perpetuating the fiction of a Cerberus bid long after the
bidding was over, Boies said.  “They knew that they had lied and they made Terra Firma
make this bid on the fictional idea that there were other
bids,” Boies said.  Citigroup, which provided 3 billion pounds ($4.8 billion)
in loans to finance the acquisition, says Wormsley didn’t lie to
Hands and didn’t even know that Cerberus had decided not to bid.
Terra Firma based its bid on its own estimate of EMI’s value,
not on any statements by Wormsley, according to Citigroup.  “There was no fraud, there were no lies,” said Citigroup
lawyer Theodore Wells in his opening statement. “Guy Hands
wanted to buy EMI. He wanted to win.”  Wells said Terra Firma’s suit was the result of a deal that
lost money for everyone involved, including Citibank.  “As time went on, it didn’t turn out to be a great deal,”
Wells said. “It turned out to be a bad deal. People lost a lot
of money.”  Terra Firma Chief Executive Officer Tim Pryce, the first
witness in the trial, testified yesterday that Hands told him,
for the first time in the second half of 2007, that Cerberus
might not have bid in the auction.  Pryce, who was Terra Firma’s general counsel at the time of
the auction, also testified that it would have been damaging to
the firm’s business to have withdrawn its EMI bid.  “There would have been severe reputational consequences
for Terra Firma,” Pryce told jurors. “It would have been very
much more difficult for us to do these types of deals in
future.”  The case is Terra Firma v. Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Health Care Constitutionality Probed by U.S. Judge  A federal judge in Virginia said he will rule by yearend
whether President Barack Obama’s health care overhaul is
constitutional, adding that his decision will be a “brief
stop” in the case on its way to the Supreme Court.  U.S. District Judge Henry E. Hudson in Richmond, Virginia,
heard arguments yesterday over whether the law’s requirement for
individuals to buy health insurance is overreaching by Congress.
Justice Department lawyers have argued that failure to have
health insurance is an active decision with broad economic
effects that can be regulated by the government.  Already, a U.S. judge in Michigan has found the law falls
within the framework of the constitution, while a federal judge
in Florida last week, in allowing a case in Pensacola to
proceed, said it’s not even a “close call” that Congress may
have overstepped its bounds.  “This court is just one brief stop on the way to the
Supreme Court,” Hudson said at the close of arguments
yesterday.  Hudson in August gave approval for Virginia’s suit to move
ahead, rejecting the federal government’s arguments that the
state had no right to sue. Virginia said the requirement to buy
insurance exceeds Congress’s powers regulate interstate
commerce.  The case is Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius, 10-cv-
00188, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Virginia
(Richmond).  Lockheed Workers Rebuffed by U.S. High Court in Age-Bias Case  The  U.S. Supreme Court  refused to reinstate a jury verdict
favoring 17 fired workers who sued a  Lockheed Martin Corp.  unit
for age discrimination.  The justices yesterday left intact a federal appeals court
decision that ordered a new trial in the case, which was making
its third trip to the nation’s highest court.  The workers were among 31 employees, all but one over age
40, who were fired in 1996 from the Lockheed unit that operates
the Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory in upstate New York. They had
won awards that ranged from $69,000 to $1.1 million.  The Supreme Court in 2008 ruled in favor of the workers on
the standards that apply under the U.S. Age Discrimination in
Employment Act. The court said an employer must show it had a
legitimate reason for a challenged practice other than age
discrimination.  Some lower courts had saddled workers with the burden of
proof on that issue, requiring them to show that the employer
lacked any reasonable basis other than age for its actions.  The New York-based 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in
December said Lockheed’s KAPL unit should have a chance to
convince a jury that it had met the standard.  The case is Meacham v. Knolls, 09-1449, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  U.S., Michigan File Antitrust Suit Against Blue Cross  Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan was sued by the U.S.
Justice Department and the Michigan attorney general’s office
for allegedly entering agreements that raised hospital prices.  In its complaint, the Justice Department said Blue Cross
negotiated contracts with 70 of the state’s 131 general acute-
care hospitals that led to higher prices for the insurer’s
competitors. In some cases, the hospitals charged rivals 30
percent to 40 percent more than Blue Cross, the department said
in a press release.  The practice “harms competition and consumers,” Christine
Varney, head of the department’s antitrust division, told
reporters in Washington. “This cannot be allowed in Michigan.”  Calling the suit “without merit,” Blue Cross spokesman
Andrew Hetzel said the hospital contracts help consumers.  “Negotiated hospital discounts are a tool that Blue Cross
uses to protect the affordability of health insurance for
millions of Michiganders,” he said in a statement posted on the
company’s  website .  Zijin Shares Fall After Lawsuit Over Dam Collapse  Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s biggest gold producer, fell
the most in 11 months in Shanghai trading after the company said
it faces legal claims in connection with a fatal dam collapse at
a tin mine.  Two subsidiaries are being sued by the Xinyi city
government for at least 19.5 million yuan ($2.9 million), a
Guangdong court notified, according to a  statement  on Oct. 17
from the gold miner.  Zijin said on Sept. 27 that four people died after a dam at
its mine collapsed and the Guangdong government is
investigating. Tang Tao, a spokesman of the Guangdong
government, said that 28 people were dead or missing after the
accident, and an initial investigation showed “serious quality
problems” with Zijin’s tailing dam.  The accident would lead to a loss of 19 million yuan, Zijin
said on Sept. 27. The tin mine was in trial production, it said.  Separately, Zijin had been fined 9.6 million yuan for the
July acid-waste spill that poisoned almost 2,000 metric tons of
fish, the company said on Oct. 7. The company spilled 2.4
million ton of gallons of acidic waste from its Zijinshan copper
mine in Fujian province, polluting the Ting river.  Chairman Chen Jinghe will have to focus on cleaning up and
expansion plans may be delayed after the accidents, according to
UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. Zijin posted a  profit  of 3.6 billion yuan in
2009 after gold and copper prices rose.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits  Oil Industry Asks Judge Not to Scrap Drill Ban Lawsuit  U.S. regulators haven’t let deep-water drilling resume in
the Gulf of Mexico despite lifting a moratorium last week, so an
industry lawsuit should continue, opponents of the ban said.  Lawyers for  Ensco Offshore Co. , which is suing to block a
federal ban on drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet, told
U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman in New Orleans that
regulators replaced the ban on Oct. 12 with new rules that
continue to prevent rigs from returning to work.  “Defendants cannot show that their October decision memo
completely and irrevocably eradicated the effects” of the
drilling ban, Lawrence R. DeMarcay III, one of Ensco’s lawyers,
said in papers filed today in New Orleans federal court.
“Defendants, in fact, have not allowed any such activities to
resume, and they show no signs of doing so in the near future.”  The Obama Administration first banned deep-water drilling
in May, in reaction to the BP Plc oil spill caused by the
sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig off the Louisiana coast.
Feldman threw out the original moratorium on June 22 as too
broad, after the oil industry and Gulf Coast business and
political leaders sued over claims the ban was improperly
imposed.  U.S. regulators last week asked Feldman to throw out
Ensco’s lawsuit, which targets a second drilling moratorium
regulators implemented in July after their first policy was
overruled. The government argued that Ensco’s lawsuit is
irrelevant now that the second ban has been rescinded.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  For more, click here.  HP Says Hurd Shareholder Suits Should Be Combined  Hewlett-Packard Co. is seeking a court order to have
shareholder lawsuits over former Chief Executive Officer Mark
Hurd’s separation agreement consolidated into a single case in
federal court.  The complaints share a common claim that Hewlett-Packard’s
directors wasted company money by awarding Hurd as much as $53
million in severance when he resigned after an internal
investigation determined he violated business conduct standards
in trying to conceal a personal relationship with a marketing
contractor named Jodie Fisher.  Lawyers for HP, Hurd and other individual defendants named
in the cases and two shareholder groups asked U.S. District
Judge James Ware in San Jose, California, yesterday to group
similar suits into one case before him. A lawyer representing
two other shareholder groups yesterday told Ware his cases are a
“straight shot” based on California law, and should therefore
be litigated separately.  Ware suspended pretrial information gathering in all the
cases until at least Nov. 1, when he scheduled arguments on the
request for consolidation.  The case is Levine v. Andreessen, 10-3608, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Bayer Settles Texas Suits Over Contaminated Rice  A  Bayer AG  unit settled a lawsuit brought by three Texas
growers over claims its genetically engineered seed contaminated
U.S. long-grain rice fields, causing a plunge in exports to
Europe.  The settlement was reached Oct. 15 after three days of
trial in federal court in St. Louis and announced to the judge
over the weekend, said attorney Don Downing, who represents the
Texas rice farmers. The settlement only covers claims by the
growers in trial and doesn’t affect more than 6,000 other
claims, Downing said in an interview yesterday.  “It’s an historic event,” Downing said. “It’s the first
time there has been a settlement in a farmers’ case” against
Bayer involving contaminated rice, he said.  Farmers in five states claim  Bayer  negligently contaminated
the U.S. long-grain rice crop with its genetically modified
LibertyLink seed, leading to export restrictions, bans on two
kinds of high-yield seeds and a plunge in prices.  Bayer , based
in Leverkusen, Germany, denies negligence and disputes the
damages claims, contending that rice sales rebounded after an
initial drop.  The Texas trial was the seventh against Bayer in the
genetically modified rice litigation. Bayer lost the first six,
for a total of about $54 million. The company is challenging the
verdicts in appeals and post-trial motions.  “Bayer CropScience has always been willing to settle such
biotech rice litigation cases on reasonable terms and is pleased
to be able to do so in this instance,” CropScience Chief
Executive Officer Bill Buckner said in an e-mailed statement.
The company said it would continue mediation over the claims by
the remaining plaintiffs.  The federal case is In re Genetically Modified Rice
Litigation, 06-md-1811, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Missouri (St. Louis).  Four New York Men Convicted in Plot to Bomb Bronx Synagogues  Four men who plotted to bomb New York City synagogues and
fire heat-seeking missiles at military planes were convicted by
a federal court jury in Manhattan.  The defendants, James Cromitie, 44, David Williams, Onta
Williams and Laguerre Payen face as long as life in prison when
they are sentenced on the charges, which include conspiracy to
use weapons of mass destruction within the U.S.  The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-00558, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Chinatrust Executive Koo Sentenced to 9 Years  Chinatrust Financial Holding Co.’s  former vice chairman
Jeffrey Koo Jr. was sentenced to nine years in prison for
manipulating shares of a rival during an attempted takeover, a
Taiwan court said.  Koo’s actions drove down the price of  Mega Financial
Holding Co.  shares during Chinatrust’s bid for the company in
2005 and 2006, the Taipei District Court said in a statement
announcing his conviction and sentencing yesterday.  Chinatrust manipulated the share price using structured
notes in its attempt to combine with Mega to create Taiwan’s
second-largest financial group by market value, yesterday’s
verdict said. Koo, whose father is Taiwan’s 26th richest man
according to Forbes magazine, resigned from Chinatrust in
November 2006.  Vanney Cho, a spokesman for Chinatrust Financial, declined
to comment when reached by phone yesterday. Koo, who denied the
charges during the trial according to the Central News Agency,
couldn’t be reached for comment, Cho said.  Mortgage Rescue Firm Owner to Pay $805,000 to N.J.  The owner of several New Jersey loan-modification companies
agreed to pay $805,000 to resolve civil allegations that he
defrauded homeowners trying to avoid foreclosure, the state’s
attorney general said.  Stephen Pasch of Greenbrook Township settled claims that
his  New Day Financial Solutions Inc.  collected upfront fees from
homeowners after promising them help on mortgage modifications,
a practice banned by state law, Attorney General Paul Dow said
yesterday in a statement. Lawyer Ejike Uzor of Newark, New
Jersey, and two of his companies also agreed to pay $25,000 to
resolve the case.  A state Superior Court judge signed a consent judgment for
Uzor on Sept. 29 and for Pasch on Sept. 7, according to
documents released yesterday.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Ashcroft Gets Supreme Court Review in Detainee Suit  The  U.S. Supreme Court  will consider reinforcing the legal
immunity of top government officials, agreeing to decide whether
a man can sue former Attorney General John Ashcroft after being
detained without charge for 16 days.  The justices will review a ruling that allowed a suit filed
by Abdullah al-Kidd, a Muslim U.S. citizen who was arrested in
2003 and held as a material witness in a terrorism probe. Al-
Kidd says the government classified him as a material witness
because it lacked enough evidence to hold him as a suspect.  Obama administration lawyers are representing Ashcroft at
the Supreme Court, arguing that the lower court ruling would
have dire consequences for criminal investigations.  The ruling would “threaten the ability of prosecutors to
discharge their duties without fear of personal liability,
severely limit the usefulness of the material witness statute
and substantially chill officers in the exercise of important
government functions,” acting U.S. Solicitor General Neal
Katyal argued in the appeal.  Al-Kidd’s lawyers said in court papers that his case
“involves a gross abuse of the government’s narrow power”
under material witness law, which lets the government hold
innocent persons to ensure they will be available to testify.  The case is Ashcroft v. Al-Kidd, 10-98.  For more, click here.  Barnes & Noble Names DeFelice VP, General Counsel  Barnes & Noble Inc.  announced the appointment of Gene
DeFelice as vice president, general counsel and corporate
secretary.  DeFelice was previously senior vice president, general
counsel & secretary at  Savvis Inc.,  a provider of technology
services to companies, Barnes & Noble said in a statement.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 