-- Ethanol Use Is Boosting Food Costs by Limiting Corn Supplies, Goldin Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-10-19T21:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/ethanol-use-is-boosting-food-costs-by-limiting-corn-supplies-goldin-says.html
Ethanol is boosting the cost of
food, according to  Ian Goldin , the director of the James Martin
21st Century School at Oxford University and a former vice
president at the World Bank.  “On the food-versus-fuel story, it’s absolutely clear that
ethanol in the U.S. and Europe is driving up food prices,”
Goldin said today at the third annual  Global Financial
Leadership Conference  hosted by CME Group Inc. in Naples,
Florida. “The only question is how much.”  Ethanol futures have jumped 16 percent in the past year,
and corn, the biofuel’s main ingredient in the U.S., rose 41
percent. On Oct. 8, the U.S. Department of Agriculture cut its
 corn-crop estimate  for the second time in as many months. The
Environmental Protection Agency last week agreed to let refiners
add as much as 15 percent ethanol into a new fuel blend, up from
10 percent.  Using food for fuel doesn’t make sense, said  John Hofmeister , the chief executive officer for Citizens for
Affordable Energy and the former president of Shell Oil Co.  “It’s insidious to use food for fuel,” Hofmeister said at
the conference, which was broadcast on the Internet. “Food is a
here-and-now commodity. The idea of using food for fuel is to me
just a non sequitor. It doesn’t make any sense to me.”  ‘Energy Abyss’  The U.S. and Western Europe are headed for “an energy
abyss” because of the lack of investment in a modern energy
system, Hofmeister said. There is “a role” and “a place” for
biomass to be built into fuel-supply systems, he said.  Bunge Ltd. , a crop processor, supports global biofuel
development “to some extent as long as production and
consumption is at a sustainable level, balancing the demand for
both food, feed and fuel,” said  Tim Gallagher , the vice
president of Bunge’s grain and biofuel North American business.
Government incentives are driving up demand for biofuel, he
said.  Bunge has said it aims to be one of the top three companies
in global sugar and ethanol trading and merchandising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in New York at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  