-- Ethylene Profit Gains May End on China Supplies
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-21T05:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/ethylene-profit-gains-to-falter-on-rising-china-production-energy-markets.html
(Corrects fifth paragraph to show that figures were for
eight-month period in story first published on Oct. 20.)  Profits from making ethylene, used
in everything from car parts to Buzz Lightyear toys, may be
capped in Asia next year after Chinese production jumped to the
highest level in eight months.  The net return from producing ethylene by putting  naphtha 
through a cracker is $150 a metric ton, according to  Jinsu Yim ,
a Singapore-based director at Chemical Markets Associates Inc.,
a U.S. research firm. It was $250 a ton in July, after a fire at
Formosa Petrochemical Corp.’s No. 1 cracker in Taiwan reduced
supplies. The profit may drop to $100 by January as new plants
in Asia ramp up utilization rates, Yim said.  China, the world’s second-biggest crude consumer, is buying
less ethylene as it boosts domestic production after a 42
percent jump in oil-refining capacity in five years.
Manufacturers in South Korea and Taiwan count on China to buy 80
percent of their ethylene-based exports, according to  Brynjar Eirik Bustnes , a Hong Kong-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “There’s still supply pressure from new crackers,” said
 Suppata Srisuk , an analyst at Bualuang Securities Pcl, a unit of
Bangkok Bank Pcl, Thailand’s biggest lender. “Most of the
crackers in Korea and Japan will be the first group to shut down
if the ethylene spread gets too low.”  China started three ethylene plants with a capacity of 1
million tons each in the past year, at Tianjin, Zhenhai and
Dushanzi.  Production  was 9.25 million tons in the eight months
through August, an increase of 41 percent over the same period
last year, according to data from China Economic Information Net,
an information network sponsored by the State Information Center,
a government think-tank.  ‘Not Realized’  Annual capacity may rise 56 percent to 23 million tons by
2015, lifting self-sufficiency to 70 percent from 45 percent,
according to the  China Petroleum and Chemical Industry
Association , whose members include China National Petroleum Corp.
and China Petrochemical Corp., the nation’s top two state-owned
refiners.  New crackers in China will have an increased impact on
prices next year because producers are currently running units
below capacity, according to Yim and Srisuk.  “Because of the teething problems, the influx of material
is not so realized this year,” Yim said. The “second half of
2011 will be the bottom for the petrochemical industry,
including cracker margins.”  Ethylene’s premium to naphtha, the so-called  crack spread 
and a gauge of producer profit, was at $337 a ton Oct. 15,
according to ICIS, an industry price provider. It was as high as
$673 a ton on Jan. 15.  Refining Boom  China’s  refining capacity  rose to 6.45 million barrels a
day last year, compared with 4.53 million barrels in 2004,
according to data from the U.S. Department of Energy’s annual
energy review. The Asian country will add 9 million barrels a
day of capability, or about a third of the world’s additional
capacity, in the next five years, according to data from the
International Energy Agency’s June report.  Net ethylene imports  fell 31 percent to 64,144 tons in
August from a year ago, data from China’s Customs Department
showed, as domestic prices declined. The cost of  ethylene 
cargoes for loading at Chinese producers dropped by 21 percent
in six months to 6,639 yuan ($978) a ton as of Aug. 20,
according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  “The bigger issue for Asian petrochemical producers will
be China’s own increasing domestic supply cutting out imports,”
said  Alex Yap , an analyst at Facts Global Energy in Singapore.
Gas-based ethylene producers such as PTT Chemical Pcl and Saudi
Basic Industries Corp. will be more competitive than the
Northeast Asian plants that use naphtha, a typically more
expensive feedstock, Bualuang’s Srisuk said.  South Korean ethylene makers may form ventures with Chinese
manufacturers while producers in Japan merge to form larger but
fewer companies, according to Yap.  “Like the refining sector, there may be a period of
consolidation, lower margins and lower utilization,” Yap said.  Ethylene, propylene and butadiene are produced by heating
naphtha in a steam cracker until the hydrocarbon molecules break
apart to yield these basic petrochemicals.  -- Ann Koh  in Singapore and  Chua Baizhen  in Beijing. With
assistance from  Winnie Zhu  in Shanghai and  Shinhye Kang  in
Seoul. Editors:  Jane Lee ,  Clyde Russell .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  