-- Etisalat Third-Quarter Profit Declines 23% as Operating Expenses Increase
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-10-19T18:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/etisalat-third-quarter-profit-declines-23-as-operating-expenses-increase.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. ,
the United Arab Emirates’ largest phone company,  posted  a 23
percent decline in third-quarter profit after expenses rose and
competition with its rival intensified.  Net income  fell to 1.74 billion dirhams ($473 million), or
22 fils a share, from 2.25 billion dirhams, or 29 fils a share a
year earlier, the company known as Etisalat said in a statement
to the Abu Dhabi bourse today. That compared with the 2.02
billion dirhams median estimate of two analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Operating expenses rose 12 percent to 4.1 billion
dirhams.  “Etisalat is facing much higher competition and that’s
hurting overall performance, subscriber growth is suffering,”
said  Nishit Lakhotia , a Bahrain-based analyst at Securities &
Investment Co. BSC. “If it were not for Etisalat’s
international operations, the earnings would have been much
worse.”  Etisalat, which competes with  Emirates Integrated
Telecommunications Co.  or Du, said it hasn’t reached a final
agreement to buy a 46 percent stake in Kuwait’s biggest phone
company  Mobile Telecommunications Co.  for about $10.5 billion.
The company plans to borrow more than $9 billion to buy the
shares, three bankers familiar with the deal said Oct. 13.  Middle East Reach  The deal would give Etisalat majority control of Mobile
Telecommunications, also known as Zain, and will extend its
reach in the Middle East, where Zain operates in countries from
Kuwait to Iraq. Etisalat offers telecommunications services in
18 countries in the Middle East, Africa and Asia, counting more
than 100 million customers, according to its  website .  Etisalat said the number of mobile subscribers in the
U.A.E. increased to 7.81 million in the third quarter, an
increase of less than one percent from the second quarter.
Etisalat had 1.25 million fixed-line customers and 1.35 million
internet customers at the end of September, according to today’s
statement. The seven emirates of the U.A.E. make up about 86
percent of Etisalat’s sales.  By contrast, rival Du expects earnings to continue to grow
even as competition intensifies, Chief Executive Officer  Osman Sultan  said in an interview Oct. 17. Du may this week announce a
57 percent  increase  in third-quarter earnings to 123 million
dirhams, according to the median estimate of two analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Du Profit Doubled  Du’s profit more than doubled in the second quarter from a
year-earlier as its client base grew. The company will start
offering services through a network-sharing arrangement with
Etisalat in the first half of 2011 after a delay, Sultan said.  Du, which was licensed in 2006 as part of a government plan
to build competition in the telecommunications market, has 37
percent of the mobile market.  Etisalat is in talks over mergers and acquisitions with
India’s  Reliance Communications Ltd.  to expand in the world’s
second-largest wireless market, Chairman  Mohammed Omran  said on
Sept. 29. Purchasing a stake in an Indian cellular operator
would give the Middle East carrier a foothold in a market set to
approach 1 billion users.  The company is considering investing in Idea Cellular Ltd.,
which provides mobile phone services in India,  Jamal Al-Jarwan ,
Etisalat’s chief executive officer for international
investments, said Sept. 6. The Abu Dhabi-based company is also
interested in bidding for a third mobile phone license in Syria,
he said.  The shares gained 2.6 percent to 11.85 dirhams at the 2
p.m. close in Abu Dhabi, giving the company a market value of
about 93.7 billion dirhams. The stock has gained 19 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 