-- European Union Ends Lawsuit Threat Against France Over Roma Deportations
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-10-19T11:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/european-union-ends-lawsuit-threat-against-france-over-roma-deportations.html
The European Union dropped the
threat of a lawsuit against France over the expulsion of
Gypsies, saying the government has moved to comply with EU rules
on the free movement of citizens.  The European Commission said it no longer planned to send
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s administration a warning
letter about the expulsion this year of more than 1,000 Roma, as
Gypsies from Eastern Europe are known, back to Romania and
Bulgaria. Both eastern European countries joined the EU in 2007.  France has taken steps in recent days to enact 2004 EU
legislation on the free movement of citizens,  Matthew Newman , a
spokesman for the commission, the 27-nation bloc’s regulatory
arm, said today. Last month, the commission said it would send
the warning notice -- the first step in a process that can lead
to a complaint at the European court -- in October.  “France has committed to changing its laws so that they
fully comply with European free-movement legislation,” Newman
said in Strasbourg, France. “France is doing exactly what we
have requested, including by guaranteeing that the procedural
rights of EU nationals will be respected.”  France’s treatment of Roma, members of an ethnic minority
who are EU citizens, rose to the top of the European political
agenda in mid-September when Justice Commissioner  Viviane Reding 
linked the policy to events during World War II and government
heads debated the matter two days later at a Sept. 16 summit.
The European Parliament, the Catholic Church and newspapers
including Le Monde, the Financial Times and The New York Times
denounced France’s policy.  EU law prohibits governments from targeting ethnic
minorities. European legislation does allow governments to expel
citizens from other EU countries after three months for reasons
of public order or should the people in question have
insufficient economic resources or pose a burden to the domestic
health-care system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Strasbourg, France, at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  