-- European Union Plans Temporary Ban on Livestock Cloning, Cloned-Food Sales
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2010-10-19T11:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/european-union-plans-temporary-ban-on-livestock-cloning-cloned-food-sales.html
The European Union’s executive arm
plans to propose a temporary ban on livestock cloning in the 27-
nation bloc as well as the use of cloned farm animals and the
sale of food produced from such sources.  The measures will be reviewed after a five-year period, the
European Commission said in a  statement  on its website today.
The commission also called for a system to trace imports of
semen and embryos from clones.  The European Food Safety Authority said in July 2008 it
found no evidence that meat and milk from cloned cows and pigs
differed from other animals. The EU science adviser said there
are “significant” animal-health and welfare issues for
surrogate mothers and clones.  “The temporary suspension constitutes a realistic and
feasible solution to respond to the present welfare concerns,”
 John Dalli , the EU commissioner for health and consumer policy,
said in the statement.  The commission will make a formal proposal to ban  livestock
cloning  next year, spokesman Frederic Vincent said at a press
conference in Brussels today. “We believe that our proposal is
compatible with the WTO rules,” he said, referring to World
Trade Organization regulation.  The proposal is limited to cloning for food use, and
wouldn’t affect use of the reproductive technology for research,
conservation of endangered species or production of
pharmaceuticals, according to the statement.  Imports, trade and use of products from clones are
currently covered by general EU regulations, the commission
said. Denmark is the only EU member to have imposed a national
ban on the use of animal cloning for commercial purposes, the
commission said.  The European Parliament in September 2008 urged a ban on
any future sale in Europe of food from cloned animals. It also
called for a non-binding resolution for a prohibition on EU
imports and farming of cloned animals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 