-- Hedge-Fund Rules Approved by EU Finance Ministers
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-10-19T13:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/european-finance-ministers-agree-on-rules-for-hedge-funds-private-equity.html
Hedge-fund and private-equity
regulations were approved by European Union finance ministers
after they ended a dispute over requirements for fund managers
from outside the EU.  Ministers agreed to give the Paris-based European
Securities and Markets Authority powers over a so-called
passport system for non-EU hedge-fund managers. The passport
would give managers access to investors across the 27-nation EU
with a single registration in return for signing up to
transparency rules.  Hedge funds  and private-equity firms are under the scrutiny
of lawmakers worldwide, who say they are partly to blame for the
financial crisis. Then-U.K. Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  said in
March that the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive
may threaten the country’s pre-eminence in the financial-
services industry. The U.S. has also opposed earlier versions of
the draft law.  “For the first time we can say this sector is under
control,” Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said at a
meeting of finance ministers in  Luxembourg  today. “It’s an open
solution, one where third-country funds can be part of the
market.”  Belgium , which holds the rotating EU presidency, will hold
talks with representatives from the European Parliament and
European Commission to decide on a final version of the law.  Emergency Powers  ESMA’s role in administering the passport system will be
phased in over several years under the proposals agreed to at
today’s meeting of finance ministers. The proposed agency, which
starts work on Jan. 1 as part of an overhaul of EU supervision,
will also have emergency powers to shut down hedge funds that
pose a threat to the financial system.  The deal ends a dispute between the U.K. and  France  over
the treatment of hedge-fund managers from outside  Europe . The
disagreements led to the cancellation last week of scheduled
negotiations with parliament representatives on the final
wording of the rules.  “It is indeed a compromise and we probably could’ve come
up with something better,” French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said.  France had originally proposed that non-EU fund managers be
forced to register with the financial regulator in each EU
nation, a plan criticized by the U.S. and the U.K. for being
discriminatory.  The passport system “meets the test of non-
discrimination” that Group of 20 nations endorsed in June, U.S.
Treasury SecretaryTimothy F. Geithner wrote to Lagarde, U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  earlier this month.  Bonuses, Debt  The measures will also set restrictions on investment
managers’ bonuses and on the use of debt.  “There is still much in the directive that will be
difficult to implement for the industry,” the Alternative
Investment Fund Management Association said in an e-mailed
statement. “But the impact will be far less severe than if
something close to the original proposal had been agreed.”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial-services commissioner,
welcomed today’s agreement, saying it paved the way for
“robust” new rules.  Finance ministers also discussed plans to set up a special
insolvency system for failing banks that could see unsecured
creditors of crisis-hit lenders accept mandatory losses.  Failing Banks  “We don’t want  member states  to be obliged” to step in to
save failing banks, Barnier told journalists at a press
conference in Luxembourg today.  Banks would also contribute to a network of resolution
funds to be tapped if a lender faces insolvency, rather than
resorting to public money. Lenders should pay a levy based on
the size of liabilities on their balance sheet to fund the
system under the plan, scheduled to be published by Barnier
tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  