-- Eurotunnel Says Deutsche Bahn Fast Trains Pose No Safety Issue
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-10-19T17:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/eurotunnel-says-deutsche-bahn-s-siemens-made-trains-pose-no-safety-threat.html
France’s intervention after Eurostar
Group Ltd. ordered German trains for use in the Channel Tunnel
was wholly political and not prompted by any realistic safety
concerns,  Groupe Eurotunnel SA , the link’s operator, said today.  While French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  could frustrate the
bid to introduce  Siemens AG  trains to the tunnel, successful
evacuation tests and pressure from his counterparts in Britain
and Germany should quell the backlash, Eurotunnel Chief
Executive Officer  Jacques Gounon  said in an interview.  “They can block it, yes, but  David Cameron  will want to
see more traffic through the tunnel and  Angela Merkel  will want
fair access for Siemens, so it’s a case of two against one and I
think there will be an agreement,” Gounon said at London’s St.
Pancras station, where Germany’s  Deutsche Bahn AG  was displaying
its own Siemens train in advance of services it aims to begin
in 2013. “It’s purely political. There are no safety concerns.”  Eurostar, controlled by French state rail operator SNCF,
last week ordered 10 Siemens trains worth 600 million pounds
($943 million), prompting Transport Minister  Dominique Bussereau 
to express “stupefaction” that Paris-based  Alstom SA  had missed
out. German Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle  said yesterday
that France should avoid a “protectionist row,” while the U.K.
government backs both the Eurostar and Deutsche Bahn plans.  Safety Amendments  The rail companies need amendments to safety rules to allow
operations through the tunnel using variants of the Siemens
Velaro D train -- which relies on motors under its carriages
rather than locomotives at either end -- as they seek to add
destinations and cut travel times to win traffic from airlines.  Any update of the regulations must be approved by the
Franco-British Intergovernmental Commission on the tunnel,
acting on advice from the Channel Tunnel Safety Authority.  Gounon said last weekend’s tests in the tunnel showed that
the Deutsche Bahn train, composed of two separate units with no
continuous corridor, could be safely evacuated in the event of a
fire. Because it can be easily split the train might even be
safer than the existing Eurostars made by Alstom, he said.  ‘Different World’  “It’s absolutely key to understand that safety can be
improved while new competitors can enter in the tunnel,” Gounon
said in an interview on The Pulse with  Andrea Catherwood  on
Bloomberg Television. “This is a different world. Eurostar has
its own responsibilities to select its own train set.”  Gounon said safety rules shouldn’t be used to help some
train manufacturers overcome “their own commercial weaknesses,”
and that regulations conceived 20 years ago need updating.  While French Trade Minister  Christian Estrosi  yesterday
called on Eurostar to reopen its tender,  Michel Barnier , the
European Union’s financial services commissioner, has responded
to complaints from Alstom by advising that the contract award
involved no breach of procurement rules, the Financial Times
reported today, citing European Commission officials.  Gounon said that Alstom’s bid for the Eurostar order is
only likely to be revived if the French company can show it can
compete with Siemens on price. Even then the manufacturer would
be pitching a version of its AGV train employing a distributed-
drive system similar to that used in the Siemens Velaro series.  The ability to use trains made up of two units is crucial
in allowing new operators to match capacity with demand while
minimizing tunnel access charges, Gounon said today.  German Transport Minister  Peter Ramsauer , speaking today in
London, where he was attending the Deutsche Bahn demonstration,
said he’ll meet with French counterpart tomorrow.  “The problems that have been raised over safety are not
very substantial,” Ramsauer told journalists. “I’m quite sure we
can settle the issue.”  A380 Equivalent  Deutsche Bahn would run one eight-car train from Frankfurt
via Cologne and another from Amsterdam via Rotterdam, with the
units joining together in Lille to form a single train that
would be charged only once for transiting the tunnel, he said.  Eurostar, with 16 years of experience in serving routes
from London to Paris and Brussels, is already a high-volume
operator confident of its ability to fill new 900-seat units
that would be the train equivalent of an Airbus SAS A380
superjumbo plane, the executive said.  Eurotunnel is also keen to encourage the use of Hitachi
Ltd. trains for stopping services through the tunnel, serving
destinations such as Ashford in Kent and Calais.  French utility Veolia Environnement SA’s transport division
could also be interested in running services after talks with
Air France-KLM Group on a cross-channel project lapsed, Gounon
said, while  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Trains and the Dutch
railway are other possible future operators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Jasper  in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  