-- Euro's Gains Will Stall as National Divisions Exposed, JPMorgan Asset Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-10-19T14:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/euro-s-gains-will-stall-as-national-divisions-exposed-jpmorgan-asset-says.html
The euro is unlikely to climb much
further because a stronger currency will reopen divisions
between nations and put political pressure on the European
Central Bank, according to JPMorgan Asset Management.  The region’s economy will suffer as euro appreciation
exposes the gap in competitiveness between nations such as
Germany and Portugal, said  Nigel James Rayment , London-based
manager of JPMorgan’s Euro Managed Currency Plus Fund.  “We’re already in the realms of the euro being over-
valued, and the question is how sustainable that is,” said
Rayment, whose fund is the third-best performer among peers
tracked by Bloomberg. “There are many stresses and structural
issues within Europe itself. We would argue that currency
strength is effective monetary tightening, which would put more
pressure on the ECB, and ultimately the euro will struggle.”  European divisions and a stall by the euro may occur as
soon as this year or the start of 2011, Rayment said in a
telephone interview yesterday. The currency has strengthened as
much as 12 percent against the dollar since reaching a five-week
low on Aug. 24. Investors have focused on weakness in the U.S.
economy, and deemed the euro-region’s woes were not so severe as
to lead to the breakup of the common currency.  The  Dollar Index  lost almost 9 percent in the same period
on expectations the Federal Reserve will restart buying
Treasuries with new money at its next meeting on Nov. 3. The
dollar is likely to remain weak after the Fed steps up such so-
called quantitative easing, Rayment said.  “If they deliver on QE and provide the liquidity the
market is expecting, then the dollar should stay under
pressure,” he said.  The euro fell 0.5 percent to $1.3868 as of 1:41 p.m. in
London. It reached $1.4159 on Oct. 15, the most since Jan. 26.  JPMorgan’s Euro Managed Currency Plus Fund, co-managed by
 Robert Stewart , head of currencies at the asset manager,
returned 12.6 percent this year. The UBS Currency Absolute
Return Strategy handed investors 26.1 percent and the DB
Platinum FX Concepts Global Currency returned 15.5 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  