-- Fed Presidents Reinforce Case for Additional Asset Purchases
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-10-19T19:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/fed-presidents-reinforce-case-for-further-asset-purchases-by-central-bank.html
Three Federal Reserve regional
presidents reinforced the idea that policy makers will start a
second round of unconventional monetary stimulus, with two
saying asset purchases must be big enough to aid the economy.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said the central bank
would need to buy securities on a large scale several times to
carry out his preferred strategy of aiming to raise inflation
temporarily. Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said in a
CNBC interview that a pace of $100 billion of purchases a month
is “in the range of numbers one might consider.”  Separately,  William Dudley , New York Fed president and vice
chairman of the central bank’s policy-setting Open Market
Committee, said his Oct. 1 assertion that officials will
probably need to add  stimulus  “still stands.” While Evans and
Lockhart don’t have FOMC votes this year, all three presidents
have aligned in prior decisions with Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who said Oct. 15 that that there appears to be a
“case for further action.”  “They wouldn’t be talking about it in such a way if they
weren’t on the verge of engaging in another round of asset
purchases,” said  Tom Porcelli , an economist at RBC Capital
Markets Corp. in New York who formerly worked on the New York
Fed’s markets desk.  Two other Fed bank presidents,  Richard Fisher  of Dallas and
 Narayana Kocherlakota  of Minneapolis, continued to express
skepticism about the efficacy of further asset purchases. Fisher
said policy makers are still debating the issue and may not make
a decision next month.  ‘Not Committed’  “We have not committed to quantitative easing,” Fisher,
who doesn’t vote on policy this year, told reporters after a
speech in New York. “The markets may be making certain
assumptions, but a discussion has not yet taken place” and
“may not even be finished on Nov. 3,” the second day of the
FOMC’s next meeting.  Porcelli said he expects the Fed after the meeting will
announce the resumption of asset buying in a “piecemeal
approach” that will eventually accumulate to $1 trillion in
purchases. The Fed bought $1.7 trillion of Treasuries and
mortgage debt through March.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries fell 4 basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.47 percent at 2:57 p.m. in New York. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 1.6 percent to 1,165.41.  Fed officials are debating whether and how they can boost
growth that’s too slow to bring down unemployment persisting
near a 26-year high. The FOMC said in its last statement Sept.
21 that inflation was “somewhat below” levels consistent with
the Fed’s legislative mandates for stable prices and maximum
employment in the long run.  Price-Level Targeting  Evans, 52, a 19-year Fed veteran who became president in
2007, reiterated his support for “price-level targeting,” in
which the Fed would commit to higher inflation for a time to
make up for inflation that was too low.  “Price-level targeting in the current environment would
call for a series of large-scale asset purchases to recover the
shortfall in inflation,” Evans said in a speech today in
Evanston, Illinois.  Evans told reporters after the speech that asset purchases
“would have to be meaningful” in size while declining to say
the amount he would support.  Lockhart, 63, who joined the Atlanta Fed as its chief in
2007, said on CNBC that he’s “leaning in favor” of supporting
asset purchases and that “it has to be a large enough number to
really make a difference.”  “I don’t think it makes sense to do small portions of
quantitative easing,” he said.  $500 Billion  Dudley said in an Oct. 1 speech that $500 billion of
purchases, for example, would add as much stimulus as reducing
the Fed’s benchmark rate 0.5 percentage point to 0.75 percentage
point, depending on how long investors expect the Fed to hold
the assets. The central bank lowered its benchmark rate to near
zero in December 2008 and has pledged to keep it low for an
“extended period.”  The U.S.  unemployment  rate is “unacceptably high” and
inflation is “too low,” Dudley, 57, said to reporters today,
affirming the points of the prior speech. “I feel very
comfortable with what I said on Oct. 1,” he said during a press
briefing on the regional economy at the New York Fed.  Dudley said in prepared remarks to the media that slowing
growth, “weak” job creation and declining inflation add up to
a “wholly unsatisfactory” U.S. economy.  Later today, Fed Governor  Elizabeth Duke  speaks to finance-
industry professionals in New York. Tomorrow the Fed releases
the Beige Book regional business survey, offering an anecdotal
snapshot of the U.S. economy.  Efficacy Doubted  Fisher, in his New York speech, said that “the efficacy of
further accommodation using nonconventional policies is not all
that clear.”  Kocherlakota, speaking today in Fargo, North Dakota,
repeated that with financial markets functioning better now than
in early 2009, “my own guess is that further uses of QE would
have a more muted effect” on narrowing the gap between longer
and shorter-term Treasury yields.  “What will we likely decide at the next FOMC meeting?”
Fisher said in his speech. Referring to baseball playoff games
between the Texas Rangers, based near Dallas, and the New York
Yankees, Fisher said, “as with the American League
championship, you’ll find out when it’s over and only then.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  