-- Fed's Fisher Sees U.S. Economy Expanding Near `Stall Speed'
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2010-10-19T19:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/fed-s-fisher-sees-u-s-growth-near-stall-speed-doubts-easing-will-help.html
The U.S. economy is operating at
close to “stall speed,” said Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher , who cast doubt on the effectiveness of
additional monetary easing.  “The efficacy of further accommodation using
nonconventional policies is not all that clear,” Fisher said in
the text of a speech today in New York. There is “a great deal
of legitimate debate” still to take place, he said in remarks
similar to those he made in Minneapolis on Oct. 7.  Fisher is among the regional Fed presidents who have
expressed reservations about further easing to reduce a jobless
rate lingering near a 26-year high. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking last week in Boston, said that there would
appear “to be a case for further action,” to achieve the
central bank’s mandate for stable prices and full employment.  “There is abundant liquidity in our economy,” as a result
of Fed policies, said Fisher, 61, who will vote on the Federal
Open Market Committee next year under a rotating system for
regional bank chiefs. Yet “we are barely cruising above what we
at the Dallas Fed call ‘stall speed.’”  Fisher said the world’s largest economy probably expanded
at a rate “slightly above” 2 percent in the third quarter and
will accelerate to a “moderate” pace.  Fisher said he’s concerned that the Fed’s policies may
inadvertently be encouraging U.S. companies to invest “cheap
money” in operations overseas, where returns on investment are
higher.  Vexing Question  “The vexing question is: Why isn’t this liquidity being
utilized to hire new workers and reduce unemployment?” Fisher
said. Many of the corporations he surveys “report that the most
effective way to deploy cheap money raised in the current bond
markets or in the form of loans from banks, beyond buying in
stock or expanding dividends, is to invest it abroad where taxes
are lower and governments are more eager to please.”  Fisher’s concerns that another round of large-scale asset
purchases may not have much of an effect are shared by Fed bank
presidents  Thomas Hoenig  of Kansas City, Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser  and  Narayana Kocherlakota  in Minneapolis.  Minutes of the Fed’s most recent meeting show that many
officials thought further steps to help the economy would be
appropriate, so long as growth remains too sluggish to bring
down unemployment or inflation continues to come in too low.  While September retail sales, which climbed 0.6 percent,
“surprised to the upside,” Fisher said, residential investment
was a drag on growth in the third quarter. “Now, the
foreclosure debacle has added a serious wrinkle to the potential
for a clearing of that crucial market,” he said.  Dollar Slumps  The dollar has slumped on speculation the Fed will buy
Treasuries to lower borrowing costs and bolster the recovery.
The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to
track the U.S. currency against six major counterparts, has
fallen 6.4 percent since the end of August.  “I want to be very careful not to read into short-term
movements longer-term trends,” Fisher told reporters after his
speech. “The answer to any currency is that it’s going to be
valued according to perceptions of the strength of the
underlying issuer. The dollar is the key currency in the
world.”  Bernanke’s Oct. 15 speech at a Boston Fed conference fueled
speculation that the Fed will embark on another round of
monetary easing at the FOMC’s Nov. 2-3 meeting.  Fisher, a former money manager, has been Dallas Fed
president since 2005. He is the only current member of the FOMC
to have previously served as a deputy U.S. trade representative
and a candidate for Congress. He was an assistant to the
Treasury secretary during the Carter administration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in New York at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  