-- Fed's Evans Says Central Bank Needs Several Large Purchases for Price Goal
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   J o h n   L i p p e r t
-- 2010-10-19T15:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/fed-s-evans-says-central-bank-needs-several-large-purchases-for-price-goal.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said the central bank would need to buy
securities on a large scale several times to carry out his
preferred strategy of aiming to raise inflation temporarily.  “Price-level targeting in the current environment would
call for a series of large-scale asset purchases to recover the
shortfall in inflation,” Evans said in a speech today in
Evanston, Illinois. The regional central bank chief on Oct. 16
called for plotting a path for the level of consumer prices to
keep inflation from falling.  Evans and his colleagues are considering unorthodox
monetary tools as they struggle with unemployment persisting
near a 26-year high and inflation the Fed says is below levels
consistent with long-term economic growth. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Oct. 15 that there appears to be a case for
further easing of monetary policy to aid growth.  “For many, my proposal will be a hard pill to swallow,”
Evans said at a breakfast for local civic leaders. “Central
bankers generally loathe the idea that even a temporarily higher
inflation rate could be beneficial for, or consistent with,
price stability over the longer term.” He cited the 1980s
victory over high inflation by former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker .  “The current circumstances, however, require that we fight
a different battle -- namely, the extraordinary instance of
liquidity trap conditions not seen since the 1930s,” Evans
said. In a liquidity trap, savings outstrip demand for
investment, while interest rates can’t be lowered below zero, he
said. The Fed cut its  benchmark rate  almost to zero in December
2008.  More Accommodation  Evans echoed remarks from his Oct. 16 speech in which he
said the U.S. needs “much more” monetary accommodation in the
face of high unemployment and inflation that’s too low.  Responding to audience questions today, he said additional
Treasury purchases can lower long-term interest rates. The Fed
can also enhance its pledge to keep interest rates low for an
“extended period” by saying the central bank will commit to
keep borrowing costs there until inflation starts to move back
to a specified price-level path, Evans said.  Evans told reporters after the speech that asset purchases
“would have to be meaningful” in size while declining to say
the amount he would support.  The Fed bought $1.7 trillion of mortgage debt and
Treasuries in a program that ended in March, resulting in a
balance sheet that’s now about $2.3 trillion. The central bank
has purchased an additional $55 billion of Treasuries since
August to keep its asset holdings stable and avoid what
officials say is a “passive” tightening of credit.  Inflation Boost ‘Foolish’  Allan Meltzer , a Fed historian and professor at Carnegie
Mellon University in Pittsburgh, said last week that a strategy
of trying to boost inflation would be “foolish.”  Fed policy makers, including Evans, will present updated
projections for growth, inflation and unemployment at the
Federal Open Market Committee’s next meeting Nov. 2-3; they will
be disclosed in minutes of the session to be released Nov. 24.  Bernanke said last week the central bank could expand asset
purchases or change the language in its statement, while saying
“nonconventional policies have costs and limitations that must
be taken into account in judging whether and how aggressively
they should be used.”  Expand Purchases  Analysts at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and other firms expect
the FOMC to expand asset purchases at its next meeting. Goldman
says the program may start at $500 billion in Treasuries and
eventually surpass $1 trillion.  Evans said he expects second-half U.S. growth of 2 percent
to 2.5 percent and a 2011 expansion of 3 percent to 3.5 percent.
Unemployment, which was 9.6 percent in September, is likely to
be at 8 percent or higher at the end of 2012, Evans said.  While some economists say a skills mismatch between
unemployed workers and employers will make it difficult to lower
joblessness to pre-recession levels, Evans said the lack of
industries needing “hard-to-find skilled workers,” as well as
the “continued presence of disinflationary pressures,” mean
there will still be a “very large amount of resource slack”
with 8 percent unemployment.  ‘Sitting’ on Cash  Companies are “sitting on the cash generated by profits
and the funds raised in capital markets,” Evans said. While
some business contacts attribute their reluctance to spend on
uncertainty over government and regulatory policies, “most
admit they would increase spending if demand were stronger,” he
said.  The U.S. economy probably expanded at a 1.9 percent annual
pace in the third quarter and will have 2.1 percent growth in
the fourth quarter, based on the median estimates of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News this month. The economy will grow 2.4
percent next year, according to the survey.  Evans, 52, has led the Chicago Fed since September 2007 and
doesn’t vote on the rate-setting FOMC this year. He votes every
other year on the FOMC, as does Cleveland Fed President  Sandra Pianalto ; the New York Fed president votes at every meeting,
while the other nine regional chiefs vote every three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 John Lippert  in Chicago at at 
 jlippert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  