-- Fed's Dudley Says U.S. Economy's Status `Wholly Unsatisfactory'
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-10-19T15:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/fed-s-dudley-describes-u-s-economic-conditions-as-wholly-unsatisfactory-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of New York
President  William Dudley  said his Oct. 1 assertion that the Fed
will probably need to take action to bring down joblessness and
address a too-low inflation rate “still stands.”  The U.S. unemployment rate is “unacceptably high” and
inflation is “too low,” Dudley said to reporters today,
affirming the points of a prior speech. “I feel very
comfortable with what I said on Oct. 1,” he said during a press
briefing on the regional economy at the New York Fed.  Central bankers are considering measures to stimulate
growth in the U.S., and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last
week that a second round of unconventional monetary easing may
be warranted because of low inflation and an unemployment rate
that is holding near 10 percent.  “The current situation is wholly unsatisfactory,” Dudley
said in a speech at the New York Fed. He didn’t discuss details
of potential Fed actions such as additional large-scale Fed
purchases of Treasuries. “Confidence in the economy remains
quite low,” he said.  “Given the outlook that the upturn appears likely to
strengthen only gradually, it will likely be several years
before employment and inflation return to levels consistent with
the Federal Reserve’s dual mandate” for stable prices and
maximum employment, he said.  Policy makers can support the economy through “critical
reforms that make the financial system safer and accommodative
monetary policy” that lowers mortgage costs and makes it more
attractive for businesses to invest and create jobs, said
Dudley, 57, who serves as vice chairman of the Federal Open
Market Committee.  Close to Zero  After lowering interest rates almost to zero and buying
$1.7 trillion of securities, the Fed is debating expanding its
balance sheet by purchasing Treasuries and strategies for
raising inflation expectations, according to the minutes of the
FOMC’s Sept. 21 meeting.  While the National Bureau of Economic Research said last
month that the worst U.S. recession since the Great Depression
ended in June 2009, economic growth slowed to an annualized 1.7
percent rate in the second quarter from 3.7 percent in the first
three months of the year. The growth figures are adjusted for
changes in prices; nominal gross domestic product doesn’t adjust
for inflation.  Stocks slid, dragging the MSCI World Index down from a six-
month high, as China raised interest rates and Apple Inc.’s
profit forecast missed analyst estimates. The MSCI gauge of
equities in developed nations sank 1.4 percent, the most in
almost two months, as of 9:37 a.m. in New York. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index slid 1.2 percent to 1,170.19.  Foreclosure Review  The Fed is working with the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. to review
the foreclosure practices, governance and documentation at
mortgage servicers, Dudley said.  “We want to ensure that the housing finance business is
supported by robust back-office operations -- for processing of
new mortgages as well as foreclosures -- so that buyers of homes
and investors in mortgage securities have full confidence in the
process,” Dudley said.  A probe by attorneys general in all 50 states focusing on
faulty foreclosure documents has raised concern that lenders
will be forced to buy back billions of dollars of loans from
investors.  “We are monitoring developments closely in order to
evaluate any potential impact on the housing market, financial
institutions and the overall economy,” he said.  The economies of New York state and New York City are
recovering, Dudley said, while “New Jersey’s economy remains
essentially flat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  