-- Fish Oil Fails to Halt Depression in Moms or Aid Infant Brains, Study Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2010-10-19T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/fish-oil-fails-to-halt-depression-in-moms-or-aid-infant-brains-study-says.html
Fish oil  supplements failed to ward
off depression in pregnant women after delivery or bolster their
infants’ cognitive and language development, an Australian study
found.  About 9.7 percent of women taking the supplements in the
study reported high levels of depression symptoms in the six
months after delivery, said Maria Makrides, the lead author of
the research, published today in the  Journal of the American
Medical Association . That compared with 11.2 percent for women
taking vegetable oil capsules, meaning the difference was
“nonsignificant,” according to the research.  The study is the largest to look at what happens in
pregnant women who take fish oil supplements rich in dietary
docosahexaenoic acid, or DHA,  Makrides  said in an e-mail on Oct.
17. Healthy women with normal pregnancies may not need DHA
supplements, she said, citing the study data.  “We obviously undertook the trial expecting to find a
positive result,” said Makrides, deputy director of the  Women’s
& Children’s Health Research Institute  and professor of human
nutrition at the University of Adelaide in Australia. “The fact
that we essentially found no effect was a surprise.”  Further work is needed to determine the potential benefits
of DHA supplementation for women with a history of depression
and for women at risk of having a premature baby, she said.  Possible Benefits  Emily Oken , an associate professor of population medicine
at Harvard Medical School and Harvard Pilgrim Health Care in
Boston, who wrote an accompanying editorial in the journal, said
 pregnant women  shouldn’t give up eating low-mercury fish or
taking recommended doses of fish oil, as the mineral does help
prevent preterm labor and may have benefits not shown in the
study.  “It’s a little disappointing that the evidence isn’t
convincing,” Oken said in a telephone interview on Oct. 15.
“It’s a little early to say that there’s no benefit.”  Scientists are unsure exactly how DHA works, Oken said. DHA
is a building block in the brain and eyes and may influence how
they develop, she said.  Researchers in the trial studied 2,399 women at five
Australian hospitals who were recruited from October 2005 to
January 2008. The mothers-to-be received 800 milligrams a day of
DHA in fish oil or were given vegetable oil capsules, which act
like a placebo, from the time they entered the study until the
birth of their children.  The researchers followed 726 of the children through
December 2009 and assessed them at 18 months for abilities
including memory, problem solving and vocabulary.  Depression Symptoms  They found that the percentage difference between groups in
terms of  postpartum  depression six months after delivery was
nonsignificant. The study showed a reduction in depression
symptoms in a subgroup of women who took DHA and had a previous
history of depression, Makrides said. More studies are needed to
confirm that finding, she said.  While fewer women taking DHA went into early labor compared
with the vegetable oil group, the DHA group had a higher risk of
going past the due date for births and requiring either
inductions or caesarian sections, Makrides said. Treating 100
women with DHA would prevent one preterm birth of less than 34
weeks and create two post-term inductions or caesarean sections,
she said.  “Clearly these tradeoffs are important to consider and it
may be that DHA supplementation may be most useful to women at
risk of having a preterm baby,” Makrides said.  Researchers also are planning a follow-up report on the
children when they reach 4 years old, she said.  200 Milligrams  Current recommendations  say pregnant women should consume
200 milligrams a day of DHA through fish or dietary supplements,
said  Elizabeth Poynor , a gynecologist at Lenox Hill Hospital in
New York, who wasn’t involved in the study.  The lack of benefit in today’s findings may be because the
women took a supplement rather than obtained the nutrient from
natural sources, she said.  “We can’t assume that what comes in supplement form has
the same activity as what we have in dietary form,” Poynor said
in a telephone interview on Oct. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  