-- Flooring, Wallpaper Emit Toxic Chemicals, Group Says in Urging Regulations
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2010-10-19T04:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/flooring-wallpaper-emit-toxic-chemicals-group-says-in-urging-regulations.html
U.S. homes may contain flooring and
wallpaper that emit the types of toxic chemicals the Consumer
Product Safety Commission has banned from toys, an environmental
group said in urging expanded regulation of the substances.  The building materials may expose kids to chemicals such as
phthalates that were banned in children’s products in a 2008
overhaul of the CPSC, said  Jeff Gearhart , research director at
the  Ecology Center  in Ann Arbor, Michigan, which today released
a study showing emissions from 3,000 products. Lead and cadmium
also were found in some products, he said.  “Toys aren’t the only source of exposure,” Gearhart said
in an interview. “We really need a broader federal policy
reform. We should be looking at chemicals in everything, not
product by product.”  U.S. lawmakers, acting over opposition from  Exxon-Mobil
Corp.  and the American Chemistry Council, two years ago agreed
to expand a ban to three phthalates, used to soften products
such as water bottles and children’s toys. The chemistry council
testified in 2008 that risk assessments, including a 2001 CPSC
report, found no danger risk to children from the materials.
Congress passed legislation after regulators in Canada and
Europe acted to impose a ban.  The Ecology Center, saying it was prompted by a lack of
federal standards for products used in house improvements,
tested more than 1,000 types of flooring items and almost 2,300
types of wallpaper. The project followed an earlier study of
toys, car interiors and women’s handbags.  Products containing phthalates can release toxic gas over
time because the plasticizers aren’t chemically bonded to the
underlying material, Gearhart said. Children also breathe in the
chemicals through dust.  Asthma, Cancer Links  Phthalates and heavy metals are linked to asthma, birth
defects, learning disabilities, liver toxicity and cancer, the
group said. Kids are twice as likely to have asthma if they’re
living in such homes with vinyl materials, Gearhart said.  Vinyl building materials were more than seven times as
likely to contain hazardous additives, the study found. Vinyl
sheet flooring and tiles raised a particular concern. Many
natural alternatives, such as linoleum, hardwood, cork and
bamboo tested clean, Gearhart said.  “This is a manageable problem,” Gearhart said. “We want
them to invest more in alternatives. We know the manufacturers
know how to make and market these products profitably.”  The Ecology Center backs an effort by Representative  Bobby Rush , an Illinois Democrat, and Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a New
Jersey Democrat, to overhaul the Toxic Control Substances Act.
Rush’s bill was discussed at a House Energy and Commerce
Committee hearing in July. The Senate version hasn’t had a
hearing.  The bills are H.R. 5820 and S. 3209.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  