-- Foreclosure Fortune Buys Bugatti, Yacht, Mansions for Attorney
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-10-19T14:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/florida-attorney-buys-bugatti-yacht-mansion-with-his-foreclosure-fortune.html
For Americans, the foreclosure
crisis has wiped out fortunes, bringing destitution and
homelessness. For Florida attorney  David J. Stern , it has
brought mansions, a Bugatti sports car and a luxury yacht.  Florida has the third-highest residential foreclosure rate
in the U.S., and Stern, 50, has made a fortune off the bust. His
foreclosure-processing business has generated hundreds of
millions of dollars in revenue preparing documents for the cases
that his law firm brings on behalf of lenders seeking to reclaim
homes from borrowers who can’t pay their mortgages.  Now his business is under scrutiny, as banks suspend
foreclosures and evictions amid allegations that some home
seizures were based on fraudulent documents. Attorneys general
in every U.S. state have joined to probe foreclosure practices
generally. Stern’s foreclosure firm and three others are under
investigation by Florida Attorney General  Bill McCollum .  “Some of these law firms we’re dealing with, we have
reason to believe, actually forged documents, committed fraud,
did all kinds of things,” McCollum said in an interview Oct.
15. “We don’t know where this is headed right now.”  Stern’s attorney, Jeffrey Tew, said Stern has used
technology and a well-organized operation to efficiently process
foreclosures. Stern gets a flat fee of about $1,400 a
foreclosure, according to Tew, of  Tew Cardenas LLP  in Miami.  ‘His Acumen’  “David’s wealth is a reflection of his acumen and the
tremendous volume of foreclosures,” Tew said in an interview
yesterday. “He had something to do with the acumen part. He had
nothing to do with the amount of foreclosures we have.”  Stern’s firm handles thousands of cases a month. It
conducted a review of its files and found 21 had “issues with
the affidavits,” Stern said in a Sept. 8 conference call to
discuss second-quarter results for  DJSP Enterprises Inc.  DJSP
provides non-legal foreclosure services, such as title searches,
for his law firm, Law Offices of David J. Stern PA. Both
businesses share the same Plantation, Florida, address.  Stern sold those operations this year in a transaction that
formed DJSP, a publicly traded company incorporated in the
British Virgin Islands. Stern, the chairman and chief executive
officer of  DJSP , declined through his attorney to be interviewed
for this story.  Stern grew up in Liberty City section of Miami and worked
his way through school, Tew said. He received his law degree
from South Texas College of Law in 1986 and founded his firm in
1994. Before that, he worked for a law firm that specialized in
representing mortgage lenders, according to a regulatory filing
by the company that became DJSP.  Island Mansion  Stern owns a $15 million mansion on an island in Fort
Lauderdale, a $6 million beachfront condominium in the city, and
a $6 million home in nearby Hillsboro Beach, according to
property records. The mansion includes an adjoining property he
bought in 2009 to make room for a tennis court and parking
spaces, according to building records.  Cars registered under Stern’s name in Florida include three
Ferraris, four Porsches, a Rolls-Royce, a Cadillac and the
Bugatti, according to the state Department of Highway Safety and
Motor Vehicles. He also owns a yacht, Tew said.  “He started from scratch and has built a wonderful legal
practice and has made a lot of money,” Tew said. “That’s the
American dream isn’t it?”  One in 34 housing units in Florida was in the foreclosure
process or bank-owned as of Oct. 1, the third-highest rate in
the country, according to Irvine, California-based  RealtyTrac
Inc. , which monitors foreclosure data. State courts have hired
additional judges to hear foreclosure cases and clear the
backlog.  Foreclosures Quadruple  Foreclosures processed by Stern’s law firm more than
quadrupled to 70,328 in 2008 from 15,332 in 2006, according to
the regulatory filing. Revenue from non-law-firm operations
jumped to $199.2 million in 2008 from $40.4 million over the
same period, the filing said. DJSP depends on the firm for case
referrals, according to the regulatory filing.  Stern’s law firm received more than 6,000 new foreclosure
cases a month and managed 100,000 at any given time, according
to the filing, which is dated Dec. 28, 2009.  “David and foreclosure lawyers are foreclosing legitimate
mortgages that are in default,” Tew said. “And yet, they have
been successfully villainized.”  According to the filing, the law firm has represented the
biggest banks and mortgage servicers in the U.S., including
Wells Fargo & Co.;  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s Litton Loan
Servicing, Countrywide Financial, now owned by Bank of America
Corp.; and government-supported Fannie Mae, the mortgage-
financing company. Stern was named Fannie Mae’s attorney of the
year in 1998 and 1999, according to the filing.  State Bar Rebuke  The Florida Bar, which regulates lawyers in the state, has
an open investigation into Stern, according to Karen Kirksey, a
spokeswoman. She declined to comment on the nature of the
investigation because it’s confidential. The Supreme Court of
Florida approved a reprimand of Stern in 2002 after the bar said
he submitted “potentially misleading” affidavits about his
costs in foreclosure cases, according to court documents. He
consented to the reprimand, court documents show.  At an investor conference in California in March, Stern
told investors that rising foreclosures were the key to DJSP’s
success, according to a securities lawsuit filed against Stern
and DJSP filed in federal court in Florida in July.
Foreclosures, he said, would stay high until 2017, even as
President  Barack Obama  acted to keep people in their homes.  “No matter what the Obama administration brings our way,
we have found the way to create a profit center on it,” Stern
said at the conference, according to the lawsuit.  ‘A Factory’  Hilton Wiener, a Florida attorney who has defended
homeowners in foreclosure cases against Stern’s firm, described
Stern’s operations as “more similar to a factory than a law
firm.” The business, he said, depends on homeowners’ not
contesting foreclosures so that cases can move quickly through
the courts to judgment, Wiener said, basing his view on former
Stern paralegals whom he has hired.  “This is like a production line,” he said. “The bank
needs them to get certain results. It just becomes a foreclosure
processing mill.”  Stern’s employees were under pressure to process cases as
quickly as possible, according to a deposition of Tammie Lou
Kapusta, a former paralegal in his law firm.  Under oath, Kapusta told lawyers for the Florida attorney
general’s office that Stern’s business grew from about 250
employees in 2008, when she started, to 1,100 when she was fired
in July 2009. She said she was fired after refusing to follow a
practice that she said she believed was improper.  ‘Getting the Judgments’  Employees repeatedly signed affidavits without reviewing
them, forged signatures, and improperly notarized and backdated
documents, she said, according to a transcript of the interview.  “Everything was about getting the judgments entered
because we have to report back to the banks,” Kapusta said.  Tew, Stern’s attorney, declined to comment specifically on
Kapusta’s allegations. He said that she was fired for cause and
that she provided no evidence to back her claims.  Kelly Scott, a legal assistant who said she left the firm
in February 2009 due to illness, made allegations similar to
Kapusta’s in a sworn interview Oct. 4 with the Florida attorney
general’s office.  Paralegals at Stern’s firm signed documents on behalf of
bank employees and had the authority to do so, Tew said. In May
2009, they stopped that practice so that only bank employees now
sign the documents.  Fixed Fees  Stern’s businesses are paid fixed fees for legal and
nonlegal work, such as $400 for title searches, according to the
regulatory filing and Stern’s remarks at the investor
conference, as quoted in the securities lawsuit. Profit depends
on cutting costs and boosting volume. The business is supported
by an operation in the Philippines that provides data entry and
document preparation, according to the filing.  This year, Stern made about $146 million when he sold his
non-legal foreclosure operations to China-based Chardan 2008
China Acquisition Corp., a “blank check” company originally
formed to do business in China, according to a regulatory
filing. The company was renamed DJSP Enterprises.  Stern and his businesses were paid as much as $58.3 million
in cash, given a note of at least $52.7 million and promised
another $35 million in cash that must be paid in full within
five years, according to the filing. He also received about 6
million common and preferred shares in the company. Stern is the
 seventh-largest shareholder  of DJSP with a stake of 4.2 percent,
according to Bloomberg data.  DJSP reported a profit of $3.8 million on  revenue  of $56.1
million in the second quarter.  On Oct. 14 DJSP said it was laying off 10 percent of its
workforce because foreclosure referrals had “declined
dramatically,” after lenders including Bank of America and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  suspended foreclosures and evictions.  DJSP rose 9 cents to $1.60 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market
 trading . The shares have dropped 82 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 