-- Former Al-Qaeda Trainer Takes Stand in U.S. Trial Over Embassy Bombings
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2010-10-19T22:52:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/former-al-qaeda-trainer-takes-stand-in-u-s-trial-over-embassy-bombings.html
A former al-Qaeda instructor who
trained recruits in munitions, bomb-making and anti-aircraft
weapons took the stand against  Ahmed Ghailani , who’s accused of
helping the terrorist group attack two U.S. embassies in Africa.  L’Houssaine Kherchtou, 46, a Moroccan who is now a
cooperating witness for the U.S., testified he was a waiter in
Italy when he decided in 1991 to travel to Afghanistan to join
the mujahedeen. After successfully completing his training,
Kherchtou said he was recruited, took an oath and became a sworn
member of al-Qaeda, he said.  Ghailani, 36, a Tanzanian, is charged with participating in
a global conspiracy with al-Qaeda leader  Osama bin Laden  that
includes the near-simultaneous bombings of U.S. embassies in
Tanzania and Kenya in 1998 that killed 224 people, including 12
U.S. citizens. Prosecutors allege that Ghailani, the first
Guantanamo Bay detainee to be prosecuted in a U.S. civilian
court, helped buy the truck used to deliver the bomb in the
Tanzania attack.  “There was military training, physical training,” said
Kherchtou, who testified for about an hour before court ended
for the day. “The first phase was training in AK-47s, M-16s,
Uzis, then we moved on to small weaponry such as antitank
weapons, RPGs and the third phase was mortars and anti-aircraft
weapons and howitzers. We also learned about mines and
grenades.”  Pilot Training  Kherchtou, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy to kill U.S.
nationals and now lives in the U.S., said he was first a trainer
at the al Siddiq terrorist training camp in Afghanistan, and in
1993, he moved to Nairobi, Kenya, where he trained to become a
pilot. He said he broke with bin Laden and the group in “late
1995 or early 1996.”  U.S. prosecutors told jurors in opening statements last
week that while Kherchtou didn’t know Ghailani in Africa, he
could describe how the terrorist group’s cells in Tanzania and
Kenya operated. Prosecutors allege that Ghailani, a Tanzanian,
was a vital member of the cell which carried out both embassy
bombings.  Ghailani has pleaded not guilty to the charges and his
lawyers told jurors he was “duped” by al-Qaeda members into
helping collect items used in the attack.  Sudan, Somalia  Kherchtou said when he moved to Nairobi, Kenya, he acted as
a facilitator for other terrorists traveling to participate in
the civil war in Somalia. He will return to the witness stand
tomorrow when the testimony resumes, prosecutors said.  “I was also helping members of al-Qaeda go back and forth
from Kenya to the Sudan and Somalia, just buying them tickets,
getting them a hotel,” Kherchtou said.  The U.S. alleges Ghailani fled Africa with a senior al-
Qaeda explosives trainer and remained active in the terror
group. He was indicted by a federal grand jury in New York in
December 1998.  He was captured in Pakistan in July 2004 and held by the
U.S. Central Intelligence Agency where he was subjected to
“enhanced interrogation techniques,” the U.S. has said.  He was taken to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, in September 2006 and
transferred to federal court in New York last year, after the
Obama administration said it planned to close Guantanamo and try
some terrorism suspects held there in civilian courts.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 