-- France, U.K. Targeted in European Union Push to Revamp $170 Billion Budget
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2010-10-19T14:18:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/france-u-k-targeted-in-european-union-push-to-revamp-170-billion-budget.html
The European Union told France to
brace for cuts in farm subsidies and the U.K. to prepare for
higher payments to the $170 billion EU budget as part of plans
to increase spending on research and energy.  The European Commission floated the ideas in a policy paper
on post-2013 changes to the EU budget, almost half of which goes
to agriculture and from which the U.K. gets a multibillion-euro
refund. The commission, the bloc’s executive arm, will now draft
proposals that leaders such as French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
and British Prime Minister David Cameron would have to endorse.  France is the biggest beneficiary of European farm aid,
which the commission under President  Jose Barroso  wants to shift
to growth-boosting areas to speed Europe’s recovery from the
worst recession since World War II. The U.K.’s budget rebate,
which Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher negotiated in 1984 when
Britain was one of the poorer countries in the bloc, was worth
5.3 billion euros ($7.3 billion) last year.  “We encourage everybody to engage in an open debate
without taboos,” Barroso said in a  statement  today in
Strasbourg, France, where the European Parliament is holding its
monthly plenary session.  The 27-nation EU is gearing up for a political battle over
budget guidelines set every seven years, with the economic slump
emboldening largely northern European supporters of a spending
overhaul. A U.K.-led group aims to slash EU  agricultural aid , a
legacy of continental Europe’s goal after World War II to ensure
adequate food production, while France heads an alliance keen to
maintain the farm subsidies.  This year’s EU budget of 123 billion euros is the fourth
under a multiyear spending plan that locked in agricultural
payments -- of which France receives almost a fifth -- through
2013. The accord on the 2007-2013 program also met demands by
the EU’s main financiers, including the U.K., to limit their
payments after the bloc added ex-communist eastern European
nations that are entitled to development aid.  National governments finance 70 percent of the EU budget
and the agreement fixed total spending in 2007-2013 at 864
billion euros, or 1.1 percent of the region’s gross domestic
product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Strasbourg, France, at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  