-- Bank of America Leads Rise in Bank Risk Amid Mortgage Concern
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-10-19T21:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/gauge-of-corporate-credit-risk-rises-as-china-increases-interest-rates.html
A benchmark indicator of corporate
credit risk rose for the fourth time in six days amid concern
banks will have to buy back soured mortgages and China
unexpectedly raised its benchmark lending rate for the first
time since 2007.  Credit-default swaps on banks led by Bank of America Corp.
soared after people familiar with the matter said Pacific
Investment Management Co.,  BlackRock Inc.  and the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  are among a group seeking to make the
largest U.S. lender repurchase loans packaged into $47 billion
of bonds.  China’s decision to raise interest rates to 5.56 percent
from 5.31 percent pushed the index higher earlier today on
concern it will damp growth at the world’s fastest-growing major
economy and could speed up inflation, according to  Michael Reiner , a credit strategist at Societe Generale.  “There’s still disproportionate downside risk,” Reiner
said. “On the upside, you have potentially an improving
earnings story and a bet on economic recovery. On the downside,
you have everything else -- which means a weakening economy,
slowing revenue growth, the sovereign issue certainly has not
disappeared, China slowdown. You name it, it’s on the other side
of that scale.”  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbed 2.7 basis points to a mid-price of 99.6 as of 5:06 p.m.
in New York, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Alleged Failures  The index, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates, closed at the lowest in more than five months on
Oct. 13 at 95.5 basis points, after declining from 106.7 on
Sept. 30, Markit Data show.  Bank of America credit swaps rose 17.4 basis points to 200,
CMA data show. The largest U.S. lender, which today reported a
$7.3 billion loss tied to new rules on consumer accounts and
credit cards, said it’s fighting demands to buy back allegedly
faulty loans.  A group of bondholders wrote a letter to Bank of America
and Bank of  New York Mellon Corp. , the debt’s trustee, citing
alleged failures by Countrywide Financial Corp. to service loans
properly, their lawyer said yesterday in a statement that didn’t
name the firms.  The New York Fed acquired mortgage debt through its 2008
rescues of Bear Stearns Cos. and American International Group
Inc.  Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America will
“defend our shareholders“ by disputing any unjustified demands
it buy back defective mortgages, Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said today.  Debt Surged  Most claims “don’t have the defects that people allege,”
Moynihan said on Bloomberg Television, referring to so-called
put-backs, in which guarantors or investors in mortgage-backed
securities ask for the return of bad loans. “We end up
restoring them, and they go back in the pools.”  Jeffrey V. Smith, a spokesman for the New York Fed,
declined to comment.  Contracts on Bank of America debt surged 47.8 basis points
last week after the bank halted foreclosures on Oct. 8 to review
its procedures. A probe by attorneys general in all 50 states
focusing on faulty foreclosure documents has raised concern that
lenders will be forced to buy back billions of dollars of loans
from investors. The bank said yesterday it plans to resume
filing foreclosure affidavits.  Goldman Earnings  Credit swaps on Goldman Sachs Group Inc. climbed 3.7 basis
points to 146.4 even after the biggest securities firm by
revenue had better than expected earnings, according to data
provider CMA.  Third-quarter net income fell to $1.9 billion, or $2.98 a
share, from $3.19 billion, or $5.25, a year earlier, the New
York-based bank said today in a statement. The average estimate
of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $2.29 a share, with
predictions ranging from $1.81 to $3.09.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings decreased 1.4 basis points to 101,
Markit prices show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  