-- Geithner Weak Dollar Seen as U.S. Recovery Route Versus BRICs
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-10-19T08:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/geithner-weak-dollar-policy-seen-as-path-to-recovery-in-contest-with-brics.html
For U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , a weaker dollar may now be in the national
interest.  The dollar has dropped more than 7 percent since Aug. 27,
when Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the Federal Reserve is
prepared to ease monetary policy. Where once such a decline may
have been met with resistance from the U.S., Geithner may now be
tolerating it as a way of bolstering the recovery.  Companies from  Costco Wholesale Corp.  to Deere & Co. have
credited the weaker dollar for giving their earnings a boost,
and the currency’s slide has helped propel the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  above 11,000 for the first time since May.
Higher stock prices in turn are bolstering consumer and business
confidence. The danger is that the decline gets out of hand,
fueling increases in the cost of living over the long term and
prompting investors to avoid U.S debt.  “In an era where deflation pressures appear to be the
greatest risk, growth is below trend and the U.S. wants to boost
exports, why would they not want” a weaker dollar,  Jim O’Neill ,
chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management in London, said in an
interview. “The answer is when it becomes a problem for
financial markets. Until then it’s a straightforward strategy.”  The U.S. currency is slipping in reaction to a decline in
interest rates that’s making U.S. assets less attractive to
overseas investors. The yield on the two-year Treasury note
touched 0.3508 percent yesterday, the least since reaching a
record low 0.3270 percent on Oct. 12.  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index , used by IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to
track the greenback against six currencies including the euro,
yen and pound, has dropped about 7 percent since Aug. 27, when
Bernanke said the Fed “will do all that it can” to ensure a
continuation of the economic recovery.  The index gained 0.4 percent today to 77.275 as of 9:08
a.m. in London. The gauge, which began in 1967, is still close
to its low reached in April 2008.  The dollar is trading near parity against its Australian
counterpart for the first time since 1983, and is close to its
weakest versus the yen in 15 years.  Geithner said yesterday that the U.S. will preserve
confidence in a “strong dollar.” Speaking at an event in Palo
Alto, California, he said the U.S. “will not engage” in
currency devaluation.  Weaker Dollar  A weaker dollar can help the economy by making U.S.
products less expensive in overseas markets and by boosting the
overseas earnings of U.S. companies in dollar terms. As the cost
of imports rises, American consumers switch to U.S.-made goods,
and domestic producers face less competition from abroad.  “The dollar is going to go down,”  Martin Feldstein , a
Harvard University professor who was chief economic adviser to
President  Ronald Reagan , said Oct. 7 in a Bloomberg Television
interview on “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “It will
cause Americans to shift from imported goods into domestic
services. All of that will strengthen the economy.”  The  trade gap  widened 8.8 percent in August to $46.3
billion. Imports from China climbed to a record $35.3 billion in
August, pushing the trade shortfall with the Asian nation to $28
billion, the highest since comparable data began in 1992.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has jumped 13 percent since
Bernanke’s speech on prospects that economic growth will be
spurred by a resumption of large-scale asset purchases by the
Fed and exporters’ earnings will benefit from a weaker dollar.  Overseas Sales  Companies in the S&P 500 that get more than half of their
revenue internationally have returned about 5.1 percentage
points more than those whose sales comes mostly from the U.S.
since the start of September, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A weaker dollar is “a positive for equities as long as
it’s not viewed as a collapse of the dollar,” said  Paul Zemsky ,
the New York-based head of asset allocation for ING Investment
Management, which oversees $550 billion.  Matt McCormick , portfolio manager at Cincinnati-based Bahl
& Gaynor Inc., which manages $2.9 billion, said the dollar’s
weakness is benefiting companies he owns with “significant”
overseas revenue, including McDonald’s Corp., Procter & Gamble
Co., Intel Corp. and Qualcomm Inc.  “A low dollar will be with us for longer than most people
expect,” he said.  Currency ‘Tailwinds’  Issaquah, Washington-based Costco, the largest U.S.
warehouse club chain, is benefiting from foreign-exchange
“tailwinds,” Chief Financial Officer  Richard Galanti  said Oct.
6. He said the dollar’s decline in many of the countries where
the company operates increased sales by about $1.6 billion over
the course of its fiscal year.  Moline, Illinois-based Deere, the world’s largest farm
equipment maker, said in August that net sales of worldwide
equipment operations rose 6 percent in the nine months ended
July 31 from a year earlier, including a favorable currency
translation of 3 percent.  Lawson Software Inc., a St. Paul, Minnesota-based provider
of business-management software to Safeway Inc. and the Mayo
Clinic, said appreciation of the euro on the quarter ended Aug.
31 boosted sales above its projections.  The economic benefits of a weaker currency give Geithner
reason to downplay the “strong dollar” policy first
articulated in about 1995, when he was deputy assistant Treasury
secretary under  Robert Rubin , who served as the Treasury
secretary from 1995 to 1999.  ‘Free Market’  “Geithner’s comments recently have been not exactly
dollar-supportive,” said  Barry Knapp , chief U.S. equity
strategist at Barclays Plc in New York. “Typically what happens
is that the Treasury either says we support a strong dollar or
we think a free market should decide where the dollar goes, and
that means we don’t mind if it goes down.”  That doesn’t mean the administration is actively trying to
drive down the currency, which investors might interpret as a
U.S. effort to devalue its way out of debt, said  Jacob Funk Kirkegaard , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington.  Even if the U.S. is not trying to push the dollar higher,
“you can’t say that that amounts to having an active policy to
drive down the dollar,” he said.  Geithner this month blamed China’s policy of limiting gains
in the yuan for contributing to a “damaging dynamic” of
capital controls and currency-market interventions by emerging
economies.  “It is very important to see more progress by the major
emerging economies to more flexible, more market-oriented
exchange-rate systems,” he said Oct. 6.  ‘Significantly Undervalued’  Geithner went further in comments yesterday, saying the
yuan is “significantly undervalued, more so than is true of any
major, significant emerging-market currency.”  A weaker dollar may be a relief for the U.S. economy, with
an  unemployment rate  that is forecast to exceed 9 percent
through next year, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  In his State of the Union address in January, President
 Barack Obama  said U.S. jobs will depend in part on the country’s
ability to boost overseas sales. Meeting his target would mean
exports reaching $3.14 trillion by 2015 from $1.57 trillion in
2009, according to the White House.  As long as the decline is “orderly, not negatively
impacting U.S. asset prices -- Geithner is quite happy with the
depreciation in the currency,” said  David Gilmore , a partner at
Foreign Exchange Analytics in Essex, Connecticut.  Yuan Gains  Still, developing nations may not cooperate as they seek to
protect their own exports and curb inflows of capital that
threaten to lift their currencies.  China, the second-largest trading partner for the U.S.
after Canada, has limited gains in the yuan to 2.7 percent since
it dropped its peg to the dollar in June.  “We are committed to a more flexible exchange regime,”  Yi Gang , Deputy Governor of the People’s Bank of China, said on
Oct. 9 during a meeting of the International Monetary Fund in
Washington. “But the approach is probably a gradual one.”  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , who has spoken of
a “currency war,” yesterday said the country will increase a
tax on foreigners’ investments in fixed-income securities to 6
percent from 4 percent. The tax on foreign investors’ margin
deposits for futures markets will climb to 6 percent from 0.38
percent, Mantega told reporters in Sao Paulo.  G-20 Frictions  India’s central bank may intervene in currency markets if
the rupee appreciates past 43 against the dollar, a finance
ministry official with knowledge of the matter said Oct. 18. The
rupee has climbed 3.3 percent in the last month to 44.36 per
dollar yesterday.  Frictions may fester this week as Geithner and Bernanke
meet with counterparts from the Group of 20 developed and
emerging nations Oct. 22-23 in South Korea to craft an agenda
for a Seoul summit of leaders next month.  “Each of these central banks and Treasury departments
recognizes there is a competitive beggar-thy-neighbor
devaluation game going on and that’s something you don’t want to
be left behind in,” said  Stephen King , chief economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  