-- German Firm Bemoans European Ban on Incandescent Bulbs, to Sell Heatballs
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2010-10-19T11:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/german-firm-bemoans-loss-of-incandescent-light-bulbs-sells-heatballs.html
A German company bemoaning the
European ban on incandescent light bulbs as a “loss of lighting
culture” is offering “heatballs” to consumers in the region’s
biggest economy.  The company, DTG Trading GmbH, decided to sell heatballs
after the European Union in 2005 agreed to set higher
environmental standards for household products to help protect
the environment. The EU started to phase out traditional bulbs
in 2009, with a full ban due by September 2012.  “Heatballs are technically very similar to the classic
light bulb, but they’re not meant to be used for lighting, but
for heating,” DTG says on its  website . Heatballs “fit into any
conventional socket” made for light bulbs, the company says.  The  2005 EU eco-design legislation  covers electrical goods,
electronic devices and heating equipment and is part of the 27-
nation’s push to improve energy efficiency by 20 percent in
2020. German consumers stocked up on traditional light bulbs for
chandeliers and other lamps after the measure was announced.  “In houses with passive heating, the warmth that’s
produced by light bulbs accounts for a significant share of
heating energy,” DTG says in elaborating on the use of its
products. “Swapping light bulbs for energy-saving lamps reduces
this share, which has to be supplied by other means.”  DTG says heatballs are very efficient as they convert 95
percent of the supplied energy into heat and only 5 percent into
light. DTG will donate a share of its revenue for projects that
aim to protect rain forests, the company says.  “Heatball means resistance against directives that are
beyond democratic and parliamentarian control that put citizens
under tutelage,” the company says. “Heatball also means
resistance to the disproportionality of measures to protect the
environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  