-- Germany to Secure `Necessary' Swiss Tax Data, Deputy Finance Minister Says
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-10-19T12:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/germany-to-secure-necessary-swiss-tax-data-deputy-finance-minister-says.html
Germany will be able to obtain
“necessary” tax data from Swiss authorities as part of an
information-exchange agreement that will probably be signed this
month, Deputy Finance Minister Hartmut Koschyk said.  Germany will receive information on potential tax evaders
based on Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
standards, Koschyk said today in an interview in Berlin.
Negotiators are seeking to wrap up talks and sign the accord in
the next two weeks, he said.  “This agreement that we’re signing with Switzerland will
ensure in the future we will be able to receive necessary
information in accordance with OECD standards,” Koschyk said
following a briefing at the Finance Ministry.  Germany and Switzerland are nearing agreement on double
taxation and a levy on so-called legacy assets held by German
investors in Swiss accounts, allaying tensions that have arisen
as the government in Berlin seeks to battle tax evasion.  Koschyk declined to detail how a withholding tax on
holdings in Switzerland would be implemented. He dismissed a
report in  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung  that a deal with
Switzerland could bring in a one-time gain in tax revenue of as
much as 30 billion euros ($42 billion) next year.  “This issue with the gigantic numbers in tax revenue --
that’s purely speculative,” Koschyk said.  German authorities yesterday confirmed the purchase of a CD
with stolen Swiss bank information. The purchase of such data by
prosecutors to pursue tax evaders has strained ties with
Switzerland, which says it won’t offer legal assistance for
cases that involve illicit information.  Officials in the western city of Muenster paid 1.5 million
euros for a CD with data on 200 accounts at Zurich-based  Julius
Baer Group Ltd. , Gerit Bischoff, a spokeswoman for the
prosecutor, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  