-- German Investor Confidence Fell to 21-Month Low in October
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-10-19T09:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/german-investor-confidence-may-fall-to-21-month-low-in-october.html
German  investor  confidence fell to a
21-month low in October as weaker global growth and a stronger
euro dimmed the export outlook.  The  ZEW Center for European Economic Research  in Mannheim
said its  index  of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict developments six months ahead, dropped for a sixth
month, to minus 7.2 from minus 4.3 in September. While the
reading was the lowest since January 2009, ZEW’s gauge of the
current situation jumped to 72.6, a three-year high.  Europe’s largest economy may cool after expanding at the
fastest pace in two decades in the second quarter as foreign
sales, the main driver of growth, lose momentum. At the same
time, falling unemployment is boosting household confidence and
spending, prompting the Bundesbank to predict yesterday that
growth may exceed 3 percent this year. The benchmark  DAX share
index  has gained 10 percent since Aug. 30 and extended its gain
today after ZEW’s report.  The decline in the headline number “probably reflected
some concerns about the global headwinds facing Germany,” said
 Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt.
“However, it is absolutely no reflection on the underlying
strength of the German economy. Domestic demand is finally
picking up, so ZEW should stabilize in the coming months.”  The euro rose a third of a cent to $1.3956 after the ZEW
data. It has jumped 16 percent against the dollar since June 7,
threatening to hurt sales outside the currency bloc just as the
global recovery weakens.  German exports declined for a second month in August.  Global Slowdown  The International Monetary Fund said on Oct. 6 it expects
the world economy to expand 4.2 percent next year instead of a
previously projected 4.3 percent. In 2010, the economy may grow
4.8 percent, the Washington-based fund said.  With governments across the euro region cutting spending
and raising taxes to push down budget deficits, German companies
are relying on faster-growing markets in Asia to boost sales.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and  Daimler AG’s  Mercedes-Benz,
the two biggest makers of luxury vehicles, this month projected
higher fourth-quarter sales on surging demand in China.  German exports will rise at the fastest pace in a decade
this year, led by demand for cars and machinery from outside
Europe, the BGA federation said today. Exports will grow by
about 16 percent, the Berlin-based group said, revising its
forecast up from about 10 percent.  Domestic Demand  The Bundesbank said yesterday that domestic demand is also
“increasingly aiding the economy.”  Hugo Boss AG , the German luxury clothier, on Oct. 14 raised
its sales and earnings forecast for this year after reporting a
19 percent increase in third-quarter revenue.  “We’ve seen a tremendous increase in expectations for
private consumption,” ZEW economist  Michael Schroeder  said.  Consumers may step up spending as companies add workers,
Germany’s leading economic institutes said Oct. 14. The
country’s  unemployment rate  will drop to 7 percent in 2011 from
7.7 percent this year, the institutes said.  “Consumer spending may not be able to fully compensate for
falling exports, but the global slowdown might not be as
pronounced as many people fear,” said  Alexander Koch , an
economist at Unicredit Group in Munich. “Either way, if anyone
can cope with a stronger euro, it’s Germany.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  