-- Giants Defeat Phillies 3-0, Lead NL Championship Series 2-1
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2010-10-20T00:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/giants-defeat-phillies-3-0-behind-cain-lead-nl-championship-series-2-1.html
The smallest player in the Giants’
lineup again had the biggest hit as  Cody Ross  singled in the
first run in San Francisco’s 3-0 win against the Philadelphia
Phillies in the National League Championship Series.  The 5-foot-10 (1.78 meter) Ross, who hit three solo home
runs as the Giants split the first two games of the series in
Philadelphia, snapped a scoreless tie today as San Francisco
took a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven series.  Ross, a midseason castoff of the Florida Marlins, now finds
himself being serenaded by chants of “Co-dy, Co-dy” from San
Francisco fans.  “It’s an easy name to chant, that’s probably why,” Ross
explained. “The Giants were awesome to bring me over here and
it’s just been a great ride so far.”  San Francisco’s  Matt Cain  allowed two hits in seven
scoreless innings to outpitch  Cole Hamels , who had won all four
of his previous postseason road starts. Hamels had a perfect
game through three innings, then allowed two-out scoring singles
by Ross and  Aubrey Huff  in the fourth.  “He was lights out,” Ross said about Cain in a televised
interview. “Every time he steps out there he’s a bulldog. He’s
fearless. He goes right at guys.”  ‘Definitely Hot’  Ross, acquired by the Giants after being waived by the
Marlins in mid-August, hit two home runs off  Roy Halladay  in San
Francisco’s 4-3 win in the series opener. He hit another off  Roy Oswalt  in the Phillies’ 6-1 win in Game 2.  “He’s definitely hot,” Hamels said of Ross. “He’s been
battling and hitting pitches that most normal people can’t hit
at this time. When guys are hot, they can hit anything.”  Game 4 is set for tomorrow night in San Francisco, with  Joe Blanton  scheduled to start for the Phillies against 21-year-old
Giants rookie  Madison Bumgarner .  “I would say tomorrow is the biggest game we played so
far,” Phillies manager  Charlie Manuel  said in a news conference.
“Today was the biggest game, but tomorrow becomes bigger.”  The host New York Yankees will try tonight to even up the
American League Championship Series, which the Texas Rangers
lead 2-1. The Rangers won 8-0 last night, with  Cliff Lee  and
 Neftali Feliz  combining for 15 strikeouts in a two-hitter.  Burnett for Yankees  A.J. Burnett , who was dropped from the Yankees’ rotation
for the AL Division Series, is the starting pitcher for the
defending World Series champions.  Tommy Hunter  is the Game 4
starter for the Rangers.  In San Francisco, the Phillies had two men on base in the
third, fourth and seventh innings. None of those baserunners
reached third base. Giants reliever  Javier Lopez  got three
straight outs in the eighth and  Brian Wilson  got the save,
allowing one hit in the ninth before getting  Raul Ibanez  to hit
into a game-ending double play.  The Phillies were shut out in a postseason game for the
first time since losing 5-0 to the Baltimore Orioles in Game 5
of the 1983 World Series.  “Look, when you don’t score no runs, you don’t get no hits,
it’s hard to win the game,” Manuel said.  Giants’ Offense  After Hamels breezed once through the San Francisco lineup,
 Edgar Renteria  got the Giants’ first hit leading off the fourth
inning and moved to second base on a sacrifice bunt by  Freddy Sanchez . A strikeout and a walk preceded the run-scoring hits by
Ross and Huff.  The Giants made it 3-0 in the fifth as  Aaron Rowand  doubled
and scored on a two-out infield single by Sanchez that Phillies
second baseman  Chase Utley  couldn’t handle.  The home team has won Game 3 of the NLCS the past seven
years. Since the seven-game NLCS format was introduced in 1985,
the Game 3 winner has gone on to win the series 15 of 25 times.  Cain, who had an 11-0 record this regular season when the
Giants scored him three or more runs, had five strikeouts. He
walked three and hit two batters with pitches. Hamels allowed
three runs on five hits in six innings and struck out eight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Gloster  at AT&T Park in San Francisco at 
1397 or  rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  