-- Goldman Sachs Cuts Size of Trading Risks to Lowest Since 2006
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-10-19T19:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/goldman-cuts-trading-risks-to-lowest-since-06-ahead-of-new-capital-rules.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s third-
quarter trading risks were the lowest in almost four years as
clients did less business and the firm conserved capital and
liquid assets in anticipation of new international requirements.  Value-at-risk, a measure of the average sum the company
expects it could lose from trading, dropped to $121 million in
the three months ending Sept. 30 as the firm took smaller risks
in stock, currency and commodity markets, Goldman Sachs reported
today. The third-quarter risk is less than half the record set
in last year’s second quarter, when it reached $245 million.  “The world is still not a very safe place,”  David Viniar ,
Goldman Sachs’s chief financial officer, told analysts on a
conference call when asked why the firm held an average $173
billion in cash and highly liquid instruments. “The same reason
our risk is so low and our balance sheet really hasn’t grown --
there’s been no call on it because there’s been very, very
little activity from our clients.”  Goldman Sachs’s decline in risk-taking coincided with a
drop in revenue from trading stocks, bonds, currencies and
commodities, the New York-based firm’s biggest source of income.
Third-quarter trading revenue fell to $5.63 billion, down 35
percent from the same period last year, the bank said. Average
value at risk fell 42 percent from $208 million a year earlier.  Brad Hintz , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said
he was surprised to see that the firm didn’t take bigger risks
in fixed-income given that prices for most bonds improved in the
quarter. The firm said value-at-risk, known as VaR, related to
interest rates was little changed at $88 million compared with
$87 million in the prior quarter and $159 million a year ago.  ‘Why Would It Be?’  “Was there any secret that rates were dropping and that
credit spreads were coming in? No,” Hintz said. “So why would
it be that VaR was held down?”  Viniar, 55, confirmed on today’s call that the firm shut
down a group of traders that made bets with Goldman Sachs’s own
capital, known as proprietary trading. The unit, called Goldman
Sachs Principal Strategies, was closed to comply with new U.S.
regulations that aim to curb risk-taking by banks.  “It’s accurate that our GSPS business, which is the one
walled-off proprietary trading business, is essentially wound
down,” Viniar said. Before making decisions on other units
“we’re waiting to see how the rules unfold.”  Viniar also said he thinks the firm has adequate capital
and liquidity, or easy-to-sell assets, to meet new requirements
that will be imposed by international regulators under the so-
called Basel III regime. He estimated that the firm’s Tier One
common equity would have equaled almost 8 percent of the
company’s risk-weighted assets at the end of the second quarter
under the new calculations, beating the 7 percent requirement.  “I would suspect that as these rules get more and more
clarified over the next several years, we would be in a position
to give more capital back,” Viniar said. “It’s hard to pin
down an exact date though.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 