-- Goldman Sachs CFO Says Potential Mortgage Losses Aren't Large
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-10-19T17:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/goldman-cfo-says-potential-mortgage-losses-not-large-exposure-is-limited.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s potential
losses from faulty mortgages aren’t large because the firm
played a small role in originating and packaging such loans,
Chief Financial Officer  David Viniar  said.  “It is a very fluid and evolving situation, but we really
are pretty small,” Viniar, 55, said today on a conference call
with analysts. “We just don’t view our exposure there as being
large in the context of the market.”  Home loans packaged into mortgage-backed securities in the
years leading up to the 2008 credit crisis are being challenged
by investors and government-sponsored enterprises such as Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac, sometimes requiring banks to buy them back.
Concern about the potential costs of such mortgage put-backs has
grown after problems with foreclosure paperwork led several U.S.
lenders to stop seizing homes and sparked an investigation by
all 50 state attorneys general.  Litton Loan Servicing LP, Goldman Sachs’s mortgage-
servicing unit, said on Oct. 8 that it was suspending some
foreclosures to review its procedures. Viniar said today that
Litton has 23,000 mortgages in the foreclosure process and is
undertaking an “extensive review” of its procedures.  “While certain process issues were identified as part of
the review to date, Litton believes the underlying foreclosure
decisions were warranted,” Viniar said.  Viniar told analysts that Goldman Sachs, based in New York,
played a minor role in underwriting mortgage-backed securities
and had an even smaller part in creating the original loans
contained in the securities.  “We think most of the risk is as an originator, and even
as an underwriter we were not one of the biggest players, so we
don’t think our exposure’s that big,” he said.  In July, Goldman Sachs agreed to pay $550 million to settle
fraud allegations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, and acknowledged it made a “mistake” in providing
“incomplete information” in marketing materials for a 2007
mortgage-linked security. The settlement was the largest ever
paid to the SEC by a Wall Street firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 