-- Goldman Sachs Shares Rise as Profit Drops Less Than Expected
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-10-19T20:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/goldman-sachs-shares-rise-as-earnings-decline-less-than-analysts-estimated.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  rose to the
highest in almost six months in New York trading after the
company reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates and said
the cost of flawed mortgages and new capital rules won’t be
significant.  The shares gained $3.02, or 2 percent, to $156.72 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4:15 p.m., the highest
price since April 29. Third-quarter  net income  fell to $1.9
billion, or $2.98 a share, exceeding the $2.29 per share average
estimate of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Revenue from trading fixed-income, currencies and
commodities, known as FICC, surpassed results at  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. , even after
declining 14 percent from the second quarter. Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , 56, who led the firm to record earnings
last year, is navigating through a business slowdown and trying
to burnish Goldman Sachs’s reputation after settling a fraud
lawsuit from the Securities and Exchange Commission in July.  “Goldman’s lining itself up for what should be a good
performance in a recovering environment,” said  Brad Hintz  at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., who was named the top analyst
covering brokerage firms in a survey of fund managers by
Institutional Investor magazine this year. “We’re probably at
the low point for Goldman.”  The FICC business, Goldman Sachs’s biggest source of
revenue, fell 37 percent from a year earlier to $3.77 billion.
The business, known as FICC, beat Hintz’s $3.3 billion estimate.  Equities Trading  Equities-trading revenue of $1.86 billion climbed 53
percent from the previous quarter, which included losses on
derivatives. The figure exceeded Hintz’s $1.33 billion estimate.  “The Street underestimated fixed income, but fixed income
wasn’t great,” Hintz said. “The story for the quarter was that
equity rebounded from a very dismal Q2, the bad derivatives
quarter.”  Chief Financial Officer  David Viniar  told analysts on a
conference call that the firm has enough capital and liquidity
to exceed new international requirements imposed by the so-
called Basel III framework.  Under the new rules, which haven’t taken effect yet, the
bank would have had about $59 billion of Tier 1 common equity at
the end of June and about $750 billion of risk-weighted assets,
Viniar estimated, beating the requirement that banks hold Tier 1
common equity equal to 7 percent of risk-weighted assets. He
said that the ratio would rise to 11 percent by the end of 2012,
assuming earnings continue to add to capital and some
derivatives and securitization trades, which would require more
capital under the new rules, are wound down.  Dodd-Frank  The Dodd-Frank financial-regulation legislation signed into
law by President  Barack Obama  in July limits banks’ ability to
trade their own capital, known as proprietary trading, and
requires portions of the derivatives market to be handled on
exchanges. One of Goldman Sachs’s proprietary-trading units,
known as principal strategies, has already been shut down,
Viniar said.  Goldman Sachs’s potential losses from faulty mortgages
aren’t large because the firm played a minor role in creating
such loans as well as in packaging them into securities, Viniar
told analysts today.  Home loans packaged into mortgage-backed securities in the
years leading up to the 2008 credit crisis are being challenged
by investors and government-sponsored enterprises such as Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac, sometimes requiring banks to buy them back.  ‘Fluid’ Situation  “It is a very fluid and evolving situation, but we really
are pretty small,” Viniar said. “We just don’t view our
exposure as being large in the context of the market.”  Concern that the costs of such mortgage put-backs will
increase after faulty foreclosure paperwork has led several U.S.
lenders to stop seizing homes and sparked an investigation by
all 50 state attorneys general.  On Oct. 8, Goldman Sachs’s Litton Loan Servicing LP unit
said that it suspended some home-loan foreclosures as it
completes a review of procedures. Litton has 23,000 mortgages in
the foreclosure process, Viniar said.  “While certain process issues were identified as part of
the review to date, Litton believes the underlying foreclosure
decisions were warranted,” Viniar said.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, reported
a $7.3 billion loss earlier today that the company said was
caused by new federal rules limiting fees on consumer accounts
and credit cards. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based company
said yesterday it would resume  foreclosures  after an Oct. 8 halt
to review its procedures.  Business Shift  Today’s results demonstrate a shift in how Goldman Sachs
makes money as the firm derived 69 percent of revenue from
fixed-income and equities trading in the first nine months of
the year compared with 77 percent a year earlier.  Goldman Sachs cut the size of its average value-at-risk
during the quarter, a measure of how much the firm could lose
trading in a single day, to $121 million. That’s the lowest
level in almost four years and less than half the record set in
the second quarter of last year.  Revenue from investment banking, which includes fees for
advice on takeovers as well as underwriting stock and bond
offerings, surged to $1.12 billion in the quarter, up 22 percent
from the previous quarter and 24 percent from a year earlier.  Goldman Sachs is the No. 1 ranked adviser on mergers and
acquisitions this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The firm’s advisory revenue increased to $496 million in the
quarter from $472 million in the prior quarter and $325 million
in the year-earlier period.  Revenue from debt underwriting rose to $335 million from
$223 million in the prior quarter, while equity underwriting
revenue gained to $288 million from $222 million in the second
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 