-- Goldman Sachs Profit Beats Estimates as Expenses Drop
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-10-19T14:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/goldman-sachs-third-quarter-profit-exceeds-estimates-as-expenses-decline.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the
biggest securities firm by revenue, said profit dropped 40
percent, beating analysts’ estimates, as lower costs and higher
investment-banking revenue cushioned a decline in trading.  Third-quarter  net income  fell to $1.9 billion, or $2.98 a
share, from $3.19 billion, or $5.25, a year earlier, the New
York-based bank said today in a statement. The average estimate
of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $2.29 a share, with
 predictions  ranging from $1.81 to $3.09.  Revenue from trading fixed-income, currencies and
commodities surpassed results at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Bank of
America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. , even after declining 14
percent from the second quarter. Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , 56, who led the firm to record earnings last year, is
navigating through a business slowdown and trying to burnish
Goldman Sachs’s reputation after settling a fraud lawsuit from
the Securities and Exchange Commission in July.  “Goldman’s lining itself up for what should be a good
performance in a recovering environment,” said  Brad Hintz  at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., who was named the top analyst
covering brokerage firms in a survey of fund managers by
Institutional Investor magazine this year. “We’re probably at
the low point for Goldman.”  Share Performance  Goldman Sachs rose $3.05, or 2 percent, $156.75 in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange at 10:26 a.m.,
the fourth-best performance on the 81-company Standard & Poor’s
 500 Financials Index .  Revenue from trading fixed-income, currencies and
commodities, Goldman Sachs’s biggest source of revenue, fell 37
percent from a year earlier to $3.77 billion. The business,
known as FICC, beat Hintz’s $3.3 billion estimate.  Equities-trading revenue of $1.86 billion climbed 53
percent from the previous quarter, which included losses on
derivatives. The figure exceeded Hintz’s $1.33 billion estimate.  “The Street underestimated fixed income, but fixed income
wasn’t great,” Hintz said. “The story for the quarter was that
equity rebounded from a very dismal Q2, the bad derivatives
quarter.”  The Dodd-Frank financial-regulation legislation signed into
law by President  Barack Obama  in July limits banks’ ability to
trade their own capital, known as proprietary trading, and
requires portions of the derivatives market to be handled on
exchanges. One of Goldman Sachs’s proprietary-trading units,
known as principal strategies, is being shut down, people
familiar with the situation said last month.  Business Shift  Today’s results demonstrate a shift in how Goldman Sachs
makes money as the firm derived 69 percent of revenue from
fixed-income and equities trading in the first nine months of
the year compared with 77 percent a year earlier.  Revenue from investment banking, which includes fees for
advice on takeovers as well as underwriting stock and bond
offerings, surged to $1.12 billion in the quarter, up 22 percent
from the previous quarter and 24 percent from a year earlier.  Goldman Sachs is the No. 1 ranked adviser on mergers and
acquisitions this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The firm’s advisory revenue increased to $496 million in the
quarter from $472 million in the prior quarter and $325 million
in the year-earlier period.  Revenue from debt underwriting rose to $335 million from
$223 million in the prior quarter, while equity underwriting
revenue gained to $288 million from $222 million in the second
quarter.  Compensation, Benefits  Goldman Sachs also slashed the money set aside for
compensation and benefits 28 percent from a year earlier to
$3.83 billion, in line with the 28 percent drop in third-quarter
revenue. The reduction helped cut total operating expenses 20
percent to $6.09 billion as the firm grappled with higher costs
for office space and professional fees, which include legal,
accounting and consulting expenses.  Costs also included $27 million of net provisions for
litigation and regulatory proceedings.  The firm, which set a Wall Street pay record in 2007,
allocated $13.1 billion for compensation in the first nine
months of the year, or enough to pay each of its 35,400
employees $370,706 for the period. The figure fell 21 percent
from the $16.7 billion set aside for compensation in the first
nine months of 2009, which amounted to $527,192 per employee at
the time.  Principal Investments  Principal investments, the Goldman Sachs unit that uses the
firm’s own money to take stakes in companies and real estate,
recorded $754 million in gains compared with $943 million in the
prior quarter and $1.26 billion a year earlier. At the end of
the quarter Goldman Sachs sold a stake in Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s largest lender by
market value, for HK$17.45 billion ($2.25 billion).  Asset-management revenue climbed 5 percent to $1.02 billion
from $976 million in the prior quarter as assets under
management rose to $823 billion from $802 billion three months
earlier. A jump in the market value of the assets under
management accounted for the rise, overcoming $13 billion that
clients pulled during the quarter from Goldman Sachs funds.  Revenue from securities services, which includes prime-
brokerage services for hedge funds, declined to $383 million
from $397 million in the prior quarter.  The company’s statement didn’t give any update on the
firm’s Litton Loan Servicing LP unit, which said on Oct. 8 that
it suspended some foreclosures as it completes a review of
procedures.  Foreclosure Freeze  Several banks froze foreclosures and all 50 states’
attorneys general began a joint investigation last week into how
banks handle foreclosures amid evidence that some used faulty
paperwork to try to seize homes. The news sparked concern that
banks may be required to buy back more home loans from investors
in mortgage-backed securities, adding to costs.  The Litton business, which Goldman Sachs acquired in 2008,
isn’t likely to be as much of a concern for Goldman Sachs as the
mortgage issue is for bigger home lenders such as  Bank of
America  and  Wells Fargo & Co. , said  Matt McCormick , a banking-
industry analyst and portfolio manager at Cincinnati-based Bahl
& Gaynor, which manages $2.9 billion and doesn’t own Goldman
Sachs.  “The issue du jour seems to be the mortgage foreclosure
mess,” McCormick said. “The impact on them isn’t as much as
Bank of America or  Wells Fargo .”  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, reported
a $7.3 billion loss earlier today that the company said was
caused by new federal rules limiting fees on consumer accounts
and credit cards. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based company
said yesterday it would resume  foreclosures  after an Oct. 8 halt
to review its procedures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 