-- Google Sees ‘Huge’ Potential in China, Liu Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-19T03:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/google-s-liu-calls-china-very-important-web-market-with-huge-potential-.html
Google Inc ., owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, said China remains a very important
market for the company and there is “huge potential” for it to
win sales by aiding small local companies with global marketing.  “Google is a global company and we have built a platform
that can help facilitate Chinese businesses expanding
overseas,”  John Liu , vice president for China, said at a
Stanford University-sponsored conference in Beijing today.
“There is a huge number of small- and medium-sized businesses
in China and there is huge potential for us to help them.”  Google is adding employees and ramping up efforts to win
new advertisers in China seven months after a clash over
censorship caused it to shut down its Google.cn website in the
nation, the world’s largest Internet market. In March, the
Mountain View, California-based company started redirecting
users to a Hong Kong site, after saying it was no longer willing
to comply with online censorship rules.  China requires locally based websites to censor content on
topics such as the Tiananmen Square crackdown in 1989 and Tibet
independence that are deemed unacceptable to the ruling
Communist Party.  Liu, addressing the conference in Mandarin, said China is
“a unique market” for the Internet, without referring directly
to the company’s dispute with the government over censorship.  Google’s license to operate in China was renewed in July,
and the company expects it to be renewed again next year,
barring a change in posture from Chinese officials, Chief Legal
Officer  David Drummond  said this month.  Global Internet and mobile-phone use will more than double
over the next 10 years, Liu said today. Worldwide wireless users
will rise to 10 billion from 4.6 billion, he said. Internet
users will rise to 5 billion from 1.8 billion, according to Liu.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  