-- Goldman Bonds Are No Match for Lula in Default Swaps Market: Brazil Credit
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2010-10-19T13:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/government-bonds-safer-than-goldman-default-swaps-show-brazil-credit.html
The fastest  economic growth  in two
decades is making Brazilian debt safer than Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Dell Inc., credit default swaps show.  The cost of protecting Brazil debt against non-payment for
five years fell to 89 basis points on Oct. 13, the lowest level
since May 2008 and 6 below the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index that includes Goldman Sachs and Dell,
according to CMA DataVision. Brazil’s BBB- rating from Standard
& Poor’s is four levels below Goldman Sachs, the world’s most
profitable securities firm, and three underneath Dell, the
third-biggest maker of personal computers.  Central bankers forecast Latin America’s largest economy
will grow more than 7 percent this year for the first time since
1986, and more than twice the pace of expansions in the U.S. and
Japan. International investors poured a record $41 billion into
developing-nation bonds this year, driving down yields in
Brazil, China and other emerging countries, according to
research firm EPFR Global.  “There’s a structural change as the credit profile of most
emerging-markets, including Brazil, is improving,” said  Edgardo Sternberg , an emerging-market debt strategist at Boston-based
Loomis Sayles & Co., which manages about $140 billion in assets.
“There will be more upgrades down the road.”  Moody’s Investors Service, which raised Brazil to an
investment-grade ranking of Baa3 in September 2009, said this
month it may revise the country’s rating as soon as March.  BBB+ Rating  The gap between Brazil’s default swaps and the investment
grade index on Oct. 13 was the biggest since September 2008,
according to CMA. It cost 42 basis points, or 0.42 percentage
point, more to insure debt sold by New York-based Goldman Sachs
against default than Brazilian bonds and 24 more to protect
securities from Round Rock, Texas-based Dell.  Goldman Sachs is rated A1 by Moody’s and A by S&P. Dell is
rated A2 by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  Michael DuVally,  a spokesman at Goldman Sachs in New York,
and Dell spokesman  David Frink  declined to comment.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Brazil’s default swaps imply a ratings increase of two
levels, putting the rating at BBB+, according to Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co.  Brazil’s rating outlook was raised on June 28 to positive
from stable by Fitch Ratings, which cited the country’s “growth
dynamics” and “prudent” policies. Fitch rates Brazil BBB-,
the lowest investment grade and in line with rankings from S&P
and Moody’s.  ‘Safe Bet’  Moody’s will review Brazil’s rating when it has access to
gross domestic product data next year,  Mauro Leos , a senior
analyst at the New York-based company, said at an event in Sao
Paulo on Oct. 5.  Sebastian Briozzo , an analyst with S&P in
Buenos Aires, didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment
yesterday.  “The markets are pricing that it’s a pretty safe bet that
the upgrades will continue for Brazil,” said  Win Thin , a senior
currency strategist at Brown Brothers in New York.  Ratings companies will likely delay raising Brazil’s
ranking until the winner of this month’s presidential election
unveils a fiscal plan, said  Henry Stipp , a fund manager at
London-based Threadneedle Asset Management, which manages about
$98 billion of assets.  Jose Serra , a former Sao Paulo governor, is challenging
 Dilma Rousseff , President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s handpicked
successor, in an Oct. 31 run-off vote.  Spending  Rousseff, who would be Brazil’s first female president, has
vowed to maintain the social programs and the economic growth
that has lifted 21 million people out of poverty since 2003. She
said in August that promoting spending cuts was a “crime.”  Serra carried out spending cuts when he was governor of Sao
Paulo, Brazil’s wealthiest and biggest state. He has pledged to
cut government payrolls and renegotiate prices on public
contracts, helping offset plans to boost the minimum wage and
payouts to pensioners.  Lula’s government boosted spending 18.2 percent in July
from a year earlier, helping push the  budget deficit  to 3.4
percent of gross domestic product from 1.2 percent in October
2008. Brazil’s gross debt equaled 60 percent of GDP last year,
compared with 38 percent in Mexico and 46 percent in Colombia.  “They should wait for after the election since we don’t
know what the policies are going to be in Brazil and the fiscal
situation is deteriorating,” Threadneedle’s Stipp said.  Bond Sales  The risk associated with Brazilian bonds is tumbling as
record-low interest rates in the U.S. and Europe boosts demand
for emerging-market assets. Policy makers in Brazil raised the
benchmark interest rate to 10.75 percent from a record low of
8.75 percent in March.  Governments and companies in developing countries borrowed
$196 billion from July to September, the most for any quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Brazil may consider
selling 100-year bonds after Mexico issued $1 billion of the
securities in the longest-maturity offering by a Latin American
country, Treasury Secretary  Arno Augustin  said Oct. 14.  Mexico’s Oct. 5 sale of the so-called century bonds signals
a “bubble” in credit markets, RBC Capital Markets said in a
report two days later.  In the dollar-denominated bond market, yields on Brazil’s
4.875 percent securities due in 2021 have declined 19 basis
points in the past month to 3.76 percent. Yields on Goldman
Sachs’s 5.375 percent coupon due in 2020 have dropped 22 basis
points to 4.69 percent, while yields on Dell’s 5.875 percent
bonds due in 2019 declined 11 basis points to 3.79 percent.  Emerging-market debt is “very, very expensive,” said
 Andrew Brenner , managing director at Guggenheim Capital Markets
LLC, a New-York based brokerage for institutional investors.
“There’s no justification for that. Brazil offers zero value in
dollar bonds.”  Tax  The real tumbled 1.4 percent to 1.6973 per dollar today.
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  boosted the tax on foreigners’
fixed-income investments to 6 percent yesterday, two weeks after
doubling it to 4 percent, to stem a currency rally. The
government is also raising the tax on foreign investors’ margin
deposits for futures markets to 6 percent from 0.38 percent.  The real has gained 36 percent since the end of 2008,
extending its world-beating rally to 108 percent since Lula took
office in 2003. Mantega said last month that governments around
the world are engaging in a “currency war” as they attempt to
stem capital inflows.  “This currency war needs to be deactivated,” Mantega told
reporters yesterday.  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 rose one basis point today to 11.29 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed one basis point to
180, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “You have to place your money somewhere and there’s an
adjustment of risk premium in the markets,” said  Paul Biszko ,
an emerging-markets strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in
Toronto. “There’s a flush of liquidity into Brazil. It has been
a phenomenon now in which nobody assesses the sovereign risk as
what the rating agencies do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  