-- Greater Risk-Management Role Coming to Securities Markets, Francioni Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-10-19T18:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/greater-risk-management-role-coming-to-securities-markets-francioni-says.html
Regulators will force securities and
futures exchanges to take a bigger role in risk management,
Deutsche Boerse AG’s  Reto Francioni  said.  “Markets are currently entering a new landscape,”
Francioni, the chief executive officer of Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Boerse, said at a conference in New York today. “The
major feature of this new landscape is a trend toward re-
regulation.”  Policy makers in Europe and the U.S. are overhauling the
$615 trillion derivatives market and examining rules that govern
equity trading. In the U.S., the Dodd-Frank Act will require
most off-exchange derivatives contracts to be processed and
guaranteed through third-party clearinghouses and traded on
exchanges or similar systems. Transactions will be reported to
trade repositories, which will allow regulators a view of the
overall risk in the market.  Regulations are being put in place to address “ineffective
risk management practices” and the lack of transparency about
 prices  and the amount of risk firms face with one another,
Francioni said at a conference at Baruch College.  The result will be markets that are “much more complex
than the one we have gotten used to in the last 10 years,” he
said. Regulation will move from national agencies to a
“supranational state,” he said.  Society’s Fears  The Dodd-Frank  financial overhaul , which became law in
July, gave the commission a year to establish rules governing
over-the-counter derivatives. Congress took aim at the industry
after soured trades on mortgage and credit derivatives tipped
the U.S. economy into the deepest recession since the 1930s.  Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to
specific events such as changes in interest rates or weather.
Futures are traded on regulated exchanges, while over-the-
counter contracts are privately negotiated.  “We must accept that societies have  fears  about the
financial markets,” Francioni said. He added that regulators
and exchanges must “make sure they have things under control,”
particularly when investors don’t understand how trading works.  He highlighted the role on May 6 of firms who use their own
capital to trade against orders from retail investors sent to
them by discount brokers. During the crash, some so-called
internalizing brokers shuttled orders to exchanges instead,
exacerbating selling pressure in the public market, according to
an Oct. 1 report by U.S. regulators. The actions demonstrate the
fragility of a marketplace that splits executions “over too
wide an array of systems,” Francioni said.  Market Transparency  “Exchanges are used as safe havens for order executions,”
he said. While all trading need not take place on exchanges or
regulated systems, “these markets need to operate on the same
transparency, otherwise we undermine the safe, orderly
functioning of price discovery,” he said.  Legislators and policy makers in Europe and the U.S. are
also reacting to the presence of  high-frequency  trading firms
that now make up most trading volume on some venues, he said.  “The case against HFT is generally overstated,” he said.
Bids and offers from these firms enable investors to do business
electronically when they need to buy and sell. “From an
exchange point of view, HFT poses primarily a technical and
functional challenge,” he said.  More than 98 percent of exchange trading in the 30 most-
active  German shares  took place on Deutsche Boerse’s Xetra
trading system in 2009, he said. More than 40 percent of trading
volume on Xetra was also generated electronically in 2009, a
threefold increase from the level in 2003, he said. He added
that “market design” is meant to make markets more efficient
and also to increase their “safety and integrity.”  The “principle of depending on healthy self-interest as
opposed to depending on lofty idealism” is better for markets,
Francioni said. The “principle of self-interest must not be
allowed to turn against the market interest itself,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 