-- King Says G-20 Needs `Grand Bargain' to Avert Protectionism
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2010-10-20T07:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/group-of-20-needs-grand-bargain-to-avert-global-economic-pain-king-says.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said global finance chiefs need to reach a “grand bargain” to
coordinate economic policies and avert a round of protectionism.  Speaking before Group of 20 finance ministers and central
bankers meet in South Korea on Oct. 22-23, King said major
economies’ policies are in “direct conflict” with each other
and that “collective” action is required to rebalance the
world economy. Failure to find common ground risks the
imposition of trade barriers and weaker global growth, he said.  “What is needed now is a ‘grand bargain’ among the major
players in the world economy,” King said in a speech yesterday
to business leaders in Dudley, England. “A bargain that
recognizes the benefits of compromise on the real path of
economic adjustment in order to avoid the damaging consequences
of a move towards protectionism.”  King echoed investors’ fears that global policy making is
fracturing as countries pursue self-interest by relying on
cheaper currencies to spur growth, forcing trade rivals to adopt
their own measures to maintain a competitive advantage. China
faces accusations of keeping the yuan undervalued to boost
exports, while the shift toward easier monetary policy in the
U.S. and other nations is blamed for propelling capital into
emerging markets.  ‘Innocent Victims’  King also said yesterday that some gauges of U.K. inflation
are “extremely subdued,” signaling he may favor further policy
easing.  Some developing economies with floating currencies, which
King called “innocent victims,” are retaliating. Brazil this
week raised taxes on foreign investments in fixed-income
securities for the second time in a month to restrain the real
and India is indicating it may intervene in currency markets if
its rupee appreciates past 43 against the dollar.  “The risk is that unless agreement on a common path of
adjustment is reached, conflicting policies will result in an
undesirably low level of world output, with all countries worse
off as a result,” King said. “The need to act in the
collective interest has yet to be recognized, and, unless it is,
it will be only a matter of time before one or more countries
resort to trade protectionism.”  To return the world to an even keel, countries with low
savings must cut back their spending at the same time as those
with large current account surpluses spark domestic growth and
stop relying on exports for strength, King said.  ‘Visible’ Challenge  He suggested officials focus first on agreeing the right
speed of adjustment necessary and then the policies required to
meet such targets. Among the tools that should be used are
exchange rates, plans to cut budget deficits and structural
reforms, he said.  “The challenge is clearly visible,” King said. “There is
a clear difference between the path of adjustment desired by the
surplus countries, which are faced with the need for a longer-
term structural shift away from reliance on exports, and the
path of adjustment preferred by the deficit countries, which are
under greater near-term pressure to reduce the burden of debt in
both private and public sectors.”  While the G-20 serves as a “natural forum” for such
discussions, King signaled little faith in its ability by saying
real agreement would require a “revolution.”  He is not alone in expressing concern with the outlook for
global policy making. European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  said Oct. 16 that coordination of macroeconomic
policy is the “least advanced” area of global governance.  ‘Trade War’  South Africa Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said yesterday
there is a “serious danger of competitive devaluations” and
“if we continue on this road, it will result in a trade war.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said this week
that a country can’t “devalue its way to prosperity” and that
the U.S. will not engage in such a strategy.  G-20 finance ministers and central bankers may struggle to
find a solution this week given the different domestic needs of
their economies, said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York. The officials convene
Oct. 22-23 in Gyeongju to shape an agenda for next month’s Seoul
summit of leaders.  “It’s unlikely they’ll find common ground,” McCormick
said. “The status quo will be maintained because economies are
moving in different directions.”  The credit crisis demonstrates the need to “find better
ways of ensuring the right collective outcome,” King said.
While before, countries were “rationally pursuing their own
perceived self interest,” the recent turmoil in financial
markets has demonstrated how doing so “did not make sense in
aggregate,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net . 