-- Chechen Capital Attack Leaves 6 Dead, Raises Pressure on Putin Loyalists
-- B y   L u c i a n   K i m   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-10-19T22:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/gunmen-attack-chechen-capital-during-interior-minister-nurgaliyev-s-visit.html
Gunmen killed at least three people
during an attack on the Chechen capital Grozny, as rebels in the
southern Russian region step up pressure against local
authorities loyal to the Kremlin.  Three armed men infiltrated the regional parliament today,
killing three people and wounding 17, the Investigative
Committee of the Russian Prosecutor General’s Office said on its
 website . One attacker blew himself up outside the building. The
other two entered parliament and blew themselves up when
confronted by law-enforcement officers, the committee said.  Chechen rebels fought two wars against the federal
government between 1994 and 2000. The separatist movement grew
into an Islamist insurgency that took its fight to neighboring
provinces in Russia’s mostly Muslim North Caucasus region.
Chechnya is now ruled by  Ramzan Kadyrov , an ally of Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin .  “This is a blow to Putin and the image of Kadyrov he’s
been promoting,”  Alexei Malashenko , an expert on Islam at the
 Carnegie Moscow Center , said by phone today. “If you can take
the parliament in Grozny, you can attack anywhere.”  Putin last month defended his government’s policy in
Chechnya, saying the province was leading the fight against
extremists in the region. He said the successful defense against
an attack on Kadyrov’s ancestral village of Tsentoroi in August
showed “the situation is in good hands.”  U.S. Reaction  The U.S. offered Russia its “deepest condolences” and
solidarity “in the struggle against terrorism,” said the State
Department’s acting spokesman,  Mark Toner . He said the U.S. was
closely following the situation in the Caucasus region.  “We’re concerned about continued violence in Russia’s
North Caucasus which contributes to instability and personal
insecurity in the region,” Toner said. “Several independent
non-governmental reports confirm that the level of violence has
increased in 2010 in several North Caucasus regions, and we’ve
been following these events closely.”  The federal government is redoubling efforts to calm the
impoverished region with a program to stimulate investment in
tourism, agriculture and infrastructure. The  2014 Winter
Olympics  will take place in the Black Sea resort of Sochi, on
the western edge of the Caucasus mountain range.  Minister’s Visit  Today’s attack coincided with a visit to Chechnya by the
federal interior minister,  Rashid Nurgaliyev , who later praised
the police operation as “professional.”  Islamist fighters in the North Caucasus frequently target
police stations and government officials with suicide attacks
and assassinations. Violence has centered on the republics of
Ingushetia and Dagestan, which border Chechnya, as Kadyrov
proclaimed victory over “bandits” in the mountains.  “He’s losing. There are forces that he can’t control,”
said Malashenko. “His strength is limited.”  Kadyrov, 34, was installed by the Kremlin in 2007. His
father Akhmad Kadyrov, a former separatist leader who switched
sides to become Chechnya’s Moscow-loyal president, was
assassinated in Grozny in 2004. The federal government ended a
decade-long “counterterrorism” operation in Chechnya last
year, leaving regional authorities to maintain order.  ‘Unpunished Violence’  “The policy of ‘Chechenization’ has its limits,” said
Alexander Cherkasov, a spokesman for the Moscow-based  Memorial 
human rights group. “There’s still a lot of unpunished violence
that fills the ranks of terrorists with new members seeking
revenge.”  There have been more than 3,000 disappearances in Chechnya
since 1999, Cherkasov said. The 2009 killing of  Natalya Estemirova , an activist who worked in the group’s Grozny office,
has still not been solved.  Today’s attack was not unexpected, according to Malashenko.
It’s possible that Chechen separatists are experiencing a
revival after being pushed aside by Islamist fighters calling
for a holy war across the region, he said.  No group has claimed responsibility for today’s attack.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  