-- Hands Testifies He Wouldn't Have Bid on EMI Deal
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-10-19T22:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/guy-hands-takes-the-stand-in-8-3-billion-lawsuit-over-emi-acquisition.html
Guy Hands , the founder of Terra
Firma Capital Partners Ltd., testified in his $8.3 billion fraud
suit against  Citigroup Inc.  that his firm wouldn’t have bid on
 EMI Group Ltd.  if he had known there were no other bidders.  Hands, 51, claims that Citigroup’s  David Wormsley  tricked
him into overpaying for EMI, a 113-year-old music company, in a
2007 auction. Hands testified today on the second day of a trial
in U.S. District Court in Manhattan.  Hands claims Wormsley lied to him in a series of phone
conversations over the weekend leading up to the Monday, May 21,
2007, auction for EMI, falsely telling him that Cerberus Capital
Management LP planned to submit a competing bid.  “If he hadn’t made those statements, we wouldn’t have been
bidding that Monday morning at all,” Hands told jurors, under
questioning by his lawyer,  David Boies .  Hands told jurors that several potential bidders dropped
out in the days before the May 21, 9 a.m. deadline for bids,
including  Fortress Investment Group LLC ,  Warner Music Group
Corp.  and JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s One Equity Partners.  He said that on the final weekend before the auction,
Wormsley, whom he described as his friend and business
associate, told him that Cerberus remained in the auction and
was bidding 2.62 pounds per share. Hands told jurors about a
telephone conversation he said he had with Wormsley from the
study of his home, at midnight, nine hours before the bids were
due.  ‘No Games’  “He told me that Cerberus were there at 262, that the bid
had to be in at 9 a.m. the next morning and he told me not to
play any games with the price,” Hands testified.  If he had known the process had turned into a “busted
auction,” with his firm the only bidder, Terra Firma would have
withdrawn from the bidding and negotiated with the sellers
directly for a lower price and for additional due diligence,
Hands told jurors.  The morning after his midnight phone call with Wormsley,
Hands said, he spoke to  Tim Pryce , Terra Firma’s chief executive
officer who was, at the time, the firm’s general counsel. Hands
said he told Pryce to go forward with Terra Firma’s bid of 2.65
pounds a share.  $6.7 Billion  Citigroup, which provided 3 billion pounds ($4.71 billion) in
loans to finance the $6.7 billion acquisition, says Wormsley
didn’t lie to Hands and didn’t even know that Cerberus had
decided not to bid. Terra Firma based its bid on its own
estimate of EMI’s value, not on any statements by Wormsley,
according to Citigroup.  Some observers have said the suit is an attempt by Hands to
pressure Citigroup into renegotiating the EMI financing,
according to  Claire Enders , chief executive officer of Enders
Analysis Ltd., an entertainment industry research firm based in
London.  The EMI sale, which came at the height of the buyout boom
in 2007, has lost money for all involved. Since Hands bought the
company, artists including Queen,  Paul McCartney  and the Rolling
Stones have quit the label. The company slipped from a profit of
86 million pounds in 2006 to losses of 1.57 billion pounds in
2009 and 512 million pounds in 2010.  Hands testified that the auction, which was originally
scheduled for May 23, was moved up 48 hours to May 21. The
change, which Hands said he was told came at the request of
Cerberus, forced Terra Firma to rush to put the financing in
place.  ‘Channel-Stuffing’  Hands told jurors that if Terra Firma had been allowed to
do additional due diligence, it would have discovered more
information about EMI’s finances, including a one-time legal
settlement from Bertelsmann AG and channel-stuffing, or the
over-shipping of goods booked as profit, that inflated reported
earnings.  Hands said he trusted Wormsley and was reluctant to sue
when the EMI deal turned sour.  “I viewed David as my adviser, my banker, the person who
was advising me what to do,” Hands testified. “I viewed
Citibank as advising on the financing.”  On cross-examination, Citigroup lawyer  Ted Wells  showed
Hands e-mails and documents that suggested that Terra Firma’s
2.65 pound bid came as a result of a May 6, 2007, meeting
between Hands and  Eric Nicoli , who was EMI’s chief executive
officer, not because of any recommendation from Wormsley.  2007 E-Mail  Wells also asked Hands about his reaction to a September
2007 e-mail in which Terra Firma executive Stephen Alexander
said that Cerberus had never actually submitted a bid in the
auction earlier that year.  Wells, who questioned Hands about Terra Firma’s focus on
investing in troubled companies, showed jurors a page from the
firm’s 2007 Annual Review.  “The ability to see *potential* where others see only
problems,” the review said.  Hands, who testified for about 2 1/2 hours today, will
return to the stand tomorrow. Wormsley is expected to be called
as a witness in the case.  The case is Terra Firma v. Citigroup, 09-cv-10459, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 