-- Li Family's PCCW, Hutchison Close to Network-Sharing Agreement
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-10-19T08:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/li-family-s-pccw-hutchison-close-to-network-sharing-agreement.html
PCCW Ltd. , Hong Kong’s biggest phone
company, plans to roll out a faster wireless network that’s
jointly built with a unit controlled by the chairman’s father,
 Li Ka-shing , to meet demand from smartphone users.  Details about the proposed fourth-generation network built
by  Richard Li ’s PCCW and rival  Hutchison Telecommunications Hong
Kong Holdings Ltd.  will be announced in the “next few weeks,”
PCCW Managing Director  Alex Arena  said in an interview in Hong
Kong yesterday, declining to elaborate.  The move would build on the strategy by Hong Kong’s richest
family to fend off competition from  China Mobile Ltd.  and
Australia’s  Telstra Corp.  in offering wireless services for
smartphones such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone. PCCW and Hutchison
would follow companies including Vodafone Group Plc and
Telefonica SA in sharing networks to save costs.  “There is a broader trend globally for carriers to share
networks,” said  Tucker Grinnan , head of Asian
telecommunications research at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong.
“Companies focus less on network coverage and focus more on
services and branding.”  Vodafone and Telefonica agreed last year to share network
sites and transmission masts in Germany, Spain, Ireland and the
U.K. to cut costs. In December 2007, the elder Li’s Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. and Deutsche Telekom AG agreed to combine their 3G
networks in the U.K.  Separate Services  A venture between PCCW and Hutchison Telecommunications won
a license to offer 4G services in Hong Kong during a government
auction in January 2009. Units of China Mobile, the  world’s
biggest phone carrier by market value , and Telstra, Australia’s
biggest, also bought permits.  PCCW and Hutchison will maintain separate commercial
operations in 4G services, Arena said.  “It’s not a business combination,” he said. “It’s a
network sharing arrangement.”  PCCW rose 3.7 percent to close at HK$2.83 in Hong Kong,
extending this year’s gain to 51 percent, the best performer in
the  MSCI Asia Pacific Telecommunications Services Index .
Hutchison Telecommunications closed unchanged at HK$2.25 today.  Hutchison Telecommunications had 3.1 million users in Hong
Kong and Macau on its 2G and 3G networks at the end of June, it
said in August. PCCW had 1.5 million mobile-phone subscribers as
of June.  The Li Ka-shing Foundation, the billionaire’s charity, said
last month it invested about $300 million in the PCCW chairman’s
private fund management firm this year.  The elder Li was listed as Hong Kong’s richest man in March
by Forbes magazine after his wealth increased 30 percent to an
estimated $21 billion. Hutchison Whampoa, his biggest company by
market value, has operations in industries spanning ports,
property, energy and telecommunications in more than 50
countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  