-- Liberals' Goodale Leaning Toward Opposing BHP's Hostile Potash Corp. Offer
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-10-19T16:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/liberals-goodale-leaning-toward-opposing-bhp-s-hostile-potash-corp-offer.html
Ralph Goodale , deputy leader of
Canada’s main opposition Liberals, said he may call on the
government to oppose  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40 billion hostile bid
for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. , citing concern that the
offer price is too low and BHP may dominate the industry.  “Based on what I’ve seen, the arguments I’ve heard, I
think this answer should be no,” Goodale, the Liberal Party’s
sole lawmaker in Saskatchewan, said today in a telephone
interview. “It looks like the value is too low and it looks
like the benefits are more negative than positive.”  Liberal opposition may turn the proposed transaction into
an election issue, raising the stakes for Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government as it reviews whether to accept the deal.
The federal government has until Nov. 3 to block the bid if it
finds it doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to the country,
unless BHP agrees to an extension.  Potash Corp., the world’s largest producer of its namesake
crop nutrient, in August rejected Melbourne-based BHP’s offer as
too low and said it was seeking other offers.  Goodale said the sale of Potash would effectively give BHP
control of the “entire” industry.  “Taking a longer-term perspective, I’m just very uneasy
about this,” Goodale said.  Saskatchewan’s View  Saskatchewan has said it will advise the federal government
of its views on BHP’s $130-a-share bid. Energy and Resources
Minister  Bill Boyd  said in an Oct. 6 interview with Bloomberg
Television the offer doesn’t appear to be beneficial to his
province.  A report by the Conference Board of Canada, commissioned by
the province, said Saskatchewan would lose C$2 billion ($1.94
billion) in tax revenue over 10 years should BHP’s bid succeed.  Canadian Industry Minister  Tony Clement  said last week the
federal government is considering all points of view, including
that of the Saskatchewan government, on the benefit of the BHP
bid to Canada.  Clement also said that while he has heard “rumors” of other
companies seeking to acquire Potash Corp. besides BHP, he hasn’t
spoken to any other potential bidders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 