-- IBM Drops After Companies Cut Back on Service-Contract Signings
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-10-19T20:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/ibm-shares-drop-after-service-contracts-decline-for-third-straight-quarter.html
International Business Machines
Corp. , the world’s largest computer-services provider, declined
the most in five months in New York trading after a drop in new
contracts overshadowed an improved financial forecast.  Services signings fell 7 percent to $11 billion in the
third quarter, Armonk, New York-based IBM said yesterday in a
statement, the third straight quarterly drop in new contracts.
While companies increased spending on IBM’s software and
hardware, such as storage computers, they’re holding back on
large outsourcing projects in the aftermath of the recession.  IBM boosted its full-year profit forecast to at least
$11.40 a share, the third time it raised 2010 earnings guidance
this year. The company also reported earnings and sales for the
period that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Investors focus on the service business because it accounts
for almost 60 percent of IBM’s annual  sales  and more than 40
percent of its profit.  “Investors are likely to key in on IT-services signings
being a bit below expectations,” said  Andy Miedler , an analyst
at Edward Jones & Co. in St. Louis, who recommends buying the
shares. “It’s a key measure of deal activity.”  The company signed a $1.8 billion outsourcing deal with ABN
Amro Group NV on Oct. 8. If that had occurred in the third
quarter, services signings would have been $12.7 billion, IBM
said.  IBM fell $4.80, or 3.4 percent, to $138.03 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading, the largest drop since
May 20. Earlier this month, the shares topped their record
closing high of $137.88 set in 1999.  ‘Difficult to Predict’  “It’s very difficult to predict precisely when these deals
will close, and eight days is not going to make any difference
in the yield to this contract,” Chief Financial Officer  Mark Loughridge  said yesterday on a conference call. The company has
a “strong deal list” for outsourcing signings this quarter, he
said.  Net income  for the quarter increased 12 percent to $3.59
billion, or $2.82 a share, from $3.21 billion, or $2.40, a year
earlier. Analysts  predicted  $2.75, the average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales climbed 3 percent to $24.3 billion, topping analysts’
average projection of $24.1 billion. It’s the third consecutive
period during which all business units -- hardware, software and
both services segments -- posted sales gains.  The new full-year profit forecast also exceeded the $11.30
average of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Operating Earnings  Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano  is aiming to almost
double operating earnings to $20 a share in the next five years.
Software will make up about half of profit by then, the company
said in May.  IBM has invested in analytics software and services that
help predict trends, as well as cloud computing, which helps
customers save money by letting them store and access data via
the Internet, rather than from their own servers. Palmisano also
has been investing in his Smarter Planet initiative, based on
the concept that infrastructure, such as buildings or roads, can
be equipped with digital sensors, which in turn will make them
more efficient.  The three technologies, along with sales from emerging
markets, will add $20 billion in revenue by 2015, the company
said in May.  Palmisano said he plans to spend about $20 billion on
 acquisitions  in the same period. He announced seven deals last
quarter, including the $1.7 billion purchase of Netezza Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 