-- Iceland to Water Down Debt Relief Amid Pension Fund Objections
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2010-10-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/iceland-forced-to-water-down-debt-relief-as-pension-funds-block-proposals.html
Iceland’s government will water down
plans to forgive overdue home loans after the country’s pension
funds argued the proposals threatened to deplete the value of
their mortgage assets.  After meeting “financial companies, the pension funds, the
municipalities and members of the labor and employers’ unions,
the Prime Minister noted there was slim support” for blanket
debt relief, Finance Minister  Steingrimur J. Sigfusson  said in
an interview yesterday. “This process will take some time.”  The compromise dilutes government pledges prompted by mass
protests outside the Parliament on Oct. 4. The unrest, which
attracted bigger crowds than in the weeks before former Prime
Minister  Geir H. Haarde  was ousted last year, prompted his
successor,  Johanna Sigurdardottir , to indicate she may support a
proposal to forgive $2 billion in mortgage debt, or 17 percent
of Iceland’s 2009 gross domestic product.  That indication was a political miscalculation, according
to Gunnar Helgi Kristinsson, a professor of political science at
the University of Iceland.  “I can’t understand this in any way other than as a
theatrical gesture,” he said. “By pretending this was actually
on the table and being considered, Johanna managed to provoke
opponents, such as the pension funds, which look at these
matters seriously and know this idea is completely ludicrous.”  Rival Stances  The pension funds will block any proposal that hurts their
assets and forces them to reduce retirement payments,  Hrafn Magnusson , the managing director of the Icelandic Pension Funds
Association, said in an Oct. 14 interview.  The Interest Group of the Homes, which represents
households demanding debt relief, said lenders should write off
as much as 220 billion kronur ($1.95 billion) in mortgages to
help the 39 percent of homeowners who are technically insolvent.  The debt reduction would wipe out the impact of consumer
price increases on the inflation-linked debt, according to
Fridrik O. Fridriksson, chairman of the group.  Prices soared 41 percent from January 2007 through
September this year,  Statistics Iceland  says. Real wages fell
10.1 percent from the beginning of 2007 through August this
year, the office said, citing the latest available data.  Real disposable incomes slumped 20.3 percent last year, the
central bank  estimates . House prices, adjusting for inflation,
have slumped 34 percent in the capital Reykjavik since an
October 2007 peak, the central bank said in August.  ‘Questionable’  Sigurdardottir said her government hasn’t given up on
broader debt relief to help struggling families.  “There are different variations of a general write-down,
which are currently being looked into,” she told reporters
yesterday. “Some kind of a step-by-step reduction of debts,
depending on debt levels, and less when debts are lower.”  Sigurdardottir “is definitely planning on implementing
measures for the group that’s facing the most financial
difficulties,” Kristinsson, said. “However, it’s questionable
how willing she was to seriously look into the idea of a flat
reduction of loans.”  The government agreed to allow home owners to walk away
from their debt after two years. That proposal was presented to
lawmakers and is being discussed this week, Sigurdardottir said.
She has also promised to extend for five months a moratorium on
foreclosures due to expire in October, a move that breaches part
of the loan agreement with the International Monetary Fund.  The premier on Oct. 8 said her government wouldn’t
“allow” the IMF, which is leading the island’s $4.6 billion
loan, to block efforts to address home owner grievances.  Banking Background  Iceland’s banks are state-controlled successors to the
failed lenders that brought down the economy two years ago. The
resolution committees of Kaupthing Bank hf and Glitnir Bank hf
agreed on behalf of creditors to take stakes in the new lenders,
Arion Bank hf and Islandsbanki hf, to cover part of their
claims. Creditors of Kaupthing, Glitnir and Landsbanki Islands
hf are owed as much as $86 billion in total.  A write down of about $2 billion is equivalent to about 8
percent of total assets at Iceland’s three biggest banks, their
2009 balance sheets show.  Iceland, which is already ranked “junk” at Fitch Ratings,
also risks putting its credit grade under pressure if it
proceeds with debt relief, according to Moody’s Investors
Service.  “I think the government is very aware that its option to
pick up the bill again is limited,” said Moody’s analyst
Kathrin Muehlbronner, in an Oct. 14 interview. “Iceland’s
current position has more downsides than upsides.”  Moody’s ranks Iceland’s foreign debt Baa3, the lowest
investment grade. The rating carries a negative outlook.
Standard & Poor’s also ranks the island one level above junk at
BBB-.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar Valdimarsson  in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  