-- Islamic Development Bank Sukuk Said to Yield Up to 50 Points Over Midswaps
-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2010-10-19T09:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/idb-5-year-islamic-bond-said-to-yield-40-to-50-basis-points-over-midswaps.html
Islamic Development Bank’s five-year
Islamic bonds may be priced to yield between 40 basis points and
50 basis points more than the benchmark midswap rate, three
people familiar with the plan said.  The dollar-denominated sukuk may be priced tomorrow, said 
two of the people, who declined to be identified as the terms 
of the deal aren’t set.  CIMB Holdings Bhd. , Citigroup Inc. ,
 HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Standard Chartered Plc  are managing 
the sale, two people familiar with the plan said Oct. 4.  Persian Gulf borrowers sold $9.4 billion of bonds in the
three months until the end of September, the most since the
fourth quarter of 2009 when sales totaled $16.1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Qatar Islamic Bank SAQ 
sold $750 million of five-year Islamic bonds on Sept. 30. The
Dubai government last month raised $1.25 billion in its first
bond sale since the Dubai World debt crisis.  The Jeddah-based multilateral lender plans to sell $1
billion of five-, seven- and 10-year Islamic bonds in the fourth
quarter under its $3.5 billion medium-term note program to fund
development projects in its member countries, Vice President
Abdul-Aziz al-Hinai said on Aug. 24. The bonds will be listed in
London and Kuala Lumpur.  The IDB, which has 56 member countries including Egypt,
Saudi Arabia and Turkey, is financing up to $8 billion of
projects in 2010, al-Hinai said. The proceeds from the sukuk
will be used to mostly finance infrastructure development of $3
billion to $3.5 billion, projects that “are highly needed for
the growth of our member countries,” he said. The bank is rated
the AAA, the highest rating at Standard & Poor’s and Aaa, the
highest at Moody’s Investors Service.  Islamic finance transactions are based on the exchange of
asset flows rather than interest, to comply with the religion’s
shariah principles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net  or
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shanthy Nambiar at 
 snambiar1@bloomberg.net  