-- Impala Platinum's Growth Hindered by `Unrealistic' Valuations, CEO Says
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-10-19T16:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/impala-platinum-s-growth-is-hindered-by-unrealistic-valuations-ceo-says.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. , the
second-largest producer of the metal, said unrealistic prices
for the few assets it’s interested in buying are curbing efforts
to grow its business and boost output through acquisitions.  Chief Executive Officer  David Brown  is disheartened by the
“unrealistic expectations about value,” he said today in an
interview. Brown’s bid this month to buy the Bafokeng Rasimone
Platinum Mine venture was vetoed by part-owner Anglo Platinum
Ltd., which said it wasn’t in the interest of its shareholders.  “It was a disappointment that we couldn’t get Anglo over
the line,” he said in Johannesburg. Even junior mine operators
with attractive resources “have unrealistic expectations”
about the value of their assets, Brown said.  Impala plans 20 billion rand ($2.9 billion) of projects to
help boost platinum output to 2.1 million ounces a year by 2014,
from 1.74 million ounces in the year ended June 30, to take
advantage of rising prices. Platinum for immediate delivery has
gained 25 percent in London in the past 12 months, and was
trading at $1,679 an ounce by 5 p.m. in the city.  Anglo Platinum, the largest producer of the metal, this
month rejected a deal that would have combined the Bafokeng
nation’s Rasimone mine, in South Africa’s Northwest province,
with Impala’s largest mine,  Niall Carroll , chief executive
officer of Royal Bafokeng Holdings Ltd., said on Oct. 12. The
mine was also part owned by Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd.  Largest Mining IPO  Carroll’s company was supportive of Impala’s offer, which
valued the Rasimone venture at just below 20 billion rand,
almost double the amount Royal Bafokeng Platinum is now seeking
in an initial public offering, he said on Oct. 13.  Anglo Platinum vetoed the proposal because it wasn’t in the
best long-term interests of its shareholders and didn’t fit its
business strategy. The Rasimone venture is 67 percent held by
Royal Bafokeng Platinum and Anglo Platinum owns the rest.  Royal Bafokeng Platinum will proceed with a plan to list in
Johannesburg on Nov. 8 in South Africa’s largest initial public
offering in the mining industry in at least 16 years.  Impala and Anglo Platinum, along with Royal Bafokeng,
produce almost all of their metal in South Africa, which has the
world’s richest platinum reserves.  Platinum, used in jewelry and anti-pollution devices in
cars, may trade at between $1,500 and $1,700 an ounce in the
next 6 to 12 months, Brown said today. “We’re seeing
significant investment,” making up for demand from industry
that’s “still challenging,” he said. Palladium may trade
between $600 and $700 an ounce in the next 6 to 12 months, while
rhodium prices are expected to remain “stable,” Brown said.  Impala fell 2 rand, or 1 percent, to 193 rand by the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg, cutting the 12-month gain to 21 percent.
 Anglo Platinum  declined 8.01 rand, or 1.2 percent, to 687 rand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  