-- India to Step Up Asset Sales in Next Six Months as Investor Appetite Grows
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-10-19T12:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/india-to-step-up-asset-sales-in-next-six-months-as-investor-appetite-grows.html
India plans to step up share sales
in the next six months and offer stakes in seven companies
including Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s second-biggest refiner,
said Sumit Bose, the top bureaucrat in charge of asset sales.  Sale of shares in Power Grid Corp. of India Ltd., Manganese
Ore (India) Ltd., Shipping Corp. of India Ltd., and Hindustan
Copper Ltd. will be completed by December, Bose, the
disinvestment secretary, told reporters in New Delhi today.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government plans to raise
400 billion rupees ($9 billion) from asset sales in the year
through March and cut the budget deficit to 5.5 percent of gross
domestic product, a three-year low. Investor appetite for local
shares has surged in 2010, evidenced by a record $24 billion of
inflows into equities since January.  Coal India Ltd.,  the world’s biggest producer of the fuel,
received bids for all the shares being offered to institutional
and retail investors, according to the National Stock Exchange’s
 website.  The government is selling a 10 percent stake in the
company. The offer opened Oct. 18 and closes Oct. 21. India aims
to raise 151 billion rupees from the sale.  The government will next sell shares in Power Grid, followed
by sales in  Indian Oil,  Oil and Natural Gas Corp. and Steel
Authority of India Ltd. between January and March, Bose said.  Indian Oil will invite bids from merchant bankers in the
coming weeks to advice on the sale, Bose said. The Indian Oil
share offer may fetch about 190 billion rupees, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  