-- India Cooking Oil Imports May Slump as Prices Surge
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2010-10-19T10:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/india-cooking-oil-imports-may-slump-as-palm-oil-prices-surge-patel-says.html
Cooking oil imports by India, the
biggest user after  China , may tumble this month, likely pushing
palm oil prices lower, after a jump in futures to a 26-month
peak made foreign supplies more expensive than locally sold oils.  Purchases may decline 36 percent to 600,000 metric tons in
October, from 942,257 tons in September, Govindlal G. Patel,
managing partner at  GG Patel & Nikhil Research Co. , said in an
interview. The country is the largest buyer of palm oil, which
represents about 80 percent of edible-oil shipments.  “People are not buying, as global prices are high and
there is disparity,” Patel, 71, who has been trading oilseeds
and vegetable oils for more than four decades, said by phone
yesterday. “Global prices are higher than local prices.”  Declining imports by  India  may lift reserves in  Malaysia 
amid an expected jump in production, likely ending a rally in
prices. Palm oil reached a 26-month high last week after the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said the nation’s soybean output may
be lower than earlier forecast. Palm and soybean oils are direct
substitutes for use in food and biofuels.  India’s palm oil imports from Malaysia, the second-biggest
producer, dropped 21 percent in the first 15 days of this month,
compared with the same period in September, according to Societe
Generale de Surveillance, an independent surveyor.  Prices of palm and soybean oils rose today in  Mumbai  amid
concern a “huge” reduction in imports will cut inventory and
strain supplies during Diwali, Chowda Reddy, an analyst at JRG
Wealth Management Ltd., said by phone.  Landed Cost  Crude  palm oil  for delivery in November rose as much as 1.2
percent to 434.50 rupees per 10 kilograms on the Multi Commodity
Exchange of India in Mumbai. Refined soybean oil climbed as much
as 1.3 percent to 526.85 rupees per 10 kilograms on the National
Commodity & Derivatives Exchange Ltd.  Imported crude palm oil costs about 450 rupees, compared
with the local rate of 429 rupees, said Reddy. Imported crude
soybean oil is 496 rupees, compared with 484 rupees, he said.  “The domestic price of soybeans will soften in the next
month” as the new crop is harvested this month, he said.  Palm oil output in Malaysia will probably rise this month
after production dropped in September as religious holidays cut
the number of working days.  Vegetable oil stockpiles in India, which overtook China
last year the biggest palm oil buyer, were at 1.5 million tons
on Oct. 1, from 1.38 million tons a month earlier, as traders
built inventory to meet festival demand, the Solvent Extractors’
 Association of India  said on Oct. 15. The peak season for edible
oils consumption began in August with Ramadan and concludes with
the Diwali holiday on Nov. 5.  Imports of crude palm oil by India surged to 588,618 tons
last month from 544,091 tons a year earlier, while imports of
soybean oil climbed to 189,930 tons from 110,205 tons as its
premium over palm oil narrowed, the association said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  