-- Indonesia Trailing Malaysia in Sukuk on Budget Incentives: Islamic Finance
-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-10-19T08:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/indonesia-trailing-malaysia-in-sukuk-on-budget-incentives-islamic-finance.html
Indonesia is under pressure from
banks to match tax breaks and product offerings announced by
Malaysia last week to catch up in developing Islamic finance.  “The government needs to play a more active role,”  Andi Buchari , a director at  PT Bank Muamalat Indonesia , the nation’s
oldest Islamic bank, said in a telephone interview from Jakarta
yesterday. “We need more incentives, things such as a tax
holiday, or perhaps, an incentive for people to put their money
in Shariah banks.”  Malaysia has the largest market for sukuk and is a global
hub for the Islamic finance industry that manages $1 trillion of
 assets . The government will cut taxes on Shariah-compliant
transactions next year to promote “innovation in Islamic
securities,” Prime Minister  Najib Razak  said in his Oct. 15
budget speech.  Indonesia, which has the world’s biggest Muslim population
at 192 million, had 75 trillion rupiah ($8.4 billion) of
Shariah-compliant banking assets in 2009, or about 3 percent of
the total, according to the central bank. The amount compares
with 337.6 billion ringgit ($109 billion) in Malaysia, or 20
percent of banking assets, the Finance Ministry said in the
2010-2011 economic report released in Kuala Lumpur last week. In
Malaysia, 60 percent of the  28 million people  are Muslim.  Auction Failures  Indonesia failed to sell all of the government sukuk it
offered in an auction on Oct. 5, even after suspending sales for
two months because investors demanded higher yields than the
government was willing to offer. The government raised 382
billion rupiah, less than the targeted 1 trillion rupiah, the
12th consecutive sale that fell short of plans this year.  Investors sought yields as high as 9.37 percent for the
five-year sukuk and 8.5 percent for the 10-year notes, according
to the Indonesian central bank’s  website . The government raised
3 trillion rupiah from an auction of conventional bonds on Sept.
28 with yields of 7.3 percent for the six-year notes and 7.72
percent for the 11-year securities.  “Indonesia presents exciting prospects for the Islamic
banking business,” Mudassir Amray, head of Asia Pacific Islamic
banking at Citigroup Inc. in Hong Kong, said in an e-mail on Oct.
15. “With the largest Muslim population in the region and gross
domestic product of over $670 billion, the growth potential is
enormous.”  Global sales of sukuk fell 23 percent to $12 billion in
2010 from the same period a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance totaled $20.2 billion last year,
up from $14.1 billion in 2008 and was a record $31 billion in
2007, the data show.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold Indonesia’s dollar
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s has narrowed 24 basis points, or
0.24 percentage point, to 24 since the start of the third
quarter, according to prices from the Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc.  Shariah-compliant bonds returned 12.5 percent this year,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , while
debt in developing markets gained 16 percent, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  The difference between the average yield for emerging-
market sukuk and the London interbank offered rate has narrowed
22 basis points this month to 351, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index .  Malaysia’s Najib said last week tax cuts will apply to
certain types of bai bithaman ajil and murabahah contracts. Bai
bithaman is a product with an agreed profit rate, while
murabahah is a transaction involving the sale and purchase of
goods in which payment is deferred. The government will start
selling debt to individual investors that pays asset returns to
comply with the religion’s ban on interest, he said.  Tax Incentive  Malaysia in the past year has issued permits to global
investors including Aberdeen Asset Management Plc and Franklin
Templeton Investments to start Islamic fund management. The
funds, which will invest in ringgit and non-ringgit denominated
assets, will be exempt from paying taxes until 2016, according
to the central bank. Sukuk sold in Malaysia have reached $83.5
billion, accounting for 65 percent of the global total,
according to the ministry’s report.  To spur demand for sukuk, Indonesia may negotiate rates
with potential investors in the so-called book-building process,
 Dahlan Siamat , director of the Islamic financing unit at the
Ministry of Finance, said in a telephone interview yesterday. It
will also widen the range of assets from which returns are paid,
in compliance with Islamic law that bans interest payments.  “In addition to auctions, we are considering issuing sukuk
through book-building,” Dahlan said from Jakarta. “Government-
linked companies can propose projects to be funded with sukuk,”
allowing that to be used as the underlying asset for the debt,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net . 