-- Inflation-Bond Premiums Rise as Policy Makers Hold Rates: Canada Credit
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-10-19T14:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/inflation-bond-premiums-rise-as-policy-makers-meet-on-rates-canada-credit.html
Canada’s real-return bonds are
signaling faster inflation as the nation’s central bank keeps
its target interest rate unchanged amid concern that the global
economic recovery is faltering.  The breakeven rate on 10-year inflation-protected bonds, a
measure of what investors predict for average consumer price
inflation during that period, touched 2.132 percent yesterday,
the highest level since June 3. Canada’s inflation rate will
climb toward the central bank’s 2 percent target on rising
agricultural prices and tuitions, as well as fewer discounts for
clothing, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a report.  Both 10-year and 30-year breakeven rates rose the most last
week since December after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled more so-called quantitative easing was likely
as the U.S. unemployment rate refuses to budge from near the
highest in 2 1/2 decades. Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
left the overnight target rate at 1 percent today, after three
successive increases since June, matching the forecast of all 18
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “The Bank of Canada on hold could mean the inflation
premium, in the long-term, goes up,”  Suvrat Prakash , an
interest-rate strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, wrote
via e-mail. “QE2 is stoking some fear about long-term inflation
risks.”  Touching Parity  Canada’s dollar last week touched parity with its U.S.
counterpart for the first time since April on the prospect of
another round of easing in the U.S., adding to pressure on
exporters and giving Carney another reason to stay on hold,
Prakash said. The Fed contemplating QE “adds to the currency
risk,” he said.  The spread of U.S. breakevens over the Canadian touched 9
basis points on Oct. 14, the most since November, and ended
yesterday 4 basis points below. The U.S. 10-year rate surpassed
Canada’s last week for the first time since February.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of corporate rather than federal debt
held steady yesterday at 142 basis points, or 1.42 percentage
points. Spreads were as wide this year as 154 basis points in
June. Relative corporate yields in the U.S. stood at 182 basis
points, and at 168 basis points for a broad index of global
corporate bonds, the Merrill Lynch data as of Oct. 15 showed.  Corporate Returns  Corporate bonds in Canada have made investors 0.2 percent
this month, according to the Merrill Lynch data, compared with
0.16 percent for U.S. corporate bonds and a loss of less than
0.1 percent for global corporates. Canadian corporate yields
ended yesterday at 3.61 percent, compared with U.S. corporate
yields at 3.62 percent and 3.43 percent on Oct. 15 for global
corporates.  Canada’s provincial bond market, with about C$458 billion
($450 billion) outstanding, yielded 54 basis points over federal
benchmarks, unchanged from last week. Spreads were as wide as 71
basis points in May. Merrill’s index of Canadian provincial
bonds is up 0.2 percent this month, compared with the 0.1
percent decline in its index of Canadian government bonds.
Yields on the provincial index rose to 2.95 percent yesterday.
The Standard & Poor’s TSX Composite, the nation’s primary stock
gauge, is up 2.4 percent in October.  Ontario paid 72 basis points over similar maturity
government bonds to sell C$750 million of 4.2 percent bonds
maturing in June 2020, bringing to total outstanding to C$7.35
billion.  Real Returns  The Canadian 30-year breakeven rate, which ended yesterday
at 2.28 percent, was 30 basis points lower than the U.S. rate on
Oct. 14, the most since June 2009.  Given the historic average level of 2.3 percent for
Canadian 30-year breakevens, declines to 2.15 percent
“represent buying opportunities,”  Mohammed Ahmed , a rates
strategist with the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, wrote
via e-mail. Declines in the 10-year rate to last week’s level of
1.85 “offer significant value. We see limited cause to question
the bank’s ability to achieve its 2 percent target.”  Breakeven rates measure the difference in yield between
inflation-linked and nominal bonds. Canada’s real-return bond
market has about C$36 billion outstanding.  Bank of Canada policy makers said today any further
tightening would be “carefully considered” as the economy will
take an extra year to reach its full potential. Canada’s
currency fell as China’s central bank unexpectedly raised
interest rates, damping demand for growth-related assets.  Prices Rise  Canada’s annual inflation rate accelerated to 1.9 percent
in September, from 1.7 percent the previous month, according to
the median of 14 estimates compiled by Bloomberg News before the
data is released on Oct. 22. Bank of America expects the rate to
reach 3.5 percent by the middle of next year.  Canada’s real return bonds, which pay interest on principal
that’s tied to the consumer price index, have gained 2.5 percent
during the past month, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data. That’s less than the 4.1 percent that U.S.
inflation-linked bonds have returned. A global index of
inflation-linked bonds returned 2.3 percent, according to the
Merrill Lynch data.  Canadian breakevens “are too narrow, given the dovish and
accommodative Bank of Canada stance,” said  Sheryl King , head of
Canada economics at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Toronto.
“We see some limited upside to breakevens over the next couple
of months, to a more normal 2.3 percent to 2.35 percent.”  Underlying Yields  The Canadian 4.25 percent real-return bond due in December
2021 yielded 0.77 percent yesterday as the price of the
benchmark 10-year inflation-linked bonds rose 63 cents to
C$137.04. The yield on the underlying, or nominal, government
10-year bonds, which mature in June 2020, was 2.76 percent. The
 breakeven , which measures the difference between the two yields
and adjusted for the different maturity dates, stood at 2.11
percent yesterday.  Expectations that the Fed will announce more monetary
stimulus, rather than the rising cost of raw materials, are
driving inflation expectations higher, according to  Eric Lascelles , chief economics and rates strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit.  “The market’s interest seems to be on monetary policy, not
metals,” Lascelles, based in Toronto, wrote in an e-mail. “The
impact of commodity prices is taking a backseat to expectations
that the U.S. will shortly begin to crank the printing press.”  Gold reached a record $1,388.10 an ounce on Oct. 14 as the
U.S. dollar headed to the lowest level since January after
Bernanke said additional monetary stimulus may be warranted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  