-- Australia Won’t Cut Mining Tax as State Royalties Rise
-- B y   M a r i o n   R a e
-- 2010-10-19T23:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/mining-tax-won-t-be-cut-as-state-royalties-rise-resources-minister-says.html
Australian Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson , responding to reports that  BHP Billiton Ltd.  may walk
away from a tax deal brokered by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  in
July, said higher state royalties won’t be offset by cuts to the
30 percent levy on iron ore and coal.  “The government’s position on this issue is clear,”
Ferguson said in an e-mail today after the Australian newspaper
reported BHP could pull out of the agreement. State royalty
rates will be credited under the planned tax at levels that
applied, or were due to apply, on May 2, he said.  Mining companies face a bigger tax burden after the
resources tax kicks in if state governments raise royalty rates,
meaning companies would pay extra in the absence of compensation
from the government for the higher state rate.  “One would expect there would be more conversation between
both parties,”  Albert Hung , who helps manage A$1.7 billion at
Alleron Investment Management said by phone from Sydney. “But at
the end of the day if the government said, that is the way to go,
what will you do?”  Gillard pledged in July to set the mining levy at 30
percent in a deal signed with BHP,  Rio Tinto Group  and Xstrata
Plc, watering down a proposed 40 percent resources “super
profits” tax and ending a standoff with the mining companies.  BHP may scrap their agreement on the mining tax because of
the government’s refusal to compromise during recent talks with
industry, the Australian newspaper reported today, citing an
unidentified person familiar with the matter.  Support For Levy  Gillard, who clinched a deal with independent lawmakers and
a Greens Party member to form a minority government after her
Labor Party lost its majority at the Aug. 21 election, is yet to
win lawmakers’ support for the levy. The tax is yet to be put
into law.  BHP, Rio and rival coal and iron ore companies will pay
A$10.5 billion ($10.2 billion) more in tax in the first two
years of the levy from mid-2012, according to government
estimates.  BHP spokeswoman  Amanda Buckley  and Rio spokesman  Bruce Tobin  weren’t immediately available to comment when contacted
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at   mrae3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  