-- Minmetals Agrees to Pay $1.85 Billion for Parent's Australian, Laos Mines
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 2010-10-19T10:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/minmetals-agrees-to-pay-1-85-billion-for-parent-s-australian-laos-mines.html
Minmetals Resources Ltd. , a Hong
Kong-listed unit of China’s biggest metals trader, agreed to pay
$1.85 billion in cash and shares for some of its state-owned
parent’s mines in Australia and Laos.  The purchase of the assets belonging to MMG, a unit of
China Minmetals Group, includes the Century zinc mine and
Rosebery zinc, copper and lead mine in Australia as well as the
Sepon copper and gold mine in Laos, Minmetals said today in a
statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange.  “This transaction will give us access to capital markets
through a listing on the exchange,” said  Matthew Foran , MMG
manager for community and stakeholder relations, by phone from
Melbourne. “From MMG’s perspective, this will be a tremendous
boost for access to Asian capital markets.”  The deal will allow investors to own a share in Century,
the world’s largest zinc mine, for the first time since  OZ
Minerals Ltd.  sold it and the other assets for $1.35 billion in
2009 to reduce debt during the global financial crisis.
Minmetals, which trades metals and distributes aluminum and
copper products, will be led by MMG Chief Executive Officer
 Andrew Michelmore  as part of the deal.  Minmetals Resources fell 7.2 percent to HK$5.83 at the
close of trading in Hong Kong. The purchase price includes $100
million in cash and the balance is in shares and convertible
securities, the company said.  Profit Contribution  “It enables the company to gain considerable profit and
cash-flow contribution,”  Li Fuli , senior vice president of
China Minmetals Corp., told reporters at a press conference in
Hong Kong today.  MMG had earnings before interest tax, depreciation and
amortization of $404 million for the six months ended June 30,
according to the statement.  The deal is subject to Minmetals’ shareholder approval with
a likely date in late November, Foran said. MMG Chief Financial
Officer  David Lamont  will also become the CFO of Minmetals. Both
Michelmore and Lamont will remain based in Australia, Foran said.  Minmetals Resources will be seeking a mandate from
shareholders to sell as much as $1.6 billion worth of shares
after the deal to help repay loans incurred for the acquisition
and to fund the development of the mines, Chief Financial
Officer  Morison Chan  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 