-- Intel Computer Users Press for Class-Action Status in Antitrust Lawsuit
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-10-19T17:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/intel-computer-users-press-for-class-action-status-in-antitrust-lawsuit.html
Intel Corp.  faces objections to a
court official’s recommendation that computer users be denied
group status in their lawsuit accusing the world’s biggest
chipmaker of antitrust violations.  Special Master  Vincent J. Poppiti  wrote in a July 28 report
to U.S. District Judge  Leonard P. Stark  in Wilmington, Delaware,
that purchasers of computers with Intel microprocessors “have
not established that they will be able to demonstrate an
antitrust violation through common proof.”  In response to Poppiti’s recommendation,  J. Clayton Athey ,
a plaintiffs’ lawyer seeking class-action status for the case,
said Oct. 15 in court papers that “the alternative to class
certification is millions of individual actions.”  He wrote that the plaintiffs “have also set forth common
evidence” that “as a result of its anticompetitive conduct,
Intel overcharges for its microprocessors resulting in inflated
PC prices to consumers.”  Athey said that “to the extent there are differences among
class members as to the size of their purchases, these
differences relate only to damages” and can be handled during a
later phase of the trial.  The computer purchasers’ case was a companion lawsuit to
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. ’s 2005 complaint alleging antitrust
violations by rival Intel.  Intel agreed last November to pay Advanced Micro
$1.5 billion to settle that case, which claimed Intel controlled
the microprocessor market by providing discounts to customers to
avoid AMD products.  ‘Correct’ Conclusion  “We believe the special master was correct to start off
with,” an Intel spokesman,  Chuck Mulloy , said in a phone
interview.  Intel, based in Santa Clara, California, rose 15 cents to
$19.34 at 1:24 p.m.in Nasdaq Stock Market trading in New York.  The lead case is Paul v. Intel Corp., 05-cv-485, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian King  in San Francisco
at   ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  