-- Intel to Spend Up to $8 Billion on Factory Upgrades
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-10-19T14:31:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/intel-to-spend-up-to-8-billion-on-factory-upgrades.html
Intel Corp. , the world’s biggest
chipmaker, said it will spend between $6 billion and $8 billion
on U.S. factory upgrades, spurring the creation of 800 to 1,000
manufacturing jobs.  Plants in Oregon and Arizona will be renovated and a new
research and development facility will be built, Intel said
today in a statement. The plans will also create as many as
8,000 construction jobs, the company said. The initiative will
be carried out over “several years,” Intel spokesman Tom
Beermann said in an e-mail.  Intel, based in Santa Clara, California, has manufacturing
facilities at three sites in the U.S., including New Mexico, as
well as in Ireland and Israel. The company is also building its
first production facility in China. Intel, which is vying with
 Samsung Electronics Co.  to be the industry’s biggest  spender  on
production, budgeted $5.2 billion for plants and equipment in
2010.  Semiconductor companies are locked in a race to shrink the
line widths on the circuits that give computer chips their
function. Intel’s budget will be spent on so-called 22 nanometer
production. A nanometer is one billionth of a meter. Reducing
line widths lowers costs and makes products more capable. Modern
semiconductor plants cost hundreds of millions of dollars to
construct and billions to equip with machinery. They run 24
hours a day, year-round.  Cash Cache  Intel fell 8 cents to $19.11 at 10:30 a.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares had lost 5.9 percent
 this year  before today.  The company’s microprocessors run more than 80 percent of
the world’s personal computers. Rival  Samsung  is the biggest
maker of memory chips. The two companies compete in the market
for memory used in mobile products such as Apple Inc.’s iPad and
iPhone.  Intel ended the third quarter with more than  $20 billion  in
cash and short-term investments after generating $3.5 billion in
cash flow from operations. That cash total doesn’t include the
two pending acquisitions it announced in the period -- the $7.68
billion purchase of McAfee Inc. and the $1.4 billion deal for
Infineon Technologies AG’s wireless-chip unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net  