-- Investors Should Cut `Frothy' China Property Stake, Gave Says
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2010-10-19T08:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/investors-should-cut-frothy-china-property-stakes-marshall-wace-says.html
Investors should reduce their stakes
in China’s property market and related industries because of
policy uncertainties,  Louis-Vincent Gave , chief executive
officer of Marshall Wace GaveKal Asia Ltd. said.  “There’s no doubt that the real estate in China, it is
getting to very frothy valuations,” Gave told the Hedge Funds
Asia Summit hosted by Bloomberg Link in Hong Kong today.
“Because there’s so much policy risk at this stage, you need to
maintain a very diversified portfolio.”
       Property prices  in China rose 9.1 percent in September
from a year earlier, underscoring the need for further
government curbs to discourage speculation and prevent asset
bubbles in the fastest-growing major economy. Policy makers
since April have tightened down-payment requirements, suspended
loans for third-home purchases and pledged to speed trials of a
property tax that may be rolled out nationwide.  The Chinese government will impose further policy curbs on
the property market to reduce social tensions that could arise
from increasing home prices, Gave said. Marshall Wace GaveKal is
a venture between London-based hedge-fund manager Marshall Wace
LLP and Hong Kong-based research provider and money manager
GaveKal Holdings Ltd.  Chinese policy makers will face “important” asset bubble
concerns in coming years,  Peng Wensheng , chief economist at
China International Capital Corp., said at the same conference.  High Savings  China may start to trial a property tax early next year in
Shanghai and Chongqing, Caixin Online reported yesterday, citing
an unidentified person close to the finance ministry.  A high saving rate and few investment channels available to
investors in China are contributing to surging property prices,
Gave said. Between 2002 and 2007, China’s saving rate jumped
nearly 10 percentage points to 37.9 percent of gross domestic
product, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said in a February report.  “Right now the risk in the housing market is in terms of
capital allocation,”  Michael Klibaner , head of China research
at Jones Lang Lasalle Inc., the world’s second-largest
commercial real estate broker, told the conference. “What
happens when Chinese investors have other things to do with
their money?”  Harvard University professor Kenneth Rogoff said in July
China’s property market had begun a “collapse” that would hit
the nation’s banking system. Fund managers including James
Chanos and Marc Faber also have warned of a crash if a property
bubble isn’t averted.  It “doesn’t mean the market will necessarily crash,” even
if there are alternative investment opportunities available to
Chinese investors because “not everyone is going to be willing
to sell their own apartments,” said Klibaner.  Huge Capabilities  China’s economy, which overtook Japan to become the world’s
second largest in the second quarter, will grow 9.6 percent next
year, four times the U.S. pace and six times the euro area, the
International Monetary Fund estimates.  “The Chinese government has huge capability, at least in
the short term, in making the economy move the way it is,”
 Bernard Yeung , the dean of the National University of
Singapore’s Business School, told the conference.  China’s  growth  slowed to 10.3 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, down from the 11.9 percent pace in
the first three months of this year, after Premier  Wen Jiabao 
took measures to curb credit growth and cool the property market.
Third-quarter figures will be released on Oct. 21.  In the next few years, China will see “lots of reform” in
both the fiscal and financial sectors because of the nation’s
political cycle, Gave said.  Party Reshuffle  In contrast to the Western world, Chinese leaders “have
the most political power” as they enter their last few years in
office, Gave said. “Because they get to appoint the successors.
As a result, they have got all the cards in their hands to
embrace reforms that China needs to do.”  President  Hu Jintao  and Premier Wen’s administration is
expected to step down in a ruling party reshuffle in 2012. China
yesterday named Vice President  Xi Jinping  to the highest
military body, solidifying his status as the country’s leader-
in-waiting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  