-- Iran Grants Consular Access to Two Detained Germans, Foreign Ministry Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-10-19T13:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/iran-grants-consular-access-to-two-detained-germans-foreign-ministry-says.html
Iran said it has granted consular
access to two Germans detained this month and accused of posing
as reporters to gather information on a woman sentenced to death
by stoning.  “Talks have been conducted with German officials and it is
now possible for them to have consular access,” Iranian Foreign
Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said today when asked
about the status of the two detainees during a news conference
aired live by state television.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said on Oct. 12 that Germany’s
Foreign Ministry was working to free the detainees. Iran’s
prosecutor general, Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Ejei, has said they
admitted falsely claiming to be journalists and that they had
ties to “hostile elements” outside Iran.  The German Foreign Ministry did not comment today on the
identity of the two Germans or on media reports that they are
journalists. Iran’s decision to allow consular access is “a
positive signal, although the visit hasn’t happened yet,” a
Foreign Ministry spokesman in Berlin said by phone today,
speaking on condition of anonymity under ministry rules.  Iran’s judiciary said the two were arrested on Oct. 10
after trying to interview the son of Sakineh Mohammadi-Ashtiani.
She was sentenced to death by stoning after her 2006 conviction
for adultery and the murder of her husband, prompting an
international outcry. Iran has condemned the media attention and
the “politicization” of Mohammadi-Ashtiani’s case.  Tourist Visas  The two German nationals “have committed an offense,”
Mehmanparast said in Tehran. They “entered the country with
tourist visas and did journalistic work.”  Foreign journalists need a press visa and accreditation
from the authorities to work in Iran. Iranians working in Iran
for foreign media companies also require accreditation.  The  International Committee Against Stoning , a campaigning
group, said the two Germans are journalists and were arrested in
the northwestern city of Tabriz while in a meeting with
Mohammadi-Ashtiani’s son, Sajjad Ghaderzadeh, and a lawyer,
Houtan Kian.  Germany’s Spiegel magazine said one of the detainees is a
reporter who wrote for  Bild  and Bild am Sonntag, focusing on
local Berlin stories and scandals in hospitals. The other is a
freelance photographer who mostly took pictures of musicians and
celebrities, the magazine  said yesterday  on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Beirut at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maher Chmaytelli at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net . 