-- Ireland Is Said to Name Cardinal, Irish Life as Preferred Bidders for EBS
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-10-19T10:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/ireland-is-said-to-name-cardinal-irish-life-as-preferred-bidders-for-ebs.html
Ireland’s government plans to name
Irish Life & Permanent Plc and an investor group led by Cardinal
Asset Management as the two preferred bidders for EBS Building
Society, the lender rescued in May, two people familiar with the
talks said.  An announcement may be made as soon as today, said the
people, who declined to be identified before an announcement.
Cardinal, the Dublin-based investment firm led by financiers
Nigel McDermott and  Nick Corcoran , is bidding with U.S.
leveraged buyout firms Carlyle Group and WL Ross & Co.  EBS needs to raise about a total of 785 million euros ($1.1
billion) to meet capital requirements set by the country’s
financial regulator. The government, which has already injected
350 million euros into EBS, has pledged to provide the remainder
needed if it does not secure outside investment.  A spokesman for the Department of Finance declined to
comment. EBS spokesman Gerry O’Sullivan wasn’t immediately
available for comment. Irish Life spokesman Ray Gordon wasn’t
immediately available for comment, while James Morrissey, a
spokesman for Cardinal, declined to comment.  Ireland’s government was forced to rescue the country’s
financial system after a halving in real estate prices caused
bad debts to surge. The state also controls Anglo Irish Bank
Corp. and Irish Nationwide Building Society and is poised to
take a majority stake in Allied Irish Banks Plc, which needs to
raise an additional 7 billion euros.  WL Ross & Co. Chief Executive Officer Wilbur Ross said on
Sept. 15 that he was “optimistic” his bid to buy EBS would
succeed, and the group may buy more distressed Irish lenders.
Irish Life is looking to merge its banking unit, Permanent TSB,
with EBS, according to three people familiar with the matter.  J.C. Flowers & Co., the firm started by former Goldman
Sachs bankers Christopher Flowers, and Doughty Hanson & Co., had
also been bidding separately for EBS, two people with knowledge
of the talks said on Sept. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  