-- Irish Pension Rule Change to Spur Domestic Bond Buying Spree: Euro Credit
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-10-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/irish-pension-rule-change-to-spur-domestic-bond-buying-spree-euro-credit.html
Ireland’s bond market, the third-
worst performing in the euro region this year, may get a boost
as the nation’s pension funds lobby for a rule change that would
increase their purchases of domestic debt.  So-called defined benefit pension plans guarantee their
payments by buying annuities that typically invest in top-rated
German bunds, which trade more frequently than their Irish
counterparts. Managers overseeing about 72 billion euros ($101
billion) want the government to let them switch to annuities
that can buy lower-rated local securities, and to cut pension
payments in the event of a default on those investments.  “One of the major problems in Ireland is that 85 percent
of the government bond market is held by foreign investors,”
said  Jens Peter Soerensen , a Copenhagen-based analyst at Danske
Bank A/S. “There is no significant domestic investor base to
support the Irish market.”  Investors shunned Irish debt this year, driving the 10-year
 yield premium  to bunds last month to a euro-era record of 450
basis points, as the government estimated that rescuing its
banking system may cost as much as 50 billion euros. The bonds
have  lost 1.7 percent  this year, indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies
show. Only Greek and Portugal’s debt performed worse, falling
9.8 percent and 3 percent respectively.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said last week that Ireland
can “absolutely” avoid a bailout from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund. The yield spread between Irish and
German 10-year bonds has narrowed to 383 basis points from 429
basis points at the start of the month, leaving it more than
eight times the average of the past decade.  ‘Circuit Breaker’  “Ireland needs a circuit breaker for bond performance and
it has the resources to offer support via pension funds,” said
 Harvinder Sian , a London-based analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. “It needs to use it.”  The Irish Association of Pension Funds and Society of
Actuaries has requested a change in the type of annuity that
managers buy to ensure there’s enough money to meet promises
made to pensioners. The nation’s pensions are split between 48.4
billion euros in defined benefit plans and 23.7 billion euros
based on how much members pay in. The former own about 12.1
billion euros of bonds, 75 percent of which is in euro-
denominated government securities.  The new annuities would be priced off and invested in Irish
government bonds, rather than bunds. The shift would improve
funding for the state, said Marie Collins, head of the Irish
Association of Pension Funds, in an Oct. 13 speech in Dublin.  ‘Helping Yourself’  Before the  euro ’s introduction in 2000, 70 percent of Irish
bonds were held by local investors. The proportion has shrunk to
about 15 percent, according to Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers.
The yield on the 10-year Irish bond is 6.25 percent, compared
with 2.42 percent from German bunds.  “You are basically helping yourself and your debt office
by buying your own debt,” said Soerensen, who expects a
“quick” response from the government. “The Danes are doing
it, the Spanish started doing it in the summer and the Italians
have a huge domestic investor debt, which has helped cushion
them.”  Ireland’s government is giving “thorough consideration”
to the proposed change, Eamon O’Cuiv, the nation’s minister for
social protection, said on Oct. 13. In an interview, he said
it’s a “50-50 call” whether the pension rules will be amended.  ‘Economic Nationalism’  Philip Lane , an economics professor at Trinity College
Dublin, said altering the regulations would be “a form of
economic nationalism” that the government should resist. “Why
would Irish pensions funds be over-weight Irish government debt
when they have the universe of euro-denominated bonds
available?” he said. “The answer is they shouldn’t.”  Only  Greece ’s yield premium over German bunds is wider than
Ireland’s among the so-called euro peripherals. It was 660 basis
points on Oct. 19, compared with Portugal’s 318 basis points,
Spain’s 163 basis points and Italy’s 139 basis points.  Credit-default swaps linked to Irish debt fell to 400 basis
points yesterday, falling from 430 basis points on Oct. 8,
according to CMA prices. Swaps for Greece were at 664 basis
points, making them the most expensive in Europe.  “Ireland is seeing some buyers after panic selling, but we
think the smart thing to watch here is policy action to support
the bond market,” said Sian at RBS. “This ranges from deficit
reduction to enabling domestic pension funds to use domestic
debt more easily to everyone’s mutual advantage.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  at 
 finbarrff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  