-- Japanese 20-Year Government Bonds Slide Before Tomorrow's Sale of the Debt
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-10-20T06:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/japanese-bonds-may-rise-as-china-s-rate-increase-dims-outlook-for-equities.html
Japanese 20-year  bonds  fell for a
second day on speculation primary dealers are selling the
securities before an auction tomorrow.  The Ministry of Finance will conduct its first auction of
20-year debt since the Bank of Japan on Oct. 5 announced what it
called “comprehensive monetary easing.” The  spread  in yields
between 10- and 30-year government bonds expanded to the widest
since March 2008, signaling the impact that monetary easing is
having on investor expectations for inflation, said  Masaru Hamasaki , who helps oversee about $17 billion as chief
strategist at Toyota Asset Management Co.  “Longer-term bond yields typically start to rise when
expanded monetary easing starts to stimulate an economy,”
Tokyo-based Hamasaki said. “The longer the maturity of a bond,
the more its yield is impacted by investor speculation.”  The yield on the benchmark 20-year bond rose a basis point
to 1.76 percent as of 3:06 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading
Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.9
percent security maturing in September 2030 dropped 0.151 yen to
102.063. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The benchmark 10-year yield added half a basis point to
0.89 percent. Ten-year bond futures for December delivery dipped
0.05 to 143.64 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa told the Asahi newspaper the
central bank may expand the fund it set up to buy financial
assets if the economy worsens. The BOJ on Oct. 5 cut its key
interest rate to a range of zero to 0.1 percent and announced
the creation of the 5 trillion yen ($61.5 billion) fund to buy
assets including government debt and exchange-traded funds.  ‘Crossed the Rubicon’  “What’s significant is that the BOJ’s fund includes risk
assets for purchase,” said  Ayako Sera , who helps oversee about
$310 billion in Tokyo as a strategist at Sumitomo Trust &
Banking Co. “The bank has crossed the Rubicon.”  Japan’s government yesterday downgraded its assessment of
the economy for the first time in 20 months. The rebound is
“pausing,” the Cabinet Office said in a monthly report,
removing last month’s reference to the economy “picking up.”  China yesterday lifted interest rates for the first time
since 2007 to combat inflation.  “Large-scale monetary easing in developed nations has
increased the supply of money,” Toyota Asset’s Hamasaki said.
“A lack of attractive investments in these countries is sending
the money first to growing emerging nations, spurring their
growth and hikes in interest rates.”  The Ministry of Finance will sell 1.1 trillion yen of 20-
year debt tomorrow. Primary dealers, which are required to bid
at debt sales, often reduce holdings of bonds before auctions in
case prices drop before they can pass on the new securities to
investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  