-- Japanese Stock Futures, Australian Index Decline After China Raises Rates
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2010-10-19T23:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/japanese-stock-futures-australian-index-decline-after-china-raises-rates.html
Japanese  stock   futures  and
Australian shares fell after China, the world’s fastest-growing
major economy, unexpectedly raised its lending and deposit rates
to curb inflation.  American depositary receipts of Canon Inc., a Japanese
camera maker that gets about 80 percent of its revenue overseas,
fell 1.1 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo. Those of
Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest carmaker, slid 0.5
percent. ADRs of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s
biggest publicly traded lender, lost 0.9 percent after Barclays
Plc cut its investment rating on the stock.  BHP Billiton Ltd. ,
the world’s largest mining company and Australia’s biggest oil
producer, sank 1.4 percent today after commodity prices tumbled.  “A slowdown in the Chinese economy may slow the speed of
recovery in the global economy,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an
equities manager in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  expiring in
December closed at 9,480 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
9,525 in Singapore. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,480 in
Osaka, Japan, at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200
Index  slid 1 percent today, led by materials producers. New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.6 percent in Wellington.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 5001 Index  retreated 0.2
percent. The index lost 1.6 percent yesterday in New York, the
biggest drop since Aug. 19, amid concern banks will be forced to
buy back soured mortgages and after  Apple Inc.  forecast profit
that missed analyst estimates as supply constraints hamper sales
of the iPad computer.  China Raises Rates  China’s central bank raised one-year lending and  deposit
rate  by 25 basis points, boosting borrowing costs for the first
time since 2007. Policy makers are trying to curb lending and
prevent an asset-price bubble in a country that surpassed Japan
this year as the world’s second-largest economy.  The move comes days before finance ministers and central
bankers from the Group of 20 countries gather in South Korea to
discuss the global economy amid disagreements on whether the
yuan is undervalued.  The dollar rallied the most in two months against a basket
of currencies including the euro and yen. The yen depreciated to
as low as 81.67 against the dollar today in Tokyo, compared with
81.53 at the close of stock trading yesterday, boosting the
value of overseas income at Japanese companies when repatriated.  “The stronger dollar will benefit Japanese stocks,” Nikko
Cordial’s Nichi said.  Commodity Prices Tumble  Crude oil for November delivery sank 4.3 percent to settle
at $79.49 a barrel yesterday in New York, the steepest drop
since Feb. 4, on concern the rate increase in China will crimp
demand in the world’s biggest energy-using country.  The  London Metal Exchange Index  of six metals including
aluminum and copper lost 2.1 percent yesterday, the largest
decline since Oct. 7.  The Baltic Dry Index  of commodity-shipping
rates slid for a third consecutive day yesterday.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has increased 7.8 percent in
2010, compared with gains of 4.6 percent by the  S&P 500  and 4.5
percent by the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index . Stocks in the Asian
benchmark are valued at 14.2 times estimated  earnings , compared
with 13.9 times for the S&P and 12.2 times for the Stoxx.  Barclays cut its rating yesterday on Resona Holdings Inc.,
a Japanese bank, in addition to Mitsubishi UFJ.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Norie Kuboyama  in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
 Toshiro Hasegawa  in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 