-- J&J Third-Quarter Profit Gains on Drug, Device Sales
-- B y   E l l e n   G i b s o n
-- 2010-10-19T20:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/johnson-johnson-1-23-third-quarter-eps-tops-estimate-forecast-raised.html
Johnson & Johnson , the world’s
largest health-products company, reported third-quarter revenue
that missed analysts’ estimates as recalls of children’s
medicines hurt sales of consumer products.  Total sales fell 0.7 percent to $15 billion, missing the
$15.2 billion estimate of 16 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg. J&J
declined as much as 2.1 percent in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Sales of consumer products fell 11 percent because of the
recalls, the New Brunswick, New Jersey-based company said in a
statement today. In April, J&J’s McNeil unit withdrew more than
40 types of children’s drugs from shelves due to quality and
potency problems. The recalls and suspension of manufacturing at
the facility that made some of those medicines will reduce sales
this year by about $600 million, the company said in July.  “Weak U.S. consumer sales -- which came in $209 million
below our estimates -- could potentially signal some systemic
damage to J&J’s brand name in light of the recent McNeil recalls
and negative publicity,” said  Rick Wise , an analyst at Leerink
Swann & Co., in a note today to clients.  2010 Forecast  Net income  climbed 2.2 percent to $3.4 billion, or $1.23 a
share, from $3.35 billion, or $1.20, a year earlier, J&J said.
The company raised its 2010 earnings  forecast  to $4.70 a share
to $4.80 a share, excluding items, from a previous projection of
$4.65 to $4.75 to reflect favorable exchange rates.  The euro strengthened 8 percent against the dollar from
mid-July to mid-October, according to Wise, in an Oct. 15 note
to investors. The trend “could help offset potentially slower
market growth overall and boost” fourth-quarter earnings, he
said in the note.  Profit beat the $1.15 average  estimate  of 18 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, helped by income from the sale of the
company’s breast-care business and a lower-than-expected income-
tax rate.  ‘Growth Trends’  “Our business performance was solid” despite “a
deceleration of growth trends in overall health-care spending
related to the economy,” J&J Chief Financial Officer  Dominic Caruso  said today in a conference call with investors.  J&J fell 57 cents to $63.29 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The stock has declined 1.7 percent
this year to date.  Revenue in the pharmaceuticals division rose 4.7 percent to
$5.5 billion, helped by a 19 percent increase in sales of the
anti-inflammatory drug Remicade and a 52 percent boost in
revenue from the HIV drug Prezista.  Worldwide medical-device sales increased 1.3 percent to
$5.9 billion. Pricing pressure and lower volume restrained
growth at the DePuy unit’s joint-repair business in the U.S.,
the company said. The Cypher heart-stent commanded 15 percent of
the worldwide market, down from 21 percent in the same period
last year.  ‘Challenging Environment’  Until recently, health-care companies “only had to
navigate patent expirations and the challenges of innovation,”
 Linda Bannister , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co., said today in
a telephone interview. “Now you add on the costs of health
reform and austerity measures in Europe. It’s a challenging
environment.”  At the end of the third quarter, J&J had more than $10
billion in net cash, Caruso said, and it is looking for
“opportunities to use that cash.”  During the quarter, the drugmaker completed the $480
million acquisition of Micrus Endovascular Corp., the maker of
products to treat strokes. It also made a $2.4 billion bid to
acquire Dutch vaccine manufacturer Crucell NV, a deal expected
to close in 2011, when it will cut annual earnings an estimated
3 to 5 cents.  “The good news is, it should only get better from here,”
said  Jeff Jonas , an analyst at Gabelli & Co. Inc. in New York,
in a telephone interview yesterday. “Currency is going to help
sales, and you’ll start to get some of those children’s drugs
back on shelves. It should be increasingly positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Gibson  in New York at 
 egibson9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 