-- Juniper Networks Revenue Misses Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e
-- 2010-10-19T22:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/juniper-networks-third-quarter-sales-miss-analysts-estimates-shares-sink.html
Juniper Networks Inc. , the second-
largest U.S. maker of networking equipment, reported revenue
that missed analysts’ estimates as companies curbed spending on
hardware to link computers. The shares slid in late trading.  Sales in the third quarter rose to $1.01 billion, Juniper
said today in a statement. That fell short of the $1.03 billion
average of projections compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding some
costs, profit was 32 cents a share, in line with estimates.  Chief Executive Officer  Kevin Johnson  is working to revive
growth after  sales  fell last year for the first time since 2002.
He’s aiming to take market share from bigger rival  Cisco Systems
Inc.  by expanding product lines for routers and switches that
run over Ethernet networks. At the same time, Juniper faces what
research firm Gartner Inc. says will be “lackluster” corporate
spending on information technology in the next five years.  Juniper, based in Sunnyvale, California, tumbled as much as
12 percent in late trading to $26.93. The shares, which surged
33 percent in the third quarter,  declined  $1.43 to $30.54 at 4
p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, the biggest drop
in more than two months.  “When you’ve got a stock that’s had such a share
appreciation in just the course of this quarter, the thought
process was that revenues would be even stronger,” said  Erik Suppiger , an analyst at Signal Hill Capital Group. “Investor
optimism was probably getting ahead of itself.”  Suppiger, who is based in San Francisco, has a “hold”
 rating  on the shares and doesn’t own any himself.  Fourth-Quarter Outlook  Juniper’s stock pared some late-trading losses after the
company forecast sales for the  current quarter  of $1.1 billion
to $1.14 billion. Profit excluding some costs will be 35 cents
to 37 cents a share, the company said on a conference call.
Analysts had projected revenue of $1.1 billion and earnings of
35 cents.  Sales were hurt last quarter because Juniper was unable to
fulfill all its orders, CEO Johnson said on the call.  The company is also facing growing competition from smaller
rivals such as Arista Networks Inc., which is adding to pricing
pressure on Juniper’s new products, said  Catherine Trebnick , an
analyst at Avian Securities Inc. in Boston.  “They still really haven’t had proof of pudding on newer
product introductions,” said Trebnick, who has a “neutral”
rating on the stock and doesn’t own it. “It’s a competitive
field.”  Third-quarter  net income  climbed 61 percent to $134.5
million, or 25 cents a share, from $83.8 million, or 16 cents, a
year earlier, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  