-- KDDI, Sony E-Book Venture Is in Talks to Expand Lineup of E-Reader Devices
-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i
-- 2010-10-19T08:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/kddi-sony-e-book-venture-is-in-talks-to-expand-lineup-of-e-reader-devices.html
KDDI Corp. ’s e-book venture with
 Sony Corp. ,  Asahi Shimbun Publishing Co.  and  Toppan Printing Co. 
is in talks with hardware makers to expand its lineup of reader
devices to compete with  Apple Inc. ’s iPad.  “Various negotiations are under way, and we’re hoping to
have something concrete by the end of the year,”  Toshitake Amamiya , who heads the e-book business at KDDI, said in an
interview today. Amamiya declined to name the companies.  KDDI, Japan’s second-largest mobile-phone operator, and its
partners aim to increase the number of dedicated e-book readers
and smartphones that can offer its service to attract publishers
and help fend off competition from Apple’s tablet computer.
Global shipments of the iPad may reach 13.8 million units this
year, industry researcher ISuppli Corp.  forecast  yesterday.  The venture, formed in July, plans to begin offering books,
comics, magazines and newspaper content this year, the four
companies said in May. KDDI unveiled its own Biblio Leaf reader
for the service yesterday, while Sony has said it will introduce
an e-book device later this year.  “Our device has several advantages, such as an easier to
read e-paper screen, longer battery life and an e-book file
format that allows for greater content storage capacity,”
Amamiya said. “We also have a better understanding of consumer
preferences in this country.”  KDDI  rose 3.1 percent to close at 411,500 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange. The stock has lost 17 percent this year,
compared with a 9.6 percent drop by the benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshinori Eki in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net ;
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  