-- Kenyan President Kibaki Suspends Higher Education Minister William Ruto
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k   a n d   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 2010-10-19T17:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/kenyan-president-kibaki-suspends-higher-education-minister-william-ruto.html
Kenyan President  Mwai Kibaki 
suspended Higher Education Minister  William Ruto  pending the
conclusion of a fraud case involving the sale of land to a
state-owned oil company.  Ruto will be replaced by East African Community Minister
Hellen Sambili, the presidency said in an e-mailed statement
today from Nairobi, the capital.  Kenya’s Constitutional Court on Oct. 15 ruled that Ruto
should face criminal prosecution over the sale of land in the
 Ngong Forest Sanctuary  to the Kenya Pipeline Co. for 272 million
shillings ($3.3 million), the  Daily Nation , a Nairobi-based
newspaper, reported yesterday. Ruto allegedly received 96
million shillings in the deal, it said.  Ruto didn’t answer his mobile phone today when called by
Bloomberg for comment.  Capital FM , a broadcaster in the city, on
Oct. 16 cited Ruto as saying that he denied receiving any money
from the Ngong transaction.  Ruto has sought to profile himself as a challenger for the
presidency in elections scheduled for 2012, Global Insight
analyst  Gus Selassie  said in April, when Ruto was replaced in a
Cabinet reorganization and moved to the Higher Education post.  Ruto has previously clashed with Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , who suspended Ruto in February to allow a probe into a
graft scandal that involved the re-export of grain to Southern
Sudan to be completed. Kibaki overruled the decision hours
later, saying that Odinga exceeded his authority by ordering the
suspension. Ruto denied any wrongdoing and last year won a vote
of no confidence in parliament over the matter.  Kibaki also announced today that Haron Mwau, currently the
assistant transport minister, will swap roles with Simon Ogari,
the deputy in the Trade Ministry. Ferdinand Waititu, a member of
parliament and of Kibaki’s Party of National unity, becomes
assistant water minister. Margaret Kariuki of Odinga’s party is
now assistant housing minister, a post she previously held.  Mwangi Kiunjuri, the current deputy water minister, was
appointed assistant public works minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Ombok  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 