-- Kenyan Tea Workers Strike for Second Day Over Picking Machines, Union Says
-- B y   C o n s o l a t a h   L u c a s
-- 2010-10-19T14:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/kenyan-tea-workers-strike-for-second-day-over-picking-machines-union-says.html
A strike by tea workers in  Kenya 
over the use of picking machines by companies entered its second
day, the Kenya Plantation and Agricultural Workers Union said.  “The strike will continue until the concerned parties come
to the negotiating table and resolve the issue,” Meshack Khisa,
head of industrial relations at the labor union, said in a phone
interview today from Nakuru, 157 kilometers (98 miles) northwest
of Nairobi, the capital.  An estimated 50,000 of the industry’s 80,000 workers are
participating in the work stoppage, Khisa said. The Kenya Tea
Growers Association, the main industry body, hasn’t begun
negotiations yet on the picking machines, Betty Chemutai, an
administrative assistant at the association, said in a phone
interview. She declined to comment further.  Kenya is the world’s biggest exporter of black tea.
Production may increase by 11 percent to 350 million kilograms
(770 million pounds) this year, the Kenya Tea Board said last
month. Agriculture accounts for a quarter of gross domestic
product in Kenya, East Africa’s biggest economy.  The tea-industry strike is aimed at protecting the
livelihoods of thousands of Kenyan families who will be affected
if machines continue to be used, Adam Baraza, personal assistant
to Central Organization of Trade Unions Secretary-General
Francis Atwoli, said in a phone interview yesterday. The KPAWU
is affiliated to COTU.  African tea prices rose for a third week, increasing to an
average of $2.57 a kilogram (2.2 pounds) from $2.41 last week,
Tea Brokers East Africa Ltd. said in an e-mailed statement
today. Weekly auctions are held in the Kenyan port city of
Mombasa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Consolatah Lucas  in Mombasa via the Johannesburg bureau at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 