-- Kirin Unit to Become New Zealand's Second-Biggest Wine Seller After Deal
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2010-10-19T04:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/kirin-unit-to-become-new-zealand-s-second-biggest-wine-seller-after-deal.html
Kirin Holdings Co. ’s  Lion Nathan 
unit will become New Zealand’s second-largest wine distributor
after acquiring brands and wineries from  Pernod-Ricard SA  for
NZ$88 million ($66 million) through a joint venture.  Lion Nathan will acquire 12 brands, including sparkling
wine label  Lindauer , and the Sydney-based company’s partner
 Indevin  will buy vineyards from Pernod-Ricard in the North
Island’s Gisborne and Hawke’s Bay regions, the companies said
yesterday in a joint statement.  The deal makes Lion Nathan the largest wine distributor in
New Zealand after Pernod-Ricard. Lion Nathan acquired the brands
to add more affordable labels to its wine business, which
primarily included bottles costing more than NZ$15,  Neil Hinton ,
a company spokesman, said by phone today.  “It’s a clear signal from Lion Nathan that they want to be
very serious about New Zealand wine,” said  Philip Gregan , chief
executive officer of New Zealand Winegrowers, an industry group.
“It’s a good outcome for the industry.”  Kirin  fell  0.5 percent to 1,124 yen as of 12:54 p.m. in
Tokyo trading, bringing its decline this year to 25 percent. The
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 0.3 percent.  Pernod, the Paris-based maker of Chivas Regal whiskey and
Absolut vodka, remains “highly committed to New Zealand,”
Fabian Partigliani, managing director at the company’s local
unit, said in the statement. The company will retain some New
Zealand brands including Brancott Estate, Stoneleigh and Church
Road, he said.  Pernod-Ricard was advised on the transaction by Rabobank
Nederland NV and Bell Gully, according to the statement.  The sale is subject to approval by New Zealand’s  Overseas
Investment Office .  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Phoebe Sedgman  in Wellington at 
 psedgman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  