-- Korea Preparing More Steps Against Capital Inflows Sparked by `Low' Rates
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-10-19T05:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/korea-preparing-more-steps-against-capital-inflows-sparked-by-low-rates.html
South Korea is preparing further
measures to counter capital inflows triggered by low interest
rates overseas as emerging market nations intensify the fight to
restrain their currencies.  “We understand the problems from low interest rates around
the world sparking capital flows to emerging countries,”
Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said at a parliamentary audit
in Seoul today. “We’re now preparing measures to cope with
capital inflows, atop the recent limits on foreign-exchange
derivatives trading.”  Nations from Brazil to Thailand and China are striving to
restrain their currencies as investors seek higher-yielding
emerging market assets amid near-zero U.S. borrowing costs.
Capital flooding into Asia could lead to asset bubbles and
financial instability, International Monetary Fund head
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said Oct. 18.  South Korea’s planned steps can’t be announced yet as “we
have to consider the changing conditions in global financial
markets,” Yoon said at the audit.  The won slid 1 percent to 1,129.35 per dollar as of 1:33
p.m. in Seoul today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
after Yoon told the lawmakers the authorities will act when
“herd behavior” causes sudden moves in the currency.  The won has risen by 7.6 percent in the past three months,
the second-best performer in non-Japan Asia, which may help to
curb domestic inflation while threatening export competitiveness
at firms such as Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s largest
automaker.  “Currency War”  Brazil yesterday stepped up efforts to curb gains in the
real by announcing an increase in inflow taxes, saying it may be
forced to take additional measures as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  called for an end to the worldwide “currency war.”  Thailand said last week it will remove a 15 percent tax
exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds. South
Korean regulators are due to start an audit of banks handling
foreign-currency derivatives today.  The won has surged because of expectations of a second
round of monetary easing by the U.S. and a prolonged currency
“war” is a risk to Asia’s fourth-largest economy, Bank of Korea
Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said during another audit by lawmakers
yesterday.  G-20 Tension  The issue of currency policy may dominate the summit of the
 Group of 20  economies in Seoul next month, which South Korea
will be chairing. Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  signaled on
Oct. 13 that South Korea, given its role at the meeting next
month, should stop preventing its exchange rate from
appreciating.  Japan’s finance minister today said there may have been a
“misunderstanding” over his government’s stance on Chinese and
South Korean currencies, a sign he’s seeking to ease tension
over foreign-exchange policy ahead of G-20 meetings. Japan last
month intervened for the first time in six years to restrain the
yen and protect exporters.  The U.S. and Europe have been pressuring emerging-market
nations to let their exchange rates appreciate to help rebalance
demand in the global economy.  Singapore’s central bank last week signaled it will allow a
faster gain in the island’s currency to curb inflation, even as
its economy shrank last quarter. Sri Lanka said today it plans
to ease foreign-exchange controls after the nation’s central
bank left interest rates unchanged.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  