-- Korea Won Drops on Concern China Rate Increase May Sap Exports; Bonds Fall
-- B y   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-10-20T01:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/korean-won-rises-on-inflows-current-account-surplus-intervention-a-risk.html
The won fell for a fourth day, its
longest losing streak since July, after China’s move to raise
interest rates spurred concern exports to South Korea’s biggest
overseas market will slow. Bonds slid the most in four months.  The currency dropped to a three-week low after the People’s
Bank of China yesterday unexpectedly lifted the benchmark one-
year lending rate for the first time since 2007. The  Kospi  share
index approached a one-month low after overseas investors sold
more shares than they  bought  for the first time in five days.  “This can really affect Korea’s trade and economy because
we are so tightly connected with them,” said  Yun Se Min , a
Seoul-based currency trader at Busan Bank. “This is going to be
negative for the won at least in the short term.”  The won fell 0.5 percent to 1,135.66 per dollar as of 9:21
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
dropped to as much as 1,142.95, the weakest level since Sept.
29. The currency rose 6.8 percent in the past three months, a
performance second only to the Thai baht among Asia’s 10 most-
active emerging-market currencies, as near-zero interest rates
in the U.S. and Japan spurred demand for higher-yielding assets
elsewhere.  South Korea’s export growth cooled to an 11-month low in
September, the Ministry of Knowledge Economy said Oct. 1.
Overseas sales rose 17.2 percent, compared with an increase of
27.7 percent in August. Exports account for about half of the
domestic economy.  The Bank of Korea last week held off from raising interest
rates for a third monthly policy meeting, citing concern the
won’s advance is threatening exports.  South Korean government bonds fell for a third day. The
yield on the 3.75 percent bond due June 2013 rose 13 basis
points, the most since June 21, to 3.29 percent, according to
prices from Korea Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 