-- New York Hospital Bonds Penalized by U.S. Health-Care Debate: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-10-19T04:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/new-york-hospital-bonds-penalized-by-u-s-health-care-debate-muni-credit.html
New York City Health and Hospitals
Corp. , which serves more than 1.3 million in the five boroughs,
took orders for $188 million in debt from individual investors
who demanded more yield amid the U.S. health-care overhaul.  Bonds due in December 2018 were priced to yield 2.84
percent following yesterday’s so-called retail order period.
That’s 92 basis points, or 0.92 percentage point, above top-
rated debt, according to an eight-year  Bloomberg Valuation
index . A comparably rated eight-year transportation-revenue bond
from  New Jersey  was priced to yield 2.72 on Oct. 13, 82 basis
points above the index.  “The biggest issue is the uncertainty” of health-care
costs, said  Alan Schankel , managing director of fixed-income
research at Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, an
underwriter on the deal. “A double-A hospital is not going to
trade nearly as well as a G.O. or even a toll road. The hospital
will have to pay the highest interest cost.”  The offering is rated A+ by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings, both fifth-highest, and Aa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service, one level higher.  The corporation was able to mitigate the extra yield
investors demand for hospital bonds because of its ties to New
York City and the so-called lockbox structure of its revenue
collection, Chief Financial Officer Marlene Zurack said in a
telephone interview.  First Call  Under that arrangement bondholders have first call on
health-care reimbursement revenue and the city is mandated to
replenish the corporation’s capital-reserve fund, Zurack said.  “In many ways, we’re viewed as a city credit, so that’s
very helpful,” she said.  Sales to institutional investors, such as mutual funds and
insurance companies, will be today. Proceeds from the
corporation’s $513 million tax-exempt sale will refund debt sold
in 1999 and some of the bonds sold in 2002, with about $200
million to be used for capital financing, according to
preliminary offering documents.  “We have about $350 million left to go in institutional,”
Zurack said. So far, “we’re feeling really good about the
yields. It was a good day to be in the market.”  The corporation sold $269 million in August 2008, with
nine-year debt priced to yield 4.24 percent, or 60 basis points
above comparable-maturity  AAA debt , according to data from
Municipal Market Advisors, a Concord, Massachusetts-based
independent research firm.  The securities traded Oct. 14 at an average yield of 2.65
percent, or 68 basis points above  top-rated debt  due in 2017.  Stable Outlook  “The outlook for the New York City Health and Hospitals
Corporation’s Health System Revenue Bonds is stable,”  Nicholas Samuels  and  Kimberly Lyons , Moody’s analysts, wrote in the
rating report. “The outlook reflects HHC’s strong legal
relationship with New York City and the city’s demonstrated
commitment to the public hospital system.”  The agency oversees 11 acute-care hospitals, four long-term
care centers and 60 outpatient facilities.  In March, Congress passed the final part of the landmark
U.S. health-care overhaul, which the Congressional Budget Office
estimated will cost $940 billion over 10 years. The new plan
will extend Medicaid coverage to 16 million more Americans,
according to the CBO.  Republicans continue to challenge the plan and 20 states
have filed suit over the constitutionality of the law.  Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA WATER AND SEWER AUTHORITY, which
serves 600,000 people in Washington, plans to sell $300 million
of Build America Bonds tomorrow. The obligations are backed by
revenue from consumer water bills and will be used to preserve
and upgrade the district’s water and wastewater systems.
Underwriters led by JPMorgan Chase & Co. will market the issue,
which is rated Aa3 by Moody’s and AA- by both S&P and Fitch
Ratings, all fourth-highest. (Updated Oct. 19)  PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY, which owns the
World Trade Center site in addition to operating Newark Liberty
International, John F. Kennedy International and LaGuardia
airports, will sell $850 million in taxable bonds tomorrow to
fund construction at the trade center site. Citigroup Inc. will
market the issue, which is rated Aa2 by Moody’s, third-highest,
and AA- by S&P and Fitch, both fourth-highest. (Updated Oct. 19)  UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS BUILDING AUTHORITY, the
organization that oversees the buildings of the state university
system and its five campuses, plans to sell $567 million taxable
and tax-exempt bonds in a competitive bid Oct. 21, including
$438 million in Build America Bonds. The debt, backed by state
appropriations and student fees, will be used to build an
academic building on the Boston campus, new student housing at
its Amherst campus and a marine science building at its
Dartmouth campus, according to a Moody’s report. The securities
are rated Aa2 by Moody’s and AA by Fitch, both third-highest.
(Added Oct. 19)  TRIBOROUGH BRIDGE AND TUNNEL AUTHORITY , the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority unit that operates nine tolled river
crossings, will borrow $347 million in taxable and tax-exempt
bonds in a competitive bid tomorrow. The debt, which includes
$280 million in Build America Bonds and is backed by tolls
collected from the bridges and tunnels, will be used to finance
construction projects for its own facilities. The securities are
rated AA by Fitch, third-highest, one level above S&P’s AA-
rating. (Added Oct. 19)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 