-- New York Times Revenue Falls Short on Advertising, Circulation Declines
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2010-10-19T20:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/new-york-times-loss-narrows-as-pension-expenses-fall-revenue-declines.html
New York Times Co. , publisher of the
namesake newspaper, posted third-quarter sales that fell short
of analysts’ estimates as advertising and circulation revenue
declined.  Third-quarter sales slid 2.7 percent to $554.3 million, the
New York-based company said today in a statement. Analysts had
predicted $558.8 million on average, according to a Bloomberg
survey. Times Co. also reported earnings that topped estimates
as pension expenses declined.  “They missed the top line by a smidgen, and managed to
beat the bottom line by a smidgen,” said  Edward J. Atorino , an
analyst at Benchmark Co. LLC in New York. “I don’t guess it’s
anything to get too excited about.”  Chief Executive Officer  Janet Robinson  is trimming costs as
revenue slumps. The company, faced with competition from  News
Corp. ’s Wall Street Journal, has posted a sales decline in 10 of
the past 11 quarters. Readers are also increasingly seeking
their news from the Web, where stories are updated more
frequently.  Times Co. fell 25 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $7.79 in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The stock has declined 37
percent this year.  The company’s net loss shrank to $4.26 million, or 3 cents
a share, from $35.6 million, or 25 cents, a year earlier, the
company said. Excluding some items, profit was 7 cents a share,
compared with a 5-cent profit  projected  by analysts.  Advertising revenue declined 1 percent to $287 million, and
circulation revenue declined 4.8 percent to $229.1 million, the
company said. Digital advertising revenue increased 14.6 percent
to $78.3 million, while print advertising declined 5.8 percent.
The company said it expects fourth-quarter print advertising to
improve modestly, and digital to be up by 10 percent.  Online Pay Model  The company said it is making progress in plans to begin
charging readers for New York Times’ content online. It will
allow people to read some stories without charge if they come to
the website from social networks such as Facebook Inc. or search
engines like  Google Inc. , the company said.  “We have determined that the model will allow readers
referred from third-party sites such as blogs, social media
networks and search engines access to that content without
triggering the gate,” Robinson said in a statement today.  Last month, Robinson said the New York Times newspaper is
experiencing “no impact” on its business as a result of the
Wall Street Journal’s new local New York City section. She also
said the company’s digital-advertising business “continues to
be strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  