-- New York State Tax Collections $529 Million Less Than Foreseen in August
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-10-19T21:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/new-york-state-tax-collections-529-million-less-than-foreseen-in-august.html
New York  collected $529 million less
in taxes during the past six months than the state budget office
projected in August, according to a monthly report from
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli .  New York’s tax revenue grew 5 percent from a year earlier,
mostly from personal-income taxes, though the increase wasn’t as
great as forecast, the  report  said. To meet the targets set in
the budget approved in August, tax collections in all accounts
must grow 9 percent for the remainder of the year, according to
the report.  “The economy is getting better, but the state’s fiscal
condition isn’t,” DiNapoli said in a  statement . “It is
troubling that the updated financial plan was constructed only
six weeks ago and tax revenues are already off target.”  New York faces an $8.2 billion deficit in the year
beginning April 1, DiNapoli  said  last month. Lawmakers agreed in
August on a $133.8 billion  budget  to close a $9.2 billion
deficit for the year that ends March 31.  “This report is a signal that the budget gap is not going
to get any smaller,” said E.J. McMahon, executive director of
the  Empire Center for New York State Policy , an Albany-based
group that advocates less government spending.  Most of the weakness in tax revenue was in September,
DiNapoli said. After five months of the fiscal year, tax
collections were only $78 million below plan, according to his
August  report .  Crucial Surge  To reach its revenue targets, the state is counting on a
surge in receipts from capital gains levies as taxpayers lock in
profit before year-end and avoid a scheduled increase in the
federal rate to 20 percent on Jan. 1, from 15 percent now,
DiNapoli said.  After lawmakers from both major parties objected to plans
to let the tax rate rise under law, Congress delayed action
until after the November elections.  “The federal rate is probably not going up and the state’s
revenues could be hundreds of millions lower as a result,”
McMahon said.  New York expected a 12 percent, or $896 million,  increase 
in estimated-tax payments in 2010, much of it from a 59 percent
 jump  in receipts from capital gains levies because of the
anticipated higher federal rate next year, according to the
Economic and Revenue Outlook published by the Budget Division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  