-- New Jersey Toll Money Wasted on Birthday Pay, Bowling League, Audit Finds
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-10-19T20:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/new-jersey-turnpike-bowling-league-among-43-million-of-waste-audit-finds.html
The New Jersey Turnpike Authority 
paid employees inappropriate bonuses that included $227,000 for
working on birthdays and $3.8 million for unused sick days,
state Comptroller  Matthew Boxer  said.  The toll-road operator, which collects $1.1 billion in
annual revenue and plans to issue $2.5 billion in bonds by year-
end, paid $12,000 to sponsor an employee bowling league,
according to a report released today by Boxer’s office. The
agency also gave employees $430,000 of free rides on the New
Jersey Turnpike and Garden State Parkway and overpaid a law firm
$224,000 last year, the audit found. The authority wasted $43
million in all, the report said.  The bonuses enabled at least five of the agency’s senior
managers to earn more last year than the $141,000 paid to New
Jersey Cabinet members, including Transportation Commissioner
 James Simpson , according to the report. The authority increased
tolls in December 2008 and plans to raise them again in 2012,
Boxer said.  “While tolls are going up, the Turnpike Authority is
overpaying its employees, overpaying its management, overpaying
for its health plan and overpaying for legal services,” Boxer
said in a  statement .  No Free Rides  Some of the bonuses and perks cited by the comptroller,
such as annual bonuses for employees on the job for more than 10
years and free toll passes for employees, have been eliminated,
Veronique Hakim, executive director of the Turnpike Authority,
said in a written response to the report.  “There is no evidence to support a finding that the
authority’s executive management negotiators did not always
negotiate in a manner that was in the best interests of the
authority,” the response says.  The authority will eliminate the bonuses highlighted in the
comptroller’s report as contracts are negotiated next year,
Simpson said in a statement today.  “We’re taking critical and long overdue steps to end waste
at the Turnpike Authority and implement real reform,” said
Simpson, who by virtue of his office is chairman of the
authority.  The authority collected $950 million in tolls last year.
Its operating expenses were $481 million, with the remaining
revenue allocated to debt-service payments and reserves, the
report says.  The authority is scheduled to sell $2 billion in taxable
Build America Bonds and $538 million in refunding bonds before
Dec. 31 as part of a seven-year, $7 billion capital program.  Contracts Ending  Each of the Turnpike Authority’s 10 labor contracts is due
to expire next year, according to the report.  The benefits Boxer highlighted are trade-offs reached
during contract negotiations in return for concessions on pay
and work terms, said Frank Forst, assistant to the president of
 International Federation of Professional & Technical Engineers
Local 194 , which represents about 1,500 Turnpike toll
collectors, clerical employees and maintenance workers.  “Our people consistently are at about the average earnings
of middle class Americans, and they work for what they get,”
said Forst. “To nitpick one thing after another is easy for a
guy looking from the outside.”  Boxer, 40, was  named  New Jersey’s first comptroller by
former Governor  Jon Corzine  in January 2008. Before joining the
Corzine administration, Boxer had worked in the U.S. Attorney’s
Office under now-governor  Chris Christie , overseeing public
corruption investigations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  