-- Cuomo, Paladino Avoid Personal Attacks in 7-Way New York Governor Debate
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-10-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/new-york-s-cuomo-paladino-shun-barbs-in-first-and-only-governor-s-debate.html
Andrew Cuomo  and  Carl Paladino , the
frontrunners for governor of  New York , spent their first and
only scheduled debate vowing to reduce taxes, spending and
government corruption, without once mentioning the other’s name.  Democrat Cuomo and Republican Paladino avoided the personal
attacks of recent weeks during a  Hofstra University  appearance
yesterday with five others on the ballot, including a woman who
ran a Manhattan escort service and the founder of the Rent Is
Too Damn High party.  The nation’s third most-populous state faces a projected
$8.2 billion budget  gap  next year, just months after legislators
closed a $9.2 billion deficit for the fiscal year that began
April 1. Cuomo, 52, the state attorney general, and Paladino,
64, a Buffalo-based real-estate developer running with Tea Party
support, each said he was best able to shift the state’s
direction toward fiscal solvency and economic stability.  “We just have too many governments in the state of New
York, 10,500 governments," said Cuomo, calling for
regionalization to reduce taxes. ‘‘Town, village, water
district, sewer district, you have to consolidate those
governments. We just can’t afford them anymore.’’  Paladino blamed Medicaid, the health-care program for the
poor, and state-mandated education spending for increases in
local property taxes. He pledged to cut fraud and waste in
Medicaid and said he would ‘‘dismember the New York state
education department’’ to abolish the programs it imposes on
local school districts.  Campaign Accusations  Absent from the 90-minute program were Cuomo’s depiction of
Paladino as an ‘‘Albany insider’’ using political influence to
get state contracts, and Paladino’s accusation that Cuomo, while
U.S. housing secretary, quashed a probe into a future employer
now serving as his campaign’s finance chairman.  Cuomo went into the debate leading Paladino 59 percent to
24 percent in a New York Times poll of likely voters. The survey
published Oct. 17 had a margin of error of plus or minus 3
percentage points.  Paladino has promised to cut taxes 10 percent and reduce
spending by 20 percent in his first year, and has also proposed
two annual reductions of $7 billion in the state’s general fund.
Paladino said he could achieve the changes because his largely
self-financed campaign owes no favors to special interests.  Governor’s Son  Cuomo, son of former Democratic Governor  Mario Cuomo ,
restated his campaign pledge to eliminate 20 percent of state
agencies and authorities. He said he would  cap  spending at the
rate of inflation, freeze taxes and root out fraud and waste.  Cuomo called for more financial disclosure by public
officials and changes that would reduce the costs of pension
benefits for future public employees.  Minor-party candidates  Charles Barron , a New York City
Council member and former Black Panther, and Howie Hawkins of
the  Green Party  called for higher taxes on the wealthiest 1
percent of state residents.  Warren Redlich, running on the Libertarian ballot line,
said government waste was responsible for high taxes.  Kristin Davis, 35, the self-described  Manhattan Madam 
connected with the resignation of former Democratic Governor
 Eliot Spitzer , said the state could raise $1.5 billion by taxing
legalized marijuana sales and $2 billion if it legalized casino
gambling.  Her escort agency, she said, was run better than the
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which operates New York
City’s subways, buses and commuter trains.  ‘‘I keep one set of books and my agency provided on-time
and reliable service,” Davis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in Hempstead, Long Island, at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  