-- New York Bomb Plot Convictions Vindicate Use of Informant by Prosecutors
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-10-19T19:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/new-york-bomb-plot-convictions-vindicate-use-of-informant-by-prosecutors.html
The convictions of four men for
conspiring to bomb New York synagogues vindicated the post-9/11
strategy of using an informant to identify individuals deemed
likely to engage in terrorism and encourage them up to the point
of arrest, legal experts said.  After being approached by one defendant who said he wanted
“to do something to America,” the informant testified, he
sought to gain their trust, urging them forward with gifts,
scouting targets with them and eventually supplying them with
dud bombs. Undercover informants played similar roles in three
other recent terrorism cases, helping develop, then foil alleged
plots to detonate a bomb near Chicago’s Wrigley Field, attack a
federal courthouse in Illinois and blow up a Dallas skyscraper.  Prosecutors told jurors in the New York trial the men were
“ready and willing” to commit terrorism. Defense lawyers said
their impoverished clients were entrapped by an informant
promising them as much as $250,000.  “It tells you that entrapment will not likely work in a
terrorism case” as a defense,  Karen Greenberg , executive
director of the  Center on Law and Security  at the New York
University law school, said outside the court. “This was the
strongest entrapment defense we’ve seen.”  Entrapment hasn’t been successfully argued in a post-9/11
terrorism trial, according to the center. To prevail as a
defense, the accused must show they wouldn’t have committed the
crime without being urged on.  Catching Terrorists  “We’re interested in catching terrorists, not people who
have mental problems and wonder what it would be like to blow up
the Sears tower but they can’t get out of bed in the morning,”
said  James J. Wedick , an ex-FBI agent who has been hired as an
 expert witness  for the defense in terrorism cases. “We’re not
supposed to do that. But we are.”  Wedick, 60, a 35-year veteran of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation who retired in 2004, said there has been
“aggressive use of paying individuals large sums of money to go
into small ethnic communities and look for individuals who are
interested in harming the country.”  As of last month, informants were key to arrests in about
62 percent of the 50 most serious alleged terrorist plots since
9/11, according to the NYU center. The entrapment defense was
raised in about 28 percent of those cases, including that of a
man convicted of plotting to bomb a subway station in Manhattan
before the 2004 Republican National Convention.  93% Conviction Rate  Of the approximately 700 prosecutions of individuals on
terror-related charges since the 2001 attacks, the government
has a 93 percent conviction rate, the NYU center said last year.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon , who presided over the
synagogue plot trial in Manhattan federal court, told jurors
before deliberations that the government is allowed to use
undercover agents or paid informants to enforce laws and to
“resort to artifice and stratagem in order to catch persons who
are criminally minded.”  “In their zeal to enforce the law, however, government
agents may not originate a criminal design, implant the
disposition to commit the charged criminal act into an innocent
person’s mind, and then induce the person to commit the crime,”
McMahon said.  Cases in which an informant plays a major role are
“extremely unsettling,” said Greenberg, of the NYU center.
“The question is, are we creating terrorists or finding people
who could be terrorists? And how do we draw a distinction
between the two?”  Guilty Verdicts  The jury in the New York case found James Cromitie 44, Onta
Williams, 34, David Williams, 29, and Laguerre Payen, 29, all of
Newburgh, New York, guilty of conspiring to blow up a synagogue
and a Jewish community center in the Bronx section of New York
City. They were also convicted of planning to shoot down
military planes at Stewart International Airport with heat-
seeking missiles. Sentencing is set for March 24.  The government didn’t deny that the informant in the case,
Shahed Hussain, offered rewards to the defendants including
cars, cash and meals. Hussain was “not just the eyes and
ears,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Adam Hickey told the jury during
opening arguments. “He was no wallflower.”  The case started when the FBI’s office in White Plains, New
York, began sending Hussain to mosques in late 2007 to pose as a
member of the Pakistan-based terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed. He
was told to meet with targets of other terror investigations,
the informant testified.  Approached by Cromitie  Hussain said he had been attending services at the Masjid-
al-Ikhlas mosque in Newburgh for several months when he was
approached by Cromitie in June 2008 in the parking lot.  The defendant allegedly introduced himself, held up a
finger and expressed a desire “to do something to America.”
Cromitie later recruited the other three defendants, Hussain
said.  The informant, paid about $96,000 by the FBI for his time
and expenses over almost four years, said he bought the
defendants coffee, meals and offered them cars, getaway money
and vacations.  Hussain eventually provided the defendants with three
improvised explosive devices and two heat-seeking Stinger
missiles -- all rendered inert by the FBI. They were arrested in
the Riverdale section of the Bronx, across the street from one
of their alleged targets.  Prosecutors and defense lawyers clashed during closing
arguments over a crucial element of entrapment: whether the
defendants’ were predisposed toward committing the crimes.  Defense Arguments  Lawyers for the four men maintained they were petty
criminals with no history of violence who were in it for the
money, while the government claimed they were intent on
attacking the U.S.  “It may shock you to know that the government can offer
people money to commit a crime,” Assistant U.S. Attorney David
Raskin, the lead prosecutor, told jurors. “It’s not just about
what the government did or offered to the defendants. Ordinary
people wouldn’t have dreamed of doing the things that these
defendants have done.”  Defense attorneys attacked Hussain’s credibility,
portraying him as a habitual liar who allegedly falsified
financial records and immigration applications, and selectively
recorded conversations with the defendants.  A Pakistani immigrant who came to the U.S. illegally in the
mid-1990s, Hussain began cooperating with the Justice Department
in 2002 after being arrested for helping people fraudulently
obtain drivers licenses.  2004 Case  In 2004, he was integral to the conviction of a pizzeria
owner and the imam of a mosque, FBI Agent Robert Fuller
testified. Three years later, Hussain became a paid informant
for the bureau’s White Plains office.  “If you put a rotten egg in an omelet, I can assure you
you won’t want to eat that omelet,” Cromitie’s attorney,
 Vincent Briccetti , told the jury of Hussain’s testimony. “It’s
garbage and you should reject all of it.”  Wedick said some informants are “guys with criminal
backgrounds, unsavory kind of characters who on any given day
may lie, cheat and steal.”  The former FBI agent worked as a defense consultant on two
prominent terrorism cases involving informants.  In 2005, he was hired by lawyers for  Hamid Hayat , a Lodi,
California, man accused of attending a terrorist training camp,
and his father, Umid Hayat, accused of lying to investigators.
Both were convicted.  Work for Defense  In 2007, Wedick worked for a defense team representing a
group of Miami men accused of plotting to blow up the Sears
Tower in Chicago. Five of the seven men were convicted.  Ross Rice , a spokesman for the FBI’s Chicago office, said
entrapment is “always an issue” in cases involving informants.  The government checks the background of prospective
operatives and works closely with the U.S. Attorney’s Office to
make sure it doesn’t “cross the line,” he said.  An informant played a key role in the charging by Rice’s
office of a man who allegedly planned to bomb a commercial area
near Chicago’s Wrigley Field baseball stadium. Others were used
in cases over alleged plans to attack a federal courthouse in
Springfield, Illinois, and bomb a Dallas skyscraper.  Sami Samir Hassoun, charged last month with the Chicago
plot, allegedly conspired with a FBI informant who gave him a
fake bomb and timer in a backpack he left in a trash can near
the stadium.  Hoped for Violence  Hassoun came to the FBI’s attention from a “cooperating
source” who quoted him as saying “that he wanted to commit
acts of violence against the city of Chicago and its
residents,” according to an FBI affidavit. Hassoun, facing a
possible life sentence if convicted, hasn’t entered a plea.  The alleged Springfield and Dallas plots both involved what
turned out to be bogus vehicle bombs supplied by the government,
prosecutors said. In each, an informant accompanied the would-be
bomber to the target, they said.  In Dallas, Hosam Smadi, 20, pleaded guilty to attempted use
of a weapon of mass destruction and was sentenced today to
24 years in prison. His lawyer, Peter Fleury of Fort Worth,
Texas, didn’t respond to telephone calls seeking comment.  Michael Finton, accused in the Springfield case, is to be
tried in March. His lawyer, William Lucco of Edwardsville,
Illinois, declined to comment.  The two men came to the attention of investigators because
they expressed a desire to attack the U.S., according to
prosecutors: Smadi on the Internet and Finton in writings found
in his vehicle after a parole-violation arrest.  Need for Informants  It would be impossible for the government to foil terror
plots without using undercover agents, said  Robert M. Chesney , a
University of Texas law  professor  who  lectures  on terrorism and
the law.  “This is a tension that we normally handle by letting the
jury decide whether they credit the defense” of entrapment, he
said.  As the jury in the New York case was deliberating,
entrapment became an issue of contention. Judge McMahon
dismissed a juror after the woman discovered a transcript of a
phone call mistakenly provided to the jury.  The transcript, accidentally left in a binder given to the
juror by prosecutors, detailed a conversation in June 2009 where
one of the defendants, David Williams, and his father discussed
entrapment, according to defense attorneys. Jurors also had
access to a second telephone call transcript between defendant
Onta Williams and an unidentified woman in May 2009 that also
wasn’t admitted into evidence.  $10,000 Offer  In that conversation, Williams said the informant, Hussain,
offered him $10,000 to participate in the plot. Both
conversations were recorded while the defendants were
incarcerated following their arrest last year.  McMahon dismissed the juror after she said she didn’t know
if she would be able to ignore the telephone conversations
during deliberations. The judge ordered the remaining 11 jurors
to resume deliberations.  Jake Ryan , a former federal prosecutor, said the FBI and
the Joint Terrorism Task Force, which includes local and federal
personnel, look for suspects who present a genuine threat.  “They’re not interested in trying to create dangerous
people,” said Ryan, who’s now with San Diego-based law firm
Latham & Watkins LLP. “They’re interested in identifying
dangerous people.”  The New York synagogue case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-
00558, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The Chicago bomb case is U.S. v. Hassoun, 10-cr-
00773, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago). The Dallas skyscraper case is U.S. v. Smadi, 09-cr-
00294, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).
The Illinois courthouse case is U.S. v. Finton, 09-cr-30098,
U.S. District Court, Central District of Illinois (Springfield).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York federal court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago federal court
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 