-- NFL Fines Three Players $175,000 for Hits to Head, Will Start Suspensions
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-19T23:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/nfl-says-it-will-suspend-players-for-dangerous-tackles-starting-this-week.html
The National Football League handed
out $175,000 in fines for flagrant hits that endanger safety and
said it will begin suspending players for similar actions,
particularly blows to the head.  Pittsburgh Steelers linebacker  James Harrison  was fined
$75,000, while Atlanta Falcons cornerback  Dunta Robinson  and New
England Patriots safety  Brandon Meriweather  were docked $50,000
each, the NFL said in a statement.  “Future offenses will result in an escalation of fines up
to and including suspension,” Ray Anderson, the league’s
executive vice president of football operations, said in letters
sent to each player.  Anderson told ESPN’s “ Mike & Mike in the Morning ” radio
program today that the U.S.’s most-watched television sport is
trying to protect players from head and neck injuries.  “We need to get our players firmly in line with the
current rules and that’s what our intentions are, effective
immediately,” Anderson said.  In an interview yesterday, Anderson said the NFL may
suspend even first-time offenders for dangerous hits, because
fines have proven insufficient as a deterrent.  Harrison, who hit two Cleveland players hard enough to
sideline them with head injuries two days ago, was fined $75,000
because he’s a repeat offender, Anderson said. Harrison had been
fined $5,000 for a roughing the passer hit against Tennessee
quarterback  Vince Young  on Sept. 19.  ‘Defenseless Receiver’  Harrison “unnecessarily struck a defenseless receiver in
the head” when he injured Cleveland’s  Mohamed Massaquoi  during
the second quarter of the Steelers’ win two days ago.  NFL rules state a hit is deemed unnecessary roughness if
the initial force of contact -- by a defender’s helmet, forearm
or shoulder -- is to the head or neck of a defenseless receiver
trying to catch a pass.  Robinson was fined for the same infraction on Oct. 17, a
second-quarter hit that left Philadelphia Eagles receiver  DeSean Jackson  with a concussion. Robinson also sustained a concussion
on the play.  Meriweather was fined for two hits to an opponent’s head
area last weekend, including one on Baltimore Ravens tight end
 Todd Heap  that Anderson said was egregious.  “We are not changing any rules,” Anderson said on ESPN.
“We are just going to enforce the existing rules much more to
the letter of the law so we can protect our players.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kuriloff  in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  