-- Nigeria's Mend Repeats Warning of Bombs in Abuja, Targets Jonathan Events
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a   a n d   T o n y   T a m u n o
-- 2010-10-19T15:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/nigeria-s-mend-repeats-warning-of-bombs-in-abuja-targets-jonathan-events.html
The main rebel group in  Nigeria ,
Africa’s biggest oil producer, repeated a threat that it may
plant more bombs in Abuja, the capital, and said it will also
target President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s election campaign.  The  Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta ’s
warning came four days after the group threatened to carry out a
new bomb attack in the city following twin blasts on Oct. 1 that
killed 12 people. The explosions occurred near a venue where
Jonathan was marking the country’s 50th anniversary of
independence from Britain.  “We hereby repeat our warnings to the residents of Abuja,
the heart of the country, and to all persons who will be
interested in attending the political campaign organized by the
president, Goodluck Jonathan,”  Jomo Gbomo , a spokesman for MEND,
said in an e-mailed statement. “This is due to the split he has
initiated in our country.”  Jonathan will seek to extend his rule as leader of Africa’s
most populous nation in elections scheduled for Jan. 22. MEND
says Jonathan, a native of the oil-rich Niger River delta, has
failed to address their demands for greater control of resources
in the region since he took office earlier this year.  Oil Revenue  MEND wants states in the delta to keep all revenue earned
from crude sales and pay only taxes to the federal government.
The government in Abuja currently takes 87 percent of the
revenue and producing states receive 13 percent. Attacks by MEND
and other armed groups cut more than 28 percent of the country’s
oil output between 2006 and 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  Nigeria is the fifth-largest source of U.S. oil imports.
The West African nation’s low-sulphur sweet crude is favored by
many U.S. refiners.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. ,
 Chevron Corp.  and  Total SA  operate joint ventures with the
state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump most of
the country’s oil.  Jonathan has vowed to crack down on those responsible for
the explosions, which he blamed on “a small terrorist group that
resides outside” the country and their domestic sponsors.  Henry Okah , a former leader of MEND, is currently standing
trial in South Africa, where he resides, on accusations that he
masterminded the Abuja blasts. His elder brother, Charles Okah,
has also been arrested and will be charged in court “soon,”
Marilyn Ogar, a spokeswoman for the State Security Service, said
today.  ‘Prime Suspect’  In Port Harcourt, the hub of the country’s oil industry,
Nigerian authorities arrested a “prime suspect” in the Oct. 1
blasts,  Rita Abbey , a spokesman for the police in the city, said
in a phone interview today. The suspect, whom she didn’t
identify, was implicated by other people already in detention as
the man who detonated the bombs in Abuja, she said.  “The person that drove and coordinated the vehicles for the
bombings, the one who directly coordinated the bombings with
Henry Okah, the individual in whose residence in Port Harcourt
the vehicles were wired, and the one that confirmed to his
accomplice that he had completed the job immediately after the
bombings,” will be charged, Ogar said.  MEND will no longer respond to enquiries about its
activities in Nigeria and will only issue “warnings and
statements of claims” about future attacks, Gbomo said. The
group also criticized the detention of its leaders.  “The arrest and detention of our respected brothers of the
land and the assassination of their character has become a great
concern that cannot be ignored,” Gbomo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Tamuno  in Port Harcourt via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  