-- Noda Says Government's China, Korea Currency Comments Were Misunderstood
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-10-19T03:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/noda-says-government-s-china-korea-currency-comments-were-misunderstood.html
Japan’s finance minister said there
may have been a “misunderstanding” over his government’s
stance on Chinese and South Korean currencies, a sign he’s
seeking to ease tension over foreign-exchange policy ahead of a
Group of 20 meeting this week in South Korea.  “There may be a misunderstanding,”  Yoshihiko Noda  told
reporters in Tokyo today. The finance chief last week said South
Korea’s role as G-20 chair would be “closely watched” and
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  called on China and South Korea to
“take responsible actions” on foreign-exchange markets.  The remarks were met with complaints from China and South
Korean officials last week. China said it was “unreasonable” for
Japan to criticize China considering its trade surpluses with
the nation and South Korea’s Ministry of Strategy and Finance
called Japan’s Ministry of Finance to protest. Finance chiefs
are meeting in Gyeongju, South Korea on Oct. 22 and Oct. 23.  Regarding the won, “we didn’t mean to single it out,”
Noda said. “We meant that currencies will likely be the main
agenda at the G-20 meeting, so Korea bears an important
responsibility or role” as the chair nation, he said. Japan
hopes China will make “firm progress” on increasing the
flexibility of its currency, he said.  Japan’s own currency intervention to weaken the yen in
September was met with criticism from policy makers in Europe
and American politicians. The yen has risen more than 14 percent
against the dollar this year, eroding the competitiveness of the
nation’s exporters.  Currency Discussion  “Many people will likely talk about currency issues in the
context of the global economy” at the G-20, said Noda, who has
said competitive currency devaluation will probably be a major
topic at the gathering. Financial regulation and oversight may
also be discussed, he said.  Japan’s Cabinet Office is setting up a panel to study the
globalization of the nation’s currency and will also examine the
shift in factors driving the yen’s advance, Economy Minister
 Banri Kaieda  said at a press conference in Tokyo.  One reason for the yen’s climb has been “a decline in the
status of the U.S.,” Kaieda told a press conference. The yen is
also being purchased as part of growing demand for Asian
currencies, he said, adding it’s necessary to consider the
coordination in foreign-exchange policy with China and South
Korea, without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  