-- Nokia May Report Shrinking Profit, Pressuring Elop for Change
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-10-19T22:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/nokia-may-report-shrinking-profit-as-investors-await-elop-s-comeback-plan.html
Nokia Oyj , the world’s biggest
mobile-phone maker, may post its smallest third-quarter profit
since 2001, underscoring Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Elop ’s
challenge to claw back share from  Apple Inc.  and Google Inc.  Product delays and price competition probably weighed on
the results to be released tomorrow, analysts said. It’s the
first earnings report from Espoo, Finland-based Nokia since
Elop, a former Microsoft Corp. executive, took over last month.  “The third-quarter results are less important than they’ve
historically been because people are really waiting for the new
CEO to find out what his views are on a number of issues,
including the high-end operating systems,” said  Andy Perkins , a
London-based analyst at Societe Generale. “Any comments there
will perhaps be more important than the results themselves.”  Elop took over from  Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo  after investors
and customers called for a leader better able to compete with
the iPhone and devices based on Google’s Android platform. Nokia
lowered its guidance three times since April as delays in
software development pushed volume shipments of the new N8, its
first smartphone with the new Symbian 3 operating system, into
the fourth quarter and left it with lower selling prices.  The delays and price erosion may have resulted in third-
quarter  net income  of 182.5 million euros ($251 million), from a
559 million-euro loss from Nokia Siemens Networks writedowns a
year earlier, according to the average estimate of 26  analysts
surveyed  by Bloomberg. Sales probably rose 1.7 percent to 9.99
billion euros, the average of 41 forecasts showed.  Apple, RIM  Apple reported a 70 percent gain in profit to $4.31 billion
for the quarter, with iPhone shipments almost doubling to 14.1
million and surpassing the 12.1 million BlackBerrys  Research In
Motion Ltd.  shipped in its most recent quarter.  The average analyst estimate for Nokia’s shipments,
including low-end phones and smartphones, was 115 million, or an
increase of 6 percent over last year.  “Nokia is the biggest and we admire them for being able to
ship the number of handsets that they do but we don’t aspire to
be like them,” Apple CEO  Steve Jobs  said, adding that Apple
wants to be “the best” rather than the biggest.  Nokia  shares  have lost more than 60 percent of their value
since Apple’s 2007 introduction of the iPhone. Elop’s
appointment has done little to boost the stock, which has fallen
2.8 percent since he started on Sept. 21 and is unchanged since
his appointment was announced on Sept. 10.  Nokia’s market value has slumped to 28.9 billion euros,
while Apple’s has soared to $282.7 billion.  Elop’s Changes  Elop, 46, a computer engineering major at Canada’s McMaster
University, headed Macromedia Inc., which popularized the Flash
animation software, and  Microsoft ’s business products division
before moving to Nokia. He told Finnish financial magazine
Kauppalehti Optio this month that “internally, changes have
already begun” at Nokia and that the “number of changes will
increase as we move forward.”  For many analysts, the margin Nokia was able to squeeze out
of sales will be the key number to watch.  “It’s well understood that the third quarter will mark a
low point this year for Nokia,” said  Nicolas von Stackelberg , a
Frankfurt-based analyst for Macquarie Group Ltd. “People will
check that they’ve delivered on their guidance, with the margin
in the devices and services business being the most important
point to look out for.”  The company has forecast an adjusted operating margin of 7
to 10 percent in the handset division for the quarter.  Analysts said they will also look for details on the sales
of the smartphone N8, which has gotten mixed reviews, and its
companions, the C7, C6 and E7. Consumers have been waiting for a
hit touchscreen device from Nokia for more than three years.  ‘Margins, Margins’  “I’ll be looking for improvement in the overall situation,
trying to get a handle on the sell-in of the N8, C6 etc. into
the service provider channel,” said  Michiel Plakman , who helps
manage 7 billion euros including Nokia shares at Rotterdam-based
Robeco NV. “And then of course margins, margins, margins are
going to be the focus.”  The company forecast 10 percent to 11 percent for the full-
year device margin after a second-quarter margin of 9.5 percent.  Nokia targeted full-year market share of 34 percent, flat
with last year, which analysts said it would have a hard time
keeping as the new smartphones face competition from a blizzard
of handsets with Google’s Android, priced as little as $150.  In the second quarter, Nokia’s share of smartphone sales to
end users fell to 37.4 percent compared to 45 percent a year
earlier, according to Gartner Inc.  “I think they have to revise the market-share target
downward because after nine months they are clearly behind and
would need a huge jump of 4 to 5 percentage points in the fourth
quarter to reach that target,” said  Michael Schroeder , a
Helsinki-based analyst with FIM Bank.  Symbian 4, MeeGo  Nokia’s next chance to impress the market will be the
launch of smartphones using Symbian 4, a further refinement of
the Symbian 3, and the announcement of devices running MeeGo,
the Linux-based platform it is developing with Intel Corp.  “Analysts are divided on how well this portfolio renewal
will lift off in 2011,” said FIM’s Schroeder. “I think the
relative competitiveness in smartphones won’t improve until we
see Symbian 4 and MeeGo devices making up most of the
portfolio.”  Nokia’s Nokia Siemens Networks venture with  Siemens AG  may
also affect results this quarter. Nokia hasn’t said whether it
will turn an operating profit, guiding for a margin range of -2
percent to 2 percent.  Earnings Estimates  Of the 54 analysts who cover Nokia, 26 rate it a “buy,”
11 recommend selling it and 17 suggest holding the shares,
according to Bloomberg data.  Nokia will report earnings at about 1 p.m. local time
tomorrow, with a conference call at 3 p.m. that can be monitored
on the company’s website.  The following is a table of analysts’ estimates. All
figures are in euros except for unit shipments and refer to the
third quarter, unless noted. The market share estimate is an
approximation using the ratio of the other estimates given.
Estimates for figures for average selling price and shipments
were compiled in a separate survey and compared to figures
reported by Nokia in the year-earlier quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  