-- Obama Wave That Swept Out Republicans Recedes in U.S. House Race Rematches
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-10-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/obama-wave-that-swept-out-republicans-recedes-in-u-s-house-race-rematches.html
Democrat  Frank Kratovil  drafted on
 Barack Obama ’s popularity to capture his Maryland congressional
 seat  in 2008. Now the Republican he defeated,  Andy Harris ,
counts on opposition to the president to win a rematch.  Harris is one of almost a dozen Republicans in competitive
House races challenging the Democrats who beat them in 2008.  This and other rematches show how the campaign landscape
has shifted, largely due to rising joblessness and a U.S. budget
deficit the Congressional Budget Office says will reach $6.27
trillion in the next decade. Two years ago, Harris contended
with a voter backlash against Republicans, the unpopularity of
President  George W. Bush , a worsening economy and the Mideast
wars. This time, he says, Democrats are on the defensive.  “I just have this philosophy that the pendulum usually
begins swinging back,” Harris, a 53-year-old state senator and
anesthesiologist, said in an interview.  Speaking to workers at  Nutramax Laboratories Inc. , a
pharmaceutical company outside Baltimore, Harris calls Obama’s
economic stimulus wasteful and the health-care plan “medical
malpractice.” He promises more “moderate, methodical”
legislation under two-party rule if Republicans take the House.  The rematches will help decide whether Republicans gain the
39 seats needed to win control.  Harris started planning his race in the Maryland district
that includes the eastern shore of Chesapeake Bay after losing
to Kratovil by 2,852 votes, with 360,480 cast, in 2008. A Sept.
28-30 poll of 400 likely voters by the  Hill  newspaper found
Harris supported by 43 percent, Kratovil, 40 percent, within the
error margin of plus or minus 4.9 percentage points.  Independence Stressed  Kratovil, a first-term representative and former
prosecutor, is fighting to keep his seat with endorsements from
the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  and the  National Rifle Association ,
both of which supported Harris two years ago. He stresses his
independence from fellow Democrats, including his vote against
the health-care overhaul.  “The national mood has some role in the election, but
that’s not the end of the story,” Kratovil, 42, said in an
interview.  He said his 2008 win in a district which Republican
presidential nominee  John McCain  carried with 58 percent of the
voted showed his own appeal to voters. Still, he said “people
have lost a little fire” because Obama isn’t on the ballot.  Won By McCain  One other Democrat in a competitive House rematch
represents a district McCain won by 52 percent in 2008. In
McCain’s home state of Arizona, Democratic Representative  Harry Mitchell  again faces Republican David Schweikert.  Obama carried as much as 57 percent of the vote in the
other rematch districts. In Ohio’s Cincinnati area, Democratic
Representative  Steve Driehaus  trails former Republican
Representative  Steve Chabot  by double digits in opinion polls.
Chabot is focusing on Driehaus’s vote for the health-care law.  In northeast Pennsylvania, 13-term Democrat  Paul Kanjorski 
is on the defensive over his 2008 vote for the $700 billion
financial bailout as he faces Republican Hazelton Mayor  Lou Barletta . In upstate New York, Democratic Representative  Mike Arcuri  is in a close race against Republican businessman Richard
Hanna, campaigning on Arcuri’s vote for the 2009 economic
stimulus.  In many races, the Democrats’ ability to show
independence will decide whether they win, said  Nathan Gonzales ,
political editor of the nonpartisan  Rothenberg Political Report .  “Kratovil doesn’t have a lot of room for error,” Gonzales
said.  Obama’s Agenda  Kratovil supported much of Obama’s agenda in 2008,
including universal health care and middle-class tax relief. In
office, he voted for the economic stimulus, a plan to stem
greenhouse-gas emissions and a financial-rule rewrite.  He opposed the final health-care bill in 2010 because he
said it would create too much uncertainty for business during
the recession. He called for a two-year extension of Bush-era
income tax cuts, including those for the wealthiest people,
putting him in line with Republicans.  While visiting a  Pepsi Bottling Ventures  plant in Salisbury
this month, Kratovil accepted an award for helping keep a tax on
soda pop out of the health-care law. He promised to curb
government spending and taxes on business.  “Probably the most votes I’ve taken against my party have
related to budgetary issues,” he said.  Unemployment Factor  Harris said economic issues that hurt Republicans in 2008
are now working in his favor amid stronger concern about
unemployment. Maryland’s jobless rate was 7.3 percent in August,
compared with 4.6 percent two years earlier though well under
September’s  national rate  of 9.6 percent.  “There was fear of unemployment last time, but this time
it’s not fear, it’s real unemployment with a lot of people
saying there’s no end in sight,” Harris said.  Harris cites other drags on his party in 2008: $4-a-gallon
gasoline, the Iraq war and Bush’s unpopularity  Some predict an uphill battle for Kratovil.  Carlton Bradshaw, 43, an independent from Delmar, said he
will vote for Harris as he did two years ago because he wants
Republicans to control the House to combat Obama’s policies.  “I like Kratovil’s voting record,” he said. “His party
affiliation is really the only reason I won’t vote for him.”  Kratovil also has picked up support with his independence.  “I don’t like the fact that he voted for cap and trade,
but he voted against health-care reform,” said Angelo Monico, a
Republican from Bel Air north of Baltimore. “That showed some
backbone against his party.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  