-- Occidental's Profit Rises on Energy Trading and Chemicals Business Growth
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2010-10-19T18:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/occidental-quarterly-rofit-advance-as-growing-crude-demand-boosts-prices.html
Occidental Petroleum Corp. , the U.S.
oil producer that bought Citigroup Inc.’s Phibro energy-trading
business last year, said third-quarter profit from its trading
and chemical units helped the company beat estimates.  Net income  from continuing operations increased to $1.19
billion, or $1.46 a share, from $927 million, or $1.14, a year
earlier, the Los Angeles-based company said today in a
statement. Per-share profit was 10 cents higher than the average
of 15 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit from Occidental’s midstream and marketing business,
which includes Phibro, pipelines and gas-processing units, more
than doubled from the same period last year. The chemicals unit
also more than doubled its profit, according to the company.  “Oil and gas production was largely in line with our
expectations, so the core business really didn’t drive the
outperformance,” said  Jim Byrne , an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets in Calgary who rates the shares “outperform” and
doesn’t own any.  Oil price “weakness” may keep Occidental’s shares down
today, he said. Crude prices fell as much as 2.9 percent today,
the most in seven weeks, after China raised benchmark interest
rates.  Occidental  fell  $5.18, or 6.1 percent, to $80.27 at 2:02
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock,
which before today had gained 5 percent this year, has 17 buy
 ratings  from analysts and four holds.  Futures Prices  Occidental’s sales rose 19 percent to $4.9 billion. The
company said it increased oil and natural-gas production by 6.5
percent to the equivalent of 751,000 barrels of crude a day.
Occidental received $70.71 a barrel for oil, a 13 percent
increase from the price for the same period last year.  Oil futures traded in New York climbed 12 percent from a
year ago to average $76.21 a barrel during the July-to-September
period.  Demand  for crude in the U.S., the world’s largest oil
consumer, rose enough to fill a supertanker every five days,
according to Energy Department figures.  “Crude demand improved for the second consecutive
quarter,”  Brian M. Gibbons , a New York-based analyst at
CreditSights Inc., said in an Oct. 15 note to clients.  Occidental may reevaluate its U.S. gas drilling plan for
2011, and it likely will slow gas drilling in the Rockies
next year, Chief Operating Officer  Stephen I. Chazen  said today
on an investor conference call. Chazen said the company is
shifting to more of an oil base in the intermediate term because
of low gas prices.  Spending on Acquisitions  Occidental spent $1.1 billion on acquisitions in the third
quarter and sees spending another $300 million in the first part
of the current quarter, Chazen said.  The purchases will add 10,000 barrels of oil equivalent to
average daily output in the fourth quarter and at least 25,000
barrels a day during the next three years, he said.  Chazen said the bulk of the acquisitions were in the
Permian Basin, an oil and gas formation in New Mexico and Texas.
Occidental plans to add 380,000 acres in California and an
interest in 100,000 acres in other producing areas, he said.  Occidental’s production is expected to be 760,000 to
770,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in the fourth quarter,
if prices are at third-quarter average levels, Chazen said.  Chazen will become chief executive officer when current CEO
 Ray R. Irani  steps down in May, the company said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Odessa, Texas, at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 