-- Oil Rises on U.S. Fuel Stockpile Drop; Chinese Demand to Climb
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-10-20T06:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/oil-below-80-after-tumbling-most-in-eight-months-on-china-rate-increase.html
Crude rose, recouping part of the
biggest loss in eight months, on signs that U.S. fuel stockpiles
are shrinking and speculation that China’s economy will continue
to drive oil demand.  Futures gained as much as 1 percent after declining 4.3
percent yesterday, the biggest drop since Feb. 4. An unexpected
rate hike yesterday by the Chinese central bank may lure more
capital to the country as investors seek better returns. The U.S.
Energy Department may show gasoline stockpiles fell 1.5 million
barrels, according a  Bloomberg News survey  before a report today.  “So far the measures taken by Beijing haven’t been the
equivalent of slamming the brakes on the economy,”  Victor Shum ,
a senior principal at consultants Purvin & Gertz Inc. in
Singapore, said in an interview. “The product inventory moves
have been in the right direction so if that continues
inventories will be chewed up.”  The November contract, which expires today, was up 59 cents
to $80.08 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange at 2:31 p.m. Singapore time. Yesterday it
fell $3.59 to $79.49. The more-actively traded December contract
rose 79 cents, or 1 percent, to $80.95. Futures are up 0.9
percent this year.  China’s central bank yesterday raised borrowing costs for
the first time since 2007, lifting the benchmark one-year
lending rate to 5.56 percent from 5.31 percent. The move came to
slow gains in property prices and curb lending by banks.  Steps taken by the government earlier this year to slow
China’s economy haven’t impacted oil and fuel demand. The
country’s crude  imports  climbed to a record 23.29 million metric
tons in September, passing the previous high set in June.  China Confidence  “The rate decision reflects continued confidence in
China’s macroeconomic performance and demand for oil, which
should be positive for prices in the long run,”  Mark Pervan ,
head of commodity research at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. in Melbourne, said in a note today.  Brent crude oil for December settlement increased as much
as 80 cents, or 1 percent, to $81.80 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Yesterday it slipped $3.27,
or 3.9 percent, to $81.10.  Oil climbed as the dollar reversed three days of gains
against the euro on speculation Federal Reserve policy makers
will take more credit-easing measures. The greenback dropped 0.4
percent to $1.3786 to the euro.  Crude is also gaining on signs that U.S. fuel demand is
rebounding from last year’s slump.  U.S. gasoline demand rose 2.7 percent last week, the
largest week-to-week jump since May 28, MasterCard Inc. said in
its SpendingPulse report.  Motorists bought an average 9.26 million barrels of fuel a
day in the week ended Oct. 15, the second-biggest payments
network company said. Fuel use was the highest since Aug. 20.  U.S. Inventories  U.S. crude inventories increased by 2.3 million barrels
last week, according to the industry-funded American Petroleum
Institute. A U.S. Energy Department report today may show oil
 stockpiles rose  1.5 million barrels last week, according to the
median of analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline inventories dropped 83,000 barrels last week, the
API said. Distillate fuel stockpiles including heating oil and
diesel fell 854,000 barrels.  The institute collects stockpile information on a voluntary
basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines.
The government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell in Singapore at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 