-- Oil Falls From Two-Week High as U.S. Crude Stockpiles Forecast to Increase
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-10-19T10:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/oil-falls-from-two-week-high-as-u-s-production-drops-stockpiles-increase.html
Oil dropped as traders bet that U.S.
crude stockpiles swelled to their highest levels since June
because of refinery maintenance and a slowdown in fuel demand.  Futures retraced some of yesterday’s 2.3 percent gain before
tomorrow’s Energy Department report, which may show that crude
inventories climbed 1.5 million barrels last week. About 15
percent of service stations are without fuel in France as a
strike to protest social security legislation halts operations
at the country’s refineries.  “The U.S. is oversupplied for the moment. It’s pretty
bad,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodity research at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “I don’t think the effects of the
French strikes are positive for the market. It might lead to
lower demand because these refineries are not asking for
crude.”  Oil for November delivery lost as much as 71 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $82.37 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, and was at $82.73 at 11:45 a.m. London
time. The contract expires tomorrow. The more-actively traded
December contract slipped 44 cents to $83.36. Brent crude for
December settlement fell 45 cents to $83.92 a barrel on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  In France, unions have stepped up pressure on President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  to retreat from a plan to raise the retirement
age to 62 from 60. Truckers blocked highways and police were
deployed to prevent strikers from stopping fuel deliveries.  Diesel Shortages  Total SA, Europe’s biggest refiner, said about 400 of the
4,000 service stations it operates in France had run out of some
products yesterday. Diesel, which powers 77 percent of cars sold
in France, is the product with the biggest shortfall, they said.  “The fundamentals haven’t really improved by a great
deal,” said  Serene Lim , a commodity analyst at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Singapore. “Inventories have been
on the high range of the five-year average, so there are
substantial supplies.”  U.S. industrial production fell for the first time since
the recession ended in June 2009, Federal Reserve data showed
yesterday. Economists had forecast an increase. September output
at U.S. factories, mines and utilities slipped 0.2 percent,
according to the Fed.  Crude stockpiles will probably gain after refiners shut
units for maintenance before winter fuel demand rises. U.S.
refineries  operated  at 81.9 percent of capacity in the week
ended Oct. 8, the lowest level since March, the Energy
Department said last week. Capacity levels were probably 82.2
percent last week, according to the Bloomberg survey.  Gasoline stockpiles slipped 1.4 million barrels, or 0.6
percent, from 218.2 million, the survey showed. The drop would
leave supplies at the lowest level since December. All of the
respondents projected a decline.  Stockpiles of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, probably slid 1 million barrels, or 0.6
percent, from 172.2 million, the survey showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net 
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  