-- Oligarchs' M&A Power Shown by TNK-BP Bond Rally After Deal: Russia Credit
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-10-19T14:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/oligarchs-m-a-power-shown-by-tnk-bp-bond-rally-after-deal-russia-credit.html
The rally in  TNK-BP  and VimpelCom
Ltd. bonds is underscoring confidence in Russia’s billionaire
businessmen to revive acquisitions from a five-year low.  TNK-BP’s dollar bonds due in 2012 surged for a second day,
sending yields down 20 basis points to a record-low 3.08
percent, after BP Plc’s venture said yesterday it will spend
$1.8 billion for BP assets in Venezuela and Vietnam, prices on
Bloomberg show. VimpelCom’s Oct. 4 accord to purchase phone
assets from Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  in a $6.5
billion deal also drove yields on the Moscow-based company’s
debt to a low.  Mikhail Fridman , Russia’s third-richest man, was
 behind  both deals.  Takeovers are climbing after an 86 percent slump in foreign
purchases by Russian companies this year to $17.1 billion of
deals, trailing the $33.9 billion by Indian companies and $29.3
billion out of Brazil, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
advances in TNK-BP and VimpelCom securities compare with losses
on bonds in Europe and the U.S. after some of the year’s biggest
acquisitions on concern the purchases may damage credit.  “TNK-BP’s financial metrics are quite comfortable,”  Elena Anankina , an analyst at Standard & Poor’s in Moscow, said
yesterday in an e-mail. Free operating cash flow covers 53
percent of outstanding debt, she said. The company had net debt
of $5.8 billion at the end of June, according to TNK-BP’s
website.  Billionaires  Oil prices above $80 a barrel through this month are
helping to lift Russia’s economy after its worst recession since
the Soviet era. Economic growth in the world’s largest energy
exporter is forecast by the government at 4 percent this year.
Deputy Economy Ministry  Andrei Klepach  said Oct. 6 that the
country will have to “fight” to achieve growth of 3.9 percent
to 4.5 percent in the next three years.  Billionaires  Viktor Vekselberg ,  Len Blavatnik ,  German Khan 
and  Mikhail Fridman , whose Alfa Group owns 39 percent of
 VimpelCom , control half of TNK-BP through a company called AAR.
BP, based in London, owns the other 50 percent, according to
TNK’s  web site .  Fridman said last month the Russian shareholders’
relationship with BP has improved since a dispute in 2008 over
management and expansion. The billionaires said at the time that
BP treated the venture as a branch and stymied attempts to
expand overseas. Then TNK-BP Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley , who denied the accusations, fled Russia two years ago
after heading the venture for five years, citing “sustained
harassment” and amid difficulty renewing his visa. Dudley took
over as head of BP on Oct. 1.  Diversification  “One of TNK-BP’s bigger problems is its dependence on
Russia, so anything that can change that is a positive for
investors,” said  Neil Murray , the head of corporate bonds at
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership in Edinburgh who manages
the equivalent of $3.8 billion including TNK-BP bonds.  “It
diversifies their business.”  TNK-BP accounts for about a quarter of BP’s output, a fifth
of reserves and an eighth of group profits, according to
 Vladimir Buyanov , a Moscow-based spokesman for BP.  Russia and Venezuela, which signed an accord to support
TNK-BP’s acquisition of the assets in the South American
country, are “strategic partners,” President  Dmitry Medvedev 
said last week during a visit by his counterpart  Hugo Chavez  to
Moscow.  ‘Ample Debt Capacity’  “TNK-BP has sufficient cash flow and ample debt capacity
to pay for these assets,”  Stan Polovets , chief executive
officer of AAR, the Moscow-based consortium made of holding
companies Alfa Group, Access Industries and Renova Group, said
in an interview this month. “Finding the cash for these assets
is not going to be a problem.”  The venture is also looking at buying BP assets in Algeria,
which may cost about $3 billion, TNK-BP Deputy CEO  Maxim Barsky 
said Oct. 6 in Algiers. TNK-BP may have to increase its debt
burden to buy those assets, Trust Investment Bank said yesterday
in a note.  TNK-BP may have $7.5 billion in cash flow from operations
this year and expects to pay dividends of about $3 billion after
the acquisition, Polovets said. Standard & Poor’s raised TNK-
BP’s rating one level to BBB-, its lowest investment-grade
ranking, in December. Yields on TNK-BP bonds due in 2012 have
dropped from as high as 32.997 percent on Oct. 27, 2008.  VimpelCom Bonds Rally  VimpelCom’s bonds rallied on prospects the Sawiris merger
will transform the Russian company into the world’s fifth-
largest mobile phone operator. The enlarged company would have a
subscriber base of more than 174 million, and give the Russian
company access to markets in Africa and the Middle East,
according to its statement on Oct. 4.  Yields on VimpelCom securities due in 2013 fell to a low of
4.66 percent the following day and are at 4.75 percent today,
down from 5.91 percent on Aug. 26. Shares of VimpelCom, rated
BB+ by S&P, one level below investment grade, have risen 3.8
percent in New York since the announcement.  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 were little changed
today, with the yield at 4.24 percent. The yield on the
country’s ruble notes due August 2016 climbed 1 basis point, or
0.01 percent, to 7.13 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 8 basis points to 198,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes. The difference
compares with 149 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 180 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s
Investor Services.  Cost of Protection  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 52 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps increased 2 basis points
to 136 yesterday, according to data provider CMA. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade, cost the
same for the similar contracts for Turkey.  The ruble depreciated 0.4 percent to 30.5850 per dollar,
the weakest closing price since Sept. 24. Non-deliverable
forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to expectations of
currency movements and interest rate differentials and allow
companies to hedge against currency movements, show the ruble at
30.8438 in three months.  Happy Holders  Yields on Novartis AG’s $3 billion of 5.125 percent notes
due 2019 rose 32 basis points relative to government bonds to as
high as 105 basis points about a month after the  Basel,
Switzerland-based drugmaker  said on Jan. 4 that it would triple
its stake in eye-care company Alcon Inc., according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. Novartis completed the $28.3 billion
purchase from Nestle SA in August. The debt currently trades at
a spread of 88 basis points.  Relative yields on CenturyLink Inc.’s $500 million of 6
percent notes due 2017 rose 65 basis points to as high as 282
basis points a month after the Monroe, Louisiana-based company,
formerly known as CenturyTel, agreed to buy Qwest
Communications, Inc. for $22 billion, according to generic
Bloomberg prices.  CenturyLink  agreed to buy Qwest in April and
the securities now trade at a spread of 324 basis points.  The extra yield investors demand to hold TNK-BP’s dollar
bonds due 2020 rather than Russian sovereign dollar bonds with
similar maturity narrowed 10 basis points to 147 since July 28
when state-run Petroleos de Venezuela SA said BP was discussing
selling assets in the South American country to TNK-BP.  “We think that the bonds are still relatively cheap,”
said Murray at Scottish Widows. “We bought ours when they were
issued, and we’re still happy holders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  