-- Kaczynski Blames Prime Minister's `Hate Campaign' For Polish Party Killing
-- B y   N a t h a n i e l   E s p i n o   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-10-19T14:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/one-person-stabbed-to-death-in-attack-on-polish-opposition-party-s-office.html
Polish opposition leader  Jaroslaw Kaczynski  said a “campaign of hate” by people including Prime
Minister  Donald Tusk  led to the shooting death of a party
employee today.  Marek Rosiak, 62, was shot dead at the Law & Justice
party’s office in Lodz, Poland, and Pawel Kowalski, 39, was
wounded, Kaczynski and police spokespeople said. A 62-year-old
man has been detained as a suspect, Magdalena Zielinska, a law
enforcement spokeswoman in the central Polish city, said at a
news conference carried live on the TVN24 television station.  “What happened is a result of the great campaign of hate
that is being waged against Law & Justice,” Kaczynski said at a
separate news conference carried live on TVN24. “It’s difficult
to say when exactly it started, but Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s
comments about ‘mohair berets’” as clothing associated with Law
and Justice supporters “were certainly the beginning.”  Law and Justice, founded by Kaczynski and his identical
twin brother, former Polish President  Lech Kaczynski , had 23
percent support in an Oct. 7-13 poll by  the Center for Public
Research .  That’s the same rating as in September, which was the
lowest since March, a month before Lech was killed in a plane
crash. Tusk’s Civic Platform had 39 percent in the October poll.  Kaczynski cited other alleged instances of a hate campaign,
including confrontations with mourners who held a vigil in his
brother’s memory at the presidential palace.  Profanation, Beatings  “As the police looked on, the cross was profaned, people
were beaten, and Prime Minister Tusk was delighted,” he said.  Tusk called for an end to the “atmosphere of antagonism.”  “I’d like to ask of all participants in public life,
without exception, that political emotions take second place to
serious reflection and to determination that this kind of
situation won’t recur,” he said at a news conference in Warsaw.  TVN 24 showed video of a suspect, his features blurred,
being bundled into a police car.  “I wanted to kill Kaczynski, but I didn’t have a big
enough gun,” the man told the officers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nathaniel Espino  in Warsaw 
 nespino@bloomberg.net 
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  