-- Monetary Policy in South Africa Expected to Stay Accomodative, Marcus Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-10-19T13:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/monetary-policy-in-south-africa-expected-to-stay-accomodative-marcus-says.html
South Africa Reserve Bank Governor
 Gill Marcus  said she expects monetary policy to remain
“relatively accommodative for some time” as the strength of
the rand helps contain inflation.  The rand has climbed 35 percent against the dollar since
the beginning of 2009, reducing the cost of fuel and other
imports and helping to keep inflation within the 3 to 6 percent
target range since February. That enabled the bank to cut the
benchmark  interest rate  by half a percentage point to 6 percent
last month, the eighth reduction since December 2008.  “Inflation is at a five-year low of 3.5 percent and we
expect it to remain within the inflation target until at least
the end of 2012,” Marcus said at a function hosted by trade and
investment promotion agency Wesgro in Cape Town today.
“Monetary policy is expected to remain relatively accommodative
for some time.”  Near-zero interest rates in the U.S., Japan and the euro
region have fueled demand for high-yielding assets in emerging
markets such as South Africa, bolstering their currencies and
undermining the competitiveness of exports. Foreigners have
bought a net 88.6 billion rand ($12.7 billion) in stocks and
bonds this year, according to data from JSE Ltd., which operates
the country’s stock exchange.  “There is no doubt that the rand is over-valued relative
to its fundamentals, although the extent of the over-valuation
is uncertain,” Marcus said. “The challenge is what can be done
about it. While we clearly recognize the problem, the solution
is not clear-cut.”  Currency Reserves  Since the beginning of 2009, South Africa’s central bank
has increased gross gold and foreign currency  reserves  by $10.4
billion to $44.1 billion in a bid to curtail the rand’s gains.  “Direct intervention is expensive and not always
effective,” Marcus said. “Controls on capital flows also have
a questionable track record. Some of these policies may be
effective in the short run, or in changing the composition or
maturity of flows, but are less effective in the long run as the
market finds ways of circumventing them.”  Over the past few days the central bank absorbed foreign
currency flows related to Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corp.’s
takeover of Dimension Data Plc, in line with its policy of
purchasing foreign direct investment proceeds, Marcus said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 