-- Hong Kong Lobbies for Time for Hedge Funds to Meet New EU Rules
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2010-10-19T02:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/hong-kong-lobbies-for-dual-regime-to-enable-hedge-funds-to-meet-eu-rules.html
  Hong Kong ’s government is in talks
with the European Union to help hedge-fund managers in the city
cope with proposed regulations that may make it harder to raise
assets in Europe.  Hong Kong is lobbying the EU for a “dual regime” which
would allow the current system under which they raise assets to
continue for “a number of transition years” before complying
with Europe’s “passport regime,” said Julia Leung, Hong Kong’s
undersecretary of financial services and the treasury.  “If the threshold is set too high for assets into the EU
market, then it will disrupt our business,” Leung said today at
the Hedge Funds Asia Summit hosted by Bloomberg Link in Hong
Kong.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, proposed
rules last year to regulate hedge-fund and private-equity
managers, which would restrict bonuses and require investment
strategies to be disclosed to regulators.  EU officials have proposed a “passport” law that would
force funds based outside the EU to comply with the commission’s
rules if they want to market themselves to investors in the 27-
nation bloc. Germany and France are seeking to block the
proposal, with  France  opposed to giving pan-EU marketing rights
to funds run offshore, preferring member states keep control of
products sold in their markets, the Financial Times reported
last month.  “Certainly it would be very unfair if local managers are
asked to adapt regulation meant for European managers just
because we take money from  Europe ,” said Christophe Lee, Hong
Kong-based managing director at FrontPoint Partners LLC, the
Morgan Stanley hedge-fund unit. He was speaking at the same
conference in Hong Kong today.  ‘Massive’ Effect  “The regulation in Hong Kong is regarded as very fair,
transparent, predictable and it works,” said Lee, who is also
chairman of the Hong Kong chapter of the Alternative Investment
Management Association.  The European directive “has a protectionist effect,” Lee
said. “This could result in a tit for tat trade war of some
sort. Anything with the word war in it, there are no winners so
we must avoid that scenario.”  Han Ming Ho, a partner at  Clifford Chance , one of the first
international law firms awarded a Singapore license, said “new
legislation in the U.S. and Europe will have a ‘‘massive
extraterritorial effect’’ on Asian hedge-fund managers who rely
on investors there for capital. Ho is also chairman of the  Singapore  branch of the Alternative Investment Management
Association.  Banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. are complying with the Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul act
in the U.S. that prohibits them from risking capital by betting
for their own accounts. The law also seeks to force hedge-fund
advisers to register with regulators, with those managing more
than $100 million set to face oversight from the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Those with smaller portfolios will be
overseen by the states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  