-- Origin Finds Traces of Banned Petroleum Compound in Queensland Gas Wells
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-10-19T08:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/origin-finds-traces-of-banned-petroleum-compound-in-queensland-gas-wells.html
Origin Energy Ltd. , partner with
 ConocoPhillips  in a proposed liquefied natural gas venture in
Australia, said it found traces of banned chemicals in samples
taken from eight coal-seam gas exploration wells.  The LNG venture has advised regulators of the results and
agreed to independent testing at the sites in Queensland’s Surat
Basin where the traces of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and
xylene -- together known as BTEX -- were found, Origin said in a
statement to the stock exchange today.  Origin and  ConocoPhillips  plan a A$35 billion ($34.6
billion) project to extract gas from coal seams for conversion
into LNG and export to Asia. Environment Minister  Tony Burke  is
due to decide by Oct. 22 whether to approve rival LNG ventures
in Queensland proposed by  Santos Ltd.  and BG Group Plc.  Drilling of exploration wells will only continue “upon a
satisfactory resolution,” Origin said.  The Queensland state government said Oct. 5 it is committed
to enforcing a ban on compounds containing benzene and toluene
from coal-seam gas operations.  The Origin and  ConocoPhillips  project isn’t using BTEX in
the process used to fracture rock and release the gas, the
Sydney-based company said. Testing is underway to determine the
source of the substance found in oil-based products, it said.  There is no evidence of any impact on surrounding
landholders’ water supplies, Origin said.  BTEX compounds have been used in overseas oil and gas
operations during what is known as the fraccing process,
according to the Queensland government. Fraccing involves
pumping fluid at high pressure to fracture the coal seam and
allow gas to flow into the well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  