-- Moscow May Sell Assets When Putin's Man Takes Charge of Capital
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2010-10-20T11:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/moscow-may-sell-banks-airline-when-putin-deputy-replaces-luzhkov-as-mayor.html
Moscow may sell stakes in companies
from banks to airlines when Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s
chief of staff,  Sergei Sobyanin , replaces  Yury Luzhkov  as mayor
of the Russian capital.  “Privatization will be pursued very actively under the new
mayor,” said  Olga Kryshtanovskaya , a sociologist who studies
Russia’s elites. “All profitable assets will go on the block,
such as airlines, real estate companies and possibly Vnukovo
Airport.”  The federal government plans to raise $10 billion annually
for the next five years from asset sales to help close a budget
deficit estimated at 5.3 percent of economic output. While
Moscow’s government is running a shortfall of 120 billion rubles
($3.9 billion) on spending of 1.1 trillion rubles, Luzhkov
hadn’t joined the privatization drive before President  Dmitry Medvedev  fired him Sept. 28, citing a “loss of confidence.”  First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said on Oct. 8
that selling assets belonging to cities such as Moscow and St.
Petersburg could generate 300 billion rubles a year, about the
same as the federal government plans to raise.  The city directly and indirectly owns  63.8 percent  of Bank
of Moscow, according to the lender’s website. Bank of Moscow in
turn owns 65.9 percent of OAO Mosvodokanalbank. The city also
holds stakes in ZAO Mosstroieconombank and Atlant-Soyuz airline.  Banks, Airlines  Bank of Moscow shares have risen 0.6 percent to 980 rubles
since Sobyanin was nominated Oct. 15, compared with a 0.2
percent decline in Russia’s Micex Index. The yield on the bank’s
6.699 percent dollar bond due in 2015 rose 30 basis points in
the period, while the yield on Russian government benchmark
dollar bonds of similar maturity advanced 6 basis points.  Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin , who frequently clashed with
Luzhkov, said Oct. 9 that Moscow could  sell stakes  to fund
social programs.  “There are two banks held by the Moscow government,” he
said. “There are aviation companies. It’s been a long time
since other regions owned commercial concerns” such as
construction companies, he said.  Luzhkov, 74, was fired after weeks of media reports that
accused him of corruption and favoritism toward his wife,
billionaire developer  Yelena Baturina .  ‘Provincial’ Chief  The former mayor’s 18-year tenure was characterized by
“opposing himself” to the federal government as though he were
a “provincial” leader,  Vladislav Surkov , Medvedev’s deputy
chief of staff, said in an interview with the newspaper Vzgliad.  Luzhkov denied the allegations, telling the Moscow-based
magazine The New Times that he never acted in a “criminal way”
and the charges against him were politically motivated. Baturina
said she never received preferential treatment from the city.  Luzhkov resisted former President  Boris Yeltsin ’s voucher
and loans-for-shares programs, used to privatize state assets in
the 1990s, a stand that earned plaudits even from his critics.  “It was positive that he retained Moscow’s property for
the city in the 1990s,” said  Sergei Mitrokhin , a leader of the
opposition Yabloko party. “Everything was being sold at
knockdown prices.”  Sobyanin, 52, was governor of his native Tyumen region in
Siberia for four years before Putin, then president, brought him
to Moscow as Kremlin chief of staff in 2005. When Putin became
prime minister in 2008, he took Sobyanin with him.  Tax Income  While Sobyanin is Putin’s “right-hand man,” he’s also
acceptable to Medvedev and the “financial and industrial groups
that matter to both men,” said  Mikhail Remizov , president of
the Moscow-based Institute for National Strategy.  Asset sales may help the city offset falling tax revenue
that could result if Sobyanin loosens Luzhkov’s hold on income
from Moscow-based companies including OAO Sberbank and OAO
Russian Railways, said  Vladimir Klimanov , director of the
Institute for Public Finance Reform.  “There will be a redistribution of tax income, and Moscow
may lose as much as 10 percent of budget revenue,” Klimanov
said. Eighty-five percent of Moscow’s revenue comes from profit
and personal income taxes generated by the concentration of
companies with headquarters in the city, he said.  The federal government has long planned to share the
capital’s wealth with other parts of the country, Klimanov said.
Moscow accounted for 23.8 percent of Russia’s  gross domestic
product  in 2008, the last year for which data is available,
according to the Federal State Statistics Service.  Putin’s Party  Kudrin said Russia’s federal government has begun taking
more revenue from wealthy regions, such as Moscow, and
distributing it to less prosperous areas.  “We can’t achieve equal revenue in Moscow and Kalmykia or
Tuva, so the equalization goes up to 85 percent of the national
average,” he said, referring to two of Russia’s poorest
regions.  Medvedev picked Sobyanin from a list of four candidates
proposed by Putin’s United Russia party. Sobyanin must be
approved by the Moscow city council, where United Russia holds
32 of 35 seats. The vote is scheduled for tomorrow.  The mayor must clean up corruption after years of “schemes
that at a minimum raise questions about their legality,”
Medvedev told Sobyanin on Oct. 15 when he informed him of the
nomination. He must also “try to make the economic life of
Moscow more open and more competitive, based on existing law.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Arkhipov  in Moscow at  iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  