-- Manhattan's Landmark Hotel Chelsea Put Up for Sale
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2010-10-19T21:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/hotel-chelsea-landmark-manhattan-home-to-artists-musicians-up-for-sale.html
The Hotel Chelsea, a Manhattan
landmark where  Bob Dylan , Andy Warhol and Eugene O’Neill once
lived, was put up for sale by the families that owned and
operated it for more than 65 years.  “It is time to let a new owner, with perhaps some new
innovative ideas and resources, to re-energize and revitalize
the Chelsea,” Paul Brounstein, a shareholder and board member,
said in a statement today.  The  12-story property  has 125 hotel rooms, including a two-
bedroom, two-bathroom suite where movie star Marilyn Monroe
lived with playwright Arthur Miller. There are also 101
residential units, which include tenants who have lived in the
building for decades and some who pay rent with their original
artwork, general manager Arnold Tamasar said in an interview.  The corporation that owns the building, Chelsea 23rd St.
Corp., hired Eastdil Secured LLC to market the hotel. In its
listing, Eastdil touts the building’s “iconic status” and 800
square-foot (74 square-meter) rooms that a new owner could
subdivide to increase the number of income-generating units.  “The name and history surely will add to the valuation of
the place,” said  Patrick Scholes , an analyst at FBR Capital
Markets in New York. “The price will be based on how much
income this hotel can make. Will people be willing to spend a
few more dollars to stay in a room Marilyn Monroe or Andy Warhol
slept in? Sure.”  Private Investor  The property is likely to appeal to a private investor
rather than public  real estate investment trusts , which tend to
favor well-known brands, Scholes said.  The average unit size at the property is 575 square feet,
according to the Eastdil listing. About a quarter of the units
are bigger than 800 square feet.  “Given the property’s current configuration, flexible
zoning, and ability to increase the number of keys, the
opportunity provides investors a number of potential
redevelopment and repositioning strategies,” reads the listing.  The hotel, located on West 23rd Street in the Chelsea
neighborhood, was New York’s tallest building when it was built
in 1883, according to the statement. It has 17,000 square feet
of retail space and an 8,000-square-foot roof terrace that
overlooks the East and Hudson rivers.  The building, converted into a hotel in 1905, attracted
artists and writers throughout the 20th century. The famous
guests and long-term residents included writer Thomas Wolfe,
poet Allen Ginsberg and musicians Janis Joplin, Leonard Cohen,
Jimi Hendrix and Jim Morrison.  It was also the site where Nancy Spungen, girlfriend of Sex
Pistols bassist Sid Vicious, was found stabbed to death in 1978,
and where writer Dylan Thomas died of alcohol poisoning in 1953,
according to the hotel’s website.  “Whoever is going to buy it will likely keep the uniqueness
of this hotel,” Scholes said. “It’s an iconic property.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Prashant Gopal  in New York at 
 Pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 