-- Tour de France Sees Anti-Doping Progress as Contador Misses Route Ceremony
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-10-19T12:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/tour-de-france-sees-anti-doping-progress-as-contador-misses-route-ceremony.html
Tour de France co-owner Jean-Etienne
Amaury said cycling is making progress against doping as the
route for the 2011 race was unveiled today without defending
champion  Alberto Contador , who is suspended.  Three-time winner Contador last month tested positive for a
“very small concentration” of clenbuterol, a banned drug,
according to cycling’s ruling body Union Cycliste
Internationale. The Spaniard blamed the result on eating
contaminated beef. The UCI is investigating further before
deciding whether to open disciplinary proceedings.  Contador could become the second Tour de France winner in
four years to lose his title.  Floyd Landis  of the U.S. was
stripped of the 2006 crown when found to have elevated levels of
synthetic testosterone.  “We’ve been in a fight against doping for several years,”
Amaury, president of race organizer Amaury Sport Organisation,
said in comments broadcast on the Internet. “Every year the
fight makes progress” thanks to the UCI and the World Anti-
Doping Agency, Amaury added.  This year’s runner-up  Andy Schleck  and 2008 winner  Carlos Sastre  were among riders to attend today’s ceremony in Paris.  Next year’s race will start on France’s west coast on July
2. It begins from Passage du Gois, a causeway joining the island
of Noirmoutier to the mainland. In 1999,  Lance Armstrong  gained
as much as six minutes on some rivals after a pile-up on the
2.8-mile path on the way to winning the first of his seven
titles.  Col du Tourmalet  After passing through Brittany and Normandy in northern
France, the race will head to the Pyrenees. On stage 12, riders
will scale the Col du Tourmalet, a highlight of this year’s
race. The only excursion outside France in the 98th edition will
see cyclists move into Italy with stage 17 finishing in
Pinerolo, southwest of Turin.  Cyclists will scale the 2,645-meter Col du Galibier in the
Alps twice in the final week and the race may reach a climax on
L’Alpe d’Huez two days before the July 24 finish in Paris. One
of the most celebrated mountains with 21 hairpin bends on the
final ascent, it’s where Sastre snatched the lead in 2008 on the
way to victory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  