-- Housing Starts Rise to Five-Month High in Sign of Stabilization
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-10-19T20:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/housing-starts-in-u-s-unexpectedly-gain-to-five-month-high-permits-slump.html
Builders  in the U.S. unexpectedly
began work on more homes in September, a sign the real estate
market was stabilizing at depressed levels heading into the
recent upheaval in the foreclosure crisis.  Housing starts  rose to a 610,000 annual rate, the most
since April and up 0.3 percent from a revised 608,000 rate in
August that was higher than previously estimated, Commerce
Department figures showed today in Washington.  Building permits 
dropped to the lowest level in more than a year as a plunge in
the volatile multifamily area overshadowed a gain in single-
family applications.  The industry that precipitated the worst recession since
the 1930s may be steadying after a government tax credit pulled
demand into late 2009 and early this year. At the same time,
foreclosure moratoria caused by faulty documentation at some of
the nation’s biggest banks, near record-low home sales and a
lack of jobs mean any rebound will take time to develop.  “At least we’re making some progress here,” said  John Herrmann , senior fixed income strategist at State Street Global
Markets in Boston, who forecast starts at 605,000. “It’s a
slow, steady-as-she-goes improvement in builder activity.”  Stocks slumped on growing concern banks will be forced to
buy back soured mortgages and Apple Inc. forecast profit that
missed analysts’ estimates. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell
1.6 percent to 1,165.9 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The S&P
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index dropped 0.7 percent after
having been up as much as 2.8 percent hours after the housing
data.  Median Forecast  The  median forecast  of 71 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected September starts would drop to a 580,000 annual
pace from a previously estimated 598,000 rate in August.
Estimates ranged from 550,000 to 624,000.  Building permits, a proxy for future construction,
decreased 5.6 percent to a 539,000 annual rate in September, the
lowest level since April 2009. Applications for multifamily
units dropped 20 percent, while those for single-family homes
climbed 0.5 percent.  The number of single-family permits was lower than starts
last month, which climbed 4.4 percent from August to a 452,000
annual pace, and the most since May. The level of permits raises
the risk that construction will drop off in coming months.  Work on multifamily homes, such as townhouses and apartment
buildings, fell 9.7 percent to an annual pace of 158,000 after
surging 42 percent the prior month.  Sales have see-sawed as a result of the government
incentive that was worth up to $8,000. Purchases contracts had
to be signed by the end of April to qualify for the tax break.
After reaching a 19-month high 414,000 annual rate in April,
sales of  new houses  plunged to a record low 282,000 pace in May.  Foreclosure Crisis  With foreclosures reaching a record in September, U.S.
regulators last week said they were investigating whether
employees of lenders including Ally Financial Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and  Bank of America Corp . falsified documents used
in the proceedings. Ally Financial and JPMorgan are among banks
that have suspended some foreclosures or evictions to review
paperwork, which may further delay a recovery in housing.  The mishandling of foreclosures may push “a few buyers”
into the market for new houses,  Ken Mayland , president of
ClearView Economics LLC in Pepper Pike, Ohio, said in a note to
clients. “But the prospects for new homebuilding are either
flat, or a slight rise, with those prospects tightly constrained
by the huge foreclosure overhang, scandal or not.”  Obama’s Concern  The Obama administration is concerned that halting
foreclosures would hold up home sales, postponing a recovery in
the housing market, White House Press Secretary  Robert Gibbs 
said last week.  With the approaching Nov. 2 congressional elections,
Americans continue to have a dimmer view of Congress and
President  Barack Obama ’s handling of the economy. Obama’s job
approval in the week ended Oct. 17 was 45 percent, compared with
an average 57 percent last year, according to a poll from
Princeton, New Jersey-based Gallup.  Housing’s inability to rebound is one reason the economic
recovery hasn’t strengthened.  Ben S. Bernanke  is among policy
makers that have said the too-slow recovery has kept the jobless
rate too high and inflation too low. The chairman of the Federal
Reserve last week said additional monetary measures may be
needed to spur growth.  Fed Speculation  Speculation that the central bank may pursue large-scale
asset purchases has pushed down yields on U.S. Treasury
securities, driving  mortgage rates  to record lows.  Builders this month were less pessimistic. The National
Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo’s  confidence index 
released yesterday rose in October to the highest level in four
months. Nonetheless, the reading of 16 was well short of the 50
level that would signal the outlook is equally balanced between
optimists and pessimists.  KB Home , the Los Angeles-based homebuilder that focuses on
first-time buyers, last month reported a smaller third-quarter
loss as revenue increased for the first time in almost four
years. KB has been cutting costs amid the slump in sales and is
seeking to lure buyers with houses that are smaller and less
expensive than older designs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 Bobwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  