-- Low Testosterone Levels Linked to Early Heart Death, Study Says
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2010-10-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/low-testosterone-levels-linked-to-early-death-from-heart-disease-in-study.html
Low testosterone may be linked to
early death in men with heart disease, a study suggests.  Men with low levels of the hormone were almost twice as
likely to die during the study, published today in the U.K.
medical journal  Heart , as those with normal levels.  Testosterone is a hormone that promotes the development of
male reproductive tissue and promotes muscle, bone and hair
growth. Levels at the high end of a normal range have been
associated with lower levels of blood fats and cholesterol,
obesity, glucose intolerance and diabetes, the researchers said.
The abuse of testosterone, which can be taken as a supplement,
is linked to increased risks of cardiovascular disease and
sudden death, they said.  “Emerging data suggest that reduced testosterone levels in
men may be associated with increased cardiovascular risk,”
Ronald Ma and Peter Tong of the  Chinese University of Hong Kong 
said in an accompanying editorial.  The research, led by  Kevin Channer  of the Royal Hallamshire
Hospital in Sheffield, England, involved 930 men with coronary
heart disease for a period of about seven years. A quarter of
the men were found to have low testosterone. During the study,
one in five patients with low testosterone died, compared with
one in eight of those with normal levels.  The authors couldn’t say whether the hormone was the cause
of death, or a marker of an underlying, undetected disease.  Ma and Tong called for a review of testosterone replacement
therapy.  “There has been a marked increase in prescription of
testosterone over recent years," they wrote. "While the long
term cardiovascular impact of testosterone supplement in those
with low levels remains to be demonstrated, accumulating
evidence suggests there is a sound basis for examining this."  The research was funded by the South Sheffield Charitable
Trust.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eva von Schaper  in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 