-- Toy, Jewelry Industries Urged by U.S. Safety Commission to Limit Cadmium
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2010-10-19T23:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/toy-jewelry-industries-urged-by-u-s-safety-commission-to-limit-cadmium.html
The toy and jewelry industries are
being urged by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission to
establish limits for the toxic metal cadmium, which can lead to
liver and kidney damage if ingested.  The agency’s staff, citing government research in letters
today, asked the industry standard-setting body,  ASTM
International , to revise its safety rules to eliminate the toxic
metal from toys and children’s jewelry.  “If we find those standards are insufficient to protect
the health and safety of consumers, then we can move to a
mandatory standard,” CPSC Chairman  Inez Tenenbaum  said today on
a conference call with reporters.  Retailers such as  Dress Barn Inc . and Claire’s Boutiques
Inc. recalled necklaces, earrings and bracelets this year after
finding the products contained cadmium.  McDonald’s Corp.  offered
$3 refunds in June to customers who bought “Shrek” drinking
glasses with high levels of cadmium in the paint.  The staff request for industry action follows months of
testing that indicated danger to children from swallowing small
amounts of cadmium, according to the letters, sent to
representatives of the Toy Industry Association and the Fashion
Jewelry and Accessories Trade Association who lead standard-
setting panels.  The CPSC had been seeking industry comment on possible
rules to limit cadmium levels in consumer products. Instead of
adopting regulations now, the agency is pressing for voluntary
standards for exposure. Tenenbaum said that the agency is
required by law to give industry a chance to craft standards
before the government acts.  Safe Exposures  Agency scientists have concluded that children can safely
ingest 0.1 micrograms per kilogram a day for an extended period,
and 11 micrograms per day at once, Tenenbaum said. CPSC staff is
recommending a test that measures the cadmium produced by
dissolving an item in acid for 24 hours.  The glasses recalled by McDonald’s on June 4 probably
wouldn’t be deemed hazardous using the targets with CPSC’s
suggested testing method, said Jay Howell, director of the
agency’s Office of Hazards Identification.  The fashion jewelry industry is concerned about the
“validity and practicality of lengthy test times,” Brent
Cleaveland, executive director of the  Fashion Jewelry and
Accessories Trade Association , said today in a statement.  Kidneys, Livers  Once cadmium is ingested, it remains in the body,
particularly in the kidneys and liver, for years, according to a
CPSC staff report included with the letters.  Cadmium, used in batteries and metal coatings, can also
cause lung disease through brief inhalation of high
concentrations, according to the Agency for Toxic Substances and
Disease Registry.  Commissioner  Nancy Nord , the senior Republican at the CPSC,
said the agency is using proven testing methods to predict how
products would likely endanger children in the real world.  “This is looking at risk based on exposure, and that is
how we should approach consumer safety.”  The agency said in August that it was considering whether
to grant a petition from four groups led by the Sierra Club
asking that cadmium be banned unless a safe level could be
established.  The groups described a “rising tide of cadmium” in
children’s products as manufacturers sought a “cheap,
unregulated alternative to lead,” which is subject to limits
set by the agency. The Oakland, California-based Center for
Environmental Health and two Rochester, New York-based consumer
groups joined the Sierra Club in the request.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  