-- Ozzie's Departure Fuels Concern About Microsoft's Bench
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2010-10-19T14:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/ozzie-s-departure-from-microsoft-fuels-concern-about-ceo-ballmer-s-bench.html
The departure of  Ray Ozzie  as
Microsoft Corp.’s chief software architect fueled concern that
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  may not be doing enough to
nurture would-be successors and executives who can set strategy.  Ozzie, 54, joined the company in 2005 and was later named
as one of the two executives who would chart vision as co-
Founder  Bill Gates  stepped away from day-to-day operations.  Microsoft announced the resignation of entertainment chief
 Robbie Bach  in May, and Office division head  Stephen Elop  said
last month he was leaving to become CEO of Nokia Oyj. Ballmer
needs to show he has a deep bench of up-and-coming executives
who can help him plan for the long term or run Microsoft in his
absence, said  Michael Gartenberg , an analyst at Gartner Inc.  “When multiple people depart from a given manager, at a
certain point it raises questions on the manager,” said
Gartenberg, who is based in Teaneck, New Jersey. “Once again,
there’s an empty seat at Ballmer’s table.”  Ozzie won’t be replaced because the company has enough
leaders in place,  Ballmer  said yesterday in an  e-mail  on the
company’s  website . Ozzie will be “on board” for a while before
leaving, Ballmer said.  Microsoft fell 60 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $25.22 at 10:49
a.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading .  With Ozzie leaving, Microsoft Chief Research and Strategy
Officer  Craig Mundie  will probably take a more significant role
in planning technology strategy for the future, Gartenberg said.
Plans for many of Microsoft’s products are also increasingly
laid by individual  business groups , and executives such as  Steve Sinofsky , president of the Windows division.  Ozzie’s Legacy  Earlier this month, Ballmer named  Kurt DelBene  to replace
Elop.  Andy Lees  was named president for mobile and  Don Mattrick 
for entertainment, replacing Bach. The quality of the executives
reporting to Ballmer varies, said  David Smith , also an analyst
at Gartner, which is based in Stamford, Connecticut.  Ozzie took the lead in pushing Microsoft into Internet-
based software. In a 2005 memo, he told executives the company
needs to respond to the shift or “our business as we know it is
at risk.”  Ozzie has played a less prominent role more recently. He
didn’t speak to analysts and investors at the company’s annual
analyst meeting in July, for example.  His departure didn’t surprise some analysts.  “I don’t think it’s going to have a huge impact,” Smith
said. “He was trying to fill some pretty big shoes -- you don’t
just walk in and become the next Bill Gates.”  ‘Cultural Mismatch’  Ozzie, who had done much of his work in smaller companies,
may have found it difficult to exert influence at Microsoft,
said  Paul Saffo , a managing director at Discern Inc., a San
Francisco-based investment research firm.  The pairing was a “cultural mismatch,” Saffo said,
because Ozzie was used to trying out ideas quickly and cutting
his losses if it didn’t work, a tall order at Microsoft.  “I was surprised he went to  Microsoft ,” said Saffo, who
has known Ozzie since the 1980s. “I was surprised he stayed as a
long as he did. I’m not surprised that eventually there was
organ rejection here.”  Saffo said Ozzie leaves behind important accomplishments,
including getting the company to pursue so-called cloud
computing, which involves delivering software and computing
capabilities via the Internet.  In 2008, he unveiled Microsoft’s Azure cloud software for
storing and running customers’ programs in Microsoft’s own data
centers. With the work on Azure shifted to Microsoft’s server
and tools business, under President  Bob Muglia , Ozzie may have
found his work at Microsoft was done.  “What else is he going to do?” said  Dan Warmenhoven ,
chairman of NetApp Inc. “He’s smart as hell, but he’s not really
a businessman. He’s a technologist. He’s probably looking for
the next big thing, and didn’t see it there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 