-- PepsiCo Plans $2.25 Billion Debt Sale in Three Parts
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2010-10-19T18:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/pepsico-said-to-plan-three-part-debt-sale-may-raise-at-least-500-million.html
PepsiCo Inc. , the world’s largest
snack-food maker, may sell $2.25 billion of debt in a three-part
offering, taking advantage of investment-grade corporate bond
yields near record lows.  The offering includes $500 million of 3-year notes that may
yield 35 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, $1
billion of 10-year debt that may pay 75 basis points more than
benchmarks and $750 million of 30-year bonds that may pay a 97
basis-point spread, the person said. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  PepsiCo plans to use proceeds to redeem up to $500 million
of its 7.9 percent notes due in November 2018 and for general
corporate purposes, it said in a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. The Purchase, New York-based maker of
Pepsi-Cola and Lay’s potato chips may also use the money it
raises to pay for share buybacks or acquisitions, said  Philip Gorham , an analyst at Morningstar Inc.  “Pepsi’s capital structure isn’t bad, they’ve got room to
leverage up,” said Gorham, who’s based in Chicago. “It’s an
opportunity for all good companies that have access to the
capital markets and are able to issue debt to do so now versus
waiting six to 12 months and perhaps that opportunity of low
rates might be gone.”  Investment-Grade Yields  Yields on investment-grade corporate debt fell 6 basis
points to 3.62 percent yesterday, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master Index. They touched
3.55 percent Oct. 11, the lowest in daily data that began in
October 1986.  PepsiCo lowered the top end of its 2010 profit forecast on
Oct. 7 as marketing outlays climb. The company is spending more
on projects such as adding drink coolers in China and creating
products in North America, Chief Financial Officer  Hugh Johnston 
said during a call with reporters.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., BNP Paribas SA and UBS AG are
managing the sale, PepsiCo said in the SEC filing, which didn’t
specify the size or timing of the offering.  PepsiCo last sold debt in January, when it issued $4.25
billion bonds in a four-part offering to help pay for the
acquisition of two bottling companies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  PepsiCo has $2 billion of its debt due in November 2018
outstanding, Bloomberg data show. The notes traded at 133.8
cents on the dollar to pay a spread of 61.8 basis points
yesterday, according to Trace, the bond price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Moody’s Investors Service  grades  PepsiCo Aa3, while
Standard & Poor’s ranks it A, two steps lower.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Duane D. Stanford  in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 