-- PetroChina, Cosco to Apply for Licence to Sell Marine Fuels in Singapore
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2010-10-19T03:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/petrochina-venture-plans-to-seek-license-to-sell-marine-fuel-in-singapore.html
A joint venture between
 PetroChina Co.  and  China Ocean Shipping (Group) Co.  plans to
apply for a license to sell marine fuels in Singapore to
capture rising demand in the world’s biggest bunkering port.  China Marine Bunker (PetroChina) Co.  is seeking the
right to sell the fuel from the Maritime and Port Authority
of Singapore, said two company officials who declined to be
identified as they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.
The company, known as Chimbusco, plans to acquire bunker
barges and rent storage facilities in Singapore as part of
 process  of obtaining the license. The application will be
made soon, the officials said, without providing details.  China Marine Bunker, which began marine-fuel marketing
in Singapore in August, joins Chinese rivals including
Brightoil Petroleum Holdings Ltd. and Southern Petrochemical
Co., a unit of  China Petroleum and Chemical Corp. , in trading
shipping fuel in Singapore’s $1.4 billion a-month market.
Sales of bunker fuel on the island reached a record 3.56
million metric tons in July, up 16 percent from a year
earlier, according to the port authority.  “The company is securing footholds in Pacific Rim
nations,” Kazuto Ishida, a senior trader at Peninsula
Petroleum Ltd. in Tokyo, said by phone. “It is the right
timing for them to enter the world’s biggest market. It will
increase rivalry among bunker suppliers in Singapore.”  Demand for fuel oil has been increasing as more ships
are calling at the port.  Container vessel arrivals  rose 10
percent to 1,609 from a year earlier in September, the port
authority said.  Margin Pressures  The officials declined to provide details about barges
and storages the company plans to operate. China Marine
Bunker currently sells about 100,000 tons of bunker fuel a
month, they said.  Increasing sales competition among bunker suppliers in
Singapore is reducing margins. The price difference between
delivered bunker fuel and fuel oil cargoes, known as bunker
premium, averaged $2.55 a ton between July 1 and Oct. 14,
according to Bloomberg’s data. This compares with $4.07 a ton
in the first half of this year.  PetroChina is the nation’s biggest oil and gas company,
while China Ocean Shipping’s unit  China Cosco Holdings Co.  is
Asia’s largest shipping line by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yuji Okada  in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net . 