-- Pfizer Wins Arkansas Lawsuit Claiming Prempro Caused Woman's Breast Cancer
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-10-19T20:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/pfizer-wins-arkansas-lawsuit-claiming-prempro-caused-woman-s-breast-cancer.html
Pfizer Inc.  properly warned an
Arkansas woman about the cancer risks of its Prempro menopause
drug, jurors found in rejecting her bid for at least
$3.5 million in damages.  Jurors in federal court in Little Rock, Arkansas
deliberated less than an hour before siding with Pfizer, the
world’s  largest drugmaker . Margaret Wilson, a 68-year-old former
bank teller, claimed that Prempro helped caused her breast
cancer and executives of Pfizer’s Wyeth unit hid the medicine’s
health risks from women and their doctors.  Wyeth now has won six of the 13 Prempro cases decided by
juries since trials began in 2006. Wyeth got some verdicts
against it thrown out at the post-trial stage or had awards
reduced. Wyeth also has won dismissals of more than 3,000 cases
before trial, the company said in a statement.  The jury’s decision “affirms that Wyeth communicated the
risks and benefits of Prempro,”  Chris Loder , a Pfizer
spokesman, said in the statement.  Until 1995, many menopausal women combined  Premarin ,
Wyeth’s estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden  Provera , made
by Pfizer’s Pharmacia & Upjohn unit, to relieve symptoms such as
hot flashes and mood swings. Wyeth combined the two hormones in
its  Prempro  pill.  Deadly Drug?  More than 6 million women took the drugs before the  Women’s
Health Initiative , a National Institutes of Health-sponsored
study, concluded in 2002 that they posed an increased risk of
cancer. Wyeth’s sales of the medicines topped $2 billion before
the study. New York-based Pfizer completed its $68 billion
 purchase  of Wyeth last year.  A study released today in the Journal of the American
Medical Association shows that women who took Prempro as part of
the WHI study were almost twice as likely to die from breast
cancer as those who weren’t taking the medicine.  Those findings conflict with previous research showing that
breast cancers in women taking hormone therapy had a lower risk
of death, Pfizer’s Loder said in a statement.  Lawyers for Wilson, who took Prempro for almost six years
before being diagnosed with breast cancer, said they were
disappointed with the jury’s finding.  “We’re sad that fine people like Mrs. Wilson and her
husband didn’t get justice for their injuries,” Erik Walker,
one of the woman’s attorneys, said in an interview after the
verdict. The couple were seeking at least $3.5 million for pain,
suffering and emotional distress over her breast cancer.  ‘Business Decision’  During the three-week trial, Wilson’s lawyers told jurors
that Wyeth officials never studied whether Prempro contributed
to the development of breast cancer in some women, although
research suggesting a link stretched back more than 30 years.  Instead, executives urged Wyeth scientists to dismiss
studies tying its menopause drugs to the disease and to
“distract” the media from focusing on them,  Rainey Booth , one
of the woman’s attorneys, said in closing arguments today.  “This company made a business decision not to get an
answer” about Prempro’s breast-cancer risk, he said.  Wyeth’s lawyers countered that the drugmaker provided
adequate warnings about Prempro’s cancer risks on the medicine’s
label, and that menopause drugs haven’t been found conclusively
to cause breast cancer.  “Prempro doesn’t cause DNA mutations” that lead to the
development of cancer,  Lyn Pruitt , one of Wyeth’s lawyers, told
the jury.  Pfizer still faces at least 8,000 lawsuits seeking millions
of dollars in damages over Prempro and its other menopause
drugs. Most of the cases are consolidated in federal court in
Little Rock and state court in Philadelphia.  The company faces trials during the next several months in
the Philadelphia court and in federal court in northern
Virginia.  The case is Wilson v. Wyeth, MDL 03-cv-1507-WRW, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Arkansas (Little Rock).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Philadelphia at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 