-- Pfizer Hormones Almost Double Breast Cancer Death Risk in Study
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-10-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/pfizer-hormones-almost-double-breast-cancer-death-risk-in-u-s-research.html
Pfizer Inc. ’s Prempro, a hormone once 
used by millions of women to ease menopause symptoms, almost 
doubled the death risk from breast cancer, a U.S. study found.  The findings from the U.S.-funded  Women’s Health Initiative 
are the first to tie Pfizer’s hormone replacement therapy
Prempro, already linked to higher breast cancer and heart
disease rates, to increased mortality from tumors.  Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, yesterday won its
sixth of 13 jury cases over Prempro’s health risks an hour
before the research was reported by the  Journal of the American
Medical Association . Previous studies suggested tumors fueled by
hormone therapy were less aggressive and easier to treat. Pfizer
gained Prempro in its $68 billion purchase of Wyeth last year.
The hormones had annual sales of more than $2 billion before the
study was halted in 2002, leading many women to stop treatment.  “You have more cancers, you have more advanced stage
cancers and you aren’t having just more favorable cancers,”
lead researcher  Rowan Chlebowski , from the  Los Angeles
Biomedical Research Institute  at Harbor-UCLA Medical Center,
said in a telephone interview. “Women should think critically
about if they need this, if their symptoms are significant and
if they would persist.”  Researchers tracked 12,788 women for almost 8 years after
the trial was stopped and found 678 cases of invasive breast
cancer, including 385 for women taking hormones and 293 with a
placebo. Investigators calculated there were 2.6 deaths caused
by breast cancer for every 10,000 women taking hormones each
year, compared with 1.3 deaths for those on a placebo.  Conflicting Research  The findings conflict with previous studies showing breast
cancers in women taking hormone therapy had a lower risk of
death, said  Christopher Loder , a spokesman for New York-based
Pfizer, in a statement yesterday.  “We stand behind the current, science-based guidance in
Prempro’s label, which advises doctors to prescribe the medicine
at the lowest effective dose and for the shortest duration,”
Loder said. Women should talk to their doctors about how long
they should be on the therapy, he said.  Prempro is a combination of hormones used to replace those
that the body stops making when a women enters menopause,
triggering symptoms like hot flashes and mood swings. It is made
up of Premarin, an estrogen gathered from the urine of pregnant
horses, and progestin that reduces the risk of uterine cancer
linked to the use of estrogen alone.  The two products  generated  $260 million for Pfizer in the
second quarter of 2010.  Declining Rates  The decline in hormone use after the Women’s Health
Initiative results were initially released led to a drop in
breast cancer rates, with about 100,000 fewer invasive tumors
detected from 2002 to 2007 than expected, said Chlebowski, chief
of medical oncology at the University of California, Los
Angeles, School of Medicine. With a 10-year mortality rate of
about 20 percent, the reduction in hormone use may have
prevented about 20,000 deaths, he said.  It is likely that the risk of dying from breast cancer was
underestimated and will increase with time, wrote  Peter Bach ,
from  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center ’s health outcomes
research group, in an editorial accompanying the study. While
many physicians and women may believe brief periods of hormone
therapy is safe, more study is needed to prove that, he said.  “Given the substantial population of women who seek relief
from menopausal symptoms and the large potential burden of
disease that could be created if medications given to alleviate
symptoms today cause cancer and other deaths tomorrow, it seems
that additional randomized trials are needed,” Bach wrote.  Pfizer’s Lawsuits  Pfizer is facing about 8,000 lawsuits seeking millions of
dollars in damages over sales of Prempro and Premarin.  Some verdicts against Pfizer’s Wyeth unit were thrown out
at the post-trial stage or damages were reduced. The company
also has won dismissals of more than 3,000 cases before trial,
according to court filings. A jury yesterday found Pfizer
properly warned an Arkansas woman about the cancer risks of
Prempro and rejected her claim for at least $3.5 million in
damages.  The health initiative stopped giving women hormones in
2002, while continuing to track them, providing the
investigators with the largest group of 80-year-old and 90-year-
old women in the world, Chlebowski said. The study is funded by
the U.S.  National Institutes of Health.   The breast cancer deaths in women on hormone replacement
therapy add to findings in the journal Lancet last year that the
pills also raise the risk of dying from lung cancer. Women
taking the pills may want to consider a respite to see if they
still need the medicine, Chlebowski said. While U.S. regulators
recommended hormones be used at the lowest dose for the shortest
time possible, many women don’t try to stop them, he said.  “You really don’t want to be taking a medication that
increases the two leading causes of  cancer death  in women,
unless you really have to,” Chlebowski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  