-- Pimco, NY Fed Said to Seek BofA Repurchase of Mortgages
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-10-19T21:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/pimco-new-york-fed-said-to-seek-bank-of-america-repurchase-of-mortgages.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
 BlackRock Inc.  and the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  are
seeking to force Bank of America Corp. to repurchase soured
mortgages packaged into $47 billion of bonds by its Countrywide
Financial Corp. unit, people familiar with the matter said.  A group of bondholders wrote a letter to Bank of America
and Bank of  New York Mellon Corp. , the debt’s trustee, citing
alleged failures by Countrywide to service loans properly, their
lawyer said yesterday in a statement that didn’t name the firms.
The New York Fed acquired mortgage debt through its 2008 rescues
of Bear Stearns Cos. and American International Group Inc.  Investors are stepping up efforts to recoup losses on
mortgage bonds, which plummeted in value amid the worst slump in
home  prices  since the 1930s. Last month, BNY Mellon declined to
investigate mortgage files in response to a demand from the
bondholder group, which has since expanded. Countrywide’s
servicing failures, including insufficient record keeping, may
open the door for investors to seek repurchases by bypassing the
trustee, said  Kathy Patrick , their lawyer at Gibbs & Bruns LLP.  “We now are in a position where we have to start a clock
ticking,” Patrick, who is based in Houston, said today in a
telephone interview.  If the issues aren’t fixed within 60 days, BNY Mellon
should declare Countrywide in default on its servicing
contracts, Patrick said.  What’s Next  In its role as a mortgage seller, Countrywide should face
more repurchase demands no matter what, Patrick said. The
requests may come directly from bondholders or from the loan
servicing arm of Countrywide itself or from Bank of New York,
which acts as trustee.  Patrick represents investors who own at least 25 percent of
so-called voting rights in the deals and stand to recover “many
billions of dollars,” Patrick said.  MetLife Inc. , the biggest U.S. life insurer, is part of the
group Gibbs & Bruns is representing, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the discussions aren’t public.
TCW Group Inc., the manager of $110 billion in assets, expects
to join BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager, and Pimco,
which runs the biggest bond fund, in the group, the people said.  The investors are among those who want lenders to buy back
home mortgages that they say were marketed with misstatements
about quality. One problem can be faulty appraisals that
overvalued homes. That matter is separate from an investigation
by 50 state attorneys general into whether loan servicers may
have improperly foreclosed on homes.  Most Common Claim  While failing to include documents needed for foreclosures
violates so-called representations and warranties by mortgage
sellers, it probably won’t be the most common issue discovered
if investors can access loan files, Isaac Gradman, a San
Francisco-based  consultant , said yesterday.  “It’s surprising that it took this foreclosure crisis to
bring the issue to people’s attention but people are starting to
get it,” said Gradman, formerly a lawyer at Howard Rice
Nemerovski Canady Falk & Rabkin. He represented mortgage insurer
PMI Group Inc. in a settled lawsuit over similar issues against
General Electric Co. and its defunct mortgage unit.  Countrywide hasn’t met its contractual obligations as a
servicer also because it hasn’t asked for loan repurchases and
is taking too long with foreclosures, Patrick said. The delays
stem from missing documents, process mistakes and insufficient
staffing to evaluate borrowers for loan modifications, she said.  Legal Action  If Countrywide doesn’t correct the servicing problems
within a few months, her clients could have the right to pursue
legal action against Bank of America, Bank of New York or both,
she said. “None of the bondholders are opposed to modifications
for deserving borrowers, but you’ve got to get it done” in a
timely fashion, she added.  “The letter states a demand directed to Countrywide to
cure the defaults,” said  Kevin Heine , a spokesman for BNY
Mellon. “It does not ask BNY Mellon to take any action. BNY
Mellon will continue to perform its duties as trustee.”  Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America will
“defend our shareholders” by disputing any unjustified demands
it buy back defective mortgages, Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said today.  Most claims “don’t have the defects that people allege,”
Moynihan said on Bloomberg Television, referring to so-called
put-backs, in which guarantors or investors in mortgage-backed
securities ask for the return of bad loans. “We end up
restoring them, and they go back in the pools.”  Jeffrey V. Smith, a spokesman for the New York Fed,
declined to comment.  Multiple Efforts  In August,  Jack Gutt , another spokesman, said the
institution was involved in “multiple efforts related to
exercising our rights as investors,” which would “support our
primary goal of maximizing the value of these portfolios on
behalf of the American taxpayer.”  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco;  Brian Beades , a spokesman for New York-
based BlackRock; and Peter Viles, a spokesman for Los Angeles-
based TCW, declined to comment. John Calagna, a spokesman for
New York-based MetLife, also declined to comment.  “We continue to review and assess the letter, and have a
number of question about its content, including whether these
investors have standing to bring these claims,” Bank of America
Chief Financial Officer  Charles H. Noski  said today on a
conference call with analysts. “We continue to believe the
servicer is in compliance with the servicing obligations.”  115 Deals  The letter covered 115 separate mortgage securitizations,
with $105 billion in original balances, from “eight investors
purportedly owning interests in these transactions,” Noski
said.  Banks’ costs from repurchasing mortgages in securities
without government backing may total as much as $179.2 billion,
Compass Point Research and Trading LLC analyst  Chris Gamaitoni 
estimated in August, including expenses related to lawsuits
against bond underwriters.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said in an Oct. 15 report the
costs may reach $80 billion, reduced in part by the difficulty
investors have getting trustees to act and a typical requirement
that misstatements about loan quality must be “material.”  Losses on the mortgages packaged into bonds come amid
“persistently high unemployment and other economic trends,
diminishing the likelihood that any loan defect, should one
exist at all, was the cause of the loan’s default,” Noski said.  Repurchase Requests  Bank of America said in an August securities filing it had
been dealing with a “very limited” number of requests to
repurchase bad loans out of securities other than from bond
guarantors. Capital One Financial Corp. Chief Financial Officer
Gary Perlin said on a conference call today it has “seen
virtually no repurchase activity from” home loans it sold into
uninsured bonds from 2005 through 2008.  Mortgage-bond contracts are explicit in requiring
repurchases of loans when their quality fails to match sellers’
promises, said  Scott Simon , Pimco’s head of mortgage bonds. The
contracts also call for trustees and servicers to ask lenders to
take back debt under those circumstances, he said.  “They’re contractually required to enforce the reps and
warranties,” Simon said today in a telephone interview. He
declined to comment on his firm’s actions.  Separate Effort  The initiative covered by the letter sent to Bank of
America and BNY Mellon yesterday is separate from the effort
coordinated through Dallas lawyer Talcott Franklin, Patrick
said. That firm is coordinating action for a larger group of
mortgage-bond investors holding more than $500 billion of the
debt.  Participants in that so-called RMBS Investor Clearing House
include BlackRock, Pimco, Fortress Investment Group LLC, Fannie
Mae and Federal Home Loan Banks, people familiar with the matter
said last month. MetLife isn’t part of that group, Calagna said.  Membership in the clearing house has risen to 110 from 65,
during the last two weeks, said  Bill Frey , head of Greenwich,
Connecticut-based securities firm Greenwich Financial Services
LLC. Frey this month lost a lawsuit against BofA seeking to
force the bank to purchase any modified loans out of bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  