-- Pimco Says Osborne Must Stick to Budget Plans, Favors Shorter-Dated Gilts
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-10-19T15:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/pimco-says-osborne-must-stick-to-budget-plans-favors-shorter-dated-gilts.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  must stick to his budget-reduction
plans even with the risk of “economic difficulty.”  Pimco favors short-dated gilts, or those maturing within
seven years, on bets that the Bank of England will resume debt
purchases to bolster “weak” growth caused by the spending
cuts, said  Michael Amey , executive vice president for U.K. fixed
income at Pimco in London. The view is echoed by Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch Wealth Management, which said it prefers
U.K. notes to longer-maturity bonds. The Comprehensive Spending
Review, intended to tackle the U.K.’s record deficit, will be
presented by Osborne to parliament tomorrow.  “We have a double-digit government deficit, we have a
stated plan to deal with that problem, and we want to see the
government keep to the message,” Amey said in an interview.
“The one thing the market would be wary of is a change in plan
this early on. There’s clearly concern over the profile of
growth going forward. The government should not change the game
plan at the first sign of difficulty.”  Osborne says measures to eliminate most of the 156 billion-
pound ($245 billion) deficit by 2015 are essential to prevent a
loss of confidence from investors. The budget deficit was 11.1
percent of gross domestic product in the year through March,
almost four times the European Union limit. The Chancellor said
in June he expects borrowing to fall to 1.1 percent of GDP in
2015-2016.  Recovery Stumbling  Reports this month suggest the economic recovery is
stumbling after the British economy grew at the fastest pace in
nine years in the second quarter. A manufacturing index fell to
a 10-month low in September as export orders declined, data from
Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply showed on Oct. 1. U.K. house prices plunged last month by
the most since at least 1983, the Halifax division of Lloyds
Banking Group Plc said Oct. 7.  The U.K. Office for Budget Responsibility will publish new
forecasts for the economy based on the budget cuts on Nov. 29.
Any adjustments to the gilt issuance plan for the fiscal year,
which ends in March, will also be announced on that day,
according to the Debt Management Office. The Treasury plans to
sell 165 billion pounds of gilts this fiscal year.  ‘Further QE’  “There is a high probability that the Bank of England will
engage in a further round of quantitative easing, which will
support the short end of the market,” said Amey. “We live in a
world of high uncertainty. Undoubtedly there is a risk that
growth turns out weaker than expected. Yield protection is less
clear cut in the longer part of the market.”  The spending review will be unveiled on the same day that
the Bank of England publishes the minutes of its October
meeting. Policy maker  Adam Posen  has said that officials should
consider increasing the bond-purchase plan from the current 200
billion pounds ($314 billion).  “I think the government will try to be as balanced as
possible,” said  Johannes Jooste , a portfolio strategist at
Merrill Lynch Wealth Management in London. “I wouldn’t want to
rule out completely a risk of a double dip, but my view is that
they probably could avoid it.”  There’s better value in corporate bonds and shorter-dated
gilts than longer-maturity debt, Jooste said. The Bank of
England is “probably more comfortable keeping a loose monetary
policy a while longer than they might have otherwise.”  ‘Resilient’ Jobs Market  The “resilient” jobs market will reduce the impact of the
spending cuts, said  David Owen , chief European financial
economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in London. Employment
increased in the quarter through August by 178,000, taking the
total of people in work to 29.16 million, data on Oct. 13
showed. That was the highest since the first quarter of 2009.  “As the months have gone by, we have become more
optimistic that significant public spending cuts and tax rises
won’t completely derail the U.K.’s recovery,” Owen said. “It’s
so much easier to push through aggressive fiscal tightening when
an economy is growing, than in recession, as  Ireland  is now
finding to its cost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  