-- Polish Output, Producer-Price Growth Exceed Median Estimates in September
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-10-19T12:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/polish-output-producer-price-growth-exceed-median-estimates-in-september.html
Polish industrial output expanded in
September at a faster-than-expected annual pace and producer
price-growth quickened, increasing chances the central bank will
raise interest rates as early as this month.  Output increased 11.8 percent from a year earlier after
gaining a revised 13.6 percent in August, the  Central
Statistical Office  in Warsaw said today. The figure exceeded
median estimate of 11.4 percent by 16 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. On the month, output rose 13.2 percent.  Industrial production grew at a double-digit pace for a
fifth month as recovering demand in Western Europe boosted
manufacturing orders and prompted companies to add jobs. Export
orders pushed the September Purchasing Managers Index to 54.7,
the highest since November 2006, HSBC Holdings Plc said. Rising
domestic consumption may prompt the  central bank  to increase
borrowing costs after September annual  inflation rate  reached
the bank’s 2.5 percent target faster than expected.  “Strong output growth will make it hard to rule out the
possibility of an October rate increase,” economists at ING
Bank Slaski wrote in an e-mailed note before the release. “Our
view is that zloty appreciation will come first, while the
actual rate increase will follow in November.”  Producer prices , an early indicator of inflation trends,
grew 4.3 percent in September from the previous year, their
fifth consecutive monthly increase and the fastest pace in 17
months. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 13
economists was for an increase of 4.2 percent following August’s
revised 4 percent rise.  The zloty strengthened to 3.9363 against the euro at 2:08
p.m. from 3.9386 before the data release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katya Andrusz  in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  