-- Posco’s $12 Billion Indian Plant in Doubt After Panel Report
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2010-10-19T00:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/posco-s-planned-12-billion-indian-steel-plant-in-doubt-after-panel-report.html
Posco ’s proposed $12 billion steel
plant in India is in doubt after a government panel recommended
scrapping environment clearances given to the world’s third
largest steelmaker.  Three of the four members of the panel suggested that
approvals should be canceled because of “flaws in the studies,
and shortcomings in the clearances granted” to the project in
the eastern state of Orissa, Environment Minister  Jairam Ramesh 
told reporters yesterday in New Delhi. A separate  report  by
 Meena Gupta , the head of the panel, asked for conditions to be
added to the existing clearances, he said.  Posco’s project, billed as the single-biggest investment by
a foreign company in India, has been delayed since 2005 because
of opposition from farmers unwilling to give up their land. In
August, the ministry rejected a proposal by  Vedanta Resources
Plc , owned by billionaire  Anil Agarwal , to mine bauxite at
Niyamgiri hills in the same state, hampering a planned $8
billion expansion.  “There is no fixed time frame for deciding the future of
the Posco project,” Ramesh said. “There’s a fundamental
difference between the Posco and the Vedanta projects.”  Opposition from farmers has helped stall $80 billion in
planned spending by companies including Posco and ArcelorMittal
on steel mills in three Indian states that hold more than half
of India’s reserves of iron ore, a key material to make steel.
ArcelorMittal is the world’s largest producer, ahead of Baosteel
Group Corp. and Posco, according to the World Steel Association.  Final Recommendation  Both reports by the committee recommended Posco make a
comprehensive environmental impact assessment, Ramesh said. The
environment ministry’s forest advisory committee will meet on
Oct. 25 to review the reports before making a final
recommendation, Ramesh said. The members have suggested stricter
implementation of the provisions under the Forest Rights Act.  “Posco is still waiting for the final decision of India’s
environment ministry,” Choi Doo Jin, a spokesman for Posco,
said by phone today.  The Pohang, South Korea-based company rose 0.2 percent to
493,500 won at 9:36 a.m. in Seoul trading.  The resettlement and rehabilitation package being offered
by Posco to farmers who will be displaced from their land is a
“good one” and is superior to the terms laid down by the
state government, Gupta said in her report posted on the
ministry’s website. Still, the landless laborers will have
limited benefits, she said.  India’s environment ministry had asked the state government
of Orissa to halt land acquisitions from farmers occupying the
site of Posco’s proposed plant,  Choi Doo Jin , a spokesman for
the Pohang-based mill said on Aug. 9. The order followed a non-
government organization’s claim that more native residents are
living in the forest land than the state reported, he said.  ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, faces
delays for a $10 billion mill in Orissa and in Jharkhand state.
Projects by Tata Steel Ltd., India’s biggest maker of the metal,
are faring no better in the two states and in Chhattisgarh.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Abhijit Roy Chowdhury  in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  