-- Pound Drops Before BOE Minutes on Easing Outlook, Barker Inflation Comment
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-10-19T16:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/pound-slips-against-dollar-before-bank-of-england-minutes-spending-review.html
The pound weakened against the
dollar as investors speculated that minutes from the Bank of
England’s latest meeting to be published tomorrow may signal
further monetary easing is likely.  Sterling also depreciated versus the yen as reports showed
a U.K. index of factory orders fell this month to a six-month
low. The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee risks
stoking inflation with little benefit to growth should it expand
so-called quantitative-easing, former policy maker  Kate Barker 
said yesterday. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
provides details of planned spending cuts tomorrow.  “There is a lot of investor uncertainty about the MPC
minutes as they will provide us with a good idea about how close
the BOE is to announcing additional asset purchases,” said  Paul Robson , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  in London. “We may well get people trimming
some positions, so sterling-dollar has a little downside.”  The pound fell 0.9 percent to $1.5729 at 3:59 p.m. in
London, extending its three-day run of declines to reach the
lowest level this month. Sterling slipped 0.3 percent to 128.65
yen, and was little changed against the euro at 87.68 pence.  Sterling earlier weakened as much as 0.5 percent against
the euro after Germany’s ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim said a gauge of current conditions jumped
to a three-year high. A ZEW index of analyst and investor
confidence, which aims to predict developments six months ahead,
slid to a 21-month low.  Gilts fell, pushing the 10-year yield above 3 percent for
the first time since Oct. 1, as a debt auction garnered less
demand than some investors anticipated.  Factory Orders  The Confederation of British Industry’s index of factory
orders, based on a survey of 420 manufacturers, dropped to minus
28 from minus 17 in September, the nation’s biggest business
lobby group said today.  The Bank of England left interest rates at a record low and
refrained from increasing its 200 billion-pound ($316 billion)
bond-buying program on Oct. 7 amid divisions on whether to add
more stimulus to the economy. Policy maker  Adam Posen  has
advocated further stimulus measures, saying monetary policy
“should continue to be aggressive,” while fellow central
banker  Andrew Sentance  has voted to raise rates since June.  More stimulus could “have more of an impact on inflation
than on growth if it feeds through into higher inflation
expectations,” Barker said yesterday at an event held by Queen
Mary College in London.  ‘Poor Auction’  Ten-year gilts declined after the U.K. sold 1.25 billion
pounds of inflation-linked debt due in 2032. Investors bid for
1.59 times the amount of securities offered, compared with a
2.14 ratio on April 27, the last time the U.K. sold the
securities. The yield on the 10-year gilt rose four basis points
to 3 percent. The two-year yield slipped two basis points to
0.64 percent. The yield on the 2032 security gained three basis
points to 0.73 percent.  “The poor auction is the proximate cause of gilts
falling,” said  Robin Marshall , who oversees about $20 billion
of fixed-income investments at Smith & Williamson Investment
Management in London. The bid-to-cover ratio was “not a
stunning success. We’ve had a very good run-up in a number of
these asset classes” given the outlook for U.S. quantitative
easing, he said.  Spending Review  Osborne’s Comprehensive Spending Review is intended to
reduce most ministerial budgets by a quarter. He says his
measures to almost eliminate the U.K.’s  156 billion-pound 
deficit over four years are essential to prevent a loss of
confidence from investors and maintain the nation’s top credit
rating.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said today defense spending
will be cut by 8 percent in inflation-adjusted terms.  “There’s a little bit of nervousness about how far these
cuts are going to get implemented,” Marshall said. “The
Chancellor has been talking down expectations in front of it,
but it’s understandably caused a little bit of nervousness in
the gilt market about how far they’ll be able to carry through
on their tough rhetoric.”  The pound has dropped 5.1 percent this year against a
basket of its developed-country peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the second-
worst performing currency, after the euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  