-- PPR Said to Explore Leveraged Buyout Financing for Conforama
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-10-19T14:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/ppr-said-to-explore-leveraged-buyout-financing-for-conforama-business.html
PPR SA  is exploring financing
options for Conforama, including arranging a loan to finance a
potential leveraged buyout to attract private-equity bidders, as
it weighs a sale of France’s second-largest furniture retailer,
said four people with knowledge of the matter.  The Paris-based company is asking lenders to make proposals
for a so-called staple financing that could be used to fund a
Conforama LBO by private-equity firms, said the people, who
didn’t want to be identified because the talks are confidential.
 PPR  values the business at about 1.5 billion euros ($2.1
billion), a person familiar with the matter said in June.  PPR, which also owns mail-order retailer Redcats and the
Fnac music and video-store chain, is seeking to sell its retail
assets to focus on building its luxury and lifestyle businesses.
PPR may acquire more brands to bolster its Puma and Gucci Group
divisions after selling “one or two” of the retail units,
Chief Executive Officer  Francois-Henri Pinault  said yesterday.  Conforama will hold presentations and discuss business
plans with the lenders in the coming weeks, the people said. PPR
will make a decision on whether to proceed with a Conforama sale
by the middle of next month, one of the people said. PPR has
also asked banks to explore a recapitalization to pay a  dividend 
or a way to monetize the furniture retailer’s real estate
assets, two of the people said.  No Discussions  Colony Capital LLC and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s GS Capital
Partners and  Steinhoff International Holdings Ltd.  have
expressed interest in the unit, people familiar with the matter
said in June.  Marne-La-Vallée, France-based Conforama, which sells
products including sofas, lamps, freezers and televisions, has a
value of about 1.3 billion euros,  Luca Solca , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein in London, estimated in a Sept. 30 report.  Colony Capital and GS Capital Partners bought a controlling
stake in BUT, France’s third-largest furniture retailer, in
January 2008 and have sought to combine the business with
Conforama, three people familiar with the matter said in June.  Steinhoff, Africa’s largest furniture maker, is looking for
opportunities in France, said Chief Executive Officer  Markus Jooste  in a June 11 interview.  Conforama , which operates 239
stores worldwide, the majority of which are in France, focuses
on the mass discount market.  More Profitable  Charlotte Judet, a spokeswoman for PPR, declined to comment
on any possible interest in Conforama. A spokeswoman for Colony
and Goldman Sachs declined to comment.  Mariza Nel , a spokeswoman
for Steinhoff, said the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  While  PPR  aims to sell at least one retail unit this year,
it isn’t in a hurry and won’t sell assets cheaply, Pinault said
May 19. The disposals might happen this year or next, he said at
the time.  Conforama’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization increased 32 percent to 83 million euros in the
first six months of 2010 as sales rose 6.2 percent, PPR said in
July. The furniture retailer will be “significantly” more
profitable this year than last year, Conforama CEO  Thierry Guibert  said in a June 30 interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 