-- Quantitative Easing a `Key Theme' for Developed Sovereign Risk, Fitch Says
-- B y   S a n d y   H e n d r y   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2010-10-19T06:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/quantitative-easing-a-key-theme-for-developed-sovereign-risk-fitch-says.html
Quantitative easing in developed
countries is a “key theme” for credit risk in emerging markets,
 Andrew Colquhoun , head of Asia-Pacific sovereign debt at Fitch
Ratings, said today at a conference in Hong Kong.  Nations where monetary and fiscal discipline are weak and
whose economies have strong links to the dollar are the most
vulnerable, he said. Indonesia’s shallow capital markets and
inflation explain why it still has a BB+ debt rating as its bond
risk falls, Colquhoun said. Sri Lanka and India also have a
history of volatile consumer prices, he said.  “This whole topic of the implications of quantitative
easing globally is going to be the key theme for developing
sovereign risk and sovereign ratings for the next 12-18
months,” said Colquhoun. “It could start to look bleaker than
it does to some people now” in Indonesia if markets remain
volatile because of capital flows, he said.  The costs of insuring against default on debt of Indonesia
and the Philippines are now lower than that of Italy, which has
a credit-rating six levels higher than either emerging-market
nation. The price of insuring Asian debt has dropped amid record
demand for emerging-market bonds as investors wager those
economies will drive the global recovery, while Europe wrestles
with surging budget deficits and sluggish growth.  Fundamentals Deteriorate  Credit-default swaps on Italy, the only borrower among
Europe’s so-called peripheral nations not to suffer a cut in its
credit rating since last year, trade at 166 basis points. That’s
more than the 131 basis points for Indonesia, or the 129 basis
points for the Philippines, according to data provider CMA.  “The market is right to be pricing them better,”  Robert Subbaraman , chief economist for Asia excluding Japan at Nomura
International Ltd. in Hong Kong, said at the conference. “The
risk is that fundamentals in Indonesia and the Philippines could
start to deteriorate because of too much money flooding in.”  Inflation is a growing threat because of accelerating
economic growth, commodity-price increases and rising housing
costs, he said. Indonesia’s consumer prices climbed 5.8 percent
from a year earlier in September, less than the 8.6 percent
average rate for the past five years. Those in the Philippines
gained 3.5 percent, compared with a five-year average of 5.3
percent.  Alicia Garcia-Herrero , chief emerging-markets economist at
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in Hong Kong, said asset
bubbles are a greater risk as Asian nations hold off from
raising interest rates to quell currency gains.  Thai Rates  The Bank of Thailand may refrain from a third straight
increase in interest rates tomorrow, according to 13 of 19
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Policy makers in South
Korea and Malaysia have stopped raising rates.  The World Bank today lowered its outlook for growth next
year in China and across East Asia to 7.8 percent from an April
estimate of 8 percent, saying officials in the region need to
curb inflation and ward off asset bubbles to avoid a repeat of
the Asian financial crisis.  Fitch raised its rating for Indonesia in January to the
highest non-investment grade. Fitch’s assessment of the
Philippines is at BB, two levels below investment grade.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  A record $40.5 billion has flowed into emerging-market bond
funds this year, more than four times the full-year high of $9.7
billion in 2005, according to data from research firm EPFR
Global. Indonesia, with a budget deficit of 1.5 percent of gross
domestic product, grew 6.2 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier, while the Philippines, with a budget gap of 2.2
percent of GDP, expanded at an annual rate of 7.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandy Hendry in Hong Kong at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  