-- Rangers Beat Yankees 8-0, Lead 2-1 in AL Championship Series
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-19T05:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/rangers-beat-yankees-8-0-lead-2-1-in-al-championship-series.html
Cliff Lee  remained perfect in
the postseason, striking out 13 New York Yankees in eight
scoreless innings to give the Texas Rangers a 2-1 lead in
the American League Championship Series.  Lee and reliever  Neftali Feliz  held the defending
World Series champions to two hits as the Rangers won 8-0
at Yankee Stadium last night.  Lee improved to 7-0 with a 1.26 earned run average in
eight career Major League Baseball postseason starts,
numbers that put him in the company of Hall of Fame
pitchers such as  Sandy Koufax ,  Christy Mathewson  and  Bob Gibson .  “To do that to that lineup, you definitely have to
tip your hat to Cliff Lee,” Rangers manager  Ron Washington 
said in a news conference. “He was the thoroughbred we
needed.”  Josh Hamilton  hit a two-run home run in the first
inning and the Rangers added six runs in the ninth to
improve to 4-0 on the road this postseason.  Game 4 of the best-of-seven series will be played
today at Yankee Stadium. New York will start pitcher  A.J. Burnett , who has a 1-7 record with a 6.61 earned run
average the past three months.  The Rangers will counter with  Tommy Hunter , who is 13-
5 this season with a 3.75 ERA and is 5-4 since the start of
August. Texas lost Game 4 in the first round of the
playoffs 5-2 with Hunter as starter, allowing the Tampa Bay
Rays to force a decider, which Lee won for the Rangers.  In the past 19 ALCS that were tied 1-1, the Game 3
winner has advanced to the World Series 14 times.  The National League Championship Series also continues
today, with the San Francisco Giants hosting the
Philadelphia Phillies in Game 3 at AT&T Park. That series
is tied 1-1.  Lee Beats Pettitte  Lee, 32, outpitched  Andy Pettitte  -- baseball’s leader
with 19 postseason victories -- to become the third major
leaguer to win his first seven postseason decisions,
joining  Orel Hershiser  and  Orlando Hernandez .  “Any time you can get that deep in the game and not
give up any runs in the postseason, that’s huge,” Lee
said.  Lee has won six straight postseason starts dating back
to last year’s NL Division Series, one short of Gibson’s
record of seven in a row from 1964-68.  Lee struck out at least one batter in every inning
last night and became the first pitcher with three 10-
strikeout games in a postseason. Gibson was the only other
pitcher to record 10 or more strikeouts in three career
postseason games.  Koufax and Mathewson  With nine earned runs allowed over 64 1/3 postseason
innings, Lee’s ERA of 1.26 is the third lowest among
pitchers with at least five starts, trailing Koufax and
Mathewson.  “He was outstanding,” said Pettitte, who allowed two
runs over seven innings. “You can’t say enough about what
he did in this ballpark.”  Pettitte’s undefeated postseason streak ended at nine
starts, the third longest. It was his first defeat since
Game 1 of the 2005 NLCS for Houston.  After a one-out single by  Michael Young  in the first
inning, Hamilton pulled a pitch on the outside corner into
the second row of seats in right field. It was his second
home run in the series for the Rangers, who have homered in
all eight of their games this postseason.  While Pettitte held Texas scoreless over the next six
innings before giving way to the bullpen, he lost for the
third time in 13 career LCS starts.  ‘One Cutter Up’  “He pitched a great game,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said. “He left one cutter up a little bit and Josh
Hamilton hit it out of the ballpark.”  Lee retired the first 11 Yankee hitters in order
before allowing a two-out walk to  Mark Teixeira  in the
fourth inning. The only hits Lee surrendered were singles
by  Jorge Posada  in the fifth and  Brett Gardner  in the
sixth.  Lee is the fourth pitcher to strike out at least 13
batters in a postseason game against the Yankees. He joins
Koufax (15 in Game 1 of the 1963 World Series), Carl
Erskine (14 in Game 3 of the 1953 World Series) and Gibson
(13 in Game 5 of the 1964 World Series).  Texas’s ninth-inning outburst came against Yankees
relievers  Boone Logan ,  David Robertson  and  Sergio Mitre .
New York’s bullpen had allowed one earned run in 16
postseason innings entering the game.  Last Yankee Shutout  The last time the Yankees were shut out in the
postseason was by Detroit’s  Kenny Rogers  and two relievers
in Game 3 of the 2006 AL Division Series.  “We haven’t swung the bats great, but we have seen
some pretty good pitching and we’re not the only lineup
that they’ve shut down,” Girardi said. “I still believe
that we’re going to hit. Tomorrow’s a new day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  at Yankee Stadium in New York at 
   matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  