-- Real Madrid Beats AC Milan in Champions League; Arsenal, Bayern Munich Win
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-19T21:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/real-madrid-beats-ac-milan-in-champions-league-arsenal-bayern-munich-win.html
Real Madrid beat AC Milan 2-0 in
soccer’s Champions League, while Arsenal, Bayern Munich and
Chelsea continued their perfect starts.  Real Madrid scored twice within a minute in the first half
to win a matchup of the two most successful teams in the history
of Europe’s top club competition last night.  Arsenal routed Shakhtar Donetsk 5-1, Bayern Munich beat
Cluj 3-2 and Chelsea was a 2-0 winner at Spartak Moscow. Ajax,
Basel, Braga and Marseille also won.  Cristiano Ronaldo  and  Mesut Ozil  had the goals for record
nine-time champion Real at the Bernabeu stadium in Madrid.
Ronaldo scored with a free kick in the 13th minute, then set up
Ozil, whose shot deflected in off Milan defender  Daniele Bonera .  Real leads Group G with nine points after its third win in
as many games. AC Milan, which has won seven European titles,
and four-time winner Ajax have four points each.  Demy de Zeeuw and Luis Suarez scored in Ajax’s 2-1 win over
Auxerre, which got a goal from Valter Birsa. Ajax’s  Andre Ooijer 
received a red card in the 55th minute, while Auxerre’s Dennis
Oliech was later sent off for a second yellow card.  Arsenal took the lead in Group H after trouncing Shakhtar.
 Alex Song ,  Samir Nasri ,  Cesc Fabregas ,  Jack Wilshere  and
Marouane Chamakh scored for the Gunners, who have 14 goals in
their three wins. Former Arsenal striker  Eduardo da Silva  scored
for Shakhtar, which is second in the group with six points.  Braga has three points after beating Partizan Belgrade 2-0
on goals by Rodrigo Lima and Matheus.  Bayern Wins  Bayern Munich, the runner-up last year to Inter Milan, got
help from Cluj to move atop Group E with nine points.  Cluj took the lead in the 28th minute on Ricardo Cadu’s
header, before own goals from Cadu and Cristian Panin five
minutes apart put home team Bayern on top.  Mario Gomez  made it
3-1 before Juan Emmanuel Culio closed the scoring with four
minutes left.  Alexander Frei , Samuel Inkoom and Adilson Cabral scored as
Basel beat Roma 3-1 to leave two teams tied with Cluj on three
points.  Yury Zhirkov and  Nicolas Anelka  scored as Chelsea won in
Moscow. The Blues lead Group F with nine points, three more than
Spartak. Marseille has three points after beating Zilina 1-0 on
 Souleymane Diawara ’s goal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 