-- Poland Picks GDF Suez, Kulczyk From Enea Shortlist For Further Sale Talks
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2010-10-19T08:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/treasury-ministry-picks-two-bidders-from-enea-shortlist-for-further-talks.html
Poland chose  GDF Suez SA , France’s
largest utility, and Kulczyk Holding SA for final talks to buy
51 percent of its third-largest utility Enea SA, rejecting
 Electricite de France SA .  Poland’s Treasury Ministry chose two of the three
shortlisted bidders for the stake, it said in a statement on its
website today, without naming the companies. Kulczyk is one of
the two bidders, a person close to the transaction told
Bloomberg News today, and GDF is the other, another person said,
declining to be identified because the information isn’t public.  EDF was the third bidder, a third person said earlier.  Enea  shares were little changed at 23 zloty at 10:16 a.m.
in Warsaw, trading 0.9 percent below last week’s one-year high
and valuing the stake at 5.18 billion zloty ($1.8 billion).  The sale is part of a government plan to raise 25 billion
zloty ($8.9 billion) to help finance the widening budget
deficit. The Treasury Ministry sold or agreed to sell stakes in
three of its four biggest power groups this year, potentially
contributing 15.7 billion zloty toward the target.  The ministry aims to get a 10 percent to 20 percent premium
over the market price for Enea, Deputy Treasury Minister  Jan Bury  said last month.  Maciej Wewior , a spokesman for the ministry, confirmed by
phone that Poland plans to complete the sale by the end of this
year. He declined to name the bidders.  Katarzyna Majchrzak and Marta Wysocka, Warsaw-based
spokeswomen for EDF and Kulczyk respectively, declined to
comment today. Kamil Socha, a spokesman for GDF in Poland,
didn’t answer a call seeking comment.  Kulczyk is owned by Polish billionaire  Jan Kulczyk , who
previously held stakes in  PKN Orlen SA , Poland’s largest
refiner, and Telekomunikacja Polska SA, the country’s largest
phone company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net ;
 Marek Strzelecki  in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  