-- Treasury Two-Year Yields Hold Near Week Low on Fed Before Housing Report
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-10-19T11:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/treasuries-hold-biggest-gain-in-a-week-on-speculation-home-starts-slowed.html
     Oct. 19 (Bloomberg) --  Treasury  two-year note yields were
near the lowest level in a week on the prospects of more
quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve before a report
forecast to show U.S. housing starts fell in September.  The cost of hedging against losses on U.S. government debt
dropped to the lowest in two months as investors bet the Fed
will increase purchases Treasuries at its Nov. 2-3 meeting to
spur the economy. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week
that additional monetary stimulus may be warranted because
inflation is too low and unemployment is too high.  “Everyone is focused on the next Fed meeting,” said
 Michael Rottmann , head of fixed-income research at UniCredit SpA
in Munich. “Data before then may add to speculation about the
size of QE, but we won’t know until they tell us what they’re
thinking.”  The yield on the 2-year note fell less than one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 0.36 percent at 7:19 a.m. in
New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the
0.375 percent security maturing in September 2012 increased less
than 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100 1/32.  The 2-year yield dropped earlier to 0.35 percent, the
lowest level since Oct. 12, when it touched the record low of
0.3270 percent. The benchmark 10-year note yield was little
changed at 2.51 percent. The yield slid five basis points
yesterday in the biggest decrease since Oct. 6.  Housing starts fell 3 percent in September after a gain of
10.5 percent in the previous month, according to the  median
forecast  of 71 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The report
from the Commerce Department is due at 8:30 a.m. in New York.  Bernanke’s View  Bernanke said on Oct. 15 at a Boston Fed conference that
“there would appear -- all else being equal -- to be a case for
further action.” The central bank may expand asset purchases or
change the language in its statement, he said.  “In the wake of Mr. Bernanke’s clear and unambiguous
speech in Boston on Friday, it would now be a huge surprise if
the Fed chose not to announce” a round of Treasury purchases,
 Ian Shepherdson , chief U.S. economist at High Frequency
Economists Ltd., wrote to clients yesterday. The company, based
in Valhalla, New York, provides economic analysis to
institutional investors.  Credit-default swaps on U.S. debt fell to 36.7 basis points
yesterday, the lowest level since Aug. 5, according to the data
provider CMA.  The swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to
meet its obligations, minus the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting
$10 million of debt.  Outlook for Fed  The Fed will probably announce $1 trillion of Treasury
purchases at its meeting next month, said  Geoff Howie , a senior
vice president at MF Global Singapore Ltd., part of the world’s
largest broker of exchange-traded futures and options.  Longer-maturity bonds will lag behind their shorter
counterparts because the Fed purchases will raise inflation
concern,  David Woo  and  Priya Misra  at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in New York wrote in a report.  The central bank will probably focus its purchases on notes
due in two to six years because of the availability of
Treasuries in those maturities, according to the report
distributed in the U.S. yesterday.  Greater demand for notes over long bonds has increased the
 spread  between 5- and 30-year yields to 2.83 percentage points,
the most since Bloomberg data began tracking the figure. The
result is a steepening of the Treasury yield curve.  ‘More’ Steepening  “More 5s-30s steepening is ahead,” according to Bank of
America, one of 18 primary dealers of U.S. securities that trade
directly with the Fed.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for inflation, has widened to 2.09 percentage points from this
year’s low of 1.47 percent set in August.  Treasuries rose yesterday as a central bank report showed
U.S. industrial production unexpectedly slid last month,
supporting the case for the Fed to increase quantitative easing.  “The overriding factor in this market is the anticipation
of asset purchases by the Fed,” said  Larry Milstein , managing
director of government and agency debt trading in New York at
R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  