-- Reliance Bonds Yield Less Than Mattel on Gas Hunt: India Credit
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-10-20T08:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/reliance-bonds-yielding-less-than-mattel-as-ambani-seeks-gas-india-credit.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. , in selling
30-year bonds at yields lower than U.S. companies with
comparable debt ratings, shows how investor perceptions of
India’s corporations have turned around in two years.  India’s biggest company by market value sold 6.25 percent
2040 bonds at 240 basis points more than U.S. Treasuries last
week.  Mattel Inc. , which has the same rating as Reliance and is
the world’s largest toymaker, priced $250 million of 6.2 percent
bonds due October 2040 last month at an extra yield of 250 basis
points. The average spread for Indian dollar corporate bonds has
dropped to 359 basis points from as high as 2,036 in 2008 during
the global financial crisis, HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show.  Billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  is being offered a
discount by investors confident that Mumbai-based Reliance will
find demand for its energy resources in Asia’s second-fastest-
growing major economy. While nations from Brazil to Thailand
impose taxes to control investment inflows, India in September
raised its limit for foreigners buying rupee bonds.  “In a relatively short time, Indian companies are becoming
highly globalized,” said  Seth Freeman , chief executive officer
of San Francisco-based EM Capital Management LLC, which focuses
on emerging markets including India and Pakistan. “For a whole
basket of reasons besides the rate Reliance is getting,
companies may look at dollar debt.”  Indian international bond sales have climbed to $6 billion
this year from $1.79 billion in all of last year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Pimco Likes India  New Delhi-based  Rural Electrification Corp. , India’s state-
controlled lender to power projects, may sell $500 million in
debt in November, Finance Director  Hari Das Khunteta  said in a
phone interview this month. Essar Energy Plc may issue its first
foreign-currency bonds next year, Chief Financial Officer  P. Sampath  said in a separate interview. Mumbai-based  Axis Bank Ltd. 
hired five lenders to sell $500 million of dollar bonds, a
person familiar with the matter said yesterday, asking not to be
identified because the details are private.  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the $252
billion Total Return Fund from Newport Beach, California, is
buying “high quality” securities in emerging markets such as
India, Chief Operating Officer  Douglas Hodge  said in an Oct. 14
interview.  “We look at the risk-adjusted returns in the developed
world versus the emerging bond markets,” Hodge said in Seoul.
“We continue to find value in emerging markets.”  ‘Critical’ Industry  Ambani, who already owns India’s largest natural gas field,
has shown he’s ready to make overseas acquisitions to create a
global energy group. The company has spent $3.4 billion since
April to buy shale gas assets in the U.S. after failing to
purchase LyondellBasell Industries AF in a deal that would have
valued the Rotterdam, Netherlands-based chemicals maker at $14.5
billion, and losing a bid for oil sands assets in Canada.  Reliance plans to spend at least $8.4 billion over the next
decade in two shale gas ventures in the U.S., according to a
 presentation  it made to investors in July. The company, which
also sold dollar bonds in 1997 and 2007, raised $1.5 billion in
India’s biggest-ever corporate bond sale.  The demand was “a function of having a track record in the
market and being such a big company, and probably because they
are in a critical industry where it is easy to understand that
they are going to grow,” said EM Capital’s Freeman, who
declined to say how much he manages.  Moody’s Investors Service rates both Reliance Industries
and El Segundo, California-based Mattel Baa2, the second-lowest
investment grade, and Standard & Poor’s ranks their debt BBB.  Bond Comparison  The bonds also compare with similar-rated securities from
U.S. insurers Mutual of Omaha Insurance Co. and Lincoln National
Corp. Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Lincoln National’s $500 million
of 7 percent notes due in June 2040 sold at a spread of 280
basis points, or 2.8 percentage points. Mutual of Omaha, based
in Nebraska, offered $300 million of 6.95 percent notes maturing
in October 2040 at a spread of 340 basis points.  The extra yield investors demand to hold India’s top-rated
corporate bonds over government debt has fallen to 61 basis
points from 86 at the start of the year.  The  difference  in yields between Indian government debt due
in a decade and U.S. Treasuries widened 30 basis points this
month to a record 563, versus 375 at the end of 2009.  Default Swaps  India’s 10-year yields were poised to reach a two-year high,
with the yield on the government’s 7.8 percent note due May 2020
rising three basis points to 8.11 percent.  The rupee was near a one-week low at 44.335 a dollar today,
after retreating from a two-year high. The currency has climbed
4.9 percent this year.  The cost of protecting Reliance debt from non-payment was
at 165 basis points, versus 166 at the start of the month,
prices on five-year credit-default swaps from CMA show.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting $10 million of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to $1,000 a year.  “Reliance did have the advantage of getting to investors
early, but I think the demand is such that the window for
similar offerings is still wide open,” said  Vikas Pershad ,
Chicago-based chief executive officer at Veda Investments LLC.
“Not every company will have the appeal to foreign investors
that Reliance has, but I still do think this augurs well for
other Indian companies as they look to raise capital abroad.”  Chemicals Exports  Reliance can tap overseas sales from its refineries to
repay its offshore debt. The company exported fuel and chemicals
worth 328.5 billion rupees ($7.4 billion) in the quarter ended
June 30 compared with 161.5 billion rupees a year earlier, a
 presentation  made by the company to analysts on July 27 showed.
Exports climbed after the company started operating a newer
580,000 barrels-a-day refinery at Jamnagar in the western state
of Gujarat at full capacity.  The crude-processing plant, which started in December 2008,
and the adjacent, older 660,000 barrels-a-day facility together
make up the world’s biggest refining complex at a single
location, according to the company’s  website .  Corporate bonds worldwide have rallied this year, returning
investors 9.3 percent on average, according to Bank of America
Corp. data, as the world economy’s outlook improved and risk
appetite revived. India has seen  unprecedented overseas demand 
for bonds.  “This is a fantastic time for Indian companies to issue
foreign currency bonds,” said EM Capital’s Freeman. “What will
become more interesting to observe is how, say, the BSE 100
companies or the Nifty 50 companies, if they go out and borrow,
the ones smaller than Reliance, what kind of rating they are
going to get.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore on 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net 
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  