-- Rice Advances for a Sixth Day on Speculation Weather May Limit Production
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2010-10-19T10:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/rice-advances-for-a-sixth-day-on-speculation-weather-may-limit-production.html
Rice gained for a sixth day in
Chicago on speculation that adverse weather may curb production
in the U.S., the world’s third-biggest exporter of the grain,
and the Philippines, the largest importer.  No rain has fallen in parts of Arkansas, the biggest U.S.
rice producer, in the past 60 days, National Weather Service
 data  show. Plants in the Philippines may have been “severely
affected” by Typhoon Megi, the strongest to hit the country
this year, the Department of Agriculture said today.  “The big story in rice is the extremely poor field yields
in” U.S. growing regions, said  Dennis DeLaughter , owner of
Progressive Farm Marketing and a rice grower based in Edna,
Texas. “We are now hearing 20 percent loss and going up.”  Rice futures for January delivery advanced 9 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $14.07 per hundred pounds at 11:21 a.m. London time
on the Chicago Board of Trade. Prices have climbed 12 percent
this month. A higher close today would mark the contract’s
longest winning streak in more than two months.  The Philippines may lose 600,000 metric tons from its rice
crop, Agriculture Undersecretary Antonio Fleta said yesterday.
Potential crop losses may boost the island archipelago’s import
needs by 500,000 tons, pushing prices higher in Chicago and
Thailand, Chookiat Ophaswongse, former president of the Thai
Rice Exporters Association, said yesterday.  Thai rice prices may rise by as much as $20 a metric ton,
Chookiat said.  Crop losses may widen in areas affected by the typhoon,
potentially increasing import needs and pushing global prices
higher, said Kiattisak Kanlayasirivat, a director at Novel
Commodities SA’s Thai office, which trades about $600 million
worth of rice every year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 