-- RIM Advances After Lazaridis Demos PlayBook Tablet
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-10-26T20:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/rim-s-balsillie-says-customers-getting-tired-of-apple-business-approach.html
Research In Motion Ltd.  climbed the
most in more than three months as an analyst said the company’s
demonstration of its PlayBook tablet computer suggests it may be
a credible rival to  Apple Inc. ’s iPad.  Investors are beginning to understand the importance of the
company’s tablet,  Tero Kuittinen , an analyst at MKM Partners LP,
said today in a research note distributed to clients. He
reiterated his “buy” recommendation for the stock.  RIM is trying to differentiate itself from Apple and others
in the increasingly crowded market for tablets by stressing the
PlayBook’s ability to handle  Adobe Systems Inc. ’s Flash
technology that underpins much of the video content on the
Internet. The iPad doesn’t run Flash video or animation.  “RIM is taking a diametrically opposite approach by giving
customers the freedom to experience the whole Web,” Kuittinen
said in his note.  RIM rose $3.04, or 5.9 percent, to $54.76 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the  shares ’ biggest
daily gain since July 9. They have fallen 19 percent this year.  RIM didn’t demonstrate how the device worked when the
company first displayed it Sept. 27 in San Francisco, which
“invited speculation that the PlayBook unveiling may have been
premature,” said Kuittinen.  The stock’s gains today and yesterday, when it rose
5.5 percent, “may be due to the market’s continued digestion
and increasing approval” of the PlayBook, he said.  Yesterday in a video posted to the website YouTube, RIM Co-
Chief Executive Officer  Mike Lazaridis  was shown at a conference
in Los Angeles, scrolling through images and playing video with
Flash on the PlayBook.  The demonstration showed the PlayBook is “real,
powerful,” RBC Capital Markets analyst  Mike Abramsky  said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  