-- Rio to Spend $3.1 Billion on Australian Ore Expansion
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-10-20T06:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/rio-approves-3-1-billion-spending-to-expand-pilbara-iron-ore-production.html
Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-
largest mining company, approved a $3.1 billion expansion of its
Australian iron ore operations, two days after scrapping a joint
venture with BHP Billiton Ltd. to combine their ore mines.  The expansion will raise iron ore capacity in Western
Australia’s Pilbara region to 283 million metric tons in 2013,
the London-based company said today in a statement. Melbourne-
based BHP, which is also expanding output, today reported a 6
percent gain in first-quarter iron ore production.  The two companies, the second-and third-largest exporters
of iron ore, are pressing ahead with separate plans to boost
production after being forced to abandon the venture because of
opposition from regulators in Asia and Europe. They are seeking
to meet demand from steel mills in China, where usage of the
alloy is forecast by Rio to double by 2020 from 2008 levels.  “They’ve got clarity that the joint venture is not going
to go ahead, so they will be rolling out these expansion plans
pretty quickly,”  Mark Pervan , Melbourne-based head of commodity
research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said by
phone today. “The iron ore market is clearly the best market to
be leveraged towards Chinese growth.”  BHP declined 0.7 percent to A$40.88 at the 4:10 p.m. Sydney
time close on the Australian stock exchange. Rio fell 1.7
percent.  10 Cities  China will build 10 cities larger than New York by 2025 and
will need to import more steel, iron ore, coal, aluminum and
copper, Rio’s Chief Economist  Vivek Tulpule  said this month. The
nation’s economic growth will reach 10 percent in 2011, the
Caijing Magazine reported this month, citing a report issued by
the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.  Rio  today also approved a study to expand capacity 50
percent to 333 million tons by the second half of 2015. It
expects to approve more spending in the next year to build mines
and housing for the initial expansion to 283 million tons.  “This is the largest mining project ever undertaken in
Australia and highlights the quality of our growth options,”
Rio’s Chief Executive Officer of Iron Ore and Australia  Sam Walsh  said in the statement. It confirms “our confidence in the
long-term outlook for iron ore demand,” he said.  Rio approved $1.3 billion in  spending  last quarter to lift
capacity to 230 million tons from 220 million tons. It has now
approved $6 billion of spending on the Pilbara operations since
July, it said. The spending announced today will be used to
build new wharves, stockyards and buy car dumpers, stackers and
trains, it said.  Germany, Japan  BHP is working on a near-doubling of iron ore production to
240 million tons by 2013. It’s spending $4.8 billion on the
fifth part of the so-called Rapid Growth Projects that will add
50 million tons. The fourth stage of the expansion program
boosted output in the quarter, it said today.  BHP and Rio scrapped their joint venture, which aimed to
save $10 billion in costs, after the regulators sought changes,
including assets sales, which were unacceptable to both
companies. Antitrust authorities in Germany and Japan last week
said they opposed the deal.  The European Commission was also likely to raise formal
objections, two people familiar with the plan said last week.
The companies were informed of the results of the commission’s
preliminary investigation on Oct. 15.  Plan B  A so-called “Plan B,” based on a separate agreement with
the state of Western Australia to allow the companies to share
infrastructure and blend ore is unlikely to proceed, UBS AG
analysts led by  Glyn Lawcock  said today in a report. The
legislation allowing such co-operation is expected to be
introduced by the end of the year, the state’s premier  Colin Barnett  said after the deal collapsed. The agreement also
included higher iron ore royalty rates due to Western Australia.  BHP is threatening to walk away from a mining tax agreement
with the Australian government after Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  said future increases in state mining royalties would
not be offset by cuts to the federal levy, the Australian
newspaper reported today, citing an unidentified person familiar
with the matter. BHP believes this position contravenes the
provisions of the July accord, the newspaper said.  “We’ve said all along we will credit existing royalties
and scheduled increases,” Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  told
reporters in Canberra today. “We obviously won’t be giving a
green light to state and territory governments to increase their
royalties in a way which means the federal government
effectively foots the bill.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net 
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  