-- Risk Appetite Surges on Prospects for Central Bank Easing, Merrill Says
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-10-19T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/risk-appetite-surges-on-prospects-for-central-bank-easing-merrill-says.html
Investors’ risk appetite surged the
most in 18 months in October as optimism of a second wave of
quantitative easing prompted asset allocators to buy equities, a
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research survey showed.  A gauge of risk and liquidity jumped to 43 from 37 last
month while hedge funds continued to increase their net equity
exposure to the highest level this year, according to the
survey. A net 27 percent of respondents, who together manage
$492 billion, said they were “overweight” equities, up from 10
percent in September.  The  MSCI World Index  has rallied 3.7 percent so far this
month as minutes from last month’s Federal Reserve meeting
showed the central bank was prepared to ease monetary policy
further and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at conference in
Boston that additional stimulus may be warranted.  The survey “sees a resurgence in risk appetite compared to
the caution of the last three months as the prospect of QE in
the U.S. is forcing portfolio adjustments,”  Gary Baker , London-
based head of European equity strategy at BofA Merrill Lynch,
said in the report. “Equities as an asset class have benefited
from this sentiment shift but the focus is on emerging markets
and commodities.”  A net 17 percent of asset allocators were overweight
commodities in October, up from 4 percent last month as the
proportion of those overweight cash fell to 6 percent from 18
percent. Emerging markets remained the region of choice amongst
the survey’s 283 respondents.  Forty-nine percent of money managers are now overweight
developing-markets equities, the highest level since 2009. That
compares with a net 3 percent overweight for European stocks.
Respondents continued to be underweight in U.S., U.K. and
Japanese equities.  As of January last year, Merrill Lynch changed the format
of its survey and no longer publishes full historical data. A
total of 283 fund managers participated in this month’s survey,
which was conducted between Oct. 8 and Oct. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  