-- Roubini Says U.S., Europe Slowdown Will Curtail Growth in Emerging Markets
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2010-10-19T09:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/roubini-says-u-s-europe-slowdown-will-curtail-growth-in-emerging-markets.html
Nouriel Roubini , the New York
University professor who predicted the global financial crisis,
said slowing economic growth in advanced economies will
eventually curtail the recovery in emerging markets.  U.S. economic growth may slow to 1 percent by the end of
this year from 1.7 percent in the second quarter as fiscal
stimulus becomes a “fiscal drag,” Roubini said at a conference
in Kiev organized by Investment Capital Ukraine. A sluggish
recovery in the U.S., western Europe and Japan will eventually
slow growth in emerging markets, he said.  “My base scenario is that we will have a slow, U-shaped
recovery in the advanced economies, but still there is a
probability of a double-dip recession, or near depression, as in
Japan in the 1990s,” Roubini said. “The recovery in advanced
economies is still very tentative.”  Federal Reserve policy makers last month said U.S.
growth was likely to be “modest in the near term” and added
that they were prepared to ease monetary policy further if
needed. The U.S. economy has grown for the past four quarters
after exiting its worst recession since the 1930s.  “If growth is only 1 percent, it is going to feel like
recession, though technically it will not be a recession,”
Roubini said. “You don’t create private jobs, the budget
deficit widens, house prices go down instead of stabilizing.”  While Roubini forecast a “V-shaped” recovery for many
parts of Asia and Latin America, including China, India and
Brazil, he said growth in emerging markets would be weaker in
the second half of this year and into 2011. China’s economy grew
at an annual rate of 10.3 percent in the second quarter.  Eurozone Periphery  Roubini, who in October 2008 said he still saw
“significant downside risks to equity markets,” failed to
predict the stock market rebound that sent shares across the
globe soaring over the past 18 months. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 
Index has gained 73 percent since dropping to a March 2009 low.  Today, Roubini warned that the “fundamental problems” of
Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain haven’t been resolved
after Europe’s sovereign debt crisis. The euro may strengthen
against the dollar as the Federal Reserve eases monetary policy,
potentially extending the recession in these countries, he said.  “I am worried about the five countries on the periphery of
the eurozone,” Roubini said. While there is a risk these
countries may leave the eurozone, “I think the break up is less
likely than restructuring of public debt,” he said.  Roubini also said there is a danger of trade wars breaking
out as countries weaken their currencies to stimulate exports.  “We are in a world where everybody wants to grow” through
exports, he said. “The risk of trade war is severe in relations
between the U.S. and China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net 
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  