-- Rubber in Tokyo and Shanghai Pare Gains on Dollar (Correct)
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-10-22T11:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/rubber-futures-climb-nearing-27-month-high-on-u-s-fed-easing-speculation.html
(Corrects title of official in final paragraph of story
first published Oct. 19)  Rubber in Tokyo and Shanghai pared
gains as the dollar rebounded, after climbing earlier amid
supply disruptions and on speculation that the U.S. Federal
Reserve will ease monetary policy.  The most-active contract on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange
added as much as 2.2 percent to 342.5 yen per kilogram ($4,207 a
metric ton) before settling at 338.6 yen. Futures reached 343
yen on Oct. 15, the highest level since July 2008.  The dollar strengthened for a third day against the euro as
a decline in Asian stocks boosted demand for safer assets and
traders judged the greenback’s 6 percent slide in the past month
was overdone. The Dollar Index, used by IntercontinentalExchange
Inc. to track the greenback against the currencies of six major
U.S. trading partners, advanced 0.5 percent to 77.352.  “The dollar’s climb spurred sales of commodities, limiting
gains on Tocom,” Chaiwat Muenmee, analyst at Bangkok-based
commodity broker DS Futures Co., said by phone today.
“Fundamentally, rubber prices can rise further as output has
been damaged from heavy rains and floods.”  Stocks rallied earlier after data showed an unexpected 0.2
percent decrease in U.S. output at factories, mines and
utilities last month, adding to signs the Fed will need to
purchase more securities to bolster the economic recovery after
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled last week more quantitative
easing is likely.  “Investor risk appetite increased as the U.S. economic
data strengthened speculation that the Fed will decide to take
additional easing steps at their meeting next month,” Shuji
Sugata, research manager at Mitsubishi Corp. Futures Ltd. in
Tokyo, said today by phone.  Shanghai Record  March-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
climbed 4.5 percent to a record 33,000 yuan ($4,966) a ton
before closing at 31,720 yuan.  In the cash market, RSS-3 grade rubber for shipment in
November gained 0.3 percent to 120.05 baht ($4.02) a kilogram,
boosted by sustained demand from China to replenish stockpiles,
while supply remains low amid continued heavy rains, according
to the Rubber Research Institute of Thailand.  A severe drought in Yunnan at the beginning of this year
and recent torrential rain in Hainan, the top two producing
areas in China, will reduce domestic rubber output, according to
Guo Cheng, an analyst at Yongan Futures Co.  Natural-rubber imports by China, the world’s largest user,
jumped 19 percent from a month ago to 190,000 tons in September
as the nation’s passenger-car sales to dealerships quickened
from August on additional incentives.  Ghana plans to increase rubber output 83 percent by 2017 to
meet rising demand in China and India, a senior official at the
West African nation’s Ministry of Food and Agriculture said.  The state-owned Agricultural Development Bank of Ghana will
support farmers with 14 million euros ($19.7 million) from next
year to start new rubber plantations that will add 15,000 tons
to output, helping it reach 33,000 tons by 2017, Joseph Baidoo-
Williams, head of the ministry’s tree crops development unit,
said in an Oct. 14 interview. The ADB is getting money from the
French government to finance the loans, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  