-- Rupee Trades Near One-Week Low on Concern Capital Flows to India Will Slow
-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 2010-10-19T12:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/rupee-declines-on-speculation-foreign-capital-inflows-into-india-will-slow.html
India’s rupee traded near its lowest
level in almost a week on speculation capital flows from abroad
will slow after  Coal India Ltd.  completes the nation’s biggest
initial share sale on Oct. 21.  The currency declined 0.6 percent this week as a measure
that weighs company earnings against their share prices signaled
Indian equities are the costliest in Asia, adding to speculation
foreign investment will decline. The rupee also dropped on
concern the South Asian nation’s widening  trade deficit  will
boost demand for dollars.  “The current pace of equity inflows may not be sustainable,
particularly as Indian stocks now appear overvalued as per the
price-to-earnings ratio,” said  Priyanka Chakravarty , a Mumbai-
based foreign-exchange strategist at Standard Chartered Plc. “A
slowdown in capital inflows may lead to a renewed focus on the
risks of the widening trade deficit.”  The rupee traded at 44.345 per dollar as of the 5 p.m.
close in Mumbai, compared with 44.365 yesterday, the weakest
closing level since Oct. 13, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It slid 0.6 percent yesterday, the most since Sept. 7.
The currency touched a high of 43.96 on Oct. 15. Standard
Chartered predicts it will weaken to 45.5 by Dec. 31.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.14 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 44.97
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  PE Ratio  Overseas investors have pumped a record $23.3 billion into
Indian stocks this year, according to exchange data. The so-
called price-to-earnings  ratio  of the Bombay Stock Exchange’s
Sensitive Index climbed to 19.6 yesterday from as low as 16.1 in
May, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Coal India, the world’s biggest producer of the fuel,
received bids worth 1.7 times the $3.4 billion share offer on
the second day of the sale that opened yesterday, data on the
National Stock Exchange’s website showed.  The government is comfortable with a rate between 43 and 45
per dollar, a Finance Ministry official with direct knowledge of
the matter, who asked not to be identified because the issue is
sensitive, said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Anil Varma  at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  