-- Russian Retail Sales Fall for First Time in Seven Months as Incomes Slump
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2010-10-19T16:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/russian-retail-sales-declined-in-september-on-shrinking-disposable-incomes.html
Russian  retail sales  fell in
September for the first time since February after disposable
incomes shrank, signaling a possible slowdown in the economic
recovery.  Retail sales dropped 1.9 percent and disposable income fell
0.2 percent from the previous month, the Moscow-based Federal
State Statistics Service said in an e-mailed statement. On an
annual basis, the average  monthly wage  gained 5.1 percent and
retail sales rose 4.7 percent, less than the 7 percent median
forecast of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Weaker retail sales and lower real wage growth highlight
the downside risks from the  inflation  spike to recovery in
private consumption,” said  Anna Zadornova , a London-based
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “We expect GDP growth to
slow significantly in the second half of 2010” and reach 3.5
percent for the full year, she said in a research note today.  The  economy  may expand as little as 3.6 percent in 2010,
less than the government’s official 4 percent forecast, Deputy
Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said on Sept. 24. Inflation may
exceed 8 percent, he said. “Signs of unstable economic growth
remain” as Russia recovers from a 7.9 percent contraction last
year, the biggest on record, Bank Rossii said in a statement
last month. The central bank left its main interest rates
unchanged in September.  Unemployment fell to 6.6 percent last month, the lowest
level since October, 2008. Capital investment rose an annual 9.4
percent, the statistics office said.  Industrial production  growth slowed to an annual 6.2
percent in September, compared with 7 percent the month before.  “We need a new quality of growth,”  Andrei Kostin , chief
executive officer of VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest lender,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television on Oct. 5. “We
need a restructuring of the economy if we want to avoid the
situation which we faced during the crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  