-- Sanofi-Aventis Wins $442 Million Award Against Apotex Over Plavix Patent
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2010-10-19T21:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/sanofi-aventis-wins-442-million-award-against-apotex-over-plavix-patent.html
Sanofi-Aventis SA  won a $442 million
judgment against Apotex Inc. over the patent for the blood
thinner Plavix, the world’s second-biggest selling drug.  Today’s opinion by U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein  in
Manhattan set the amount of damages awarded to Paris-based
Sanofi and also granted interest on the award since August 2006,
according to a court filing.  Sanofi  filed a patent-infringement lawsuit against closely
held Apotex in 2002 and won a preliminary injunction against the
Toronto-based company four years later. In a five-week bench
trial in 2007, Stein found Sanofi’s patent on Plavix was valid
and enforceable, and Apotex violated the patent by making and
distributing a generic form of the drug.  Sanofi asked for half of Apotex’s net sales of the generic
copy, which totaled more than $884 million, according to the
filing. Apotex said it should pay only 40 percent of sales,
because Sanofi had marketed an authorized generic version of the
drug.  Stein granted Sanofi’s request, saying the French company
had lowered the price for branded Plavix, not introduced a
generic version of the drug. Apotex’s infringing sales came in a
three-week period in August 2006, during which it “flooded the
market with its generic product” before the court barred it
from continuing, according to the filing.  Plavix Partner  Joining Sanofi as plaintiff in the case was a partnership
the company has with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co . Sanofi owns the
Plavix patent and New York-based Bristol-Myers sells the drug in
the U.S.  Sanofi and Bristol-Myers are “pleased” with the judgment,
said  Ken Dominski , a spokesman for Bristol-Myers, in an e-mail.
He declined to specify the division of the damages between the
two plaintiffs.  Carrie Brown, a spokeswoman for Sanofi, and  Elie Betito  of
Apotex didn’t return calls seeking comment.  The case is Sanofi-Synthelabo v. Apotex Inc., 02cv2255, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 