-- Saskatchewan Premier to Announce Decision on BHP's Potash Offer on Oct. 21
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-10-19T22:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/saskatchewan-premier-to-announce-decision-on-bhp-s-potash-offer-on-oct-21.html
Saskatchewan Premier  Brad Wall  will
announce the province’s position on  BHP Billiton Ltd. ’s $40
billion hostile bid for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  on
Oct. 21, a government spokesman said.  The response is going to be given at a lunchtime speech in
Regina, Saskatchewan, Andrew Dinsmore, a spokesman for Energy
and Resources Minister  Bill Boyd , said today in a telephone
interview.  The Canadian government has until Nov. 3 to block the $130-
a-share bid if it finds it doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to
the country, unless BHP agrees to an extension of the review.
Canadian Industry Minister  Tony Clement  said last week the
federal government is considering all points of view, including
that of the Saskatchewan government, on the benefit of the BHP
bid to Canada.  Boyd  said in an Oct. 6 interview with Bloomberg Television
BHP’s offer doesn’t appear to be beneficial to his province. A
report by the Conference Board of Canada, commissioned by the
province, said Saskatchewan would lose C$2 billion ($1.94
billion) in tax revenue over 10 years should BHP’s bid succeed.  Saskatchewan won’t support BHP’s takeover bid, the
Financial Post  reported , citing an unidentified person close to
the transaction.  Ralph Goodale , deputy leader of Canada’s main opposition
Liberals, said today he may call on Clement to oppose BHP’s
offer, citing concern that the offer price is too low and BHP
may dominate the potash-fertilizer industry.  Potash Corp., the world’s largest producer of its namesake
crop nutrient, in August rejected Melbourne-based BHP’s offer as
too low and said it was seeking other offers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net ;
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 