-- SEC Sues Georgia Hedge-Fund Managers for Overvaluing Assets to Boost Fees
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-10-19T18:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/sec-sues-georgia-hedge-fund-managers-for-overvaluing-assets-to-boost-fees.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued two Georgia-based hedge-fund managers, claiming
they defrauded investors by overvaluing illiquid assets to hide
losses and collect higher management fees.  Paul Mannion  and  Andrew Reckles  inflated the value of a
stake in World Health Alternatives Inc. in 2005 after placing
the investment in a so-called side pocket to keep clients from
withdrawing funds, the SEC said in a  lawsuit  filed today at U.S.
District Court in Atlanta. The SEC, which is seeking unspecified
fines and disgorgement, accused the two men of stealing about
$1.6 million from investor funds. They deny the SEC’s claims.  Mannion, 48, and Reckles, 40, had invested at least 20
percent of clients’ assets in World Health when the now-bankrupt
firm announced it was being investigated for accounting fraud,
driving the stock down more than 90 percent in two weeks, the
SEC said. To keep clients from redeeming their investments, they
moved the holdings into a side pocket, the agency said. Side-
pocket holdings must be sold before clients can get their share
of the funds back.  “Side pockets are not supposed to be a dumping ground for
hedge-fund managers to conceal overvalued assets,” said  Robert Kaplan , co-head of the SEC unit that polices asset managers.
“Mannion and Reckles deceived investors about the fund’s
performance and extracted excessive management fees based on the
inflated asset values.”  They told investors in a September 2005 letter that their
World Health stock holdings were worth about $4.12 million when
the stake was actually worth “at most” $362,000, according to
the lawsuit.  ‘Strongly Deny’  Mannion and Reckles “strongly deny” the allegations and
will fight them in court, said  Stavroula Lambrakopoulos , their
attorney at K&L Gates LLP, in a phone interview. As the stock
plummeted after the fraud investigation was announced, “no
valuation was reliable at that stage,” Lambrakopoulos said.  No clients lost money because of the conduct, she said.
World Health filed for bankruptcy in February 2006.  Kaplan’s unit has been probing hedge funds’ use of side
pockets in the wake of the financial crisis after managers used
them to segregate illiquid assets to avoid selling them at fire-
sale prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 