-- Secret New Jersey Swamp Oozes Major League Mud: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-10-19T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/secret-new-jersey-swamp-oozes-baseball-s-mud-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Major League Baseball, more than any
other big-time U.S. sport, has its history passed from old to
young, from grandparent to child. It’s a veritable story time in
the bleachers and clubhouses, where players with plenty of prep
time tell tales shared by those who came before.  It’s strange, then, that so few big-league ballplayers know
about Lena Blackburne and his super-secret  mud  hole, which has
been helping pitchers to grip baseballs for almost 75 years.  “I just grab the ball and throw it,” said New York
Yankees right-hander  A.J. Burnett , ignorant of the fact that
without the efforts of a Phillies fan working a second job
somewhere in the muck and mire of the Delaware River, his
grabbing the baseball, especially in the October chill, wouldn’t
be so easy.  Ask any pitcher about the mud that clubhouse attendants rub
on baseballs prior to games and all of them will give you an
opinion on how much is the right amount. For  Phil Hughes  of the
Yankees, for instance, the philosophy is like that old tag line
for  Brylcreem : a little dab’ll do ya.  “I prefer them without as much mud,” said Hughes, who,
like Burnett, didn’t know anything more about the mud’s origins.  Texas Rangers President  Nolan Ryan , a hall-of-fame pitcher
whose fastball sported a vapor trail, liked his game-day
baseballs darker than most. The more mud the merrier.  “Oh, how I’d like to talk with Nolan Ryan,” says 53-year-
old Jim Bintliff, the man behind the mud since his 19th
birthday. “Every ball they touch has a piece of me on it.”  That’s some sentiment. And Bintliff is big on
sentimentality.  New Jersey Muckraker  You should’ve heard a giddy Bintliff, who lives in  Delran,
New Jersey , about 18 miles from Philadelphia, talking about  Roy Halladay  of the Phillies becoming the first pitcher since  Don Larsen  in 1956 to throw a no-hitter in the postseason. To think
he played a tiny part in that. What Bintliff really covets is a
conversation with  Jamie Moyer , who at the age of 47 is still
pitching for the Phillies.  “He probably bought mud from my grandfather,” Bintliff
joked.  Grandpa was friends with Blackburne, a third base coach for
the Philadelphia Athletics who in 1938 took it upon himself to
find a solution when an umpire complained about the condition of
the baseballs used by the American League.  To make a long story short, Blackburne passed along the
business to Bintliff’s grandfather. It has been in the family
since.  Undisclosed Location  Bintliff’s first memory of harvesting mud came as a 10-
year-old, when he climbed into his grandfather’s ‘65 Chevy
Impala, drove to the secret spot in New Jersey and put the mud
into a metal kettle. Today, fewer than 15 people know the
location of the mud hole.  “And most of them are family,” says Bintliff, a father of
four whose wife, Joanne, is in charge of the administration side
of the business, taking orders, shipping and billing.  Bintliff harvests mud six or seven times a year. He adds
secret ingredients and lets it age in 35-gallon trash cans.  “It’s very peaceful,” he said. “I’d enjoy doing it even
if I wasn’t making money.”  Ah, the money. Just because  baseball  is a multibillion-
dollar enterprise doesn’t mean there’s much dough in dirt.
Common misconception, says Bintliff, whose day job, so to speak,
has him working the night shift as a printing press operator.  “A $10 million a year pitcher has no control without my
mud,” Bintliff says. “I can’t even afford to buy season
tickets with the money I make.”  Eye on Pitchers  So, like most fans, Bintliff watches on television. He
focuses intently on the pitcher’s reaction when he receives a
new baseball from the umpire. Too much mud, perhaps. Not enough?  There have been plenty of changes in baseball throughout
the years. Only one of any significance in the mud business. In
the early ‘80s, Bintliff switched to plastic containers instead
of coffee cans, which would rust and adversely affect the color
of the mud.  According to Bintliff, about 10 years ago Rawlings Sporting
Goods, a unit of  Jarden Corp. , tried to reproduce his mud. It
didn’t work. Good story.  Bintliff is full of stories. Like his first baseball memory
-- a bus ride to  Shibe Park . Or the time he met former Phillies
pitcher Mitch Williams, who at the time was a coach with the
Atlantic City Surf.  Bintliff got a signed baseball. Williams got a signed
bucket of mud, which, like the sport’s  history , is passed from
one generation to the next.  You have to think that Moyer would enjoy chatting about
that.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  