-- Serbian Finance Minister Says 2011 Budget Draft Sees Deficit at 4% of GDP
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-10-19T12:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/serbian-finance-minister-says-2011-budget-draft-sees-deficit-at-4-of-gdp.html
Serbia’s government is preparing a
2011 budget draft that foresees a deficit at 4 percent of
economic output after raising alcohol, cigarette and property
taxes to boost revenue, Finance Minister  Diana Dragutinovic 
said.  The shortfall target is 115 billion dinars ($1.5 billion)
to 120 billion dinars, based on growth of 3 percent, she said in
an interview today at a Euromoney conference in Belgrade. That
compares with a 150 billion-dinar gap this year, equivalent to
4.8 percent of gross domestic product.  The Serbian government is struggling to find ways to reduce
spending and boost tax collection without cutting too many
popular social benefits as it brings the economy into line with
European Union norms. Dragutinovic said there is room for some
higher taxes that won’t be considered too draconian.  “Considering that the European Union has raised excise
duties from around 64 to 90 euros per 1,000 cigarettes, giving
countries in our region until 2017 to adjust, it’s a great
opportunity for us to adjust too, because Serbia has the lowest
cigarette prices and taxes in Europe,” Dragutinovic said.  According to proposed property tax changes, Serbian
homeowners will be paying 0.4 percent of the value of their
property based on “more-realistic valuations,” she said.  “For 70 percent of homeowners, there will be no practical
change,” while the owners of more expensive property will be
paying more, adding funds to the country’s budget, she said.  Changes to excise duties on alcoholic beverages are based
on taxing the percentage of alcohol, rather than the quantity,
while higher excise duties on cigarettes were expected to bring
Serbian cigarette price and taxation policy more in line with
the EU, Dragutinovic said.  Dragutinovic’s comments come days before an IMF mission
arrives in Belgrade, for the next review of Serbia’s progress
under its 3 billion-euro loan.  The talks with the lender will focus on government plans to
revise the 2010 budget to allow a one-time payment of 5,000
dinars to low-income pensioners, as well as on the budget for
2011, a year before elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  