-- Sirius XM Explores Alternatives for Life Without Howard Stern
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2010-10-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/sirius-xm-ceo-karmazin-explores-alternatives-for-life-without-howard-stern.html
Sirius XM Radio Inc.  is exploring
programming alternatives in case the satellite broadcaster and
talk-show host  Howard Stern  aren’t able to agree on a new
contract, Chief Executive Officer  Mel Karmazin  said.  Stern, whose five-year, $500 million contract expires in
December, is continuing to negotiate with the New York-based
company and a resolution will come before the end of the year,
Karmazin, 67, said in an interview yesterday. Sirius XM
stations, such as Raw Dog Comedy and Playboy Radio, would help
retain many of Stern’s listeners if he left, he said.  “There’s no deal,” Karmazin said. “The only announcement
will be when there is a deal, or there’s not a deal. And I’m
hopeful there will be a deal.”  Stern is responsible for adding about 2 million subscribers
to Sirius XM since he moved to satellite radio from terrestrial
in January 2006, according to  Tuna Amobi , an analyst at Standard
& Poor’s in New York. Total subscribers may surpass 20 million
before the end of the year, Sirius XM said this month.  Karmazin declined to give an estimate of how many
subscribers would cancel the service if Stern leaves. Without
Stern, Sirius XM would “save $100 million a year” and use the
money to fill the programming gap with various types of shows,
he said.  “You don’t try to replace Howard,” Karmazin said. “I
don’t think there’s a radio personality that’s out there that we
would bring in and say to the Howard Stern fans ‘let us
introduce you to this new talent.’”  Budget Savings  Karmazin said he would use the budget savings to “go and
try to get different people who might appeal to different
audiences.” Sirius XM, the only satellite radio provider in the
U.S., might “expand our classical music, or maybe we would do a
little more in the opera area, or maybe we would do something
that we’re not doing today.”  Don Buchwald , Stern’s agent, didn’t immediately return
telephone and e-mail messages seeking comment.  “Howard has a great deal of options, many options
available to him,” said Karmazin, referring to reports that
Stern may introduce his own online service.  Sirius XM will receive about 2 percent of its $2.8 billion
in revenue this year from advertising, Karmazin said. While ads
during Stern’s programs are capped to 6 minutes per hour, Sirius
XM’s ad sales department insists they could sell more, he said.  “I want that subscriber to be very happy,” Karmazin said.  Karmazin said he doesn’t see any potential acquisitions for
Sirius XM, which had $258.9 million in  cash  at the end of the
second quarter.  “There’s nothing out there that fits our core
competencies,” he said.  Buybacks, Dividends  The company might return cash to shareholders through
buybacks or dividends, Karmazin said. Such a move will become
increasingly likely as Sirius XM continues to lower its debt and
build cash flow, though there’s no target date for such action,
he said.  Sirius XM projects adjusted earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization to reach $575 million for
2010, compared with $463 million last year, Karmazin said at
investor conference this month.  Last week, Sirius XM sold $700 million of eight-year
senior notes in a boosted offering, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The 7.625 percent notes were unsecured, and used
to pay off 11.25 notes, Karmazin said.  Sirius XM was  unchanged  at $1.38 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. The shares have more than doubled this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 