-- SKF Buys Lincoln Industrial for $1 Billion From Harbour to Tap U.S., Asia
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2010-10-19T11:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/skf-buys-lincoln-industrial-for-1-billion-from-harbour-to-tap-u-s-asia.html
SKF AB , the world’s largest ball
bearing maker, agreed to buy  Lincoln Industrial Corp. , the 100-
year-old maker of lubrication pumps, for $1 billion to tap
demand for equipment in North America and Asia.  SKF will pay cash for the Missouri company, put up for sale
by investment firm Harbour Group, the Gothenburg, Sweden-based
company said in a statement. SKF surged as much as 11 percent in
Stockholm to its highest in more than two decades, after saying
profit rose and increasing its outlook.  Chief Executive Officer  Tom Johnstone  said he’d been
tracking Lincoln for several years before making a move. The
U.S. business will add $400 million in sales to SKF’s existing
lubrication-tools business as the company branches out from
bearings used in washing machines and the car  industry .  “Lincoln seems to be a primary competitor in North
America, so this is a very interesting, strategic acquisition
that expands its market there,” said  Soeren Lontoft Hansen , an
analyst with  Sydbank A/S  in Aabenraa, Denmark, who rates SKF’s
shares “overweight.”  After having  eliminated 6,500 jobs  during the crisis that
started in 2008, the company’s now benefiting from a global
increase in manufacturing, including higher sales of components
to the automotive industry in Asia.  ‘Uncertainties’  “There are still some uncertainties, but it’s clear the
worst is behind us,” Johnstone said in an interview in
Stockholm today. “In Asia and Latin America, we have all-time
records in sales, but we still have some time to go as a
group.”  The price paid for Lincoln is equal to 2.5 times sales. SKF
paid 1.1 times sales when it bought a similar business based in
Finland four years ago.  Acquiring Lincoln will broaden SKF’s product offering and
geographical coverage. Harbour and its investment bankers at
Robert W. Baird & Co. aimed to get interest from big industrial
companies, including  Ingersoll-Rand Plc . An attempt to sell the
business in 2008 failed. Lincoln has about 2,000 employees.  “We saw the opportunity for continued growth under our
ownership, but we realized that this was a strong strategic
fit,” Harbour Chairman and CEO  Jeffrey Fox  said in a statement.  M&A  The accord also marks a pick-up in acquisitions that’s set
to continue, Sydbank’s Hansen said.  Yesterday, Assa Abloy AB, the world’s largest maker of
locks, announced a 100 million-euro ($139 million) purchase of a
minority stake in Groupe Agta Record, a maker of automatic door
systems. That deal may be a prelude to a full-blown merger with
its Swiss rival, the Swedish company said.  Munters AB , a Swedish maker of heat exchangers, received
takeover bids from  Alfa Laval AB  and private equity company
Nordic Capital, valuing the target at as much as 5.69 billion
kronor ($850 million).  SKF’s acquisition announcement coincided with  earnings  that
beat analysts’ estimates and the unveiling of new financial
targets. SKF shares gained as much as 16.2 kronor to 168.7
kronor, and traded at 167.8 kronor as of 1:32 p.m.  Earnings Beat  Third-quarter profit more than tripled as sales to
automotive and industrial customers continued to recover. Net
income jumped to 1.39 billion kronor, or 3.05 kronor per share,
from 462 million kronor, or 1.01 kronor.  Profit beat the 1.18 billion-krona average  estimate  in a
Bloomberg survey of 17 analysts. Sales rose 16 percent to 15.5
billion kronor.  SKF raised its financial targets, including increasing its
operating margin goal to 15 percent from 12 percent. The margin
was 14.9 percent in the quarter, up from 7.2 percent a year
earlier.  Johnstone said he plans to hire 1,000 workers in Asia in
2011, adding to the 900 positions the company has added so far
this year in that region.  SKF, considered an industrial bellwether for its diverse
customer base, was the first among Sweden’s biggest
manufacturers to report earnings.  Atlas Copco AB , the world’s
largest maker of air compressors, and  Alfa Laval , the biggest
manufacturer of heat exchangers, will post third-quarter reports
on Oct. 22.  Sandvik AB , the biggest maker of metal-cutting
tools, plans to publish earnings on Oct. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 