-- South African Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan Warns of Global `Trade War'
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-19T10:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/south-african-finance-minister-says-currency-war-may-lead-to-trade-war-.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said the global economy could be heading toward a
“trade war” as countries compete to weaken their currencies.  “What we have right now is a serious danger of competitive
devaluations,” Gordhan said in a speech to the Consumer Goods
Council in Johannesburg today. “If we continue on this road, it
will result in a trade war. And then each country is going to
put up barriers. Free trade is something we’re likely to lose.”  Emerging markets have seen a flood of foreign capital
inflows into their economies this year as investors seek high-
yielding assets. That’s prompted Brazil, South Korea, Turkey,
Thailand and other emerging markets to take action to curb their
currencies in what Brazil’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
described on Sept. 27 as a “currency war.”  Group of 20 finance ministers meeting in South Korea next
week will need to “work out whether they have the will and
mandate and willingness to put national interest second to
global interest,” Gordhan said.  Gordhan made the same call for G-20 talks to help resolve
the currency crisis in two speeches last week. National Treasury
Director-General  Lesetja Kganyago  also said on Oct. 15 that the
government supports “multilateral” action on exchange rates.  Protectionism  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said on Oct. 11 that
countries shunning international cooperation and pursuing narrow
national interests risk starting a new round of protectionism
that would threaten the global economic recovery.  The rand has gained 37 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of 2009, the second-best performance of emerging
market currencies after Brazil’s real, which increased 38
percent. Brazil yesterday increased its tax on foreign portfolio
inflows to 6 percent from 4 percent in a bid to curb the real’s
appreciation.  South Africa’s central bank has been buying foreign
currency, in part through additional funds from the National
Treasury this year, to help limit the rand’s gains. Gross gold
and foreign currency  reserves  increased 2.2 percent to $44.1
billion in September from the previous month, according to the
bank’s data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  