-- Rand Depreciates to a Two-Week Low as Dollar Rebounds, China Raises Rates
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-10-19T14:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/south-african-rand-weakens-against-dollar-in-early-trading-in-johannesburg.html
The rand slid to a two-week low as a
drop in emerging-market stocks encouraged sales of developing-
nation assets and an increase in China’s interest rates sparked
concern the fastest-growing major economy will slow.  South Africa’s currency declined as much as 1.7 percent to
6.9889 per dollar, the weakest level since Oct. 5, before
trading 1.5 percent down at 6.9771 by 4:39 p.m. in Johannesburg,
from a previous close of 6.8724.  Emerging-market stocks fell after Apple Inc. forecast
lower-than-estimated profit while the dollar rebounded against
the euro after U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
the nation won’t allow a devaluation of its currency. China
unexpectedly increased its benchmark lending and deposit rates
for the first time since 2007 to quell the fastest rate of
inflation in 22 months.  “The primary intention of the hike in China is to curb
asset price bubbles but there could be a secondary impact on
growth,” said  Leon Myburgh , a fixed-income and currency
strategist for sub-Saharan Africa at Citigroup Inc. in
Johannesburg. “That seems to have hit commodity prices and
emerging market currencies.”  Prices of commodities including copper, oil, gold and
platinum fell after the People’s Bank of China raised the one-
year deposit rate to 2.5 percent from 2.25 percent, effective
tomorrow. The nation’s main lending rate will increase to 5.56
percent from 5.31 percent, it said on its website.  Against the euro the rand lost 0.2 percent to 9.6303 for a
second day of losses. South Africa’s currency weakened for a
fourth day against the pound, depreciating 0.2 percent to
10.9641.  Selling  “It’s not a very bullish day for emerging-market
currencies in general,” said  Gaelle Blanchard , an emerging-
market strategist at Societe Generale SA in London. “There’s a
bit of profit-taking happening, especially in currencies like
the rand where there have been strong moves.”  The rand has rallied more than 35 percent versus the dollar
since the start of last year as near-zero interest rates in
developed nations encouraged investors to borrow cheaply there
and invest in higher-yielding emerging markets. The prospect of
interest rates in the U.S. remaining lower for longer coupled
with a slide in the dollar has also boosted capital inflows to
emerging markets, causing their currencies to strengthen.  Government bonds fell in South Africa, with the benchmark
13.5 percent security due September 2015 losing 40 cents to
125.82 rand. The yield on the bond increased nine basis points
to 7.15 percent.  FRAs, or forward-rates agreements, showed money-market
investors reduced bets the  Reserve Bank  will lower its 6 percent
benchmark rate when it announces its next decision on Nov. 18.
The cost of  three-month contracts for cash in three months  rose
2.5 basis points to 5.715 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  