-- South Korea Plans to Boost Weapons Exports 16-Fold to $4 Billion by 2020
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-10-19T03:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/south-korea-plans-to-export-4-billion-of-weapons-annually-to-boost-jobs.html
South Korea is targeting a 16-fold
increase in annual weapons exports to $4 billion by 2020 to
create jobs and promote homegrown innovation.  The government is prepared to transfer some defense
technology to potential buyers to help lift arms exports, and
explore ways to finance purchases, the presidential office said
today in a statement. It will encourage mergers among small
weapons manufacturers to raise their competitiveness, it said.  The plan comes as  South Korea  seeks to increase spending on
research into new weapons after one of its warships was attacked
by North Korea in March. The government is awaiting
parliamentary approval for a budget plan for next year that
includes a 12.5 percent jump in expenditure on development of
weapons such as drones and attack helicopters.  President  Lee Myung Bak ’s administration plans to expand
total arms production to $10 billion from $6.6 billion by 2020
to boost defense jobs to 50,000, today’s statement said.  Achieving those targets could help South Korea become one
of the world’s top 10 weapons suppliers, according to  data  from
the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. The global
arms trade totaled $50.6 billion in 2007, according to the
Stockholm-based institute.  Expensive Jets  South Korea failed to sell T-50 trainer jets, made by  Korea
Aerospace Industries Co. , to the United Arab Emirates and
Singapore because the price tag was too high, today’s statement
said. The jet, costing about $22 million, is at least 10 percent
more expensive than rival products from Italy, it said. K-2
tanks, produced by  Hyundai Rotem Co. , a unit of South Korea’s
largest automaker, are also more pricey than American, British
and German products.  The government earmarked 31.3 trillion won ($28 billion)
for defense in 2011, or 10 percent of total planned spending,
with a third of the budget reserved for boosting defense
capabilities. South Korea plans to buy vessels for detecting
submarines and replace radar systems to improve its surveillance
capacity, the Ministry of National Defense said on Sept. 28.  A South Korean-led international panel blamed the March 26
sinking of the warship Cheonan on a torpedo fired from a North
Korean mini-submarine. Lee in May ordered the military to become
“stronger.”  South Korea remains technically at war with North Korea
since their 1950-53 conflict ended in a cease-fire, which was
never replaced by a peace treaty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  