-- South Korea's Unemployment Rate Climbs From Lowest Level in Three Months
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 2010-10-20T02:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/south-korea-s-unemployment-rate-climbs-from-lowest-level-in-three-months.html
South Korea’s unemployment rate
climbed in September from a three-month low as jobs in the
agricultural, retail and restaurant sectors declined.  The  jobless rate  rose to 3.7 percent from 3.4 percent in
August, Statistics Korea said in Gwacheon today, citing
seasonally adjusted figures. The rate hit a 10-year high of 4.8
percent in January.  The Bank of Korea left borrowing costs unchanged last week
for the third straight month as a stronger won dims the export
outlook while offering a damper for inflation. Increased
currency volatility is a risk to the economy, Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said two days ago, while Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said yesterday the nation is preparing more measures to
counter capital inflows.  “The jobless rate rose last month due to some temporary
factors and a cut in public jobs,” said Shin Byoung Gill, an
economist at Solomon Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul. The
central bank will focus more on the won, inflation and economic
conditions for interest-rate policy, and “China’s rate hike
yesterday will add more pressure on the BOK to follow the
move,” Shin said.  The won fell 0.2 percent to 1,132.45 per dollar as of 10:48
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while
the benchmark  Kospi  stock index advanced 0.2 percent to 1,860.21.  The currency slid 1 percent yesterday after Yoon said the
authorities will act when “herd behavior” causes sudden moves
in the exchange rate. The won has gained 6.5 percent over the
past three months.  Census Distortion  “Job market conditions are solid as the private sector is
still hiring more people,” Eun Sun Hyun, a director at the
statistics office, told reporters in Gwacheon today.
“September’s job data was a bit distorted by one-off factors
such as the census.”  Many of those who got jobs for the five-yearly census will
be marked as unemployed while waiting to start work next month,
Eun said. Some of them were previously classified as
economically non-active.  Asia’s fourth-largest economy is expected to add 300,000
jobs in October from a year ago, a statement released by the
finance ministry today showed.  The unadjusted  jobless rate  was 3.4 percent in September,
compared with 3.3 percent in August, today’s report showed. The
number of employed people increased by 249,000 to 24.05 million
last month from a year earlier.  Employment Programs  The government is winding down employment programs begun
following the global financial crisis after the recovery boosted
earnings and hiring plans at companies from Samsung Electronics
Co. to Hyundai Motor Co.  The number of people self-employed or working in the
public-service sector rose 0.6 percent from a year earlier,
while hiring in the manufacturing industry climbed 6.6 percent,
today’s report showed.  The number employed in construction increased 2.8 percent,
while jobs in the agricultural, fishery and forestry sectors
fell 3.2 percent. The number of people employed in the wholesale
and retail, and restaurants and hotels sectors fell 1.7 percent.  The economy expanded 7.6 percent in the first half from a
year earlier, the fastest pace in a decade. The Bank of Korea
raised borrowing costs by 0.25 percentage point from a record-
low 2 percent in July, the only increase this year. Kim has said
it will take some time to normalize the benchmark rate as the
bank must be sure of the world recovery.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 William Sim  in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  