-- South America Should Slow Domestic Demand to Avoid Overheating, IMF Says
-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2010-10-19T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/south-america-should-slow-domestic-demand-to-avoid-overheating-imf-says.html
South American governments face a
risk of accelerating inflation and worsening trade deficits if
rising domestic demand in the wake of the global financial
crisis isn’t tempered, the International Monetary Fund said.  Driven by exports such as soybeans and copper, Latin
American and Caribbean economies will grow 5.7 percent this
year, led by an 8.3 percent expansion in Peru and 7.5 percent
growth in both Argentina and Brazil, the IMF said in its
Regional Economic Outlook today. In May, the Washington-based
lender had estimated 4 percent growth in the region this year.  South American countries that have seen a surge in domestic
demand growth need to unwind stimulus programs they implemented
during the 2008-2009 financial crisis, when the region’s economy
contracted 1.7 percent, the IMF said. Inflationary pressures
could increase and current account deficits will widen if policy
makers fail to moderate demand growth, the lender said.  “For most of South America, it is all about the risks of
too much of a good thing, to avoid possible excesses of demand
and finance,”  Nicolas Eyzaguirre , director of the IMF’s Western
Hemisphere department, said in a statement released with the
report. “Demand needs to moderate in these countries or they
may risk experiencing overheating.”  Brazil, Latin America’s biggest economy, needs to implement
a “sharp” slowdown in public spending rates and quasi-fiscal
operations of public banks that constrain the effectiveness of
monetary policy, the IMF said. Countries with larger gaps
between potential and actual output, such as  Chile  and Colombia,
can proceed at a slower pace, the IMF said.  ‘One-Sided Bets’  “Generally, fiscal stimulus should be withdrawn ahead of
the (full) withdrawal of monetary stimulus, and the exchange
rate should be allowed to move to avoid creating one-sided
bets,” the report said in reference to the region.  The Colombian peso has climbed 13 percent this year through
yesterday, the most among major Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, followed by the Mexican peso at 5.5
percent and the Chilean peso at 5.4 percent.  Policy makers could increase reserve requirements on
deposits and limit the foreign exchange position of banks if
domestic demand doesn’t respond as anticipated to tighter
economic policies, the IMF said.  The economic recovery in Venezuela and Ecuador will be
weaker this year as investors have reduced exposure because of
“uncertain” business environments, the IMF said.  “This is seen most clearly in Venezuela, where output is
contracting again this year amid tighter exchange
restrictions,” the lender said.  Venezuelan Contraction  Venezuela’s economy will shrink 1.3 percent this year
before growing 0.5 percent in 2011, the IMF said. Inflation in
the country, a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, will be 33 percent this year, the highest in the
region, followed by Argentina at 11 percent. Brazil will have
5.2 percent inflation at the end of 2010 and Mexico 4.5 percent,
the IMF said.  Mexico’s economy, which contracted the most of any Latin
American country last year, will grow more than 5 percent in
2010 on an increase in domestic demand, increased automobile
exports to the U.S. and higher oil prices, the IMF said.  Weakening consumer confidence in Mexico’s largest trading
partner, the U.S., could threaten the recovery, the IMF said.
The government must focus on consolidating finances because of
declining oil revenue, the lender said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 Rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman@bloomberg.net . 