-- Sparx Plans Asian Hedge Fund of ‘Winners’ From Growth
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-10-19T06:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/sparx-plans-asian-stock-hedge-fund-to-invest-in-winners-of-asian-growth.html
Sparx Group Co., Asia’s second-
biggest hedge-fund manager, plans to start a long-short fund to
invest in shares of the region’s companies that stand to benefit
the most from the world’s fastest-growing economies.  The company aims to start the fund in the first quarter of
2011 and raise about $200 million to $300 million within a year
from inception, said Shuhei Abe, chief executive officer of the
Tokyo-based firm.  Abe is rebuilding Sparx into an Asian asset-management firm
focusing on profitable businesses after the global financial
crisis slashed assets more than half from a peak in 2006. Sparx
agreed to sell one of its  Hong Kong  businesses to  MCP Asset
Management Co.  in September to cut costs and closed some of its
U.S. and U.K. operations in 2009.  “We want to become an Asian firm and it’s going to be a
new challenge for us, like painting on a brand new canvas,”
said Abe in an interview yesterday. Sparx “will be looking for
Asia’s winners,” using Japanese companies as benchmarks for
competition in the region.  Separately, Sparx is set to win a mandate of about $200
million from an overseas investor by the end of this year to
allocate to Japanese companies offering clean technologies such
as smart grid and renewable energy, Abe said, declining to name
the investor as talks are private. The firm this year started
the Sparx Smart Grid Fund investing in Japanese companies
offering green technologies. The fund currently has 4 billion
yen ($49 million) in assets.  Sparx’s shares closed up 1.4 percent at 7,120 yen on the
Jasdaq exchange in Tokyo, paring an earlier decline of 0.3
percent.  Green Tech, Agriculture  Sparx has set up in Tokyo a research team of analysts and
fund managers with  Asia  experience from its remaining Hong Kong
and South Korean units to prepare for the long-short fund, Abe
said.  The hedge-fund manager will focus on companies that provide
green technologies, agriculture and food-related firms, Abe said,
declining to name specific companies.  Long-short hedge funds bet on rising and falling stock
prices. In a short sale, a trader sells borrowed stock in the
hope it can be bought back later at a cheaper price.  Asia’s developing economies will expand 9.4 percent in 2010,
compared with growth of 2.7 percent in advanced countries, the  International Monetary Fund  forecast on Oct. 6.  “Japan can’t grow by itself anymore,” said Abe at the
Hedge Funds Asia  Summit hosted  by Bloomberg Link in Hong Kong
today. “My challenge is where to find real growth” in Japan,
compared to other countries in Asia.  Shrinking Assets  Assets at Sparx, which was overtaken by Hong Kong-based  Value Partners Group Ltd . as Asia’s biggest hedge-fund manager
this year, stood at 589.2 billion yen as of September, compared
with a peak of 2 trillion yen in August 2006. The firm had a 707
million yen loss for the three months ended June 30, compared
with a loss of 641 million yen a year earlier, it said in August.  Sparx sold Sparx International (Hong Kong) Ltd. to Hong
Kong-based fund-of-hedge funds MCP last month. It will aim to
strengthen ties with Hong Kong-based PMA Capital Management Ltd.
and  South Korea ’s Cosmo Investment Management Co., its remaining
Asian units, to offer funds in the region, Abe said.  “Now is the time to truly unify the three firms to turn
ourselves into an Asian company,” Abe said yesterday. “In
doing so, we will be betting on the growth gaps that Asian
economies have with each of our expertise all gathered here in
Japan.”  To capture demand from investors interested in Asia, Sparx
also is planning a long-only fund that will invest in the
region’s stocks, Abe said.    Hedge funds  are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  