-- Spectrum Brands, Apple, Facebook, Google, Target: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-10-19T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/spectrum-brands-apple-facebook-google-target-intellectual-property.html
Mylan Inc. , the generic-drug maker
with an exclusive agreement to sell a copy of  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc ’s Paxil CR, lost its bid for a preliminary court order
blocking Apotex Inc. from also selling the antidepressant
medicine.  “We can confirm that Mylan’s application for a preliminary
injunction was denied, and we are pleased with the result,”
said Sarah Alspach, a spokeswoman for GlaxoSmithKline.  The case is Mylan Inc. v. SmithKline Beecham Corp., 3:10-
cv-04809-JAP-LHG, U.S. District Court for the District of New
Jersey (Trenton).  Three Enigma Patents Survive U.K. Challenge by Biogene  Biogene ’s challenge to three patents licensed to Enigma
Diagnostics Ltd. were rejected by the U.K.’s Intellectual
Property Office, the Oxford, U.K.-based company said in a
 statement .  The three patents in dispute were licensed exclusively by
the U.K. Ministry of Defense’s Defense Science and Technology
Laboratory. They cover a technology used in an automated
polymerase chain reaction system for rapid molecular testing at
the point of care.  Galderma Sues Actavis to Halt Generic Acne Treatment  Galderma SA, a Swiss maker of dermatological products, sued
Actavis, a unit of Iceland’s Novator, for infringing two U.S.
patents covering the acne treatment  Differin .  The suit, filed yesterday in federal court in Wilmington,
Delaware, accuses Novator’s Actavis unit of infringing patents
7,579,377, issued in August 2009; and 7,737,181, which was
issued in June 2010. The two patents cover the use of a
formulation of the chemical  adapalene  against acne and other
dermatological disorders.  Actavis is accused of infringing the patents by seeking to
produce a generic version of the adapalene gel produced by
Galderma and its U.S.-based unit. The Swiss pharmaceutical
company said it will be “substantially and irreparably harmed”
if Actavis is allowed to produce the generic product.  Galderma asked the court to bar the approval of a generic
version of its product until after its patents expire.  The Swiss company is represented by  Maryellen Noreika  and
 Jack B. Blumenfeld  of Wilmington’s  Morris, Nichols, Arsht &
Tunnell LLP  of Wilmington.  The case is Galderma Laboratories LP v. Actavis Mid
Atlantic LLC, 1:10-cv-00887-UNA, U.s. District Court, District
of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  MarkMonitor Acuires DtecNet, Will Go After ‘The Bad Guys’  MarkMonitor, a closely held U.K.-based brand-protection
company, has acquired the  DtecNet  piracy-tracking service, the
U.K.’s Guardian newspaper  reported .  Six-year-old DtecNet, which worked with the Irish Music
Association to find 15,000 instances of alleged infringement in
a recent file-sharing case in Ireland, operates in the U.S. and
Europe and will be part of MarkMonitor’s proposed expansion into
Asia, according to the Guardian.  MarkMonitor Chief Executive Officer Irfan Salim told the
Guardian the acquisition of DtecNet will enable his company to
“make a big dent for the bad guys to stop doing bad things.”  UK IP Office, MPAA, RIAA Targeted in Anti-Copyright Web Attack  The U.K.’s Intellectual Property Office website is a target
of a denial-of-service attack by the anti-copyright group  4Chan ,
which calls its series of attacks “ Operation Payback .”  According to the Operation Payback website, the attack on
the IP office began at 6 a.m. London time on Oct. 16. When
attempts were made to access the IP office site yesterday, the
site was only intermittently unavailable.  Other targets of the attacks in October, according to the
Operation Payback  list , included the  Motion Picture Association
of America , Spain’s  Sociedad General de Autores y Editores , the
 Recording Industry Association of America , and  ACS:Law ,  Gallant
Macmillan  and  Davenport Lyons  law firms, all of which have been
active in copyright enforcement in the U.K.  The Operation Payback site also has a page on which users
can vote for future targets for denial-of-service attacks. Sites
operated France’s  Hadopi  copyright agency,  Apple Inc. ,  Time
Warner Inc. ’s Warner Brothers unit, and the  American Society of
Composers. Authors and Publishers  are among those presently
under consideration,  according to  Operation Payback.  A  statement  on the Operation website promised that those
who attempt to enforce copyrights “will be held accountable
before the people, and you will be punished by them. We will not
stop. We will not forget, We will prevail. We are anonymous,”
the group said in its statement.  UK’s Copyright Tribunal to Move to Ministry of Justice System  The U.K.’s Intellectual Property Office said in a  statement 
the Copyright Tribunal will be merged into the Ministry of
Justice’s  Tribunals Service .  The Tribunals Service was established in 2006 to provide a
unified administration for the tribunals system. While placing
the Copyright Tribunal within this system will reduce the cost,
the “necessary technical expertise” will be retained, and
users of the system “should see little or no disruption to its
operations, the IP Office said in a statement.  A timetable for the move hasn’t been set, the office said.  Malaysia’s Proposed Copyright-Infringement Fines Meet Opposition  A proposal to fine buyers of pirated DVDs and CDs five
times the price of legitimate versions is receiving mounting
opposition in Malaysia, that country’s Star newspaper  reported .  The fine would be enacted as part of proposed amendments to
Malaysia’s Copyright Act, according to the Star.  Lon Lian Hang, head of the Johor Baru Chinese Chamber of
Commerce told the Star the law targets the wrong people and that
the government should instead “detect and destroy the factories
making such DVDs.”  He said that if the government seriously enforces the law,
it will end up “going into most houses in the country,”
according to the Star.  Japanese IP Court Confirms Video Copyright Infringement Verdict  Just Online Co., the Tokyo-based operator of the video-
sharing website “TV Break,” was ordered by Japan’s
Intellectual Property High Court to pay a 100 million yen ($1.2
million) copyright infringement verdict, the Music Industry News
Network  reported .  The underlying suit was brought by the  Japanese Society for
Rights of Authors, Composers and Publishers , which had objected
to TV Break’s transmission without authorization of video
containing its members’ content, the news network reported  Of the approximately 60 video-sharing websites in Japan, 15
have already taken licenses to the repertoire represented by
JASRAC, according to the news network.  The royalties Just Online must pay break down to about 12
yen per view, the news network reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Innovative Beverage Sues Over Mark for ‘Calming’ Soft Drink  Innovative Beverage Group Inc. , a distributor of energy
drinks and New Age beverages, sued a unit of Coca-Cola Bottling
Co. Consolidated for trademark infringement.  Houston-based IBG produces and distributes “ Drank ,” a
beverage containing valerian root, rose hips and melatonin that
is “designed to calm the consumer’s body and mind,” according
to court papers. The company used the trademark “extreme
relaxation” on its packaging and promotion of the product.  Beverages and Beyond Brands Inc., a unit of Charlotte,
North Carolina-based  Coca-Cola Bottling Co. Consolidated , sells
“ Simmer ,” a beverage that competes with IBG’s Drank, according
to the complaint filed Oct. 16 in federal court in Houston. Like
Drank, cans of Simmer also bear the phrase “extreme
relaxation.”  Its company website uses the phrase, too, IBG
says.  IBG claims the public is confused and that it’s likely
“distributors, customers and potential customers have made
purchasing and other decisions with the mistaken belief that the
defendant’s product” is associated with IBG and with “Drank.”  It asked the court to bar Simmer’s producers and
distributors from using the “extreme relaxation” mark and for
an order for the seizure and destruction of all allegedly
infringing products and promotional material. It’s also seeking
awards of the profits attributable to the sale of products
containing the “extreme relaxation” mark without permission
and money damages.  IBG asked that the damages or the awarded profits be
tripled, and also for awards of attorney fees and litigation
costs.  The Texas-based company is represented by  Timothy M.
McCloskey  of  Carrigan, McCloskey & Roberson LLP  of Houston and
Leon David Bass of Columbus, Ohio.  The case is Innovative Beverage Group Inc. v. Beverages and
Beyond Brands Inc., 4:10-cv-03853, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston).  For more trademark news, click here.  University Technology Transfer  Cellectis Takes Licenses to Patented Japanese Stem Cell Line  Cellectis , a genome engineering company based in
Romainville, France, has taken two licenses to a patent
portfolio stemming from the work of Professor Shinya Yamanaka of
the  University of Kyoto ’s Center for IPS Cell Research and
Application, according to a company  statement .  The non-exclusive licenses are for induced pluripotent stem
cells and will be used to develop and commercialize research
tools and treatments for disease or the prevention of disease.  The company says these particular lines of cells are “not
associated with the ethical issues attendant to embryonic
cells.”  The line will also be used by Cellectis’  Ectycell  unit,
which focuses on industrial applications for stem cells of this
kind.  Yamanak a, who is both a medical doctor and researcher, has
also held an appointment at the University of California at
Berkeley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 