-- Sri Lankan Central Bank Leaves Interest Rates Unchanged for Second Month
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-10-19T02:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/sri-lankan-central-bank-leaves-interest-rates-unchanged-for-second-month.html
Sri Lanka’s central bank kept its
benchmark interest rates unchanged after reducing borrowing
costs in July and August to support economic growth.  The Central Bank of Sri Lanka left the  reverse repurchase
rate  at 9 percent, the lowest level since November 2004, and the
 repurchase rate  at 7.25 percent, according to a statement on the
Colombo-based bank’s  website  today.  Governor  Ajith Nivard Cabraal  has slashed the reverse
repurchase rate by three-quarters of a percentage point since
July, even as counterparts from India to Malaysia and Thailand
have raised borrowing costs this year to counter price pressures
or the risk of asset bubbles. Inflation is not a “major
threat” in the next few months, Cabraal said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television today.  “The central bank is just pausing monetary easing,”
 Sarath Rajapakse , director of research at Capital Trust
Securities Pvt. in Colombo, said before the decision. “It will
need to cut rates again to sustain the growth rate.”  The Reserve Bank of India has raised interest rates five
times this year while Malaysia’s central bank left the benchmark
overnight policy rate unchanged at 2.75 percent last month after
three consecutive increases. Thailand’s central bank raised its
benchmark rate in August for a second month.  Cultivation on land recovered from the separatist
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam has helped slow consumer-price
gains in Sri Lanka to about half the average rate of the five
years through 2009, according to the central bank.  Inflation Outlook  Consumer prices  in the capital, Colombo, rose 5.8 percent
in September from a year earlier. Cabraal said last month that
consumer price gains won’t reach double digits.  Sri Lanka’s $42 billion economy may  grow  as much as 8
percent in 2010, the central bank said Sept. 21, compared with
an earlier forecast for a 7 percent expansion.  Faster economic growth and the end of Sri Lanka’s 26-year
civil war are encouraging investments.  Aitken Spence Plc , Sri Lanka’s biggest operator of resorts,
said Sept. 30 it will build a hotel with Six Senses Resorts &
Spas in an investment worth as much as $40 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anusha Ondaatjie  in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  