-- Sri Lanka to Relax Foreign-Exchange Controls in a Few Weeks, Cabraal Says
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2010-10-19T04:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/sri-lanka-to-relax-foreign-exchange-controls-in-a-few-weeks-cabraal-says.html
Sri Lanka plans to ease foreign-
exchange rules in the “next few weeks,” the nation’s central
bank governor said, after keeping interest rates unchanged today
to support economic expansion.  “In the next few weeks, we are going to be relaxing some
of the exchange controls that we have, which means there will be
basis for outside growth as well,”  Ajith Nivard Cabraal  said in
a telephone interview with Bloomberg Television from Colombo. He
didn’t elaborate.  Sri Lanka’s move contrasts with countries from South Korea
to Brazil which are seeking to restrain capital inflows to
prevent further gains in their currencies from hurting exports.
Reducing curbs will enable foreign investors to buy corporate
debt in Sri Lanka, Cabraal said in January. It will also help
local residents to buy shares of foreign companies and permit
Sri Lankan companies to list abroad, he said.  “The lifting of capital controls are all part of the
growth strategy,” said  Bimanee Meepagala , a Colombo-based
analyst at NDB Aviva Wealth Management Ltd, the nation’s biggest
non-state fund. “Depending on the inflation outlook, they’ll
cut or hold rates low for as long as possible.”  The Sri Lankan rupee, which has gained 2.2 percent against
the dollar this year, climbed to a 21-month high of 111.62 on
Oct. 5 after the island nation raised $1 billion in its third
global dollar offering and the International Monetary Fund lent
about $213 million. The central bank said Oct. 7 foreign-
exchange reserves are at a record $7 billion.  Monitor Inflows  Sri Lanka will watch inflows “carefully” as the rupee has
a “tendency” to appreciate because the dollar has weakened,
Cabraal said.  Brazil stepped up efforts to curb gains in the real by
raising inflow taxes and said it may be forced to take
additional measures as Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  called for
an end to the worldwide “currency war.” South Korea is
preparing further steps to counter capital inflows arising from
low interest rates overseas, Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun 
said at a parliamentary audit in Seoul today.  Sri Lanka is relaxing foreign-exchange rules to help spur
economic growth after the end of a 26-year civil war last year.  Cabraal left the  reverse repurchase rate  at 9 percent, the
lowest level since November 2004, and the  repurchase rate  at
7.25 percent, according to a statement on the Colombo-based
bank’s  website  today, after lowering them in July and August.  Lower Rates  Cabraal has slashed the reverse repurchase rate by three-
quarters of a percentage point since July, even as counterparts
from India to Malaysia and Thailand raised borrowing costs this
year to counter price pressures or the risk of asset bubbles.  Inflation isn’t a “major threat” in the next few months,
Cabraal said today.  Cultivation on land recovered from the separatist
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam has boosted farm production and
helped slow consumer-price gains in Sri Lanka to about half the
average rate of the five years through 2009, according to the
central bank.  Consumer prices  in the capital, Colombo, rose 5.8 percent
in September from a year earlier.  By comparison, the risk of inflation prompted the Reserve
Bank of India to raise rates five times this year. Malaysia’s
central bank left the benchmark overnight policy rate unchanged
at 2.75 percent last month after three consecutive increases
while Thailand’s central bank raised its benchmark rate in
August for a second month.  Sri Lanka’s $42 billion economy may  grow  as much as 8
percent in 2010, the central bank said Sept. 21, compared with
an earlier forecast for a 7 percent expansion.  Prospects of faster growth and the end of the civil war are
encouraging foreign investments.  Aitken Spence Plc , Sri Lanka’s biggest operator of resorts,
said Sept. 30 it will build a hotel with Six Senses Resorts &
Spas in an investment worth as much as $40 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anusha Ondaatjie  in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  