-- Standard Chartered Sees Kenyan Bank Lending Rates Falling 3%, Etemesi Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2010-10-19T10:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/standard-chartered-sees-kenyan-bank-lending-rates-falling-3-etemesi-says.html
Kenyan banks will probably cut
lending rates by between two and three percentage points over
the next 18 months as the cost of securing collateral falls and
loan losses drop, Standard Chartered Plc’s  local unit  said.  “Interest rates will be in a downward trajectory for the
next 12 to 18 months across the industry,”  Richard Etemesi ,
chief executive officer of Standard Chartered’s Kenyan unit,
said in an interview in the capital, Nairobi, today.  The Central Bank of Kenya has slashed the benchmark lending
rate 2.5 percentage points to a record low of 6 percent since
the start of last year in bid to spur economic growth. Over the
same period, Kenyan commercial banks have kept their average
lending rate little changed at about 14.18 percent in August,
according  central bank  figures.  The bank, Kenya’s second-biggest by market value after
 Barclays Bank of Kenya Ltd. , lends at rates of as low as 6.5
percent to multinational companies and as high as 14 percent for
individual borrowers, he said.  Net non-performing loans at Kenyan banks fell to 2 percent
of total loans in August from 2.9 percent in January, the
Central Bank of Kenya said on Oct. 1.  Borrowers spend between 2 percent and 6 percent of the
value of their loans in posting collateral, according to a study
by research group Financial Sector Deepening Trust. The
government is simplifying procedures to reduce the cost,  Joseph Kinyua , Kenyan Treasury permanent secretary, said in March.  The bank’s first-half profit advanced 22 percent to 2.8
billion shillings ($34.8 million) as loan income increased, it
said on Aug. 13.  Standard Chartered in Kenya is likely to record the “same
level of momentum” into the second half of the financial year
ending in December as mortgage-lending increases and loans to
small and mid-sized businesses pick up, said Etemesi.  “We will see significant growth in all of our businesses
and the balance sheet,” Etemesi said. Third-quarter earnings
are expected to be announced on or about Oct. 28, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 Smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 