-- Standard Chartered to Boost Small, Medium Enterprises Services
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-19T12:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/standard-chartered-to-boost-small-medium-company-services-heeding-china.html
Standard Chartered Plc  plans to
boost revenue from its small- and medium-sized enterprise
division twice as fast as competitors and generate
“multibillion dollars” from the business within three years.  The U.K. bank aims to add 1,200 relationship managers for
the unit over the same time period, and double its global market
share in providing services to such clients, Som Subroto, head
of Standard Chartered’s SME banking unit, said in an interview
in Shanghai today.  “It is a big ambition and it is a significant
investment,” Subroto said. The business will contribute about a
quarter of revenue at London-based Standard Chartered’s consumer
banking unit in three years, he said. “In light of the growing
importance of SMEs in economies in Asia, this is an excellent
time for us to focus even more on the SME sector.”  Asia’s economy may be as large as that of the U.S. and the
European Union combined by 2015, according to International
Monetary Fund estimates.  Standard Chartered, which classifies businesses with annual
revenue of less than $25 million as small- and mid-sized
companies, has market share ranging from 2 percent to 10 percent
for providing services to such firms in different countries,
Subroto said.  More than half of Standard Chartered’s new relationship
managers will be in China, where the revenue from lending to
small and mid-sized clients may grow by 30 percent to 40 percent
annually, said Betty Ku, head of the bank’s SME operations in
North East Asia. It currently has 650 managers for the business
in China, and will add 180 people next year, said Ku.  Lending in China  China’s government is calling on banks to boost lending to
the 42 million small- and mid-sized companies that drove the
nation’s economic boom in the past decade and provided 75
percent of urban jobs. Lenders advanced 1.9 trillion yuan ($286
billion) of new loans to these firms in the first half, raising
outstanding credit by 19.2 percent by June 30 from a year
earlier, according to the  central bank .  Lending to small businesses, which typically have sales of
less than 100 million yuan and employ fewer than 100 people,
will grow by 35 percent annually in China from 2010 to 2014,
compared with overall credit growth of 12 percent, according to
BNP Paribas SA estimates.  Standard Chartered, which invested $500 million in
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. ’s initial public offering in
June, aims to set up a joint venture with the Chinese lender to
meet the financial needs of small companies locally and overseas,
Subroto said. The talks are in “early stages,” he said.  -- Luo Jun . Editors:  Chitra Somayaji ,  Hugh Chow   To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-3036 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  