-- Stockland Reiterates Growth Forecast, Says Sales May Slow as Housing Cools
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-10-19T06:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/stockland-group-says-on-track-to-achieve-fy11-guidance-of-7-eps-growth.html
Stockland  Group, Australia’s biggest
diversified property company, is on track to meet its earnings
growth forecast for the 2011 financial year, as a record first
quarter moderates an expected slowdown during the rest of the
year.  Stockland Managing Director  Matthew Quinn  today reiterated
the company’s 7 percent earnings-per-share growth forecast for
the year ending June 30, 2011, and said expansion in the first
half is set to be higher than a year earlier.  Still, slower housing market growth, wet weather and
planning delays are expected to moderate the company’s sales for
the remainder of the financial year, he said in an address at
the company’s annual shareholder meeting.  “Our strategy to focus on affordable, value for money
product is allowing us to outperform the broader market,” Quinn
said in a speech filed to the Australian stock exchange.
“Having said that, we do expect broader residential market
conditions to continue to soften and our sales results are not
expected to continue throughout FY11 at the record levels of the
first quarter, particularly if mortgage rates increase
further.”  The  shares  fell 0.5 percent to end the day at A$3.88 in
Sydney.  An index of Australia’s building industry shrank for a
fourth straight month in September, falling 2.4 points to 40.8,
according to a survey by the Australian Industry Group and
Housing Industry Association released on Oct. 7.  Stockland returned to profit in the year ended June 30,
reporting net income of A$478.4 million ($471.2 million), on
increased sales in its residential communities business.  The company’s residential and retirement operations’
contributions to earnings are likely to be higher in the second
half than the first, due to the production lag from weather and
local council planning delays, Quinn said.  Stockland, based in Sydney, owns 78.5 percent of  Aevum
Ltd. , according to Bloomberg  data,  after its A$320 million
takeover bid for the retirement village operator won approval on
Sept. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  