-- Swiss Franc Tamed by Hildebrand Rather Than Currency Purchases
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2010-10-20T13:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/swiss-franc-tamed-by-hildebrand-forecasts-instead-of-currency-purchases.html
The Swiss central bank’s inflation
forecasts may be doing more to rein in the Swiss currency than
171 billion francs ($176 billion) of foreign-exchange purchases.  The franc has dropped 2.3 percent against the euro since
Sept. 16, when the Swiss National Bank cut its inflation outlook
through 2013. The weaker price outlook also prompted economists
at banks from UBS AG to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to push back
their predictions for  interest-rate  increases from the SNB.  “The latest inflation forecast is justified as the
previous was too high,” said  Michael Saunders , chief economist
for Western Europe at Citigroup Inc. in London. “It has the
helpful effect of reducing pressure on the Swiss franc. In
effect, it works like a verbal intervention.”  The weakening franc reduces pressure on the SNB to
intervene in currency markets after its foreign-currency
reserves quadrupled in the 15 months through June, sparking a
$15 billion loss in the first half of 2010. Policy makers led by
President  Philipp Hildebrand  had tried to slow the currency’s 15
percent rally in the past two years to protect the country’s
export-led recovery and counter  deflation risks .  The franc’s decline also gives the SNB a reprieve as
tensions about global exchange-rate fluctuations spark
speculation about what Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
calls a “currency war.” The Bank of Japan last month sold yen
for the first time in six years to limit gains, while U.S.
authorities have accused China of limiting the yuan’s advance.  New Outlook  “The new inflation outlook plays into the SNB’s hands,”
said  You-Na Park , a currency analyst at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. There might be a “tactical element. The central bank
avoids the dilemma of having to raise rates while at the same
time keeping a lid on the franc.”  The SNB’s cut to its three-year  inflation outlook  last
month was the biggest in its history, according to UBS. The bank
lowered its 2011 forecast to 0.3 percent from 1 percent in June
and the 2012 projection to 1.2 percent from 2.2 percent. Based
on unchanged interest rates, inflation won’t breach the SNB’s 2
percent ceiling until the second quarter of 2013, a year later
than previously projected.  The franc was little changed at 1.3345 per euro at 3:21
p.m. in Zurich, compared with 1.3053 the day before the
forecasts were published. It has shed almost 4 percent since
Sept. 8, when it reached a record 1.2766 against the euro.  While the SNB’s new inflation outlook hasn’t stopped the
franc climbing to a record against the dollar, the euro’s
exchange rate matters more to policy makers because 55 percent
of Swiss exports go to the currency bloc. Just 10 percent of
exports are sold to the U.S.  Purchases  “With their new inflation outlook, the SNB has achieved
more than with all the interventions before,” said  David Marmet , an economist at Zuercher Kantonalbank in Zurich. “The
SNB spent huge amounts on currency purchases and it didn’t keep
the franc from appreciating.”  The franc has risen about 4 percent against the dollar in
the past month, strengthening with other major currencies on
speculation that the Federal Reserve will expand asset
purchases.  The weaker Swiss inflation outlook prompted Goldman Sachs
to push back its forecast for the first rate increase to June
2011 from March 2011. Credit Suisse Group AG now predicts the
SNB to keep its benchmark interest rate at 0.25 percent until
June instead of December and UBS on Oct. 15 revised its rate
forecast for the second time in a month to March from December.  G-20 Meeting  “We find it increasingly difficult to look for a monetary
tightening at a time when many other economies conclude that
they need to expand their balance sheets,” UBS economist  Reto Huenerwadel  in Zurich said. “The SNB’s current inflation
forecast does not make the case for higher rates anytime soon.”  Easing concern about Europe’s debt crisis has also helped
take pressure off the franc as investors shift out of currencies
traditionally considered safe havens in times of turmoil.  Hildebrand heads to Seoul this weekend to meet finance
officials from the Group of 20 nations after they failed to
narrow differences over currencies at a gathering in Washington
this month. China was accused of undervaluing the yuan, while
low U.S. interest rates were blamed by emerging markets for
flooding them with capital. Brazil took aim at both the U.S. and
China.  For the SNB, any further intervention in currency markets
may come “at a cost,” Hildebrand says. The SNB’s  foreign-
currency holdings  swelled to the equivalent of 227 billion
francs in June from 55.8 billion in March 2009. Euro holdings
account for more than two thirds of reserves and the added
exposure makes the central bank vulnerable to currency swings.  Inflation forecasts were a “nice trick” to ward off franc
pressure, said  Sebastian Wanke , an economist at Dekabank in
Frankfurt, who expects the SNB to keep borrowing costs on hold
through 2011. “They might well intervene again within the next
six to nine months, but I don’t expect them to do anything
anytime soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Klaus Wille  in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  