-- SMI Is Little Changed in Zurich; UBS, Credit Suisse Rise, Valiant Fall
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-10-19T15:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/swiss-stocks-rise-as-ubs-gains-benchmark-smi-heads-for-four-month-high.html
Swiss stocks were little changed as
a rally in financial shares offset an unexpected increase in
Chinese interest rates.  UBS AG and  Credit Suisse Group AG  followed European banking
shares higher. Micronas Semiconductor Holding AG jumped 13
percent after reporting positive third-quarter earnings. Valiant
Holding AG tumbled 8.2 percent as Vontobel Holding AG downgraded
the regional retail bank.  The  Swiss Market Index  was little changed at 6,471.96 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The gauge has rallied 8.9 percent
since this year’s low on July 5 amid optimism that the global
economy will avoid another recession and speculation that the
Federal Reserve will announce further measure to stimulate
economic growth at its November meeting. The broader  Swiss
Performance Index  slipped less than 0.1 percent today.  “China’s move to raise its one-year lending and deposit
rates means they are trying to decrease the money supply, a move
that could stem growth in companies depending on the country for
future earnings,” said  Jens Finkbeiner , who oversees about $210
million at F+M Financial GmbH in Frankfurt. “Investors are
still waiting for the beginning of November when the Federal
Reserve Bank is expected to announce its second round of
quantitative easing.”  China’s central bank raised one-year lending and deposit
rates by 25 basis points, according to a statement posted to the
People’s Bank of China’s website today. The increases, the first
since 2007, are effective from tomorrow.  UBS, Credit Suisse  UBS and Credit Suisse rose 1.7 percent to 17.58 Swiss
francs and 1.1 percent to 43.45 francs, respectively. European
banking shares advanced as much as 2 percent today, the best
performance among 19 industry groups in the benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, as Bank of America Corp. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. reported earnings excluding one-time items that
topped analyst estimates.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said banks will
have until 2015 to fully implement rules on how much cash and
liquid securities they must hold to gird against a funding
shortage in a crisis. The committee also said it would review
the rules to make sure they aren’t too onerous.  Micronas surged 13 percent to 8.14 francs, the biggest jump
since March. The company in a restructuring to concentrate on
the automotive sector reported third-quarter sales of 48.5
million francs ($49.8 million) and earnings before interest and
taxes of 10.5 million francs.  Valiant slumped 8.2 percent to 176.2 francs, the biggest
drop since at least 1997, as Vontobel cut the shares to
“reduce” from “hold.”  Dufry Group  rose 3.4 percent to 107.5 francs, its highest
price since June 2008. The operator of duty-free shops was rated
a new “overweight” at Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julie Cruz  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 