-- U.K. Delays Decision on Trident Deterrent as It Cuts Defense Spending 8%
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2010-10-19T18:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/u-k-delays-decision-on-trident-deterrent-as-it-cuts-defense-spending-8-.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
the U.K. will delay renewing the Trident submarine-based
nuclear-missile system until after the next election as he
announced an 8 percent cut in defense spending over four years.  “The decision to start construction of the new submarines
need not now be taken until 2016,” Cameron told lawmakers in
the House of Commons today, outlining the results of the first
defense review since 1998. “We can extend the life of the
Vanguard-class submarines so the first replacement submarine
isn’t needed until 2028.”  Cameron said Britain’s armed forces will be reduced by
17,000 personnel, while 25,000 civilian staff will be axed in
the defense ministry. He also announced the scrapping of an
order for  BAE Systems Plc ’s Nimrod reconnaissance aircraft and
said fewer, cheaper planes are needed for new aircraft carriers.  The defense review is intended both to help narrow the 
record budget deficit  and redefine military needs. The U.S.
expressed concern last week about the effect of the cuts, though
Cameron said today the U.K. will still meet the NATO target for
defense spending of 2 percent of gross domestic product. The
government will announce expenditure cuts averaging 25 percent
for other departments tomorrow.  ‘Protect Our Security’  “This is not simply a cost-saving exercise to get to grips
with the biggest budget deficit in postwar history, it is about
taking the right decisions to protect our national security in
the years ahead,” Cameron told lawmakers. “Our national
security depends on our economic strength and vice versa.”  The number of nuclear warheads per submarine at sea will
be cut to 40 from 48 and the total stockpile will be reduced to
“fewer than 120” from “less than 160,” Cameron said, still
allowing the U.K. to have continuous at-sea deterrence.  The decision to delay Trident will save around 1.2 billion
pounds ($1.9 billion) and defer 2 billion pounds of spending
over the next ten years.  The prime minister said the government will cancel the
purchase of nine  BAE Nimrod MRA4  planes, citing it as an example
of poor procurement policy.  “It has cost the taxpayer over 3 billion pounds, the
number of aircraft procured has fallen from 21 to 9, the cost
per aircraft has increased by over 200 percent and it’s over
eight years late,” Cameron told lawmakers.  Tanks Cut  The withdrawal of Nimrod, alongside other planes, will mean
 RAF Kinloss , a base in Scotland, will no longer be needed, while
two other bases may be used in future by the army. The
government will reduce the number of Challenger II tanks by 40
percent and heavy artillery by 35 percent.  The total number of navy-operated frigates and destroyers
will be cut to 19 from 23, though the government will complete
the purchase of six Type 45 destroyers from London-based BAE.
The navy will also get new Astute-class submarines built by the
same company.  Cameron said the U.K. will press ahead with the
construction of two aircraft carriers, though the launch of the
first will be deferred to 2020 from 2016 to allow for the
fitting of so-called catapult and arrester gear. This will allow
the use of carrier-variant  Lockheed Martin Corp. ’s F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter planes, which will be cheaper than the short-
takeoff and vertical-landing version previously proposed.  The government left open the possibility that one of the
carriers may be sold after completion. Only one will be at sea
for the foreseeable future.  Helicopter Plans  One of the carriers will be designed to operate with 12 F-
35s. It will also carry eight Apache helicopters built by Boeing
Co., as well as either 12 Merlin helicopters, made by
Finmeccanica SpA’s AgustaWestland unit, or 12 Boeing-made
Chinooks. The U.K. will buy an additional 12 Chinooks.  The review document said either HMS Ocean, the navy’s
helicopter carrier, or HMS Illustrious, an aircraft carrier,
will be scrapped after a “brief study” to determine which will
be the best helicopter base before the F-35s come into service.
Another carrier, HMS Ark Royal will be decommissioned now, along
with the Harrier jump jets the F-35s will replace. That will
leave Britain with only helicopters on carriers for a decade.  The new carriers, HMS Queen Elizabeth and HMS Prince of
Wales, are being built by a group including BAE, Babcock
International Group Plc and  Thales SA  at a cost of 4.9 billion
pounds.  “The U.K. put itself in the second division with this
carrier decision,” said  Howard Wheeldon , senior strategist at
BCG Partners in London. Carriers act as a deterrent as well as
merely a means of carrying warplanes, he said.  Manpower Reductions  The army will be reduced to 95,500 personnel by 2015, a cut
of 7,000. Britain will withdraw half its personnel from bases in
Germany by 2015 and the remainder by 2020, Cameron said. The
Royal Air Force will lose 5,000 personnel, as will the navy.
That will leave the air force with a strength of 33,000 and the
navy with 30,000 by 2015.  Unions and the opposition Labour Party attacked the
government’s plans.  “If 25,000 job losses in the Ministry of Defence is what
is happening in a so-called protected department, the remaining
cuts to be announced in the spending review will be truly
devastating,”  Public and Commercial Services Union  General
Secretary  Mark Serwotka  said in an e-mailed statement. “We have
serious concerns for the damaging effect these cuts will have.”  Labour leader  Ed Miliband , responding to Cameron in
Parliament, said the review was a “profound missed
opportunity.”  “It’s a spending review dressed up as a defense review,”
Miliband said. “This review has been driven only by short-term
considerations.”  BAE said in an e-mailed statement it will study the review
and will make a further announcement on Oct. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 