-- Foreclosure Crisis Triggers Debate on Role of Mortgage Registry
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-10-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/u-s-electronic-mortgage-registry-comes-under-fire-in-foreclosure-crisis.html
On July 1, a federal judge took away
Robert Bellistri’s house in Arnold, Missouri.  Bellistri, who bought the house as an investment after it
was seized for non-payment of taxes, failed to notify Mortgage
Electronic Registration Systems Inc. of his purchase, the judge
said. A state appeals court last year had ruled otherwise,
finding Bellistri didn’t need to tell MERS, a company that lets
banks electronically register their sales of home loans so they
can avoid trudging down to the county land-records office.  The case highlights a debate raging in courts on the role
MERS has, if any, in home foreclosures. How it’s resolved will
determine whether MERS’s involvement produced a defective
process and clouded millions of property titles. A definitive
ruling against MERS might slow any future bundling of mortgages
into securities since the company played a role in that process.  “MERS is the central device by which the banks have tried
to opt out of the legal system and the real-property record
system,” U.S. Representative  Alan Grayson  of Florida said in an
interview. “They have taken it upon themselves, with the
supposed consent of the borrowers, to violate a system of
property record-keeping that we’ve had going back centuries.”  Attorneys general of all 50 states opened a joint
investigation into home foreclosures Oct. 13, saying they will
seek an immediate halt to any improper practices at banks and
mortgage companies. The announcement came after several banks,
including  Bank of America Corp. , halted foreclosures in either
all states or the 23 with judicial supervision of foreclosures.  More Rounds  MERS, whose parent company is Merscorp Inc., bills itself
as a provider of “support services to the mortgage industry,”
specifically tracking the servicing rights and ownership
interests in mortgage loans on its electronic registry.  Merscorp, based in Reston, Virginia, was created by
industry leaders in 1995 to improve servicing after county
offices couldn’t deal with the flood of mortgage assignments,
Karmela Lejarde, a spokeswoman for MERS, said in an interview.  “That bottleneck got mitigated,” she said. The company’s
tagline is “Process Loans, Not Paperwork.”  According to its Website, MERS is owned by the largest
lenders in the country including Bank of America,  Citigroup
Inc. , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Wells Fargo & Co. , in addition to
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which own or guarantee more than
half of the $11 trillion U.S. mortgage market.  The company’s net operating revenue last year was $32
million, she said.  Nominee  Under the MERS system, a borrower who takes out a loan
agrees to allow the company to act as the lender’s nominee, or
agent, on the mortgage or deed of trust securing the property.
That means MERS holds the lien, according to the company.  MERS continues to be the mortgagee of record as long as the
note promising the borrower’s repayment is owned by a MERS
member. If it’s sold to an outside entity, the assignment is
recorded with the appropriate county.  About 60 percent of newly originated loans are on the MERS
system, Lejarde said. Since its inception in 1995, it has
carried 66 million loans and currently has between 23 million
and 25 million active loans, she said.  “The problem with MERS is it takes a public function and
puts it into a private entity that doesn’t seem to have any
clear accountability,” said  Alan White , a law professor at
 Valparaiso University  in Indiana. “And it does it on legal
grounds that seem tenuous.”  Securitization  MERS played a key role in the bundling of mortgages into
securities that reached a frenzy before the economic decline of
2008, critics including Grayson of Florida said. It allowed
banks to sell and resell home loans faster, easier and cheaper,
he said.  “MERS was a facilitator of securitization,” said Grayson,
a Democratic member of the House Financial Services Committee.  MERS disagrees. It was created to provide clarity and
transparency and not “to enable faster securitization,” it
said in an Oct. 9 statement.  “MERS probably served a necessary purpose given the volume
of securitization that went on,”  Talcott Franklin , a lawyer in
Dallas who represents investors in mortgage-backed securities,
said in a phone interview. “But for MERS, do you know how
overwhelmed the county recorder offices would have been by the
volume of assignments that had to go through there?”  Fees  A big selling point for the company is its cost savings. It
charges $6.95 for every loan registered, Lejarde said. With an
average cost of about $40 for filing a mortgage assignment with
local counties, MERS has saved the industry about $2.4 billion,
Merscorp Chief Executive Officer R.K. Arnold said in a September
2009 deposition in an Alabama suit.  The company is accused in two whistleblower suits filed
this year of cheating California and Nevada counties out of
millions of dollars in recording fees. In 2006, New York State’s
highest court told one county it had to record MERS mortgages
against its wishes. The county said MERS cost it $1 million a
year.  Several courts have expressed confusion that MERS positions
itself as both mortgage owner and representative of a mortgage
owner. That stems from its use of mortgage language that
typically states it is both the mortgagee and “acting solely as
nominee for Lender and Lender’s successors and assigns.”  Agent and Principal  “It is axiomatic the same entity cannot simultaneously be
both an agent and a principal with respect to the same property
right,”  Christopher Peterson , a law professor at the University
of Utah in Salt Lake City, wrote in a law-review article about
MERS this year.  Peterson wrote that courts should look to the actual
economics of the transaction, which some have done, finding that
MERS has no standing in proceedings to seize delinquent
borrowers’ homes.  In a March 2009 ruling, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Linda B. Riegle  in Las Vegas decided MERS wasn’t a true beneficiary under
a trust deed.  “If it doesn’t walk like a duck, talk like a duck and
quack like a duck, then it’s not a duck,” she wrote.  Consumer advocates and bankruptcy attorneys who criticize
MERS say it has no right to foreclose when it doesn’t hold both
the promissory note and the security instrument -- the mortgage
or trust deed. The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 1872 that a
mortgage has no separate existence from the note, Peterson
wrote.  Legal Right  “It appears that on a widespread and probably pervasive
basis, they did not take the steps necessary to own the note,”
Grayson said in a Sept. 30  video  he recorded about MERS, “which
means that in 45 out of the 50 states they lack the legal right
to foreclose.”  MERS says it has the right to foreclose because the borrower
grants the company legal title to the mortgage and it forecloses
as agent for the promissory-note holder. “Courts around the
country have repeatedly upheld and recognized this right,” MERS
said in an Oct. 4 e-mailed statement.  Since March 2009, supreme courts in Arkansas, Kansas and
Maine have found that MERS had no standing in foreclosure
proceedings under their states’ laws. The company lends no money
and suffers no injury, the panels said.  MERS’s relationship to the bank that owned a loan in
question was “more akin to that of a straw man than to a party
possessing all the rights given a buyer,” the Kansas Supreme
Court wrote. “What stake in the outcome of an independent
action for foreclosure could MERS have?”  Minnesota Victory  MERS won a high-court victory last year when the Minnesota
Supreme Court declared the company doesn’t have to record the
sale of a promissory note, as opposed to a mortgage, at the
county office before a foreclosure can begin.  Citing a 2004 state law it called “the MERS statute,” the
Minnesota court said “the legislature appears to have given
approval to MERS’s operating system for purposes of recording.”
A MERS lawyer helped draft the law, Arnold, the company CEO,
said in the deposition last year.  In response to the Kansas decision, the state legislature
there changed court-procedure rules this year to require a
“nominee of record” to be made part of such lawsuits.  Eventually high courts in states with judicial oversight of
foreclosures will have to review MERS’s role, Patrick A.
Randolph, a professor at the University of Missouri-Kansas City
specializing in real-estate law, said in an interview.  “It’s a question of state law,” Randolph said. “The
problem is simply confusion about a word the courts are not used
to seeing in this context -- the word ‘nominee.’”  Lien Holder  Under its contracts, MERS is the mortgage owner’s agent and
has the right to foreclose, said Randolph, who is also
affiliated with a St. Louis law firm, Husch Blackwell LLP, which
works for MERS, though he doesn’t handle those cases he said.  Complicating matters, MERS doesn’t handle foreclosures
itself. Home-loan owners, including trustees of mortgage-backed
entities, do so in its name. MERS Inc., which holds the liens,
has no employees, and MERSCORP, the parent, has only about 50,
Lejarde said.  MERS has also come under fire for allowing members to
appoint their employees as MERS certifying officers -- as
assistant secretaries or vice presidents of MERS -- to sign
documents, including assignments. MERS has deputized
“thousands” of such certifying officers, Arnold said.  Vexed  New York Supreme Court Justice Arthur M. Schack, a trial-
level judge in Brooklyn, is particularly vexed by the practice
and has tossed foreclosure actions in part because of it.  He has pointed out what he sees as a potentially serious
conflict: The same person, as an “employee” of MERS -- with
duties owed to the entity selling a mortgage -- assigns that
mortgage to a bank at presumably market value, and then the same
person, as the bank’s employee, swears an affidavit in the
foreclosure case.  Schack has demanded that two-hat-wearing signers provide
him with their employment histories.  Lejarde, the MERS spokeswoman, said the certifying officers
are employees of the lenders, not MERS, and must follow both
companies’ policies.  MERS’s certifying officers represent for the company’s
critics what they see as its role in muddying mortgage titles,
to the point borrowers don’t know who owns their loans -- a
charge MERS strongly denies.  Previous Lender  In his case, Bellistri had notified BNC Mortgage Inc., the
previous homeowner’s lender, that he bought the house in Arnold,
about 18 miles southwest of St. Louis. He didn’t notify MERS,
which was listed as BNC’s nominee on the trust deed.  By that time, BNC had conveyed the note to Deutsche Bank
AG, as trustee of a mortgage-backed investment vehicle, though
Bellistri had no way of knowing that. MERS continued to hold
“legal title to the beneficial interests in the deed of trust
on behalf of Deutsche Bank,” according to the federal judge’s
ruling.  In the proceeding Bellistri initiated, a Missouri state
court and the Missouri Court of Appeals in St. Louis named him
the property’s rightful owner. Deutsche Bank had hired Ocwen
Financial Corp. as servicer. MERS assigned the deed to Ocwen and
said the note went with it.  The appeals court disagreed, saying MERS had no right to
grant Ocwen the note because records showed it was still owned
by BNC. So Ocwen lacked standing to contest Bellistri’s deed, it
said. Under Missouri law, the note and deed go together, and
therefore Bellistri keeps the house, the appeals court said.  Federal Suit  MERS filed a federal suit at U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Missouri, where judge  Charles A. Shaw  ruled
the other way. Shaw said that Bellistri failed to properly
notify MERS of its redemption rights and that the state-court
decision threatened MERS’s “overall business model -- at least
in Missouri.”  Lawsuits elsewhere attack that business model. In Delaware
federal court, homeowners accuse MERS of forcing them to pay
inflated fees related to their foreclosures.  MERS and its members have been sued this year for
racketeering in New York, Florida and Kentucky federal courts,
accused of conspiring to falsely foreclose on loans and “to
undermine and eventually eviscerate long-standing principles of
real-property law.”  Dozens of lawsuits claiming MERS itself is a fraud have
been consolidated for pretrial proceedings in federal court in
Phoenix. The homeowners haven’t fared well there. In September
2009, U.S. District Judge  James Teilborg  threw out an earlier
case with similar accusations. On Sept. 30, he tossed six
proposed class-action, or group, lawsuits.  Defaulting Owners  Teilborg found the defaulting homeowners failed to
sufficiently allege that MERS and its members conspired to
commit fraud because it’s not a true beneficiary under the trust
deed. They also fail to explain how MERS, as a “’sham’
beneficiary,” diminishes their need to pay back the money they
borrowed, the judge said.  “At most, plaintiffs find the MERS system to be
disagreeable and inconvenient to them as consumers,” Teilborg
wrote.  The Bellistri case is Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems Inc. v. Bellistri, 09-cv-731, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Missouri (St. Louis) and Bellistri v. Ocwen
Loan Servicing LLC, ED91369, Missouri Court of Appeals, Eastern
District (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 