-- U.S. to Ask OPEC Members to Push Iran for `Constructive' Middle East Role
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-10-19T22:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/u-s-to-ask-opec-members-to-push-iran-for-constructive-middle-east-role.html
The State Department said it may ask
OPEC members to encourage Iran to take a more “constructive”
role in the Middle East when Iran’s oil minister becomes
president of the oil-exporters group in 2011.  A spokeswoman for the  Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries  announced Oct. 14 that  Masoud Mir-Kazemi  will lead the
group next year. He was named alternate president of OPEC in
March.  The U.S. has led international efforts to sanction Iran for
its insistence on enriching uranium, a step that could lead to
development of a nuclear weapon. The U.S. and its allies believe
Iran is developing the capability to make nuclear bombs, while
the country’s leaders say they are pursuing the technology for
civilian uses, including medical research.  “We would look for the other members of OPEC to remind
Iran that it could play a more constructive role in the
region,” said  State Department  acting spokesman  Mark Toner .
“Certainly, that’s probably going to be a topic of our
discussions bilaterally with individual members of OPEC.”  Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  visited Lebanon last
week, traveling to the country’s border with Israel, raising
tensions there. The U.S. charges that Iran sponsors terrorist
groups, including Hamas in the Gaza Strip and Hezbollah in
Lebanon.  Amos Gilad , an official at Israel’s Defense Ministry, told
Israel Radio during Ahmadinejad’s visit to the border that
“Iran wants to turn Lebanon into a branch of Iran,” and said
the visit “proves Lebanon’s orientation toward Iran, especially
southern Lebanon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  