-- State Tax Revenue in U.S. May Increase Third Straight Quarter, Study Shows
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-10-19T15:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/u-s-state-revenue-may-rise-a-third-straight-quarter-on-taxes-study-shows.html
U.S. state revenue is poised to
increase for a third-straight quarter as tax increases help
governments recover from a 15-month slide in collections,
according to a study released today.  Preliminary data  suggest that tax collections may have
risen in the three months through September, according to the
Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government in Albany. In 42
states, revenue was up an overall 2.8 percent in July and August
from a year earlier, driven by gains in income-tax collections.  The data provide further evidence that state finances are
stabilizing in the aftermath of the longest recession since
World War II. The economic rout pushed down tax collections for
five quarters beginning at the end of 2008, a record slide from
which states have yet to fully recover.  “After record revenue declines in calendar 2009, and with
spending trend lines still pointing upward, the fiscal
conditions of the states remain quite fragile,” researchers
 Lucy Dadayan  and  Donald Boyd  said in a statement.  Overall state tax revenue rose $4.6 billion, or 2.3
percent, to $204.9 billion in the second quarter, when 34 states
reported higher collections, according to the report. Those
gains were the result of tax increases in states including
California, New York and Massachusetts. Those changes added $4.9
billion to revenue during the three months.  Still Lower  Even with three quarters of gains, state revenue was still
15 percent lower in the second quarter than during the same
period in 2008, according to the report. For the year ending in
June, which corresponds to the budget years in most states, tax
collections dropped by $19 billion, or 2.7 percent, from the
prior year and were down $84 billion from 2008.  States are likely to take several years to recover the lost
funds, given that tax collections tend to lag behind the overall
economy, the researchers wrote.  “While some economic indicators signal some improvement in
overall economic conditions, fiscal recovery for the states
typically lags a national economic turnaround and is likely to
take several years,” Dadayan and Boyd wrote. “Many states will
be forced to make more budget cuts -- and to consider further
increases in taxes and charges -- in the coming year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 