-- Huaneng Power Quarterly Profit Declines 48% to $168 Million on Fuel Costs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-19T12:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/huaneng-power-quarterly-profit-declines-48-to-168-million-on-fuel-costs.html
Huaneng Power International Inc. , a
unit of China’s biggest electricity producer, posted a 48
percent decline in third-quarter profit as fuel costs rose.  Net income fell to 1.12 billion yuan ($168 million), or
0.09 yuan a share, from 2.17 billion yuan, or 0.18 yuan, a year
earlier based on domestic accounting standards, Huaneng said in
a statement to the  Shanghai stock exchange  today. That beats the
median estimate of 1.06 billion yuan in a Bloomberg survey of
three analysts.  Benchmark coal prices in China gained 28 percent in the
July to September quarter from a year earlier, according to data
from the China Coal Transport and Distribution Association.
Power demand growth may slow to about 5 percent in the second
half from the first amid curbs on energy-intensive and polluting
industries, the China Electricity Council said on July 26.  “The fourth quarter will be challenging given that
industrial constraints may remain and coal prices may be subject
to seasonal increases,”  Dave Dai , a Hong-Kong based analyst for
Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co, said today. “Unless the
on-grid tariff is increased, the power producers may find it
difficult to generate quarter-on-quarter growth in the last
quarter.”  Huaneng Power’s operational costs increased in the third
quarter “due to higher fuel prices and an expansion in the
company’s business scale and electricity generation,” it said
in the statement today.  Still, the Chinese economy may grow four times faster than
the U.S. in 2010, the United Nations said in February, boosting
demand for electricity. Third-quarter  sales  increased 33 percent
to 27.9 billion yuan from a year earlier, Huaneng Power said.  China may raise on-grid tariffs in Hebei, Henan, Shandong,
Shanxi, Shaanxi, Anhui, Qinghai, Gansu and Hainan provinces by
as much as 5 percent in October,  Daisy Zhang , a Shanghai-based
analyst at BNP Paribas, said in a report last month.  Huaneng Power’s shares fell 0.6 percent to HK$4.90 in Hong
Kong trading today, before the earnings announcement. The
benchmark  Hang Seng index  rose 1.3 percent.  Its parent China Huaneng Group produces more than 10
percent of the country’s electricity, according to the company’s
website. The Beijing-based group operates 154 power plants in 27
Chinese provinces and in Singapore, with a combined installed
capacity of 104.38 gigawatts, or about 12 percent of China’s
total.  -Wang Ying in Beijing, with assistance from Baizhen Chua and
Dingmin Zhang. Editors: Ryan Woo, Hugh Chow  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ying Wang  in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 