-- UN Returning to Somalia in Effort to Stop Terrorist Takeover of Government
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-10-19T17:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/un-returning-to-somalia-in-effort-to-stop-terrorist-takeover-of-government.html
The  United Nations  is set to
establish a political presence in Somalia for the first time in
17 years, aimed at creating a new constitution and government,
the world body’s top envoy to the African nation said.  Final preparations are being made to base four workers in
the capital Mogadishu and five each in the semi-autonomous
provinces of Puntland and Somaliland,  Augustine Mahiga  said in
an interview. The political operatives will shift operations
late this month from Nairobi, Kenya, where the conflict in
Somalia has confined UN political offices until now.  “The political office has been conspicuously absent from
Somalia,” Mahiga, a former UN ambassador from Tanzania, said in
an interview in New York. “It is important to have
international staff in there to interact with the Transitional
Federal Government and with local elders and religious
leaders.”  Mahiga said the UN will focus on securing agreement on a
constitution and arrangements to form a government to succeed
the transitional government, whose mandate is due to expire in
August 2011. The UN needs to build ministries in areas of
defense, treasury, health, education and information, he said.  “There are 39 ministers, but they are ministers in name
only,” Mahiga said. “There are no ministries.”  Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central administration
since the ousting of former dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991.
Most of southern and central Somalia is under the control of
insurgents led by the Islamic terrorist group al-Shabaab, which
has pledged loyalty to al-Qaeda.  Security Council  Mahiga is in New York for an Oct. 21 meeting of the UN
 Security Council , where he said the African Union will seek
backing to deploy additional troops in Somalia. The AU, which
has 8,000 there now, wants to send 4,000 more this year and
another 8,000 in 2011, Mahiga said.  Uganda has promised to provide all of the reinforcements,
which will be sent mainly to the central and southern areas.  “This was always the plan,”  Elmi Duale , Somalia’s
ambassador to the UN, said in an interview, referring to the UN
move into his nation. “The major issue was security. They said
they cannot go there. Now this will be overcome.”  The reinforcements should enable the UN to eventually send
in most of the 50 international workers now based in Nairobi,
Mahiga said. UN agencies including the World Food Program and UN
Children’s Fund have been working in Somalia, though confined to
peaceful areas and with national staff.  Local Outreach  “Wherever there is going to be reasonable security, we
want our people there, working with local leaders on the draft
constitution,” Mahiga said. “We want to reach out to as many
people beyond Mogadishu as we can. Our main target will be the
central and southern area.”  The transitional government, which controls only portions
of Mogadishu, is just emerging from a political crisis following
the resignation of Prime Minister  Omar Abdirashid Ali Sharmarke .
Mahiga said it may take a month for  Mohamed Abdullahi , appointed
prime minister last week by President  Sheikh Sharif Sheik Ahmed ,
to form a new government.  “We cannot afford another crisis,” he said. “All of the
tasks we have before us are more or less in limbo, waiting for
another government to be in place. The last thing we want is
continuation of the status quo.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  