-- Hungary Needs Budget Steps to Close Gap, Fiscal Council Chief Kopits Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-19T15:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/hungary-needs-budget-steps-to-close-gap-fiscal-council-chief-kopits-says.html
Hungary’s planned cuts in the
personal and corporate income taxes will raise the  budget gap 
from 2012 and won’t be offset by a special industry tax, faster
growth or a wider tax base, the  Fiscal Council  said.  The tax cuts will increase the budget gap by 200 billion
forint ($1 billion) in 2012 and as much as 700 billion forint
from 2013, Fiscal Council Chairman  Gyorgy Kopits  said in a
speech to lawmakers today.  “We can’t count on economic growth or changes in the
attitude of taxpayers to erase this gap,” Kopits said, according
to a transcript e-mailed to Bloomberg News. “Until plans emerge
that deal with this, markets will stay uncertain, which was
evidenced in recent months by the rise in the risk premium of
government bonds of medium- to long-term maturity.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will introduce a flat 16
percent personal income tax next year after cutting the
corporate tax to 10 percent for smaller companies to create jobs
and boost growth after the worst recession in 18 years. The
cabinet wants to cover the shortfall from a special levy on the
banking, energy, retail and telecommunication industries as well
as cuts in spending on state bureaucracy.  Tax Effects  The special taxes, approved late yesterday by lawmakers,
will raise 343 billion forint ($1.7 billion) annually for three
years beginning in 2010. The highest tax bracket is for
telecommunication companies with sales of more than 5 billion
forint, including  Deutsche Telekom AG ’s  Magyar Telekom Nyrt. ,
which will pay 6.5 percent of sales.  The tax measures may boost  growth  by 0.2 percentage points
in 2011 and 2012 and raise the  inflation rate  by 0.2 and 0.3
percentage points, respectively, according to the Fiscal
Council. The price index may climb 0.5 percentage points in
2013, Kopits said.  Orban, speaking in parliament yesterday, said the country
needs to accelerate  annual growth  to between 4 percent and 6
percent, overhaul health care and education, and cut costs in
unprofitable public transportation companies to cover the
revenue shortfall once the special taxes expire. Hungary’s
economy contracted 6.3 percent last year and the central bank
forecasts growth of 0.9 percent for 2010.  The independent Fiscal Council, which oversees budget
planning and execution, criticized Orban’s five-month-old
government for failing to submit studies on the impact of budget
proposals as required by law. Lawmakers from Orban’s ruling
Fidesz party submitted the industry tax bill over the weekend
and parliament approved it yesterday after last-minute changes.  “Economic players can’t be expected to make rational
decisions in these circumstances beyond generally trying to
defend themselves against the changing nature of Hungarian laws,
but this may come with serious sacrifices for growth,” Kopits
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  