-- Hungary Approves Special Tax on Energy, Telecoms, Retail, Allows Deduction
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2010-10-19T08:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/hungary-approves-special-tax-on-energy-telecoms-retail-allows-deduction.html
Hungarian lawmakers approved a
special tax on the energy, telecommunication and retail
industries, allowing companies to deduct the levy from their
income tax.  Lawmakers voted 294 to 44 with 12 abstentions late
yesterday in favor of the measure, according to the Parliament’s
website. The tax, together with a previously announced bank
levy, will raise 343 billion forint ($1.7 billion) annually for
three years beginning in 2010.  The government plans to use the funds to meet  budget
deficit  targets, fund tax cuts on corporate and personal incomes
and tax breaks for families with children. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said yesterday that the levy is necessary to avoid raising
taxes on individuals after five years of budget cuts.  The tax for energy, telecommunication and retail companies
will be based on 2010 sales, rather than last year’s revenue as
originally planned.  The highest tax bracket is for telecommunication companies
with sales of more than 5 billion forint, including Deutsche
Telekom AG’s Magyar Telekom Nyrt., which will pay 6.5 percent of
sales. The company expects to pay “about half” of the annual 61
billion forint the government expects from the industry, Chief
Executive Officer  Christopher Mattheisen  said on Oct. 15.  Retail, Energy Estimates  Retail companies with sales of more than 100 billion forint
will pay 2.5 percent. Tax levels for these two industries differ
depending on sales. Of the 30 billion forint the government
expects from retailers,  Tesco Plc  may have to pay 12.1 billion
forint, Spar Magyarorszag Kft. 6.1 billion forint and Groupe
Auchan SA 3.4 billion forint, the MTI news service said, citing
the Hungarian Trade Association.  All energy companies will pay 1.05 percent of sales
regardless of their size.  Mol Nyrt. , Hungary’s largest refiner,
expects to pay between 15 billion forint and 20 billion forint,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Zsolt Hernadi  said on
Inforadio late yesterday. E.ON AG’s Hungarian unit may pay about
15 billion forint, spokesman Istvan Kutas said, the newspaper
Nepszabadsag reported today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zoltan Simon  in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  