-- UnitedHealth Says Profit May Decline in 2011 as Costs Increase
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-10-19T14:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/unitedhealth-profit-jumps-as-medical-costs-drop-full-year-forecast-raised.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc ., the biggest
U.S. insurer by sales, said 2011 profit may decline because of
rising medical costs and the U.S. health-care overhaul. The
forecast sent the company’s shares down the most in two months.  Earnings may fall as UnitedHealth meets a new regulation
requiring insurers to spend more money on patient care, Chief
Executive Officer  Stephen Hemsley  said on a  conference call 
today. UnitedHealth shares dropped as much as 3.7 percent.  A jobless rate over 9 percent has kept Americans away from
the doctor this year, enabling Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
UnitedHealth to report third-quarter  earnings  today that beat
analyst estimates and to raise its 2010  profit forecast .
Physician visits may increase next year, Hemsley said today.  “We anticipate some level of year-over-year reduction,”
Hemsley said on the conference call. “But we simply can’t
quantify the extent until regulations are released and can be
thoroughly analyzed and quantified at the individual market
level.”  The insurer, the first managed-care company to report
earnings this quarter, sank 97 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $35.28
at 10:50 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares earlier fell to as low as $34.92. Before today, the stock
had climbed 9.6 percent since March 30, when President  Barack Obama  signed legislation designed to extend insurance coverage
to 32 million Americans.  Reform Uncertainty  The shares’ drop is “the same trend that’s happened every
quarter this year,” said  Sarah James , a Wedbush Securities Inc.
analyst in Los Angeles, in a telephone interview. “they have
strong results, but it’s just taken over by the uncertainty
surrounding health-care reform.”  Third-quarter  net income  increased 23 percent to $1.28
billion, or $1.14 a share, the company said in a statement
today. The  profit  topped the 85-cent average  estimate  of 15
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company spent 80.1 percent of premiums it collected on
customers’ medical care, down from 82 percent a year earlier.
This year’s percentage is just above the 80 percent required by
the health-care law. Starting next year, the legislation will
compel insurers to give customers rebates if spending falls
below that level.  The Obama administration and state insurance commissioners
are still drafting regulations to implement the spending rules,
and  UnitedHealth  can’t make a more precise forecast for 2011
before the rule is finished, Hemlsey said on the call. He said
he’d like to have more information by the insurer’s investor
conference in New York on Nov. 30.  The company expects earnings to grow after 2011, he said.  Costs Restrained  Hemsley in July said costs were being restrained by
 unemployment  and a mild flu season. UnitedHealth also gained
750,000 health-plan clients from a year earlier, with revenue
from U.S.-backed Medicare Advantage policies for the elderly
climbing 11 percent and sales of Medicaid plans to the poor up
29 percent.  The company boosted its earnings  forecast  for a third time
this year, predicting profit of $3.85 to $3.95 a share for 2010
and sales of $94 billion.  Analysts  had expected an average of
$3.62 a share for the year, and $92.9 billion in revenue.  Third-quarter revenue climbed 9 percent to $23.7 billion,
also beating analyst predictions. A year-earlier UnitedHealth
reported net income of $1.04 billion, or 89 cents a share.  Medical Bills  UnitedHealth saved $230 million as medical bills for
previous periods ended up lower than expected, according to the
statement. The windfall reflected trends across the industry,
and today’s numbers “bode well for the sector,” said  Thomas A. Carroll , a Stifel Nicolaus analyst in Baltimore, in a note to
clients.  Enrollment in medical plans rose to 32.7 million, from 32
million a year earlier, with the Medicare and Medicaid increases
offsetting a decline in plans sold to private employers and
individuals, the company said.  Revenue  from health services rose 14 percent to $6.2
billion, led by increases at units that provide prescription
benefits, consulting to doctors and hospitals and information
technology. Hemsley said in July that UnitedHealth wants to
expand in those areas as the health-care law squeezes profit
margins in the benefits business.  UnitedHealth spent $1.9 billion on acquisitions in the
services sector during the third quarter, the statement said.
The company announced deals for four medical-software companies
in the quarter and for Executive Health Resources Inc., a
consultant that advises hospitals on clinical care and billing.  “Deductibles and copays today are almost four times as big
as they were five years ago,” said  Dave Shove , a BMO Capital
Markets analyst in New York, in a telephone interview before the
announcement. “When you hit the pocketbook more and times are
harder, it makes people hesitate a bit” before seeking care.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  