-- University of Chicago's Endowment Rises 19%, Beating Yale, Harvard Returns
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2010-10-19T22:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/university-of-chicago-investments-gain-19-topping-yale-harvard-returns.html
The University of Chicago, the
school where President  Barack Obama  taught constitutional law,
said investments gained 19 percent in the past year, beating
Yale University’s 8.9 percent gain and Harvard’s 11 percent
increase.  The endowment was valued at $5.54 billion as of June 30,
the school said in an e-mailed statement. The fund stood at
$5.09 billion the previous year, Steve Kloehn, a spokesman for
the university, said in a telephone interview.  The fund was buoyed by “a broad recovery of bond and
equity markets, strategic changes in the university’s approach
to investments and strong performance by the university’s
investment managers,” the school said in the statement.
Investments plunged 22 percent in the prior year after the
September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
crippled financial markets.  “We beat our benchmarks in all the asset classes,”  Mark Schmid , the endowment’s chief investment officer, said in an
interview. “We did very well in U.S. equities, emerging
markets. We did really well in hedge funds and private equity.”  The endowment had an average annual return of 5.5 percent
over the past decade, trailing the 7 percent gain of Harvard, in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, and the 8.9 percent increase of Yale,
in New Haven, Connecticut. In June 2009, it named  Schmid  as its
investment chief. He previously oversaw $65 billion in
retirement assets for Boeing Co.  Review  Schmid hired eight people in the past year, adding risk
management and strategy teams and expanding the endowment to 29
employees. He didn’t make “wholesale directional changes,” he
said.  “Our strategy is really going to be tailored to the needs
of the University of Chicago, as opposed to trying to compete on
an investment-return basis with the other large endowments,”
Schmid said. The endowment is in the middle of reviewing its
strategy and risk management to help determine its direction
over the next five years, he said.  Institutional funds, including public and corporate
pensions, endowments and foundations, returned a median of 13
percent in the past year, according to Wilshire Associates, a
consulting firm in Santa Monica, California. The firm’s Trust
Universe Comparison Service tracks 1,300 funds and $3 trillion
in assets. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 12 percent in
the year ended June 30.  Yale, whose fund was valued at $16.7 billion as of June 30,
reported the worst performance among Ivy League schools.
Columbia University, in New York, had the best performance among
the eight Northeastern private schools, as its $6.5 billion
endowment jumped 17 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gillian Wee  in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  