-- UralChem May Revisit London IPO Plan, Sell $525 Million of Bonds, CEO Says
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-10-19T06:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/uralchem-may-revisit-london-ipo-plan-sell-525-million-of-bonds-ceo-says.html
UralChem Holding Plc, Russia’s
second-largest producer of nitrogen-based fertilizers, may sell
about $525 million of bonds to repay debt and revisit a plan for
an initial public offering in London scrapped in April.  “If we see the situation in financial markets improve and
investors aren’t nervous about external factors anymore, we can
go ahead with another IPO attempt,” Chief Executive Officer
 Dmitry Osipov  said in an interview in Moscow. “It’s only one of
the options. We also have everything ready for a bond sale.”  UralChem canceled its proposed IPO on April 29, saying
volatile markets failed to give it a “fair value.” The Moscow-
based company, which had $1.34 billion of debt as of June 30,
may consider selling bonds that can be converted into dollars
after their sale, Osipov said.  UralChem, which increased its share of domestic sales to 40
percent in the first half from about 30 percent a year earlier,
today said its net loss in the period narrowed to $13 million
from $56 million. Revenue grew 40 percent to $663 million on
higher fertilizer prices as rising food consumption and
shrinking arable land in developing countries increased demand.  The net loss resulted from exchange rates and interest
costs, Osipov said, while earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization gained 90 percent to $137 million.  UralChem plans to invest at least $300 million to boost
fertilizer output 15 percent by 2014, Osipov said yesterday.
Production may climb to 5.5 million metric tons from the 4.8
million tons planned for this year.  The company expects to report a “significant drop” in
Russian sales for the third quarter as farmers cut winter-grain
sowing after the country’s worst drought in 50 years, Osipov
said. Producers are meeting government requests to hold down
prices, which are about 10 percent lower than export prices
minus transport costs, he said, adding that domestic prices may
move in line with inflation next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 