-- Turkcell Plans Cheaper Smartphone to Boost Mobile Internet Use
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2010-10-19T13:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/turkcell-plans-cheaper-smartphone-to-boost-mobile-internet-use.html
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS ,
Turkey’s biggest mobile-phone company, plans to introduce a
cheaper smartphone under its own brand to increase sales of
wireless Internet service.  The handset may sell for about half the average smartphone
price in Turkey of 359 euros ($500) at the end of June, Chief
Corporate Affairs Officer  Koray Ozturkler  said yesterday in an
interview in New York.  Turkcell aims to encourage more spending on third-
generation data services such as high-speed Internet access as
rivals including  Vodafone Group Plc  cut prices to win a greater
share of voice calls. Data represented about 19 percent of
Turkcell’s record 2.24 billion liras ($1.58 billion) in  sales 
last quarter, with data revenue in Turkey up about 80 percent
from a year earlier, Ozturkler said.  “Our aim is to increase 3G-enabled handsets,” said
Ozturkler, who was in New York for an investor conference
hosted by Auerbach Grayson & Co. “We’re looking at alliances
with manufacturers to bring in better models, Turkcell-branded
phones that have Internet applications and enable data usage.”  Ozturkler declined to say which manufacturer the company
would use for its phones, the first of which it is “close to
launching,” he said.  ‘Sweeteners’  “This is clearly a move to offer sweeteners to increase
the use of mobile Internet,” said  Cemal Demirtas , an analyst
at Istanbul-based Oyak Securities. “But I don’t expect a major
impact on the sales figures.”  Turkcell will have 3G-network coverage for about 90
percent of the country’s population by the end of this year,
Ozturkler said. The Istanbul-based company spent 2.7 billion
liras in 2009 on capital investment and is spending an
additional 2 billion this year, partly for improvements to the
wireless network.  Turkcell was  unchanged  at 10.8 liras as of 2:25 p.m. in
Istanbul Stock Exchange trading.  National economic growth and the company’s expanding
fiber-optic network unit, Superonline, will help increase
profit margins and boost earnings next year, Ozturkler said.
The government expects the economy to grow 4.5 percent in 2011
compared with its forecast of 6.8 percent growth this year.  Growth Forecast  Turkcell expects “much faster” growth in 2011 than this
year, Chief Executive Officer  Sureyya Ciliv  said in an
interview Oct. 4. The company’s growth forecast for this year
remains between 1 percent and 5 percent, he said.  An extraordinary shareholders meeting tomorrow may result
in changes among the board members, Ozturkler said. The largest
single shareholder is  TeliaSonera AB  with an effective 37
percent stake, followed by Cukurova Holding AS with 14 percent
and Russia’s Altimo with 13 percent, according to the Istanbul
Stock Exchange company  database , known as KAP.  The company’s profit  margin , leaving out interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, was 32 percent in the second
quarter, nearly even with the first quarter. The  margin  was 33
percent in 2009 and 37 percent in 2008, according to company
data.  Turkcell had about  34 million subscribers  at the end of
June. About 7 million customers a month were accessing the
Internet at that time, and the company had 6 million registered
3G subscribers, Ozturkler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net .  Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul 
3909 or  eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at  