-- Hurricane Threat to U.S. Gulf Oil, Natural Gas Output Fades to Almost Zero
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-10-19T15:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/hurricane-threat-to-u-s-gulf-oil-natural-gas-output-fades-to-almost-zero.html
The hurricane threat to oil and gas
development areas in the Gulf of Mexico is fading and may almost
be over for the year, meteorologists said.  With the onset of the Northern Hemisphere’s autumn, weather
patterns change, shielding the western Gulf of Mexico from
storms forming in the Atlantic. More than 30 percent of U.S. oil
and 10 percent of gas production are in the Gulf, most in the
area from Mississippi to Texas.  “Essentially, the 2010 hurricane season is over for the
Gulf energy production region,” said  Jim Rouiller , senior
energy meteorologist at commercial forecaster Planalytics Inc.
in Berwyn, Pennsylvania. While storms may yet emerge,
“virtually no threat remains for a damage-producing hurricane
to hit the densely populated rig, platform and refinery
facilities.”  Sixteen storms with winds of at least 39 miles (63
kilometers) per hour have formed in the Atlantic so far this
year, more than the 11 considered average by the National
Hurricane Center. None has made a direct strike on U.S. oil and
gas fields. The site of the BP Plc oil spill has been spared as
well.  “What has been a surprise is that we haven’t had a major
hurricane hit the U.S., period,” said  Andy Lipow , president of
Lipow Oil Associates LLP in Houston.  Inventories Up  As the hurricane season winds down to its final six weeks,
petroleum inventories are above where they were last year, Lipow
said. Crude oil is up about 6.7 percent from last year, gasoline
is up 4 percent and distillates have risen about 1 percent, he
said.  Lipow agrees the Gulf may have dodged this year’s threat.
So far, only Tropical Storm Bonnie, which had top winds of 40
mph, has made a direct strike on the U.S. Bonnie rode across
southern Florida before dissipating in the Gulf of Mexico.  Hurricane Alex and Tropical Storm Hermine struck just south
of the Texas border in Mexico. Both storms caused major flooding
in the two countries.  Those two systems may be as close as any will get to the
U.S. oil and gas fields this year.  “As the fall and winter come on, the steering currents
just aren’t right for the storms to move out of the Caribbean
and go west, they tend to go north or northeast,” said  William Gray , the  Colorado State University  professor who pioneered
hurricane seasonal forecasting. “As a result you tend to get
late-season storms in Florida and along the East Coast but in
the Gulf, generally not.”  Cold Fronts  As the Northern Hemisphere gets deeper into fall, cold
fronts begin to move into the Gulf of Mexico and knock any
potential hurricanes out of the area, said  Thomas Downs , a
meteorologist at  Weather 2000 Inc.  in New York.  “Think of the cold front as a baseball bat and the storm
as a ball,” Down said. “They just whack that ball out to
sea.”  After the second week of October, the chances of a major
hurricane hitting Texas are just about zero, he said.  However, it isn’t impossible for a storm to strike in
October, said  Jill Hasling , president of the  Weather Research
Center  in Houston. The cold fronts that block storms trying to
get into the Gulf from the Atlantic can themselves spawn storms,
she said.  1989 Exception  Hurricane Jerry grew out of the Gulf in October 12-16,
1989, and struck Galveston Island as a Category 1 hurricane, the
weakest on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson Scale , killing three
people and causing about $70 million in damage, according to
hurricane center records.  While Florida and the eastern Gulf may still have to
contend with a storm rising out of the Caribbean, it is doubtful
this year will produce a repeat of 1989, Rouiller said.  “I still feel pretty good about that,” Rouiller said.
“There is high pressure and dry air prevailing over a large
part of the Gulf and the threat from a damaging Category 1 or
Category 2 hurricane is just not there anymore.”  Gray said many storms will develop in the Caribbean at the
beginning of a season and at the end. In the middle, from about
Aug. 20 to the beginning of October, storms are more likely to
grow in the central Atlantic from an area bounded by the Lesser
Antilles in the west and Cape Verde in the east, he said.  Those storms tend to be among the most powerful, said Gray
from his Fort Collins, Colorado, office. Late-season Caribbean
storms usually aren’t as strong.  However,  in 2008 , Hurricane Paloma, which formed in the
Caribbean off the coast of Nicaragua, attained Category 4
strength and was the second-strongest hurricane to form in
November on record. Paloma struck Cuba and weakened to a
tropical storm before moving through the eastern Gulf of Mexico
near Florida.  Hasling said it’s important to remember that the hurricane
season doesn’t end until Nov. 30 and the area has to be watched.  “And then we have to start planning for next year because
it will be here before we know it,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  