-- Hutchison's 3 Will End $2.2 Billion U.K. Services Contract With Ericsson
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-10-19T16:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/hutchison-s-3-division-to-end-2-2-billion-u-k-contract-with-ericsson.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd.’s  3 U.K.
mobile-phone unit will let a $2.2 billion seven-year managed-
services contract with  Ericsson AB  expire when it ends in 2012.  The 3 unit, which completed a 400 million-pound network
upgrade last week, “gave notice of its intention to terminate”
the contract with Stockholm-based Ericsson, according to a
judgement on the deal’s exit provisions from the High Court of
Justice. The ruling is dated yesterday and posted on the  court’s
website .  Ericsson, the world’s biggest maker of wireless networks,
has to fight harder to win and keep contracts as phone companies
watch their infrastructure spending. The Swedish company, which
on July 23 missed analysts’ estimates for second-quarter profit,
is counting on demand for data, driven by social networking and
richer information via mobile devices to offset falling sales.  The contract was Ericsson’s largest managed-services deal
when it was signed in 2005 and worth more than 15 billion kronor
($2.2 billion), Ericsson spokeswoman Josephine Edwall said via
phone, without giving a precise value. A spokesman for 3
declined to comment.  The contract is potentially worth as much as $2.7 billion,
according to a person familiar with the deal, who declined to be
identified because the agreement was confidential.  Ericsson brought the case to affirm that exit provisions on
termination would remain in place, according to the judgement.
The court ruled that the exit terms can’t be invoked more than
twelve months before the deal ends in 2012.  The 3 unit, which has a wireless network sharing deal with
Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile, completed its U.K. network upgrade
last week by sharing active sites with other operators and
reducing total masts by more than 5,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 