-- Van Gogh’s Head, Gauguin Girls, Cezanne’s Onions Shine in S.F.
-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 2010-10-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/van-gogh-s-face-gauguin-s-girls-cezanne-s-onions-shine-in-s-f-review.html
In  Vincent van Gogh ’s “Portrait of
the Artist” (1887), his orange-red hair and beard glow so
brightly against the dark-green background that it seems his
head is on fire.  The picture hangs among 117 Post-Impressionist paintings
loaned by Paris’s Musee d’Orsay to San Francisco’s  M.H. de Young
Museum . It’s a tremendous show.  Van Gogh’s career is summarized in six other paintings,
including the iconic “Starry Night Over the Rhone” (1888) and
“Bedroom at Arles” (1889), with its lemon-yellow highlights
and strangely cramped perspective. They show how his surfaces
take on thicker layers of paint and become more heavily worked
and chromatically complex.  “Van Gogh, Gauguin, Cezanne and Beyond” is the second of
two traveling shows from the d’Orsay, and it picks up where the
first left off, in about 1880. Visitors are greeted by works
from the established masters of the time, such as Pierre-Auguste
Renoir’s charming “A Dance in the Country” (1883) and  John Singer Sargent ’s bravura full-length portrait of a Spanish
dancer, “La Carmencita” (1890).  Next is a room full of Pointillism, with 11 luminous works
by Georges Seurat (mostly small studies for his monumental
canvases such as “La Grande Jatte”) and several large
paintings by less-well-known artists, including  Paul Signac .  Tahitian Dog  After the Van Goghs,  Paul Gauguin  is represented by 10
works, notably his 1890-91 self-portrait with a yellow
crucifixion scene in the background and the enigmatic
“Arearea” (1892), featuring two young Tahitian women sitting
under a tree while an orange-brown dog sniffs the ground in
front of them.  Paul Cezanne  gets eight paintings in the show, including
the luscious tubers of “Still Life With Onions” (1896-98) and
the muscular male nudes of “Bathers” (1890). The room
demonstrates how Cezanne’s paintings become increasingly
abstract while still depicting tangible objects.  The final galleries deliver the “and Beyond” of the
title, with cheerful landscapes from the Pont-Aven school; quiet
domestic scenes by the Nabis group, including  Pierre Bonnard ,
Maurice Denis and  Felix Vallotton ; and large decorative panels
with hints of art nouveau and Japanese influences.  Japanese-Style Screen  Edouard Vuillard’s 1894 five-panel scene of a public
garden, with well-dressed children, mothers and nannies in a
gold-and-green landscape that recalls Japanese painted screens,
provides a dramatic conclusion to the show.  The first exhibition in this series, “Birth of
Impressionism,” attracted 432,000 visitors in less than four
months. The sequel, also made possible by the multiyear
renovation of the Musee d’Orsay, is certain to be another hit.  “Van Gogh, Gauguin, Cezanne and Beyond” runs through Jan.
18 at the M.H. de Young Museum, Golden Gate Park, San Francisco.
Information: +1-415-750-3600.  ( Stephen West  is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
 Stephen West  in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 