-- Viom Networks Said to Select Citigroup, 4 Banks for $1.5 Billion India IPO
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2010-10-19T08:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/viom-networks-said-to-select-citigroup-4-banks-for-1-5-billion-india-ipo.html
Viom Networks Ltd., the Indian
mobile-phone tower operator backed by Tata Group, plans to raise
as much as $1.5 billion in an initial share sale, three people
with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Citigroup Inc. , Credit Suisse AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
IDFC Capital Ltd. and  Morgan Stanley  have been hired to arrange
the sale, the people said, declining to be identified as the
talks are confidential. The Gurgaon-based company is likely to
seek approval from the capital markets regulator in the first
quarter of next year, two of the people said.  The sale would be the nation’s largest non-state IPO since
Reliance Power Ltd.’s $2.6 billion offering in January 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies led by
government-controlled Coal India Ltd., which this week began
accepting bids in what may be India’s largest IPO, are tapping
investors after the nation became the best performer among the
world’s 10 largest stock markets.  Private equity investors in Viom, a joint venture by Quippo
Telecom Infrastructure Ltd. and  Tata Teleservices Ltd. , plan to
sell stakes during the IPO, two of the people said. A group of
investors led by a fund owned by Macquarie Group Ltd. and  State
Bank of India  paid 14.2 billion rupees ($320 million) for an 11
percent stake in Viom, Quippo said in August.  ‘Market Speculation’  Raza Khan, head of corporate communications at Viom,
declined to comment on “market speculation.” The company is
evaluating fund raising options and may hold an IPO in the next
one to three years, he said in August.  James Griffiths , a spokesman for Citigroup in Hong Kong,
 Edward Naylor , Goldman Sachs’s spokesman in the same city,
Morgan Stanley’s  Nick Footitt  and Credit Suisse spokesman  Adam Harper  declined to comment. IDFC spokeswoman Mona Mohan in
Mumbai didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  Indian companies have raised a record 841 billion rupees in
equity sales this year as the benchmark Sensitive Index rallied
15 percent, Bloomberg data show. Citigroup ranks first in
managing the sales, followed by  Kotak Mahindra Capital Co.  and
Enam Securities Pvt., according to the data.  Coal India expects to raise as much as $3.4 billion in an
offer that expires Oct. 21, Chairman  Partha Bhattacharyya  said
last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  