-- VW May Delay Porsche Merger Amid Lawsuits, Tax Talks
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-10-19T15:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/volkswagen-may-delay-porsche-merger-amid-u-s-lawsuits-german-tax-talks.html
Volkswagen AG Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Winterkorn  may put on hold a combination with
 Porsche SE  planned for next year to first resolve U.S. lawsuits
and German tax disputes. Porsche slumped the most in 15 months.  “The legal proceedings may drag on for some time to come
until a final decision is reached. For that reason, the planned
merger could possibly be delayed,” Winterkorn, also CEO of
 Porsche’s  holding company, said in a speech today. “We’re still
facing a tax-related hurdle and several legal obstacles.”  Volkswagen  agreed to join with Porsche in August 2009 after
the 911 sports-car maker’s debt tripled to more than 10 billion
euros ($14 billion) following a failed bid to buy Europe’s
largest carmaker by securing stock through options trading. VW
has since purchased 49.9 percent of Porsche’s operating unit for
3.9 billion euros, setting the stage for a merger in 2011.  Porsche  is being sued by U.S.-based short sellers of VW
stock who claim the sports-car maker secretly cornered the
market in VW shares and later caused them more than $1 billion
in losses. VW’s merger with Porsche is also being hampered by
negotiations with German tax authorities over the tax-exempt
status of profits from Porsche’s options transactions.  “The fact that the merger is now being delayed is a sign
that obstacles are more severe than thought,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive in Bergisch-
Gladbach, Germany. “That’s no good news for the market.”  Shares Drop  Porsche  preferred shares fell 3.73 euros, or 8.7 percent,
to 38.97 euros in Frankfurt, the biggest decline since July 27,
2009. The stock has dropped 11 percent this year, valuing the
carmaker at 6.84 billion euros. VW slumped 1.3 percent.  “Porsche SE currently assumes that a successful resolution
of the risk factors is possible and that the merger will
therefore materialize,” said VW Chief Financial Officer  Hans- Dieter Poetsch , who’s also on Porsche’s board. “However, it may
possibly not be in line with the ambitious timetable set out.”  As part of the original deal, VW also has the option to pay
cash for the remaining stake in Porsche’s automobile operations
without merging with the holding company. Under this scenario,
the holding company would continue to manage Porsche’s VW stake
and be legally responsible for the pending U.S. litigation.  “Should this path, that so far has only been a theoretical
one, be taken, then Porsche SE would continue to be based on a
solid financial footing,” Winterkorn said in his speech at
Porsche’s annual press conference.  Debt Declines  Porsche ’s debt shrank to 6 billion euros on July 31 from
11.4 billion euros a year earlier, mainly because of the 3.9
billion euros VW, headquartered in Wolfsburg, Germany, paid for
its 49.9 percent stake.  The suit against Porsche, based in Stuttgart, was filed in
Manhattan federal court by Elliott Associates LP, Glenhill
Capital LP, Glenview Capital Partners LP and other short
sellers. The court will decide in January whether to let the
case go forward.  The German sports-car maker has said a ruling by the U.S.
Supreme Court this year limiting foreign investors’ ability to
sue companies based abroad in U.S. courts will help in fighting
the pending lawsuits.  “We consider the U.S. complaints to be ineligible and
unfounded, and have resolutely opposed them,” Winterkorn said.
“We are firmly convinced that we have the better arguments and
facts on all of these legal questions.”  ‘Far From Settled’  Max Warburton , senior analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in
London, said in an Oct. 13 report the legal cases are “far from
settled.” Only two hedge funds have dropped out of the U.S.
complaint against Porsche, while 35 plaintiffs are maintaining
charges under U.S. securities law, according to Warburton.  “The earliest the case could be dismissed is January,” he
said. “Or the case could move forward and potentially take
years to be settled.”  Volkswagen is also working with German tax authorities to
resolve issues connected to the merger. Legal requirements
currently tied to Porsche’s structure would result in higher
taxation if the two were to merge before the end of 2014.  Porsche  shareholders  will be asked Nov. 30 to approve a
capital increase of about 5 billion euros in the first half of
2011 with the carmaker’s controlling shareholders, the Porsche
and Piech families, due to contribute 2.5 billion euros.  The capital increase, which may also include issuance of
convertible bonds, will help Porsche pay back a 2.5-billion euro
bank loan slated to expire June 30, 2011. Lenders have agreed to
give Porsche additional time until Oct. 31, 2011, to repay the
facility should the capital increase be thwarted or delayed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Stuttgart, Germany, via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 