-- WaMu, Lehman, Orleans Homebuilders, Rock J.V., Point Blank: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-10-19T11:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/wamu-lehman-orleans-homebuilders-rock-j-v-point-blank-bankruptcy.html
Even though the examiner for
 Washington Mutual Inc.  won’t issue his report until Nov. 1, U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Mary F. Walrath ruled at a hearing yesterday
that she will approve the disclosure statement explaining the
Chapter 11 plan after final changes are made.  The voting deadline is Nov. 15. Walrath set aside Dec. 1
through Dec. 3 for the confirmation hearing to consider approval
of the plan.  Walrath turned down a request by shareholders to hold off
disclosure statement approval until the examiner’s report is
published. A lawyer for noteholders told Walrath that the plan,
revised to incorporate settlements with creditor groups, is
supported by all constituencies that have a realistic chance of
receiving a distribution.  For Bloomberg coverage, click here and here.  The examiner,  Joshua Hochberg , was selected to analyze the
merits of a settlement among WaMu, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . The plan was modified this month
to incorporate modifications to the settlement. For an
discussion of the changes, click here for the Oct. 7 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report. WaMu’s revised plan is designed to distribute
over $7 billion to creditors. To read about the settlement
before it was modified, click here for the May 24 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report. Click here to read the May 18 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report for a summary of WaMu’s plan.  The WaMu holding company filed under Chapter 11 in
September 2008, one day after the bank subsidiary was taken
over. The bank, which had been the sixth-largest depository and
credit-card issuer in the U.S., was the largest bank failure in
the country’s history. The holding company filed formal lists of
assets and debt showing property with a total value of $4.49
billion against liabilities of $7.83 billion.  The holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Washington
Mutual Inc., 08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Updates  Lehman Using Lazard to Find Investor in Lamco  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  is asking to use  Lazard
Freres & Co. LLC  as an investment banker to assist in
“exploring a strategic relationship with a third party” with
regard to Lehman subsidiary Lamco Holdings LLC. Lehman’s cash
topped $20 billion while professional costs exceeded $1 billion.  Lehman created Lamco during the Chapter 11 case to provide
property-management services for the assets in Lehman’s
portfolio. After realizing that Lamco could provide services to
third parties, Lehman decided to look into whether an outsider
might buy part of Lamco.  Lehman wants the bankruptcy court to modify the terms by
which Lazard has served as investment banker since the outset of
the Chapter 11.  If approved by the judge, Lazard’s monthly fee would rise
from $200,000 a month to $350,000 retroactive to June 1. In
addition, Lazard would receive a $1.25 million fee if there is a
sale or investment in Lamco.  At the outset of the Chapter 11 case, Lazard’s monthly fee
was $400,000. The fixed fee was reduced by agreement to
$200,000. Lazard’s engagement also called for separate fees on
the completion of asset sales.  If there’s an objection, a hearing will be held on Nov. 17
to consider changing the terms of Lazard’s retention.  Lehman had $20.28 billion cash at the end of September, the
holding company for the liquidating broker said in a monthly
operating report filed with the bankruptcy court yesterday. Cash
grew about $462 million during the month.  Cash receipts in the month were $1.035 billion.  Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc. leads the Lehman
companies with $7.465 billion cash. In second place is Lehman
Commercial Paper Inc. with $3.685 billion, followed by the
holding company with $2.509 billion.  Professional fees and expenses since the case began two
years ago now total $1.013 billion, including $49.84 million in
September and fees for the U.S. Trustee system.  Alvarez & Marsal LLC, the financial advisers, billed $13.97
million in September, bringing the total since September 2008 to
$356.4 million. The fees for  Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP , chief
bankruptcy counsel, now total $237.04 million, including $16.18
million in September. Attorneys for the official creditors’
committee from Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP have been paid
$71.18 million, including $1.91 million in September.  The Lehman holding company and its non-brokerage
subsidiaries filed a revised Chapter 11 plan and disclosure
statement in April. For details, click here and here for the
April 15 and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports. Lehman said it
intends on amending the plan in the last quarter of the year and
have the plan approved in a confirmation order by March.  The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Orleans Homebuilders Paying CEO $700,000 to Go Away  Orleans Homebuilders Inc. , a homebuilder scheduled for
approval of a Chapter 11 plan at a Nov. 16 confirmation hearing,
negotiated a settlement where Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey P. Orleans  will be paid $700,000 cash to resign
and waive claims.  Secured lenders, who will take control when the plan is
implemented, evidently have no need for continuing services from
Orleans, who says he would have a $1 million claim solely
resulting from the termination of his employment agreement.  According to the company’s court filing, Orleans filed a
claim for $129,000 and was in a dispute with the company over
the use of trademarks. Orleans also said he would be entitled to
$500,000 under the company’s incentive bonus program.  If the settlement is approved by the bankruptcy court on
Nov. 8, Orleans will give up any claims to trademarks and trade
names, in addition to giving the company a complete release in
return for the $700,000 payment. He will resign all positions
with the company.  Orleans had a $1.1 million salary, plus a pre-bankruptcy
bonus equal to 3 percent of pretax earnings.  Orleans builds homes and condominiums in seven states. The
plan will give stock and new secured debt to revolving credit
lenders owed $234 million. Unsecured creditors are to receive
recoveries from lawsuits and a sharing in proceeds from sales of
properties after secured debt is paid.  The disclosure statement estimates that the revolving
credit lenders will recover between 67 percent and 87 percent
for a vote in favor of the plan. Unsecured creditors should see
between 3.4 percent and 5.25 percent if they vote “yes” as a
class.  The plan reduces debt from more than $400 million to less
than $200 million, the company said in a statement. Orleans
negotiated the plan with holders of more than 80 percent of the
secured debt.  The Chapter 11 filing in March by Bensalem, Pennsylvania-
based Orleans followed maturity of the revolving credit the
month before. Approximately $325 million was owing to the banks
at maturity, not including $15 million on letters of credit. The
March 31 balance sheet listed assets of $591 million against
total liabilities of $560 million.  The case is In re Orleans Homebuilders Inc., 10-10684, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Competing Offer for Rock JV’s Madison Ave. Building  Although U.S. subsidiaries of Rock Joint Ventures Ltd.
didn’t intend to hold an auction for the two office buildings
they own in Manhattan, a higher offer was nonetheless submitted
for the property on Madison Avenue.  The companies filed under Chapter 11 on Sept. 15 aiming for
quick confirmation of a reorganization plan selling the two
buildings for a combined $168.7 million. The buildings are 100-
104 Fifth Ave. and 183 Madison Ave. The originally intended
buyers are offering $93.5 million for the Fifth Avenue property
and $75.2 million for the building on Madison Avenue.  Scott Pudalov and Alan Wildes submitted an offer last week
of $76.2 million for the Madison Avenue property. The companies
referred to Pudalov and Wildes in a court filing as
“disgruntled former employees of the management company” who
were fired “for cause.” The two have been claiming they have a
right of first refusal on the Madison Avenue property.  The plan was accepted before the Chapter 11 filing by  Bank
of Scotland Plc , the agent for the senior and subordinated
secured lenders. The lenders are owed $267 million on the senior
debt and $26 million on the subordinated obligation. The plan is
premised on the idea that no creditors aside from the senior
lenders will receive anything. The bankruptcy court in Delaware
scheduled a hearing on Nov. 9 both to approve the disclosure
statement and confirm the plan.  Based on the previously negotiated sale prices, the plan
would give senior lenders a 63.2 percent recovery. The $98.1
million deficiency claim would be treated as an unsecured claim
receiving nothing. A court filing says there is another $381,000
in unsecured claims.  The parent is in administration in the U.K. The
administrators control the U.S. companies that filed in Chapter
11.  The case is In re Rock US Holdings Inc., 10-12892, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Franchise Brands Buys Taco Del Mar Assets at Auction  Franchise Brands LLC, with an offer of $3.25 million, was
the winning bidder for the assets of Taco Del Mar Franchising
Corp., a franchiser of quick-service Mexican food restaurants.
The auction had three bidders. The first bid was $1.95 million.  Franchise Brands is acquiring a business with more than 200
locations. Some of the buyer’s other brands are Personal
Training Institute, Mama DeLuca’s Pizza Now! and HomeVestors of
America Inc.  Unsecured creditors, with $12 million in claims on file,
will receive distributions from the portion of the sale price
above about $2 million, according to a court filing by a
financial adviser for the official creditors’ committee.  Taco Del Mar listed asset of $314,000 and debt totaling
$3.02 million in the Chapter 11 petition filed in January. The
company is located in Kenmore, Washington.  The case is In re Taco Del Mar Franchising Corp., 10-10528,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District Washington (Seattle).  Daily Podcast  Old GM DIP Loan, First Amendment and Chapter 11, Conduits: Audio  Possible problems with the government’s loan to old  General
Motors Corp. , the First Amendment right to disparage a company
in Chapter 11, and an expansion of the “mere conduit” defense
to fraudulent transfers are analyzed in the new bankruptcy
podcast on the Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To
listen, click here.  Briefly Noted  Rosenbloom to Be Point Blank Creditors’ Board Observer  Point Blank Solutions Inc. , a manufacturer of soft body
armor for the military and law enforcement, settled a motion by
the creditors’ committee for the appointment of a Chapter 11
trustee by agreeing to the appointment of  Eric J. Rosenbloom  to
be an observer of the board of directors. Rosenbloom, who was
general counsel for Hilco/Great American Group, will report to
the official committees representing stockholders and unsecured
creditors.  The former chief executive and chief operating officer were
convicted in September of orchestrating a $185 million fraud.  Point Blank has a plant and head office in Pompano Beach,
Florida, and a second plant in Jacksboro, Tennessee. Revenue in
2009 exceeded $153 million. The petition listed assets of $64
million against debt totaling $68.5 million. Debt included a
$10.5 million secured loan paid off by financing for the Chapter
11 case. Point Blank said it also owes $28.2 million to trade
suppliers.  The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware.  Spheris Plan Paying 23 Percent of Unsecured Creditors’ Claims  Spheris Inc., a transcriber of medical dictation for
doctors and hospitals before the business was sold, should be
paying its unsecured creditors about 23 percent, the trustee for
the liquidating trust said in a statement yesterday. The Chapter
11 plan confirmed in August was implemented on Sept. 20.  Spheris is now formally called SP Wind Down Inc. It sold
the business for $98.83 million cash and a note that was later
sold for $13.77 million. At Jan. 31, secured lenders were owed
$75.6 million. Unsecured claims were comprised mostly of $125
million on subordinated notes.  Franklin, Tennessee-based Spheris originally listed assets
of $61 million against debt totaling $225 million, including
$75.6 million on a senior secured credit and $125 million on
subordinated notes.  The case is In re SP Wind Down Inc., 10-10352, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  New Filings  Robert Schuller’s Crystal Ministries Files Chapter 11  Crystal Cathedral Ministries , a mega-church in Garden
Grove, California, filed for Chapter 11 protection yesterday in
Santa Ana, California, saying assets and debt both exceed $50
million.  The web site says the church has more than 10,000 members.
The church was founded by  Robert H. Schuller  and is known for
the Hour of Power television show.  Schuller said in July that he was retiring, to be succeeded
by his daughter Sheila Schuller Coleman.  For Bloomberg coverage of the filing, click here.  The case is In re Crystal Cathedral Ministries, 10-24771,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central District California (Santa Ana).  North Carolina’s Northfield Investments Files Chapter 11  Northfield Investments Inc., the owner of developments in
Pineville, Charlotte and Huntersville, North Carolina, filed for
Chapter 11 protection yesterday in Charlotte, listing assets of
$10.8 million against debt totaling $13.1 million.  The petition says $10.18 million is owing to secured
lenders Berkadia LLC and an affiliate of  Wells Fargo & Co. 
Northfield believes that both lenders can be repaid in full from
the value of the properties.  The case is In re Northfield Investments Inc., 10-33044,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Western District North Carolina
(Charlotte).  Advance Sheets  Bankruptcy Trustee Cannot be Class-Action Plaintiff  Because a bankruptcy trustee owes a fiduciary duty to
creditors of the estate, U.S. District Judge  G. Patrick Murphy 
in East St. Louis, Illinois, ruled that the trustee has a
conflict of interest precluding him from suing a bank creditor
in a putative class action where the bankrupt would have been
the class representative.  In his Oct. 15 opinion, Murphy pointed out how the
bankruptcy trustee would carry two fiduciary duties were the
trustee to be the class plaintiff. On one hand the trustee would
owe fiduciary duties to the bankruptcy estate, and on the other
the trustee would owe fiduciary duties to members of the class.  Murphy barred the trustee from being a class plaintiff
under a 2003 decision from the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
in Chicago named Dechert v. Cadle Co.  The case is Centrue Bank v. Samson (In re Thompson), 10-
381, U.S. District Court, Southern District Illinois (East St.
Louis, Illinois).  Inflated Claim No Basis for FDCPA Class-Action Suit  Filing an inflated claim against an individual bankrupt
isn’t the basis for a lawsuit claiming a violation of the
federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the 2nd U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals ruled on Oct. 5.  A lender filed a $2,039 claim against a couple in
bankruptcy. After the bankruptcy court reduced the claim to
$1,100, the couple filed a class-action suit alleging a
violation of FDCPA. The district court dismissed the suit, and
the 2nd Circuit in Manhattan affirmed.  The appeals court said that the FDCPA is “designed to
protect defenseless debtors and to give them remedies against
abuse by creditors.” In the opinion of the appeals court,
“there is no need to protect debtors who are already under the
protection of the bankruptcy court.”  If the bankrupts believed they were wronged, the circuit
court said they should have exercised remedies under the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code, including contempt.  The circuit court ruled in the bankrupts’ favor on the
issue of defendants’ attorneys’ fees.  The district judge assessed the lenders’ costs and
attorneys’ fees against the bankrupts. The appeals court
reversed, saying the suit wasn’t filed in bad faith because
“the merits turned on a question of law that was, until this
opinion, not decided in this Circuit.”  The case is  Simmons v. Roundup Funding LLC, 09-4984, 2nd
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 