-- Whitbread Climbs to Three-Year High as Premier Inn Hotels Boost Profit 58%
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-10-19T09:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/whitbread-shares-advance-to-three-year-high-on-premier-inn-profit-increase.html
Whitbread Plc,  the largest U.K.
hotel and restaurant company, rose to a three-year high in
London trading after reporting a 58 percent gain in profit on
growth at Premier Inn budget hotels and Costa Coffee shops.  The  shares  advanced as much as 2.1 percent, climbing to the
highest since Nov. 1, 2007.  First-half operating profit increased 21 percent in
Whitbread’s hotel and restaurant unit and 56 percent at Costa,
the Dunstable, England-based company said today in a statement.
Net income attributable to shareholders for the six months ended
Sept. 2 rose to 116.4 million pounds ($184.2 million).  “The market had expected good interims from Whitbread and
this was duly delivered,”  Nigel Parson , an analyst at Evolution
Securities, said in a research note. “Whitbread has emerged
from recession in good condition with a strong platform for
growth.” Parson has a “buy” rating on the shares.  Whitbread says it’s gaining market share as Premier Inn,
which offers rooms starting at 29 pounds a night, attracts
business customers seeking to reduce travel expenses. Premier,
which accounted for about 44 percent of Whitbread’s sales last
year, reported a 79 percent like-for-like occupancy rate in the
first half, up about 9 percentage points from the prior year.  “We are also concerned about what the outlook may be, but
if you can offer value for money, people will still come back to
shop with you,” Chief Financial Officer  Chris Rogers  said on
Bloomberg Television’s Countdown with  Maryam Nemazee .  Hotel Occupancy  Premier Inn aims to increase occupancy at its hotels to 80
percent and may meet that target by 2012, Rogers said. Occupancy
could grow to its “likely upper limit in the mid-80s” by 2013,
 John Beaumont , a Matrix Group analyst in London, wrote in a note
yesterday. He has a “buy” recommedation on Whitbread.  The hotel chain plans to add 1,700 rooms in the second
half, after opening almost 800 in the first half. A further
3,500 rooms are due to be added next year.  Whitbread’s Costa Coffee unit opened 116 stores in the
first half and plans to open about 130 stores in the second
half, the company said.  Sales  at outlets open at least a year
rose 8.5 percent in the first half, compared with growth of 10
percent at Premier Inn and 4.2 percent in restaurants.  Whitbread rose 14 pence, or 0.8 percent, to 1,707 pence at
10:30 a.m., giving the company a market value of about 3 billion
pounds. The stock has gained 21 percent this year, compared with
the 33 percent gain of  InterContinental  Hotels Group Plc, the
U.K. owner of the Holiday Inn brand.  Higher opening costs in the second half and a more
“muted” outlook for consumer spending may curb investors’
enthusiasm, said  Nigel Hicks , an analyst at Liberum Capital, in
a note today. He has a “buy” rating on Whitbread.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  