-- Whole Milk Powder Prices Fall to Two-Month Low at Auction, Fonterra Says
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2010-10-19T22:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/whole-milk-powder-prices-fall-to-two-month-low-at-auction-fonterra-says.html
Whole milk powder auction prices
fell to the lowest in more than two months as higher U.S.
production boosted global milk supply and recent high prices
curbed demand.  Powder for December delivery fell 2 percent from two weeks
earlier, according to a trade-weighted price index calculated by
 Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.  after its  GlobalDairyTrade 
auction today. The average price fell to $3,485 a ton, the
lowest since early August and the second decline following a
15-week high set at the Sept. 15 sale.  Fonterra accounts for about 40 percent of the global trade
in butter, milk powder and cheese, selling $12 billion of
product a year in 140 countries. U.S. milk production climbed
3.3 percent in September from a year earlier to 15.53 billion
pounds (7 billion kilograms), the U.S. Department of
Agriculture said in a  report  yesterday.  “An increased volume of U.S. product will enter the global
market, the same market that New Zealand and Australian products
are entering,” said Susan Kilsby, dairy analyst at  NZX Agrifax 
in Wellington. “Those increased volumes are coming into a
market that is showing signs of slight weakening at current
high prices.”  Buyers will show “more resistance” as milk trades at
historically high prices and supply increases as Australia and
New Zealand head toward their peak production season, she said.  Fonterra Payout  Last month Fonterra raised its farmer payout forecast
citing rising global prices. There are signs that international
dairy supply and demand are “moving more in balance at
prevailing prices” amid international market volatility, Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Ferrier  said in a statement on Sept. 23.  Fonterra sells whole and skim milk powder and dried milk
fat at its fortnightly Internet-based auctions. It offers one-
month  contract s with delivery starting two months after the sale,
and two three-month contracts with delivery starting three and
six months later.  Whole milk powder for delivery from January through March
fell 0.3 percent, Fonterra said. Powder for shipment from April
through June declined 0.9 percent. Across all contracts prices
fell 1.1 percent.  The winning first-contract price for regular New Zealand
whole milk powder, which is the reference point for NZX Ltd.’s
futures contract, fell to $3,455. The October futures contract
last traded at $3,525 on Oct. 18.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  