-- Winnebago's First Takeover in 20 Years Widens Lineup for Economic Rebound
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-10-19T13:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/winnebago-s-first-takeover-attempt-in-two-decades-affirms-economic-rebound.html
Winnebago Industries Inc. , the
biggest U.S. maker of motor homes, may make its first
acquisition in more than 20 years, signaling the recreational-
vehicle market sees a sustained economic recovery.  Winnebago may acquire SunnyBrook Manufacturing Inc., the
privately held maker of towable recreational vehicles, by the
end of the year, according to a statement yesterday. Winnebago,
which didn’t disclose financial details, said it has signed a
letter of intent and is still studying the potential deal.  A takeover by Forest City, Iowa-based Winnebago would mark
an entry into the faster-growing towable-RV market,  Craig Kennison , an analyst at Robert W. Baird, wrote in a research
note. The acquisition also reflects confidence among RV makers,
which have foreshadowed economic declines and rebounds.  “There won’t be a double dip in the RV industry,”  Mac Bryan , vice president of administration at the Recreation
Vehicle Industry Association, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “This is a marketplace that is in recovery.”  The acquisition would be Winnebago’s first in more than 20
years,  Sheila Davis , a spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview. Davis said the company, which announced in November
2009 that it was studying “potential diversification
strategies,” may consider additional acquisitions.  Winnebago leads the motor-home industry with a 19 percent
market share, according to Robert W. Baird’s Kennison, who is
based in Milwaukee. SunnyBrook sold 1,700 towable RVs last year,
making it the 13th-largest manufacturer in that market,
Kennison wrote yesterday in a research note.  ‘Like the Concept’  “We like the concept,” he wrote. “Winnebago has the most
recognizable brand in RVs, but has yet to leverage it in the
faster-growing towable market. SunnyBrook would represent a
small but strategic step in that direction.”  Kennison estimates Middlebury, Indiana-based SunnyBrook’s
annual revenue at $30 million to $40 million.  Wholesale deliveries by U.S. RV manufacturers surged
71 percent to 177,300 units through the first eight months of
2010, according to the  Recreation Vehicle Industry Association .
Shipments in all of 2009 were 165,700, the lowest since 1991,
according to RVIA data, as consumers deferred discretionary
purchases during the economic slump.  Shipments may rise to 239,900 in 2010, a gain of 45 percent
from 2009, according to  Richard Curtin , an RV industry analyst
and director of consumer surveys at the University of Michigan.
Industry shipments may increase 8 percent to 259,600 in 2011,
according to Curtin, who analyzes data for the RVIA, the
industry’s Reston, Virginia-based trade group.  The RV industry includes more than 80 manufacturers, RVIA’s
Bryan said.  Consolidation Time  “This is the time in the business cycle where
consolidation tends to occur,” Bryan said. “While we’re still
seeing some problems continuing related to consumer confidence
and the availability of credit, we’re finding that primary
demand is very strong. Consumers want to be in RVs and in the
outdoors.”  Among the investors reaping gains from the industry is
 Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Berkshire’s  Forest
River Inc.  RV unit helped the holding company’s manufacturing,
service and retailing businesses more than double earnings to
$1.15 billion in the six months through June 30, according to a
regulatory filing.  Winnebago and Jackson Center, Ohio-based Thor Industries
Inc. are the largest, publicly traded RV makers.  Shares of  Winnebago  have lost 20 percent this year after
more than doubling in 2009.  Thor  has declined 1.6 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  