-- World Bank Cuts East Asia Growth Outlook, Sees Seeds of Asset Price Bubble
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2010-10-19T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/world-bank-cuts-east-asia-growth-outlook-sees-seeds-of-asset-price-bubble.html
The World Bank lowered its outlook
for growth next year in China and across East Asia, urging
officials in the region to curb inflation and ward off asset
bubbles to avoid a repeat of the Asian financial crisis.  Developing East Asia, which excludes Japan, Hong Kong,
Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore and India, will expand 7.8
percent next year, slower than an April estimate of 8 percent,
the Washington-based lender said a semiannual report today. The
region is forecast to grow 8.9 percent in 2010.  Countries from South Korea to Thailand sold their
currencies in recent weeks to curb gains that threaten to slow
exports, while others including Taiwan are weighing tighter
rules on capital flows. As money pours in, equities have “more
than recouped” losses, bond values have “raced significantly
above their lows” and an index of East Asian real estate is 17
percent higher than it was in early 2007, the report said.  “Larger inflows combined with ample domestic liquidity and
rising confidence have boosted stock markets, real-estate prices
and other asset valuations in some countries, precipitating
fears of a new bubble,” the report said. “Authorities in East
Asia need to take adequate precautions to ensure that they do
not repeat the same mistake twice in slightly over a decade.”  Policy makers in Asia and the Pacific Rim are shifting
their focus to supporting their economies after some moved
earlier this year to counter inflation and overvalued assets
such as overheated property markets.  The Bank of Japan on Oct. 5 unexpectedly cut its benchmark
rate for the first time since 2008, while Australia and
Indonesia left their key rates unchanged on the same day.  Currencies Strengthen  All of Asia’s major currencies, except the Hong Kong dollar
which is pegged to the U.S. currency, have strengthened this
year. That’s prompted some countries to take steps aimed at
slowing incoming capital as the world’s fastest-growing region
lures investment, boosting currencies to levels that threaten to
hurt exports.  “Developed and developing countries worldwide are bent on
avoiding stronger exchange rates, as concerns about weak foreign
demand -- and a limited scope for exports to boost growth --
intensify,” the World Bank said. “Appreciating exchange rates
so far have not crippled the recovery, but further appreciation
will bear close watching.”  Slow Inflows  Thailand last week said it will remove a 15 percent tax
exemption for foreigners on income from domestic bonds, joining
Indonesia, South Korea and Brazil in seeking to slow inflows.
Japan last month intervened for the first time in six years to
restrain the yen and protect exporters.  “The surge in capital inflows poses challenges for policy
makers as they strive to balance the need for long?term foreign
capital with efforts to ensure that exchange rate appreciation
does not adversely affect competitiveness,” the bank said.  China’s  economy  will grow at the weakest pace in a decade
in 2011, with gross domestic product expanding 8.5 percent from
a forecast of 9.5 percent this year, according to the bank’s
report. In April, the World Bank predicted China’s gross
domestic product would increase by 8.7 percent next year.  China needs to rebalance “by altering the pattern of
growth and investment is becoming critical for sustainability,”
according to the World Bank, which was formed after World War II
to alleviate poverty.  ‘Rethink’ Policy Mix  Across East Asia, expansions will slow “as spare capacity
becomes scarce, fiscal and monetary measures are gradually
unwound and economic growth in the advanced economies remains
relatively flat,” the report said. “Governments will now need
to rethink the most appropriate mix of fiscal and monetary
policies to curb inflation while supporting the recovery in
growth.”  While the outlook for the global economy has “brightened”
in the past six months, “risks are mostly on the downside this
year for growth in advanced economies, especially in the United
States,” the bank’s report said.  The World Bank said government finances in the euro area
remain a concern, and the U.S. economy is still stricken with
elevated unemployment, a weak housing market and slow progress
restoring the banking industry to full health.  “While the probability of a double-dip recession in
advanced countries has receded, there remains a high probability
that their growth rates will continue to be muted for a few
years to come,” the report said. “This presents a difficult
medium-term global environment for East Asia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  