-- Wridgways Wins Court Approval for Plan to Sell to Santa Fe for $89 Million
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-10-19T03:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/wridgways-wins-australian-court-approval-for-plan-to-sell-to-santa-fe.html
Wridgways Australia Ltd.  won an
Australian court’s approval for its plan to sell the company to
 Santa Fe EAC Moving and Relocation Services  for A$89.6 million
($88.6 million), to be voted on by shareholders Nov. 25.  Santa Fe’s offer of A$2.80 a share is 10 percent less than
the high end of a range of A$2.60 to A$3.11 that accounting firm
BDO Australia concluded Wridgways was worth, Federal Court Judge
Peter Jacobson said at a hearing in Sydney today. The  shares 
closed at A$2.78 on the Australian Securities Exchange yesterday
and haven’t traded today.  “The court doesn’t usurp the judgment of the
shareholders,” said Jacobson, who had to decide whether the
plan was fair. It will be up to the shareholders to decide
whether the A$2.80 offer is adequate, he said.  Closely held Santa Fe, based in Hong Kong, offered on Sept.
20 to buy Wridgways, a 117-year-old Australian moving company
with 30 offices and 470 employees, under a so-called scheme of
arrangement. Under the plan, Santa Fe must win support from 75
percent of Wridgways shareholders and the judge must approve it.  Jacobson raised concern that parts of the plan protecting
Santa Fe’s bid, including its right to match any competing offer
and a lack of a provision giving a potential rival bidder time
to respond to a matching offer, might be anti-competitive.  “It’s a disincentive to a competing bidder,” he said.  Wridgways must inform the shareholders of any superior
offer that’s made, and a rival bidder will have time to respond
to Santa Fe’s match because of a delay before shareholders get a
chance to vote,  Malcolm Oakes , a lawyer for the company, told
the judge.  The case is: Application by Wridgways Australia Ltd.
NSD1227/2010. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  