-- Xstrata's Third-Quarter Coal Output Drops 5% on Shutdowns, Adverse Weather
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2010-10-19T08:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/xstrata-s-third-quarter-coal-output-drops-5-on-shutdowns-adverse-weather.html
Xstrata Plc , the largest exporter of
power-station coal, said third-quarter coal production fell 5
percent following mine closures and adverse weather.  Output dropped to 21.9 million metric tons from 23 million
tons a year earlier, the Zug, Switzerland-based company said
today in a statement. Copper production rose 10 percent.  Coal output was cut by the halt of the Southstock project
in South Africa, while production at Cerrejon in Colombia was
curbed by heavy rain and Australian volumes were affected by the
closure of the United underground colliery and industrial action
at the Tahmoor mine. The report excluded production from the
Prodeco unit in Colombia, which Xstrata sold back to Glencore
International AG, its largest  shareholder , in March.  Xstrata  dropped 0.5 percent to 1,298 pence in London
trading as of 8:53 a.m. local time, trimming its gain this year
to 16 percent.  Copper production advanced to 233,647 tons in the third
quarter from 212,173 tons as a result of improved mining rates
and grades at the Ernest Henry and Mount Isa mines in Australia
and the Kidd operation in Canada. Mined nickel climbed 12
percent to a record 16,174 tons because of a “significant”
increase in volumes and grades at the Nickel Rim South mine in
Canada, according to the statement.  On Track  “Xstrata reported third-quarter 2010 production numbers
which were in line with our forecasts,” Heath Jansen, a London-
based analyst at Citigroup Inc., said today in a note.
“Consensus  earnings  are unlikely to change on the back of the
numbers.”  Output of zinc in concentrate, an intermediate product
shipped to smelters, fell by 10 percent, while ferrochrome
output declined 7 percent, Xstrata said. Ferrochrome producers
settled the third-quarter benchmark price at $1.30 a pound and
achieved the same price for the fourth quarter.  The company also announced resources at its West Wall
copper project in central Chile. The estimated inferred resource
for the project’s Lagunillas deposit totals 750 million tons at
a grade of 0.54 percent copper and 0.01 percent molybdenum,
Xstrata said today in a separate statement.  Xstrata Copper and  Anglo American Plc  are equal owners of
mining company West Wall SCM, which holds the project.  Xstrata will announce preliminary results for the year
ending Dec. 31 on Feb. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Firat Kayakiran  in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  