-- Yahoo Misses Estimates After Users Flock to Google, Facebook
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2010-10-19T23:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/yahoo-sales-forecast-misses-estimates-as-users-flock-to-google-facebook.html
Yahoo! Inc. , the most-visited U.S.
Web portal, predicted sales that fell short of analysts’
estimates after Internet users and advertisers shifted to
social-networking sites and Google Inc.  Excluding  revenue  passed on to partner sites, fourth-
quarter sales will be $1.13 billion to $1.23 billion, Sunnyvale,
California-based Yahoo said today in a statement. Analysts had
estimated $1.25 billion on average, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz , who began leading a
turnaround effort in January 2009, has failed to gain market
share from Google and now faces rising competition from Facebook
Inc. and other social-networking sites. U.S. online users spent
9.5 percent of their time on Yahoo in September, down from 13.8
percent two years earlier, according to ComScore Inc.  “The company’s still under a fair amount of pressure,”
 Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP in New York who has
a hold rating on the shares. The company uses ad formats that
are less popular among advertisers, and it lacks social-
networking features, he said. “Yahoo still looks like a 1.0
property in a 2.0 world.”  Yahoo  was little changed in late trading after the
announcement. Earlier today, the shares fell 44 cents to $15.49
on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock jumped 12 percent last
week, spurred by renewed buyout speculation.  Takeover Talk  Yahoo, which spurned an acquisition bid from Microsoft
Corp. in 2008, is working with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  to help
defend against possible takeover approaches, said three people
familiar with the matter last week.  AOL Inc.  has talked with
private-equity companies, including Silver Lake, about a
possible bid, two people familiar with the matter said.  Discussions between AOL and the private-equity firms are
preliminary and have focused on a possible purchase of parts of
Yahoo, two of the people said. Neither AOL nor the private-
equity firms have made a proposal to Yahoo, the people said.  “They’re not benefiting like Google is from being a global
company,” said  Jason Helfstein , an analyst at New York-based
Oppenheimer & Co. who rates Yahoo’s stock “perform” and
doesn’t own it. “I think the stock is trading on: ‘Does
something happen with the company?’”  ‘A Lot More Work’  When asked during a conference call whether she might
consider an offer from a private-equity firm, Bartz declined to
comment. She said the company is focused on increasing its
revenue and expanding profitability, and the quarter shows that
Yahoo is on the right track.  “Yahoo is a company with tremendous potential,” she said.
“We have a lot more work to do in the months ahead, but we’re
clearly making progress. And the payoff, I believe, in return to
our shareholders will be substantial.”  Net income  attributable to the company more than doubled to
$396.1 million, or 29 cents a share, from $186.1 million, or 13
cents, a year earlier. Yahoo gained 13 cents from the sale of
its HotJobs site and had a 4-cent benefit a year earlier from an
investment in Alibaba.com. Analysts had estimated 15 cents on
average.  Excluding  revenue  passed on to partner sites, Yahoo had
third-quarter sales of $1.12 billion, missing the $1.13 billion
predicted by  analysts .  Google, Facebook  “Google and Facebook are fighting very vigorously for
share of wallet from the brand dollars migrating online,” said
 Sandeep Aggarwal , an analyst at Caris & Co. in San Francisco who
recommends buying Yahoo shares. “For the last 12 years, we saw
Yahoo being the biggest beneficiary of brand dollars coming on
the Internet, but now you have Google and Facebook also trying
to claim those dollars.”  While more Internet users are getting their news and
information from social-networking sites, Yahoo remains the most
popular U.S. Web portal, according to Reston, Virginia-based
ComScore.  Yahoo has been trying to take advantage of the social-
networking trend by forming partnerships with other sites. Users
can now see their Facebook updates without leaving the home page
of Yahoo. In September, the company announced plans to integrate
its website with Twitter Inc.’s service. And earlier this year,
Yahoo forged a deal with Zynga Game Network Inc. to let
applications such as “FarmVille” and “Mafia Wars” run on
Yahoo’s sites.  Microsoft Pact  Bartz also has closed poor-performing websites and farmed
out Yahoo’s Internet search business to  Microsoft . The
companies’ 10-year agreement puts Microsoft’s Bing search engine
on Yahoo, creating a bigger competitor to Google.  For now,  Google  has maintained its dominance. Its share of
U.S. searches climbed to 66.1 percent last month, from 65.4
percent in August, according to  ComScore . Yahoo fell to 16.7
percent from 17.4 percent, while third-place Microsoft rose to
11.2 percent from 11.1 percent.  Yahoo’s display ads, such as banners and videos, jumped 17
percent last quarter. Still, that’s a slowdown from the second
quarter, when display ads climbed 19 percent. Internet-search
revenue on its sites declined 7 percent in the third quarter
from the year-earlier period.  The company also has stepped up stock buybacks. Yahoo has
repurchased more than 7 percent of its shares this year.  “We’re making progress,” Yahoo Chief Financial Officer
 Tim Morse  said in an interview. “We’re very happy with the
strategy, and we’re focused on executing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  