-- Yale's Dudley Wields NBA Pedigree, Cash Advantage in Oregon Governor Fight
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2010-10-19T16:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/yale-s-dudley-wields-nba-pedigree-cash-advantage-in-oregon-governor-fight.html
Chris Dudley , a journeyman center
during his pro basketball career, may have to retire the
underdog image if  Oregon  makes him its first Republican governor
in 23 years.  Dudley, 45, a 6-foot-11 (211-centimeter) wealth manager who
has never run for office, is nearly even in polls with former
Democratic Governor  John Kitzhaber , 63, who was an emergency-
room doctor before entering politics. While Democrats have held
the state’s top job for six straight terms, Dudley’s almost 2-
to-1 money advantage may help him pull off a coup, said
Portland-based independent pollster Mike Riley.  “There is likely to be an upset, and it will be the
biggest seismic change in Oregon politics in the last quarter
century,”  Paul Gronke , a Democrat and director of the  Early
Voting Information Center  at Reed College in Portland, said in a
telephone interview. “Our fiscal crisis trumps everything.”  President  Barack Obama  travels to Oregon tomorrow to
campaign for Kitzhaber, who served two terms as governor.
Republicans, who control 24 governorships, may gain at least six
in the Nov. 2 election, according to the  Rothenberg Political
Report . They are also challenging for U.S. House and Senate
majorities.  The recession, bank bailouts and trillion-dollar health-
care legislation are sapping energy from Obama’s party, with
Republican candidates vowing to reduce the size and reach of
government.  Cuts and Costs  Oregon suffers from “runaway state government spending”
and “lack of fiscal management,” Dudley says in a position
paper on his  website . He would stop routine budget increases and
set up a team to review fiscal assumptions and conduct regular
audits, according to the paper. He also proposes that employees
pay for a larger portion of their health-care costs, and would
end the state monopoly on liquor sales.  Oregon has 10.6 percent  unemployment , a point higher than
the U.S. average, and more than 200,000 citizens out of work.
The state faces a deficit of more than $14 billion over a decade
at its current service level, according to the office of
Democratic Governor  Ted Kulongoski , who cannot run again because
of term limits.  Schools, prisons, colleges and health coverage are all set
for cuts, according a June  report  from the governor. “Beginning
next February and March, people will see almost daily stories
about programs disappearing and very hard choices,” said John
Tapogna, president of consulting firm ECONorthwest in Portland.  At the Line  Dudley decided to run after a  career  as a rare Ivy Leaguer
in the National Basketball Association. He’s remembered as much
for his struggle with free throws (46 percent average versus
last year’s NBA-wide average of  76 percent ) as his workmanlike
rebounding (5,457, compared with record-holder  Wilt Chamberlain ’s 23,924).  Dudley also built a reputation off the court through his
charity work and youth basketball camp. He was diagnosed at 16
with Type 1 diabetes and runs the Chris Dudley Foundation, which
provides information and resources to help those with the
disease.  “Dudley is fresh, young and interesting,” Gronke said.
“He’s portraying the image of a centrist Republican, not
conservative socially, that harkens back to the Republicans in
Oregon in the ‘70s and ‘80s.”  Dudley hasn’t been associated with the Tea Party movement
and his stands on social issues fit with Oregon’s libertarian
tradition, said Gronke.  The candidate’s proposals are tired Republican themes,
Kitzhaber said during a Sept. 30 debate.  Untried, Untested  “He’s a new face, but it’s the same old ideas,” said
Kitzhaber, who was governor from 1995 until 2003. Dudley doesn’t
have enough experience for tough times, he said.  Bondholders support the newcomer’s focus on cuts, said
 Thomas Metzold , co-director of municipal investments at Boston-
based  Eaton Vance  Corp.  “They would see some fiscal conservatism,” said Metzold,
who runs a $130 million Oregon fund. “Everybody talks about the
revenue side, but expenditures have grown at a much faster
pace.”  The premium investors demand to hold Oregon’s securities
has widened five-fold since April 2009. The state’s most recent
general obligation debt was sold that month, with bonds maturing
in August 2028 priced to yield 4.2 percent, 14 basis points
above 19-year AAA debt, according to the Bloomberg Valuation
 index .  They traded at an average yield of 3.85 percent on Oct. 8,
73 basis points  above  AAA debt due in 18 years. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  A Revived Oregon  During a recent stop at a Portland machine factory, Dudley
spoke to about 40 employees, some in jeans flecked with metal
shavings, on a floor the size of two football fields.  “We’re not living up to our potential,” said Dudley. He
said he wanted to revive a state once known for fiscal restraint
and moderate politics and blessed with natural  beauty .  “I don’t think that’s too much to ask,” he said.  Dudley and Kitzhaber were tied last week in a Rasmussen
Reports and Survey USA polls and in a forecast by
 FiveThirtyEight , a New York Times political blog. The Cook
Political Report rates the race a tossup.  Dudley had a $7.7 million to $4 million money advantage
over Kitzhaber as of Oct. 15, and the support of 12 percent of
Democratic voters in the most recent Riley Research survey. The
Republican Governors Association gave him $250,000 in July and
$500,000 in August, according to the group’s Internal Revenue
Service filings.  “It’s a fight to the finish,” said Riley, the Portland
pollster.  Facing the Commissioner  Dudley, a 1987 Yale University graduate with an economics
and political science degree, played for five teams in 16 NBA
seasons. He had two stints with the Portland Trail Blazers,
1993-97 and 2001-03, retiring after the last and settling in
Lake Oswego, south of the city.  Dudley challenged the league twice regarding his contract,
winning both times in arbitration and setting precedents that
bettered the lot of all players, said  Ron Klempner , associate
general counsel of the NBA Players Association.  “Not everyone is prepared to sit across the table from the
commissioner,” Klempner said in an interview.  Dudley decided to run for governor after seeing as a
diabetes advocate testifying before the U.S. Senate what could
be accomplished inside government, he said in an interview.  Politics are “part of the family,” he said. His
grandfather, Guilford Dudley Jr., a Nashville, Tennessee,
insurance executive, was ambassador to Denmark.  Act Naturally  Dudley doesn’t flaunt his family ties, said Tom Brennan,
his Yale coach, who recruited him out of high school in Solana
Beach, California, a San Diego suburb. Only when Yale played
Vanderbilt University in Nashville and the team visited Guilford
Dudley’s house did Brennan see the privilege.  “There were butlers, and everything was marble, and I
thought, ‘This guy doesn’t act like this at all,’” Brennan
said. “He was the hardest-working member of the team and never
had a sense of entitlement. I never would have known he was
wealthy.”  Dudley earned $38.3 million as an athlete, according to
 basketball-reference.com . He has given $2 million to charity,
said Brittany Bramell, a campaign spokeswoman. After the NBA, he
joined M Financial Wealth Management, an advisory firm for high-
net-worth people. Since 2008 he’s been a partner at Filigree
Advisors LLC in Lake Oswego. The firm’s founder,  Gerald Graves ,
met Dudley at M Financial.  Burning Down the House  In 2004, Dudley allowed Lake Oswego firefighters to train
by burning his house, which he intended to demolish. Dudley
claimed a $350,000 loss under U.S. Internal Revenue Service
rules. He said he hasn’t been contacted by the tax agency about
the deduction, although the write-off strategy has come under
IRS scrutiny in other cases.  “One risk he has is being seen as the out-of-touch rich
guy, but the taxation stuff hasn’t gained headway,” Gronke
said.  Dudley’s down-to-earth personality is an asset with
Oregonians such as Diane Haugen-Torres, who has never voted
Republican. “Democrats for Dudley” ads encourage her to do the
unprecedented, said the 58-year-old manager of a Made in Oregon
souvenir store in a suburban Portland mall.  “He looks more approachable than Kitzhaber,” she said.
“I’m feeling for Dudley. Sometimes an outsider brings new
ideas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Levy  in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 