-- Yankees Turn to Struggling Pitcher A.J. Burnett to Avoid 3-1 ALCS Deficit
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-10-19T04:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/yankees-turn-to-struggling-pitcher-a-j-burnett-to-avoid-3-1-alcs-deficit.html
The New York Yankees’ chances of
avoiding a 3-1 hole in the American League Championship Series
will hinge in large part on  A.J. Burnett , who hasn’t pitched in
17 days and has one victory since the start of August.  Burnett starts Game 4 today at Yankee Stadium, where New
York lost 8-0 last night to trail the Texas Rangers 2-1 in the
best-of-seven Major League Baseball series.  It was the fourth time in franchise history the Yankees
lost consecutive games in an ALCS, and a defeat today would
leave them on the brink of elimination. Instead of pitching ace
 CC Sabathia  on short rest, the Yankees will start Burnett, whose
15 losses this season were a career high.  “I’ve had a rough one,” Burnett said before the Yankees’
Game 3 loss. “But I feel great. I feel like I’m where I need to
be. It’s been a long time since I’ve been on the mound, but I’m
sharp.”  Burnett, 32, said he’ll draw on his postseason performances
of last year, when he was one of the three starters used by the
Yankees during their run to a record 27th World Series
championship.  “My seasons have been similar,” said Burnett, who is in
the second season of a five-year, $82.5 million contract. “The
only difference is that I have three or four good games toward
the end of last year.”  Burnett was 10-15 with a 5.26 earned run average this
season after going 13-9 with a 4.04 ERA in 2009. He made five
postseason starts a year ago and his lone win was a pivotal one,
coming in Game 2 of the World Series after the Yankees lost the
opener to the Philadelphia Phillies.  ‘Believe in Him’  “We all know what A.J. can dial up and we believe in
him,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said yesterday before Game 3.  With seven games scheduled in nine days, Girardi said
before the ALCS that he’d use four starting pitchers. He didn’t
deviate from that plan after Game 3, when  Cliff Lee  held the
Yankees to two hits in eight scoreless innings.  Burnett said he’s excited about the chance to erase
memories of his performances since the beginning of August, a
span in which he went 1-7 with a 6.61 ERA in 12 starts. He was
dropped from the rotation for the three-game sweep of the
Minnesota Twins in the first round of the playoffs.  “From the work I’ve been doing, I’m in a pretty good
groove,” Burnett said. “I haven’t pitched in a long time, so I
haven’t struggled in a long time. I don’t worry about what’s
happened.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  