-- Typhoon Megi Strengthens on Path to Southern China
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   A a r o n   S h e l d r i c k
-- 2010-10-20T03:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-19/typhoon-megi-strengthens-to-category-4-storm-heads-toward-southern-china.html
Typhoon Megi intensified to a
Category 4 storm as it headed toward the southern coast of China,
regaining strength after leaving 11 people dead in the
Philippines.  Megi was about 650 kilometers (400 miles) south-southeast
of Hong Kong at 8 a.m. local time and moving northwest at 5.6
kilometers per hour, the U.S. Joint Typhoon Warning Center  said 
on its website today. The storm’s winds increased to 213
kilometers per hour from 185 kph yesterday, the center said.  Category 4 storms, the second-strongest on the five-step
Saffir-Simpson scale, are capable of “ catastrophic damage ,”
according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center. Megi is
forecast to bring heavy rain to China, where thousands have died
this year in flooding.  China’s southern provinces of Hainan, Guangdong and Fujian
are preparing relief measures for Megi, which may be the
strongest storm to hit southern China this year, the official
Xinhua News Agency  reported  today. The State Oceanic
Administration estimates waves may reach as high as 7 meters (23
feet) off the coast of Guangdong, the report said.  Megi is expected to cross the southern China coast about
235 kilometers east of Hong Kong early on Oct. 23, the U.S.
center’s tracking map shows. The storm winds are forecast to
strengthen to 232 kph later today, before weakening as it gets
closer to the coast.  Eleven people died in the Philippines as the storm, which
made landfall as a supertyphoon on Oct. 18, passed over Luzon,
the National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council  said 
on its website today. The storm, which had sustained winds of
about 270 kph before making landfall, destroyed 518 houses and
damaged 4,392 others, according to the statement.  Megi is estimated to have caused damaged to infrastructure,
agriculture, fisheries and schools worth 1.4 billion Philippine
pesos ($32 million), the statement said.  Storms in the northwest Pacific are designated as
supertyphoons when their wind speed exceeds 241 kph, according
to the  U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration .  Megi is the name of a catfish in South Korea, according to
the Hong Kong Observatory, which  lists  names assigned to storms
in the northwest Pacific. It’s the 15th storm of the season.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 ssbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Sheldrick at 
 asheldrick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash@bloomberg.net  