-- SEC short-sale rule ending; market move debated
-- By  Rachelle Younglai
-- Sun Aug 10, 2008 1:08pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/08/10/businesspro-sec-shortsale-dc-idUSN0927274020080810

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Short trading in 19 major U.S. 
financial stocks will revert to rules governing other shares on 
Wednesday as a Securities and Exchange Commission experiment 
against abusive short selling expires. 

  Market data company S3 Matching Technologies says short 
sales in the affected companies dropped after the emergency 
rule took effect but there is little consensus on how the 
market will react come Wednesday.  "My guess is that while this curtailed naked short selling 
in the short run, I suspect people found clever and 
sophisticated ways to work around (it) through derivatives," 
said John Welborn, an economist with investment firm The 
Haverford Group who studies short selling.  But Dylan Wetherill, founder of ShortSqueeze.com, a Web 
site that tracks short interest, said the emergency rule 
maintained strength and balance in the affected stocks.  "If the SEC removes the rule, it will give the short 
sellers the edge in the market they are looking for," he said.  Since the SEC's emergency rule went into effect July 21, 
short sellers have been required to pre-borrow stock in 
mortgage finance giants Freddie Mac FRE.N and Fannie Mae 
FNM.N and 17 Wall Street firms such as Goldman Sachs ( GS.N ) 
before executing a short trade.  Investors who bet on falling stock prices also have been 
required to deliver the securities by the settlement date -- 
obligations that forced Wall Street to change the way they 
traded those stocks.  When SEC Chairman Christopher Cox announced the emergency 
rule July 15, he said the agency aimed to stop unlawful 
manipulation of stock prices that threatened the stability of 
financial institutions.  Cox has said he wants to broaden the rule to include more 
stocks, but it was unclear how quickly the SEC would act. Now 
the markets are calmer and the SEC is not expected to propose a 
new rule by Tuesday.  "We will go back to the world as it was the day before Cox 
testified that the emergency order was coming," said Travis 
Larson, spokesman for the Securities Industry and Financial 
Markets Association, which represents broker dealers.  Al Greenberg, head options trader at broker-dealer BNY 
ConvergEX Group said "our strategies remained pretty much the 
same. What did change, however, was the level of compliance 
involved before making trades."  Short sellers arrange to borrow shares they consider 
overvalued and sell them in hopes of making a profit when the 
price drops. It is a legitimate form of trading that can 
prevent stocks from being overvalued, but often blamed when a 
company's shares fall.  The SEC's rule was aimed at cracking down on illegal naked 
short selling -- when an investor sells stock that has not yet 
been borrowed.  But the notion that the SEC was offering protection for a 
select group of companies upset various market players and 
prompted at least one lawmaker and the American Bankers 
Association to call on the agency to expand its list.  The hedge fund industry and short sellers also chided the 
SEC and said the rule would constrain normal market operations.  "Before we can make a trade that involves short stock in 
those affected names, we have to verify that the customer has 
pre-borrowed the stock and then get confirmation from the firm 
that lent the stock. This slows us down and eats up quite a bit 
of manpower that can be better used elsewhere," Greenberg said.  SIFMA's Larson agreed and said it was a painful process as 
Wall Street took a highly automated process and had to make it 
almost entirely manual for these 19 stocks.  Market makers were exempted from the pre-borrow requirement 
to ensure trading in the 19 stocks remained liquid.  (Reporting by Rachelle Younglai, with additional reporting 
by Doris Frankel in Chicago; Editing by  Tim Dobbyn )