-- UPDATE 3-NEC H1 net loss grows, cuts outlook
-- 
-- Tue Nov 21, 2006 7:01am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/21/tech-japan-nec-idUST14874320061121

 

  (Adds details, background, byline) 

  By  Mayumi Negishi TOKYO  Nov 21 (Reuters) - Japan's NEC Corp. ( 6701.T ) said on
Tuesday its net loss quintupled on sluggish mobile phone sales
at home and discounted tax assets, and cut its full-year
forecast by 64 percent after switching to Japanese accounting
rules.  NEC, which had to restate past earnings for the second time
this year and abandon four decades of using U.S. accounting
practices, lowered its full-year forecast to a group net profit
of 18 billion yen ($152.5 million).  This was down from a July forecast of 50 billion yen, which
was in line with market consensus, under U.S. accounting rules.  Costs at Japan's third-largest electronics conglomerate rose
after booking product development costs at the start of research
under Japanese rules, instead of at the time of mass production
under U.S. rules, NEC said.  "Without the accounting switch, you would have seen we were
on track with our forecasts for our core businesses," NEC
Executive Vice President Yasuo Matoi told reporters.  Conservative bookkeeping for deferred tax assets and
warranty costs contributed to the first-half net loss, but
operating profit rose 22.5 percent from the year-ago period on
improved sales of base stations at home and wireless access
systems overseas, he said.  But sales in mobile phones, one of the areas NEC aims to
turn around for a company-wide rebound, fell 25.4 percent,
causing operating losses in NEC's mobile segment to grow to 41
billion yen from 16.9 billion yen in the year-ago period.  NEC said operating losses in mobile phones would shrink 24
percent to 54 billion yen for the year to March, on better sales
in the second half at home and reduced operations overseas. It
further expects to break even in its electronics device segment,
as it provides software development support to chip unit NEC
Electronics Corp. ( 6723.T ).  The plan failed to convince Mizuho Investors Securities
analyst Yuichi Ishida.  "We want to see significant breakthroughs in the mobile
phone and chip businesses," said Ishida. "It's hard to see that
yet."  NEC, whose rivals include NAND flash memory producer Toshiba
Corp. ( 6502.T ) and computer services giant Fujitsu Ltd.
( 6702.T ), lost 7.43 billion yen in the six months ended Sept.
30, after switching to Japanese accounting standards.  That compared with a restated net loss of 1.47 billion yen
in the first half last year.  NEC decided on the switch after independent auditor Ernst &
Young ERNY.UL ShinNihon asked the company to reassess its IT
solutions maintenance services, causing it to miss the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission deadline to file its earnings
for the past business year.  NEC now awaits the results of a hearing with Nasdaq held
earlier this month, to keep the company's listing in the form of
American Depositary Receipts there, Matoi said.  NEC shares lost 21.5 percent in the six months to Sept. 30,
while Tokyo's electrical machinery index .IELEC.T lost 4.4
percent, after NEC spooked the market by announcing it had to
restate past earnings because it found an employee at a
subsidiary had fabricated business deals, inflating revenue for
five years.  Shares in NEC closed up 1.2 percent at 590 yen, while the
electrical machinery index closed up 0.12 percent prior to the
announcement.



