-- Acciona Becomes Cheapest New Energy Stock as Spain Plans Subsidy Cutbacks
-- Ben Sills
-- 2010-06-17T08:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/acciona-cheapest-in-new-energy-as-spain-plans-cutbacks-to-solar-subsidies.html

          
          
             Acciona SA , Spain’s second-biggest
wind farm owner, is the cheapest investment among 88 renewable-
energy stocks after the nation’s government said it’s planning
to reduce subsidized prices for clean power.  
 The stock trades at about 18.5 times estimated 2010
earnings per share, below the 22.5-times industry average, and
trails its peers on sales and enterprise value in worldwide
ranking by Bloomberg. Madrid-based Acciona tumbled 20 percent
this quarter after Industry Minister  Miguel Sebastian  said he
wants to cut rates paid to producers of clean energy by July 1.  
 With Spain’s government struggling to rein in the budget
deficit and end a recession, Sebastian said he needs to cap
power costs. Investors who dumped Spanish stocks amid a sell-off
in government bonds have overestimated the threat to Acciona and
put the stock at a discount, said  Miguel Llorente , who helps
manage 3.8 billion euros ($4.7 billion) for Capital at Work.  
 “The price decline doesn’t make any sense, and it’s a very
interesting buying opportunity,” Llorente, who owns Acciona
shares, said in an interview from Madrid. The stock’s drop “has
been more to do with the country than the company.”  
 Abengoa SA , the engineering company planning 13 Spanish
solar-thermal power plants, ranks third-cheapest on the global
value list of stocks based on Bloomberg data and analytics. It
trades at 8 times earnings, compared with the 22.5-times average
for the 88-member  WilderHill New Energy Global Innovation Index .  
 Analysts have 23 “buy” recommendations on Acciona, with
five “holds” and three “sells,” according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. For Abengoa, the “buy” ratings outnumber
“sells” 12-to-two, with five analysts suggesting “hold.”  
 ‘Even if They Cut’  
 “Acciona looks pretty cheap even if they do cut tariffs,”
said  Olivia Peters , an analyst in London at MF Global UK Ltd.
who forecast the stock will almost double to 115 euros a share
from 66.10 euros yesterday. “It’s a growth story.”  
 Officials at both Acciona and Abengoa declined to comment,
spokeswomen said. Abengoa’s shares have tumbled about 25 percent
April 14, compared with the 16 percent decline in the New Energy
index. The stock fell 0.9 percent today to 16.36 euros in
Madrid. Acciona dropped 1.6 percent to 65.03 euros.  
 Acciona, the world’s fourth-largest owner of wind farms
behind Iberdrola SA of Spain, Florida’s NextEra Energy Inc. and
China Guodian Corp., pledged in March to increase its pretax
profit four-fold through 2013 by investing 6.5 billion euros
worldwide, mostly in wind farms, solar plants and biomass
generators.  
 Easing Burden  
 Spain’s Sebastian has said he wants to cut subsidized rates
for renewable energy that range as high as 11 times the
wholesales power price. Executives and investors said they
originally expected the government to honor a 2007 law that
guarantees above-market rates for as long as 25 years for wind
and solar power.  
 The ministry is planning to announce changes to the tariff
structure that will reduce the revenue at existing photovoltaic
plants by 30 percent,  Tomas Diaz , a spokesman for the
Photovoltaic Industry Association said yesterday.  
 The slump has left Acciona’s stock price at about 57
percent of its 2010 sales per share, below the average 242
percent premium across the WilderHill New Energy index.  
 Japan Wind Development Co. , the wind developer that lost
2.28 billion yen ($25 million) in the year through March, ranked
second on a combination of the three measures of value.  
 It’s the worst performer in the New Energy index after the
company said on June 14 it would miss a filing deadline for its
annual securities report because it changed auditors. If it
fails to submit the report within a month of the June 30
deadline, the shares will be delisted, the Tokyo Stock Exchange
said in a statement. Calls to the Tokyo-based company seeking
further details yesterday and the day before weren’t returned.  
 For Related News and Information:
Click here to see the full equity search:  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Spain's industry minister Miguel Sebastian wants to cut rates paid to producers of clean energy. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
