-- Macquarie Loses Head of U.S. Equity Capital Markets
-- Michael J. Moore
-- 2010-06-17T00:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/macquarie-loses-head-of-u-s-equity-capital-markets-rossman-four-analysts.html

          
          
               Macquarie Group Ltd ., the Australian
bank that bought Fox-Pitt Kelton Cochran Caronia Waller LLC last
year, lost U.S. equity capital markets head Jim Rossman and at
least four stock-market analysts.  
 Besides Rossman, the departures included analysts  David Trone , Robert Stallard, Andrew Marquardt and John Pancari,
spokesman Stephen Yan confirmed. Rob Redmond, a vice chairman at
Macquarie Capital, will remain responsible for the firm’s equity,
debt and private capital businesses, Yan said.  
 Macquarie,  Australia ’s largest investment bank, paid $146.7
million in 2009 for Fox-Pitt, a 260-person firm that specialized
in the financial-services industry, to expand its U.S. research
and equities business. Sydney-based Macquarie, which has added
to its U.S. equities business this year, generated $1.35 billion
of revenue from the Americas for the year ended March 31, more
than triple that of a year earlier.  
 “In a business that size you always get churn, but staff
turnover is a risk when you buy financial-services businesses,”
said Sean Fenton, who helps manage about $1 billion at Tribeca
Investment Partners in Sydney. “People are key. That’s the
challenge for Macquarie going forward.”  
 Recent Additions  
 Trone, who covered investment banks and brokers, is joining  JMP Group Inc ., and Stallard, an aerospace analyst, is set to
join  RBC Capital Markets , people briefed on the matter said.
They declined to be named because the hires haven’t been made
public.  
 Victor Sack joined Macquarie from Bank of America Corp. as
a managing director in equity capital markets’ financial
institutions group, and Steve Mehos was recently promoted to
head of debt capital markets from head of leveraged finance, Yan
said.  
 Andrew Marquardt, who covered large commercial banks, left
Macquarie to join  Evercore Partners Inc ., two of the people said.  Cowen Group Inc . said in April it hired John Pancari from
Macquarie as an analyst covering shares of U.S. banks and
thrifts.  
 Macquarie has hired John Moran and Stephen Scinicariello as
senior bank analysts, according to an e-mailed statement. Moran,
who most recently worked at Value Architects, and Scinicariello,
who comes from BlackRock Inc., joined on June 15. Macquarie has
added 30 people to its U.S. equities business this year,
including research and sales and trading hires, Yan said.  
 ‘Very Confident’  
 “We’re very confident about the year ahead in our equities
platform,” Yan said. He said the firm covers almost 600 stocks,
and he cited a Greenwich Associates survey that said Macquarie
has climbed to 11th from 24th in rankings of research market
share.  
 Trone, Pancari and Marquardt had joined Macquarie as part
of the Fox-Pitt Kelton purchase. Rossman joined the firm from
HSBC Holdings Plc in 2008, and Stallard joined the same year
from Bank of America.  
 Trone, who left Macquarie in April, will join JMP after his
non-compete period expires, one of the people said. Trone will
help replace Michael Hecht, who left JMP to become a senior vice
president of corporate development at Charles Schwab Corp.,
which Hecht covered.  
 Charles Myers, Fox-Pitt Kelton’s head of equities, joined
Evercore in December to start its new cash-equities business.
Scott Barishaw and Ned Roseberry, both of whom came to Macquarie
from Fox-Pitt Kelton, followed Myers to Evercore earlier this
year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian walks past the logo of Macquarie Group Ltd. at the company's headquarters in Sydney. Photographer: Gillianne Tedder/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
