-- Mahindra Sued by Georgia Auto Dealer to Enforce Scorpio's Sales Agreement
-- Vipin V. Nair
-- 2010-06-16T10:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/mahindra-sued-by-georgia-auto-dealer-to-enforce-u-s-distribution-accord.html

          
          
             Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. , India’s
largest maker of sport-utility vehicles, was sued by a Georgia
dealer, which asked the Atlanta District Court to prohibit
Mahindra from sales in the U.S. through any other distributor.  
 Global Vehicles USA Inc. said in its June 14 lawsuit that
Mahindra breached a 2006 agreement by twice rejecting its
purchase orders for the  Mumbai-based company ’s vehicles. It also
asked the court to order Mahindra to perform its obligations
under the agreement.  
 Roma Balwani , a spokeswoman for Mahindra, said today the
lawsuit and a separate arbitration was without merit and would
be “vigorously contested.”  
 “Mahindra remains committed to launch its products in the
U.S. market,” she said in an e-mailed statement. The Indian
automaker’s plan to sell its  Scorpio  pick-up truck in the U.S.
has been held up by more than a year after delays in obtaining
technical clearance for its vehicles, a process known as
homologation.  
 Alpharetta, Georgia-based Global Vehicles said in its
lawsuit that  Mahindra  “in bad faith” engaged in protracted
contract negotiations for services relating to emission tests
prescribed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and
safety tests prescribed by the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration, or NHTSA.  
 “Under usual and customary circumstances, the process of
completing the EPA and NHTSA tests doesn’t exceed three years,”
according to the lawsuit. Mahindra’s negotiations for services
“significantly delayed the commencement of the tests and has
prolonged their completion date well beyond the three-year
period,” according to the lawsuit.  
 The case is Global Vehicles USA Inc. v. Mahindra & Mahindra
Ltd., U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia
Atlanta Division, 110.CV-1818.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vipin V. Nair  in Mumbai at 
 vnair122@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        