-- Ahmadinejad Vows `Retaliation' for Any Move Under New UN Atomic Sanctions
-- Ali Sheikholeslami
-- 2010-06-16T10:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/ahmadinejad-vows-retaliation-for-any-move-under-new-un-atomic-sanctions.html

          
          
             President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
threatened “retaliation” against any country that acts to
enforce the latest United Nations nuclear sanctions against
Iran, while the parliament in Tehran is considering a bill to
reduce UN inspections of its atomic facilities.  
 “Any country that would damage Iran’s interests because of
the sanctions will face Iran’s severe retaliation,” the Iranian
president said today in an address televised live by the state
broadcaster from the city of Shahrekord.  
 Parliament today formally recognized the “urgency” of the
proposed Nuclear Achievement Protection Bill. The legislation
would direct Iran’s nuclear officials to allow only the minimum
level of UN inspections required by the Non-Proliferation
Treaty, the state-run  Mehr  news agency said. Speaker  Ali Larijani  said Iran should increase the concentration of enriched
uranium it makes as a response to international pressure.  
 The UN Security Council on June 9 approved a fourth round
of sanctions against Iran in an effort to curb its nuclear
development. The measures include the authority to seize cargo
suspected of being used for Iranian nuclear or missile programs,
restrictions on financial transactions and a tighter arms
embargo.  
 ‘Will Set Conditions’  
 Ahmadinejad said today Iran is ready to resume talks on the
nuclear issue, while saying that “the conditions of dialogue
have changed.” Iran denounced the sanctions after they were
approved, with Ahmadinejad saying the measures should be
“thrown into the trash bin like a used tissue.”  
 “We will set conditions for dialogue in order to
discipline you,” Ahmadinejad said today, referring to the
Security Council member nations that approved the sanctions. The
vote was 12 to 2, with two abstentions. He said the Persian Gulf
country will announce its conditions “soon.”  
 Larijani urged the government to set the minimum level of
uranium enrichment at 20 percent. Iran has said it has enriched
a portion of its uranium to 20 percent, with the rest of its
stockpile still at lower levels.  
 While most nuclear weapons contain 90 percent enriched
uranium, concentrations as low as 20 percent can start the
atomic fission seen in nuclear weapons. Iran rejects allegations
by the U.S. and many of its allies that the nuclear program is
aimed at developing weapons.  
 ‘Illogical Pressures’  
 “Irresponsible and bullying countries should realize that
in line with the illogical pressures they impose, the level of
Iran’s enrichment will increase to meet its needs,” Larijani,
who formerly led Iran’s nuclear negotiations, said in a part of
the parliamentary session shown on state television.  
 Kazem Jalali , spokesman for the parliament’s National
Security and Foreign Policy Committee, said the Nuclear
Achievement Protection Bill will require the government to
retaliate against any inspection of Iranian ships, Mehr said.  
 “The Strait of Hormuz is the strategic point of the region
and the Islamic Republic will not hesitate in using the levers
of its power,” Jalali said.  
 The strait, which lies between the Persian Gulf and the
Gulf of Oman, is a transit route for 20 percent of the world’s
 oil , according to the U.S. Department of Energy.  
 As a result of the sanctions, parliament said last week
that Iran will consider downgrading ties with the UN’s
International Atomic Energy Agency, the organization that
carries out inspections.  
 Cutting  IAEA  access in Iran would be a blow to inspectors,
who last month negotiated enhanced access to a uranium
enrichment site in Natanz. The agency said May 31 that it won
the right to add more cameras, increase atomic-material
accounting and conduct surprise inspections at the site, where
Iran has produced 5.7 kilograms (12.6 pounds) of 20 percent
enriched uranium.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Iran's president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
