-- AIDS Threat From Breastfeeding Declines With Treatment in Study
-- Tom Randall
-- 2010-06-16T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/aids-threat-from-breastfeeding-thwarted-by-triple-drug-treatment-in-study.html

          
          
             AIDS transmission to babies was
blocked in 99 percent of cases when breastfeeding mothers
infected with the HIV virus took triple-drug combinations,
according to a Harvard University study released today.  
 Virus transmission fell to 1.1 percent when mothers were
assigned to one of three combination regimens initiated before
birth and continued through six months of pregnancy, according
to the study conducted in Botswana and published in the  New
England Journal of Medicine . Without the drugs, the infection
rate would be at least 25 percent, the study’s authors reported.  
 About 430,000 children worldwide are infected with HIV each
year, and more than 90 percent of such infections occur in sub-
Saharan Africa, a region where breast-feeding is especially
important for infant survival, according to a separate editorial
in the journal. The study’s three drug regimens, made by
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc ,  Abbott Laboratories  and  Boehringer
Ingelheim  GmbH, were found similarly effective.  
 “Until now, HIV-infected mothers in Africa were faced with
a choice between breastfeeding and a high risk of infecting
their children with HIV, or using formula and risking high
infant morbidity and mortality,” said  Max Essex , senior author
of the study and chair of the AIDS Initiative at the Harvard
School of Public Health in Boston, in an e-mailed statement.
“This study provides a more tolerable solution.”  
 The research was conducted by the Harvard School of Public
Health and the government of  Botswana . It was funded in part by
U.S. grants.  
 Malawi Study  
 A separate study in the journal today, conducted in Malawi,
found benefits in giving antiretroviral drugs to either the
mother or infant during breastfeeding. The Malawi study compared
the six-month treatments with a one-week regimen initiated just
before birth. The one-week program was significantly less
effective, even among mothers who didn’t need medicine for their
own health because their virus levels were low.  
 Influenced by early results from the Botswana study, the
 World Health Organization  now recommends that mothers or infants
receive antiretroviral treatment throughout breastfeeding,
according to the Harvard statement. Botswana is planning a new
program to provide combination therapies to all pregnant women
with HIV, the researchers said.  
 Glaxo is based in London; Boehringer is a closely held
company based in Ingelheim, Germany; and Abbott is based in
Abbott Park, Illinois.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        