-- Pilots Back UAL, Continental Merger With Worker Aid
-- John Hughes
-- 2010-06-16T20:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/airline-pilots-back-ual-continental-merger-with-request-for-worker-pledge.html

          
          
             United Airlines ’ proposed merger
with  Continental Airlines Inc.  deserves support, provided the
companies protect wages and jobs of their workers, the carriers’
pilot union chiefs told lawmakers.  
 “If done correctly, this merger can help resurrect an
industry that is clearly failing,”  Jay Pierce , who leads the
Air Line Pilots Association branch at Continental, told the
House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee aviation panel
today.  
 Support from employee unions, particularly representing
pilots, is a key step for United parent  UAL Corp.  in its plan to
merge with Houston-based Continental and create the world’s
largest airline. Plans were announced May 3 to combine the
third- and fourth-biggest carriers in a stock swap valued at
more than $3 billion.  
 “How this merger is handled will determine whether it is
change for the better,” said  Wendy Morse , who leads United’s
branch of the union. “We would stand in opposition to this
merger if it is to be used as a tool to continue the outsourcing
of American jobs.”  
 The carriers’ pilot unions agreed on a framework for talks
with management that requires a joint labor agreement before
they combine union seniority lists, Pierce said in an interview
last month. The list helps to determine pilots’ pay, benefits
and the planes and routes they fly.  
 ‘Hand-to-Mouth’  
 Continental Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Smisek , who will
retain the title at the merged carrier, told the panel he hopes
to soon reach agreements with all labor groups and said
combination is needed to help the carriers compete.  
 “We are eking out a hand-to-mouth existence” as a stand-
alone carrier, Smisek said. That is “not a future I want for my
employees.”  
 United CEO  Glenn Tilton  said “serial bankruptcies” cannot
be a good industry strategy and that the status quo is
“unacceptable.”  
 Unified labor contracts let merged airlines operate more
efficiently. The role of labor unions led  Delta Air Lines Inc. 
to start bargaining with pilots before unveiling a deal to buy
Northwest Airlines Corp. in 2008.  
 The Delta-Northwest merger is “the template for success,”
Pierce said. Union support and the success of United-Continental
depends on “immediate and contractual assurances” of adequate
wages, retirement, work rules and job protections, he said.  
 Pierce told the panel he has “cautious optimism” about
the success of talks based on discussions so far.  
 Airline Pilots  
 Continental has 4,600 pilots and 147 on furlough, while
United has 6,500 and 1,437 who have been laid off, according to
the carriers’ unions.  
 Conditions should be imposed on the carriers “to protect
jobs and competition,” Representative  Hank Johnson , a Georgia
Democrat, said today at a House Judiciary Committee hearing on
the merger.  
 “Those of us from Texas worry about jobs,” Republican
Representative  Lamar Smith  told Smisek, who has said positions
would be reduced at Continental’s Houston headquarters. The new
carrier will be based in Chicago.  
 Smisek said it is too soon to estimate the number of jobs
to be cut, though “Houston will be better off in the long
run.”  
 At the aviation panel hearing, Representative  Frank LoBiondo , a New Jersey Republican, said the merger will
strengthen the carriers and aid their workers. “Do we want to
see our employees go by the wayside?” he asked.  
 Representative  James Oberstar , a Minnesota Democrat and
chairman of the full committee, told the carriers they “hate
competition” and that the merger “is a terrible mistake to the
purpose of the deregulation” of the airlines three decades ago.  
 The hearings were the first opportunities for labor groups
to weigh in on the transaction that the carriers hope to
complete this year.  
 The Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee
has scheduled a hearing on the merger tomorrow.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The carriers’ pilot unions agreed on a framework for talks  
                       
                         
                           Matthew Staver/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A Continental jet and a United Airlines jet taxi past one another at the Denver International Airport. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A Continental jet and a United Airlines jet taxi past one another at the Denver International Airport. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
