-- Natural-Gas Price Spreads Cause New Amaranth Speculation: Energy Markets
-- Stephen Voss
-- 2010-06-17T16:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/amaranth-concerns-roil-natural-gas-market-hit-by-rising-spreads-inventory.html

          
          
             Trading patterns in natural-gas
futures are fanning speculation of a repeat of the collapse four
years ago of U.S. hedge fund Amaranth Advisors LLC.  
 The premium for futures expiring in March 2011 over the
April 2011 contract surged to 43.3 cents per million British
thermal units June 15 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the
highest level since Feb. 19. The spread was 24.8 cents per
million Btu as recently as the end of last week, before jumping
more than 50 percent on June 14. The rally came even as U.S.
 inventories  are at their highest level for this time of year
since at least 1993, when the government began collecting data.  
 “This is peculiar behavior given that supplies are
currently building at a comfortable pace,”  Stephen Schork ,
president of consultant Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
Pennsylvania, wrote in a report yesterday. “We haven’t seen
these particular spreads behave in such a manner since a
prominent natural-gas trader morphed a $9 billion hedge fund,
Amaranth, into a $3 billion fund in August 2006.”  
 Greenwich, Connecticut-based Amaranth collapsed after
losing about $6.6 billion on wrong-way trades in natural-gas
futures. It had controlled more than half of the U.S. market for
the commodity before it failed, according to a Senate report
from June 2007. Amaranth agreed last August to pay $7.5 million
to settle allegations from U.S. regulators that it tried to
manipulate the market for natural-gas futures.  
 Winter-Spring Bridge  
 The March-April 2011 spread, a benchmark relationship
because it covers the period from winter to spring, surged as
much as 134 percent this month, according to data from Nymex. An
increase of the March premium over April may signal speculators
are anticipating tighter winter supplies, which would drive
prices higher.  
 “The rally of the spread in such a short period of time
indicates that something besides fundamental data is driving it
higher,” said  Carl Neill , an energy analyst at Risk Management
Inc. in Chicago. “Some big specs were really on the wrong
side.”  
 Trading volume for the spread jumped to more than 8,000
contracts on both June 14 and June 15, compared with an average
2,604 lots last week, Nymex data show.  
 Gas stockpiles in the U.S. rose 87 billion cubic feet in
the week ended June 11 to 2.543 trillion cubic feet, the Energy
Department said today. The total was 14 percent higher than the
five-year average for that time of year.  
 Traders may also be anticipating the U.S. moratorium on
offshore drilling in the Gulf of Mexico following the Deepwater
Horizon rig explosion will cut gas supplies, Schork said in a
telephone interview yesterday. Alternatively, it may be the
result of a single speculator taking a larger-than-normal
position contrary to the consensus, he said.  
 Wrong-Bet Possibility  
 “As this trade continues to decouple, then Deepwater
Horizon is indeed a paradigm shift,” Schork said. If the spread
reverts, “then the fundamentals haven’t changed and we had a
lot of people making a bet and it was a wrong bet,” he said.  
 In September 2006, when Amaranth had to reverse its trades,
the March-April spread tumbled to as low as 42 cents per million
Btu from as high as $2.51 in August. At the time, the spread
measured the difference between March 2007 and April 2007
prices.  
 Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profit from
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  
 Nymex natural gas for July delivery rose 4.1 cents, or 0.8
percent, to trade at $5.019 per million Btu at 12:03 p.m. after
tumbling 21.1 cents yesterday. Front-month gas futures have
declined 9.9 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Kwiatkowski  in London at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Voss  in London at 
 sev@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A natural gas wellhead stands on an Alta Resources LLC drill site near Montrose, Pennsylvania. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
