-- America Movil, Infonavit Paying Lowest Mexican Peso Yields in 19 Months
-- Jonathan Roeder
-- 2010-06-16T20:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/america-movil-infonavit-paying-lowest-mexican-peso-yields-in-19-months.html

          
          
             Mexican companies from  America Movil
SAB  to housing agency  Infonavit  are poised to pay the lowest
yields relative to the government in 19 months as slowing
inflation fuels demand from pension funds.  
 The yield gap between AAA-rated debt and the 28-day
interbank lending rate, known as the  TIIE , shrank to 50 basis
points, or 0.50 percentage point, last week, the least since
November 2008, said  Arnulfo Rodriguez , head of fixed-income
research at Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit in Mexico City. The
spread, based on an index compiled by the bank, may narrow to 30
basis points by the end of the year, he said.  
 “This is a sustained drop in spreads, and it’s calling
attention to Mexican peso bonds,” Rodriguez said. “I wouldn’t
be surprised if demand for these bonds awoke among international
investors.”  
 Borrowing costs are dropping after consumer prices rose
3.92 percent in May from a year earlier, the first time
inflation was within the central bank’s 4 percent target in five
months. Pension funds may invest about 4 billion pesos ($318
million) in bonds and stocks this month, according to Rodriguez.  
 Infonavit sold 4.2 billion pesos of bonds today, the Mexico
City-based company said in an e-mailed statement. Fovissste,
Mexico’s second-largest mortgage originator, will issue as much
as 6 billion pesos of bonds on June 28, said company spokesman
 David Gomez  in Mexico City.  
 Bond Rally  
 America Movil, Latin America’s largest wireless carrier,
plans to sell up to 35 billion pesos of bonds as part of a four-
year program, according to a company filing last week. America
Movil may issue more bonds this year after selling $5.6 billion
of long-term debt, including a 14.9 billion peso offering that
was the country’s biggest ever by a company, said Chief
Financial Officer  Carlos Garcia Moreno .  
 Conditions to sell local debt are the best in at least
three years, he said in a telephone interview from Mexico City.  
 Infonavit, Fovissste and America Movil, which are all based
in Mexico City, have local AAA ratings from Standard & Poor’s.  
 Mexican companies may sell about 180 billion pesos of bonds
in the local market this year, 6.5 percent more than last year,
Rodriguez said.  
 A rally in Mexican government bonds that has pushed yields
to a record low is also helping to bring down companies’
borrowing costs. The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent bond due in
2024 fell to 7.21 percent on June 11, the lowest level since the
security was issued in January 2005. Yields have tumbled 100
basis points this year, according to Banco Santander SA.  
 Mexico will become the first in Latin America to enter
Citigroup Inc.’s World Government Bond Index in October.  
 ‘Great Acceptance’  
 “The truth is, in these last couple months, we’ve seen a
great acceptance worldwide for debt in pesos,” said  Manuel Galvan , a fixed-income analyst for financial consulting firm
Metanalisis SA in Mexico City.  
 Mexico’s peso is up 3.8 percent against the U.S. dollar
this year, the best performance among the 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  
 The decline in bond yields is in part driven by increased
demand from investors seeking safer debt amid a deepening debt
crisis in Europe,  Manuel Sanchez , deputy governor for Mexico’s
central bank, said in an interview on June 10.  
 “The challenges of fiscal consolidation in the European
countries give emerging markets a certain advantage,” he said.
“Within these countries, Mexico could stand out right now given
the fiscal measures it put forth.”  
 President  Felipe Calderon  carried out spending cuts and tax
increases totaling more than $10 billion last year to plug a
budget deficit that swelled as the global recession and
declining oil output curbed tax revenue.  
 Budget Deficits  
 The country’s budget gap including investment in state-
owned oil company Petroleos Mexicanos will be equal to 2.8
percent of gross domestic product this year, compared with 2.1
percent in 2009. Mexico, whose $1.09 trillion economy is the
second-biggest in Latin America, had a deficit of 274.5 billion
pesos last year, the Finance Ministry said Jan. 29.  
 Spain, which has the third-highest deficit of any European
Union nation, is seeking to reduce its budget gap to 9.3 percent
of GDP this year from 11.2 percent in 2009. Portugal is pledging
to shrink its deficit to 7.3 percent of GDP in 2010 from 9.4
percent last year.  
 Infonavit’s bonds sold today with a coupon of 3.9 percent
for those with an average life of 2.2 years, and 5.05 percent
for the ones with an average life of 5.9 years.  
 Fovissste’s offering will be the largest by the agency,
which provides government workers with subsidized mortgage
loans.  
 Fovissste and Infonavit “want to take advantage of this
appetite to get on this train, and they’re surely going to be
able to place debt at competitive prices,” Galvan said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     America Movil SAB Carlos chief financial officer Garcia Moreno. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
