-- Canada Stocks Gain as Gold Producers Rise in Flight to Safety; Teck Falls
-- Matt Walcoff
-- 2010-06-17T21:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/armtec-infrastructure-income-fund-cibc-cenovus-canada-equity-preview.html

          
          
             Canadian stocks  advanced for a sixth
day as investors bought gold producers in a flight to safety
after an increase in U.S. jobless claims fueled concern that the
global economic recovery may slow.  
 Barrick Gold Corp., the world’s largest gold producer,
gained 4 percent as the metal advanced the most in eight days.
Teck Resources Ltd., Canada’s biggest producer of base metals,
lost 2.1 percent as copper had its biggest drop in the same
period.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  rose 24.92
points, or 0.2 percent, to a one-month high of 11,945.97. The
index’s streak of gains is the longest in almost two months for
the Canadian stock benchmark.  
 “Over the last 25 years, out of all the major crises,
we’ve never had, at this point, this kind of anemic recovery,”
said  Robert “Hap” Sneddon , president of money manager
CastleMoore Inc. in Oakville, Ontario, and vice president of the
Canadian Society of Technical Analysts. “When you’ve got
deflation possibly happening, gold tends to rise during
deflationary environments.”  
 The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity Price Index had gained
eight straight days, the longest rally in three years, as oil
and copper climbed. The index slipped 0.3 percent today as the
U.S. Labor Department said consumer prices fell for a second
straight month in May. Energy and raw-materials companies make
up 46 percent of Canadian stocks by market value.  
 Record Surge  
 Gold advanced 1.5 percent to a record $1,248.70 an ounce in
New York. The metal has surged 14 percent this year as investors
have sought a haven on concern that European deficits would lead
to sovereign debt defaults.  
 Barrick increased 4 percent to C$46.10. Kinross Gold Corp.,
Canada’s  third-largest  gold producer, rallied 4.4 percent to
C$18.91. Agnico-Eagle Mines, the No. 4 Canadian gold producer by
market value, climbed 2.8 percent to C$65.44.  
 Goldcorp Inc., Canada’s second-biggest gold-mining company,
rose 2.2 percent to C$46.15. Guatemala’s vice president said his
government hasn’t found evidence of environmental damage or
human-rights violations at the company’s Marlin mine. The Inter-
American Commission on Human Rights has called for a halt to
operations at the request of indigenous Maya residents.  
 Semafo Inc., a gold producer with operations in Africa,
soared 7.4 percent to a record C$8.47 after making public a new
discovery in Burkina Faso. The company’s shares have surged
fourfold in the past year.  
 Labor Disruption  
 Gammon Gold Inc., which mines in Mexico, led losses in the
S&P/TSX with an 9.3 percent plunge to C$7.04 after announcing an
indefinite shutdown of its El Cubo mine. The company said
“illegal labor disruptions” necessitated the firing of 397
unionized workers.  
 Other precious metals also gained, with silver advancing
1.8 percent to a four-week high. Pan American Silver Corp.
increased 4.8 percent to C$27.48.  
 Base metal and energy producers fell after the U.S. Labor
Department reported an unexpected increase in weekly first-time
unemployment claims to a one-month high. Most of the 42
economists in a  Bloomberg survey  had forecast a decrease.  
 Wholesale sales in Canada dropped 0.3 percent in April,
Statistics Canada said. This too was contrary to the estimates
of most economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Copper, Oil Slump  
 Teck decreased 2.1 percent to C$35.43 as copper futures
slumped 3 percent. Talisman Energy Inc., an oil and gas producer
with operations in North America, the North Sea and Indonesia,
slipped 2.1 percent to C$17.67 as crude oil retreated for the
first time this week. Manulife Financial Corp., the country’s
biggest insurer, fell 1.5 percent to C$16.64 as financial stocks
dropped.  
 EnCana Corp., Canada’s biggest natural gas producer,
climbed 1.4 percent to C$35.61 as the fuel rose 3.7 percent. The
U.S. Energy Department reported a smaller increase in natural
gas inventories than most economists had forecast.  
 To contact the reporter on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        