-- Asia Stocks Gain a 5th Day; Metals, Oil Rise
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-06-16T07:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/asia-stocks-gain-a-5th-day-metals-oil-rise.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  rose for a fifth day
and metals advanced as economic reports added to optimism a U.S.
recovery will support global growth.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  climbed 1.1 percent to 115.64
at 4 p.m. in Tokyo, set for the highest close since May 18.
Advancers led decliners 5 to 1. The Stoxx Europe 600 increased
0.5 percent to 255.60 at 8 a.m. in London. Copper headed for its
longest winning streak in 11 months and oil traded near a one-
month high.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  futures fell 0.2 percent.  
 Economists said a report today will show U.S. industrial
production expanded in May by the most in four months, adding to
evidence the global recovery may shrug off Europe’s debt crisis.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said yesterday its
 manufacturing gauge  advanced for an 11th month, helping propel
the S&P 500 index up 2.4 percent yesterday.  
 “Stocks seem to have become more resilient after taking
into account a lot of negative factors,” said  Masahide Tanaka ,
a senior strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co.
“Risk sentiment is improving as economies in the U.S. and China
seem to be holding steady, easing concern about a double dip.”  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 1.8 percent, the
biggest increase among equity benchmarks in the Asia-Pacific
region. South Korea’s Kospi Index advanced 0.9 percent and
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 gained 1.1 percent. Markets in Hong Kong,
China and Taiwan are closed today for a holiday.  
 Relative Value  
 MSCI’s Asian gauge has slumped more than 10 percent from
its 52-week high on April 15 as swelling budget deficits
prompted credit downgrades of Greece, Spain and Portugal. The
retreat has driven down the average price of shares in the gauge
to 14.8 times  estimated earnings . The ratio sank to 13.8 times
on May 18, the lowest level since December 2008.  
 Toyota Motor Corp. , which gets about 28 percent of sales
from North America, increased 1.2 percent in Tokyo. Samsung
Electronics Co., a chipmaker that reaps 20 percent of revenue in
America, rose 2.6 percent in Seoul. Nintendo Co. jumped 5.2
percent after it introduced a handheld 3-D video-game player.  
 Companies that produce materials led gains among the  MSCI 
gauge’s 10 industry groups.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
largest mining company, rose 2.2 percent in Sydney and was the
biggest contributor to the index’s increase.  Rio Tinto Group ,
the world’s third-ranked mining company, increased 2.8 percent.
Mitsubishi Corp., which gets 40 percent of sales from
commodities, gained 2.3 percent in Tokyo.  
 Copper’s Winning Streak  
 Copper advanced for a seventh day, the longest streak since
July 2009. Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange
gained as much as 1.4 percent to $6,770 a metric ton. Among
other LME-traded metals, aluminum rose 1.2 percent to $2,037 a
ton, zinc increased 1.2 percent to $1,861.50 a ton and nickel
added 1.1 percent to $20,440 a ton.  
 “Market worries about some of the more pessimistic
economic scenarios appear to have abated,”  David Moore ,
commodity strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia, wrote in
a report today. “Strong gains on international equity markets
imparted a positive spin on base metal market sentiment.”  
 Crude oil traded near a one-month high in New York at
$76.92 a barrel, after jumping 2.4 percent yesterday as gains in
U.S. equities restored confidence that fuel demand will increase.  
 “The indexes in the U.S. are getting better so everyone is
thinking that crude oil demand will increase,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a manager for commodity derivative sales at broker
Newedge in Tokyo. “Oil is trading in a range. Up or down
depends on the financial markets so one has to see the movements
of the euro and the stock markets.”  
 Takeover Target  
 Woori Finance Holdings Co.  advanced 3.3 percent after it
was named as a potential takeover target by the chairman-nominee
at KB Financial Group Inc., owner of the nation’s biggest lender.
 Euh Yoon Dae , nominated as chairman of KB Financial yesterday,
discussed potential bids for companies including Woori with a
panel that recommended him to the post, committee head Lim Suk
Sig said.  
 South Korea’s won rose 1.4 percent to 1,210.75 per dollar,
reaching its highest level in almost two weeks, as overseas
investors added to their  holdings  of Korean shares for a fourth
day. The Philippine peso climbed 0.6 percent to 46.156 per
dollar as the central bank said overseas remittances increased
5.4 percent in April from a year earlier.  
 “We’re seeing some positive signs from Europe, but we’re
still being cautious,” said  Jae Sung Park , a currency dealer at
Woori Investment & Securities. It will be hard for the won to
trade below 1,200 against the dollar today “because the
authorities will want to intervene at that level.”  
 Industrial Output  
 Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities increased 0.9
percent in May, the most since January, after a 0.8 percent gain
in April, according to a Bloomberg News survey before the
Federal Reserve report today. The Fed Bank of New York said
yesterday its Empire State Index of manufacturing in the region
rose to 19.57 in June from 19.11 the previous month.  
 The cost of protecting Asia-Pacific corporate and sovereign
bonds from non-payment fell, according to traders of credit-
default swaps. The Markit iTraxx Australia index dropped 9 basis
points to 127 basis points, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.
The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade borrowers
outside Japan declined 8 basis points to 130 basis points, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rocky Swift  in Tokyo at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian walks past an electronic board outside a securities firm in Tokyo. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
