-- Asian Nations Impose Curbs in Struggle to Slow Expanding Property Bubbles
-- Malcolm Scott
-- 2010-06-17T09:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/asian-nations-impose-curbs-in-struggle-to-slow-expanding-property-bubbles.html

          
          
             From Shanghai to Singapore, policy
makers are struggling in their efforts to curb property bubbles
that threaten to derail the world’s fastest-growing region.  
 In China, home prices are surging at a record pace even
after authorities set price ceilings, demanded higher deposits,
and limited second-home purchases. In Hong Kong, where the
government has pledged to release more land to cool prices, a
site auctioned on June 8 fetched the most since the market peak
of 1997. It’s a similar story in Singapore and Taiwan as prices
defy cooling measures.  
 “Governments allow the property bubble to get so big and
then try to use administrative measures to keep out
speculators,” said  Andy Xie , former Morgan Stanley chief
economist for Asia-Pacific and now a private economist based in
Shanghai. “It creates the risk of a very hard landing. The
right thing to do is raise interest rates.”  
 The International Monetary Fund has cautioned that Asia’s
booming home prices “pose risks to financial stability.”
Governments in the region are turning to market curbs rather
than raising interest rates -- at 20-year lows in some places --
in an effort to avert a U.S.-style property crash. While real
estate prices have yet to respond, equity investors have: a
 Bloomberg index  of 192 Asia-Pacific real estate stocks has lost
15 percent in 2010 versus a 1.5 percent gain for its U.S. peer.  
 “The property bubbles in Asia right now are reminiscent of
the U.S. before the subprime crisis because they are both
fuelled by debt when interest rates are too low,” Xie said.  
 Lending Binge  
 Hong Kong had its first signal this week of a possible turn
in the market, when billionaire  Lee Shau-kee ’s Henderson Land
Development Co. announced that sales of 20 luxury apartments had
been canceled, including a unit that would have set a world
record price of HK$88,000 ($11,300) per square foot. Henderson
shares have fallen 20 percent this year, the worst performance
in the seven-stock Hang Seng Property Index. They fell as much
as 4.4 percent today.  
 China, while keeping interest rates steady, has restricted
pre-sales by developers, curbed loans for third-home purchases,
raised minimum mortgage rates, and tightened down-payment
requirements for second-home purchases. The government is trying
to peel back the effects of a $586 billion stimulus plan and
$1.4 trillion lending binge that revived economic growth and
sparked record property price increases.  
 China’s banking regulator this week said it sees growing
credit risks in the nation’s real-estate industry and warned of
increasing pressure from non-performing loans.  
 Cut Estimates  
 Risks associated with home mortgages are growing and a
“chain effect” may reappear in real-estate development loans,
the  China Banking Regulatory Commission  said in its annual
report published on its website June 15.  
 While prices have yet to drop, sales volumes have. Property
sales in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen fell as much as 70
percent in May. China Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest publicly
traded property developer, said its sales fell 20 percent in May
from a year earlier. Guangzhou R&F Properties Co.’s contracted
sales last month shrank 48 percent.  
 Property prices rose 12.4 percent in May, compared with a
record 12.8 percent increase in April, from a year earlier,
indicating price declines are not keeping pace with the drop in
transactions. The value of sales last month slid 25 percent from
April. The data series, covering 70 cities, began in 2005.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts on June 8 cut their profit
estimates for China’s developers by an average 9 percent in 2010
and 11 percent in 2011 on a “substantial slowdown” in sales.  
 The China  Se Shang’s Property Index  has tumbled 28 percent
this year, with 32 of 34 members  declining , led by Shanghai New
Huangpu Real Estate Co. and Poly Real Estate Group Co.  
 ‘Regulatory Measures’  
 Hong Kong may increase sales taxes on some properties, is
accelerating land auctions, and is scrutinizing developers’
sales techniques. Singapore plans to increase the supply of land
for housing, has barred interest-only mortgages for uncompleted
homes, and levied a seller’s stamp duty on some properties.  
 Taiwan’s financial regulator asked the bankers’ association
to tighten lending procedures, while two state-owned lenders
have raised mortgage rates and cut the amount of loans for
buyers of luxury homes and property investors. Interest rates on
the island have been at a record low since February 2009.  
 “The regulatory measures are not aiming to crash the whole
property market, they are aiming to cool the speculative end,”
said  Khiem Do , Hong Kong-based head of multiasset strategy at
Baring Asset Management (Asia) Ltd., which oversees $11 billion.
Do is underweight Asian property in his funds and is looking to
buy back into the worst hit Chinese property stocks.  
 Ability to Pay  
 Home prices in Hong Kong have risen almost 40 percent from
the beginning of 2009, driven by  interest rates  at 20-year lows,
lagging supply growth and buying from rich mainland Chinese. The
risk of a property bubble remained in the city amid liquidity
and low interest rates,  Norman Chan , chief executive of the Hong
Kong Monetary Authority, said May 20.  
 Potential home purchasers should consider their ability to
pay before taking out mortgages, Financial Secretary  John Tsang 
said June 9, a day after a residential site sold at a public
auction for HK$10.9 billion ($1.4 billion), beating estimates.  
 In Taipei, home prices climbed 3.4 percent in May from
April, Sinyi Realty Co., the biggest housing broker in Taiwan,
said May 31. They have risen 29 percent to a record since
September 2008 when the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
deepened the global credit crisis.  
 Singapore Sales  
 Private residential sales in Singapore rose to a nine-month
high of 2,208 in April, the Urban Redevelopment Authority said,
the highest since July 2009, showing the “resilience” of
demand for new homes even after the government curbs, Li Hiaw Ho,
executive director of CB Richard Ellis Research, said then.
Sales dropped to 1,078 units in May.  
 There continues to be concerns over “excessive” asset-
price inflation in emerging Asia, the Singapore government said
May 20. If asset prices correct too sharply in China, it could
have “negative spillover” effects on regional economies,  Ravi Menon , permanent secretary at the Singapore trade ministry, told
reporters the same day.  
 The failure to raise rates may allow the bubble to keep
swelling, said Stephen  Halmarick , Sydney-based head of
investment-markets research at Colonial First State Global Asset
Management, which manages about $135 billion.  
 “The lesson of subprime is that, if you let asset prices
go too far for too long, the correction can be very damaging,”
he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
 Malcolm  Scott in Sydney at 
 Mscott23@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A worker labors on a construction site for a residential development in Shanghai. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
