-- Asian Currencies Advance, Led by Korea's Won, on Global Recovery Outlook
-- Yumi Teso
-- 2010-06-16T04:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/asian-currencies-advance-led-by-korea-s-won-on-global-recovery-outlook.html

          
          
             Asian currencies advanced, led by
South Korea’s won, on optimism data this week will show the
global economy is improving, boosting the appetite for emerging-
market assets.  
 The won rose to its highest level in almost two weeks as
the MSCI Asia Pacific  Index  of shares climbed for a fifth day.
The Philippines yesterday revised its growth target to as much
as 6 percent from 3.6 percent earlier. Singapore’s non-oil
domestic exports gained for a seventh month in May, economists
predicted before a government report due tomorrow. Data today
will show industrial output in the U.S. expanded in May at the
fastest pace in four months, according to a Bloomberg survey.  
 “As long as the U.S. economy expands, that’s going to
improve global sentiment a lot,” said  Nalin Chutchotitham , an
analyst at Kasikornbank Pcl in Bangkok. “When the appetite for
riskier assets improves, regional currencies strengthen too.”  
 The won strengthened 1.3 percent to 1,211.40 per dollar as
of 1:02 p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Philippine peso climbed 0.5 percent to 46.158, and the Thai
baht gained 0.1 percent to 32.40.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index  of shares rose 1.2 percent and
the Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index was at a two-week high.
The euro yesterday reached a two-week high of $1.2350, having
rebounded from a four-year low of $1.1877 reached on June 7.  
 Revised Growth Target  
 The won’s advance came as overseas investors added to their
holdings of Korean shares for a fourth day.  
 “We’re seeing some positive signs from Europe, but we’re
still being cautious,” said  Jae Sung Park , a currency dealer at
Woori Investment & Securities. “It will be hard for the
exchange rate to move below 1,200 today because the authorities
will want to intervene at that level.”  
 Park said he will be watching the direction of the Kospi
and the euro and predicted the won will trade between 1,200 and
1,218 per dollar. The  Kospi  rose 1 percent.  
 The S&P 500 yesterday climbed 2.4 percent to a four-week
high as the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index showed manufacturing expanded for an 11th month.  
 Industrial output in the U.S. probably grew 0.9 percent
after rising 0.8 percent in April, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Singapore’s non-oil domestic  exports  climbed 25.7 percent
last month after increasing 29.4 percent in April, according to
a separate survey.  
 The Philippine peso advanced to its highest level in four
weeks after the government raised its revised economic-growth
target. The central bank will release data on remittances from
overseas workers for April later today.  
 ‘Sense of Confidence’  
 The Philippine central bank said last month that money sent
home by overseas citizens increased 5.6 percent from a year
earlier to $1.55 billion in March. Gross international reserves
climbed to a record $47.7 billion in May, it reported last week.  
 “The contribution of overseas  remittances  has been
great,” said  Joey Cuyegkeng , a Manila-based economist at ING
Groep NV, the largest Dutch financial services company. “It
gives a sense of confidence that debt will be serviced properly
because of such international reserve levels.”  
 The peso reached 46.088 per dollar, the strongest level
since May 20. ING has raised its year-end forecast for the peso
to 44 per dollar from 45.50.  
 Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah rose 0.1 percent to 9,160 per
dollar and Malaysia’s ringgit appreciated 0.1 percent to 3.2568.
Financial markets in China, Taiwan and Hong Kong are shut today
for a public holiday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        