-- Asian Stocks Reach 4-Week High on Growth
-- Masaki Kondo
-- 2010-06-16T09:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/asian-stocks-advance-for-fifth-day-led-by-oil-shares-bhp-nintendo-climb.html

          
          
             Asian  stocks  rose to a four-week
high after a report showing growth in New York manufacturing
boosted confidence that a recovery in world’s biggest economy
will increase corporate earnings.  
 Toyota Motor Corp. , a carmaker that gets about 28 percent
of its sales from North America, gained 1.2 percent in Tokyo.
 BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s biggest mining company, climbed
2.2 percent in Sydney after commodity prices advanced. Samsung
Electronics Co., Asia’s largest chipmaker, rose 2.6 percent in
Seoul. Nintendo Co. jumped 5.2 percent in Osaka, Japan, after
the company introduced a new handheld video-game player.  
 “We are bullish on the U.S. economy,” said  Naoki Fujiwara ,
a fund manager in Tokyo at Shinkin Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $6 billion. “The continuing improvement in
earnings will drive down valuations even further, so there is
little concern that the market will decline.”  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 1 percent to 115.54 as of
6:25 p.m. in Tokyo, gaining for a fifth day in its longest
winning streak since April 7. The index has lost 4 percent this
year on concern that Greece and other European countries will
struggle to curb their budget deficits and repay debt.  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 1.8 percent, the
biggest increase among equity benchmarks in the Asia-Pacific
region, as the nation’s Trade Ministry said demand for services
rose for the first time in three months.  
 South Korea’s Kospi Index advanced 0.9 percent. Markets in
Hong Kong, China and Taiwan are closed today for a holiday.  
 New York Manufacturing  
 Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 1.2 percent even as an
index of leading economic indicators in the country slowed in
April to the weakest pace in three months, according to Westpac
Banking Corp. and the Melbourne Institute.  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.4 percent.
The gauge climbed 2.4 percent in New York yesterday after the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York said its general economic  index 
of manufacturing rose in June for an 11th consecutive month.  
 “Stocks seem to have become more resilient after taking
into account a lot of negative factors,” said  Masahide Tanaka ,
a senior strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a
unit of Japan’s second-largest bank.  
 Optimism the world’s largest economy is gathering momentum
boosted the dollar to near a one-week high against the yen today,
further buoying by Japanese exporters.  
 Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, rose 1.2 percent to
3,330 yen in Tokyo. Canon Inc., which is the world’s biggest
maker of digital cameras and receives 78 percent of its revenue
from outside Japan, climbed 3.9 percent to 3,880 yen.  
 Yen Boosts Exporters  
 Nissan Motor Co. , Japan’s third-biggest carmaker, increased
4.5 percent to 698 yen. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its
investment rating on the company to “buy” from “neutral,”
while lowering its share-price estimate to 800 yen from 950 yen.  
 The yen fell to as low as 91.67 against the dollar today
from 91.48 yen at yesterday’s close of stock trading in Tokyo. A
weaker yen boosts the value of overseas income at Japanese
companies when converted into their home currency.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has slumped 10 percent from its
52-week high on April 15 as swelling budget deficits prompted
Standard & Poor’s to cut ratings of Greece, Spain and Portugal.
The retreat has driven down the average price of shares in the
gauge to 14.8 times  estimated earnings . The ratio sank to 13.8
times on May 18, the lowest level since December 2008.  
 Shares Oversold  
 “Shares have been sold too much, considering the outlook
for corporate earnings,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities
manager in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc. “U.S.
manufacturing, supported by low interest rates and the buoyant
Chinese economy, is recovering steadily.”  
 About four shares advanced for each that declined today on
the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index . Material and computer-related
companies led gains among the gauge’s 10 industry groups.  
 BHP rose 2.2 percent to A$39.23 in Sydney and was the
biggest contributor to the index’s increase.  Rio Tinto Group ,
the world’s third-biggest mining company, climbed 2.8 percent to
A$71.34. Mitsubishi Corp., which gets about 40 percent of sales
from commodities, gained 2.3 percent to 1,931 yen in Tokyo.  
 The prospects for higher demand buoyed  oil prices  by 2.4
percent to $76.94 a barrel in New York yesterday, the highest
settlement since May 6. The  London Metal Exchange Index  advanced
0.7 percent, its sixth straight day of gains. Copper futures in
New York rose 1.2 percent, their seventh consecutive increase.  
 Nintendo Unveils 3D  
 Nintendo climbed 5.2 percent to 26,520 yen and was the most
active stock by value in Japan. The stock rose the most in more
than two months after the company unveiled a handheld machine
that shows 3-D images without special glasses.  
 OCI Co. , South Korea’s largest maker of polysilicon used in
solar-panel cells, jumped 7.6 percent to 226,000 won, the
biggest increase on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Korea
Investment & Securities Co. estimated a 300 billion won ($247
million) increase in OCI’s annual sales.  
 Asian chip-related shares followed a rally yesterday by
their U.S. counterparts after Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. said global sales in the chip industry will increase almost
30 percent this year, compared with an April forecast of 22
percent. Morris Chang, chairman and chief executive officer of
the world’s largest contract manufacturer of chips, announced
the projection yesterday morning in Taiwan.  
 Samsung Electronics, the world’s largest maker of memory
chips and liquid-crystal displays, rose 2.6 percent to 819,000
won in Seoul.  Advantest Corp. , the world’s biggest maker of
memory-chip testers, gained 2.5 percent to 2,028 yen in Tokyo.
Tokyo Electron Ltd., the world’s second-largest maker of
semiconductor equipment, increased 2.3 percent to 5,770 yen.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        