-- U.S. Stocks Slump as Treasuries, Dollar Gain on Data
-- Nick Baker
-- 2010-06-16T21:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/asia-stocks-gain-for-fifth-day-dollar-metals-rise-on-u-s-growth-outlook.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks fell, Treasuries gained
and the dollar strengthened against the euro after reports
showed American housing starts declined the most in 14 months
and FedEx Corp.’s profit forecast trailed estimates. Oil rose to
a six-week high.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slipped 0.1 percent to
1,114.61 at 4 p.m. in New York as about three stocks slumped for
 every  two that rallied on U.S. exchanges. The measure had fallen
as much as 0.7 percent earlier. Yields on 10-year Treasuries
lost 4 basis points to 3.26 percent. The U.S. currency climbed
0.2 percent to $1.2312. Crude oil futures rose 0.9 percent to
$77.67 a barrel.  
 Retailers, manufacturers, transportation companies and
commodity producers  dropped  in U.S. stock trading as FedEx’s
full-year profit outlook and the biggest drop in housing starts
since March 2009 overshadowed better-than-estimated growth in
industrial production. BP Plc’s 1.4 percent gain in New York
equity trading following an agreement to pay $20 billion to
victims of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill wasn’t enough to turn
the S&P 500 around.  
 “The recovery is not accelerating, it’s decelerating, and
there’s reasons for investors to take a step back and evaluate,”
said  David Kovacs , head of quantitative strategies at Turner
Investment Partners in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, which manages $19
billion. FedEx “is a barometer of economic activity, and the
fact that they missed relative to estimates indicates there are
some clouds on the horizon.”  
 ‘Moderate’ Recovery  
 FedEx , the world’s largest air-cargo carrier, declined 6
percent in U.S. stock trading for the biggest drop since
December. The company forecast annual profit that trailed the
average analyst estimate as labor costs climb in a “moderate”
economic recovery. Indexes of consumer stocks in the S&P 500
lost more than 0.5 percent.  
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, the mortgage firms 80 percent
owned by U.S. taxpayers, plunged after regulators told them to
delist their common and preferred shares from the New York Stock
Exchange. Fannie Mae dropped 39 percent and Freddie Mac slumped
38 percent.  
 Speculation that BP would put the $20 billion into an
escrow account helped its shares as well as the S&P 500 recover
from losses. BP maintained gains even after canceling its $10-
billion-a-year dividend for the first three quarters of 2010.  
 Credit investors are pricing in a 36 percent chance  BP Plc 
will default within five years as it tangles with the Obama
administration over cleanup costs and claims for the biggest oil
spill in U.S. history.  
 BP Swaps  
 The default risk implied by credit-default swaps is up from
7 percent a month ago, according to CMA DataVision prices using
a standard model used to value the derivatives.  BP swaps  climbed
70.5 basis points to 576.5. BP debt due next year traded today
at distressed levels, with investors demanding as much as 1,251
basis points in yield more than Treasuries.  
 Oil rose to a six-week high after gasoline surged on a
report that U.S. refineries cut operating rates and supplies of
the motor fuel fell. Refineries  operated  at 87.9 percent of
capacity, down 1.2 percentage points from the week before.
Gasoline supplies  fell  636,000 barrels to 218.3 million, the
Energy Department said. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News were
split over whether stockpiles of the fuel would rise or fall.  
 Three erroneous orders in  Washington Post Co.  shares
briefly caused the stock to double, making it the first U.S.
company to be halted by circuit breakers imposed following the
May 6 crash that erased $862 billion from equities in 20
minutes.  
 Canceled Trades  
 The trades  totaling  766 shares at $919.18 or $929.18
crossed on NYSE Euronext’s NYSE Arca electronic platform,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compared with a
price of $462.84 before the jump. The transactions were later
canceled, the data show.  
 The Securities and Exchange Commission trading curbs
started going into effect on June 11. The program, which is
being tested through December, pauses Standard & Poor’s 500
Index stocks for five minutes when they rise or fall 10 percent
in five minutes or less.  Washington Post  jumped 103 percent to
$929.18 before the halt, then traded at $458.19 as of 4 p.m. in
New York after the trading ban stopped.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nick Baker  in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Employees talk during an afternoon trading session at the Tokyo Stock Exchange in Tokyo. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deborah Kostroun reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     U.S. stocks fell, Treasuries gained and the dollar strengthened against the euro after reports showed American housing starts declined the most in 14 months and FedEx Corp.’s profit forecast trailed estimates. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- Binky Chadha, chief U.S. equity strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, talks about prospects for the U.S. economy and stock market.
     Chadha speaks on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          May 17 (Bloomberg) -- Sean Callow, a currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp, talks about Russia's interest in adding Australian and Canadian dollars to its currency reserves.
     Callow also discusses the outlook for the euro. He speaks with Bloomberg's Mark Barton from Sydney on Bloomberg Television's "Global Connection." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
