-- Massachusetts's $150 Million School Construction Bonds Beat Build Americas
-- Allison Bennett
-- 2010-06-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/massachusetts-s-150-million-school-bond-offer-beats-build-america-yields.html

          
          
             Massachusetts, the first state to
make school attendance compulsory, sold $151 million of
Qualified School Construction Bonds at a yield almost half a
percentage point below more popular Build America Bonds.  
 The  Massachusetts School Building Authority ’s debt, rated
third-highest by the three major credit companies, was priced to
yield 5.47 percent, or 44 basis points below the average yield
for Build Americas, according to a Wells Fargo index. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point. In April, Los Angeles schools
sold similar obligations at 8 basis points below the benchmark.  
 The school issue, the third-largest of such securities this
year, was encouraged by the popularity of Build America Bonds,
said  Evan Rourke , a portfolio manager with Boston-based Eaton
Vance Corp. Both of the taxable securities were created under
the U.S. economic stimulus last year.  
 “BABs helped pave the way” for qualified school bonds,
said Rourke, who helps oversee $8.3 billion in municipal
holdings. “They evolved into a product everyone understands and
created a strong buyer base.” Build Americas, with issuance
totaling $111 billion, are the fastest-growing part of the $2.8
trillion municipal market.  
 The Massachusetts offering boosted year-to-date issuance of
so-called QSCBs to $1.9 billion, compared with $2.7 billion in
all of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuers
from Nevada to Ohio plan to sell an additional $160.4 million of
the school bonds this week.  
 The federal government subsidizes as much as 100 percent of
the interest costs on the school debt and a fixed 35 percent on
Build Americas. Since March, the school bond subsidy, formerly
offered to investors as a tax credit on interest paid, is paid
directly to the issuer, as is the case with Build America Bonds.  
 Third-Wealthiest  
 The building authority, created in 2004 by the third-
wealthiest state per capita, can fund as much as $500 million in
new construction and repair projects annually through a
dedicated portion of the state sales tax, according to Fitch
Ratings. Underwriters led by  Barclays Plc  marketed the
securities.  
 “It’s a very unique product,” said Katherine Craven,
executive director of the Massachusetts School Building
Authority. “Coupled with the authority’s good reputation and
credit, the deal was received very well. We actually wrapped the
deal up a day earlier than planned.”  
 The Massachusetts bonds, maturing in 2027, are backed by a
dedicated 1 percent sales tax, according to Standard & Poor’s.
Massachusetts’s sales tax revenue has fallen for three straight
years, offering documents show. U.S. retail  sales  fell 1.2
percent in May, the Commerce Department said June 11.  
 ‘Relatively Stable’  
 Even amid the U.S. recession, “sales tax has been a
relatively stable revenue source over time,” analysts at Fitch
Ratings said in a June 9 report. The authority’s bonds carry a
rating of AA from Fitch and S&P, third-highest of 10 investment
grades.  
 The issue comprised about half of the school building
authority’s 2010 allocation of the bonds, according to U.S.
Treasury  data .  
 Massachusetts in 1852 became the first state to pass
compulsory school attendance laws. It was not until 1918 that
every state required children to receive an education, according
to the National Conference of State Legislatures website.  
 The Los Angeles Unified School District, rated AA- by S&P,
offered $290 million of Qualified School Construction Bonds at a
yield of 5.98 percent in April. The New York City Transitional
Finance Authority, rated AAA by Fitch and S&P, offered a 5.28
percent yield on its 2027 bonds in May, 56 basis points below
the Wells Fargo index.  
 Per-Capita Income  
 Massachusetts has the third-highest personal per-capita
income in the U.S. behind  Connecticut  and  New Jersey , according
to U.S. Census  data .  
 The Massachusetts authority’s last debt offering was a $450
million issue of Build America Bonds on Dec. 10, with the 30-
year securities priced to yield 5.72 percent, 48 basis points
below the average yield on the  Wells Fargo index  on the day of
sale. Those bonds last traded on May 28 at a 5.32 percent yield,
49 basis points less than the benchmark.  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 PUERTO RICO HIGHWAY AUTHORITY , which oversees 4,635 miles
of highways, plans to reoffer $297.9 million in tax-exempt
revenue refunding bonds as soon as next week. The floating-rate
securities were originally issued in 1998, maturing in 2026, and
2003, maturing in 2035. The new, fixed-rate bonds are backed by
gasoline taxes, a portion of vehicle licensing fees and toll
revenue. Jefferies & Co. is leading the group underwriting the
deal. (Added June 15)  
 KENTUCKY HIGHER EDUCATION STUDENT LOAN CORP., which
finances loans to college students, plans to sell $224.9 million
in tax-exempt revenue bonds as soon as tomorrow. The securities,
backed by a specific pool of student loans, are Libor floating-
rate bonds whose interest isn’t subject to the federal
alternative minimum tax. The debt is rated AAA by Fitch and S&P,
according to preliminary documents and will be marketed by a
group led by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. (Added June 16)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        