-- Westpac, NAB Seek Cheap Debt With New Zealand Covered Bonds Banned at Home
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-06-17T04:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/australia-banks-look-to-gain-in-n-z-from-covered-bonds-forbidden-at-home.html

          
          
             Bank of New Zealand ’s sale of the
country’s first covered bonds is spurring others to follow as
Australian banks seek to cut borrowing costs through local units
with securities forbidden by their own regulator.  
 BNZ, the Auckland-based subsidiary of National Australia
Bank Ltd., sold NZ$425 million ($296 million) of top-rated bonds
backed by mortgage payments on June 14 at a 38 percent discount
to what New Zealand banks would pay without cover, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. Westpac Banking Corp.’s New Zealand
unit said yesterday that it’s planning a similar sale this year.  
 While Australia’s regulator prohibits banks from selling
covered notes, the Reserve Bank of New Zealand said last month
that it supports the securities  as a cost-effective way  for
lenders to meet tougher capital requirements. Australia’s four-
biggest  banks , which control New Zealand’s largest lenders, need
to refinance $129 billion of debt at home and overseas before
the end of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Australian banks can access cheaper debt, target new
investors and diversify their funding by selling covered bonds
through their New Zealand subsidiaries,” said  Leef Dierks , an
analyst for Barclays Capital in Frankfurt who specializes in the
securities. “Covered bonds offer a sound alternative,
especially at a time when issuing senior unsecured debt is a
challenge for lenders.”  
 European Sales  
 Covered bonds, mostly sold by European banks, typically
attract higher credit ratings than regular notes because they’re
backed by assets such as mortgages that stay on the lender’s
balance sheet and that can be sold in a default.  
 Korea Housing Finance Corp., the state-run residential
funding provider, is planning Asia’s second sale of covered
bonds, a spokeswoman said today. Kookmin Bank, South Korea’s
largest lender, raised $1 billion from the first such sale in
May 2009, pricing five-year, 7.25 percent notes to yield 550
basis points more than Treasuries, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Sales of the securities in Europe jumped 72 percent to
161.5 billion euros ($198 billion) this year from 93.9 billion
euros in the same period of 2009 as total European bond issuance
dropped and the continent’s fiscal crisis spurred demand for the
safest debt, Bloomberg data show.  
 Extra Yield  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian
financial company debt instead of government bonds has jumped 24
basis points since the start of May, a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index shows. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 National Australia Bank, Commonwealth Bank of Australia,
Westpac and Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. sold no
bonds in May after issuing a combined average A$2 billion of
notes in each of the first four months of this year, according
to Bloomberg data.  
 Introducing covered bond legislation in Australia may be a
way for the government to assist banks if global credit markets
freeze as they did after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., Nomura Holdings Inc. analysts said in a report
this month.  
 “Concerns about the reliance of the major banks on external
borrowings remains a key risk for the sector should we face an
extended period of financial risk aversion on the back of
European sovereign debt concerns,” Nomura said.  
 Banking Act  
 The  Australian Prudential Regulation Authority , or APRA,
bans covered notes because they are not “consistent with
depositor preference provisions set out in the Banking Act,”
according to its website. The Treasury is considering a proposal
to allow the bonds “to enhance the stability of the country’s
financial system,” Moody’s said in a report today.  
 Treasury spokesman  Conan Elphicke  declined to comment and
APRA spokesman  Andrew McCutcheon  said the regulator’s position
hasn’t changed.  
 BNZ’s covered bond sale included NZ$175 million of five-
year notes priced to yield 98 basis points more than the swap
rate, it said in an e-mailed term sheet. The bank’s NZ$315
million of 8.675 percent notes due in 2015 are trading at 131
basis points more than the benchmark, ANZ prices show.  
 BNZ is  rated  Aa2 by Moody’s, two steps below the Aaa grade
the risk assessor gave its covered bonds. The bank and its
Australian-owned peers -- ASB Bank Ltd., Westpac and ANZ
National Bank Ltd. -- control 92 percent of New Zealand home
loans, according to Fitch Ratings.  
 ‘Funding Source’  
 Westpac’s Auckland-based unit sees covered bonds as a
“good alternative funding source” and is preparing for its
first sale, public relations manager  Liz MacIntyre  said in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News. ASB is
considering “covered bonds as a funding option, but no decision
has been made,”  Steve Carritt , acting general manager for
treasury, said in an e-mail.  
 Sydney-based Commonwealth Bank along with National
Australia and ANZ, both based in Melbourne, declined to comment
on the potential for covered bonds in Australia or New Zealand.  
 Credit-default swaps on National Australia fell 5 basis
points to 130 basis points today, the lowest since June 4,
according to Nomura and CMA DataVision in New York.  
 While New Zealand has no framework for covered bonds, the
Reserve Bank of New Zealand said in a  report  last month that
there are no regulatory impediments to banks in the country
selling the securities and that it “supports the development of
this instrument.”  
 Until an official policy is published, the central bank has
set an informal guideline that banks may sell covered bonds
equivalent to 5 percent of assets, spokesman  Mike Hannah  said in
a telephone interview. That would allow BNZ, ASB, Westpac and
ANZ to raise about NZ$15 billion from the securities, based on
regulatory filings showing their assets.  
 New Avenue  
 “Managing their reliance on offshore wholesale funding
will continue to be a key challenge for Australian and New
Zealand banks,” said  David Carroll , a director at Fitch.
Covered bonds “provide another avenue for banks to source long-
dated funds that may be attractive to the New Zealand major bank
subsidiaries, which in the past have derived funding from their
Australian parents.”  
 Covered bonds may also enable issuers to attract investors
who bought government-guaranteed bank debt under programs
introduced after Lehman’s collapse, according to  Patrick Winsbury , a Sydney-based senior vice president at Moody’s.  
 “It taps into an AAA investor base and therefore in effect
continues the relationships that were set up with the
government-guaranteed funding during the crisis,” he said.  
 State-Backed Bonds  
 Australia’s banks sold more than A$120 billion of state-
backed bonds last year, according to Deutsche Bank AG. The
government removed the guarantee in March, a month before New
Zealand lawmakers did the same.  
 New Zealand lenders sold NZ$10.3 billion of debt under
their country’s guarantee program, according to the  Treasury .  
 Covered bonds may damage a bank’s ratings if it sells too
many as they reduce the value of assets that are available to
other bondholders in a default, Moody’s said in its report. As
long as BNZ keeps its program small as a percentage of overall
funding, it will remain in a credit “sweet spot,” the ratings
company said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney on 
 Smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Bank of New Zealand branch in downtown Auckland. Photographer: Staton R. Winter/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
