-- Australian Buyout Revival May Stall as TPG, Equity Firms Face Resistance
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2010-06-16T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/australian-buyout-revival-may-stall-as-tpg-equity-firms-face-resistance.html

          
          
             A recovery in Australian buyouts may
be curtailed as private-equity firms with as much as A$8 billion
($6.9 billion) of cash to spend grapple with reluctant sellers
and scarce credit.  
 “Although it’s a good time to buy, people aren’t choosing
to sell,”  Katherine Woodthorpe , 53, chief executive officer of
the  Australian Private Equity & Venture Capital Association Ltd. ,
said in a June 15 interview in Sydney. “You have to have both
those stars in alignment.”  
 Stock valuations  in Australia have fallen this year even in
an economic recovery, as investors fret over Europe’s debt
crisis. Blackstone Group LP, TPG Capital and Carlyle Group last
month bid A$1.8 billion for  Healthscope Ltd. , attempting the
country’s biggest buyout in two years, according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  
 That bid may have been the high point of the revival in
private-equity takeovers in Australia, said Woodthorpe, whose
group represents about 60 foreign and local firms. Some
companies, emboldened by improved economic prospects, are
resisting overtures from the buyout industry and banks remain
reluctant to finance large deals, she said.  
 “The vendors are still not as anxious to sell as you might
have thought,” Woodthorpe said. “People are looking at pricing
and saying: ‘I don’t necessarily need to sell, so I don’t know
that I want to sell at these prices.’”  
 Her organization, known as Avcal, estimates Australian
firms like  Archer Capital  and  CHAMP Private Equity  have A$5
billion to A$6 billion to deploy between them, while overseas
funds have about A$2 billion to spend on local assets.  
 Hoard of Cash  
 That’s still less than the A$11.1 billion buyout offer for
Qantas Airways Ltd. in 2007, near the end of the era of cheap
credit that preceded the global financial crisis. Shareholders
of Australia’s largest carrier rejected the bid.  
 Deprived of financing during the crisis, private-equity
firms are returning as economies recover. Buyout companies
worldwide plan to invest a record $507 billion in cash raised
before the collapse, triple the comparable figure in December
2001, according to London-based researcher  Preqin Ltd.   
 Carlyle Group, the world’s second-largest private-equity
firm, said in May it had $33.5 billion waiting to be invested at
the end of 2009.  David Rubenstein , co-founder of the Washington-
based firm, said June 4 at a Boston conference that the worst
was probably over for the industry.  
 Competition Begins  
 Private equity-led takeovers announced in Australia reached
$323.5 million this year excluding the offer for Healthscope,
Australia’s second-biggest hospital owner, according to
Bloomberg data. That compares with $7.56 million in the same
period last year. New York-based  Blackstone , Carlyle, and Dallas,
Texas-based TPG haven’t made public their bid. Healthscope
yesterday declined to comment.  
 “A lot of private equity funds have a large amount of
capital still to be deployed,” said  Andrew Stuart , chief
executive officer of BKK Partners Pty, a Sydney-based corporate
advisory firm. “We’re just about to see competition beginning
for the deployment of that capital.”  
 With banks reluctant to finance multibillion-dollar deals,
buyout firms in Australia will probably focus on targets worth
A$500 million or less, said Woodthorpe at Sydney-based Avcal.  
 Banks are unwilling to extend more than A$1 billion for a
leveraged buyout even when lending in groups, and the ceiling is
more likely to be closer to A$750 million, said Woodthorpe.
Credit can take months to obtain, compared with weeks before the
financial crisis, she said.  
 More Equity  
 Nineteen banks are financing the A$1.82 billion offer by
Blackstone, TPG and Carlyle for  Healthscope , the Australian
Financial Review reported June 4. A rival A$1.84 billion bid,
which Healthscope disclosed without naming the suitor, was made
by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and CVC Asia Pacific, the
newspaper said.  
 Buyout firms will find it tougher to outbid corporate
acquirers as they need to finance a larger part of deals with
equity than before the crisis, said Bryan Zekulich, Sydney-based
private equity managing partner at Ernst & Young LLP.  
 “That does limit the ability to pay significantly higher
prices,” he said. “If you are a corporate buyer and have
synergies available, than arguably you should be able to outbid
the private equity house that’s just trying to leverage.”  
 Debt accounted for as much as 70 percent of the largest
buyouts in Australia before the financial crisis, according to
Avcal. Now, firms have to stump up half the price in equity, the
organization estimates.  
 Shareholders are pressing boards for more detail on private
equity approaches, said Zekulich. The wariness stems partly from
deals including the failed buyout of Qantas three years ago,
when shareholders rejected a board-endorsed bid from a group
that included Macquarie Group Ltd. and TPG, he said.  
 “Boards and shareholders are still a little bit
uncomfortable giving too much access to private equity
players,” Zekulich said. “There’s a slight change in
underlying shareholder sentiment.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Healthscope headquarters stand in Melbourne. Photographer: Luis Enrique Ascui/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
