-- Australia's Leading Index Moderates as Global Economic Recovery Cools Down
-- Michael Heath
-- 2010-07-21T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/australia-s-april-westpac-leading-economic-index-annual-growth-rate-slows.html

          
          
             The annual growth rate of an
Australian index of leading economic indicators slowed in May
for a second month amid signs the global economy may be losing
momentum.  
 The index, a gauge of future economic growth, rose at an
annualized rate of 6.7 percent after gaining 7.5 percent in
April,  Westpac Banking Corp.  and the Melbourne Institute said in
Sydney today. The index rose 0.2 percent from the previous month
to 264.7 points.  
 Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  kept
borrowing costs unchanged two weeks ago for a second month,
citing turmoil on financial markets fueled by Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis. The bank had boosted the benchmark lending rate six
times since early October. To restore confidence in Europe,
regulators have this month been stress testing the region’s
banks to gauge their resilience against any financial crisis.  
 “This is the second consecutive month when the growth rate
in the Index has slowed,” said  Bill Evans , the bank’s chief
economist. “In absolute terms the growth rate remains
remarkably high but it appears that growth in the Index has
peaked. Despite the slowing, the current growth rate of the
Index is still indicative of a stronger outlook for growth in
the near term than Westpac expects.”  
 Westpac expects the economy to grow at a 3.5 percent pace
through the second half of 2010.  
 The leading index tracks eight gauges of activity,
including company profits and productivity, to give an
indication of how the economy will perform over the next three
to nine months.  
 The coincident index, a measure of the current state of the
economy, rose to 252.4 points in May from 251.3.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        