-- Dodd Set to Drop Political Appointment of New York Fed Chief in Bank Bill
-- Craig Torres
-- 2010-06-16T23:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/lawmakers-in-u-s-prepared-to-drop-political-choice-of-new-york-fed-chief.html

          
          
             U.S. House and Senate lawmakers are
prepared to require increased disclosure on Federal Reserve
actions and drop plans to make the New York Fed president a
political appointee.  
 Senate negotiators on an overhaul of financial legislation
will agree to amend the bill to reduce the role of commercial
banks in naming Fed presidents, according to a counteroffer
released by Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd .
Under another change, the central bank, after a two-year delay,
would have to identify firms that borrow through its discount
window and participate in the Fed’s purchases or sales of assets
such as mortgage-backed securities.  
 At stake is the extent of future central bank independence
and the degree of its public disclosure. The Fed beat back
efforts this year to strip it of its bank-supervision powers and
allow audits of  interest-rate decisions . Now lawmakers are
demanding unprecedented transparency after the Fed, often
invoking emergency powers, made more than $2 trillion of loans
to end the financial crisis.  
 “It looks to me like a win-win” in part because it
“takes an optics issue off the table,” former Richmond Fed
President J.  Alfred Broaddus  said of the plan on Fed presidents.  
 The discount-window disclosure requirement is “potentially
damaging,” because it could interfere with the Fed’s ability to
serve as a “lender of last resort,” Broaddus said. “It
discourages solvent institutions from using the facility when
temporary liquidity problems arise.”  
 ‘Conflicts of Interest’  
 Representative  Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat and
chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, proposed the
changes. The amendments alter legislation backed by Dodd, the
Connecticut Democrat who chairs the Senate Banking Committee and
who wanted to make the New York Fed chief a political appointee
as part of efforts to avoid what he said are “conflicts of
interest.”  
 The changes are pending approval by House and Senate
negotiators, who were meeting today. Once the talks on other
parts finish, the broader legislation would proceed to the full
House and Senate, then to President  Barack Obama  to be signed
into law.  
 Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and several regional Fed
presidents opposed the measure making the New York Fed chief a
presidential appointee subject to Senate approval. St. Louis Fed
President  James Bullard  has said the legislation represented an
effort by politicians to exert more control over monetary
policy.  
 Selection Process  
 The 12 regional Fed presidents are each selected by a nine-
member board of directors and approved by the Fed’s Board of
Governors in Washington. Currently, three directors are bankers
appointed by banks, three are non-bankers selected by banks, and
three are non-bankers chosen by the Board of Governors.  
 On the New York Fed chief, Frank said he heard concerns
from “people who thought it was going to elevate the New York
Fed above everybody else” and from “people in the New York Fed
who thought it was going to interfere.”  
 Under Frank’s proposal yesterday, only the six non-bankers
would select each  regional Fed president , subject to governors’
approval. The plan would also replace a Senate provision that
prevents bank employees from serving as Fed directors.  
 Frank’s plan for Fed disclosure falls short of the House-
passed provision, backed by Texas Representative  Ron Paul , the
author of the book “End the Fed,” that would strip the central
bank of a 1978 shield from congressional audits of interest-rate
decisions and discount-window borrowing.  
 Attempt Rebuffed  
 During talks today, the House negotiators rebuffed, in a
12-7 vote, an attempt by Republicans to revive that measure. The
proposal, part of legislation passed in December by the House,
was rejected during Senate debate and wasn’t in the text of a
bill lawmakers are amending in House-Senate negotiations.  
 At the same time, the Frank measure went beyond the Senate
bill, which would open the Fed to a one-time audit of its
emergency loans and other actions to combat the financial crisis
starting in December 2007.  
 Bernanke, while advocating increased transparency for Fed
policies and decisions, has held firm against identifying banks
that borrow from the Fed’s  discount window .  
 The two-year delay in disclosure of that information “is
enough to make it old history,” said  Charles Lieberman , chief
investment officer at Advisors Capital Management LLC in
Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey, and a former head of the monetary
analysis staff at the New York Fed. “The Fed could probably
live with that.”  
 Bloomberg LP has sued the central bank to release records
of discount-window loans following a request under the Freedom
of Information Act. The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York ruled
March 19 that the Fed must release the records. The Federal
Reserve Board asked the appeals court in May to reconsider its
ruling.  
 Frank said the changes to the legislation would not
interfere with pending litigation, including the Bloomberg
lawsuit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        