-- Lawmakers Weigh Changes to SEC, Investor Protections
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-06-17T02:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/lawmakers-consider-changes-to-sec-authority-brokerages-duty-to-clients.html

          
          
             U.S. lawmakers struggled to agree on
how best to make stock brokers and boards of directors more
accountable to investors as they worked for a third day to
reconcile House and Senate bills on financial regulation.  
 With some of the most contentious issues yet to be
considered, including rules on bank capital standards and
derivatives trading, leaders of the House-Senate conference
committee today postponed a final decision on whether to impose
a fiduciary duty on securities firms dealing with retail
customers.  
 The lawmakers also put off a decision on a plan to give
shareholders the right to nominate corporate directors. They
neared agreement on a rule that would allow clients to sue
accountants, bankers or lawyers who take part in a company’s
plan to deceive investors.  
 In the debate over fiduciary duty, the House side of the
conference committee offered a proposal that would require the
Securities and Exchange Commission to impose the standard on
brokers when they provide “personalized investment advice about
securities to a retail customer.” The proposal would allow the
SEC to extend the obligation to other customers.  
 “I cannot foresee us giving in on fiduciary responsibility
for individual investors,” Representative  Barney Frank , a
Massachusetts Democrat who is leading the negotiations, told
reporters today.  
 The standard, which currently applies to money managers,
would require brokers selling stocks and bonds to act in
clients’ best interests and disclose all conflicts of interest.  
 Consumers  
 Consumer advocates have argued that the fiduciary
obligation is needed because individual investors can be misled
into buying products they don’t understand and are often
confused by the various titles used by financial advisers.  
 The Senate last month approved legislation that would
direct the SEC to study the fiduciary standard, which was
opposed by financial companies including Morgan Stanley. Senate
Banking Committee Chairman  Christopher Dodd  said he’ll work with
Senator  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota Democrat, to craft a
counteroffer to the House, which they’ll present as early as
tomorrow.  
 “Whether or not we have a big argument depends on what they
come back with,” Frank said.  
 Recent Cases  
 SEC Commissioner  Luis Aguilar  argued in an April 29 speech
that the standard should also apply when brokers are selling
securities to sophisticated clients such as banks and pension
funds. “Recent commission enforcement cases” demonstrate that
all investors need the protection, Aguilar said.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was accused by the SEC on April 16
of selling a mortgage-backed security without disclosing that
Paulson & Co., the hedge fund run by  John Paulson , helped pick
the underlying assets. Paulson was betting the security would
fail, the SEC said. New York-based Goldman Sachs said the case
has no merit.  
 Senators today also moved to dilute a plan that would make
it easier for shareholders to oust corporate directors.  
 The House and Senate measures would authorize the SEC to
let investors include their nominees on company ballots used to
elect board members. Senate negotiators proposed that the so-
called proxy access provision be limited to shareholders who own
5 percent of a company for two years.  
 The Council of Institutional Investors said in a January
letter to the SEC that even if the 10 largest pension funds
aggregated their stock, they wouldn’t be able to meet a 5
percent threshold.  
 ‘A Real Angst’  
 Frank said disagreement over the measure continues.
“There’s a real angst on our side about this 5 percent limit on
proxy access,” he said.  
 In a victory for accountants, bankers and lawyers, Senate
lawmakers rejected a House amendment that would have allowed
shareholders to sue outside businesses that participate in a
company’s scheme to defraud investors. Senators offered instead
to direct the Government Accountability Office to study the
costs and benefits of creating a private right of action against
so-called aiders and abettors of securities fraud.  
 House members had approved the change proposed by
Representative  Maxine Waters , a California Democrat. Currently,
only the SEC has authority to sue aiders and abettors. The U.S.
Supreme Court in 2008 restricted shareholder suits against
business partners.  
 Waters appears to be “acquiescing in a study” with some
stipulations, Frank said.  
 Sarbanes-Oxley  
 In other action, House lawmakers proposed language that
would spare small companies the costs of complying with audit
rules in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The plan would exempt companies
with market values below $75 million from a requirement that
auditors assess whether they have adequate safeguards to prevent
financial misstatements and fraud.  
 House lawmakers also want the SEC to study ways to reduce
audit fees for companies with market values between $75 million
and $250 million that are already complying with Sarbanes-Oxley,
which Congress approved in 2002 in response to accounting frauds
at Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc.  
 House Democrats rejected a proposal by Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican, that would have prevented the
SEC from determining its own funding needs. Senate negotiators
are developing a counteroffer on the proposal to allow the SEC
to fund itself that they will present tomorrow, Dodd said.  
 ‘Very Concerned’  
 “I’ve got members who are very concerned about it,” Dodd
told reporters after today’s meeting.  
 The SEC has fought for self-funding authority, arguing that
congressionally approved budgets make it difficult for the
agency to hire adequate staff and purchase the technology it
needs to keep pace with Wall Street innovations.  
 Garrett said lawmakers should continue to determine the SEC
budget to keep tabs on an agency that has failed in regulating
the financial industry.  
 The Senate also rejected a House proposal to hold
shareholder votes on so-called golden parachute pay packages.  
 The House and Senate are finishing legislation designed to
address an economic collapse that led to the failure of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and pushed the U.S. banking industry to
the brink of collapse. The measures would create a mechanism for
winding down systemically risky financial firms, a regulatory
structure for the derivatives market and a new federal bureau
responsible for overseeing and regulating consumer financial
products such as mortgages and credit cards.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        