-- Defense Lawyer Stewart Deserves `Enhanced' Term for Comments, U.S. Says
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-06-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/lawyer-who-helped-terrorist-deserves-enhanced-term-u-s-prosecutor-says.html

          
          
             Attorney  Lynne Stewart , convicted of
helping an extremist cleric pass messages from prison to
terrorist followers, deserves an enhanced sentence because of
statements she made after her conviction and sentencing, U.S.
prosecutors said.  
 A federal appeals court in New York in November ruled that
Stewart, 70 should be resentenced in a way that reflects the
“seriousness” of her crime. U.S. District Judge  John Koeltl  in
Manhattan, who originally sentenced Stewart to 28 months in
prison and is presiding over the case, has scheduled her
resentencing for July 15.  
 Stewart was convicted by a federal jury in New York in
2005 for helping her former client, the blind Egyptian sheik
 Omar Abdel Rahman , smuggle messages to followers in defiance of
U.S. prison restrictions. Stewart, who was free pending appeal,
was ordered to prison Nov. 19 and is currently being held at a
federal jail in lower Manhattan.  
 “Stewart has made it clear that if given the opportunity
to engage in the unlawful conduct for which she now stands
convicted she would do it again,” federal prosecutors in the
office of  Preet Bharara  said in court papers.  
 Stewart’s lawyers argued in court papers that the 28-month
term imposed by Koeltl was “reasonable, just and satisfied the
purposes of sentencing.”  
 “Ms. Stewart’s 28-month sentence is reasonable, especially
when viewed alongside sentences in other terrorism prosecutions,
including those where the defendants joined terrorist groups and
clearly intended that harm would result from their actions,”
wrote Stewart’s lawyers, Liz Fink and Jill Shellow.  
 Nine-Month Trial  
 Her lawyers said Koeltl, who presided over the nine-month
trial, was in the best position to know the appropriate term to
impose and that longer terms imposed in other terrorism cases
cited by an appeals court judge were for crimes which occurred
after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  
 Defense lawyers argued she hadn’t committed perjury during
the trial and that she didn’t know the true terrorist nature of
followers of Rahman.  
 Fink wasn’t immediately available for comment yesterday and
federal prosecutors declined to comment on the case.  
 Prosecutors said in court papers that Stewart deserves an
“enhanced” sentence. While the U.S. didn’t ask for the 30-year
prison term which they’d previously requested, they said they
would make a recommendation at a later date about what kind of
sentence would be “appropriate.”  
 Harsher Term  
 The government said Stewart deserved a harsher term because
was likely to continue breaking the law, citing statements
Stewart made in interviews in the days after the appeals court’s
decision.  
 “I’d like to think I would not do anything differently,”
Stewart said in an interview with the Democracy Now Network on
Nov. 18, prosecutors quoted her as saying. “I think it was
necessary. I would do it again. I might handle it a little
differently, but I would do it again.”  
 Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorneys Andrew Dember and
Michael Maimin said a longer term would prevent Stewart from
committing other crimes, arguing her actions of “ideologically
motivated criminal conduct” spanned years.  
 “Stewart’s offense conduct was not isolated to one single
event,” Dember and Maimin said, “rather it showed a pattern of
purposeful and willful conduct, in which she played a central
role in repeated fraudulent attempts to pass messages to and
from Abdel Rahman.”  
 ‘Serious Doubts’  
 The federal appeals court said in a Dec. 24 ruling issued
after the original decision, that it had “serious doubts”
about Stewart’s 28-month term and directed Koeltl to apply a
terrorism enhancement when calculating a new term.  
 “I believe I did everything as a lawyer, as a lawyer
should do, in the best interests of their client,” Stewart said
on Nov. 17, at a news conference at Foley Square, outside the
federal courthouse where her trial was held.  
 Stewart defended Rahman, the Islamic Group’s spiritual
leader, against 1993 charges that he plotted to blow up the
United Nations, an FBI building, two tunnels and a bridge in New
York City. He was convicted in 1995 and is serving a life
sentence in a high-security prison, where Stewart had numerous
meetings with him.  
 Prosecutors said during the trial that after Rahman’s
imprisonment, Stewart had four prison visits with the cleric in
which she smuggled messages from 1997 to 2001.  
 Rahman relied upon Stewart and her co-defendants to send a
message withdrawing his support for the group’s cease-fire with
the Egyptian government, U.S. authorities contended.  
 The organization had suspended its violent activities after
a 1997 attack that left 62 people dead at a temple in Luxor,
Egypt, prosecutors said. Testimony showed the Islamic Group
later demanded the cleric’s release from prison in the U.S. and
planned an attack that was thwarted by Egyptian authorities in
2000.  
 The case is U.S. v. Stewart, 06-5015-cr, U.S. Court of
Appeals.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        