-- Former Taylor Bean Chief Farkas Charged With Fraud
-- Justin Blum
-- 2010-06-16T18:40:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/taylor-bean-s-former-chief-charged-with-1-9-billion-tarp-fraud-scheme.html

          
          
             Lee Farkas , the former chairman of
Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., was accused by the U.S.
of helping run a more than $1.9 billion fraud scheme that
unsuccessfully attempted to steal money from the government’s
Troubled Asset Relief Program.  
 An indictment unsealed today in  federal court  in
Alexandria, Virginia, alleges that Farkas, 57, sought to deceive
financial firms and TARP by covering up shortfalls at his
closely held mortgage lending company based in Ocala, Florida.  
 The scheme contributed to the failures of Colonial Bank,
one of the 50 largest U.S. banks in 2009, and closely held
Taylor, Bean & Whitaker, once one of the largest privately held
mortgage companies in the U.S., the Justice Department said in a
statement.  
 Farkas was arrested yesterday by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in Ocala after he finished a workout at a gym he
owns, said  Shawn Henry , an assistant FBI director in charge of
the Washington field office. Farkas faces the possibility of
spending the rest of his life in prison, according to court
papers.  
 “The fraud alleged here is truly stunning in its scale and
complexity,” said  Lanny Breuer , the assistant U.S. attorney
general in charge of the Justice Department’s criminal division,
at a news conference in Washington. “This arrest and these
charges send a strong message to corporations and corporate
executives alike that financial fraud will be found, and it will
be prosecuted.”  
 Unnamed Conspirators  
 Thomas Bever, an attorney for Farkas with  Chilivis,
Cochran, Larkins & Bever LLP  in Atlanta, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  
 The indictment said Farkas and unnamed conspirators sold
Colonial Bank more than $400 million in fake mortgage assets.
They also allegedly hid mortgage loans that were losing value,
or were valueless, from regulators and auditors in fraudulent
transactions to make it look like the loans were being sold onto
the secondary mortgage market.  
 Farkas and his conspirators diverted about $1.5 billion
from Ocala Funding, a mortgage lending facility controlled by
Taylor, Bean & Whitaker, also known as TBW, to cover TBW’s
losses, according to the indictment.  
 Commercial Paper  
 Ocala Funding sold asset-backed commercial paper to
financial institution investors including  Deutsche Bank AG ,
Germany’s biggest bank, and Paris-based  BNP Paribas SA ,
according to the indictment.  
 Farkas misappropriated more than $20 million in TBW funds
for personal use, according to the government’s pretrial
detention memo. The government is seeking the forfeiture of
property from Farkas, including a 1929 Ford Model A, a 1963
Rolls-Royce and seven other cars.  
 The Securities and Exchange Commission filed a separate
civil complaint against Farkas in U.S. District Court in
Alexandria today alleging a securities fraud scheme. The
investigation is continuing and others may be charged, according
to the Justice Department.  
 The fraud allegedly began as early as 2002 in an effort to
hide operating losses at TBW, according to Breuer. The scheme
evolved to include the misappropriation of “hundreds of
millions of dollars” from Colonial Bank and Ocala Funding, he
said.  
 Funding From TARP  
 In 2008, when TBW’s operating losses mounted, Farkas and
his conspirators allegedly tried through  Colonial BancGroup ,
Colonial Bank’s Montgomery, Alabama-based holding company,
to obtain additional funding through TARP. TARP is the $700
billion U.S. government bailout program to stem the financial
crisis.  
 The application for funding included false information, and
investigators detected irregularities before any TARP money was
released, according to the Justice Department.  
 The indictment alleges that Farkas and his conspirators
committed wire and securities fraud by attempting unsuccessfully
to persuade the government to provide Colonial with about $553
million in TARP funds.  
 Alabama regulators in 2009 seized Colonial Bank and
appointed the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp . as receiver.
Colonial BancGroup filed for bankruptcy last year.  
 The case is USA v. Farkas, 10cr200, U.S. District Court for
the Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lee Farkas Indicted  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         Lee Farkas, former chairman of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., is accused by the U.S. of helping run a more than $1.9 billion fraud scheme aimed in part at the government's Troubled Asset Relief Program. Source Marion County Sheriff's Office via Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Lee Farkas, former chairman of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., is accused by the U.S. of helping run a more than $1.9 billion fraud scheme aimed in part at the government's Troubled Asset Relief Program. Source Marion County Sheriff's Office via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
