-- BP Chief to Apologize for `Complex' Accident in Gulf
-- Jim Snyder
-- 2010-06-17T00:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/hayward-says-unprecedented-combination-of-failures-led-to-well-explosion.html

          
          
             BP Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , making his first appearance before Congress to face
questions about the worst U.S. oil spill, will say multiple
breakdowns led to the explosion at a Gulf of Mexico well.  
 “This is a complex accident, caused by an unprecedented
combination of failures,” Hayward says in testimony prepared
for a hearing today of a House Energy Committee panel. “A
number of companies are involved, including BP, and it is simply
too early to understand the cause.”  
 Hayward, 53, who will tell the lawmakers he is “deeply
sorry” about the spill, was warned through a list of advance
questions to expect a rough reception from lawmakers. Congress
has a tradition of summoning CEOs of companies, from banks to
automakers, for public tongue-lashings, said former Democratic
Representative  Gerry Sikorski  of Minnesota.  
 “You don’t succeed in these hearings, you survive,” said
Sikorski, now a partner in Washington for Holland and Knight LLP
who advises clients facing congressional investigations.  
 Committee Chairman  Henry Waxman , a California Democrat, and
Representative  Bart Stupak , head of the panel’s Oversight and
Investigations Subcommittee, told Hayward in a June 15 letter to
be prepared to discuss five questionable decisions they say BP
made in the days before the disaster.  
 “Time after time, it appears that BP made decisions that
increased the risk of a blowout to save the company time or
expense,” the lawmakers said in the letter.  
 Number of Failures  
 Hayward, who doesn’t respond directly to the lawmakers’
written questions in his prepared testimony, will say BP’s
internal investigation so far “suggests that this accident was
brought about by the apparent failure of a number of processes,
systems and equipment.”  
 Among CEOs who have faced a grilling from Congress are  Akio Toyoda , CEO of  Toyota Motor Corp. , who testified Feb. 24 on his
company’s vehicle recalls.  
 CEOs of  Exxon Mobil Corp. , Chevron Corp. and ConocoPhillips
were told by lawmakers at a June 15 hearing that they were as
ill-prepared as BP to halt and clean up an offshore spill
because all of the oil companies used “carbon copy” disaster
plans.  
 BP canceled three quarters of dividends yesterday and
agreed in talks with President  Barack Obama  to put aside $20
billion for claims. The company also will contribute $100
million to help unemployed oil-rig workers. The government
estimates the well is spewing as much as 60,000 barrels of oil a
day into the Gulf.  
 ‘Personally Devastated’  
 In Hayward’s written testimony, he says the explosion and
spill “never should have happened, and I am deeply sorry that
they did.” He says he was “personally devastated” to learn of
the deaths of 11 workers on the Deepwater Horizon rig the
company leased.  
 “My sadness has only grown as the disaster continues,”
Hayward says. “We will not rest until the well is under
control, and we will meet all our obligations to clean up the
spill and address its environmental and economic impacts.”  
 London-based BP has paid more than $90 million for more
than 56,000 claims submitted since the spill, Hayward said.  
 Among the lessons BP has learned since the disaster,
Hayward says, is that the industry needs to be better prepared
for a spill beneath the sea and needs to improve safety
technology such as blowout preventers. The device failed in the
BP explosion.  
 ‘My Life Back’  
 Hayward, BP’s chief since 2007, has been criticized for
remarks such as a comment that he wishes the spill was ended
because “I’d like my life back.”  
 Obama said June 8 that someone making such a comment
“wouldn’t be working for me.” Hayward apologized to the
families of the workers who died.  
 Executives put themselves in legal jeopardy by testifying
before Congress when their company faces a potential criminal
investigation, said  Stanley Brand , a former congressional aide
whose Brand Law Group has also represented companies under
congressional investigation. The Justice Department has opened
criminal and civil investigations into the BP spill.  
 “It’s not a judicially constrained exercise,” Brand said
of hearings such as today’s. “Questions that would never be
permitted in a judicial forum are allowed. You are really at
their mercy.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       BP CEO Tony Hayward at the White House  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         BP CEO Tony Hayward at the White House on Wednesday. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     BP CEO Tony Hayward at the White House on Wednesday. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 17 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Marsha Blackburn, a Tennessee Republican, talks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee from Washington about President Barack Obama’s response to the oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico, and the six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling.
     Obama said BP Plc's will put $20 billion over four years into an oil spill compensation fund that will be independently administered by lawyer Kenneth Feinberg. The fund won’t cap BP’s liability for cleanup costs and economic damage, Obama said after he and some of his top advisers met with BP executives at the White House, and it won’t supersede the rights of individuals or states to sue the company. The company also will contribute $100 million to a fund to help support unemployed oil rig workers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
