-- Bank Indonesia Seeks to Manage Capital Flows, Reduce Currency Volatility
-- Novrida Manurung
-- 2010-06-17T04:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/bank-indonesia-unveils-rules-to-manage-capital-flows-currency-volatility.html

          
          
             Indonesia’s central bank will
reorganize its bill sales to encourage investors to keep their
money in Southeast Asia’s largest economy for longer, joining
regional policy makers in seeking to reduce currency volatility.  
 Investors in Bank Indonesia bills maturing in a month or
more must hold the securities for at least one month, whether
they make the purchase in the primary or secondary market,
Senior Deputy Governor  Darmin Nasution  told reporters in Jakarta
yesterday. The central bank will also sell longer-term bills and
charge lenders more for tapping its funds.  
 The rupiah has risen 12 percent against the dollar in the
past year, the biggest gainer in Asia, as investors poured money
into an economy where the  benchmark interest rate  is 6.5
percent, compared with Japan’s 0.1 percent. South Korea said
June 13 it will tighten rules on currency derivatives to reduce
volatility in capital flows and the won, and Taiwan, Brazil,
Colombia and Russia have stepped up rules on capital flows.  
 “Some actions that try to discipline the flow-in of hot
money may be a reasonable policy approach,” World Bank
President  Robert Zoellick  said in an interview late June 16 in
New York. “In a time of policy turmoil like this, people are
going to be experimenting with different things. It’s not a
silver bullet but it doesn’t surprise me that people are trying
them and they may help at the margin.”  
 Borrowing Costs  
 Bank Indonesia will widen the “corridor” of its overnight
interest rate to a range of 5.5 percent to 7.5 percent, the
central bank said. The new range, effective June 17, is 1
percentage point above and below the  benchmark interest rate ,
from half a percentage point previously.  
 That boosts the cost of borrowing from the central bank to
as much as 7.5 percent, and reduces returns from investing in
central bank bills to as little as 5.5 percent. The range marks
the rate for the standing lending facility on the high end and
the standing deposit facility on the lower end.  
 The central bank will issue 12-month bills starting
September, and nine-month bills in August, said Nasution, who is
also the acting governor.  Bank Indonesia  currently sells one-,
three- and six-month bills and starting from July 7, buyers
won’t be allowed to sell any of the bills for at least a month,
except to the central bank, according to the new rules.  
 Capital Controls  
 The “measures will go some ways in smoothing capital flows
into and out of the country, chiefly by encouraging flows into
longer-term central bank notes,” said  Wellian Wiranto , a
Singapore-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. They may also
direct flows to other assets in the country, such as government
bonds, corporate bonds and equities, he said.  
 The measures highlight concerns that excessive capital
flows may destabilize Asia’s financial  markets  and economic
recovery. The region should increasingly consider capital
controls in their “policy toolkit” to manage inflows that are
fueling inflation and creating asset bubbles, the United Nations
Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific said
last month.  
 Demand for higher-yielding assets in Asia, which is leading
the global rebound from last year’s slump, has stoked gains in
Indonesia’s rupiah and stock market.  
 The country avoided joining neighboring Singapore, Malaysia
and Thailand in sliding into a recession last year as it’s less
reliant on exports, while the re-election of President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  to a second term last year boosted confidence
in an economy that had to seek an International Monetary Fund
bailout during the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis.  
 Stock Bubble  
 Indonesia’s benchmark  stock index has risen 13 percent this
year and the rupiah climbed 2.5 percent against the dollar. The
currency slid 0.2 percent to 9,163 per dollar as of 10:50 a.m.
in Jakarta, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Indonesia’s stocks are in a bubble and officials are
prepared to put controls on capital inflows if needed to
maintain financial stability,  Perry Warjiyo , the head of the
central bank’s economic research and monetary policy division,
said in April.  
 Still, yesterday’s measures “are not capital controls,”
Nasution said. They are meant to “support economic stability”
and help the central bank “improve the effectiveness of
monetary policy transmission, strengthen the financial stability
and boost financial deepening,” he said.  
 Foreign Holdings  
 Foreign holdings of Indonesia’s one-month bills stood at 33
trillion rupiah ($3.6 billion), or 12 percent of the total 270
trillion rupiah of Bank Indonesia bills as of June 11, Nasution
said. He didn’t give any comparative figures. Foreign holdings
of the short-term bills fell to 36 trillion rupiah in May from
83 trillion rupiah at the end of April, according to Standard
Chartered Plc.  
 Foreign holdings of Indonesian bonds rose to 149.3 trillion
rupiah as of June 15 from 144.1 trillion rupiah at the end of
May, according to data from Indonesia’s debt management office.  
 “Indonesia is not alone in trying to curb volatility of
capital flows, without having to resort to more draconian
measures that would have posed risks to the country’s long-term
appeal,” said Wiranto of HSBC. “All in all, we remain positive
on Indonesia’s attractive economic fundamentals.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aloysius Unditu  in Jakarta at 
 aunditu@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bank Indonesia Senior Deputy Governor Darmin Nasution speaks during a news conference in Jakarta. Photographer: Dimas Ardian/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Bank Indonesia stands in Jakarta, Indonesia. Photographer: Dimas Ardian/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
