-- Bank Stress-Test Publication May Be Misinterpreted, German BdB Lobby Says
-- Tony Czuczka
-- 2010-06-16T13:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/bank-stress-test-publication-may-be-misinterpreted-german-bdb-lobby-says.html

          
          
             Publishing stress tests risks
“misinterpretation” by financial markets, said Germany’s BdB
banking association, which represents more than 220 private
financial firms including  Deutsche Bank AG  and Commerzbank AG.  
 “In Germany, it’s not legally possible to publish the
results of the stress test,” a Berlin-based spokesman for BdB,
who declined to be identified citing the group’s policy, said by
telephone today. “Even if lawmakers changed the rules, it begs
the question whether it would make sense because of possible
misinterpretation.”  
 The Bank of Spain plans to publish the results of the
stress tests carried out at the nation’s lenders, Governor
 Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez  said in a speech today. The
central bank aims to make the findings public to provide
financial markets with full knowledge of the situation of the
Spanish banking system, Fernandez Ordonez said.  
 Deutsche Bank Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  said
last week that publishing stress tests would be “very, very
dangerous” if mechanisms to support European banks weren’t in
place beforehand. “In principle” he’s in favor of publishing
the stress tests for European banks, Ackermann said.  
 Germany may be willing to publish the results of stress
tests, a government official said yesterday. One option would be
to publish the results in a coordinated move or individually to
help eliminate market speculation about problems in certain
sectors, said the official, who declined to be identified.  
 “The German government and EU Commission must follow
Spain’s approach to publish the stress test results,”  Gerhard Schick , finance spokesman for the opposition Green party, said
in an e-mailed statement. “The reason for the German secretive
manner is very simple: The glaring undercapitalization of German
banks in particular is a problem that’s causing concern and as a
result uneasiness.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        