-- Bank of Canada May Discuss Replacement for Duguay at Board Meeting Today
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-06-16T17:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-16/bank-of-canada-may-discuss-replacement-for-duguay-at-board-meeting-today.html

          
          
             The Bank of Canada’s board of
outside directors is meeting today in Charlottetown, Prince
Edward Island, and may discuss a replacement for retiring Deputy
Governor  Pierre Duguay .  
 The meetings, which include Governor  Mark Carney , began
yesterday and end around noon tomorrow, bank spokeswoman  Jill Vardy  said in a telephone interview. Duguay retires July 29, and
the board  met  six times last year, suggesting it’s the
directors’ last chance to approve a replacement before he
leaves.  
 “Usually you know who it is decently in advance of the
person leaving,” said  Finn Poschmann , vice president for
research at the C.D. Howe Institute in Toronto, in a telephone
interview. “They do need continuity.”  
 The 12 outside directors  manage  the bank’s corporate
operations, such as human resources and administration policies.
This week’s meetings in Charlottetown are the one session per
year held outside the bank’s Ottawa headquarters, Vardy said.
The trip also includes a public speech by Carney and a private
dinner with local business leaders.  
 “I would expect a decision would be taken in the near
future and that would be communicated at the appropriate time,”
Carney told reporters after his speech today. “The formal part
of the board meeting hasn’t happened yet so I don’t want to
speak for the board before any decision has been made.”  
 Internal Candidate  
 The bank said March 10 that Duguay’s replacement will be an
internal candidate. “The institution is strong. That’s why we
focused the search for the person to fill that seat
internally,” Carney said today.  
 “Pierre Duguay served the bank and our country with
distinction for more than 35 years,” Carney said. “We will
miss his contribution.”  
 Once Duguay’s replacement is made, the entire panel that
sets interest rates at the bank will have changed since Carney
was named to replace  David Dodge  as governor in October 2007.
The group will decide how fast and how far to raise the
 benchmark lending rate  after a June 1 decision to lift it to 0.5
percent from a record low 0.25 percent.  
 The panel sets rates by consensus and doesn’t publish
individual voting records.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        